0 (0s):
Get a new Apple Card account by July 25th and get 10% back on App Store purchases for your first six months up to $100 daily cash terms apply. You can earn on games like Candy Crush Saga and Roblox subscriptions like Apple TV plus in-app purchases and all the good stuff. Apply now in the Wallet app on iPhone. Subject to credit approval. 10% daily cash earned on up to a maximum of $1,000 in qualifying purchases is valid only for the first 180 days. For new Apple Card accounts open between July 11th and July 25th to make a qualifying purchase. Your new Apple card must be said as the default payment method for the Apple ID. Associated with the Apple account and the App store. You must have a zero balance on all digital Apple accounts associated with the Apple id. Visit apple.co/app store for more important offer details.

1 (34s):
From WB, e z Chicago. It's This American Life. I'm Ira Glass. The story that we bring you today is a kind of classic mystery story, but a classic mystery of a very particular kind. It's a real life Hardy boy story or maybe an episode of Scooby-Doo. There's an old abandoned house. Some kids stumble upon it, they decide to break in and then at that point they kind of hit the jackpot. Kid wise, the place is filled, and I mean filled with fascinating stuff. It's also creepy and mysterious and there are all kinds of tantalizing clues about what happened there, which they decide to uncover and which ends up taking years, decades. Actually, we are devoting our entire show today to this one story.

1 (1m 15s):
The house near Loon Lake. You first broadcast this show in 2001. If you're in your car right now as you hear this, I hope you have a long drive ahead of you so you can stay tuned. If you're at home and it's night, you may consider turning down the lights. Adam Beckman tells the tale.

2 (1m 31s):
It was my brother's idea to go down to the lake. We'd brought an M 80 firecracker and we wanted to detonate it in the shallow water where we used to swim. We were 11 and it was late fall of 1977. We were visiting a place called Freedom New Hampshire, a small town of a few hundred people just across the border from Maine. My dad had volunteered to do some maintenance work at a summer camp. I'd once gone to my brother Kenny, best friend. Ian and I went along. We'd been inseparable growing up, but now Kenny had started hanging out with an older crowd and I'd been seeing less and less of Ian since I'd just transferred to a new school. I was in a funk about losing touch with Kenny and Ian. And so for me, the stakes for the weekend were a little higher than usual.

2 (2m 15s):
In normal times, we like to go shoplifting or set things on fire. At Halloween, we've taken cans of WD 40 and gone from door to door, spraying it in the mouths of jacko lanterns till flames burst out their eyes and they blew up in balls of fire. This is my brother Kenny. He's now 37 and he's a scientist.

4 (2m 33s):
I think Ian's mom used to worry a little bit about Ian spending too much time with us or being brought under our bad influence, cuz I think we taught Ian about, you know, throwing wood chips at cars. And we taught Ian about unfolding paper clips so that you could shoot them at people and so on.

2 (2m 54s):
So we were wandering around looking for something to do, and we saw the house. It was gray weathered and leaning precariously. At one end. The windows were boarded up from the outside. Two old cars, probably from the thirties sat in the yard. One of them had a tree growing up through a hole where the engine had been at the back of the house. We found a window that was broken and I remember peering in into near darkness.

5 (3m 18s):
I remember it was kind of a, a dare kind of thing.

2 (3m 22s):
That's my friend Ian.

5 (3m 23s):
It was one of these things where we just would say, you know, I'd go in that house, wouldn't you? And you would say, yeah, I have no problem going in that house. And Kenny would say, yeah, that house looks fine. And none of us really wanted to go in house cuz we're all scared. But we did.

2 (3m 41s):
Ian was the skinniest. So it was decided that he should go in first. He slid sideways through the broken pans so he wouldn't get cut and disappeared. After maybe 10 seconds, he scrambled back out, clutching a newspaper. It was brown, and I remember it crumbled in our hands. The headlines had something about Nazis invading. That was all we needed. One by one we climbed into the house. It was dark inside. The only light came in through little cracks between the boards that covered the windows. The floor felt soft underfoot. And as my eyes adjusted, I could see that it was covered with a layer of filthy clothes. Junk was everywhere. Actually, we couldn't walk around on the floor because you couldn't see the floor in most places.

5 (4m 24s):
It was just jammed with more stuff than you could live with. Cause I remember there were a couple of rooms you, you, you couldn't go into for, for how much stuff was jammed in there.

2 (4m 33s):
I was careful to remember how we got in, in case we had to find our way out in a hurry. We were all very quiet. We'd seen enough horror movies to know that joking around could get us into trouble. Here's Ian.

5 (4m 44s):
We did not spread out. We stuck probably almost hip to hip, and our backs were glued to each other. And Ken was maybe looking the other way and his back was kind, you know, so we were sort of like this little star of, of people walking into the house. And Kenny is like one of like the worst people to go into a situation like that with. Why do you say that? Because he's, he's very jittery and he always will kind of mumble about maybe what the worst thing might be, might next happen. You know, like, you know, like I, I, I bet somebody's gonna come outta that closet. You know,

2 (5m 27s):
Some rooms were in total disarray with things stre about, like they'd been rummaged through. But then there were these little areas where things were untouched in the kitchen. Dishes were stacked on open shelves, pots and pans, cluttered the sink and the pantry was stocked with canned food. I picked up a container of Hershey's syrup and it felt heavy. A salt and pepper shaker sat on the kitchen table. The main sense I had was of disaster. This is my brother Kenny. As if people

4 (5m 57s):
Had been kind of toodling along in their everyday lives and something terrible had happened, something catastrophic had happened to the people in the house. So catastrophic that no care had been put in arranging or sorting or editing any of the contents of their lives. And there was a feeling as we sat there that this time capsule hadn't been opened in 50 years.

2 (6m 31s):
Hanging in the kitchen was one of those calendars they give out at gas stations. It was dated December, 1938. In the bedroom was a pile of shoes, maybe 30 high, that had fused into one mass on a nightstand. I found a pair of eyeglasses folded on top of a man's wallet, and I slipped them both into my jacket pocket. In another room was a bureau and tucked in the mirror frame was an invitation to a dance at the town hall. Pin to it was a rose that was completely withered. Kenny opened the closet door next to the dresser and hanging. There was a rotting white dress. We began to fabricate a little scene. A teenage daughter returns late from a dance with a rose.

2 (7m 12s):
She pins it to the mirror and hangs her dress in the closet, and then something horrible happens. And that's when time stopped outside, squinting in the bright daylight. We raced back through town. Kenny and Ian were like kids coming off a rollercoaster. But I had this sense of doom about the whole thing. I'd heard about the King Tut exhibit that was tour the country. I wondered if we'd be cursed like the guys who'd found King Tut's tomb. Also, I had someone's wallet in my pocket. I took it out and showed Kenny and Ian. Inside was a bright green $1 bill dated 1935, and a driver's license for a man named Virgil Nason.

2 (8m 4s):
That night, while our dad drove us home, I put on the eyeglasses I'd found to make Kenny and Ian laugh. But then I felt bad about the joke. I didn't know anyone who died before. And now I was pretty sure I was carrying the wallet of a dead man. The next day my brother would be going back to his high school buddies and my best friend would be going back to our old school. I'd have to face the kids at my new school where I hadn't made any friends. And It seemed like everyone was named Doug and played lacrosse. I'd always been a moody kid, but it was an unfocused sort of moodiness. Now that all this was happening in my life, my gloominess took on a new focus. I brooded about the nascent house. My homeroom teacher had been an instructor for Outward Bound throughout the year.

2 (8m 47s):
He made us go solo in the woods around the school. I spent hours sitting out there alone with my journal and a flashlight brooding. The winter passed, and the only curse I suffered was grade seven. That spring, my parents went back to do their volunteer stint at the camp. This time I brought a new friend named David. I knew it would impress him. We got up early and packed flashlights in our book bags. I think we even brought a canteen of water. It was raining as we climbed through the window of the house. Nothing looked like it had changed over the winter.

2 (9m 27s):
And just like the first time I had this acute feeling of being watched as we moved from room to room, touching things, opening up drawers, climbing up into the attic, David felt it too.

6 (9m 37s):
All their personal belongings were right there. So they felt so close. And I remember walking through some of these dark rooms

3 (9m 47s):
Looking

6 (9m 48s):
Around, you know, but, you know, being afraid of perhaps, you know, uncovering something, some evil scene or discovering that they were there, discovering that they had died there.

5 (10m 4s):
I remember thinking that we were gonna find a, a body in a closet at any moment. I mean, I remember there were some, some closets and cupboards that we just flat out didn't want to open or, or even open up the, the oven. You know, you're just afraid that you might find something that you just didn't want to see.

3 (10m 28s):
Do

2 (10m 28s):
You remember the basement?

6 (10m 31s):
I don't remember the, no, I don't remember the basement.

4 (10m 34s):
Did we ever go down? I we did go down into the basement eventually, didn't we?

5 (10m 38s):
And I, I still don't remember the basement. Did you go down the ba You didn't go in the basement.

2 (10m 42s):
We never went into the basement. Then. Here's why. The door to it had been blocked shut by a couch. That was propped on its end as if someone wanted to keep something down there from getting out.

6 (10m 59s):
I remember uncovering finding a small doll whose face had been burned off. And I remember being terrified of that thinking. This must have been some scene of some horrible ritual.

2 (11m 16s):
David has a really strong memory of a doll with its face burned off. Do you remember that? Oh

4 (11m 21s):
Yeah, absolutely. That was scary. The, the minute you mention it, I've got, I've got the image of it. I mean, there's something so creepy about a doll that's kind of been mangled.

6 (11m 36s):
I remember discovering, you know, that there was these sort of smeared theses areas, you know, or smeared. There was either it was animal or human, or we couldn't figure that out.

4 (11m 53s):
The, the, the poop on the bed. That was scary too. I mean, it made you wonder, you know, what the hell is going on in here? I think at the time we thought, oh gee, maybe people were crashing out here. So, you know, that fit into a whole story about, oh, you know, some, some fugitive on the lamb from justice who's hiding out in a abandoned house, or the town alcoholic who used to crash out there after a binge or something like that.

5 (12m 22s):
The strange part is, do people just pick up and walk out a front door one day and leave letters that are incredibly personal? I mean, these, these were important artifacts of their family. and if they did leave for some legitimate reason, like you move, you pack up, you move, you don't leave things like a wallet with money in it, or, or your address book that has the birthday is written in it of your family members. You know, why, why do you, why do you leave? Things like that. How could you,

4 (13m 7s):
We had a mission. The mission was to find out as much as we could about the family who had lived there. And all over the place were letters and pieces of paper. And each one was a potential clue. So, you know, we sat down in this dingy, kind of musky house and we started to read

2 (13m 26s):
November 29th, 1933. Dear Mr. Nas, I have checked up your case quite thoroughly and find that you have already had as much, if not more work than most people. I find also that you are working a car in a truck and that your son has a car and a truck. Also, that your team is working, hauling, cut lumber. So long as a man has anything at all, he asked to use it as we have to give work to the people who have nothing at all under these circumstances. He did not qualify for work at this time. Signed the office of the County Supervisor of Relief. Dear mama, I'm staying over tonight and go to the dance Rt and I have had a fight. He thinks I'm going out with Eddie. I may, I don't know.

2 (14m 7s):
I don't want him to know where I am, so don't tell him. Come over to the dance and bring my shoes. The black spike once now come over Mama. And don't be mad. Don't even tell PT now, mama. Please don't be mad at me. Mr. Jackson is ugly today. Be sure you get dad to come to the dance. There's a ballgame tonight. Over the next two years, I returned to the nascent house four times in all. And each time I came back with more clues about what happened. I read these letters over and over trying to decode them, convinced that the answer about the family's downfall was hidden in some seemingly trivial comment or offhand reference.

2 (14m 52s):
This note is written on school paper by a young girl who was probably my age at the time. Dear Clyde, I wanted a boyfriend, so I thought I would write to you, darling. There's no other boy around here that interests me as you do. Clyde darling, call me up. Clyde Darling, when I saw you last night over at Pinks, I thought I would go crazy because I love you. So, from your girlfriend, ed,

6 (15m 22s):
We had to take things that could help us unravel the puzzle. I mean, I, I don't think we even thought of it being private property at, at the start because it was just abandoned and no one cared about it.

2 (15m 39s):
We read notes from doctors and found bills from creditors. We scanned library past due notices and studied postmarks and came up with lots of ideas about why the place had been left.

4 (15m 50s):
We started to think, gee, maybe these people had their house foreclosed and were thrown out by bankers because it does seem as if somebody might have been shut out of the house with all of the, you know, all of the objects inside.

5 (16m 3s):
One of my favorite theories was that, you know, the Father died at maybe the same time that the sons had to go to war. Cuz we're looking at papers that talk about war, starting and thinking about how a couple of events with an old father and a couple of sons could very quickly finish a family.

4 (16m 26s):
I remember finding information about betting. I think we saw, I think they were tickets or a schedule of a dog track, or a horse racing track. And the story we made up was, oh, these people had lost all their money gambling.

2 (16m 46s):
We needed to find someone who could give us some answers. A person who knew the family or a distant relative freedom's a small town. Someone must have known what had happened. But when we'd go ask down at the general store or the post office people gave us the cold shoulder. This confirmed to us that they were part of the conspiracy to bring this family down, or at least part of the coverup. In retrospect, I realized the adults may have brushed us off because we were 12 years old. It was David who found the breakthrough clue a matchbook matches intact. Soiled, but legible. It said, stop and shop at nascent Grocery Freedom side.

2 (17m 28s):
Near Effingham False bridge. We rode over and ditched our bikes under the bridge. There were two or three houses on either side, all big old Victorian buildings, but it was obvious to us which one was the nascent grocery. There were a couple of ancient gas pumps outside and a rusting moxy soda sign. A rope held the door closed, but we were able to squeeze through. The first thing I saw when we went through the door were the boxes of cornflakes that lined the walls. The nascent grocery was a completely intact, perfectly preserved store from the 1960s with products still on the shelves by the cash register. There were magazine racks and rows of candy. There were glass countertops displaying fishing gear and stacks of canned vegetables, corn and green beans.

2 (18m 13s):
Some of the cans had exploded from years of heating and freezing, which we thought was cool. Upstairs, there were a few rooms that must have been an apartment.

4 (18m 21s):
Being in a store all of the sudden reminded us, gee, you know, were breaking and entering in a place that's got, you know, candy.

2 (18m 30s):
There was a small safe under the counter, and when I turned the handle, the door swung open. Inside I found four silver dollars and three Kennedy half dollars. I also found a $5 gold coin from 1892. I took the coins. I spent the eighth grade kind of detached from school. I'd stare out the window at the falling snow and think about the drifts that must have been blowing through cracks in the house where I'd lie awake at night and imagine how still and cold it would be in there. Instead of doing homework, I spent a lot of time reading through my box of nascent letters, drawing up a family tree.

2 (19m 11s):
From the clues we'd found every reference to New Hampshire became relevant to the mystery. I'd sit at breakfast and stare at a tin of maple syrup and think about the nascent. I was pretty sure that if there was some way I could support a family researching abandoned houses, that it would be my vocation in life. I was 13 years old and I had a crush on a house. I hadn't told my parents much about it. I was afraid they'd shut us down over fears we'd get hurt or arrested. But I remember feeling that I wanted a grownup to see it, to confirm that we hadn't imagined the whole thing.

2 (19m 53s):
So I started to tell my mother about it, but I could see I wasn't getting it across how amazing it was. So that spring, I led my mother across the field of weeds and watched as she climbed through the window of the house.

7 (20m 6s):
I was a little appalled, more than appalled. When I went inside. It was much more, a much greater disaster than I had imagined. Also, much greater mystery than I had imagined, and in many ways, much more interesting. For that reason,

2 (20m 25s):
My mom proved to be quite a sleuth. She drove me to the town cemetery where we found plot after plot of nascent graves. There was Ivan Nas died, 1943. Bertha died, 1968. Virgil, whose dollar bill and driver's license I had died in 1974. And Jesse, who died in 1969. There was another Jesse William who had a birthdate, but there was no date of death. So our theories of a car carrying the whole family into a ravine of the war of sudden plague of the whole town rising up against the nations and massacring them. These no longer made sense. The whatever had driven the family from its home hadn't been sudden. The circumstances were more complicated than anything I'd imagined.

2 (21m 9s):
That winter, I had my first nightmare. I was in the house rummaging through things, and the nations were there in the walls watching me, and they weren't friendly. The next year I didn't go to New Hampshire, I'd started high school and was finally making friends. There was less brooding in my life. And what brooding was left had to do with girls. My mother went up on the semi-annual work weekend at the summer camp, and she brought my sister along. When they returned, they told me a story that made my blood run cold. Tell

8 (21m 48s):
Me about the time that you went up with Claire. What happened?

7 (21m 51s):
That was a big mistake. I think we were both very embarrassed. We were embarrassed. We were both very embarrassed.

8 (21m 59s):
Yeah. Yeah. I felt I was angry.

7 (22m 2s):
You were

8 (22m 2s):
Angry. I was.

7 (22m 5s):
No, we blew it. We blew it, sort of in a sense.

2 (22m 8s):
What happened was this. My mother had brought my sister into the house and they'd seen a child's crib rotting away in the attic, and they decided to take it. So they drove my family's bright orange Volvo station wagon up in front and went in to get the crib.

7 (22m 23s):
There was no way one could bring that crib down the stairs. And finally I found a piece of rope somewhere tied it up and we lowered it down the window.

8 (22m 35s):
Outside the window? Yeah. Outside the window of the house. Yeah.

7 (22m 41s):
Right. And that's when a boy walked by and saw it. We saw him see it. We saw him see it, and we realized Uhuh

2 (22m 55s):
The boy returned with two women who told my mother and sister, they had no right being in the house. My mom argued asking them why if someone somewhere had an interest in the property, they were letting it rot. The woman said it was none of her business and that she'd better leave. I felt betrayed. The scene my mother had described, the orange car, the dangling crib, the confrontation in the middle of the road. People in freedom had a word for greedy city folk from Massachusetts and elsewhere who came to town plundering for antiques. They called them mass holes. That's what we'd become. And I felt sick about it. I collected all the objects and letters I'd found and put them in a small wooden fish tackle box I'd found in the nascent grocery store.

2 (23m 37s):
I tucked the box up in our attic and I never went in the nascent house again. Three years later, I took a trip through New England with Ian and we decided to take a detour to freedom. I stopped the car where I thought the house stood. Ian remembered it being further along. So we parked and walked up and down the road, but the house was gone. All that remained was an outline of the foundation in the dirt. We drove to the bridge to see if the store was there, but it wasn't. We couldn't tell if the buildings had been torn down or if they'd burned, but they were gone. As was, I thought, any answer I'd ever get as to why they'd been left in the first place. I was having the nightmare regularly.

2 (24m 17s):
Now, each time it was the same. I was in the nascent house or some version of it, but now unde nations were leaving their hiding places in the walls and attacking me. It was a terrifying dream. And I had it many times over the next 20 years.

8 (24m 47s):
Okay, so there's plenty in here.

2 (24m 50s):
This summer I went to visit my mother and looked through the box of things I'd saved from the nascent house. All the years I'd spent away from home, she'd kept the box carefully labeled and stored through four moves

7 (25m 0s):
There.

9 (25m 3s):
Yeah, I remember that. You see?

10 (25m 6s):
Yes. The wooden box. You see, that's the wooden box that I remember. And I think it has things in it should, you've got a good

2 (25m 12s):
Memory. The box was, as I'd left it, a little makeup case with powder still inside the eyeglasses. Some children's records and the coins, photographs of the family, the letters. And there were newspapers right on top was the one. Ian found that very first day.

7 (25m 26s):
I don't know when. This newspaper is very old. Boston, Sunday Globe. Look at that. After marching, Jesus, after marching into the rest of Czechoslovakia in March, Hitler Chamberlain exchanged speeches. Nazi stayed there and Chamberlain said he mustn't do it again. April 16th, 1939. And my, yeah, my grandparents were already in, in exile because of this taking of Czechoslovakia. Hmm.

2 (26m 5s):
When my great grandparents fled their home in Czechoslovakia, they'd left furniture, paintings, letters all very suddenly and never returned. My mother tells me that all those things probably still exist somewhere. With that in mind, she couldn't bear to see the nace and things rotting away like they had.

7 (26m 22s):
And here's a spoon. It's all very melancholy, all these little remnants. Why is

8 (26m 31s):
It melancholy?

7 (26m 34s):
The abandonment? The abandonment is melancholy. You know, I, in a way, it is worse than throwing away. Much worse. I can understand one family being obliged to flee or run or abandon, but that nobody else cared. That it was so overwhelmingly abandoned by everybody, that nobody had cared to solve something, to resolve something that was very offensive to me. That was, you know, it was like leaving a corpse. You don't leave corpses. And that's a little bit the feeling that I had, that here was a carcass. A carcass of a, of a, of, of a house, of a life, of a private entity.

7 (27m 15s):
Nobody cared to pick it up and give it a proper burial. Ariel, I thought that it was important that somebody should care. That somehow somebody was leaning over these words, you know, reading them, unfolding these letters that somebody had bothered to write. And it really didn't matter that it was an 11 year old boy who cared. Objects have lives, they, they are witness to things and these objects were like that.

7 (27m 57s):
So I was in a way glad that you were listening.

2 (28m 7s):
There was one letter in particular that my mother and I couldn't get out of our heads. It was different from the others. And I'd kept it separate in a plastic Ziploc bag. It was mildewed and barely legible.

7 (28m 19s):
April 18th, 1940. Laconia Hospital. My darling excuse writing, it's the best I can manage. They brought me to the hospital here Tuesday night at eight 30. The baby was born prematurely at three yesterday afternoon. I am writing to you, writing for you. Before I name him. What are we going to do? I'm nearly crazy. Did you get my telegram?

7 (28m 60s):
Be sure to bring the $20 and 50 cents. I am weak and can't write more. Hurry. I may die. But I love you more than ever. I registered here as your wife. I knew it would be better with all my heart and love. Come quick. Underlined what? 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8. I, you know, I can't hardly stand it. I can hardly stand it. I've thought about her so often.

7 (29m 42s):
I've I've worried about her. I've worried about that kid. I never forgotten these.

8 (29m 54s):
Yeah, I remember finding that.

2 (29m 58s):
I think you explained to me what it was about. I don't, I don't think I understood.

8 (30m 1s):
Yeah.

2 (30m 11s):
Back home in New York, I started doing research on the internet, working off the list of nascent names I'd found in the cemetery. Eventually I found this posting at a genealogy website, nations of Freedom, New Hampshire, looking for relatives of Jesse Nason and his wife Bertha. Any info from their kids or grandkids and pictures would be awesome. They are my great great grandparents. The person who'd written it is named Samantha Thurston. I sent her an email confessing everything and this is what she wrote back. Hello Adam. I'm very interested in what you found and almost wish you had taken all that you found. Jessie and Bertha are my great great grandparents. I don't know a lot about them, but they did have a store in Freedom, New Hampshire, and were well-known.

2 (30m 54s):
We exchanged a few more emails and made plans to meet Samantha said the immediate family either didn't have many answers or didn't want to talk. Her last email to me included this cryptic post script about the nascent. They might not be what you'd expect. They are a rough crowd. The line is followed with three exclamation points

1 (31m 19s):
Coming up. One of the rough crowd meets one of those meddling kids in a minute. From Chicago Bubble Radio when our program continues.

11 (31m 29s):
Hey, it's Ben Truman, editor-in-chief of Wirecutter. We put together the Ultimate Moving Guide and I wanted to find out a few of our writers' favorite tips.

12 (31m 37s):
When you're first moving into your home, make sure that you change the ties and your smoke detector.

13 (31m 41s):
Buy a mattress bag. You can carry a mattress more easily cuz the handles are built in and it's going to protect your mattress from the truck and the street. Make

14 (31m 48s):
Sure you have towels on hand. You don't wanna end up taking a shower and using a dirty sock to dry off. Yeah,

11 (31m 54s):
If you're getting ready to move, let Wirecutter help you make a plan at ny times.com/moving.

1 (32m 1s):
It's This American Life Ira glass. We're devoting our entire show today to just one story, A real life mystery. The house near Goon Lake. We first broadcast today's show in 2001. Adam Beckman resumes his tale.

2 (32m 15s):
In August, I drive north to New Hampshire to meet with Samantha Thurston, the woman from the internet, and see if I can find someone to talk to me about the nascent. I've brought the box of nascent stuff with me. It's small, about a foot square inside her family Letters, the coins I took from the grocery store, the can of Hershey's syrup from Nathan's kitchen. I'm hoping to give it to someone who cares about this stuff. If not, I plan to bury it on the spot where the house stood at the turnoff. From Route 25, I take a short bypass called Nascent Road. On the way into town, I stopped to get directions from a woman working in her front yard. She's wearing a sweatshirt that says Nascent Landscaping. Samantha had told me that the Nass either didn't know what had happened to the house or didn't want to talk.

2 (32m 59s):
She also said that everyone would know I was in town. It's hard not to feel a little paranoid here. I am an outsider from New York City, come to town with details about the past. Digging around for more details. I'm apprehensive about what kind of reception I'll get. I arrive in Freedom August 2nd and a parade is marching through the center of town. It's Old Home Week, the Annual Homecoming Festival. An event created by the governor to combat problems of abandoned homes and farms in New Hampshire all the way back in 1898 after the Civil War, young people had left the state in droves for better land and opportunities they'd noticed elsewhere.

2 (33m 45s):
I'd last visited in the 1970s. And a few things have changed since the town's only store has been replaced with a shop for tourists, selling tea doilies, hand dipped candles and beanie babies. Farming is pretty much dead and city people have moved in because they love how charming it is. The place is so self-consciously quaint that you feel like you're on a movie set about a small town tidy with just enough dilapidation around the edges to be rustic. The parade moves past the old town hall. The one shop across the town's only intersection to the cemetery then turns around for another pass.

2 (34m 26s):
The theme for the parade this year is We are Freedom. When I marched in the parade as a kid, the theme was freedom of the press. I dressed as a radio reporter and pretended to interview the spectators. An irony, so bizarre, I don't really know what else to say about it. That afternoon, I check into the only place to stay in town, a bed and breakfast called the Freedom House. I'd been concerned that some distant relative of the Nass might own it. Part of the rough crowd. I shouldn't have worried the owners of New Yorker.

2 (35m 7s):
There's Princess Dye memorabilia in the library and my room's painted bright pink.

15 (35m 12s):
In fact, it's been called the ULA LA room. I've had some people from Paris here came in and said Ula la. But anyway,

2 (35m 18s):
Patrick Mely is part of the new breed and freedom in the five years he's lived here. He's had the B and B meticulously restored. Yes, Rachel Antique toiletries and bottles of talcum powder line, the shelves of the washroom on a hallway table. Silk gloves, rest on top of a purse next to a pair of opera glasses. His things are just like the stuff in my box of nascent knickknacks. Only better quality. Standing there with a dirty little wooden box under my arm. I feel sort of pathetic and when Patrick starts talking about how people can create instant ancestors out of old junk, it doesn't make me feel any better.

15 (35m 51s):
I've pieced together histories through photos we've, we've come up with photographs. I have a number of instant ancestors in this house that I've kind of to create the ambience. And you know, in a a few instances, I've tried to trace whatever I could about them.

2 (36m 5s):
Patrick's learned a lot about the history of the town. So I asked him about the nascent house. He doesn't know anything about it, but he does say that a nascent cousin named Rachel Mulvey once owned this very building and that she lived here and died here,

15 (36m 19s):
I believe. I think that Rachel's still in the house. I've had a few guests tell me they've heard someone walking on the second floor. So, you know, I don't know that you'll hear it, but I mean I've, I've heard people down in the end rooms. I usually don't tell them, but you know, she was a little old lady. So, you know, you might hear a little like slipper feet. And we've had a few things with lights. You know, light bulbs suddenly breaking.

2 (36m 50s):
I have a couple of days to kill before my meeting with Samantha. And at breakfast, Patrick suggests I talk to a few locals who might have known the nascent family. The first one on his list lives right across the street.

16 (37m 2s):
Well, my name is Gail Holmgren Bickford. I came here at the age of six months with my parents and have spent most of my summers here. What else would you like to know?

2 (37m 15s):
Do you, do you remember, do you remember the nascent family? Of course,

16 (37m 19s):
They were scruffy little kids. They were always kind of disheveled and half dressed and needing to be washed. and they, they were a real, what do you call it? From the, you know, the ones who went across in the covered wagons and who never got to school and really, well, I guess maybe they did go to school, but I think they went barefoot. They were sort of scary to go by there if we walked to the beach. You know, you went pretty fast to get by that house. Why?

16 (37m 59s):
I don't know exactly. I think the fireman burned it down for a practice session.

2 (38m 15s):
What was their status in the town? Were they, were they ostracized?

16 (38m 18s):
I know, I don't know anything about that. And I don't know the whole family set up, but there, one of them was into race horses and made quite a lot of money, I think in race sourcing.

2 (38m 36s):
I ask Gail if she thinks financial hardship brought the family down, but she can't confirm anything

16 (38m 41s):
About 1940 something. They built a bypass so that the main Route 25 did not go through town anymore. And then the town began to die out. There was no reason to come to town. And then the stores lost business and they began to close up one by one. I have no idea whether that's what hit that family, but there may be somebody around who knows Hm.

17 (39m 13s):
Nation. So brought up with him.

2 (39m 19s):
Carol Chase was the fire chief in freedom. About the time the house was burned. I find him sitting on his porch on a road outside of town. He's 92 years old and heart of hearing, but he does remember the fire.

17 (39m 31s):
We just lit it with a match. Newspaper and a match.

2 (39m 38s):
Was the house empty or was it full of stuff?

17 (39m 41s):
Nobody lived there.

18 (39m 44s):
Why did you start a fire?

17 (39m 47s):
Why? Yeah. Well, they wanted it burnt.

18 (39m 53s):
Who wanted, who wanted it burnt

17 (39m 55s):
The people who owned it. That's about all I know about freedom. People want their own business.

2 (40m 8s):
He looks away from me as he says this, and I take the hint later that day I learned he's related to the NASS by marriage. In fact, he's Samantha's grandfather. I spent some time worrying over why he never mentioned this that afternoon. I go to a junk shop on the outskirts of town, discarded appliances, clothing, and a surprising number of old family photos. The owner John Woodard salvages most of this stuff from traumatic moments in people's lives, a divorce or a death, or when they move from a house to a retirement home.

2 (40m 48s):
As it turns out, back in the mid seventies, he got a call about the nascent house.

19 (40m 52s):
They were getting ready to knock down that house. And a guy called me up and he said, gee, you oughta come over. He said, there's boxes and boxes of old whiskey bottles with paper labels and all this stuff in there. You know, I got oh 10 or 12 boxes, you know, I've sold them over the years.

17 (41m 9s):
Do

2 (41m 9s):
You remember if there's anything in here that you got from the house? The na house in the house?

19 (41m 13s):
I if I still got some that have labels.

17 (41m 18s):
Yeah.

19 (41m 20s):
One more spot. Let's check down here.

2 (41m 21s):
John walks me out past isles of discarded family possessions to a barn filled with hundreds of bottles.

19 (41m 28s):
Yeah. See like something like this Pickwick ale bottle. Probably from, eh, about 19 19, 19 20, in the twenties,

2 (41m 39s):
I'd taken a Pickwick ga bottle opener from the nascent house and used it all through college. It was the one relic I kept for myself when I packed up the nascent stuff. Do you remember where in the house you found that

19 (41m 48s):
These were upstairs? They're upstairs and some boxes. Course the roof had fallen in on part of it, if you remember. And the upstairs, it was a, it was one of those, you said, Hmm, is it really worth taking a chance? Getting those boxes down from upstairs, you know? But we did, and

2 (42m 7s):
John hands it to me, and most of 'em were all, it's got the same veneer of rust on it that everything in the Nas house had.

19 (42m 12s):
This is $5.

2 (42m 14s):
He gives it to me for free for my project. He says, I'm supposed to meet Samantha, my internet nascent contact at the b and b at one o'clock. And she shows up 15 minutes early, a red pickup truck tears into the lot in a cloud of dust and a tough looking woman in a flower print dress gets out and slams the door. Samantha's young in her twenties. She's made up hair tied back in a bow. But her demeanor's all tomboy.

20 (42m 47s):
Well, I talked to the family yesterday to actually Alan Mason. He's the one that I'm closest to outta the whole family.

2 (42m 55s):
We talk and it's like we've been living in parallel worlds. Samantha's been looking for clues about the family's history for 10 years. She tells me she's been scouring graveyards and reading through public records, trying to construct a family tree. She began her search when she heard rumors that she had Native American ancestry. She decided to find out if she did to get financial aid for college. Before long she'd figured out her grandfather was in fact an illegitimate child of Earnest Mason, one of Bertha and Jesse's kids, although her grandfather was not the person in that letter. My mom had remembered all these years

20 (43m 28s):
And, and they have a lot of hard feelings in the family as it is.

2 (43m 32s):
Samantha's family hearing what she was uncovering wasn't too keen on her research project and didn't cooperate,

20 (43m 37s):
You know? And it was like, go to hell away. I don't wanna talk to you about this. It's none of your business. Well, it is. It's my heritage, it's my history. And

2 (43m 45s):
I, I left my box of stuff from the Nas house upstairs in the Ula la room. I wanted to give it to someone in the family, but I wanted to be sure it would go to someone who care. As we talk, it becomes clear to me how much it would mean to Samantha. So I bring it down and put it on the floor in front of her. Wow.

20 (43m 60s):
How do I get this open? It

2 (44m 1s):
Opens on the

20 (44m 2s):
Link that, oh, neat. Oh my goodness. You even got papers. Oh wow. Yeah.

2 (44m 12s):
That was probably one of the first things we found when we went in the house, was

20 (44m 15s):
That, oh my goodness, ain't that neat? I can't believe this. This is unbelievable. You have no idea what what you've done.

2 (44m 28s):
She opens an envelope with her great, great grandmother's name handwritten on it. She handles it incredibly gently. I watch as she lets the contents fall into her hands. It's a bunch of tiny recipes cut out from a newspaper.

21 (44m 43s):
Hmm. Oh my God.

20 (44m 48s):
And you know what? I never even know him.

21 (44m 52s):
Oh my.

20 (44m 57s):
That's so cool. How am I gonna, goodness. I hope they appreciate it as much. I really do. It's actually a blessing that you had gone into that house during that time period. Because once it fell in, everything was scooped up, thrown in a dump truck and taken to the dump and all them memories, everything that they left behind that should have been divvied up.

20 (45m 38s):
So that could have been passed down was all lost. So it actually was a good thing that you were nosy little boy.

2 (45m 54s):
Samantha didn't know much about why the nascent house had been abandoned, but she told me a man named David Buswell, who lives across the street from where it once stood, might have some answers on the way up to his house. I notice a sign trespassers will be shot. Survivors will be shot twice. David's sitting on his front porch with his friend Mabel Davis.

22 (46m 14s):
How does it happen? You wanna know about the Nass?

23 (46m 18s):
When I was a little boy, when I was about 11 years old, I,

2 (46m 21s):
I was in a summer camp here. Once we get talking, I realize the trespassing sign is David's idea of a joke. It's Sunday afternoon and they're drinking mudslides. Do

23 (46m 30s):
You remember that house?

22 (46m 31s):
Of course I do. Honey. Been in it many times. Oh really?

23 (46m 35s):
When the nations were living there.

22 (46m 37s):
Yeah. Mr. And Mrs. Mason were living near that. And I can see Mrs. Mason now taking out a pan of biscuits. Honest to God. I bet that pan was that big.

2 (46m 48s):
Mabel's arms are spread wide. As she says this, the image is pure Norman Rockwell. And frankly, it's a relief.

23 (47m 0s):
And. what? What were the nations like?

22 (47m 3s):
Well, they were wonderful people. Really. How would you say about Jess? All of his kids worked and worked hard.

2 (47m 14s):
Both Mabel and David knew the Nas and had been in their house. But David, like me, had only been inside after it was abandoned.

24 (47m 22s):
Oh, it was full of treasures. Old palettes, Morris chairs, advertising cans, you know, the place just packed with stuff like that. They were packed rattles. Anyway, they collected everything. Everything.

2 (47m 37s):
Why? Why would they just, why would they just leave

24 (47m 40s):
All that? Don't ask me. Yeah. Just the way they were.

2 (47m 44s):
I would think the grandkids would want nothing

22 (47m 46s):
About it.

2 (47m 47s):
Didn't care about it.

24 (47m 48s):
No, none of them.

23 (47m 49s):
Why not?

24 (47m 51s):
You And I have young people out. They don't care about all things. Today.

2 (47m 55s):
Dave and Mabel tell me that Bertha died in 1968 and Jesse soon after, in 69, and then things fell apart in the Nas family.

22 (48m 3s):
When, when Jess died, one of the children was in charge.

24 (48m 9s):
He was named the exact,

22 (48m 10s):
Your administrator. He was, yes. Of the, of the estate. And there were some that were very, very put out.

24 (48m 20s):
See, he tried to, they had to sign off and give him the authority to dispose of it. And some of them were not do it. And some of them would not do it. No, that is correct. It's a terrible thing to say. But as they died off one by one, by one, it made it easier. But it wasn't even settled when this person who was in charge settled his state. He had died and still it was left. And then the widow was paying the taxes all these years. And she said, well, I'm not going to continue to pay them. Let 'em go. I mean, there's, I think there were one or two of the family left and they didn't want to pay them. No. So she said, the heck with it, I'm not gonna, so the town took it for taxes.

24 (49m 8s):
I finally went to the town and I said, you know, that's a fire hazard. I built a new house here. People are over there pouring around. I said they could step on a nail, a glass, a wire, and, and Sue, it's not posted. So I said, it ought to be burned.

22 (49m 25s):
I was at my daughter's and I was in her kitchen the day they were burning that. But we could see the flames and everything.

24 (49m 34s):
Oh yeah, I remember it. I remember the fire department coming and burning it. Yeah. I had communicated with Mr. Thompson. He said to me at the time, will you arrange with the fire department to burn it at a practice session session? And I will give them a thousand dollars donation. Which he did. Mm. Yeah. And I said, thank God, because it was a nice sore and people were in and out of it all the time.

23 (50m 1s):
Was it still full of stuff when it burned?

22 (50m 6s):
There

24 (50m 6s):
Was a lot of junk in there. Yeah.

23 (50m 13s):
Now the nations also had a store in Effingham Falls. There was a old

22 (50m 17s):
Oh yes, they certainly did. Jess and Bertha had the store. Right. It

24 (50m 22s):
Wasn't Nevie Ann Falls.

22 (50m 23s):
No. It was still Freedom. Freedom.

23 (50m 25s):
What do you remember about the store?

22 (50m 28s):
Well, I know it did quite a business. It sold a lot of beer

24 (50m 32s):
And they had candy. Oh, yes. and they, they was in Glass Show, Cass, and

22 (50m 35s):
They had groceries and

24 (50m 36s):
That store was just packed with everything you could handle it through.

22 (50m 40s):
Well, that's how Jess was. No,

24 (50m 42s):
That's

23 (50m 43s):
Why. What do you mean Jess was like that? Just, he just had a lot of stuff. But

22 (50m 46s):
He, he was a keeper of everything. Yeah.

23 (50m 49s):
Do you remember when it closed or why

24 (50m 51s):
They both had died?

3 (50m 53s):
Yeah.

24 (50m 56s):
And none of the kids wanted to run it.

23 (51m 6s):
Why would a family leave? All their things, these, these precious things. Yeah. Not, not of value, but of great emotional

22 (51m 14s):
Value. No sentimental value. Yeah. You know, I've never really thought of it, but it seems rather tragic in a way. I mean, that was a large family. I mean, how well do you know people, you know how, how many of them were interested in knowing

25 (51m 39s):
Well,

2 (51m 48s):
And so the house in the store were abandoned because the kids didn't care. In some ways, this was Bleecker than anything I'd imagined back when I was 11, I'd assumed a murder or an illness or an accident caused the NASS to leave all these things behind. Something out of the family's control. But in fact, it was the opposite. The family made it happen. They didn't care about the stuff, or they just didn't care to remember.

24 (52m 13s):
It's too bad they weren't here to tell you. They were characters, weren't they? Yeah. Nice people. But they were a breed that had to find,

22 (52m 22s):
Well, they were the old school, didn't

24 (52m 24s):
It? Yeah, that's right. Yeah,

22 (52m 25s):
They were

24 (52m 26s):
And they made everything due.

22 (52m 28s):
Yeah. But didn't everybody then Those were the good old days too. You're not kidding when every we hading, but money.

24 (52m 38s):
Yes, I guess so.

22 (52m 40s):
You better believe

24 (52m 40s):
You. I had a swimming pool, a Mercedes, but the rest,

22 (52m 43s):
Well, of course you wouldn't. A place for a pony by the

2 (52m 52s):
Members of the nascent family who declined to be interviewed on tape, confirmed the story. Mabel and Dave told me, Jesse and Bertha Nason lived in the house until 1946. That's when they opened the store near Effingham Falls and moved to the apartment above the store. They took what they needed and left the rest in the old house, using it as storage and keeping open the possibility that they'd moved back someday. When Jesse and Bertha died, the fight over the estate began immediately. Their kids, there were nine of them locked up the store until it could be resolved. The house stayed pretty much as it was after 11 years. The fight was settled, the property was auctioned, the money was split, and the buildings were raised to the ground.

2 (53m 33s):
I asked an older nation why they didn't clear out the precious things in the house. And she said, what precious things. It was full of crap. And I mean, crap. As for the woman in the letter that my mother was never able to forget, no one knew anything about her or her baby. Dave and Abel told me this just figures in a little town like freedom.

22 (53m 53s):
Are you kidding, honey?

24 (53m 55s):
No. It's a Peyton place. And explain that. What do you mean? No,

22 (53m 58s):
It's just like every other town.

24 (53m 60s):
No, there's nothing different. They're all of these little skeletons in the closet and bedroom affairs that

22 (54m 8s):
Yeah. Things that happen like in any typical old town. Right?

24 (54m 13s):
Yeah. It's all by gossip. It it's all, yeah. Yeah.

2 (54m 28s):
In retrospect, I know it was little much my obsession with the nascent as a kid. I found this stuff in their house, precious. So I assume they would too. But of course, the relics in their house weren't about my life. They carried no memories, good or bad. It's possible that for the Nass, they were reminders of an inheritance dispute or other disputes that they just as soon forget. When I was talking to my friend David about the nascent house, he told me this story his wife's father had recently and suddenly died and left behind a house that no one in the family wants. So David and his wife Susan now find themselves involved in figuring out what to do with it.

6 (55m 5s):
I feel like it's on the cusp of being abandoned. No one's living there. You know, it's ripe for being vandalized And. what do you do with a house like that? And now it's, it's strange. I mean, it's, it's tied up in this weird world of legal probate where you can't really do anything with the property. You just kind of have to maintain it until some future court date, you know, the property's become a ball and chain. And Susan said, an interesting thing was, you know, gosh, I, I wish that house just burned down. And I was thinking, gosh, well, why would you wish the house to be burned down? It's partly, you know, it's, it's, there's a lot of memories tied up in the house and emotions tied up between her and her dad and symbolized by the house.

6 (55m 51s):
But something about It seemed relevant.

2 (56m 4s):
I wanted to show Samantha the spot where the house had once stood. So in the early evening, we walked through town and onto Loon Lake Road. We crashed through the bushes for a while hoping that we could find the old foundation or something. But there wasn't a trace. In fact, the very land where I remember the house was gone, the soil had been hauled away weeks before by bulldozers constructing part of the new Freedom Elementary School. Yeah. I mean, I'm pretty

26 (56m 31s):
Sure it was right in this flat spot, but this is all new. But I think it's through there. Cause you have the stone wall.

2 (56m 47s):
Later when I was packing to leave town, I found a small scrap of paper on the floor that had fallen out of the box of nascent stuff. There wasn't any writing on it, but I actually hesitated at the trash can. It's not that I missed my box of clues. I'd felt relief handing them over to Samantha. In fact, I actually felt lighter. But I was glad to have a remnant, however small of the nascent's. So I tucked the scrap in my bag.

1 (57m 22s):
Adam Beckman. In the years since reverse broadcast the story, Adam worked as a cinematographer and co-director of our TV show in his streaming. Many places online, several other people that Adam interviewed for this story have died since it first aired back in 2001. Gail Holger Bickford, one of the freedom locals, Carol Chase, the former fire chief and Mabel Davis, the woman Adam talked to on her friends from Porch Adam's mom, Elizabeth and his best friend Ian, who first entered the house with Adam, both died in 2020.

27 (57m 53s):
There's nothing left for me all days.

1 (58m 2s):
My bro is produced today by Wendy Dor and myself with Alex Bloomberg. Jonathan Goldstein and Starley Kind. Senior producer for today's program is Julie Snyder. Additional production help on this rerun from James Bennett Thei, Ella Mustafa Stone Nelson, and Matt Tierney. Special thanks today to Carol Ford, Madeline Eldridge, Ron Beckman and Jason Bittner. Our website, This American Life dot org, where you can stream our archive of over 800 episodes for absolutely free. This American Life. Still go to public radio stations by prx, the Public Radio Exchange. Thanks as always. Stewart Program's co-founder Mr. Tori Malatia, who describes a typical weekend this way,

2 (58m 37s):
A teenage daughter returns late from a dance with a rose. She pins it to the mirror and hangs her dress in the closet, and then something horrible happens.

1 (58m 47s):
I'm Ira Glass Back next week with the more stories of This American Life. Next week on the podcast of This American Life, one of our producers tries to quit smoking using one of the most popular books out there.

28 (59m 13s):
Okay, I've had a bunch of snacks and nothing makes it better. Like literally nothing makes it better. Everything makes everything that I I do instead of smoking makes me wanna smoke more.

1 (59m 25s):
Can a book rewire your brain answers? Next week on the podcast, on your local public radio station?