0 (0s):
BP added more than $70 billion to the US economy last year by making investments from coast to coast investments like acquiring America's largest biogas producer, ArcHa energy, and producing natural gas with fewer emissions in the Permian Basin. It's and not, or see what doing both means for energy nationwide at BP dot com slash investing in America.

1 (27s):
There's a short story by the fiction writer Ron Carlson, in which a guy loses his job after 10 years at the job. His boss tells him, okay, go to Plan B. And the guy says, this was Plan B, which is I think how it goes for most of us. We head off cheerfully toward plan A, but plan A turns out to be completely different from what we thought it was gonna be. And so we switched to a backup and then the backup plan becomes our life. A while back, I was giving a talk to about a hundred people, and knowing I was gonna be talking about this on the radio, I asked them to remember back to when they first hit adulthood, what is it that they thought their lives would be like? What was their plan A back then? And. I asked 'em, okay, how many of you are still on plan?

1 (1m 7s):
A out of a hundred people, only one person raised her hand. Just one. The youngest person in the room, just 23 years old. Everybody else in the room was like, Plan. B. What about Plan C and D and F Today on our program, stories of the Backup Plan and people Living the backup plan, which is most of us from WB, e z, Chicago to This American Life, our Ira Glass, our program today on five acts, including the story of how you decide as your backup plan to kidnap the child of the most famous entertainer in the world. And Jonathan Goldstein's story of how he took a telemarketing job just to tie things over for a while and then kept it for 10 years finding through his disappointment that he was better at telemarketing than at anything else in his life.

1 (1m 57s):
Stay with us Aqua. It's another Tequila Sunrise. John Hodgman tells this fable of giving up one dream for another much more ridiculous dream

3 (2m 16s):
A. few years ago, the company that owns Jose Cuervo Tequila purchased Marina Key, a small eight acres speck of an island in the Caribbean, and they renamed it Cuervo Nation. They applied to the UN for independent statehood. They encouraged US citizens to defect via a simple ritual of drinking a shot. They even tried to field an Olympic volleyball team. The whole thing was a bold experiment in advertising via Nation building. But since those heady early days of independence, the nation's patriotic fervor is calmed somewhat. It's now used as a place to send contest winners and a promotional lure for members of the world press, which is how I found myself headed to Cuervo Nation last June for a series of very educational Tequila tastings and how I met the nation's most prominent citizen and ambassador to the world.

3 (3m 4s):
He stood at the dock waiting for us as our fairy chugged over from Tortola shaven headed goateed. He sort of looked like Anton LaVey, were it not for the Speedos mirror shades and red superhero Cape a Satanist. At spring break Through a megaphone, he alerted us that we are now entering a party zone. As we disembarked, he began scooting maniacally around us with a Tequila shot balanced on his bald head, daring us to suck it down without using our hands. This was Cuervo man. The other Cuervo representatives were there to teach us about Tequila. Cuervo, man, I was told was there to party with us.

3 (3m 44s):
His job was to party. And just as I began to grasp the frightening yet thrilling ramifications of this fact, Cuervo man spotted me. He pointed to his shot ground head, opened his arms wide and chased me down the dock. Ville Man's real name is Ryan McDonough. I learned this from the Ville reps who I think were a little annoyed that I was asking so few questions about their Tequila and so many questions about the man who seemed to be their trained Tequila monkey. Actually, I was told the term is Party catalyst. And when he wasn't on the island, Ryan was going from bar to bar all over the northeast, embodying the untamed spirit of Jose Cuervo, meaning what I asked them, meaning he does interactive promotions designed to introduce consumers to the responsible enjoyment of the various brands of Jose, Cuervo Tequila meaning what I asked them.

3 (4m 43s):
And that's when Ryan ran up to the table with a toilet seat around his neck and a plunger stuck to the top of his head, dude, he said, check it out plunger on my head. And then he ran down to the beach and shoved sand down his pants. And then he sang a dirty song and made us do shots and teams. And then he collapsed in the surf and barked like a seal. It's sort of hard to explain what he does. They told me, and that's exactly why he fascinated me. I mean, consider the plunger word me. I might have come up with putting a toilet seat around my neck.

3 (5m 24s):
Sure, that's a natural. But then to extend the metaphor, to take the imaginative leap to the plunger on the head. Well, that's genius. By the last night I was there, the Cuervo reps realized I was a lost cause. They left me with a bottle of Cuervo especial and went to bed and Ryan And I got to talking. It turned out Cuervo man, And I have a lot in common. We both live in New York like me. Ryan is 30 years old, originally from the Boston area, like me, he went to an Ivy League school and spent most of his time there drinking and feeling outta place. Yes, the man barking like a seal. That's a Princeton man. And that's when I realized that apart from some small matters of fate and several thousand sit-ups on Ryan's part, we were the same.

3 (6m 11s):
We both came out of college with an English degree. The thirst for booze and the absurd faith that someone would pay us simply for being drunk and charming and in a strange but undeniable way for Ryan, that turned out to be true. And that's when I realized I was jealous of him. How does one get to be a party catalyst? I asked dude. he said, that's what everyone wants to know.

4 (6m 48s):
This is my bag of stuff, my bag of tricks. What kind of props A guy in my field needs. Got my helmet stuffed monkeys. I got LaGuardia Airport. I've got three of them.

3 (7m 2s):
It's six months later and I'm in Ryan's apartment in Brooklyn. He's agreed to take me with him to a couple of bars out on Long Island where he is doing whatever it is he does. And he's showing me a few of the things he'll bring with him.

4 (7m 13s):
The Speedo I have, I throw that on because it's just shocking. It's shock value. Rubber chicken plunger right on the bald head that there's,

3 (7m 26s):
It was never Ryan's dream to have a job wearing a plunger. He wanted to act. It's a cliche, I know, and so did Ryan. But he had done some singing and musical theater in college. And this was his dream, specifically, this was his dream.

5 (7m 40s):
There is nothing like a dame, nothing in the world. There is nothing you can name that is anything like a dam.

3 (7m 51s):
Ryan did South Pacific and summer stock and some dinner theater, but it really wasn't coming together the way he wanted it to from the beginning. He knew he needed a backup plan. So he started looking for a job in finance. After all, what's a Princeton degree? Good for if not making money, he interviewed at six companies, but he only got a callback at one.

4 (8m 13s):
I think everyone else who applied there from Princeton, they all got offered jobs. So I called and they were not gonna offer me a job. I'm like, why? Why not? And I was really, really upset and, and I thought I could change his mind or something. He's like, well, it just seems, you know, people seem to think that you are. You'd really rather be acting. And I'm like, why don't you leave that up to me? I need money

3 (8m 37s):
To act. He needed a day job, but the day job wanted him to act. So he was stuck in New York working part-time at a mail order Bible company and part-time at an Upper East Side bar. Now, Ryan enjoyed a delicious beverage from time to time. And when he drank, either after his shift or sometimes during, everyone paid attention to him. He'd make jokes and balance shot glasses on his head. He owned the room.

4 (9m 2s):
I mean, I've always been the type of guy that like, people would invite to parties, to weddings like people would offer when I had no money. And I was hanging out with my buddies from Princeton while we're making bank, you know, and they're like, come on, we're going out to the bar. I'm like, I don't have any money. They're like, I'll pay for your drinks. I want you to come out. And it, it wasn't even so much like I was such a great friend to these people. I was just a funny ass drunk. People wanted the funny ass drunk around. And And I was just, you know, bar backing And. I would always goof around. And. I would Occasionally get, get a little drunk and and dance with people. Anyway, the the DJ there was has his own DJ company and he would do weddings and parties and stuff like that. So he took me on.

3 (9m 43s):
And so Ryan joined a shadow industry of party professionals, the kind you might meet on resorts or on yachts, leading Surfside limbo competitions we're at reunions, encouraging people to dance. People whose job it is to force us to interact, to touch one another, to have fun because apparently this is something we've forgotten how to do. Ryan paid his dues working Bar Mitzvah's organizing group games, dressing up as Woody from Toy Story complete with a big plastic head over his own head. And then he got the call from Jose Cuervo. They were running a tugboat called the Untamed Spirit. Two for short booze cruises outta San Diego. And they wanted him on it.

3 (10m 23s):
His job would be to entertain winners of various Jose Cuervo promotional contests. And it turned out they pretty much enjoyed the same things the 13 year olds did, minus the big plastic head and plus Tequila and Ryan could drink too.

4 (10m 38s):
That was the envy of all my peers, really. you know, I, and eventually the opportunity came to do it full time. And the tough part about it was that I was gonna have to give up acting any pretense I had of being an actor was gone. 'cause it was like, you know what? I'm not doing it. So I was like, let's make some money doing something that's close to acting. And so I, I went with it.

3 (11m 2s):
Ryan had entered the party zone.

6 (11m 13s):
It's your lucky night here, Montereys. We got Jose Cuervo in the house tonight, and I think the fire department might like that from Uniondale. You guys doing good? You want some complimentary Cuervo samples? In other words, shots you don't have to pay for. Yeah.

3 (11m 30s):
Monterey Sports Bar is on Route 24 in Uniondale Long Island. Hofstra University is nearby, but this part of Uniondale is not so much a college town as it is a college strip. A blacktop spoke of suburban sprawl with Montereys on the corner next to a guns and ammo shop next to a Starbucks inside it's dank and cavernous with banners, advertising 15 cent wings and $5 pitchers. I'll learn many important things tonight, but perhaps the most surprising is this. People in bars apparently need Cuervo t-shirts and many shot glasses in order to live and to get them. They will do unimaginable things.

6 (12m 10s):
Right now I've got a T-shirt in my Speedo And I. See that? Yes. Oh, you want, hold on, I'm gonna come see you. You gotta fight it nice and slow. Who's getting it?

3 (12m 21s):
Let me set the scene. Brian is standing at the back of the crowded bar. He's torn off his black breakaway sweatpants to reveal a very tight Speedo stuffed with t-shirts. And then, how shall I put this? Young women crouched down in front of him, take hold of his shirt with their teeth and pull

6 (12m 39s):
Oh oh oh oh. Fight it like you mean it like cave woman. Yes, that's what I'm talking about. I

3 (12m 47s):
Gotta, I hadn't bargained for this. That was

6 (12m 49s):
Almost

3 (12m 49s):
Pornographic. If Ryan's not giving girls t-shirts out of his pants, he's serving them shots off his head eye level with their bras or asking them to lick his scalp or just rubbing up against them. Hold on one sec. Maybe it's because he seems more mischievous than predatory, or maybe it's because he comes with the sanction and strange de celebrity of a well-known liquor brand. But Ryan is able to do and say things in the name of Cuervo that would get you arrested in their most circumstances. And his antics aren't just tolerated, they're adored.

6 (13m 19s):
Alright, pay no attention to my head right in your candy cans, no hands

3 (13m 25s):
On Cuervo Nation. I would've described him as a kind of corporate jester. But as I watch women gleefully French him and then wander casually back to their boyfriends, a better word comes to mind. He's a Seder, the half man, half East concert of Dion, ISIS, God of drunken rebel Ray. And not just because he's got a hairy back.

6 (13m 45s):
Why don't you trim me like, like Sasquatch. I trust you. Trim me, trim me like Sasquatch, take, take me home and domesticate me. Who's Sasquatch? Sasquatch? He's a hairy guy. You have a laundry on your head.

3 (13m 58s):
And, if you haven't guessed already. This is the other reason I'm fascinated by Ryan's job. While the rest of the bar grind dances and flirts and watches sports on the 30 odd TVs at Monterey's, I've somehow managed to plant myself next to the single screen that's inexplicably tuned to PPS. Specifically Rick Burns's documentary of New York. Ryan, on the other hand, is out there moving in a world in which commerce and pleasure and liquor and sex are all intimately and uncritically entwined. And everyone is having a wicked good time. It's a world in which I normally don't travel. And Ryan is my ticket in. When he runs out to his car for a last minute T-shirt resupply, I realize that this is my chance to try my hand at Serm.

3 (14m 43s):
I get a tray of shots from the woman who's been helping Ryan And I start making the rounds.

6 (14m 47s):
Hey, do you want free Tequila shot? Do you wanna try

7 (14m 51s):
One of these? They're it's Tequila from Queer Vote. Follow

8 (14m 54s):
Me, we'll go to my friends and we'll all

2 (14m 56s):
Have shots.

3 (14m 57s):
Oh yeah, okay, let's go. And I do follow her. But when we find her friends, they all just stare at me. Maybe it's not clear. So I say, do you want free Tequila? And they just say, no thanks.

2 (15m 10s):
Designated Driver. Awesome. If it's something I did, I can do, I could do something wacky.

3 (15m 21s):
If there's one thing that should not be hard to give away in a bar, it's free drinks. And yet as I go from corner to corner, no one is drinking off my head. No one is pulling anything out of my pants. Part of the problem is I'm not Ryan and maybe I should shave my head and loosen up a little. But beyond that, what I don't realize until I'm out there doing it is as much as I love to drink, and as much as I love Jose, Cuervo, Tequila, and as much as I'd love another free trip to Cuervo Nation, I feel weird pushing some big company's message that slamming down shots is a great game. The drinking always equals fun, which even Ryan knows isn't exactly true because one thing I haven't mentioned yet, and probably should have, is that Ryan doesn't drink.

3 (16m 9s):
At least not anymore.

9 (16m 11s):
I would swallow a shot, chill it so it's not hot. Then I'll have some more. Not a little lot suck on a lime. No, it's not a crime. Sometimes we all need a chaser. I wanna put my tender gold in a blender watch. It's been around two or tasty. Margarita Jose Tequila.

3 (16m 31s):
Part of Ryan's act is writing new lyrics to existing rock songs that describe the pleasures of drinking Cuervo, or give very precise directions on how to do a body shot. Here's an example. Shots with or without training wheels. Cuervo doesn't hurt, you know, it heals. It's a little unnerving to hear, knowing that the person who wrote these lyrics is the same person who quit drinking more than a year ago, in part because he was afraid that it might kill him. He was kicked out of a hotel in Florida for throwing a table off the balcony in St. Louis. He blacked out in the middle of a promotion and a Cuervo Nation. He got so loaded, he Accursed out an elderly guest. He was supposed to be entertaining.

4 (17m 10s):
It was an older guy, probably in his sixties. And they were like professional contest winners. And he's talking at dinner about like all these other contests he won and how like this one was nicer than this one and, and blah, blah, blah. And it sounded like he was complaining a little bit about something. And I was like, why don't you shut up?

2 (17m 28s):
It's

4 (17m 29s):
A free fricking trip. Old man. Okay, why don't you take your professional contest winning attitude and shove it up your, and the next day I woke up like, I know I said something awful.

3 (17m 53s):
The problem for Ryan was that in most cases it is very bad to be caught drinking on the job. But in Ryan's case, it only made him more successful. The wilder and drunker he got, the more bars wanted him back, the more Cuervo wanted him back. And what amazes me is that at the time Ryan was deciding to get sober, Cuervo asked him to sign on for another a hundred promotional gigs over the course of the coming year. And Ryan said, how about one 50? That's every weekend, almost half the year spent in bars, Tequila on his head, Tequila spilling down his face. It must be like Eve working in the Apple factory that's owned by snakes.

3 (18m 34s):
How does it feel as someone who doesn't drink anymore to be confronted on a nightly basis with people who might be the drunk and hurting? Former you?

4 (18m 44s):
I just don't think about it all that much because there's nothing I can do about it either way. And, I just don't know. I, I think that's it. I mean, I, I can't make any judgment. I mean, there's, there's nobody that I could tell you like, that guy needs to stop drinking and know it for sure. I could certainly say like, oh, that guy reminds me of me. you know that, that happens a lot. But When, it comes down to it. I just, it's up to them. It's just, it's not my call.

3 (19m 24s):
Ryan's 150 day Barhop for Cuervo is almost over. His current contract is coming to a close and he's now working on a new very different project.

2 (19m 34s):
I am Sonic Bass. So Man Sonic Bath Now's to prove what a smooth clean shave you'll get with a Panasonic sonic

3 (19m 40s):
Shaving. This is a television ad for the Panasonic Sonic Shaver Max Electric shaver in which Ryan plays a character called Sonic Man. He got the gig from someone who saw him doing a Quavo promotion. And a lot of it's the same. He jumps around in public accosting, people yelling at them, convincing them of the superiority of this particular brand of shaver by hopping into fountains and getting sprayed with a hose. But if it sounds as if there's no difference, think of this first, people do not generally drink while they're shaving. And second, Ryan's an actor now an actual actor with national exposure, a good agent making decent money.

3 (20m 25s):
So the backup plan has brought him back to his original plan. And, I'm happy for him, but also kind of sad, put it this way, I still kind of want to be Cuervo man, but I don't think I'd ever want to be sonic man. The fact is, Ryan's leaving something behind the booze, obviously, and that's a good thing. But also the bacchanalian power of the, the booze, it's danger. The contradictions that made queer Bowman more than a day job, but a kind of inspired extension of Ryan himself, which is to say the kind of art

6 (20m 59s):
Shots coming out plunges on the head.

3 (21m 2s):
And, I wonder now that he's the actor he always wanted to be. If he'll ever get a role as good as the one he's already played,

6 (21m 9s):
Hey, throw this, come here, throw this, throw it onto my plunger, throw the little, the Frisbee onto the plunger. Pop it out. Little r does. You got it, you got it. Is it

1 (21m 23s):
That story? And this week's entire program we first broadcast back in 2002. Since then, core of our Nation has closed down. Ryan now lives in Long Beach, California with his wife and 10-year-old son. He says he's been sober for 23 years now and has gotten some work as an actor. Yes, plan A kicked in kind of late in 2021. He wrote and produced a film called Last Night in Razzi. He's also coming up on two years as a project manager at Google. John Hodgman is the host of the Judge John Hodgman podcast on maximum fun.org. He's also gonna be performing live at the San Francisco Sketch Fest later this month. Ssf sketch fest.com.

1 (22m 13s):
Act Two y talk. Okay, here's a situation that many of us have been in and found ourselves confused about what to do. You start to become friends with somebody from work and then you run up against this problem, which requires action of some sort and a new plan. This happened to Starlee kind at her old job with a woman named Robin.

10 (22m 34s):
We had just met and we'd go out for like drinks and stuff after work. you know, we really liked each other and we wanted to like, we like kind of decided we were gonna be like new really good friends, you know? But you know, we, we didn't know anything about each other, so we'd start to tell each other things, you know. But the problem was we were just so busy And. there was never enough time to tell each other that, that like the big stories in our life.

1 (22m 57s):
And at that point, your friend Robin came up with a, a Plan B.

10 (23m 1s):
She did. She got to the point where she, 'cause she would like start to tell me stories and she'd get really frustrated by how much she had to tell. And then she was like, just, I'm just, I'm just gonna make you a tape. And so at one point I was going home to la I am from la and then right before I left for la she like just was like, here you go. Here's your tape. And I started listening to it and like, it was true. Like she like started by saying, okay, so now I'm gonna do my ex-boyfriend montage.

11 (23m 25s):
All right, I'm not gonna start when I was a kid, but I am gonna just give you a little background history with the guy thing. I'm gonna try to stay as close to the truth as possible. That was a drag off of a cigarette. That's what I was doing right there. Alright, start.

10 (23m 42s):
The whole first sight A is all her ex-boyfriends, all the way they affected her and how it changed her and, and, and just with like all the little detail thrown in. And it's very thorough and it's very complete. And I definitely get a sense that like of, of the boyfriend, everyone

11 (23m 57s):
Was Ken and Ken was a hockey player. He was not the smartest guy in the world. And he could only describe our relationship in hockey metaphors like Robin is like when you're skating towards a goal and you think you've got it, but you don't. And it's like a puck that hits you once, but you remember,

10 (24m 18s):
I mean, the whole, the whole goal of it is so nice and touching that she wanted me to know this about her, you know. And then she put this time into making this like catalog of her life so that I could, could, could know her better.

11 (24m 31s):
But Tony And I would go to all these sort of like, prestigious art openings and he would always get drunk and start raving like, this is, I could do this better. This is, and he would walk around and just, he, he just couldn't understand contemporary artwork. And, I really can't either. So I could kind of understand. And these, we'd go to these installations where the whole room would just be like one big dung ball and he would like scream, this is really because it was, you know, and,

10 (25m 1s):
And then on side B she starts, she has like a list of the other things that she wants me to know. And they're really, really, really small things. And they're just like, like I had this dream once. And I, I, I feel you should know this. This is like, I get afraid when people are choking in restaurants, you know, like just like tiny, like couple sentences and she's got a list and she's like kind of checking it off as she goes along.

11 (25m 21s):
But anyway, the one pet that I didn't have, which I wasn't allowed to have, was a dog. So I would steal the neighbor's dog Muffin And I had this, I think I told you about the dream where a woman had 82 household objects lodged within her body. And I'm still trying to figure that one out. And I, we throw up story, don't feel like talking about it. The tea story.

1 (25m 45s):
And then after all that, she takes her on the tape recorder and then she gets other people to talk on your tape.

10 (25m 50s):
Yes. She walks around and has people say hello to me and she says, will you say happy birthday to my 75-year-old grandmother Starlee? and

1 (25m 59s):
She complete Strangers

10 (25m 60s):
Com abs. Total complete strangers. Just, they're just like random people on the street.

11 (26m 5s):
I'm making a tape from my grandmother Starlee for her 75th birthday. Could you just say, hi, Starlee. Hi Starlee. Thank you. I know you're in a rush. I can see you're running. Could you just say, hi, Starlee? Hi. Hi. Okay, thank you. I'm making a tape from my grandmother's 75th birthday. Standby Kevin and her name's Starlee. Could you just say Hi Starlee. Hi Starlee, how are you? Thank you. Bye-Bye.

1 (26m 32s):
So did this do what you wanted it to do?

10 (26m 34s):
Oh, I think so, for sure. Yeah. It, it totally felt like the perfect solution to the problem of making friends as you get older, you know, because like, it's really, as you get older, I'm not that old, but like the thing I miss most as an adult is, is time, is is like, time is so valuable now. And you don't get to have the same conversations that you did when you were like in high school where you'd be on the phone with someone for like eight hours a night or you'd like just stay up and all night long and tell every single thing that's ever happened to you. And there was even less that had happened to you 'cause you were like 15 years old and it was just like so much talking, so much bonding, bonding, bonding, bonding. And as an adult you just don't have like the chance to do that very much.

10 (27m 16s):
And then, and now we're like, yeah, now we're really good friends. you know, like since then, like I understand all of her references, you know, like I, I feel like I've known her much longer than I have.

1 (27m 25s):
But, but is isn't isn't kind of the point of, of being friends with somebody that when they tell you this information that it happens in a conversation that that's, that that's not the background for the friendship. That that actually is the friendship.

10 (27m 37s):
Yeah, I mean, I mean some could say that, sure, but, but as far as like the past stuff, I feel like it's not that big a different sometimes because like it gets to a point where you just have all these kind of bottled stories. Like I got this boyfriend, he did this, And I have this boyfriend, he did this and it meant this and it meant that. And so like why not just put those stories on a cassette tape test. Someone listened to all at once,

1 (27m 59s):
Starly Kind. She was a writer on the most recent season of the FX Hulu show. Dave coming up Sock puppets dialing for steak and kidnapping as Plan B. That's in a minute. From Chicago Bubba Radio that a program continues. This American, Life am Ira Glass. each week our program, of course we choose some theme, bring you a variety of different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's show Plan B stories of people ditching their expectations and living inside a backup plan as most of us do. Today's show is a rerun. We have arrived at Act Three of our program, Act Three when kidnapping is Plan B.

1 (28m 41s):
I think Barry Keenan always had a hard time thinking of himself as a kidnapper. He grew up in southern California in Malibu, went to high school with children of movie stars and other super rich people. And if you could say that he had an actual plan for his life. He achieved a lot of it by the age of 22. It was the early 1960s. He was the youngest member of the Los Angeles Stock Exchange. He had successfully put together some real estate deals. He was making a lot of money, but he had also started drinking heavily and became addicted to Percodan and other painkillers.

12 (29m 11s):
Of course, if you're drinking and taking strong painkillers, you get very numbed out and on a good day you might have an hour of rational thinking, quote unquote rational thinking. And then also the market had a big downturn in late 62, early 63. And my real estate deals went sour in a period of six months. I went from earning about in the neighborhood of 10,000 a month, 1960 $3 to trying to sell transparent window shades, door to door to stores in the middle of the desert.

1 (29m 47s):
And it's 1963. You're how old at that point?

12 (29m 50s):
23.

1 (29m 51s):
So, so you've gone broke, you're 23 and then you come up with this Plan B.

12 (29m 56s):
Well, one day I decided, well, I have to do something radical and in my demented state, suddenly it came to me that the way to so solve my problems was to get some money somehow. And it would have to be illegally because I was obviously incapable of raising money for my real estate projects and securities projects. So I came across, you know, kidnapping was, seemed like a good idea. And I put a business plan together and went to my wait,

1 (30m 24s):
Wait business, wait, kidnapping seemed like a good idea. And you put a business plan together?

12 (30m 28s):
Yes, I was very business oriented. It was, I never referred to it as a kidnapping. It was going to be, it was the plan of operation. It was kind like an underwriting, a securities underwriting. But I had to go take somebody's kid in order to raise the money to go invest in business propositions. And then of course, in order to be being a good Catholic, the only way I could get rid of the sin was to pay the money back. Ultimately,

1 (30m 51s):
You know, you know, you said you, you say that kidnapping seemed like a reasonable option. Wasn't there any part of it that kind of horrified you?

12 (30m 59s):
No, because in my, in my drug induced state, you might say it, it it, I knew I wasn't gonna hurt anybody and therefore it wasn't going to be a crime as far as my moral character was concerned. And as long as I was willing to pay the money back and, and was absolutely not gonna hurt anybody, then it seemed like it was. Okay.

1 (31m 23s):
So So explain to me who you decided to kidnap.

12 (31m 27s):
Well I went down the list of all the wealthy people I knew and who had kids that I knew. There was Vicki Douglas, whose father was CEO of Douglas Aircraft. That was eliminate 'cause she was a girl. Jim Mitcham knew me too well and his father Robert Mitcham, you know, He was rich one month and then broke the next, and then Arthur Lake, whose father was Johnny Wisemiller. All these people that had famous parents, And, you know, I went down the list and finally I, I thought of Nancy and of course Nancy Nancy Sinatra, the oldest daughter of Frank Sin Sinatra. And so then I said, of course Junior.

12 (32m 11s):
And of course I I say Junior And, I'm referring to Frank Sinatra Junior Frank senior's son.

1 (32m 17s):
And had you met him before?

12 (32m 20s):
I had seen him. I mean I knew Nancy in high school and, and junior high and had been to her home several times and knew that the, the son who was away at boarding school was sort of distant from the girls. The girls were doted a palm. The junior was so always sort of like out of the picture,

1 (32m 37s):
How much ransom money were you gonna ask for

12 (32m 40s):
240,000? That was I I made a list of all the money we needed both for investments and to help my parents and it came out to $240,000. Hmm. Because since I was gonna have to pay it back, I didn't wanna raise more money than I could easily pay back.

1 (32m 56s):
And you decided you wanted to, you were gonna take the money and then you're going to do what? To make it back?

12 (33m 1s):
I, I was going to invest in, in real estate projects in West Los Angeles and in the specific stocks that I was gonna invest in was Chrysler at the time, which was in the toilet. And of course made a spectacular comeback and a various, several different stocks and some real estate, which ultimately became Marina Delray, the world's largest marina. And it, and in fact, if I had, you know, by some miracle had ever gotten the money and, and it in fact invested, it would've turned out the way that I had it outlined in my business plan. So the investments were actually fairly prudent. It just was the concept was a little off.

1 (33m 38s):
And, and so, so you were gonna take this capital, you were gonna invest in this stuff and then you were gonna make a profit over I guess a couple years, right?

12 (33m 46s):
Yeah. It'd be about as a five year plan.

1 (33m 49s):
And then at the end of five years, you were gonna give the money back to Sinatra.

12 (33m 52s):
Yes. Send the money back to Frank Sinatra and just imagining the reaction that he and the FBI would have when the ransom money starts coming back to him

1 (34m 1s):
And j just explain how, how the plan of operation was gonna go. How the whole thing would come off, where everybody would be at the end. How, how is that gonna, okay.

12 (34m 8s):
It was an index in a three wing binder with indexes and one of the sections was the benefit to the Sinatra family and it would bring father and son closer together. And at the time, Sinatra was being investigated for his connections with the mob and money laundering through the Cal Niva Lodge and Sands Casino in Las Vegas. Hmm. And I thought, well this might even help him there.

1 (34m 32s):
You mean help, help his image.

12 (34m 34s):
Yes, help, help his, because I felt that if the public would perceive him as a worried parent rather than a, a famous singer hanging out with the mafiaa that would cast him in a more favorable image. And that was one of the things that I listed in the benefits of the Sinatra family.

1 (34m 53s):
You know, the thing about that plan Barry is is that it in a way, it it's utterly logical. It just proceeds from a premise that's so crazy

12 (35m 5s):
Saying, people don't wake up one day and decide they're gonna go kidnap the most famous entertainer in the world who has known Mafiaa connections. And so you're gonna have the FBI and the Mafiaa after you. The same people don't do that. And particularly thinking that they're gonna benefit the victims as well as their own family.

1 (35m 24s):
When as Barry Keenan to tell me what happened when he tried to put his Plan B into effect and do the kidnapping, he's at such pains to get the truth of it across to me and to prove especially that the blame for the crime falls entirely on him and not on two pals that he enlisted help with the kidnapping. That the story is filled with far too many details and takes far longer than we can spend here. Suffice it to say that it was a comedy of errors. In December of 1963, the 23-year-old Keenan and a friend nabbed, the 19 year old Frank Sinatra Jr, who was performing at Lake Tahoe Keenan accidentally left his gun in Sinatra's hotel room. He didn't have any cash to buy gas or the getaway car. During the getaway, his buddy Joe climbed out of the car into a snowstorm and knocked himself out by running into a tree branch.

1 (36m 7s):
When they called Frank Sinatra Sr. And demanded a ransom Sinatra offered them a million dollars and they tried to talk him down to 240,000. 'cause that's what it said in the plan,

12 (36m 16s):
We sent Frank to a gas station payphone to get the next instructions about how to get his son back. So, you know, Frank Sinatra Senior and the FBI go racing down the Carson City 30 minutes away. And in about 15 minutes John started calling for Frank Sinatra to the gas station and the mechanic at the gas station who was busy and by himself kept answering the phone. And this caller was asking for Frank Sinatra the most famous entertainer in the world at the time. And the guy got very angry when this caller was calling back time and again for Frank Sinatra,

1 (36m 55s):
He thinks it's a funny phone call.

12 (36m 57s):
Yeah, he thinks it's a prank of some sort. And so as soon as he hung up from the third time after letting John have it with four letter words, he, before he even gets back to his car in screeches two FBI cars and Frank Sinatra Sr. Jumps out of the car and says, my name's Frank Sinatra. Have I had any calls? And you can imagine the, the, the reaction that that poor mechanic had. So finally, one more time, John called back, and this time Frank answered the phone and John told him what the next step was gonna be.

1 (37m 30s):
Barry did it, did it occur to you that the person who you were kidnapping and their family would be traumatized and, and and frightened?

12 (37m 38s):
No, because the way that the plan of operation was designed, and the way I wrote it out in the script, it was always supposed to be just between Frank Sinatra Sr. Frank, Sinatra Jr, my group of people and the FBI, the, the mother and sisters were not to be involved in the kidnapping. And, and based upon what I knew about Frank Sinatra s and the family and so forth, I did not think that he would let hi his wife know if he thought the kidnapping was gonna be resolved in a, a matter of a few hours.

1 (38m 11s):
I wonder if the fact that you constructed such an elaborate web of logic with your business plan, that that made the kidnapping seem so reasonable and even good for the Sinatras. I wonder if that prevented you at the time from comprehending what you were putting them through, you

12 (38m 29s):
Know? Oh, absolutely. I had it so rationalized and justified. I I had God's approval and this thing was being divinely blessed.

1 (38m 37s):
What was the sign that it had God's approval?

12 (38m 40s):
Well, I could God talk to me, particularly when I would go to church and light a candle and be still And, I would hear the, you know, God talking to me and say, telling me what I had to do. And he was very definite about nobody could be hurt and had to pay the money back.

1 (38m 56s):
As you've gotten older and sobered up and gotten wiser, does God still talk to you?

12 (39m 2s):
Oh no, no. That went away when I got sober and also got psychiatric help. So, you know, when I hear voices nowadays, I don't pay any attention to 'em.

1 (39m 14s):
After successfully getting $240,000 in ransom money and returning Frank Sinatra Jr's safely home, Barry Keenan and his accomplices were caught. Keenan was sentenced to life plus 75 years, but was released after just four years. 'cause his psychiatric evaluation found that he was legally insane at the time of his crime. He returned to the real estate business where he was wildly successful, became a millionaire A. few years ago, he sold his kidnapping story to the movie studios for several times more than the original ransom amount. He showed his papers indicating that all of his profits from the sale would go to charity and says that he agreed to a movie deal only to set the record straight about a lie that he told during his trial back in the 1960s. Back then he says he spread a rumor that the kidnapping was only a publicity stunt staged by the Sinatras and not a real kidnapping under the Son of Sam Law, which says that convicted felons cannot make a profit from selling their own stories.

1 (40m 8s):
Frank Sinatra Jr challenged Keenan's contract with the movie studios in February, 2002, the California Supreme Court ruled in Keenan's favor queing the way for the movie to be made, but it never was. The studio Columbia pictures put the project on hold and then in 2003, Showtime made the story into a film with William h Macy and David Arquette. Barry Keenan got no money from the deal. He died in 2022.

1 (40m 53s):
Act Four I fate most of his fear. Years ago living in Canada, Jonathan Goldstein had a job selling the Montreal Gazette newspaper over the telephone. It was the kind of normal Plan, B kind of job that most of us have had at one point or another. And when Jonathan took the job, he did not realize that it would become a 10 year chapter in his life.

13 (41m 14s):
When you're a little kid, you never decide that one day you're going to be a telemarketer. It's not something that you plan, it just happens like the way going ball just happens or the way falling down. A flight of stairs just happens one minute, you're at the top of the landing and the next you're at the bottom and you'll be damned if you can remember each one of the individual steps that led you between the two. All during the time I was working at the Gazette, I found it nearly impossible to bring myself to tell anyone I was a telemarketer. When people asked what it was I did for a living, I'd simply say that I was a salesman. And when they asked what it was that I sold, I would say dreams, and then I would look at them for a moment quizzically.

13 (41m 58s):
Then I would say that I was only joking and then they would say, oh, And I would become uncomfortable and then they would become uncomfortable. Then they would stop asking me anything As you might expect, the hard thing about working at the Gazette was that there was just so much rejection. Even though you were calling almost 200 people a day, 98% of whom wanted to see you dead, you still had to bring a certain hopefulness to each call. A feeling that this one, the call you were making right now could be the one. It was almost like trying to hypnotize yourself into believing that something as certain as say gravity didn't exist, and the next time you drop the apple, it won't fall to the ground, but it will float up into the sky like a helium balloon.

13 (42m 46s):
I would often pretend the people on the other end of the line were sock puppets to soften the sting of their hangup. I once shared this thought with a girl who had just started working there. Pretend there's a little sock puppet on the other end. I encouraged all cute with coat button eyes holding the phone in his mouth. She considered the logic of this for a moment. How does he talk with a phone in his mouth? She asked, and for this, I really didn't have an answer. In the pitching room, we all wore these headsets that were connected to computers. As soon as we hung up, the computer automatically dialed the next number so that we were always speaking to someone without respite.

13 (43m 30s):
Our boss was a man named Ray And. if you made two or three sales a day, then you were doing okay and Ray wouldn't scream at you. Generally I found the repetitiousness of the job comforting. You're never at a loss for words. You always know what you're going to say because what you're going to say is, hi, my name is Jonathan And. I wanted to know if you're interested in reading the Gazette newspaper. One time a woman who answered the phone would not believe I wasn't a friend of hers named Christopher. Stop playing around Christopher. She said, but I'm not Christopher. I responded, will you cut it out, Christopher? After several minutes of this, I had to hang up on her. I knew that Christopher was going to get it for that.

13 (44m 13s):
From my very first week at the Gazette, I was surprised to discover that I had a natural gift for sales, whatever I was in, whatever aspirations I had before I started working there, I became an instant Gazette legend, sometimes selling up to 10 subscriptions. In the course of a shift I got on the phone with people. And I made them want to listen. I joked with the men and flirted with the women. I gently cajoled them, bundling them up in my good strong telemarketing arms and tossed them up into the air where they screamed delightedly only to land back down with a brand new Gazette subscription. I would look around me at the other sad sacks in the pitching room and wonder how they could go on just scraping by with their two or three sales a day.

13 (44m 52s):
Telemarketing had been my backup plan, but now I found myself faced with the uncomfortable fact that it was what I was truly good at. I got myself a lucky ballpoint pen and spent half a day's pay on a fancy at aha case to put my leads in. I even had a special way of filling out the order forms that involved clear capital letters and Xs never checks in the boxes marked Visa or MasterCard. There was a bell on Ray's desk for when you made a sale and when I made a sale, I had a special way of hitting it with the balls of my fingers that made it sound as crisp and clean as a Glock and spiel I always kept to the one tap per sale rule. I respected the bill, not like some of the other guys who rang the crap out of it like they were five-year-olds riding their first two-wheeler.

13 (45m 41s):
The office manager was a man named Billy. Billy was a fat loudmouthed Greek man in a skin tight Hawaiian shirt. One of Billy's jobs was to keep us inspired. With pep talks, Billy would explain to us when he first started working at the Gazette, he was sitting right where we were and that now he makes as much money as a plumber and that in fact, we all had the opportunity to make as much as a plumber. I'm going out and eating a big fat steak tonight. He would say just like the way at the end of the day, a plumber does. Eventually as happens to all the mighty I fell, even now I can't explain it, hubris my diet.

13 (46m 24s):
Perhaps I started taking myself too seriously and lost my sense of fun. Who knows? But whatever the case, I suddenly found myself so desperate for sales that at the end of a shift still with nothing, I would order the paper to my own address and then cancel it the following week. It's a very real thing, the stink of desperation. It's an actual odor and people can smell it over the phone line. Your jokes become a little more hurried and forced your confidence a little more false. Your pauses more awkward. I soon found myself gazing longingly at the filled out order sheets clutched in the fist of the new office superstar, a 17-year-old whose phone name was candy who'd stroll past my desk coming taken care of business.

13 (47m 7s):
Now, when I came back from the bathroom during my shift, Ray would ask me what the hell took so long the toilet was for closers. A few weeks ago I got home and found this on my answering machine.

14 (47m 29s):
Hello, inside your area. And on top of that you can also,

13 (47m 36s):
When the telemarketer realized that there was no one there to pitch to, he stopped himself. But I want you to listen again and notice the long pause before he actually puts the phone down.

14 (47m 46s):
Hello, inside your safe area. And on top of that, you can also Also,

13 (47m 52s):
He says hello, he inhales, and before he puts the phone down, he pauses. As someone who sold over the telephone for close to 10 years, I can tell you that the pause between the hello and the hangup is a moment of reprieve. You start to talk, you realize you've gotten an answering machine, and then before you actually hang up, you steal a moment. You take shelter in those few seconds before you hit the hangup button and the onslaught of automatically dialed phone numbers begins anew delivering the voices of people who will very soon hate you directly into the earphones of your headset and straight into your brain. I played the message over and over listening to it, not to better hear the chaos of the pitching room, but to try and imagine what was going through his head.

13 (48m 38s):
And at the same time I tried to remember what went through my own head during those pauses. It was always sort of like that moment in a horror film where the guy who's having his head held down in a bathtub of water pops up one last time and goes before he is pushed back down and is drowned forever. Since the numbers were automatically dialed, you never knew who was going to pop up in your headset. One time I got my friend Mark Zelnik on the phone, a guy who I hadn't seen in years. Mark was in my junior high phys ed class. He used to get so excited while playing hog ball that he'd clutch the ball to his chest and roll around the floor drooling.

13 (49m 21s):
I tried to keep him on the phone as long as possible, never saying who I was, gleaning whatever I could about his life. I could hear his kids playing around trying to steal a phone from him. And all throughout I was shocked by how unfailingly decent he was with me. I felt like the anonymous stranger who shows up on Christmas Day to test a family's kindness. Mark didn't buy the paper, but he didn't rush me off either. It felt good to know that Mark Zelnik had grown up to be a really nice man. There was also one time I got my grandmother after several minutes of talking about how weird it was that I had gotten her number out of all the numbers in the city. She told me that she had just learned that morning that my grandfather's cancer had come back.

13 (50m 1s):
I looked across the room where Billy, the manager, was eating french fries and someone else was ringing the bell on Ray's desk after I hung up the phone with her. Not a second. Later, another call popped into my headset, hi, I am calling from the Gazette. I said my grandfather would be dead within the year, And then one day I got my own number. I can't explain it better than to say that having that happen is sort of like rounding the corner and running into yourself. At first, you don't quite recognize that it's you. You look a little shorter and less handsome. But then all of a sudden, in one naked instant, you're face-to-face with yourself.

13 (50m 44s):
I was the telemarketing dog that had caught its own telemarketing tale, the message that I left myself, because you just can't resist leaving yourself a message when something like, yep, here I am. God, this is awful. This is horrible. This has to mean something. But of course it didn't mean anything. And then for the next several seconds, I listened to the silence on the other end of the line, my own line as I worried about the rapid fire calls that would start again, the moment I hung up. When I got back home, I had exactly two messages on my machine. One was the message from myself. I was surprised by how loud the background noise was behind me and how much smaller I sounded than I'd imagined all these years.

13 (51m 31s):
The other message was from my mother. She was imploring me to go back to school and become a speech therapist.

1 (51m 44s):
Jonathan Goldstein is the host of the podcast heavyweight, which these days is looking for a new home for updates on the show, follow it on what used to be called Twitter and is now called X at at heavyweight Act Five The, Accursed Items. It's not just human beings who fail to achieve the fate that they thought that fate had in store for them, most everything does. Most everything eventually ends up somewhere that it was not designed to go serving a purpose that it was not meant for, even if that purpose is just landfill. We end our program today with this brief inventory from Jay Robert Lennon of the inanimate objects who have left their plan a far behind and now inhabit a permanent Plan B.

16 (52m 31s):
A bottle of pain reliever brought on a business trip that proves at the moment it is most needed to be filled, not with pain reliever, but with buttons. An accomplished forgery of a famous painting that was thought to have been lost in a 1965 Mansion fire, which now hangs in the largest gallery of a major American art museum sneakers hanging from the power line with one half of a boy's broken glasses stuffed into each toe. A mini mouse doll you found by the roadside and brought home intending to run it through the washer and give it to your infant son, but which looked no less for Lauren after washing and was abandoned on a basement shelf only to be found by your son eight years later and mistaken for a once loved toy that he had himself forsaken, leading to his first real experience of guilt and shame.

16 (53m 31s):
Love letters seized by federal agents in an unsuccessful drug raid, tested in a lab for traces of cocaine, exhaustively read for references to drug contacts, sealed in a labeled plastic bag and packed along with a plush bear holding a plastic heart into an unlabeled cardboard box itself loaded into a truck with hundreds of similar boxes when the police headquarters was moved and forever lost Nude Polaroids of a 13-year-old female cousin. An icicle preserved in the freezer by a child, which when discovered months later is thought to be evidence of a problem with the appliance leading to a costly and inconclusive diagnostic exam by a repairman, A gay porno magazine thrown onto a ball field from a car window and perused with great interest by the adolescent members of both teams, two of whom meet in the woods some weeks later to reproduce the tableaus they have seen leading to a gradual understanding that they are in fact gay and incident the memory of which causes one of the two when he's well into a life that is disappointing emotionally, professionally, and sexually.

16 (54m 46s):
To fling a gay porno magazine out his car window as he passes an occupied ball field on his way to what will be an unsuccessful job interview, a biscuit crushed into the slush of a Kentucky fried chicken parking lot. The orange toboggan whisking her to her death. A resume that betrays its author as utterly unqualified for the position for which she has applied, but which because it smells good, leads its reader a desperate experientially undernourished middle manager at an internet-based retail corporation to invite her into the office for an interview that although it further betrays the applicant's complete un suitability for the job, provides the middle manager with a physical impression to compliment the good smell, which impression is intensely exciting, forcing him to hire her as a supplemental secretary, much to the bafflement, chagrin, and eventual disgust of his ex extent.

16 (55m 46s):
Secretary, who during her employer's lunch hour, removes the resume in question from his files and personally delivers it to the CEO and who is with the CEO when he barges into the middle manager's office and finds the unsuitable supplemental secretary standing beside him, crying silently with her dress half off while he sits in his reclining office chair, sweating profusely and holding a plastic letter opener in a threatening manner. The house plant that will not die. 50 pairs of old blue jeans found at secondhand clothing stores and brought at great expense on a trip to Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Republics where rumor had it, old blue jeans could be sold for a lot of money, but where this was no longer true, as so many previous visitors had heard the same rumor and done the same thing, creating a glut of old blue jeans, which were not even all that stylish there anymore, and causing the entire trip to be ruined by the necessity of hauling around these huge suitcases full of other people's jeans, which smelled kind of bad as if those other people were currently wearing them.

16 (57m 2s):
The urine sample produced for the canceled doctor's appointment and forgotten in the back of the fridge. My eyeglasses covered with a thickening layer of dust that I never seem to notice that I simply adjust to until at last. I clean them out of habit and discover a new world sharp and filled with detail whose novelty and clarity I forget about completely. Within 15 minutes. Your signature rendered Illegible by Disease.

1 (57m 40s):
Jay Robert Glennon reading his story, The Accursed Items, which is a collection of stories called See You in Paradise. His new novel Hard Girls is Out next month. Today's show is produced by Starlee Kind, Lisa Pollock, and myself with Alex Bloomberg, Wendy Dore, Jonathan Goldstein, and Diane Cook. Our senior producer for today's program is Julie Snyder. Additional production on the rerun of the show from James Beit ii, Michael Comte, Catherine Raimondo, STO Nelson and Matt Tierney. The Ron Carlson story that I mentioned at the beginning of today's show is called Plan B for the Middle Class.

1 (58m 24s):
From the book of the same name, our website, This American Life dot org, where you can stream our archive of over 800 episodes for absolutely free This American Life is delivered to public radio stations by PRX, the public radio exchange. Thanks as always. To our program's Co-founder, Mr. Tory Malatia, who steps by the office now and then to remind the staff of the Secret to his success, to anybody's success. He feels it's his personal motto.

17 (58m 48s):
Fight it like you mean it, like cave woman.

1 (58m 52s):
I remember glass back next week with more stories of This American. Life

18 (59m 11s):
Want the same expert advice you get from the pros in the store while shopping online@discounttire.com. Meet Treadwell, your personal online tire guide that matches you with the perfect tire for your vehicle. Get your best match in one minute or less with Treadwell by Discount Tire.