0 (1s):
Hitt everybody. I have a glass here. So to celebrate This American Life 25th anniversary. We're putting eight favorite episodes from over the years into our regular podcast feed. And this is all kind of speaks for itself. It's from 2002. I don't know if I have any, a particular note to say about the success of Alex Bloomberg. He went on to create his own podcast company, Gimlet and host. The show is start-up and how to save a planet. He produced this story with contributor. Jack hit. It's a memorable one. Here it is from WBC, Chicago. It's This American Life I'm Eric Glass. Okay. Here's something that we did not expect. Check this out. This is recorded on a stage in Brooklyn St.

0 (41s):
Francis college

1 (42s):
We or not to be that is the question.

0 (48s):
The same month in Hawaii, on the Island of a wahoo

1 (52s):
To be, or not to be. That is the question, whether it is nobler in the mind to suffer the slings and arrows of outrageous fortune, or to take arms against a sea of troubles and by opposing and them,

0 (1m 9s):
Same month, a professional company in Boston, Massachusetts at the public theater,

2 (1m 13s):
Nobler, and the mind to suffer the slings and arrows of outrageous fortune, or to take arms against a sea of troubles and by opposing and

0 (1m 31s):
In Colorado at camp Shakespeare, you can actually hear the sneakers of the teenage Hamlet squeaking.

2 (1m 39s):
Why do you go about to recover the wind of me? Oh, my Lord is my duty be to bolt

0 (1m 45s):
In the Bay area of Shakespeare camp and presented by the San Francisco Shakespeare festival gets put on a production. They have concocted that is made up entirely of death scene from different Shakespeare plays. That seems because our kids love death scenes.

2 (1m 59s):
No

0 (2m 7s):
Eight year old, Marissa Graham grabs them throat like a cat, a violent cartoon. Every one of the production is eight, except for Polonius

2 (2m 14s):
There's six is fine.

0 (2m 26s):
There's actually no way to tell how many productions have Hamlet are up in at any given month. The summer of 2002, when we first broadcast today's show, when we made these recordings, the American theater website listed 12 theaters doing Shakespeare as Hamlet 11 productions of the play. I hate Hamlet on production of something called Hamlet dreams and one theater doing the dreadful and feared Hamlet machine. Of course Hamlet it's half is kind of a weird play. The central character is a situation that very few of us are ever going to find ourselves in his uncle, killed his father and then married his mother in order to become the King. The place for ours along the main conflict of the play is a guy debating in a long, complicated monologues, whether or not he should kill somebody.

0 (3m 7s):
What is there in that for most of us to relate to, unless of course we happen to be murderers. And what were the claim to be like, if it were actually performed by murderers and other violent criminals, what would they see that the rest of us do? Not what today on our program, we answer that question. And the answer is a lot over the course of six months or a reporter Jack Hitt visited prisoners at the Missouri Eastern correctional center, which is a high security prison from their first rehearsal to their last performance of act five of Shakespeare's Hamlet. We're debating our entire program to date the drama that he found there. Our program today act five. We bring you a, we believe is one of the most evocative productions of Shakespeare done anywhere in 2002, when they would have had a hard time getting tickets to there's only performed in prison.

0 (3m 55s):
Here's Jack Hitt

3 (3m 56s):
First thing they hand me. When I pass through the thick iron doors is a tiny black box called a screamer, pull the cord attached, and a phalanx of armed guards will sweep from all points of the prison and try to rescue me. I keep it in my pocket. As I enter a huge yard with more than a thousand prisoners wandering around, some of the guys are playing handball against walls. Some are lifting weights. As I walk across most of friendly, a couple of the skinheads, their arms dense with spider tattoos, narrow their eyes. As I pass across the yard, there's a big building. A long corridor leads to a door marked education annex inside. There's a room D one 68. We're a small white haired woman. Agnes Wilcox is holding auditions for him.

4 (4m 38s):
Let me see if you're not Hamlet her ratio layer twos, Claudia. So the Fort and bras, would you write down roles that interest you, those roles are clown one and two. We've got a priest we've got ISARIC

3 (5m 0s):
Dressed in loose prison uniforms. The actors sit around tables in this cinder-block classroom beneath inspirational slogans. Believe in yourself. Think positively. The aspiring casts is half black, half white and ranges from young lifers in their twenties to old timers in their fifties because it's against the rules to congregate an audience of felons for the four hours. It would take to perform the whole play. Agnes is stage one act every six months starting in December, 1999. Could we go back tonight is the first read-through for act five, the final bloody climax, many of the inmates here and never finished high school. And all they had known of Shakespeare was the phrase to be, or not to be tonight.

3 (5m 41s):
They are hearing some of the other famous speeches for the first time.

4 (5m 45s):
Hey, pestilence on him for a mad Rouge rogue rogue. He poured a flax flagging, a flagging of Renish Renish on my head once this same skull, sir was sure York's scull the King's gesture for Yorick. I knew him a ratio. They feel of infinite, jus of most excellent fancy. You have a bore me on his back a thousand times.

3 (6m 17s):
Most read-throughs with any casts are terrible, or this one is terrible too. The actors know it, but they plow on through the script. An inmate named Paul who serves as Agnes as assistant director explains why

5 (6m 30s):
Two to three weeks I thought, Oh no, there's no way. There's no way we're going to get this thing down and go and do a live performance and do a little quick two pages long other than there's. No, this is impossible, but well learned in here, I guess, from performing it in a hearing it done time again was the it'll be okay. It'll work out.

3 (6m 58s):
The local critics agreed with Paul, the act For performance into a review and the St. Louis paper, the actors were said to be commanding and compelling with the entire performance. The reviewer road a 400 year old text is restored to freshness. It seemed hard to imagine. I've seen Hamlet a dozen times. I've seen Kevin Klein to it at the public theater. I saw the famous Diane vanilla version three nights in a row, even so in my Bergman's production done in Brooklyn, performed entirely in Swedish. What else was there to learn from watching Another Hamlet but the truth is this production was different because this is a play about a man pondering a violent crime and its consequences performed by violent criminals, living out those consequences.

3 (7m 48s):
After hanging out with this group of convicted actors for six months, I did discover something. I didn't know anything about Hamlet Remember how it starts. Hamlet sees his father's ghost, who explains he was murdered by Claudius Hamlet's uncle. That goes commands Hamlet to avenge his death by killing Claudius. The play is basically Hamlet pondering this single horrific action and whether he can be the man to do it to be, or not to be these days, when people say the name Hamlet, it's usually just a metaphor shorthand for somebody who is afraid to act who did others and things too much.

3 (8m 31s):
We almost forget just what action Hamlet was contemplating. These actors haven't forgotten.

5 (8m 37s):
Well, the Johnson and 36 years old I'm here for two first degree assaults. I play ambulate when you're on stage doing Hamlet. What do you draw upon in your own experience to make the, the character

3 (8m 56s):
Come to life?

2 (8m 60s):
The idea of wanting to hurt someone. I have experienced hurting someone to, you know, to, to the point of their, you know, their life may be in danger. I was a very confused and angry person and you know, it escalated to, you know, me shooting to people and leaving them for dead.

1 (9m 42s):
My name is Chris Harris. I'm 38 years old and I play the fourth character of Hamlet.

3 (9m 50s):
Let me explain something. The character of Hamlet is played by four people. They were all onstage at the same time, taking turns, delivering the lines. Agnes did this partly to give more actors speaking roles and not saddle anyone, man, with all of that dialogue. But as theater, it works. Hamlet role is full of long silver liquids and rhetorical asides this small gang of hamlets, which mutters to itself and laughs at its own jokes. Nicely captures that fractured quality of Hamlet is different personalities. And it's also bonded the four actors together. They call themselves the hamlets and constantly talk about their character to Chris. It seems like Hamlet is just the fifth guy in their odd clique Another criminal with a complicated past.

1 (10m 32s):
Let me put it in terms of a year or two thousands of what we have as an upper middle class, a youngster, 19, 20 years old, a hu comes from a well-to-do family. You know, they own quite a bit of land. The people in the small town, respect and love him and his uncle murdered his father. And this is now married to his mother. So I mean all kinds of serious issues. There all kinds,

3 (11m 6s):
Chris and the Hamlet is practice alone. Most days, finding time when the For can just get together by themselves as tough when there's always a thousand inmates around. So they do it where they can.

1 (11m 15s):
Every Sunday, after the noon meal, the four of us will assemble. We'll have our little gray Hamlet books and we'll proceed down to the track. And if you were simply walking by what you would probably hear is you'd hear this chatter of somebody given the lines. Clearly the rest of us with our heads down in the books, walking a line. Now there are, there are people because there are benches that are all throughout the inside of the track. So there are people that actually watch us. So you'll hear this old English style speech, you know, a hold the ratio

6 (11m 54s):
Of these people who are a whole, what,

3 (12m 3s):
One of the problems of doing any play in prison is that being a good actor is the exact emotional opposite of what it takes to be a successful inmate rather than close off all feelings and look tough. You have to open your vulnerable self up and withstand off and cruel laughter. As you try to find some authentic emotion within you and this way a level four high security prison is no different from high school. And so most of the inmates who audition for Agnes tend to be, you know, accurately people, the theater types of prison back in 1999, they just had to put up with the abuse from the bigger meaner inmates. But that changed fact, a lot changed after Agnes caste, the role of Hamlet best friend.

3 (12m 43s):
Okay.

7 (12m 43s):
My name is Derrick big Hutch. I play on a ratio. They're a scholar.

3 (12m 53s):
He's surprised to learn that Derek big Hutch Hutchinson is big. He has a smooth bald skull and hooded threatening eyes. The kind of guy that if you met him, you might think he's probably serving a 120 years for armed robberies. And that would be correct. He doesn't like the rest of the cast. And he's the first person to tell you

7 (13m 12s):
Prison. You got to this hierarchy system and listen, let's compare it to the ocean. You got the minerals and you got to kill a whale minerals being a lowest killer. Where are the highs? So which are you a big Hutch? I'm the blue whale, right? That mean I control the chiller whales and I can eat up to the minerals if I want. And I mean, that's how it is. Most of the guys in Hamlet their minnows. I mean, I don't normally would associate with them.

6 (13m 50s):
He puts it the killer well versus the Guppy. So we're all guppies and he's the killer as well.

3 (13m 56s):
That's Tim who plays AUSTRAC and as a minnow slash Guppy, his take is a little different

6 (14m 2s):
Dealing with an individual like a killer. Well, a lot of it is it a lot of, even for him was a lot of show. The guy see him out in the yard. Alright. And now some of the guys have come in to Hamlet same Howey is enacting. And the seriousness that he takes is not what his persona is.

3 (14m 21s):
In other words, he's an actor, but big Hudge is also a critic. His criticism is sharp and extends to places. Most actors avoid his own character, her ratio.

7 (14m 32s):
I think he had a chunk for real. I think he had a chance on me. He pulls be cool with Hamlet and the birds friends. But the thing of Rachel was just somebody, a, a sounding board for Hamlet. I mean, a majority, his lines is a my Lord. Yes, my Lord. I mean, they were friends. We're going to communicate better than that. I mean, you go on to tell me your deepest secrets. So I want to know what you want to feel you did last night.

7 (15m 14s):
I believe they should have been a little bit. Show me that I'm truly, Hamlet a friend. Don't wait to get to the end of the eight, five, and I'm getting ready to drink a couple of calls. And then you stop me know, let me know down the line, man. Did I'm really? Your friend.

3 (15m 28s):
Have you ever heard anybody talk about Shakespeare's characters? This way? Hutch was always doing this talking tough, but then betraying a real gift for literary criticism. Call it his inner minnow. In fact, he pointed out a weakness and the structure, the story I'd never heard before in all my experience with the play that Hamlet's dilemma over killing Claudius isn't really much of a dilemma.

7 (15m 50s):
I don't see the conflict. I don't see what Hamlet is dealing with, man, that, Oh, I should kill a chain now. I shouldn't feel them now. No, you knew once your father said revenge him, you knew you was gonna do this. So what was the other bar back to it? I mean, that was the same way. I couldn't see somebody raping my daughter or something and just sitting around. No, no, no, no, no. I've got to do you mind and that's just you done. That's why I think Hamlet is old mental to mind.

3 (16m 29s):
Are there no reasons to delay taking a Swift action? Even if you're convinced that you've been wronged. I mean, that's why a stage is to play within the play, right? To make sure they Claudius is the bad guy,

7 (16m 45s):
C and D where we've got to go back. Now, if I'm a strong enough to believe in goals, then I'm strongly enough to believe what that goes to hell me, to believe you want to go. Then I'm sure you were to happen to you.

3 (17m 3s):
One side, she got on this riff. He kept going. Denmark's a prison Hamlet tells Rosenkrantz and act to us and says, you could do a version of the play that takes this central metaphor. Literally all the characters in the play are types. He sees in the yard every day. The Claudius is he'll do anything from the emblems of power, money, drugs, high end tennis shoes. Polonius is a kiss up to the powerful Rosencrantz and Guildenstern

7 (17m 29s):
Yes. And it's done. Oh man. Administration puts some guys down there just to give us a man folk. Yeah, he got you a rat.

3 (17m 40s):
And in hutches version, he solves the place. Structural problem fabricating a true dilemma for Hamlet by giving them good reasons to kill Claudius and not to kill him just the way

7 (17m 50s):
It will happen. Claudia is killed this guy here. Cause guy, he had the biggest, dope business in prison or something go to jail to be some sissy. You find them everywhere in prison. But the guy that killed B Hamlet his brother. So now being in the prison world, he must defend that on him. But he got a girl to come out and you only got five years. You know, you need to do one more.

7 (18m 32s):
They go on parole. Ya come on home. Cause I love you one and I'm not going to be on board. He got another brother in business out there that he can get with, tell, raise his status. So he got, he got all these things to look forward to on the street. But if he let the children go, he had the roughest three years of his entire life. You'll be the piss pot of the institution. So I mean, he got this dilemma. Would he be strong enough to show some fly there and get out there one day?

7 (19m 16s):
I ain't gone lie.

4 (19m 32s):
<inaudible> for the top of this one,

3 (19m 37s):
Two months after my visit with Hutch at the first read-through I was cleared once again into the old classroom, the actors tell me they've been practicing their lines wherever they can often chatting them from cell to cell. Agnes is also had local professors come in and lecture. She assigns the CAS essays to write about their characters and the Hamlet. They have been walking the track, memorizing their lines as has Danny the grave Digger, a horse, this rehearsal, they were already tinkering with a tempo and intonation that first read through. It seems like eons ago.

4 (20m 7s):
This same skull, sir was sir Yorick Scott. The King's jester This even that alas poor Yorick. I knew him ratio. He had bought me on his back a thousand times. It in my imagination, it is my God's rises. Eddie.

3 (20m 33s):
A lot of what you see, looks like any rehearsal. Agnes is taking notes. A couple of guys are reading to themselves and the occasional line reading devolves into the laughter,

4 (20m 41s):
A fight with him. This thing,

3 (20m 46s):
The scene that's really slaying everyone. Tonight is the first appearance of phosphoric. The King's toady in a year.

8 (20m 51s):
Sweet Lord. If your Lordship with leisure, how should I put a thing here from his majesty? My name is

6 (21m 4s):
Timothy Lance. I'm 38 years old and I play the role of Isaac. Isaac is what they call a fuck, which a lot of people tend to say, well, he's, you know, his it's a sexual gender thing where he is a homosexual or whatever, but he is not what he is, is a, a, a King groupie. I want to be sweet Lord. Yeah.

3 (21m 27s):
Tim was the one member of the cast with screen time, not just one second of it. You used to live in California in a Frankie Avalon and the food and a cello revival. He was in the background in one fleeting camera, pan hitting a volleyball. Tim wants ran a trucking company. Unlike most of the cast doesn't want to discuss his crime, but he does want to talk about how he researched this character and the TV room.

6 (21m 50s):
There's so many Fox and television and movies. Nathan Lane was, was a little bit too much. I think Robin Williams was a little too hyper. The one that that really stood out was a David Hyde Pierce, who is a character of Niles crane. I'd watch Frasier and kind of look at and how he did things and his mannerisms. And they worked out pretty good.

8 (22m 14s):
I mean, surfer has a weapon, but in the amputation, late on him by then and his need he's unfollowed. What's his weapon, rapier and dagger.

3 (22m 28s):
Do you think your audience is going to build to draw the vary? Is it a fine distinction you're making between a father and a gay person? Yeah, not really. <inaudible> to me, this seemed like an especially risky interpretation of the Bart, but Tim explains that folks on the outside have a TV movie understanding of prison, sexuality. There is a small group of gay prisoners in the closet. Another smaller group that is actually out. And then there's the vast majority of prisoners, straight men not having any sex at all. Just like outside tips.

8 (23m 14s):
Okay. Gentle folk. Let's refocus. We're going to start where layer cheese leaps into the grave.

3 (23m 22s):
Putting on a plane in prison is different. First Agnes always has to deal with some last minute crisis tonight. One of the hamlets can't come. He was assaulted and was placed in solitary for protection. Plus everyone must be strip searched and the side room before and after every meeting with Agnes or with me worse, it's incredibly hot. The room is stifling. The only relief is an ancient standup fan

5 (23m 46s):
In a corner. And a lot of the time the actors are just trying to figure out what their lines mean. Here's Chris. One of the hamlets,

1 (23m 53s):
There is a, a piece of dialogue. They gave a five to eight and which I'm talking to a ratio about how I got Rosencrantz and Guildenstern worse. And it starts like rash up from my cabin, see gown scarf

8 (24m 9s):
Up from my cabin, my sea gowns scarfed about me.

1 (24m 14s):
And they didn't know what that meant. One thing to Agnes will do she'll stop us and midline. This is just, what does that mean?

8 (24m 22s):
Okay. Let's go back. Okay. Remember that? What you're wrapped in is not a cloak it's fog. How do you describe it? Your sea gowns. Garbed about you're seeing now you got to do now. You got to act on it.

1 (24m 41s):
Yeah. Was a scarf about me. And as the fog come out at night and it's the flow of the words up from my cabin, see gown scarf. The about me grew up in the dark to find out the door

5 (24m 53s):
Shakespeare really put some work in the us.

1 (24m 57s):
And this was the only place I've really studied from him. But he really is good.

8 (25m 15s):
Yep.

5 (25m 17s):
After a few months, the rehearsals begin to resemble a routine. They always start with some silly voice relaxation exercises.

8 (25m 24s):
Yeah, fine.

5 (25m 32s):
The cast is such a mix. There's Chris, who is a member of Toastmasters international and we're not rehearsing likes to listen to the journey on this Walkman. All this is good pound brat. The former gang banger has a subscription to a lapidary magazine. Then there's the Edgar as a former post office employee and Mike, the fight coordinator in a devout weekend. And then Stan, who is obviously a college educated businessman. Now trying his hand at writing Zane grey westerns. And of course this Hutch, the killer whale. What keeps them coming back to D one 68, where Agnes this tiny, tough lady bosses them around. Here's that girl.

1 (26m 7s):
She makes us feel human man. She really does. When I go on there, they have to take my clothes off and get butt-naked and bend over and spread my cheeks as a man to look up my butt. You know, a lot of the DME, the humiliating things that they do to us here. And when she comes in and does what she does for that minute, the two and a half hours on all of these guys with PhDs and <inaudible>, and it can be doing other things. They come in at least can feel human

5 (26m 41s):
In here.

6 (26m 45s):
I think this is taking me to being saying For just one day. It's just one day, I'm saying enough, you know,

3 (26m 53s):
This is Brent Jones, another one of the hamlets.

6 (26m 56s):
If you want to keep exercising your mind, then you started to lose it, right. Is that as possible? Right? This gives me opportunity to see a, a society behind what I'm used to. I'm familiar with rap music and videos and bit buts on the TV and all that. But let me come back to something that I'm not familiar with. And let me get into something else that opened, that did open my eyes until they get into reading Sylvia, Platt, and frost and, and wise word from different other people.

3 (27m 35s):
And everybody had powerful answers for why they were on the play. One guy with a third grade education level said that he was surprised to find out that he wasn't stupid, just an educated and for almost all of them acting was beside the point. One inmate got bit by the drama bug and a bit hard. His first step onto the boards was a revelation.

9 (27m 55s):
I'm James word. I'm 32 years old. And I play the role of liberties. My wife told me that I should be an actor and she's like, you can act, you should be an actor. She's had the opportunity to see me deal with certain people on certain levels and see, seen me change my certain people on certain levels. Okay, come on. Let's let's. As we say on the, on the editorial business, let's air that out a little bit. Well, I've always want it to be a con and I've always wanted people to like me. I wanted to be liked.

9 (28m 36s):
And the environment that I was in people liked the bad guy. You know, those are the heroes in the, in our neighborhood's the bad guy. And so I went from this real quiet church guy to this real bad guy, you know, and I get around them and I'll be like, yeah, this and that. You know? And, and what acted, you know what I'm saying? Act big, bad, tough. And I don't care when that really wasn't me because when I went home at night, I felt bad about what I did. And most of the time was scared to death doing what I was doing. And my wife saw that, you know, and that's why I think that's one of the reasons why she's like, you can be an actor,

3 (29m 25s):
James, where it looks like an actor he's young and handsome with a smile that can carry him through just about any situation. He plays layer. He's the brother of Ophelia for the first few acts layer T's was played by an Amish pedophile. That's another story. But the Amish pedophile got transferred and it's almost legend in the prison. Now, like something out of 42nd street, james' words, Steph into the role. He created a sensation among the cast. When they realized what a really forceful performance could do for a character word, made a lasting impression. Even on the killer whale,

7 (29m 57s):
You come along in a For and you get this guy, James word and word is playing Larry. He was, he was hitting it, especially when he was more than the devil failure is the same For. So he makes his interest and he's been to be up to the King and the queen stop, hold up. And man, you should've seen this guy, a word, man. He come in there like dropped to his knees and eat that. Wow. Wow. I say, man, that should've been my part there

9 (30m 36s):
Knew I had done a good job. You know, I did, I knew I had done a good job, but when it was over, you know, and everybody was leaving and shaking hands and interacting with each other, the comments that was coming afterwards, you know, we had our questions and answers and you know, so many people was a man. You were so good. Have you done this before? You should do this more. You should continue this. You know, and that feeling for me was just, it was one of the best feelings I've ever felt. It was like the, it was like the day my daughter was born and it made me want to be better, not just in acting.

9 (31m 19s):
I mean, it just opened up a whole world for me, you know, like, man, if I apply myself, you know, I can pretty much do whatever I want. <inaudible> Oh, treble won't fall 10 times troubled on their cursing head who is wicked deed by most ingenious since deprived the now how your dust-up on the Quicken dead. Instead of this flat on a mountain you have made to overtop old Pelion or the sky has head of blue Olympus.

3 (32m 1s):
The first chance I get the C word in action is that tonight's rehearsal where layer he's goes to the grave of the sister. Ophelia word was a natural and talked about acting that way to layer T's emotions and the final act rollercoaster from grief to fury to shameful regret, pull it off. We're a channel's layer T's character in a way that should make any method. Actor cringe with jealousy

9 (32m 22s):
Coming into act For he was very angry, violently angry, and I can identify with that and I can play that role very well because I've been playing that role all my life and mustard no more to be done, no more, be done, layering the earth and from her fare. And I'm polluted this spring. I tell old Charlie's priest, our ministry, an angel sent my sister to be wind howling. And he falls into the manipulation and he becomes a bad guy for a little while because he's

10 (32m 55s):
Being deceitful now, you know, I never really did

9 (32m 59s):
Look at it and it's somewhat cowardly and I can relate that to my past life. As a criminal, put a gun in somebody's face. That's an unfair advantage, you know? So, and that's a cowardly act. That's what criminals are. We're cowards. You know, when we are criminals, we are a college. Do you feel like you can be?

5 (33m 27s):
Our team is because so much of layer tease is inside. james' work.

9 (33m 36s):
I am there teas. I am. I am coming up with the ghost of Hamlet's father can teach you about murder in a minute.

5 (33m 55s):
The public radio, when our program continues it's This American Life am Myra glass. If you're just tuning in what we're doing today is that we're devoting our whole show to Jack Hitt story from the Missouri Eastern correctional center, wherever the course of six months, Jack watch prisoners rehearse and stage act five of Hamlet. Again, here's Jack as the performance state grew closer and I spoke to more and more of the actors. It became clear that each actor used his past and then psychological ways to understand this part. All the Hamlet saw themselves and their version of the Dane and Edgar would stop me in the hall to tell me that he thought evil King Claudius had some redeeming qualities, but for one actor, the relationship was even more complicated.

5 (34m 41s):
He used his part to help understand his past money.

10 (34m 44s):
My name is Danny Waller. I'm 44 years old. The character that I've played was the ghost of Hamlet's father. The reason I chose that when I first read the script, the words jumped out at me and they made me feel things that I haven't felt before.

5 (35m 13s):
What, in your, what in your experience drew you to those particular words?

10 (35m 21s):
I took the man's life and I felt he was talking to me through that, that he, he wanted me to know what I put him through.

4 (35m 41s):
I am my father's spirit doomed for a certain term to walk the night and for the day confined the fast in fires until the foul crime's done on my days of nature of burnt purged away. But that I am forbid to tell you the secrets of my prison house. I could a tale unfold, who is the lightest words would Horrow up that soul freeze the young blood and make that two eyes like stars start from their spheres. There was one other spot that goes like this. Thus, was I sleeping by a brother's hand of Life of crown of queen and wants dispatched cut off even in the blossoms and my sin, no reckoning made, but set to my account with all of my imperfections on my head.

4 (36m 33s):
And it was pretty much the same way with him. He, he was, he was taken before his time.

5 (36m 49s):
And so when you, when you read the character, are you, do you feel like who is talking when you say those lines?

4 (36m 57s):
Hm I'm I'm the body up there, but the words are coming from mostly William pride. The, the man that I killed, he he's, he's mostly the one talking <inaudible>, there's not much defense between the actor and the word.

4 (37m 42s):
As you get with an actor who puts his or her training between the two, these guys call it, like they see it. And it's true. It's just dead true.

5 (37m 54s):
That's Agnes the director besides putting on plays at the Missouri Eastern correctional center, visiting a room she's mounted shows. I'm more familiar stages. The acclaimed actor studio in New York, the Berkshire festival in Stockbridge and the Eugene O'Neill theater center in Connecticut after becoming the artistic director of the new theater in St. Louis, she started an outreach program to take professional actors doing dramatic works by writers like Don DeLillo and perform them before prison audiences. In time, the prisoners became the actors and did more time on this side project took over her entire theater company. Now this is what she does directing prisoners who may not have the chops of professional actors, but have an intimacy with the, that doesn't

10 (38m 36s):
Exist anywhere

4 (38m 37s):
Else. When Claudius is in the chapel and speaks about his sin and his regret and his ability to undo it, it broke my heart because the man playing, it felt all of those things fully. And you know, I know these guys have deep regrets, but it was palpable. The audience was stunned. You could hear a pin drop. And that was especially true with the inmate audience.

4 (39m 19s):
He says, Oh, my offense is rank. It smells to heaven. It hath the primal eldest curse upon a brother's murder or brother's murder. Pray. Can I not,

10 (39m 32s):
I not the Winkler nation B show up as well. My stronger guilt defeats my strong intent. What if this curse in hand with a thicker than itself, the brother's blood is there not rain enough in a sweet heaven's to wash it white as snow? My name is ed Gribbins and a 49 years old. And I played the King King Claudius in Hamlet and Lac a man to double business bound. I stand in Paul's. Why should a first begin in both neglect? I don't consider myself no great actor, but I try to do the best I can.

10 (40m 12s):
And when I did the speech, I was looking upward. The chapel is at an incline there, and I was just looking up toward a topic and it's like, no one was there, but me, I literally, I honestly didn't see a soul in a chapel when I was saying

4 (40m 29s):
This maybe

10 (40m 32s):
Even. And I'm just, you know, I'm not saying this is what it seemed almost like I was playing this actual speak to God, but, or one form of prayer can serve my turn. Forgive me my file murder. That cannot be since I'm still possessed to those effects for which I did the murder, my crown, my own ambition. And my queen. I have a wife and four kids. And by being incarcerated, I felt that I've really let them down.

10 (41m 15s):
What reds, when I said that speech and my wife was here and the visiting room, I don't know if it had impact on her. I don't even know if she truly understood all of the content, but yeah. What can I wanted her? They hear that speech more than anybody. Oh, a wretched state. Oh, bosom black is dead. Oh, Lammot souls struggling to be free, are more engaged. Help angels make assay. Bow stubborn. Ne and hearts was being a steel. Be Sophos C use of a newborn Bay all may be well,

3 (42m 10s):
Edgar wouldn't tell me as a crime. Although I found myself playing a constant guessing game with all of them about this, they wouldn't discuss the past. That was them. They said, this is now, but I had to know. So one morning, instead of visiting, I went to downtown St. Louis, not far from the arch and sat in our records, depository, reading, old case files. It was more horrible than I thought. One guy particularly liked shot a man in the head twice. The point blank range. Another of my new friends raped his pubescent daughter impregnating her later. There was an abortion. Another friend grabbed a man getting out of a car, put a gun to his chest during a robbery and pulled the trigger.

3 (42m 51s):
Others had side of my children, younger children, the age of my own children. I didn't fall asleep for a long time. And my frigid Ramada in the room at three in the morning, I had one of those cinematic nightmares. I dreamed at a very good friend of mine. An editor at a magazine had me over to dinner. She got angry with someone else. There pulled out a gun and plugged them twice, right in the face. Then she asked me to not to talk about it with anybody I panicked. And the next thing I knew, I was sitting up in my hotel bed, panting like a sprinter. It didn't take Freud to figure out what it meant. Someone I knew and liked was a murderer. I wanted to talk to the cast about this, but I was anxious.

3 (43m 31s):
I know this sounds crazy, but I was afraid I might hurt their feelings. I felt like they had betrayed me, but strangely I felt that I had betrayed them to, there was only one day left to talk just before the final performance. So before curtain, I asked Brett to sit down with me. I could barely spit out my question. You know, we came in here three months ago or five months ago, I met y'all for the first time. This is actors. And so yesterday we decided to go down to the city hall and read everybody's record. And so we read everybody's record. And, and I have to say, since we met, you know, since I met you as an actor first, and now I know what you did.

3 (44m 14s):
It's, it's very hard for me to wrap my mind around this other guy. It's on paper. And so I want to know how you do it. How do you square the, the brat Jones of what it was at 13 years ago? Yeah. Yeah, but the one that I see on the stage tonight,

10 (44m 36s):
It's taken a lot of practice and trying to discover who I am now. It's not been easy. I was offering to the drugs and all those things when I got locked up for the case and I slowly had to come out to those things, because I always knew in the back of my mind that I already went to the lowest point in life. So now it was time to see what I could do as far as going in to the highest point in life.

3 (45m 3s):
It was a hard question for any of them to answer. They all send the same thing, but I'm this guy now I'm not that guy. Are we forever the prisoner of our actions? That's a good question. He was Hamlet question. And it's the unresolvable conflict in our penal system. Why did we put people in jail to rehabilitate them and restore them to our company or to punish them? Regardless of how much they might change one can't hold both these ideas in one's mind simultaneously. That's why our prison debate's on TV and in Congress. So vehement and incoherent, the two sides can not be squared by mere politics. They can't even be squared by the people at the center. The debate here's Danny.

10 (45m 45s):
When I, when I first got the sentence, I said, yeah, I I'll, I'll go ahead and just die in here. Cause I don't deserve to be out there the way I am. You know, that was 13, 14 years ago. And, but a person changes and I'm no longer the criminal I used to be. I know that I will not do any other crimes out there, but I took the man's life. Do I deserve to be out there?

10 (46m 25s):
I cannot say Hamlet no medicine in the world can do the good and V is not an half an hour's. Life no medicine to work at, blah, blah, blah. I can't get it. I forgot what

3 (47m 3s):
It's opening night dress rehearsal, where it is flubbed his line. Again, things aren't going well. The only time the authorities would allow a dress rehearsal is in the hour before actual curtain. This is the first time the cast is seen the acting stage. The first time in costume, the first time they have real prompts, skulls and shovels. The shovel is a story in itself. Given every prison fair of shovels, you can use them to dig tunnels. Remember the authorities insisted using only a flimsy cardboard, replica. Everyone is tense. Even Agnes

8 (47m 35s):
Let's double the pace so we can get through. This get it all on. The side is dismal

2 (47m 43s):
And our fares

3 (47m 45s):
We're in the prison chapel where the first performance will be held before an audience of inmates. Six months after my first visit, it is a blast. Showtime armed guards. Let the audience in the door. One by one. Agnes calls our actors together and a corner and gives them the final pitch.

8 (48m 3s):
Paul Edgar, could I have you

2 (48m 7s):
Okay.

8 (48m 11s):
Things to think about, make sure to stand still on yours and other people's punchlines. If something falls apart, pick it up, go somewhere with it, make up words. I don't think anybody here is memorized it. So we're safe. And mostly this afternoon, people were working so hard. I don't think he had much fun, hard works behind us. This is the night to just have a blast for the team. One for the team.

3 (48m 54s):
Once the play starts, Danny and Stan deliver their lines. Okay? But all that antique Elizabeth and wordplay, isn't connecting with the audience, but then mid-way through the scene. The crowd starts to really respond to the emotion that Ophelia's funeral, March layer teases, the last mourner humming at the side of the grave, tossing Rose pedals on our courts right away, the action picks up the hamlets appear taunting. They are tease about the sincerity of his grief, the quarrel and exchange insults a duel is proposed, which culminates in the last sword fight scene.

2 (49m 26s):
<inaudible>

3 (49m 36s):
Most directors, blacks is seen as a professional fencing match. Agnes has, it looks like a knife fight in an alley. The audience totally gets it where it holds his arms slightly up from his sides. His hand gripping his sword. Like you would a Shiv. He and one of the hamlets are circling each other like thugs We're jerks has shoulders forward, a pure back alley, faint, a fake movement to intimidate his opponent. Something all of them had probably seen right in the yard

2 (50m 6s):
<inaudible>

3 (50m 15s):
Then the room goes quiet. Cause the actor starts slicing one another leading to Liberty's death scene.

2 (50m 24s):
Hamlet no medicine and the world can do the good and the it's not a half from now was life. The treacherous. This is in your hair and braided and the environment, the foul practice start to fall on me. No, I never to rise again is forgiveness with me not Hamlet but mine, my father is the one thing.

3 (51m 12s):
The audience like a living thing leans forward in unison to watch words, slide down in the chapel wall and die. There are no cackles of discomfort, no shouts from the gallery, just breathless silence, the silence of recognition And all there were three performances. And on the final night before family and dignitaries, the entire cast found the magic that Paul said, what happened during that first read through the actors knew that this would be the last time they get to perform as a group. So when Danny and Stan came out for their final grave, Digger appearance, somehow those Elizabethan jokes worked.

2 (51m 57s):
This picture says, add a date.

3 (52m 2s):
Having seen every performance, I can testify. The actors Rose above their talents in that last show. Mike and Hudson, as the belligerent priests buck and Tommy is the ambassadors Sylvester's Fort and bras. You could feel the mutual support just as misaligns and other mistakes. Play off one another and can spiral downward into a fiasco. The rhythm of the room can go the other way too strong lines to get better performances. The gang of Hamlet came together in a way that they hadn't before that little mob seems like one voice put the real surprise from me that last night was Hutch

4 (52m 37s):
A lot more than antique Roman during the day, there's still yet some liquor left

3 (52m 41s):
It's here that hutches her ratio delivers his most famous line. The play is almost Over. He is surrounded by corpses and speaks to his dying friend Hamlet and the other performances. I always thought Hutch had been played by what you might call the Jack Nicholson syndrome. The actor's persona is bigger than any role they might play, but tonight ratio has Hutch under control and the audience in his hand, he has the one great line to deliver and to such might say he nails it

4 (53m 8s):
Now the cracks. So the noble heart, good night, sweet press and flights, the angel, and seeing the two that rests.

3 (53m 23s):
So Hamlet dies and Fort and takes over. And then the drums of Hamlet funeral begin on other stages or a curtain would fall. But here beneath the cafeteria is unforgiving fluorescence. The actors just stop from the back of the room. Agnes says simply

2 (53m 41s):
<inaudible>

3 (53m 53s):
The audience. Tonight is a mix of St. Louis is artistic elite. It's a theater crowd, polite well dressed. People. Many of them have helped fund this production. They want and fully expect to meet the talent afterwards. And from any of the actors this moment they call it. The cast party is the most prized James Ward and Edgar Evans mentioned it specifically. When I talked to them, just the chance to stand around in a room full of normal people drink a Coke carry on about the play, the future, the weather, the freedom to chat and mingle like you were in the lobby of a theater instead of a Bulletproof visiting room.

2 (54m 27s):
<inaudible> and we thank you. Thank you very much.

3 (54m 37s):
High security prison though. When a plane is over, it's over, no sooner had the bows finished. And Danny who doubles is a stage manager turns right around and starts frantically striking the CET. The guards had informed everyone, but they'd have about 10 minutes for the cast party. Like any play. All the work was from this moment to get to the end of the last performance successfully. And now that it's here, these few minutes are shot through with a kind of melancholy. Soon, everything will end and everyone will return to is predicting. Life here. That near future is a visible in the side room. Everyone sees him is the guard waiting to strip search them back into the yard. He wears the Dell expression on his face and rubber gloves on his hands, but that would be 10 minutes from now.

3 (55m 23s):
There's still time for pretending.

2 (55m 25s):
Thank you, sir. Thanks for coming out. Appreciate the support. I really liked this act. They were so complicated.

3 (55m 33s):
According to the prison commissioner, 97% of the people locked up today will someday join us on the outside. Manwell is leaving for a halfway house in 48 hours. He could have been a week before, but chose to stay in prison so he could finish the play. Hutch has a scheduled date for release. And a few more of the cast has have parole board hearings coming up to decide whether they've changed enough and should be allowed to mingle with us on the outside. To that extent this whole night, including the cast party is just another rehearsal.

2 (56m 3s):
Thanks for coming. Jack Hitt is a long time contributor to our show. Since we first heard this program back in 2000, most of the actors

0 (56m 24s):
Had been released from prison in 2017. When we last reran this program at garb to play Cardenas was the chief union steward at a hospital. Big Hutch was working in public transit. James who played layer Ts was starting a youth drum program in St. Louis. Tim moved to Hollywood to produce his own screenplays. Manuel died in a car crash in 2008. Danny, the guy who talked about speaking as the man he killed was still serving time. Agnes Wilcox, the woman who ran that program, she died in 2017 by the organization that she created prison, performing arts. It's still out there. It's still going strong back. When we last rerun the show, Chris was working there. Chris Edgar and Brad were acting in their alumni theater program.

0 (57m 7s):
If you're curious, you can learn more about them at prison. Performing arts.org is episode of our program is produced by Alex Bloomberg with StarLeaf kind Wendy Dorr, Jonathan Goldstein, and me as a senior producer for this episode was Julie Snyder. Our technical director for our show is Matt Tierney production help with today's show from Diane Wu, a special thanks today to Eugene Stabelfeld Dale glass avatar productions, Timken East commissioner Krippner John future, Laura Mueller, Terrance Nappamerri our truck, our website This American life.org. Thanks as always to our programs. Co-founder Mr. Tory Maltia or as we like to call on Shamu back control the chiller wheels, and I can eat up minerals. If I want I'm here for a glass back next week with more stories of This American Life.