1 (1s):
Support for This American Life comes from quip. One of the first electric toothbrushes accepted by the American Dental Association quip has a built-in two-minute timer that pulses every 30 seconds to remind you to switch sides and Sonic vibrations for healthier gums. Go to get quip.com / American and get your first refill pack for free and from State Farm The Helpful Folks at State Farm are there for you on those days when it feels like problem. Just pop out of nowhere for auto and home insurance State Farm agents are ready to help find one at statefarm.com. So many of us we wander through this country.

1 (43s):
We wanted to through our lives. We wander in darkness often. We feel lost like Chris use doing pretty bad way living on the street here to his shoulders. I called it the Unabomber look. Yeah. I was just living in the woods. Yeah. I just did open wooded area at the corner of upon drive and Route 347 and I had had fresh clothes on usually but I only could do the wash, you know every so often and they were outside. So I smelled like The Great Outdoors whether I like that fact or not and I very much know I needed medical

2 (1m 18s):
help.

1 (1m 25s):
So Chris needed this medical help. But of course, he had no money to pay for the medical help. You made it money collecting cans and bottles on the street whenever it go to doctors or social services. He was so whacked out looking that they wouldn't even talk to him like a person. It wouldn't even look him in the eye. Hell of a thing, isn't it wanting eye contact not getting it but then if you're lucky somebody puts up the

2 (1m 48s):
lights.

1 (1m 52s):
Welcome WBEZ Chicago. It's American life and Ira Glass our program today recorded on a live tour of five cities, Boston, Washington, DC, Portland, Oregon Denver and our Hometown Chicago. So Chris is stuck. He needed money to go to a doctor

2 (2m 16s):
and then he got this

1 (2m 17s):
idea. He remembered how a couple of years before that. He had wandered off the street into a I think my to get warm and they're the state of New York had set up to laptop computers on a folding table and to see the lady just look at me not her head and smile when I walked up to the booth. Like I was just one of anybody was was great. So he sits down at the computers and on these two computers. You could look up your name and see whether the state was holding money for you that you did not know about and there was all sorts of money utility bill refunds tax refunds lost checks out to all sorts of people and institutions lost money.

1 (2m 57s):
We're not even lost its most people didn't even know it was missing. This is like money in purgatory. This is money and win bow. And thinking about all this Crystal will realize how he could pay for his doctors. He would look online find money of their is that they did not know about money. The state was holding for them

2 (3m 18s):
and then he would present that to

1 (3m 19s):
them. Well, I was hoping that I would suddenly get a couple of phone calls and a couple of checks and people would say, oh wow. Thanks for having having done this and then I was hoping that these doctors would just even talk to me in a It's a civil matter and then work my way up from there. Now the crucial fact that I have to tell you about Chris Sewell at this point in the story is Chris is great at finding other people's money in these databases on the internet and when he looked for money for the doctors at his local University Hospital not only did he find hundreds hundreds of unclaimed Blue Cross Blue Shield checks reimbursements lost trust fund checks.

1 (4m 3s):
He also found a hundred checks that were owed to the hospital itself was a huge victory. But when he went to the hospital to tell the doctors there that there was this money out there for him. He always got the same reaction. That was it was a total. It was a total wall of Silence except for the people who were telling me to buzz off. Yeah. I actually went out and I printed out the claim forms and and cover letter forward and tried in my own humble fashion to appear professional. I went to the Salvation Army while myself a blue pinstripe suit. Wow, even with my long hair and my beard and went around and hand delivered all of them and had that work. That was the one that didn't work. I think it responses, but there was no conversation. Action as soon as I talked security people just you know up here out of the woodwork.

1 (4m 47s):
He tried letters. He tried emailing everybody just thought it was a scam eventually. He got doctors to help him out through other means and then he turned this Talent elsewhere. He used it wherever and whenever he could when his local public TV station was during the pledge drive. He couldn't actually give money of course, but he looked online and found a thousand dollars or there's

2 (5m 10s):
call them up.

1 (5m 12s):
It's setting up this interview for our radio show. He was talking to one of our producers on the phone Joey Snyder and while he's on the phone with her, he found 400 bucks. So to WBEZ

2 (5m 22s):
radio station where we work. And

1 (5m 26s):
using nothing more than a normal internet connection. He found six hundred ten thousand nine hundred forty dollars owed to the city of New York so much money that the city comptroller honored him with an old-fashioned letter of commendation who knew that that was a real thing and not just something that Commissioner Gordon would give the Batman now and then at a press conference It's impossible to overstate what that meant to him that press conference. I was extremely nervous and they were big security lines. And I finally got there and walked into a room full of TV cameras and I don't think I'd spoken to anybody before the for like in like two weeks writing spoken with anybody at all for two weeks or two weeks right now to conversation with another person.

1 (6m 15s):
Yeah, I I'm again. I don't have a lot of friends where I live. I'm you know, trying to just reach out in the middle of a social void is very difficult. I mean on the street, I think I think my record one time was I don't think I'd spoken to anybody for something like three months and I just Try to put on party face and and soak it all in and radiate it back as best I could. city council actually recognized me I feel like I've somehow helped create a paradise for myself and society that I'm somehow a little less lost.

1 (6m 56s):
I'm creating a purpose for my own life in a

2 (6m 58s):
direction.

1 (7m 3s):
I program today lost in America stories of people who are lost and are they sometimes temporarily if they're lucky get found on a program today surovell finds a terrorist hiding and lost in a patriotic song Jonathan Goldstein tries to lose something and finds it. It's harder than it seems

2 (7m 21s):
and there is an entire

1 (7m 22s):
magazine devoted to writing the people have lost dropped thrown away and tried to destroy its creator read samples on stage plus John line for the mekons the band. OK Go and more stay with

2 (7m 35s):
us. Okay, this is I wrote

1 (7m 43s):
speaking to you from the studio of today's show is a favorite show, but it is a rerun from many many years ago and it you're going to catch a few dated references like to politics at the time and we start with Act One losing it. Well, if you're gonna do it program about people who are lost you pretty much have to do a story about adolescence. Jonathan Goldstein is a regular contributor to our show quick warning before we begin for parents listening with kids. He talks about sex in this story, please welcome. Goldstein dying a virgin happen to people Hans Christian Andersen Queen Elizabeth the first my grandmother's prophetically name brother Uncle Hyman.

1 (8m 40s):
And I knew it was the kind of thing that could happen to me days would turn into months months into years and eventually I would drop dead in a man's hotel and be buried sexless in a single cemetery plot squeezed in on my side between my parents. And so I began at an early age what I thought of as my life's work the work of not dying a

2 (9m 4s):
virgin

1 (9m 7s):
at 10. I met vered my first crush. He was in from Israel with her family and was staying with our neighbors since this was the summer grease came out. I invited verret upstairs to our living room where I played the soundtrack on our stereo while it played I danced for her. My feeling was that you had to give girls everything you had your Showmanship your best moves even your dignity. As the music played vered sat there with quiet indifference at one point. I tried to bring her soul to Life by lying down on our coffee table and spinning around on my stomach like a spastic lazy Susan.

1 (9m 48s):
when I did the splits I fell to the ground with a ferocity that almost tore my scrotal Sac into before vered went back to Israel. I handed her all ten. Archie digests that I own. I stacked them. So all the spines lined up perfectly. I wanted them to look solemn and substantial like a package wrapped in rope from the old country. It's how I feel about you. I wanted to say but her English was not good enough to understand for the next several years. I would say some variation of these words too many different people but no one's English was ever good enough to understand at the age of 13.

1 (10m 32s):
I entered the service industry the self service industry. I spent all of my time listening to music like yellow while fantasizing about the high school gym teacher playing tetherball in her brassiere or Stevie Nicks strumming a guitar in her brassiere. Or in my darker moments Golda Meir ruling a nation in her brassiere. And then at 14 our family got one of those early model elephantine video machines. I rented early 80s teen sex comedies like private lessons private school for girls and reform school girl.

1 (11m 19s):
I would make each 22nd shower scene last anywhere from six to seven hours pause rewind frame Advance became my version of the Holy Trinity one time having lost the remote control to RVC. Are I watched the entirety of sorority girls on vacation lying on the basement floor with the VCR on my chest hitting its buttons like a 70-pound accordion? It was around that time inspired by a potent cocktail of sexual desperation and movie starring Phoebe Cates that I left the comfort of home for the streets a 4-foot 10-inch pheromone drenched Cabbage Patch doll with acne on the prowl and thus at 16.

1 (12m 5s):
I met Tamara everyone had a locker partner at our school and I shared mine with Tamara. Just knowing that no matter what our winter boots were alone in the dark together for six hours a day was enough to make me feel at least it's something Life was going all right. One day I finally worked up the courage to ask her if she wanted to see the rhythmics concert with me because I knew she was a big fan and she said yes. I don't know where I came up with the idea, but I had decided at some point during the concert that I wanted to hold Tamara from behind and sway with her back and forth to the music. It was all I could think about all night. It wasn't a kiss or a held hand. I was after but something else something less definable.

1 (12m 47s):
It was like I wanted to prove that I could get us into some kind of GrooVe finally during a slow song I snuck up behind her and put my sweaty pocket hands on her hips. I tried to ease us into it. My movements were halted and completely non-musical rather than dancing. It looked like I was trying to hoist a resistant woman into a mailbox while in the throes of a painful piles attack Tamara freed herself and for the rest of the evening. She was afraid to come near me. At home that night. I ate a bowl of Cold Cereal while staring at a bottle of my mother's nail polish on the kitchen counter carefully.

1 (13m 28s):
I painted my nails in bed. My finger spider walk the length of my ribs. Quit tickling me. I told

2 (13m 36s):
myself.

1 (13m 40s):
I have to make this an early night. I grabbed my hand and flung it away from myself, roughly. But it always crept back. If early 80s teen sex comedy has had taught me anything which Unfortunately they had in abundance. It was that college was going to be a Non-Stop mookey Fest. I wasn't fat enough to be the one who sees undressing Sorority Girl shortly before falling backwards from a ladder nor was I daring enough to have sex with a friend's mom nor was I near-sighted and good enough at science to create a fellatio bot.

1 (14m 22s):
But I did know that I was the nice guy the one that drove everyone around on their way to getting action and that before the credits world. I would receive my do. It was only right. Well, the credited rolled the curtain had come down. There was a man sweeping up popcorn and still no do for winter break my friend Howard and I decided to spend the week in New York City as we rode the train there. We passed a burned-out school bus in a field and I thought yes, that is my heart. My heart is a burned-out school bus with no windows sitting in the middle of nowhere. But then after about 15 minutes to train past the little gray wooden control Booth the door flung wide open and I thought know that that is my heart.

1 (15m 8s):
The train continued along through February fields, and I look for more things to call my heart. A rusty Bridge a chopped down Evergreen a discarded can of Mountain Dew it turned out. My heart was everywhere that winter month. We stayed with Howard's aunt in Flushing and every night. We would go to the local bar and take pictures of ourselves scribbling in our notebooks are face is illuminated by the neon jukebox. It was at that bar that we met a 25 year old Venezuelan Furniture salesman named Jose Howard. And I thought Jose was the coolest. Well, we drank our rum and Coca-Cola has Jose Tranquility Caesars something we considered very sophisticated sort of like drinking a salad.

1 (15m 52s):
Howard explain his Dilemma to Jose and I explained mine Howard had had cancer when he was 16 and was concerned. He wouldn't ever be able to produce semen and have children. I explained that I had grown weary of being a virgin and really really wanted to see naked chimichangas. Jose furrowed his brow and listen to our problems with concern then he said he was taking us to a whorehouse I cotton to the idea of a whorehouse by telling myself that it was very old school very Neil Simon or Burt Reynolds or something. It was probably how my father and his father before him did it. I imagine my grandfather had lost his virginity to a kind-hearted Madam who after the deed had cooked him a brisket.

1 (16m 43s):
Jose took us to an apartment above a fruit store in Spanish Harlem where we were invited in by a small older Latino man wearing a shoulder holster Jose told us not to worry that this is how things were done. We were Seated on a couch facing an East Indian man. And what appeared to be his two teenage Sons. There are three women dress tonight. He's who walked by carrying balled-up faded linen and punch full-sized metal basins with soapy sponges. It was after seeing the basins that I realized. I would never be able to pull this off. There was something to Medicinal in matter of fact about the whole thing. Not only that but I was terrified sex was one thing. But if I was going to be getting naked on a strange bed with sheets that were dubious at least wanted to be with someone who mildly like me and that of course is something impossible to gauge when the exchange of Canadian traveler's checks is involved.

1 (17m 33s):
I told Jose I would sit this one out Howard on the other hand was raring to go a woman came over to him and introduced herself as Crystal Howard introduced himself as mr. Cohen offski, which was the name of our great seven math

2 (17m 45s):
teacher Crystal took

1 (17m 48s):
Howard by the hand and led him into a room. Each person. Got 20 minutes Howard remained in the room with Crystal 440. The Indian man sitting opposite me kept pointing to his watch while smiling and winking. There's nothing that makes you think about dying a virgin more than sitting on a couch in a whorehouse waiting for your best friend to finish having

2 (18m 8s):
sex

1 (18m 12s):
that couch just then felt like the loneliest place on Earth. As it turned out crystal saw Howard Scar and they spent most of their time together talking about what it was like to have had cancer Crystal had lost her brother to leukemia several years earlier. She told Howard that when her and her brother were kids. They poke toothpicks into bubblegum, which they ate like hors d'oeuvres. She told Howard that she missed her brother very much. On the walk back to the subway. I lagged behind Howard just watching him eventually. We asked how it how it was with Crystal and he said that it was different than he thought it would be and Jose told him he was being too emotional. What I hadn't taken into account was that before you lose something in this case the albatross have one's virginity.

1 (18m 56s):
You have to first find something to enable that loss. At 18 sort of by accident. I found delete her name meant Little Wave and when we kissed it was like a little wave of blood was sweeping through my chest. We kissed long and hard Our Eyes Wide Open deletes face was always sad. I told her she had a friend that lit up a room. Delete would be the first person. I'd ever sleep with yet losing my virginity with her even just after it happened was something I can never remember I could still recall what her breath smelt like after she had eaten chocolate how she would almost cry when she saw a little boys with big glasses. I remember a thousand other small things to get our first time together this thing that I had waited forever to happen to lose your virginity.

1 (19m 42s):
I had waited forever to lose was completely and utterly lost to me. I'm not sure. I understand why this is maybe when you're coming towards it. It looks so big and all eclipsing. It looks like the Finish Line you imagine champagne well-wishers certificates of Merit, then you reach it and pass it and you understand it's only the entry point to a lot of other worries worries that proved to be much more measurable and complicated my fear of losing. My virginity was nothing compared to my fear of losing. Delete. I could never fathom how she could love me. And so I tested her love all the time. Let's say I smashed your car I said.

1 (20m 23s):
Then I'd kill you. She said but you'd still love me. I guess so she said Before I met Khalid, I called myself a virgin. It was very clear and definite a virgin. Now there is no name for what I am. But I'm sort of partial to Leroy.

2 (20m 45s):
Thanks. Jonathan Goldstein

1 (20m 55s):
Jonathan's next book which is working on right now is a rewrite of the

2 (20m 58s):
Bible.

1 (21m 13s):
Well, it's tough to have a crush when the boy doesn't feel the same way. I do. Yeah, it's tough to have a crush when your best friend breaks the perhaps you'll find me feeling better and the day I die. But it's tough to have a crush on you.

2 (21m 53s):
Well, that's true. But it's time to Crunch. Yes. Yes. You okay?

1 (22m 40s):
I do teach you hit me with a ruler can a song have skeletons in his closet for this next X are eval decided to excavate the Lost Mongrel past of a patriotic song that I am sure, you know, that sounds good. I definitely had its wild party years before it settled down into the sort of thing that is played now at the White House, please welcome

2 (23m 2s):
Sarah Val. At the memorial service at the National Cathedral on September 14th, 2001 those gathered in the pews to mourn the more than 2,800 people who were murdered by terrorists three days before saying The Battle Hymn of the Republic have seen the glory of the coming of the Lord. He is trampling out the Vintage where The Grapes of Wrath are stored. He have loosed the Fateful.

2 (23m 43s):
Lightning of his terrible Swift sword. His truth is marching on. President Bush saying it ex presidents Clinton Carter and Bush sang it washing it on television in New York City. I sang it and across the sea at another service in another church Queen Elizabeth sang it with tears in her English eyes having sung the song 36 years earlier at the funeral of Winston Churchill as Churchill himself had sung it along with FDR on the White House lawn in 1943, because that's when we sing The Battle Hymn of the Republic at War.

2 (24m 23s):
And funerals so the battle him was doubly appropriate on September 14th. It was a funeral we were at War and yet there we were we gathered Americans Her Majesty the queen chanting this beloved Battle Cry at the terrorists of the world and buried inside The Melody of the song was the rotting corpse of an American Terrorist. Here are the lyrics that used to go to that tune back in 1860 lyrics that honor the terrorists as a hero John Brown's Body lies a moldering in the glaive. John Brown's Body lies of oldrin in the grave jump Brown's Body lies a molding in the grave.

2 (25m 6s):
His soul goes my channel. I don't throw around the word terrorist lightly. But if it's John Brown Brown a white man who hated slavery so much that even his friend the famed abolitionist and former slave Frederick Douglass. Wish Brown would shut up about it every now and then back in 1856 Brown and his men massacred five pro-slavery settlers from the south near Pottawatomie Creek Kansas dragging them from their homes as their wives and Children looked Screaming they hack to them up with knives though Brown shot one man's mangled body in the head just to make certain he was dead for sure.

2 (25m 51s):
Then hoping to incite a slave Uprising Brown led a gorilla attack on the federal Arsenal at Harpers Ferry, Virginia on October 16th, 1859 17 people lost their lives including 10 of Browns men two of whom were his sons Brown was executed on December 2nd 1859. Nine across the land Brown's execution was either celebrated or mourned with ringing church bells depending on which side of the Mason-Dixon line one. Hung one's heart in Concord, Massachusetts browns friends, including Ralph Waldo Emerson held a service in which Henry David Thoreau wrote called Brown a crucified hero.

2 (26m 33s):
The row was so excited about Browns martyrdom to the Abolitionist cause that he cheered that Brown's death gave people who were contemplating suicide quote something to live for exclamation point And in Lincoln puts it in a second inaugural the war came then John Brown got a song of his own sort of like every turn in the story at the song John Brown's Body is an accident of History. What happened was Union Soldiers the 12th, Massachusetts Regiment were stationed at Fort Warren in Boston Harbor as they went about their duties.

2 (27m 14s):
The soldiers sang. One of their favorites was this Methodist hymn say brother. Will you meet us? Kanan's happy show there was a singing quartet in Residence at the Fort Sergeant Charles Edgerly Sergeant Newton J. / net Sergeant James Jenkins and Sergeant John Brown one day in December of 1859 news arrived at the Fort about the famous abolitionist. John Brown's dead some smart aleck thinking of his singing comrade Sergeant. John Brown is said to have replied but he still goes marching around. around A soldier named Henry how green reportedly turned this wisecrack into the first verse of the song about his comrade John Brown's Body lies and moldering in the grave.

2 (28m 3s):
His soul goes marching on a soldier who played the organ set it to the music of say Brothers won't you meet us? So the song was a joke joshing among Soldiers the sort of ribbing a sergeant in today's Army might get if he had The Misfortune of Being named, Uday Hussein. John Brown's Body became the regiment's marching song. They sang it in public for the first time here in Boston on State Street on July 18th, 1861. After that they sang it marching down Broadway in New York City.

2 (28m 44s):
They sang it so often they became known as the Hallelujah regiment on March 1st, 1862. They sang it in Virginia on the very spot. The abolitionist. John Brown was hanged three months later Sergeant John Brown ground while cross Sing the Shenandoah River on his way to battle heartbroken the Hallelujah regiment never sang John Brown's Body again. But by that time they were the only ones in the Union Army not singing it. Northern soldiers would sing it on Parade marching from Battle to battle sitting around campfires at night. And since no one had ever heard of Sergeant Brown every soldier who sang the song thought he was paying tribute to the famed abolitionist.

2 (29m 29s):
Lyrics kept getting added on including one doozy of a stanza about the president of the Confederacy. We are on Jeff Davis to who I saw at apple tree. We are. Hi. I'm Jeff Davis to a sour apple tree will I'm Jeff Davis to a solid apple tree as we go my channel. In November of 1861 some white abolitionists from Boston including mr. And mrs. Samuel Gridley Howe and their minister Reverend James F Clark. We're touring a Union Army based on the outskirts of the nation's capital. They heard some soldiers singing about John Brown's Body am oldrin in the grave Reverend Clark turned to mrs.

2 (30m 14s):
Howe and wondered if she might like to write new more uplifting lyrics to that fine Melody of John Brown's Body. Not the Julia Ward Howe had a problem with John Brown. She had even hosted Brown at dinner in her home on one of his trips to Massachusetts trying to drum up money. He could use smiting the slave mongers basically abolitionist pledge drive. You are the public in public hanging. Julia Ward Howe it would recall of the morning. She wrote new lyrics that she had the feeling that something of importance had happened to me back home in Boston.

2 (30m 58s):
She gave the poem to her neighbor James T Fields editor of the Atlantic Monthly. He paid how $4 gave her poem the title The Battle Hymn of the Republic and published it in the February 1862 issue The Battle Hymn became a huge hit who knew the Atlantic Monthly was the tea. Are relevant today. Soldiers and citizens alike couldn't stop singing it when Abraham Lincoln heard it at a rally. It is said that his eyes filled with tears and he yelled sing it again sing it again. I have read a fiery gospel written burnished rows of Steel as he deal with my contaminator.

2 (31m 42s):
So with you my grace shall deal let the hero born of woman crush the serpent with his heel. Since God is marching on. That line in the him about the hero born of woman, which is a shout out to the Virgin Mary by way of William Shakespeare takes on an extra meaning in light of Julia Ward house biography though. She was married for 34 years raised six children and is in fact the creator of Mother's Day Julia how was not without ambivalence about Domesticity? For example, she wrote a poem entitled.

2 (32m 24s):
The present is Ed on her honeymoon writing to her sister about what she called the stupor of marriage and motherhood how complained it has been like blindness like death like Exile from All Things beautiful and good. So in The Battle Hymn of the Republic how reminds the nation that the Son of God had a human mom who did all the work. Hence. Let the hero born of woman crush the serpent with his heel. How is rubbing in the fact that even Jesus had to be potty trained?

2 (33m 9s):
like a lot of your bigger hit songs The Battle Hymn has been ripped off numerous times countless Renditions have been set to its tune which is fair enough considering that Julia Ward Howe ripped off a song which was a ripoff of a previous song There was solidarity forever a union number from the iww songbook when the Union's inspiration through the workers blood shall run that can't be no greater power anywhere beneath the Sun get that force on the

1 (33m 39s):
This

2 (33m 39s):
weaker than the feeble strength of one for the union makes us strong. There was glory land the official song for the 1994 World Cup in which Daryl Hall of & Oates Fame. Proclaimed to the soccer fans with passion Rising High, you know that you can reach your goal. I know and of course that playground classic mine eyes have seen the glory of the burning of the school. We are taught you that every teacher we have broken every rule.

2 (34m 20s):
We are much time to the principal to tell him. He's a fool the school is burning. In the 1950s around the time of the Korean War something else happened to Julia Ward house Battle Hymn of the Republic a word changed the line. Let us died to make men free got changed to let us live to make men free the new wording acknowledge that sometimes War isn't always the answer plus less of a downer.

2 (35m 18s):
And Through the Years a civil war of sorts has broken out between those who would die in those who would live the Mormon Tabernacle Choir sings live on their 1959 Grammy Award winning recording of the song Joan Baez leading a sing-along at a black college in Birmingham in 1962 went with the traditional die. And my opinion die is the way to go when you get rid of the word die. You erase the most moving idea in the song that if Christ died for us. We should be willing to die for each other. Why give that up? This is the one clear cut case where you can ask yourself.

2 (36m 1s):
What would Jesus do and you know the answer what would Jesus do die? And of course people disagree about the wording we disagree about everything else in this country. And when we sing the song today, I think we've been disagree about who the Serpent's are that our heels should crush some of us see our enemies abroad some see them at home. Some of us are still mad at France and that's the way it's been with this song.

2 (36m 44s):
All through its history it gets adapted for one use than another the melody is so powerful the word so strong you feel like you really would lay down your life for a just cause of your choosing. When we sing The Battle Hymn and I say we because that is how the song is traditionally performed at public events as a sing-along in which a group of citizens turned themselves in to acquire. We sing about taking action about marching on about doing something and this is the best part about singing The Battle Hymn, you're not standing there alone doing something. You're part of something the song starts off with mine eyes, and I have seen and by the end it's you and me and Let us die or let us live whatever us being the point.

2 (37m 33s):
We're all in it together. If only for the length of the song. Clara Bow

1 (37m 50s):
What about the band that's here on the stage on this tour? We have the band ok, go and we have this band headed by the semi-legendary John Langford of the

2 (37m 57s):
mekons and the Waco Brothers. Babak

1 (38m 4s):
John did a story with us and producer easterly kind on a staff in our show about the classified ads where he put together an entire band from the musicians classifieds and he's brought two of those musicians from from that story with them here on the tour on the far end. You'll see Eric

2 (38m 20s):
Mueller. On the theremin

1 (38m 25s):
Eric used to work for a company that made parts for the railroad. And on this end is Nathan Swanson who still works part-time for Home Depot

2 (38m 32s):
playing electric violin mandolin out on base and down on jump their Old Pros. He has written by the winner.

1 (38m 43s):
This is a Loser

2 (38m 44s):
Song. I took this job in the summer never saw the winter rolling on

1 (38m 53s):
I never thought it would end in a second a

2 (38m 56s):
burnout smoking

1 (38m 58s):
wreck

2 (39m 0s):
expectations on The Impressions were just a rope around my neck broke my back to the crust. So my dreams die in the dust. All In Bloom ready I won't bloom so sweet. I should it's nothing bad.

2 (40m 12s):
The spoils Belong To the victor. This is a concept. Malaysian song your life is science fiction in a Flash that you'll be gone. There's no more trials and no more trouble.

2 (40m 56s):
That is big. Coming up

1 (41m 1s):
scraps of paper personal letters handmade signs. I'll discard it and then found maybe there's something of yours in there. You will find out in a minute. from Chicago public radio when our program continues support for This American Life comes from quip. One of the first electric toothbrushes accepted by the American Dental Association quip has a built-in support system to help you stick with good brushing habits a built-in two-minute timer that pulses every 30 seconds to remind you to switch sides Sonic vibrations for healthier gums and a multi-use cover for brushing on the go plus brush heads are automatically delivered on a dentist recommended schedule every three months go to get quip.

1 (41m 46s):
At calm / American and get your first refill pack for free that's get quip.com American and from State Farm State Farm agents know that sometimes life throws everything at you at once like a fender bender when you're already late when it comes to auto and home insurance State Farm agents are ready to help. You can talk to your State Farm agent via text over the phone in person or using the State Farm app, which is super handy with voice. Activated commands that let you see your bill get claimed updates or Colin agent and with more than 19,000 agents. There's one close to you find an agent at statefarm.com.

1 (42m 29s):
This American Life and Ira Glass each week. Of course, we choose some theme bring you a variety of different kinds of stories on that theme today's program taped on the road in Boston, Portland, Oregon, Denver, Chicago and Washington DC

2 (42m 41s):
lost in America. There is a people who are lost words that a lost

1 (42m 48s):
things that are lost and now it again found we've arrived it at three of our program at 3:00. I found your letter, you know, when you're walking down the street and you spot some random piece of paper floating around a page from a letter shopping list with a note on it some kids paper from class. Do you pick it up? Do you read it me? Very nosy. Yes. As writing goes these pieces of paper their little rating orphans cut off from their original life cut off from everything that gave them meaning but still there with a lot on their minds and a lot to say a few years back Davy rothbart decided that somebody somewhere should do a magazine that was made up entirely of this kind of writing and then through sheer force of will he became that somebody and created found magazine now people all over the country send him this stuff.

1 (43m 37s):
He's agreed to come out and read some of this writing that has been discarded and misplaced lost. By its original owners, please. Welcome David rothbart. Everyone can find stuff and I want to give you just a sense of some of the stuff that people are finding and sending in to us this right here is a note that was found in LA and it says Jesse. I did not take anything. I know there's no convincing you once you've made up your mind and although I cannot offer you any other explanation as to what happened to it.

1 (44m 22s):
That doesn't mean I did it. How could I have you say your car was locked in Katie had the keys. Anyway, I don't need to take something of yours when I can get my own it doesn't make

2 (44m 35s):
sense.

1 (44m 39s):
But here's a replacement because I can't stand it when you think I've wronged you Mom.

2 (44m 50s):
The

1 (44m 50s):
authors of some of these notes they don't always paint themselves in the best light, you know, sometimes are going fine fine. And then they just skewer themselves at the end. And this is one that was found in Tacoma Washington and that the tops. Okay. It just says what kind of relationship do I want? How do I see myself in it? I'm nurturing. I'm relied upon I'm getting my Yaya's but then down here. It says what I hate about women. They're hard impossible to please and satisfy. They talk a lot without saying much or being intimate and they're self-involved and self-absorbed. I want

2 (45m 25s):
them to be absorbed with me.

1 (45m 33s):
This one was found in Berkeley, California actually on the front line of a fraternity house and it was a whole book of letters back and forth from the elders in the house to the pledges the young kids that are trying to get into the fraternity. So this is one of the notes that's from one of the elders to one of the young pledges name's AJ, and he says AJ tonight's event was just a tradition of the house. It was not gay even though you had to pull down your pants. At least you didn't have to show it to all the actives gesture pleasure Master its meaning to prove your manhood and that you are not a boy, but none of us are gay aside from All this I want you to know that I've seen some improvement out of you since your first place.

1 (46m 32s):
Keep up the effort and have a positive attitude of things. I tell you it's all worth it. Once you cross take my word for it. Just hang in there. Okay? Listen, I want you to have dinner with me when you're free someday. It's a great chance for you to get to know me better and for me to answer questions, you may have all right, Aaron

2 (46m 54s):
and

1 (46m 56s):
so many of the notes as I read through them and they come in the mail every day. They that people are finding they deal with love and relationships, you know, and one of the favorite notes that I've ever found myself was this note. I found in Chicago on my windshield. I came out of my friend's apartment late one night. It had snowed a little bit and you know, what like a thin layer of snow every car looks But the same and my name is Davy but there's a note on my windshield was addressed to Marco and it said Marko I freaking hate you. You said you had to work then? Why is your car

2 (47m 31s):
here her

1 (47m 35s):
place? You're freaking liar. I hate you. I freaking hate you Crystal PS page me later. and then this one just came in last week from I was found in North Carolina and it says Dear will the longer I think about what I'm doing the sicker I feel Will I'm sorry, but I don't think we should continue to have a relationship together at least not as a couple. I love you, but things have not been the same since we found out that we were

2 (48m 8s):
related.

1 (48m 17s):
My little brother Peter he is the best finder. I know he's amazes me with what he brings home. And this is what he found when he was visiting me in Chicago and it's written like a kid's handwriting. It looks like maybe a 12 year old kid. It says to cashier. Will you please sell my son one pack of Newport

2 (48m 37s):
Lights?

1 (48m 42s):
Nitric thank you for your help and it's just like scroll adult looking signature and you know, um, and then this this one my brother found pinned under the winded tucked it under the back tire of his bicycle and it's just handsome-looking sign someone spent a good deal of time putting this thing together. It says after leaving the building, please lock this door, it will prevent unauthorized people from entering the building and defecating in the

2 (49m 10s):
wash. Machine many thanks

1 (49m 20s):
and when you send your fines and I ask that you named your Vines and also that you write one line, you know a sense of response or interpretation to it about this one my brother wrote. He says note that those who are authorized to defecate in the washing machine will be given a key for entry. And you know, yeah, I applaud for whoever made that sign but but also for my brother who you know just picked it up off the ground and I asked him. You know, how do you do it? What's your secret? My brother says that it's been scientifically calculated by him. That one that one in five twenty percent of all fines are gems of fines. So that means if you pick one thing up a day that every week you'll have a real Jewel of a fine.

1 (50m 4s):
Let's read this one here. This is from Erie, Pennsylvania. And it's it's a note like a kid writing a letter to his dad. It says hi, Dad. What's up? Not much here. Just working to save money. I'm working at Old Country Buffet starting at six fifty an hour cooking. Dad. Are there any cooking jobs down there? Let me know when you write me back. I gave cleave your letter. Okay, without mom knowing. Okay. I can't wait to come down there Eerie sucks bad. There ain't nothing to do too cold. The weather sucks too Dad. I drink to beer Budweiser, but I don't drink a lot and I do a little drugs to I smoke joints and I got a bowl.

1 (50m 46s):
That's cool. I'll See it. Okay. I talked to Grandma. She said she's going to send you a letter and some money dad. I don't know if Cleaver Beth is coming down, but I'll talk to them and see if not it will be just me only dad. You're going to run a mobile home. That's cheap hundred a week. That's cheap. Dad try and see if there's any apartments for rent and let me know how much okay Dad. I'm going to take a Greyhound because it's cheap only $49, but I'll call you ahead of time Dad all of the money. I'm saving from working at my job and my income tax check. I should have a lot okay with the money we should be able to get a place for us. Okay, Dad. I can't wait to come down there pretty soon turn over.

1 (51m 26s):
Dad I'm a cook and I can cook us some stuff cook some meals up for us get a grill and cook on that. Also. I got a lot of CDs like AC/DC Led Zeppelin Metallica Pink Floyd The Doors Jimi Hendrix, Judas Priest Black Sabbath and all that we can jam out and have lots of fun. important dead I'm gonna send you some stamps so you can write me back and I'm going to give you a calling card so you can call me. Dad when you get your place, give me your address and let me know where you're at. I miss you and I can't wait to see you we will have lots of fun keep in touch so I know what's going on.

1 (52m 7s):
Okay, Dad. I'm still coming down there. I can't wait. So let me know what's going on. Okay, take care and take it easy. Okay. I love you Dad right back soon. And I don't know I guess I could go on and on talking about why this piece of paper that was just picked up off the ground. You know why it moves me so much, but I'm guessing you guys feel me. So okay. I just have one last find that I want to share with you and and it's an algebra test and it's a kid named Tim Walbridge who did his his his test over chapter 7 in Algebra 2 class and was found in Portland Maine. It's clear that Tim is having a Girls with algebra 2 but I like what he's done here, you know, he's like questions three and four say to graph each function and so he's grabbed a smiley face and a frowning face question 5 says you put two thousand dollars into an account earning 4% interest compounded continuously find the amount at the end of eight years and timro

2 (53m 12s):
not enough. If not, here's

1 (53m 17s):
his Has his moment of Genius question 14, which says use the properties? Of logarithms to evaluate Log 5 plus log 10 plus log 2 and so he's drawn this like angry-looking old man. Who's yelling get off my property you have to admire this kids creative spark. I mean if he's my student, he's getting a plus best grade in the class. But what's notable is kind of the ruthless humorousness with his assessment graded like no comment toward of his tortoise creative. Encouragement just a simple Red X through every problem and his total score for this test which on the back includes a series of rhymed couplets.

1 (54m 7s):
His total score is a zero. Actually. Do you guys wanna hear these couplets? Yeah. Okay. All right. This is it. This is Tim's answer to questions 18 19 and 20 18. For example, it says x to the power of three halves minus 5 equals 59, which I would not answer either by but I don't know if I would have come up with what Tim did he says he says, my name is Tim. I'm an algebra 2. I sit in class for an hour and nothing I do what Kepler is talking about. I guess I'll never know but it's stuff. I should have learned a long time ago, but I just sat in his room watching the time pass and all I would do is sit on my A s blank I hope of passing is no hope at all.

1 (55m 1s):
I just stare at the board and watch my grade fall. Maybe someday My Grave will go higher. But who am I kidding? I'm only a liar this algebra year in June will soon stop and that means my grade can no longer drop.

2 (55m 16s):
Thanks you guys. Maybe rothbart

1 (55m 27s):
this Magazine's website found magazine.com.

2 (55m 39s):
Columbus mile down on his knees so weak from sailing on the Seas. He thought he was in the East Indies, but he was lost in America in America. They completed the Transcontinental shining wind and I am Spider-Man a whistleblower.

2 (56m 28s):
I'm about Millie. I'm talking about - well the bottles top-10 the champagne until they heard about the crash. The sun disappear got it.

2 (57m 7s):
A person was produced today by Julie

1 (57m 14s):
Snyder Diane cooked had Bachmann me with our other producers Alex blumberg Wendy door and Starly kind production help them Cadia done engineering for a show in Boston by Miles Smith and DC Jonathan Cherry and Big Mo recording and Portland John Frazier in Chicago. Mary Gaffney. Our merch Guru Jorge. Just thanks to Adam Beckman can sluder mixed one of our bands Brian cut some in the other. Thanks. Also to Robbie Willard. Thanks to the public radio. Been our hosts and presenters in the five cities WBUR in Boston WAMU, 88.5 FM and DC Oregon public broadcasting and Portland, Colorado Public Radio in Denver and Chicago public radio in our hometown special. Thanks today to our bands and all of our cities but DC Dan masse on drums Alan Dow t on base Eric Miller on theremin Nathan Swanson on violin and mandolin plus Pat Brennan on piano and John rice on guitar and the great John Lankford.

1 (58m 2s):
I'm guitar

2 (58m 2s):
vocals in DC. Okay. Go is Damian cool. - on vocals Tim nordwind on base Andrew Duncan on guitar

1 (58m 10s):
Don cannot go and drums and Burly Seaver on keyboards website www.misnylaw.com life.org. This is are again talking in the present in the year since Today's show was first broadcast Chris Sewell the man. I talked with at the top of the show about his hobby of finding unclaimed money online. He died in 2016. Jonathan Goldstein is now the host of the podcast heavyweight Sarah vowell wrote the book Lafayette in the somewhat United States Navy. Robert is still posted. In find that file magazine.com additional production on today's program from Jessica lessin hop Stone Nelson in 1980. This American Life is delivered to public radio stations by PRX the public radio exchange sport for This American Life comes from the Lagunitas Brewing Company fueling stories and songs with Lagunitas IPA.

1 (58m 55s):
And of course committed to keeping the pub in public radio and it more won't you had one good meet

2 (59m 1s):
us.com WD easy management oversight by mr. Tory morality, uh who begs you begs? You

1 (59m 12s):
quit tickling me. I have to make this an early

2 (59m 15s):
night. I'm Ira Glass back next week with more stories in This American Life.

1 (59m 37s):
Next week on the podcast of This American Life. They're going always been small for his age. So his parents got him human growth hormone. His dad knows how it looks. This is all this whole let me game the system. I want my child to get a 1600 sat. I want my child to go to Harvard. But at the same time, I don't think it's all that Sinister some people want to cure smallness others. See it's raw untapped power next week and the podcast on your local public radio station.