Squarespace (0s):
Support for This American. Life comes from Squarespace. Squarespace is the all in one website platform for entrepreneurs to stand out and succeed online. Whether you're just starting out or managing a growing brand, Squarespace makes it easy to create a beautiful website, engage with your audience, and sell anything from products to content, to time all in one place, all in your terms. Head to Squarespace dot com for a free trial, and when you're ready to launch, go to Squarespace dot com slash American to save 10% off your first purchase of a website or domain. That's Squarespace dot com slash American

1 (36s):
WBC Chicago. It's this American life America Glasss. And there's this theater company in Chicago that for years has put out a new show every single week where they performed 30 plays in 60 minutes. It's called The, Neo Futurists. And when we first broadcast today's program all the way back in 2003, a bunch of us were sitting around talking about that group. And one of us had just seen one of those shows and we thought, you know, that would be really fun. 30 stories in 60 minutes. Let's try that. Instead of our usual, each week, we choose a theme. Bring you three or four stories, blah, blah, blah, public radio, very reflective. What kinds of stories would we end up with if we did 30 in one hour or even 20, what would it sound like?

1 (1m 21s):
We honestly had no idea. And so that's what we're gonna do today. Today we're gonna find out And, I have to say, time is wasting. If we're gonna fit everything in, how many will it be? How many will we squeeze in? There's, but one way to find out, And that is to stick around. And let's begin with this one. Act One, don't. I know you throughout this hour, we're gonna be bringing you two minute documentaries, fantastically short works of fiction and all kinds of little stories that we ordinarily can't use on the radio show because they are just too short, even though they're really fun stories to listen to and perfect stories for the radio.

1 (2m 0s):
Our first story is one like that. It's one of those stories, you know, how people, you know have their greatest hits, stories of things that happened to them. We went on a massive search for stories like that from all over the country. And this is one of the stories like that, that we found. It happened to this actor named Tate Donovan. He told it to our producer, Starlee Kind. He was at one night going to a Broadway play with a friend being treated in this way. He never gets treated.

3 (2m 24s):
We're sitting around waiting for the, for for it to start And I. you know, I'm not a very, I'm not a sort of recognizable actor. I'm an actor who works, but I never get recognized. So all of a sudden, like, you know, the 10 minutes we're sitting there for it to start, I, you know, three or four people come up to me and, and recognize me. I mean, they know exactly who I am. And, and they, they are quoting lines from a television show I was on and like, Hey, you were Joshua on, on friends. And I've always admired stars who were really gracious, you know? Right. So you always think, you think, you know, that's what I wanna be like. I wanna be really friendly when I'm famous. So I wanted to be friendly and sweet and, and, and go out to the people.

3 (3m 5s):
They don't have to come to

4 (3m 5s):
Me all the time.

5 (3m 7s):
So for like a little window of time though, you were exactly the kind of celebrity that you wanted to always be. You were gracious and reserved.

3 (3m 14s):
Yeah, and, and warm. you know what I mean? I wasn't like one of these distant celebrities, you know, I was like, Hey, I was genuine. Like they all left thinking that guy's a really great guy, you know, he's like so sweet. I, you know, I was ex I was, I was exactly how I wanted to be. I was doing it. I was doing great. And then the kid with the camera came along, This nervous kid, I dunno, he must have been 16 years old. He's in a rented tuxedo, unbelievably like shy and awkward, and he's got like acne and he's got a camera in his hand, and underneath the marquee is his date, who is literally like a, a prom dress.

3 (3m 56s):
And she's got a corsage and she's really, you know, nervous and sort of clutching her hands. And he sort of comes up to me and he sort of mumbles, you know, something like, you know, something about a picture. And I'm like, I just feel for him. So I'm like, oh, absolutely. My gosh, sure, no problem. My god, poor thing. And And, I go up to his, his girlfriend, And I, wrap my arms around her And. I'm like, Hey, where you from? Fantastic guy. Gonna see the play. That's great. And the guy is sort of not taking the photograph very quickly. He's just sort of staring at me, and he's got his camera in his hands, and it's down by his like chin, you know? And, and she's very stiff and awkward.

3 (4m 35s):
And, I, you know, I don't know what to do. So I just lean across And I. I kiss her on the cheek and I'm like, all right, come on, take the picture, hurry up. And, and finally he sort of like snaps it. And I'm like, okay, it was really wonderful to meet you. And he just like stammered over to me and was like, could, could you take a picture of us? Oh, and the whole time he just wanted me to take a picture of him and his girlfriend underneath the awning of the play. He didn't wanna picture of me. He had no idea who I was. Oh God, they were in shock.

3 (5m 23s):
I don't think they'd ever come across a human being. You're acting this way, you know? I mean, could you imagine? You ask someone to take a picture and you just get in it yourself and kiss 'em and hey,

1 (5m 38s):
Hey, Donovan with Starlee Kind right now, you can catch him with Paul Giamatti and his ladies' movie, the Holdovers, Act Two. No, of course I know you. One of the things that was really interesting about putting this show together was going to some of our regular contributors and commissioning stories that were just two or three minutes long for people who normally write stories that are like 10 times at length. This next story is an example of that from Scott Carrier in Salt Lake City.

6 (6m 7s):
Who was that woman? That woman I just saw while walking out of the restaurant? She was sitting at a table by the door glasses, a hat like Lois Lane. She looked at me like she knew me. And I said hello, because I thought I recognized her, but I couldn't remember her name. So I just kept going out the door. Now, I can't even remember how I know her. I know I know her, or used to know her somehow. She was very important to me. She helped me out in a time of trouble. She used to roll her eyes. I'd say something dumb and she'd roll her eyes and get me something I needed, even though she didn't have to.

6 (6m 49s):
Maybe she works in the library or the county recorder's office or at the newspaper. I think I may have been in love with her. No, she's too young. I was never in love with her. Not in that way. It's just that I wanted something, needed something, and she was able to give it to me almost out of the goodness of her heart. And now I can't even remember who she is. I'm sick. I'm old. I should just walk out into traffic and kill myself At home at night. I go to sleep searching for the lost memory. Did I meet her down by the river in a canoe? Or was it on a ferry in southeastern Alaska or at the Foreign Correspondence Club in Panolam Pen along the Mekong.

6 (7m 38s):
She has something to do with water, with life, with mud, I sleep poorly, turning and maybe even groaning in anguish. I don't care about the woman anymore. I'm worried for myself. I feel as if there's a black hole in my brain. And slowly but surely, it's swallowing all the memories of my life. I get up at five 30 and drive to work in the dark. I feel terrible. I look like a piece of gum in the gutter. I pull into Java Joe's to get some chemical help, and there she is behind the drive up window.

6 (8m 20s):
I wanna tell her I love her, but I don't because it would be too weird. All I can say is wow. and she rolls her eyes and gets me my cup of coffee.

1 (8m 35s):
Scott Carrier in Salt Lake City. You can find him writing this month at Mother Jones magazine, where he wrote the cover story about Utah Republicans finally trying to do something to fix the great Salt Lake. Act, Three, it's commerce that brings us together. In 1997, Susan Drury and her husband moved to rural Tennessee, not too far from the Alabama line. They were attached to the local radio station.

7 (9m 2s):
We couldn't really get any other radio stations at the house. But WKSR has a lot going for it. The way they read the obituaries on the air, the way people call in during the tornado to tell everybody they're okay, and where the roads are flooded, the ads from the same downtown stores over and over and over. And then there's the show we like best.

8 (9m 21s):
Here we go. It's time once again for another edition of us, Swap and Shop here on WKSR.

7 (9m 26s):
Swap. and Shop is a low tech, personable sort of Ebay the, it's not fancy or particularly well produced or anything. It's just a show where people call in to say what they want to sell or buy or give away. They give their phone number and that's it.

8 (9m 40s):
Swap and Shop. Good morning.

9 (9m 42s):
Good morning. I have a couch for sale. I need to advertise.

8 (9m 45s):
Okay,

9 (9m 46s):
It's a lane recliner couch. It's six weeks old. It listed for 1140 and I'll sell it for $600. It, we've just got one too many.

8 (9m 58s):
Okay. And your phone number?

9 (10m 0s):
Four six eight two five two four.

8 (10m 3s):
All right, sir. Thank you for calling. Thank

9 (10m 5s):
You. Have a good day.

8 (10m 6s):
You too. There's a couch for sale at 4 6 8 2 5 2 4.

7 (10m 11s):
The show is Hosted by a guy named Don Estep, and he almost never comments on anything people are trying to buy or sell. He's like a lot of my neighbors, particularly the men. The attitude is your business is your business. There's no shame in tough times and nobody turns themselves inside out to tell you everything.

9 (10m 28s):
Yes, I have for sale a table and chairs, a microwave and a washer and a bedroom suit. And I. Also wanna buy a car, a small car.

8 (10m 40s):
Okay, there's a table and chairs.

7 (10m 42s):
Mostly you're just left to wonder about the story behind these things. Looking to buy a car, you don't get too many answers.

8 (10m 48s):
Swap and Shop. Good morning.

9 (10m 50s):
Yes sir. I'd like to buy a used trampoline. Doesn't matter what shape it's in or if it even has a tarp on it or not. And my telephone number is six two nine

7 (11m 1s):
Swap and Shop is not unique to this station. Local stations across the country have these radio classified type shows. WK R'S version has a regular segment called the Doggone Show.

8 (11m 12s):
Folks have found a black, white, and brown young female beagle with a white tip on its tail. And more than likely a family pet. If you'll call 5 6 5 4 5 0 5 is that number. Also, four cows have been found And, if you think they might belong to you.

7 (11m 35s):
That first winter in our house, we had no heat, which we thought was adventurous, but was in fact just cold. And when we heard a lady call in with an ugly but functional wood stove for sale for $75, we called her. We got it. And we were toasty.

10 (11m 50s):
Hey Don, that little black and brown and white beagle with a tip on her tail that we found. Well, we lost her. So you can quit advertising her on Barnett Road.

8 (11m 60s):
On the Barnett Road. Yeah, all thank, thank you.

11 (12m 3s):
Thank you.

1 (12m 6s):
Susan Dory in Tennessee. In the years since we first broadcast this story in 2003, Don Esip, the host of Swap and Shop, who you just heard has died. Act Four, the sound of one hand waving. So for this one, let's go to the beach for a one minute and four second vacation on Nantucket Island.

11 (12m 29s):
When we were in the water and we realized we weren't able to get back in, we had some friends that were on the beach. And so we started waving to them. We were kind of doing this double hand wave thing over our heads and our friend just kept waving back. She was standing and talking to some other people on the beach. And that must have happened two or three times. And we waved like crazy and she waved back. And then when we got on the surfboard later when the surfer picked us up and we still couldn't get in, we were waving again and again. She thought, we asked her afterwards, she said, why did you think we were waving? and she said, we thought you were just trying to show us you were on the surfboard with this guy. said, oh my God.

11 (13m 9s):
you know, we're waving frantically like to tell you what, that we're on a surfboard with a 19-year-old and we're nobody got it. And we were sufficiently panicked and nobody saw anything but a bunch of paged women at Fat Ladies Beach waving to their friends.

1 (13m 30s):
Patty Martin from Nantucket, she talked to James Seltzer. She has since passed away. Act Five, the sound of no hands clapping. This one came. From Vicki Merrick and Eric Kipp and Jay Allison, who's the voice you hear?

13 (13m 47s):
Listen, scallops clapping on Martha's Vineyard.

1 (14m 4s):
Six. Reaching out with Radio Blunt Youth Radio as this project where they work with incarcerated teenagers. This story comes from Long Creek Youth Development Center in South Portland, Maine. And just imagine how this works. You're a teenager, you're locked up, you're in juvenile detention, and this group comes to you and says they will help you make your own radio story on a subject that concerns you. What do you do that story about? Well, here's Joey.

14 (14m 31s):
Hi, I'm Joey And. I ate somebody's urine, but all started when I went to dinner at the cafeteria and someone told my friend not to eat the pudding. Then my friend told me after I ate that someone had peed in it. I survived that day, but I couldn't stop thinking about it. So I went to the cooks to see if they had an answer. This is Joey and Jake. We're about to see if we can interview Bill Wyman on our food situation. People messing with our food.

15 (14m 60s):
Yeah, we're not too happy.

14 (15m 1s):
We're not too happy. Excuse me, Mr. Wyman. I was wondering if I could interview you and talk to about people putting, if it happened, glassing our pancakes and peeing in the pudding and stuff. We was wondering what you had to say about that.

16 (15m 20s):
They don't, nobody does that. Your kids don't handle the food at all.

14 (15m 26s):
We heard that it was brought up at briefing that somebody put glass in the pancakes. No,

16 (15m 31s):
It wasn't glass. It was a piece of plastic that came from one of the, the glasses out there in the dining room that you got, you kids had,

14 (15m 39s):
How do you know how it got into the pancake batter?

16 (15m 42s):
It didn't get into the pancake batter. It was put in there afterwards. Well,

15 (15m 46s):
We, we've heard different from other kids. We've heard different.

16 (15m 49s):
Do you know anything about it?

14 (15m 50s):
We, we heard that it was, did you

16 (15m 52s):
Have any idea whatsoever? What, what's going on?

15 (15m 58s):
That's why we came to you to get an idea. No,

16 (15m 60s):
That's not why you came to me. This rumor you came to me to because you thought it was true.

15 (16m 6s):
Yeah, of course. If if some you kept it going. If somebody said that they messed with your food, joking or not, wouldn't you wanna know really if what happened or, or not? No,

16 (16m 15s):
I would. I would totally go with the kitchen. With the kitchen crew and what you guys have been told.

15 (16m 25s):
So you'd believe the kitchen crew over the person. No matter how much credibility you can give them, you'd believe them. The kitchen crew over them. Even if of course,

16 (16m 33s):
Because you don't cook the food. You think it's funny, don't you? You really think it's funny?

15 (16m 41s):
No, I really, I really don't. Why think it's funny grinning like

16 (16m 43s):
A Cheshire

15 (16m 44s):
Cat? Because you're going a, you're going frigging zero to 10. Just 'cause we're asking you a bunch of questions. No,

16 (16m 50s):
It's not. It's what you're asking. It's how you're asking the same thing over again and you're trying to get an answer, which is, is it? There isn't any answer there.

14 (16m 58s):
Alright, this is obviously not working. I'm gonna have to interview somebody else. I heard some kid got jumped because he supposedly peed in the pudding.

17 (17m 8s):
Yeah, supposedly. And that's

16 (17m 10s):
The key word right there.

17 (17m 12s):
We, we have an investigator and he investigated the incident and we also had had the pudding tested. They took it to an independent laboratory and tested it. And it was proven that there was no foreign matter in that put in at all. Now perhaps you weren't told that because I don't think you're told everything, but you know, it was sad that because you thought there was, you incited a riot in the dining room and made a big mess that kids had to clean up that had nothing to do with it.

14 (17m 43s):
I don't know what to think if someone did contaminate the food with bodily fluids. I guess I'd rather not know since I'm stuck here. And, I have to eat the food. Thank you for your time. This is Joey.

1 (17m 54s):
Joey. He was 18 when he recorded that story. His friend Jake was 16. If you're just tuning in, this is This American Life. We have tossed out our regular way of doing the show this week. Trashed it, chucked it, spurned it. We laugh at it, we spit on its grave and instead we are bringing you as many short stories as we can fit into 60 minutes. It's barely what? 18 minutes into the show and already we are at Act. Seven an incredible achievement. Act Seven up where the air is clear. We have this story from Jonathan Goldstein

18 (18m 28s):
Before he ever moved to Gotham City before he grew into the overweight, obsessive, sad sack of his later years. The Penguin was a poet and a dandy who lived in London. He wrote complex villain ELs and threw lavish dinner parties at which he only became more charming the more he drank. He wore a monocle, a top hat, and carried an umbrella one evening at one of his dinner parties after hours spent sipping absent the Penguin ran up to the roof of his building, opened up his large black umbrella and leapt off into the air. As he coasted to the ground, he hollered out lines from Blake, stuff about grabbing life by the fat of its stomach and giving it a twist. He was that crazy.

18 (19m 10s):
He was that bursting with life from that night on. He made it his habit to jump off roofs ever higher while clutching an umbrella. After a while, he got pretty good at it too. He saw that by kicking his legs and twisting his back a certain way, he could actually prolong his flight coasting all over the place, sometimes only landing. After several daring minutes along It came to pass that the Penguin started hearing more and more about a certain nanny named Mary Poppins. She too, he was told had been floating around London, hanging from an umbrella handle.

18 (19m 52s):
Everywhere he went, the Penguin kept hearing about her, how it was simply insane that they had not met each other yet. So finally a dinner party was arranged by someone who knew them both. And on the evening of the party, the Penguin walked into the drawing room, saw Mary Poppins on the Devon Doffed his top hat and bowed low, as was his style. In those days, he'd planned a few things to say and do. When first meeting Mary Poppins, he thought he might lift up his umbrella as though challenging her to a dual. He imagined she would smile and take up her own frilly, perhaps pink umbrella. And then together they would dance about the room leaping over furniture, paring and thrusting, perhaps even winding things up, breathing heavily, nose to nose.

18 (20m 36s):
Instead what happened was the Penguin became very shy and quiet. As he stood there staring at her, his top hat felt needlessly clumsy. His monocle too small for his face and the squinting needed to keep it in place was giving him a slight headache. For the first time in his life, the Penguin felt ludicrous. I imagine you two must have an infinite amount of things to speak of. Said their host as he sat them together at the dinner table. The Penguin nodded uncertainly. After three or four minutes, it became clear that the Penguin and Mary Poppins had absolutely nothing to say to one another that did not deal exclusively with umbrella travel getting stuck in trees. The shoulder aches, anxiety about tipping over in the wind.

18 (21m 19s):
Everyone at the table just sat there staring at them expectantly, which made the whole thing even more awkward, trying to move things along. Mary Poppins asked the Penguin if he liked to sing, to which the Penguin responded only when I'm drunk. Then she asked if he enjoyed children, to which he replied Yes in a sweet wine sauce. The Penguin then asked Mary Poppins how she kept people from looking up her skirt. When she flew, she smiled politely, then turned to the man on her left and asked him how he was enjoying the lamb. the man on her left was wearing an elegant aristocratic Cape Mary, a bit drunk on the sherry, noted that if he spread his cape out, he might be able to glide about like a bat.

18 (22m 2s):
the man on her left chuckled and suggest that after dinner they head up to the roof and give it a try, which they did.

1 (22m 16s):
Jonathan Goldstein, he's the host of the podcast heavyweight, which feels exactly like this story except the people in it are not fictional. The last episode of the new season went out last week. Act Eight, the greatest dog name in the world. Yes, we have the true story of its origin. Years ago, an exclusive told by Two brothers, one of whom is 12, the other's 13.

19 (22m 44s):
I wanted to name him pasta. I used to like pasta a lot. So, and it was probably the first thing that came to my mind. So out of nowhere I said pasta. So he said, Batman. I wanted to name a Batman because I saw in a movie, the dog stuck his head out the window and his ears went like straight up. And it looked like it reminded me of Batman. And we fought over it for a little bit. I just remember running around and chasing each other. I was jumping on my mom's bed saying like, Batman, Batman, Batman. And my brother, brother was sitting in the, in the chair saying like, pasta, pasta, pasta. And that must've gone on for like an hour.

19 (23m 28s):
I think it was right around the time we had this big fight about gumballs, which I'm not gonna get into 'cause it's pretty embarrassing. But if there was just some little thing that we couldn't agree on, then it would just blew up into this whole big thing. Yeah, I remember being pretty upset about it. And then my mom comes in and says like, all right, that's it. It's over. It's pasta. Batman, that's it. And then there was silence. And then from there he is Pasta. Batman Lo. It's pasta. Come on. Pasta. Batman, pasta here. Pasta. Batman.

19 (24m 8s):
Hey, good doggie.

1 (24m 17s):
Their names Ian and Paris. Loit, age 12 and 13. They spoke with Katie a Dunn Act, Nine of dogs and men. Elaine Beum used to work at a pet shop.

20 (24m 30s):
We've had to help people select items for their animals. And this woman and her husband came in. She was looking for a training collar, the the pinch collar type And. of course they're pretty hideous looking, but they do do the job and they don't hurt the animal, they just get the animal's attention. Well, she couldn't make up her mind what size to get. So she looked over to husband and she said, dear, come over here. And then she looked at me and she said, you know, his neck is about the same size as the dog. Put this on, she says, and the guy stood there and took it. and she puts the prong pinch collar around his neck and she gives him a yank and, and he says, yes, sweetheart, this works, this works. Thank you very much. That was the end of that

1 (25m 12s):
Elaine Baum talked with James Seltzer. Act. Ten. So let's close out this part of our show before the break with a story from the theater group that gave us the idea for today's jam packed little program in the first place. That group, again, The, Neo Futurists. They've done these shows where they performed 30 plays in 60 minutes. Turns out you can get across a surprising amount in a two minute play. Some of their plays are monologues, some of them are scenes, but a lot of them just take some simple concept, one idea, and then spin that concept out on stage for two minutes. This one's like that.

21 (25m 44s):
Statement, statement, statement, question. Agreement, reassurance statement, confident statement, confident statement, overconfident statement question. Elaborate. Defensive excuse. Halfhearted agreement. Insecure statement. Distracted statement. Absurd statement. Clarification. Question. Hammock. Full explanation. Quick, meaningless. Comic non-sequitur. Fake laughter. Fake laughter.

21 (26m 25s):
Accidental compliment of physical characteristics. Please. Response. Shocked. Continuation of meaningless comic non-equity. Laughter relief. Laughter. Laughter. Relief. Laughter. Superficial compliment. Self-assured agreement is denial. Exaggerated statement. Exaggerated statement. Grossly exaggerated statement. Clarification. Question, extremely exaggerated. Elucidation. Mental compliment with accidental. Double entendre, confident laughter, confident suggestive proposition.

21 (27m 16s):
Violent denial. Aghast repetition as question. Disgusted, violent denial. Defensive, incriminating, implication, offended, retort, aggressive, childish insult.

2 (27m 37s):
Disbelieving,

21 (27m 38s):
Rhetorical

2 (27m 39s):
Question,

21 (27m 41s):
Aggressive, childish insult,

2 (27m 45s):
Silence.

21 (27m 47s):
Aggressive, childish

2 (27m 48s):
Insult,

21 (27m 50s):
Childish response. Aggressive, childish response. Aggressive, attempted, condescending, conclusive statements. Brilliant

2 (27m 59s):
Literary

21 (27m 60s):
Illusion and long term devastating implications. Pathetic self revelation.

1 (28m 19s):
Greg Allen and Heather. Rearden from too much light makes the baby go blind. 30 plays in 60 minutes, which ran every weekend in Chicago for 28 years until it ended its run in 2016. Greg is the founder of the group. The Neo. Futurists have a new show which also features lots of little two minute plays. It is called The Infinite Wrench. This is also a company in Detroit, the UN Theater, doing these kinds of shows and other productions around the world. Their website, Neo futurist.org. Coming up, David Sedaris on an important And I have to say undiscussed question about cell phone use. And so many, so many other little stories. I don't even wanna count them in a minute. From Chicago Public Radio.

1 (28m 59s):
When our program continues

BP (29m 2s):
Across America, BP supports more than 275,000 jobs to keep energy flowing. Jobs like building grid scale, solar in Ohio and producing gas with fewer operational emissions in Texas. It's and not, or see what doing both means for energy. Nationwide at bp.com/investing in America

BetterHelp (29m 25s):
Support for This. American life comes from BetterHelp. Whether or not your family gives gifts during the holidays, you get to define how you give to yourself. And the holidays are a great time to do that. So whether it's by starting therapy, going easier on yourself during the tough moments, or treating yourself to a day of complete rest, remember to give yourself some love this holiday season. Be number one on your gift list this year with BetterHelp Visit BetterHelp dot com slash t today to get 10% off your first month.

1 (29m 57s):
Well this is turning out to be an interesting show, isn't it? It's This, American, Life am Ira glass. And if you're just tuning in this week, we are throwing out our regular way of doing things. you know, three or four stories and some theme, blah, blah, blah. To hell with all that. Instead, we are trying to cram as many stories into one hour as we humanly can we guarantee 20? There may be more. We are at number 11, etiquette lesson. Here's writer David Seras

22 (30m 24s):
In a men's room at LaGuardia Airport. I watched a man take a cell phone from his jacket pocket, step into an empty stall and proceed to dial. I thought he had come for the relative privacy, but looking through the space beneath the door, I saw that his pants were gathered about his ankles. He was sitting on the toilet. Most airport calls begin with geography. I'm in Kansas City. People say I'm in Houston, I'm in Kennedy. When asked where he was, the man on the phone said simply, I'm at the airport. What do you think the sounds of a public toilet are not the sounds he would generally associate with an airport. And so his, what do you think struck me as unfair?

22 (31m 7s):
The person he was talking to obviously felt the same way. What do you mean what airport? the man said iit LaGuardia. Now put me through to Marty a few hours later I was in Boston relating the story to my sister Tiffany. I mean, he actually placed a call while sitting on the toilet. Tiffany is big on rules and so I expected a certain degree of outrage. I want to disgust, but instead she said, only I don't believe in cell phones. But you do believe in talking on the phone while sitting on the toilet. Well, it's not a belief she said. But I mean, sure. When asked how she explains the noise, Tiffany scrunched up her face and held an imaginary receiver to her mouth.

22 (31m 52s):
I say, don't mind me, I'm just trying to get the lid off this jar. Her face returned to normal And I thought of all the times I had fallen for that line. All the times I had pictured my sister standing helpless in her kitchen, try tapping the lid against the countertop I'd said, or rinse it in hot water that sometimes works. Eventually, after much struggle, she would let out a breath. There we go. She'd say, I've got it now. And then she would say, thank you. And I'd hang up thinking, well, it's a good thing she called me

1 (32m 31s):
David Sedaris. His most recent book is Happy Go lucky Act Twelve. To Tell the Truth, this was recorded by Brent Runyon in the kid section of the public library.

5 (32m 43s):
My parents punished me so many times. Say it because I lied. Well, I was home one day, And I tripped over my brother. Well I, okay, I don't tell anybody this. I jumped over my brother's chair. I jumped. You did? Yeah. You lied to me. I told you I jumped. No, you did. I told you the first day I got my crutches. No, you did not. Oh,

1 (33m 6s):
Act Thirteen more lies. This happened to Catherine and her husband, John, long before they were married, back before they graduated from college.

23 (33m 15s):
Girls babysit a lot and boys don't. And girls understand that when you babysit, part of the deal is that you get to eat anything you want. So after we'd put the kids to bed, I said, well, we should go see what they have to eat. And he said, we can't eat their food. And I said, of course we can eat their food. What do you mean? And he said, that's stealing. I said, John, I promise you it's fine to eat something. They, they expect us to, they, they understand that, you know, they don't expect us to starve while we're babysitting. And finally, and he said, well, we can eat something, but only something they won't miss. And they had a huge crate full of grapefruits.

23 (33m 57s):
And they also had cans and cans of black beans. So I had have a grapefruit and John opened up a can of black beans and had that. And then I wrapped up the other half of the grapefruit. And, and John clean, well rinsed out and dried off the empty can of black beans. And we put the wrapped up, half a grapefruit and the cleaned out box of can of black beans in his bag.

1 (34m 30s):
So, so the people wouldn't know that you had eaten

23 (34m 32s):
These things, we'd destroyed the evidence and this

1 (34m 35s):
And his insistence.

23 (34m 36s):
Yes, it was absurd. And then we watched tv, our hunger satisfied. And then the couple came home and we, you know, made small talk. And then John picked up his bag in the hallway and there was a sort of dull thud. And half the grapefruit fell out on the floor. And. I said, oh, that's mine. I'm sorry. I we're allowed to take a piece of fruit from the dining hall. And I had taken that grapefruit from the dining hall and that's why I have it here. And then they sort of said, oh, okay, okay, that's nice.

23 (35m 17s):
And then I put it back in John's bag and then John picked up his bag again. And I was, you guessed it, a clang and clanging out onto the floor, went this empty can of black beans. And when the can fell out on the floor, John said, oh, that's mine. I keep change in that. Like I keep change as if, as if that was less insane.

1 (35m 53s):
Act, Fourteen, Colin, Colonel Mustard for questioning or that's what happens if you don't use a condiment. Kids see all the stupid jokes that you end up telling if you have a story that takes place in a hotdog factory about hot dogs. Here we go.

24 (36m 7s):
My name is Jim Bodman and I'm the chairman of the Vienna Sausage Company in Chicago. And the building that we are currently standing in, which is on the north side of Chicago on Damon near the corner of Fullerton, was built around 1970.

1 (36m 24s):
This hotdog plant, Jim Bobman says, replaced the company's original facility.

24 (36m 28s):
So it was, it was put together in a Rube Goldberg kind of arrangement. so we moved into this building and this was a brand new state-of-the-art, stainless steel refrigeration is perfect spit clean building. And we started making our natural old world hickory smoke, natural casing hot dogs here. And it wasn't as good.

1 (36m 51s):
They tasted okay, he said, but they didn't have the right snap when you've been into them. And even worse, the color was wrong. The hot dogs were all pink instead of bright red. So they tried to figure out what was wrong. The ingredients were all the same, the spices were all the same, the process was all the same. Maybe it was the temperature and the smokehouse. Maybe the water on the north side of Chicago wasn't the same as the water on the south side. They searched, they searched for a year and a half, nothing checked out. Then one night a bunch of guys from the plant are out having a drink and gabbing about the good old days back in the old plant on Maxwell Street, they start talking about this guy named Irving. One of those guys who knows everybody in the plant has nicknames for everybody.

1 (37m 33s):
And listen to what Irving's job was. Every day he would weave his way with the uncooked sausages through the maze of passageways in the old plant.

24 (37m 42s):
He would go through the hanging bench, that's where we hang the pastrami pieces and it's quite warm. And he would go through the boiler room where we produced all the energy for the plant. He would go next to the tanks where we cooked the corn beef. Finally get around the corner in some cases, actually go up an elevator. And then he would be at the smokehouse. He would put it in the smokehouse and he would cook it.

1 (38m 2s):
And as we're telling stories about Irving, Irving, this Irving that a light bulb goes off in the fancy new modern plant. There was no Irving. Irving didn't want to commute to the north side. There was no maze of hallways. There was no half hour trip where the sausage would get worn before they would cook it in the new plant. They just stuffed the sausages in a cold room and cooked them in a smokehouse in the room next door to it. Irving's trip was the secret ingredient that made the hot dogs red so secret. Even the guys who ran the plant didn't know about it.

24 (38m 34s):
So we said, oh my God, that is of course the reason why didn't we know that that's the dumbest thing in the world to not realize it's, it's right there. How do we fix it? And the solution to the problem was the room that we're standing in right now. And this was a new addition put onto the plant about two years after we built the facility. So you

1 (38m 53s):
Had to build this

24 (38m 54s):
Room, this whole room. The outside bearing wall is that wall right there. We put this whole room on and in this room we emulate the old area of the old plant.

1 (39m 4s):
And, and so this room essentially is to simulate Irving.

24 (39m 8s):
That's exactly right. We should have called it Irving Irving's Corner.

1 (39m 13s):
It's warm in Irving's corner and it smells nice. Too smoky like hickory smoke and spices. Since I first heard this story years ago on a tour of this very plant, I found myself telling it now and then I think that what I love about it is the fact that these guys at the factory had done everything right, finally built their dream factory with the best equipment and expertise that money could buy. But you can't think of everything sometimes you have no idea why you were success in the first place.

1 (39m 56s):
Act Fifteen, Mr. Prediction in the mid 1980s, right outta college, David Rakoff moved to Japan and pretty soon ended up in this office job where he was convinced that he understood a secret about the company and its business that nobody else, not even the big bosses of the company could see. It was like that from the start.

4 (40m 15s):
Primarily the office was an advertising agency. But what they were setting up was this thing for expatriates who were living in Tokyo at the time, or perhaps all of Japan. And it was like a network on a computer. And they would set up a newsletter on the network and people could quote, log on to the computer and talk to one another or do research. And I was just, I don't know, I just looked around the room. And I saw these computers and could only think like what kind of loser would log onto a computer, talk to someone.

4 (40m 59s):
And in fact, that night in my diary I had written something like this is like those comic book enthusiasts who actually read the little instructions at the bottom of the panel that said, you know, for more on the green goblin, check out Spidey number 1 37, you know, from the editor. And in almost the only moment of decisiveness in my entire adult life, I've certainly never equaled this. I went in the next morning, And, I quit. And all I could think was like Ciara suckers. you know, good luck with your network.

4 (41m 39s):
And we know exactly what the network was. It was with the internet. I I, I have a negative capacity to identify trends. Like when in college I went to see Madonna at Danceteria, which was a club downtown like 1982 or whatever. And I thought, boy is she lousy?

1 (42m 11s):
Are, are there examples besides Madonna and the internet

4 (42m 14s):
Other than Madonna and the internet? You need another example. When I was an editorial assistant working in publishing, I was handed a manuscript to read And I. Think I wrote some sub literate, you know, borderline misogyny. An easy pass. And somebody thought, I'm just gonna take a look at this. Anyway, it was, men are from Mars, women are from Venus. These are not like me saying like, I don't think Alicia Silverstone's going to be very good and clueless. I mean these are like, you know,

1 (42m 48s):
Pretty big iconic ones.

4 (42m 50s):
Yeah. It's like, have you fellows heard that crazy lunatic in the marketplace in conveying against the Pharisees? He'll burn off like so much mourning fog. We'll never hear about him ever. you know, it's just like that

1 (43m 21s):
Did a rack off. The final book that he wrote before he died in 2012 is a book I just love. It's a novel in Rhymed couplets, love Dishonor Mary Die Cherish Perish. A novel by David Rakoff. You're listening to This American Life where today it is all about speed. We are what, 43 minutes into the program and we have already finished 15 Acts. And this brings us to Act Sixteen, that one guy at the office. So if you work at a big office, you know that there's always at least one person whose name you do not know in Jordanna's office. Matt is that guy for perhaps as best could figure half the people who work there. Jordanna will tell you about it.

26 (43m 59s):
Matt Ostro sits next to the printer in the busiest hallway at our office. People walk by him dozens of times a week on their way to retrieve printouts. And though he actually works in the new media department and has nothing to do with the printer, most people don't know this. It's his sad fate that most of his conversations at work are about. One thing,

27 (44m 18s):
Originally a lot of them were printer based. you know, why is this printer taking so long? Oh, paper's out. Oh, there's a printer jam. Some of it's never really left that genre of conversation, you know, they don't really expend too much. So a lot of it's just very superficial.

28 (44m 35s):
Hey, did you throw away any printouts here?

27 (44m 38s):
No. No I didn't. I didn't touch

28 (44m 40s):
Anything.

26 (44m 41s):
I'd been working in the office a few months when one day a friend called me and said he was hanging out with one of my coworkers who lived in his building, who I asked Matt. he said, I had no idea who that was. And said, so then I heard a voice in the background say, tell her I sit next to the printer. And that's when his predicament hit me. So I decided to survey my coworkers to see if they knew who he is, what his real job is. Do they even know his name?

29 (45m 7s):
No. I mean, I know his face very well. I stop, I chat, I say, hi, how are you? I grab, as I'm grabbing things off the printer, I ask him about his little electronic music devices and all that. We chitchat. And I'd say I do that probably about three or four times a day at least. But I have no idea what his name is.

26 (45m 25s):
I wondered if Matt was at all surprised by this.

27 (45m 28s):
Shocked. I honestly see him between 50 and 75 times a day. Like different intervals of time. At least that every day, every single day.

26 (45m 42s):
I'm wondering if you know the name of the guy that sits right out here in the hallway,

28 (45m 48s):
Is his name. I don't know, works on the web, right? Kind of.

26 (45m 56s):
And Matt's response.

27 (45m 57s):
I'm a little surprised 'cause I see her every day as well.

28 (46m 0s):
I,

26 (46m 1s):
I'm wondering if you know the name of the guy that sits in the hallway next to the printer.

30 (46m 8s):
I don't see anybody sitting in the hallway next to the printer. I didn't think we had anybody sitting next to the printer.

27 (46m 23s):
I've never had this kind of experience before. The whole situation is just ridiculous that I've been here for a year and a half almo pretty much every day. And there's still people who don't know my name or what I do. And it's a little bit weird. I could go through a pretty full day without talking to anyone besides, you know, the requests from the printer sometimes. That's it for me.

26 (46m 49s):
Matt says, the printer shows up in his dreams. Sometimes in his dreams. He'll be at a party waiting in line for the bathroom or at a parking lot at the beach people everywhere. And there will be the printer off to the side chugging away, occasionally jamming

1 (47m 13s):
Jordan Augustin in Boston. Act Seventeen. You can't choose your gift.

31 (47m 24s):
I'm Richard Carey And I have this one little talent. I don't know where it came from. And I. I i, it, it fears me to think that it, it's, it's something that I myself possess, but I'm able to make the entire sound of a swamp and And I will attempt to do so. Now, I'm not sure I'm prepared at this moment, but I'll I'll give you the, the sound of a swamp And Don don't know why, but it seems to be really important at parties.

1 (48m 9s):
Richard Carey talked to James Seltzer, Act Eighteen party talk. Here's Writer Chuck Klosterman. This was a conversation that happened to me at a party two years ago. At one point in the conversation, I suddenly found it necessary to mention that journey was rock's version of the TV show Dynasty. This prompted a spirited debate. We then dubbed Monkees Equals Monkees. The goal of this game is to figure out which television show is the closest philosophical analogy to a specific rock and roll band. And the criteria are mind-blowingly complex. It's a combination of longevity, era, critical acclaim, commercial success, and most importantly the aesthetic soul of each artistic entity.

1 (48m 58s):
For example, the Rolling Stones are gun smoke. The strokes key for Sutherlands 24 Jimi Hendrix was the Twilight Zone. Devo was Fernwood tonight Lynyrd Skynyrd was the Beverly Hillbillies, which makes Molly Hatchet Petco Junction. The black crows are that seventies show. Paul Oates were Buzz and buddies. U2 is mash because both kind of got preachy at the end. Dawkin was Jason Bateman's short-lived sitcom. It's your move. The Eurythmics were Mor and Mindy. We even deduced comparisons for soul projects, which can only be made to series that were spawned as spinoffs.

1 (49m 40s):
The four Beatles post 1970 are as follows. John Equals mod, Paul Equals Frazier, George Equals, the Jeffersons and Ringo Equals flow. David Le Roth's solo period after Van Halen was not landing. So there's proof Marijuana makes you smarter. Chuck Sterman reading from his book, sex, drugs and Cocoa Puffs, A Low Culture Manifesto. His most recent book is the nineties. A book Act Nineteen The Hard Life at the Top.

1 (50m 21s):
Here's a ritual that takes place every summer. On the last day of June, 1200 new Army cadets, mostly teenagers, survivors of one of the most exhausting application processes in the country arrive at West Point. And then in the space of one morning they're separated from their parents. Their clothes are taken away, their hair is taken away, they're weighed, they're measured, they're issued a bag and army uniform and underwear. They take the oath of office. And then here is the first act they have as non civilians. All they have to do is say a single sentence. Once they get it said they can go to their barracks. But, not until then, David Lipsky spent four years writing about these guys and describes what happens each year.

27 (51m 0s):
The drill is simple. The new cadets have to step up to a tape line, drop their bags and make their report to upper upperclassmen wearing red sashes. You will walk up to the line, the red sashes tell them and you'll say, sir, new cadet Dough reports to the cadet in the red sash for the first time as ordered, the new cadets swallow nod their heads and then the screwing up begins. This cadet is so nervous he doesn't realize he's supposed to Swap his own name for doe. Sir New

32 (51m 27s):
Cadet do reports to new cadet Red Sash. No sir. Then say your name. New cadet. Yes sir.

27 (51m 34s):
Is your last name doe The red sash screams? No sir says the new cadet. Then say your name. New cadet says the Red sash words count even Footwork counts. New cadet clinker. A jittery 18-year-old female cadet finds this out when she steps a little too far forward, sir.

32 (51m 51s):
New cadet clinker, new cadet. Look where you're standing. I told you to step up to my line. You better learn how to followers. New cadet you

27 (51m 56s):
Stand. The red sash asks her to do it again. This time she stands in the right place, but she's forgotten what to say,

32 (52m 2s):
Sir. New I your portion. I'm telling you to drop it back. You dropped back. Are you showing emotion? Did I just see a smile come across your face? No sir. You're like a rock. Maintain your military discipline at all times. You understand Cade? Yes sir. Report

27 (52m 14s):
For these specially selected red sashes. Breaking in the new cadets is a great honor. The day before they've even practiced being hard on local civilians. In a full rehearsal Every year, a bunch of teachers sons, daughters groundskeepers from around town sign up for a fun day as practice cadets Every year a handful. Leave in tears sir.

32 (52m 33s):
New cadet McLeod are pointing to the cadet in the reds. First time salute

27 (52m 39s):
New cadet McLeod stutters. On his first attempt, he's asked to drop his salute and start over. On this one day, almost 1200 young men and women will make the report. If everyone did it right the first time, it would take about an hour. I don't see anyone go through the first time it takes all day. New cadet McLeod tries again, but the words won't come.

32 (53m 1s):
Sir. New Cadet McLeod. New salute. Are you a new cadet or are you a new cadet?

27 (53m 7s):
Drop your salute. The red sash tells him, are you a new cadet or a new cadet? New cadet? He says, forgetting the sir. New

32 (53m 14s):
Cadet. New cadet. Are you gonna put a sir on that?

27 (53m 18s):
Poor new cadet McLeod has already screwed up twice to get here. He spent 18 years excelling in nearly every way he can in schoolwork and athletics at student council meetings, he's beaten his way to the top of the 50,000 applicants who fill out requests for information forms. He's been interviewed by senators, congressmen, and now here he is in the last place he ever thought he'd find himself a sudden death play audition. He only has to say one line. He draws a breath, tries one more time. And after letting go of his family, his hair, his clothes, he drops the last vestige of his civilian life. He forgets his own name.

32 (53m 55s):
Sir

1 (54m 11s):
David Lipsky. His book following one cadet class at West Point for four years is called Absolutely American. His most recent book is The Parrot in the Glue Climate and the Science of n Act Twenty. The greatest moment I ever saw on the stage. I'll say first all that this moment that I saw caught me completely off guard. I was at a play where I was not expecting anything special. It was put on by an organization that works with teenagers, story catchers, theater is what it's called. And among other things, they get kids who are locked up in Chicago's Juvenile detention Center, the Audi home to write and perform musicals about their lives.

1 (54m 51s):
This one was performed by Teenage girls. Okay, so we're in the detention center. Folding chairs have been set up. The girl's parents, it's mostly mothers and grandmothers. Very few men are sitting directly in front of the stage. And imagine for a minute what it's like to be one of those parents. Okay? Your kid's locked up possibly on very serious charges. Some of these girls were, you're worried about what's gonna happen to them next. You're probably still mad that they didn't listen to you in the first place and got into all this trouble and ended up behind bars. What can theater possibly do for you in this situation? you know, it seems like such an old fashioned idea that it can do anything.

1 (55m 31s):
So there's this one scene in the play. Where

33 (55m 35s):
Do you get these clothes

1 (55m 35s):
From? And it's a story of this girl named Candace. And Candace basically wanted better clothes so the other kids at school wouldn't laugh at her. That's why she steals some clothes from Nike Town. and she gets in trouble. She gets caught and then she joins a gang to earn some money and be more popular. Her mom finds some drugs in the house and a gun and feels completely betrayed because that was not how she raised her daughter. And one thing leads to another and Candace gets locked up. Then the girl narrating this story says, and this is how Candace feels about her mom now. And then all the girls in the play come out on the stage and stand in a line facing their mothers and grandmothers who are right there in front of them.

33 (56m 17s):
Mama, I'm sorry for what?

2 (56m 24s):
I was arrested in Indian up here in the home. Oh, I'm sorry for putting, you know the, I'm ready to come back home. I'm willing to make a change.

1 (56m 55s):
One of the verses goes, mama, I'm sorry for making you come to court from us. Losing your job to gimme moral support. Mama, I'm sorry for putting you through all this stress. For making you worry yourself and depressed. I'm ready to come back home. I'm willing to make a change. And by this time, the girls are all crying. Their parents are all crying and each girl has a cutout, you know, like little heart like on Valentine's Day, like that made from red construction paper like the size of your, your palm and written on each one is the words. I'm sorry. And each girl goes out into the audience to where her mom is sitting or her grandma is sitting and hands her the heart and the parents are crying and the kids are crying and everybody is hugging.

1 (57m 40s):
It was really something.

2 (57m 51s):
Please forget Mama. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry mama

1 (58m 4s):
Here. They were not just saying this to their mothers, but saying it publicly in front of the world, in front of their friends saying this thing that could be so hard to say in any case, you know, singing it out and hoping that it can heal something that is gonna be hard to heal no matter what you do.

2 (58m 29s):
Sorry.

1 (58m 42s):
And that's our show for today, 20 Acts in 60 Minutes. Thanks today to Organic Public Media, WCI and WN, our website. this American life dot org This American Life is delivered to public radio stations by PRX, the public radio exchange. Thanks as always. To our program's Co-founder Mr. Troy Malatia remembers all the way back, back to when we started the show.

19 (59m 3s):
I think it was right around the time we had this big fight about gumballs, which I'm not gonna get into 'cause it's pretty embarrassing.

1 (59m 9s):
I remember glass back next week with more stories of This American, Life.