4 (1s):
Support for This American Life comes from third love third love uses data points generated by millions of women who have taken their fit finder quiz to design bras with a perfect fit and premium feel to find your perfect fitting bra and get a discount on your first purchase go to third love.com / American and from the Capital One Walmart Rewards Card. Earn 5% back at Walmart online 2% at Walmart in store at restaurants. It's and on travel and 1% everywhere else the Capital One Walmart Rewards Card. What's in your wallet terms and exclusions apply? In Danielle's house ever since she was a girl when holiday dinners come they serve a meal that probably look familiar to you picture main course big platter drumsticks white breast meat golden brown skin stuffing and gravy and cranberry relish on the side.

4 (59s):
And they Danielle's family. They have a name for this meal. Fishy told me on the phone recently the name of this meal is at that fish. Well from WBEZ Chicago, this is American Life a special program today on the wonders of fish.

3 (1m 26s):
Actually, we can say the word

4 (1m 27s):
here and the word is poultry. And as you know each week on our program, we choose some theme invite a variety of writers and performers to tackle that theme and this week as we stand now in that magical five weeks of the year that magical five weeks between the turkey served at Thanksgiving the turkey served at Christmas. . When Americans consume nearly 1/4 of all the turkey consumed in this country every year. And for years on this program during this important time of year This American Life would bring you yet another program about poultry today. We're going back to stories from some of those very old episodes for that's right stories about turkeys chickens Ducks, foul of all kind and their mysterious hold over us.

4 (2m 27s):
I'm Ira Glass coming up this hour Act One ducky the story of a typical American family and imaginary poultry back to what poultry positive program would be complete without. Yes, indeed in the late 1960s the wing it Warrior struck Terror in the hearts of evil doers on radios all across this great nation today. My friends keep flies again that three chicken diva in that act and Opera about Chicken Little sung in Italian and no kidding able to make a grown man cry that for trying to respect the chicken the story of one woman's quest to try to give chickens the honor and the dignity that they are rarely accorded even though the chickens resistor efforts stay with us.

4 (3m 39s):
At one ducky. So in Danielle's family the power of poetry is so great in their lives when they serve chicken or turkey they call it that's right and they call it this for a reason and the reason has to do with a stuffed hand puppet called ducky now Danielle is a woman over 30 years old her sister Ashley is two years. He's younger ducky has been in the family since they were

1 (4m 4s):
children. Well, he was a Christmas present when Ashley was about eight and I was about 10 and when he first arrived he was really fluffy and he was this beautiful fluffy white duck and he had a cape on and black kind of villain / hero goggles. He lost he lost. Outfit pretty quickly and he went naked and and then he became asses vehicle for torturing me.

4 (4m 46s):
It's not unusual for older siblings to dominate younger ones and his children Danielle dominated Ashley as she looked up to Danielle fought to get her attention and her approval and Daniel always. Always got her way. Except when donkey was around. Basically Ashley wood. Channel I mean it's kind of an anachronism in this context, but she would Channel ducky she would become duckies voice. She would speak as ducky and ducky was sarcastic ducky was selfish and bossy ducky would insult Danielle that he would tease Danielle.

4 (5m 27s):
That he would give her painful nose squeaks.

1 (5m 30s):
Whatever Ashley kind of brought back into the equation. He was completely the dominant Force. Like I was just putty and duckies hands. Let me ask you to compare his personality with Ashley's personality as is very kind of considerate and he's very considerate and kind and thoughtful and very very sensitive to other people very very concerned about if other people are happy. And someone or someone else doesn't feel good or and ducky is has this total like you know, what's for lunch attitude? Like what's in it for me in your face totally out for himself simultaneously a braggart in a total wimp.

4 (6m 18s):
He's boastful and

1 (6m 19s):
vain. He's just this indomitable. Yeah indomitable spirit.

4 (6m 35s):
All right. I've been at Danielle's apartment sometimes and I've witnessed following scene picture, please Danielle has not spoken with her sister in weeks. She picks up the phone cause Ashley and Michigan Ashley answers. Danielle is immediately can you put Ducky on? And then Ashley essentially, you know becomes ducky put Stuckey on the phone Daniel talks to ducky for 15-20 minutes. And then they both hang up. That's the whole conversation and they both feel satisfied. These are these are adult Danielle is an editor at a big New York Magazine.

1 (7m 18s):
I adore ducky. I really love ducky and sometimes I think like if he disappeared it would really feel like someone died. I mean I look at him and he looks really kind of old and ratty and it really makes me sad it kind of really I feel like I mean It sounds crazy. I mean I really it really makes me sad to think about like a world without ducky and it would be a big empty hole in the world. He kind of takes up as much room in my heart is like a lot of people individually and I would I would if he if something happened to him, you know, if he were like lost in an airport or kind of run over by a car.

1 (7m 58s):
I would be I mean, it would really be heartbreaking.

4 (8m 6s):
So habits. Come in clear why if you eat dinner in the home of Danielle's family if the serving some kind of poultry chicken or turkey if you ask anybody in the family what's for dinner? They'll tell you this, right and and and the rationale for that is

1 (8m 21s):
what big sticky out. It freaks them out though, because you don't like him to know that

4 (8m 27s):
that perhaps some birds are in fact eaten.

1 (8m 30s):
I think he knows I think he's in denial about it. He's in denial about most things. He's in denial about the fact that he's totally Ali like a week in tiny and dirty he thinks he's really good looking and strong and ladies really smart and has led a friends right? He's in denial about the fact that he's actually stuffed. Sometimes I tell him that I said Becky give me a break you just stop and he's like no

3 (9m 2s):
way

4 (9m 12s):
now. I thought it would try to book ducky. Come on the radio for this program. So I contacted Danielle sister Ashley and asked her, you know, Kentucky come on the air. I received an answer back not by phone, but by electronic mail that for ducky to appear I'd have to first go through someone named Jonah Lou Who I could reach through Danielle and Ashley's mother. When I talked to Danielle, I asked her about this. I've been informed that the only way that I can reach him is by calling your mom and speaking to yonah Lou to have that name

1 (9m 45s):
right? You know? Yeah. Yeah, I think that's she's acting as his agent, you know Lou is she's a hedgehog.

4 (9m 56s):
Anything special that I should say to you know who to make this

1 (9m 59s):
what she I mean, I don't know. She's a pretty she drives a pretty hard bargain. Hello, here's here's why I

4 (10m 8s):
called you. I want to do a little story on the radio about ducky. Ducky, and and I contacted your daughter Ashley and she said that for me to book Ducky on to my radio show. I was going to first need to contact your own

1 (10m 25s):
Alou. Yeah. Yeah, you would need to do that and that I needed to do that through you. Yeah, who is Yona will you don't know Lou is she's kind of up to the Hedgehog. See she's basically taken charge of Ducky's financial affairs. And I presume this has something to do with money.

4 (10m 47s):
Why I don't know actually, I mean that we

1 (10m 50s):
that's probably why she said to contact the owner Lew well, so what do I do now? I'm

4 (10m 54s):
calling she said I was cute told to contact you and if I wanted to get in touch with you. Oh, no Lulu in order to book

1 (11m 0s):
ducky. What do I do? Next book ducky? Okay, you got a book ducky. That's that's how idea I want to book ducky for the show for an interview. Well, I'll just talk to you a little about it. She says, okay. It's okay, and we only want to discuss

4 (11m 17s):
terms or something

1 (11m 19s):
shouldn't

4 (11m 19s):
talk. So what's going to happen? All right. Should I call you

1 (11m 26s):
back? You could call me back or I just go go in and check you'll just go in and check. Yeah, should I wait? Yeah. All right, I'll wait. All right. Yeah, this is just radio. Yeah, not TV. It's just radio. And nobody's going to get to be on TV.

4 (11m 57s):
No, no one's going to be on TV. No, it's strictly radio

1 (12m 1s):
Okay, yellow doesn't care what happens then what if it were TV, I think she'd want to be on to I mean radio doesn't do much for her can't talk.

3 (12m 19s):
All right

4 (12m 20s):
as you might imagine. Not everybody in the family takes all this so lightly Daniel's father was never too keen on

1 (12m 27s):
this. He was quite actually bothered by the holy thought we maybe had a problem in the family, really. I mean they're her well that we had two daughters only communicated through a duct. Yeah that period that you're describing what when do you mean I would say they may be or 10 and 12 are 9 and 11 and

4 (12m 49s):
they would only communicate through the

1 (12m 51s):
duck. Well, Danielle didn't pay a whole lot of attention to Ashley, but she paid quite a lot of attention to the duck. Yuck. So if Ashley wanted to get Danielle's attention. All you have to do is rev up the duck.

4 (13m 13s):
How long did this

1 (13m 13s):
last? I can't remember. If you also make Daniel left that way. Right, then you'll have ducky was very funny, but I can't remember her thinking Ashley was funny in terms of the relationship between my sister and me. I don't know why I mean this is probably completely really sick, but I have so much kind of genuine affection and love for ducky that it's very easy to get in and it's very easy to demonstrate those feelings in a way that it's not as easy to kind of demonstrate those feelings toward my sister just because we never kind of got in the habit of it

4 (13m 56s):
what percentage of your relationship with your sister is based on your relationship with ducky.

1 (14m 1s):
Well a really fun part of it is based on my relationship with ducky but I think as we've gotten older and older Gotten kind of Moore's more and more self-conscious about like the ducky factor in our relationship. And but I think I think kind of a big chunk. I mean it definitely kind of gives me this Vision into her brain that I wouldn't have. Otherwise.

4 (14m 32s):
I did finally snag an interview with

3 (14m 34s):
ducky

4 (14m 37s):
by calling Ashley. This is Ducky still up for

1 (14m 40s):
this. Yeah, he just got back from a party though. He just got back from a party. Yeah, he was at a happy hour thing on with a lot of college students do not in college, but he's in the band. So of his friends God is happy hour on Friday

4 (14m 58s):
night it will could you get him

1 (15m 1s):
a sure? He's okay. Yes. Hey ducky. Yeah,

4 (15m 11s):
I'm just fine. Long time. No see right back at you and Welcome to our little radio program.

1 (15m 19s):
Respond to my

4 (15m 20s):
well, we actually have a number of different people

1 (15m 23s):
like Tom Cruise.

4 (15m 26s):
They're just like Tom Cruise. Yeah. Yeah that tugging at I was talking to Danielle for our radio program and had her come on and talk about you a little bit and one of the things that she said was that when she was younger in order to discipline her if she was doing something that you didn't like you could pretty much control her with something called nose squeaks.

1 (15m 47s):
Yeah. Prominent know it's you know, I mean that sticks out and just want to squeak it, you know, I love Thanksgiving. We're watching The Muppet Show. Yeah and Miss Piggy with on and she reminded me a lot of melee

4 (16m 2s):
of Danielle.

1 (16m 4s):
Yeah and come out told Miss Piggy move the park and saw Tanya it moves Park. Are we in which you move? Yes. You were see what now if Ashley would tell her which if a she

4 (16m 16s):
would sit down on the couch and say to Danielle move the port what? the effect of that,

1 (16m 20s):
baby Kind of, you know, you know me, you know how she looks at you when she's doesn't approve of something you say or do she gets this kind of ice-cold stare and she gives you the sidelong glance that makes you kind of feel like you're about the size of a pea. Yeah. That's what she does.

4 (16m 44s):
Is there anything about the life of a dark that that perhaps you could tell our radio audience that we might not know, you know the I'm sure that you know much more about it than we do

1 (16m 53s):
know the whole senior when I had time. I used to migrate once in a while because I have some fun to a duck's and the trial I keep in touch with them. But lately I've just started spending more time like people. Done my own thing and I just don't have time to do those kind of like dark things anymore. I just wanted more of my life than that.

4 (17m 27s):
yucky stuff hand puppet now lives in Sharon,

3 (17m 30s):
Connecticut If you're a good musician, so if you happen to be just passing by stopping at the Saturday night fish, right? Well not in

4 (18m 2s):
but the story of a 27 year old graduate student who talks like a duck naturally brings us to the story. Of chicken man to command for sword the radio Airwaves from 1966 to 1969 nearly every day. There would be a new episode. Usually these like short little things like each one was like two minutes long starting on wucf l in Chicago, but spreading to over 1,500 radio stations according to the people who Syndicate chicken man. It's been translated into German. It's dutch Swedish chicken man to command existed years before national public. Existed as a national network chicken man will continue probably two years after were all gone.

4 (18m 43s):
Like the mighty cockroach. Like I don't know like the bagel like however to command and doors will endure when I was a kid ticket man was the only thing I ever heard on the radio that I loved. The only thing I look forward to when the radio nothing was closed when I first started making radio when I was a teenager everything I made was an imitation of chicken man. All right. Let me put you on

3 (19m 14s):
another exciting episode in the life of the most fantastic crimefighter. The world has ever known.

4 (19m 30s):
Benton Harbor employed as a shoe salesman for a large downtown department store Spends His weekends is only two days off striking Terror into the hearts of criminals everywhere as The White Winged Warrior called chicken man. How did it come about that? Benton Harbor weekend winged Warrior selected the VIS each of the chicken in his Crusade against the forces of evil now, it can be told

3 (19m 55s):
Yes, may I help you? How do you do? I'm looking for a

2 (19m 58s):
costume. What did you have in mind something that will strike Terror into the hearts of criminals

1 (20m 3s):
everywhere. Well, how about

4 (20m 5s):
this? No, I don't think

1 (20m 6s):
so. Why not try it on but I well here I help you. Thank you. There. You are not take a look in the

2 (20m 12s):
mirror. Mmm. Not bad. I wonder if you would permit me to conduct a quick experiment outside the store

1 (20m 18s):
certainly.

3 (20m 26s):
Pardon me, sir. Are you by chance a vicious criminal? Uh-huh fine. Would you take a look at this cost you by worrying? Yeah. Do you feel anything strange anything at all? Yeah. And what is that? I'd like to kiss you kiss me. Yeah, how do you account for that? Because you look like an adorable bunny rabbit. Well, how did it go?

4 (20m 55s):
What else do you

1 (20m 56s):
have a teddy bear and a chicken

2 (20m 58s):
a teddy bear would be cute wrap up the chicken,

4 (21m 2s):
please

3 (21m 3s):
the listening tomorrow for another exciting episode in the life of the most fantastic crimefighter. The world has ever known.

4 (21m 22s):
I love these you another we have time for another you would hear another the thing I love is that how completely low-key the performances are. It's like they're not even trying. It's a complete aesthetic. All right. Let's let's hear one more before we continue with the next ACT.

3 (21m 42s):
Another exciting episode in the life of the most fantastic crimefighter the world has ever known. the office of the police

4 (22m 0s):
commissioner of Midland

3 (22m 2s):
City Hello, this is the

2 (22m 6s):
commercial figure. This is the winged

1 (22m 8s):
Warrior. Yes, what is in please inform the commissioner that I'm no all set for Tessa's sequence. Number one what it's all primed and ready to go. What are you talking about? The chicken missile was helping her chicken missile. Yes. So tell the commissioner. I'm ready for testing Quince. Number

3 (22m 22s):
one

1 (22m 23s):
Christmas Health anger commissioner. The chicken missile is ready to go. Huh? The chicken missile. Oh, yes, of course the and is ready for test sequence number one.

2 (22m 34s):
Sequence

1 (22m 35s):
number one number one. Well, that's very nice. Very nice. Yes, Wayne Warrior here was holding her the commissioner said that's very nice. Oh fine, but case was helping her have the Commissioners down by with a chicken missile receiver what I'm going to count down. Listen. We'll see what $1,400. Hello wet. Here's my selfing. I'm commissioner. Yes. If I would say to you prepare the chicken missile receiver would you know when I didn't think you would commissioner Yes, I would suggest that you crouch under your

2 (23m 7s):
desk out under my desk.

3 (23m 8s):
Yes. It should provide some protection. Wow. Say that chicken missile really works Nifty will the Midland City Fire Department recommend that a chicken missile receiver be installed in what's left of Midland City Hall be listening tomorrow for another exciting episode in the life of the most fantastic crimefighter.

3 (23m 53s):
The world has ever known.

4 (24m 5s):
Thanks very much to the Creator and voice of chicken, man. Mr. Dick Orkin. I remember when I first called him to ask permission to replay these stories on our show and how weird it was to talk to him on the phone after all my years of loving chicken man, because he sounds just like chicken man. It was weird. Over the years I would talk to him now and then and finally got over that feeling and I am very sorry to say that he died in 2017 dick Wilkins daughter. Lisa is currently trying to find a home on the internet for the chicken man archive Spotify Pandora you listening to this. If you would like updates on where you can hear Chicken Man someday go to her website Lisa or can creative.com coming up.

4 (24m 50s):
It ain't over till the fat chicken sings that's in a minute from Chicago public radio when our program continues. Support for This American Life comes from third love more than 14 million women have taken their fit finder quiz to find the perfect fitting bra from third loves more than 80 sizes including their signature half cup sizes plus third loves team of expert fit stylus are dedicated to helping you find your perfect fit via text chat or phone you have 60 days to put it to the test. And if you don't love it return it and third level wash it and donate it to a woman in need to find your perfect fitting bra. And get a discount on your first purchase go to third love.com American.

4 (25m 34s):
That's third love.com / American. And from the new Capital One Walmart Rewards Card, earn 5% back at Walmart online games for the kids headphones for Dad a laptop for Mom. Doesn't matter you get 5% back at Walmart online. You'll also earn 2% at Walmart in store at restaurants and on travel and 1% everywhere else when you want all that you need the Capital One Walmart Rewards Card what's in your wallet terms and exclusions apply Capital One en

1 (26m 7s):
a

4 (26m 9s):
It's This American Life. I'm Ira Glass each week at a program. Of course, we choose a theme bring you a variety of different kinds of stories on that theme Today Show during this period of greatest poultry consumption in our nation the weeks between Thanksgiving and Christmas. We bring you stories of chickens turkeys Ducks fav of all kind real and imagined we've done this poultry show so many times year after year in November that Today's Show is basically a greatest hits of chicken stories from many many years past. We've arrived it at three of our program at three chicken Devo. Chickens are what we make of them in a lot of ways.

4 (26m 49s):
If you could possibly need further evidence of that after those first two acts, we just heard we have this story from Jack yet. Oddly enough. It wasn't Susan who was obsessed with chickens. It was Kenny a pal who work backstage at the 92nd Street Y in New York, his house was filled with chicken cups chicken masks. He got the whole staff on two chickens including Susan for a time. They're in the 80s poultry related jokes and references became the fast way to get a laugh at the Y. I guess most of us are condemned to see nothing more than the easy comedy of chickens. But Susan for to she saw something else their potential greatness. They're hidden Beauty their Grandeur one day.

4 (27m 30s):
She glued together some finger puppets for a 10-minute rendition of the Chicken Little story for her nephew that was 14 years ago today. It is a full-length Opera enjoyed by a cult following whenever it goes up in a workshop or cafe or small theater. It's still perform with finger puppets. Now it has a complete score written by noted composer Henry Krieger who did Dreamgirls the Chicken Little Opera. He wrote with Susan Lucci is called loves foul. Needless to say, that's fo WL. Well, we were going to start with the opening. Siamo Del Teatro. Repertory eau de la maleta. We are the clothespin Repertory Theater and we have a special singing guest for you, which I don't know what Susan and I are sitting at Henry's baby grand piano.

4 (28m 17s):
Henry's guest has Maltese Terrier named Toby perhaps Toby would be kind enough to join us to sit on your lap. Yeah. No. Yeah, let's see what we can do. Okay. Okay, listen carefully because once told me gets going he actually harmonizes with Henry and Susan,

3 (28m 35s):
yeah. Come here below.

4 (28m 56s):
You may have noticed that this libretto is an Italian just like a real

2 (28m 60s):
Opera before was just a bunch of Puppets in a box, you know with a good idea and then suddenly as soon as it went into Italian it became something bigger than what it had been

1 (29m 10s):
and it's because when it's in English,

2 (29m 14s):
we all kind of know it and it's really not that interesting. It was like, yeah. Yeah, as soon as it's in Italian, it gives us enough distance that we can come in, you know makes us use like the the lover who doesn't want you. You don't want anybody more than you want the one who doesn't want you,

1 (29m 32s):
right? And so then it's sort of the same thing

3 (29m 36s):
over so long with another me come gently dates. Hyung qt3 and she didn't want to live anymore. Hello Maury Levy,

4 (30m 1s):
you may recall that when you last heard of little back in kindergarten. She was just an average Barn Door foul, but an acorn dropping her head, which he mistakenly understood to be the sky falling her alarms excited her friends Goosey Lucy turkey. Turkey and ducky lucky and they join her for a journey to the king to tell him the important news on the way. They meet up with Sly Fox Littles Pals eagerly accept his invitation for dinner literally as it turns out fortunately for little hunger is not enough to distract her from her Mission and she tracks on when she meets the king he tells her that the sky's not falling. It's just an acorn. So the enlightened Chicken Little returns to her Coop and that's where the story ends.

4 (30m 44s):
What do we do take away from Littles experience? I like to think it's that little is rewarded with life precisely because she went off on this quixotic Mission totally in the grip of a wrong

3 (30m 55s):
idea see characters in your undies in your past and Yamaha, Michi and yoora more ale I'm down. I'm down on

4 (31m 12s):
the children's fable barely figures into the story. It's just one small episode in the life of Chicken Little now known as La Poochyena pecola after the acorn incident she goes on to become an internationally renowned figure in almost every field imaginable Diva politics academe theater art derring-do like Veena she arrives from some of the world transported on a scallop shell but the triumphs of her life begin after youthful love affair with a fighting cock ends bitterly and she consoled herself as we all do at some point in our lives by plunging into Shakespeare. She becomes an overnight sensation as an actress celebrated all over the world for one roll Juliet Cleopatra Ophelia

1 (31m 54s):
company, then performs a an excerpt of

3 (31m 58s):
re-creation of the her signature

1 (31m 60s):
role, which is Richard the Third. Well, you know, I mean Sarah Bernhardt did

4 (32m 9s):
Hamlet. Well, there's a great tradition of women playing the men's roles in Shakespeare, but I think Richard III's one of the more rare roles to be played by a

1 (32m 17s):
woman. Well, that's how adventuresome

3 (32m 20s):
an actress this chicken was. I can assure you

4 (32m 28s):
there's nothing like watching a 4 inch tall finger puppet crying out a horse a horse my kingdom For a horse in Italian not to mention that that puppet is a chicken surrounded by a whole Supporting Cast of poultry and other avian supernumerary. He's Susan says that artistically there's something special about

3 (32m 47s):
chickens. There are clean slate

2 (32m 50s):
there. Are you can put anything on them. You can project anything under them because it's not like they have to me at least a very strong personality

4 (32m 60s):
except for Allah Poochyena and the Opera she moves into the the field of archaeology Masters it needless to say and makes a great discovery the last term of Gallup otra. But not before she sails the Seven Seas is Shipwrecked gets rescued but it's by Pirates and then she meets the pirate king as he soon as he meets her falls in love with her because of

2 (33m 22s):
her sweet spirit because she comes in and she says here you see a little chicken who although I'm dripping wet. I'm proud and

4 (33m 32s):
yellow. Let me repeat that lyric for you and a pure translation. Although I stand before you a chicken who is dripping wet. I am proud and I am yellow. Okay back to Citizen

2 (33m 46s):
and although I've loved and I have lost I have learned to follow the call of Adventure. So let's say

3 (33m 53s):
Lon.

4 (34m 11s):
keep in mind that all of the action like everything that occurs in every Susan for Tucci production ever since the first one for her nephew and continuing to this day occurs among characters created by sticking a small painted Styrofoam ball onto a larger painted Styrofoam ball poking into map tax for eyes gluing on a tiny felt beak and then impaling the whole thing on top of one of those really old fashioned clothes pins that a 40s cartoon figure would clamp to his nose and a chunk of Limburger cheese, and I could go on One Susan has written or she puts it translated La Cucina Piccolo has Diaries which detail the other Adventures that happen in between those in the Opera?

4 (35m 17s):
They're 60 pages. So far excerpts of which have appeared in clotheslines. The official fan club newsletter of the Opera loves foul has a strange effect on people. I didn't understand it until Susan loan me a videotape of one performance to be honest. I thought I would be annoyed at the intentional irony and oakiness of the puppets. But there I was with my three-year-old daughter loved the show watching a plastic bird pantomime one of the simplest human moments, but also one of the most profound the confession of a great love in this case with a Cock Robin the song that she sings As She enters

2 (35m 53s):
goes I am a chicken and ready for love. My heart is As fragile as the egg from which I was born Treat Me Gently and so will I treat you together from Earthly love we will reach for the Divine and then she sings I'm a chicken and I can't fly without love

4 (36m 10s):
my heart. My heart is strong as the egg from which I was

2 (36m 14s):
born and so forth and so it is a only with Cock Robin that she flies.

3 (36m 24s):
The quest the quest. Well, I'm off. I'll teach him

4 (36m 46s):
and after they have agreed to fly together and they're soaring in the air Cock. Robin is shot and killed. Murdered by a jealous Sparrow. I couldn't believe it but I was getting choked up. Especially when Cock Robin appeared on the stage as styrofoam body spray painted black for the lament his little magic marker eyes drawn his exes. I gathered my daughter my arms and held on tight as I was helplessly drawn into an expression of the grief and suffering of this little sad bird in this era of slick special effects. There was something unexpectedly liberating in the marriage of this crude medium painted styrofoam balls, Bobby. A up and down behind a cardboard box and the high melodramatic art of Italian opera picture it

3 (37m 29s):
okay. So going on but you know, I didn't you bad energy Amore Mio have this o is so Spirit of his soul on the let me know if I got my canteen what what I mean? Jewel Staite. Yeah, just eat. Yeah.

4 (38m 3s):
I want a subscription to that newsletter. Are you going to do this? I mean, are you going to be working with Poochyena Piccolo? I think for the rest of your

2 (38m 10s):
life. It's possible and I like working with her because I get to go into a

1 (38m 16s):
world. That's that's

2 (38m 18s):
inhabited by a very sweet

1 (38m 19s):
spirit and play

2 (38m 21s):
with With that were the mechanics of the world and because it's very small like I could never have afforded to produce this show with people but I could afford to do it with clothespins so I can do as big a production as I want with clothespins. I can have stuff fly in and out and come in from traps and I can have all kinds of fancy flashy stuff that cost millions of dollars to do on Broadway and you know cost me $200. Is because I had to buy lots and lots and lots of Styrofoam and clothespins and stuff and all this in a new table maybe

1 (38m 58s):
and I get to do whatever I

3 (38m 60s):
want Jack hit

4 (39m 15s):
these days. He's the co-host of the wonderful Peabody award-winning podcast uncivil, which and I know how this is going to sound it. Tells the hidden stories of the civil war with the same schwa de vivre that you just heard in that story about Chicken Little.

3 (39m 27s):
Sorry about that old. Shanyna one viaggio Chau

4 (39m 34s):
DOC for trying to respect the chicken. Sure. It's one thing to take a fictional character like Chicken Little and make her into a star try doing that with a real chicken. Just try.

2 (39m 47s):
Well, these are photographs of chickens. The first one here is a Silver Laced Wyandotte. It's a black and white bird essentially, but the tail feathers have a lot of iridescent green coloring in the world where chickens get no respect Tamara staple streets in the way the humans treat those we Revere most she takes their portraits lovingly. Her shots are like fashion photographs beautifully lit color backdrops the beautiful scene of the first one looked we go but now you've just turned to one where it almost looks like. It's like a clown I like Books comic it's a model who Dan which I always sort of called like the Phyllis Diller chicken, which is like got the chicken does look like Phyllis Diller.

2 (40m 35s):
It does. It's the Hat, you know, it looks like it's got this huge feathered hat sort of thing in a strange body shape and like the way it's like Karma Staples is running an odd little cross-species science experiment when that has this question what happens when you try to treat a chicken? Way we treat humans. Even if it's just for the length of a photo shoot what happens it turns out is that you learn just with the thin line is that divides human beings from birds? All right, maybe such a thin line, but it's definitely line and like most City people. I had never thought about it about where it lays about what it might be. What am I consists of until Tamara and I headed out to a farm.

2 (41m 26s):
I think that is the best time to get dirty or anything. It doesn't matter who runs loose every day finder. Yeah, we can figure out we're gonna have to get him to we have to Wrangle them. You know, right the Davidson's dairy farm about an hour and a half north west of Chicago family members present Paul who's helping Tamara choose a bird to photograph his sister Laura who's studying photography? Nearby University the grandfather George Karen's veteran breeder the father dick who seems the most skeptical this whole project. But who patiently shows Tamara and her assistant dentist the milking Barn as possible place to set up and shoot kind of an area you're looking for.

2 (42m 9s):
Don't you think anything could be from here to there? You know from like that pole to that pole. And what we are so maybe this is a good time to pull out the portfolio. You want to grab it. I'm actually that means to study of the birds, but it's an isolated study. So it doesn't people aren't necessarily associating it with the farm and something to eat time. It takes us all outside the barn so desperate to get on her photos and shows them her shots name-dropping the names of some big chicken people people whose bird. She's photograph. Including Bob wolf editor of the poultry press dig notices that a bird in one photo has crooked toes pictures are nice and sharp.

2 (43m 5s):
I mean nothing wrong to pictures if there's anything to find thought was a person's, you know, they aren't posing the way they should some of them. That is my city people usually go nuts and they see timers pictures a lot of chicken burritos don't like them and to understand why to fully comprehend this little culture Clash here in America. We have to leave the Barnyard for a minute and flash back to something that happened back at tamra's apartment in the city. Show me this old red book from the turn of the century this book with the Seal of the American poultry Association and gold on the front and then right there in Gold letters standard of perfection.

2 (43m 51s):
The standard of perfection is really the Bible of poultry standards, you know, what birds are time of foot past the Engravings no striations of chickens of all types and breeds. These were show chickens standing the way that chicken stand. Competitions then Tamara pulled out one of her own photos to compare to show me how her poses do not meet the standard in the book The Tail needs to be higher her feet are not erect, you know standing chest isn't out head needs to be up more and it shows I mean, you can see the shape of the chicken much better in the standard of perfect Perfection pose.

2 (44m 31s):
Seems to me it would soon change though is that the standard of perfection doesn't include a personality? All right. Because it's not about personality. It's about breeding. It was it so is that is that opposed? The owners would want to own a photo of their very particular about the they want to see their bird and the standard of perfection pose definitely because that's what they've been taught from 4-H when they were kids to do that's for them for herself for a city customers should use the others. Okay back to the barnyard.

2 (45m 14s):
Hammer in the Davidson's decided to set up the photo session in a room that's usually used to store feed for the cows. It takes about 45 minutes to set this up that 45 minutes includes dismantling and moving a wall of hay that is probably 10 feet high and 15 feet long. This takes five people then and comes with power and the fancy lights and the caught backdrop that gets hungry must do a poll. The backdrop is ironed. with an iron and ironing board brought from the city just for that purpose eleven and a half 11 and then Ate half your your test is going to be at love and a half 11 and eight and a half of sugar film at 11:00. It was cold. Well below freezing so cold at the Polaroid film The Tamara uses for lighting test would not fully develop be ready for the bird.

2 (46m 0s):
Commune with the bird just want to make you pretty look how sweet actually you know what I'm going to photograph you. My name is Tamara of your photographer for today. My first bird is white Cornish a schobert Who belongs to George it show bird is used to being picked up and handled by preparing chickens for shows involves handling them alive. So they'll be calm with the judges. He does not just head up a little bit. He's perfect. He's got his chest out case in it. Now. He's got his face in. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. What we want yeah. Yeah, great George. He's got a feather on his on his back Hammer has the corner stand up in a stack of little red antique books kind of unsteady things go well for a while.

2 (46m 40s):
She gets a half dozen good shots of the bird espresso shots more personality than standard of perfection. George tells me the bird's chest isn't high enough its body is not turned correctly to the camera and then the bird stops cooperating. He gets tired. Paul is a suggestion bringing a poet. You know what you know, that works. X maybe we should explain what that is. What does it mean to bring it a poet? No, thanks, maybe a female program up. Alright grabs a hen and waves at the flaccid cock the cock does not rise. I can say that on the radio right Philemon better to get the one from the other pain that he's not used to Fresh blood.

2 (47m 26s):
Bring him around a little bit. So his for real the chicken the the rooster will show off more for a hand that it doesn't know. Yes. You put a new hand in with them or him and with a group of new hand tool really show off. They try this in that nothing with much success finally with one shot left paw suggest putting a hand into the picture with rooster girls are like she looks like that but with her hair with her head cocked the male bird was posing and she was posing also.

2 (48m 14s):
Had a personality of just being like the sweet doting mother, you know, but not standard of perfection, but not standard of perfection. So we're done with this background and not standard of perfection. Even these perfectly bread Cornish has could not achieve standard of perfection today. And even in this goofy unburden like situation an hour of watching them makes clear just how hard it is to ever get birds hit the standard which is to say Not only do we completely dominate every aspect of their lives of chickens there burst their feed their eggs or solder not only have we bred them to human specifications to meet human needs.

2 (48m 55s):
But we've created a standard of what it means to be a chicken that most chickens can never be that's what the standard means we judge them as chickens and we find the mocking if they had the brains to understand this they would be right feel indignant. But of course this is a city person's perspective. And that means it is completely wrong headed from the point of view of anybody who actually raises Birds standing in the cold feed room. I had a long long talk with George about this. George is 80 years old. I'm raising birds since the I guess the Calvin Coolidge Administration. And this is the whole fun of raising birds is raising them to the standard.

2 (49m 37s):
Well, like for instance if your birds Black bone. Okay, you bought and by a bird is near the like them as you can was better bone, but when you made them together You might get long-legged birds or two shorter. I mean you don't get what you want just by making it takes four or five years to gradually get it up and by that time they're in Britain bed and you need new ones. Joyce tells me that when he's breeding a new batch of birds. No had 65 of them and only one or two will be anywhere near the standard of perfection.

2 (50m 17s):
That's how hard it is. Do you get frustrated with the standard of perfection? Sometimes know we get frustrated with the judges? Because every judge has his own idea what the standard should be. But that's the whole point of standard is that that is that is but one judge of wanted this way and another another today. If you'd read your birds to the standard Perfection weight and everything and took them to the show. You probably wouldn't get anywhere. You got to breed to the fads. That's right fads, like punishes these days. I'm supposed to have shorter legs and the real standard of perfection vertical tail feathers out all sorts of breeds.

2 (51m 1s):
That really should have them in the country among the chicken breeders. I think about a lot of things we never get to in the city and are there when you're racing these birds like a with any of these birds, I mean, do you have a close relationship with the bird the way it was somebody would ask for the Pat? I don't have time. Yeah, I've been just I got too many things to do. See four years ago almost died of cancer and good Lord told me how to cure myself and so I've been working with that a lot the last three years. I've helped people. Put it in papers.

2 (51m 40s):
Now. It's getting all over United States. What did you do? Let's use the root of a dandelion simple as can be but they something in that that builds up your blood your immune system witnessing you saying that you were diagnosed with cancer and this is the only treatment you had and accurate you. Yeah, and I've given it to other people one node medical world is told him that there's nothing more they can do is they've got well too but not all them if they're too far. On will help you and you make it into tea or something like that. Why don't we just put it in a little water? No milk. Kool-Aid. You can put it on a sandwich anything.

2 (52m 21s):
That isn't hot. It gives me a pamphlet that he's written up. No doctors actually checked him out to prove. The cancer is gone from his body. He's actually got no hard scientific proof that this really works but he says God told him that this is the way you should be spending his time and it is cut into his bird breeding a bit. George leaves off another business cameras finished hanging and lighting the next backdrop and the rest of us begin with the second bird a bird called a Brahma with elaborately pattern brown and white feathers. Yeah. She is big. It's a chicken like the size of a dog. Not bad big small dog.

2 (53m 5s):
I second bird demonstrates the great distance between bird Instinct and intelligence and the demands of modern fashion photography, which is to say of civilization called upon to do human tasks. Even rather passive ones a bird remains a bird. Paul carries the huge hand onto the fragile little set Tamara spelled UT What gene there buddy? Who is slapped me? I'm scared of this when she says quietly she adjusts her camera, but you can is so big nine pounds size of a small consumer turkey and she has to pull the camera back the Davidson's looking at her skeptically Paul is pointed way if she's ever shot a bird this big we gotta figure out where the thank you jump right in your face.

2 (53m 58s):
You know why you're here. Let's talk. I need you to be beautiful. Here's your moment. Okay. Sure. There are more where you came from buddy. You better act up here. It's combination of coddling and threats might motivate an aspiring supermodel or any group poppy. But this after all is it chicken or tries to word up with handful of corn corn or she's trying to get it but she's has to stand up high for it. Somewhere during this ordeal a funny thing happens all the Davidson's you all started off skeptical. They are completely engaged Dixie just suppose that is pure art concept oppose that could not be further from standard of perfection are aware is the bird with corn Paul Smith's feathers and when the bird Quivers or moves away three people jump in to fix it back up.

2 (54m 49s):
There's some feathers on the breast a little bit a little bit fluffy, you know, it's like it's not real clean down there. Okay. She's a little farther. You guys are great team. I'm going to hire you to come with me. Oops, I got a hand in there. That's my move and move and move the hand. Okay, great. It wasn't until this point that I realized that I came into this sort of expecting the bird to be more one more human partly, I think because I never really thought about this one way or the other but partly because Tamara's photos make chicken seemed so so thoughtful.

2 (55m 29s):
Over here at the camera. Look at the camera. We had a frame those photos are by. Hello. I have a One-Shot opportunity here. It's going to be when I Let Go. Geez, I didn't let go. I just started let up and he yanked it out of my hand. That is you can try to give chickens respect. You can try to treat them with dignity and photograph in the way you'd photograph anything or anyone that serious, but the chickens will not care.

4 (56m 2s):
You can make them look dignified but it is a brainless bird-like dignity and it is ephemeral.

2 (56m 9s):
Do you feel like your relationship with chicken? Has changed because of this. now not at all. How could that not be so. I ordered the chicken, you know when I'm at the show that eat it right in front of the chickens and then chicken while you're standing there with a checkup. Is it wrong? I'm hungry. What a Wonder they want sit still Yeah.

2 (56m 59s):
We pack up our gear and move the massive wall of hey back into place as we do this chickens, hop by brahmas americanos mixed breeds. They seem utterly uninterested in us the code each other. There's feed to eat Hayden esalen. They have better things to do with their time and you know, there's nothing that makes you realize just how inhuman chickens are. It spending a day trying to make them seem human.

3 (57m 38s):
16 years old one day. I was walking down the street. I want something was cooking. But what we got? For one by three four two racquets that smells bad. Here's money for your

4 (58m 16s):
stories in today's program were produced by Alex blumberg Susan Burton, blue Chevy knee-jerk Snyder least Spiegel and Nancy Updike music up for mr. John Connors. Thanks also to Larry Josephson and Jay had weighed additional production on today's rerun from Jessica Lawson hop Stone Nelson and Matt Tierney, Tamara Stables photographs of chickens are not compiled in a book called The Magnificent chicken Susan Bertucci's Opera about Chicken Little was available on CD and for download more information at www.coachingbadminton.com org, that is Pacino's. But of course pul cin a jacket story about her first aired back in 1997 George Cairns the The from the Davidson's dairy farm died in 2011 our website This American Life dot-org this American life is over to public radio stations by PRX the public radio exchange support for This American Life comes from a Lagunitas Brewing Company feeling stories and songs with Lagunitas IPA.

4 (59m 11s):
And of course committed give me the pub in public radio. Find out more. I won't you at Lagunitas.com. Thanks as always your programs co-founder. Mr. Twain a Latoya who decided he did not want to come on to our program. After I ask just one

1 (59m 25s):
question just radio not TV AmeriGas back next

4 (59m 30s):
week with more stories of This American Life. next week on the podcast of This American Life country of Greece has this problem their cemeteries do crowded what that means is that three or four years after your grandma dies. You have to dig her up get her bones make room for somebody else. How do you feel?

4 (1h 0m 10s):
Kind of mom. I don't think your family's bones next week on the podcast or in your local public radio station.