1 (1s):
Support for This American Life comes from the new season of business schooled a podcast by synchrony new hosts area. Darby is hitting the road digging into eight businesses to find out why more Founders are succeeding than have in the past 30 years. Listen And subscribe to business school the season to wherever you get your podcasts and from Peloton this gift giving season consider peloton's live and On Demand classes offering high intensity cardio from Home for peloton's best offer of the Year visit one pellet on.com and get the works package which includes free shoes weights and headphones when you purchase a Peloton bike.

1 (42s):
That's one pellet on.com. WBZ Chicago is This American Life? I'm Ira Glass. They've been seven peaches in the door Peaches and Herb over the years, but it was peaches number three real name is Linda green and the biggest hit ever singing the duet with herb. Live in a country where three million people of purchase copies of this song. I beaches number three tells this story. She was on tour and she visited this Elementary School back in the day and she has these little kids first and second and third graders what their favorite song was and they all shouted reunite it and what they said was that song was played with my Mommy and Daddy got back together.

1 (1m 34s):
Egrets and you know that speaks to there are not many songs for people who split up and get back together. Again. The reunited couple is a completely underserved market, right? There's a lot of more comfortable the second time around there's Break Up to Make Up and there's reunited that's pretty much it. Listen. Here's the course.

3 (2m 5s):
Who is singing the song

1 (2m 6s):
for the reunited people who is writing their stories? Well today on our radio show. We try to redress this Grievous Grievous oversight and tell three stories of reunions in each case very unlikely reunions that we got into the very unusual means a Kwanzaa man reunited with a woman act two is a man reunited with an animal at three am am reunited with Asian Sarah vowell tells that last story and let's just get right to it. Huh? Like one now your parents Parent Trap. This is a story of two marriages one unhappy the other happy ones an arranged marriage the others by their own choice one's a big formal wedding the others in City Hall ones in Iran the others in America.

1 (2m 50s):
The only thing they have in common is the bride and groom who also are the parents of nazanin rafsanjani who tells our story From the day my parents met to the day. They were married it took three weeks which wasn't so out of the ordinary in Iran in 1973 back. Then people didn't get to date. It just wasn't done. They had to leave it to their families to choose a spouse for them. They got married and hope for the best. Now that I know how my parents marriage began and ended I can hear hints of how the next 30 Years would go for them in the different ways. They describe their feelings at the very beginning. This is my mom Mina.

3 (3m 27s):
I thought he asked me and he serious and I thought I'd fall in love with him. And and I thought well I have to get married and he's he was right there. So wait, he he was right there or you or you thought you or you were in love with him. He was right there and I like them a lot and I thought then I thought I liked him a lot. I loved him. I loved him. I guess then yeah, I think for something that you forgot.

3 (4m 21s):
Were you in love with Nina? Yeah, how did you know? How did you tell me how you felt? Well love is love. I don't know how to explain about love when you love somebody. So you want to do everything for Forex.

1 (4m 40s):
This is my dad Abbas. It was always less complicated for Dad from the beginning he loved my mom and from the beginning my mom didn't know what it meant to love him. My mom borrowed her wedding dress from a cousin. There were married in a large Hall in downtown Tehran with lots of food and dancing. It was all new and fun for my mom until that night. There was this business of proving my mother's virginity which met my grandmother my dad's mom sat outside their room and waited for a piece of white cloth. That would prove. My mom was pure my grandmother carried it downstairs and displayed it for my dad's entire family who were there waiting for my mom a 19 year old girl who had never held hands with a boy before this was traumatic.

1 (5m 24s):
She didn't want to talk about it on tape. This was the beginning of her marriage and her sex life. My mom has a saying I've heard it over and over growing up an Iranian marriage is like going to the grocery store and buying a watermelon. You don't know what you've got until it's too late. By the time my mom realized she wasn't happy with her watermelon. My parents were already parents. The main issue was my father's temper. He could erupt at any time my mother tiptoed around it. She started to shut down. She expected my dad to throw a fit about everything.

1 (6m 7s):
She has lots of stories like the time she went to get her driver's license in Tehran at that time. Everybody failed the driver's test. So to practice people took it several times one day my Dad decided my mom should get some practice. So he drove her to terrans DMV and sent her inside expecting to wait 10 minutes, but miraculously she passed and then was shuffled into another line to take the driving test, which she also passed in the end, which should have been a 10-minute failure ended up taking two hours. Finally. My mom emerged ecstatic with her brand-new license.

3 (6m 40s):
So I just walked all that and I showed him by, you know, I passed I passed and he started to yell at me I told You 10 minutes. Why are you so late? You're so stupid. I had a meeting I said it was so if you had all those things, why did you want me to go and take the test? And then after that it's like I always remember he would he would calm down and then he would just forget about that. It ever happened. Just nothing happened every time that I wanted to bring it up. Tell him, you know you Embarrass me.

3 (7m 21s):
And you embarrassed yourself. Did you realize you know, there was 10 people or we're looking at your kids were looking at it. You're making too big of a deal. Nothing happened. Everybody gets angry. It was kind of like living with an alcoholic. This is my sister neela far because you never knew like one one second we go out for a picnic and everybody sunny and everything would be great and like literally the camera wouldn't work and he'd like gout and the rest of the day would be like shot to hell.

1 (7m 60s):
When people ask me about my parents, I'd say my mom doesn't love my dad. My dad loves my mom and they're not very happy and the only one who probably didn't see it. That way was my dad. Nobody ever complained to him about his temper. And even now he has a hard time remembering the moments that upset the rest of us.

3 (8m 19s):
I taught his okay. Yeah, I thought if asking somebody are you your life is okay. Your marriage is okay. Yeah, I should say it was okay because as if I don't know maybe as a Iranian man, I didn't say anything wrong. My dad wasn't just being

1 (8m 42s):
clueless by Iranian standards. There was nothing wrong with this marriage. Most of my mother's friends put up with a lot worse. My mom is the first one to say that if they'd stayed in Iran and an entire society that thought about marriage the way her Iranian friends did my mother wouldn't have hit a Breaking Point? It happened when she was 40 years old and because of complications from a medical procedure long ago and here on she'd had to get an emergency hysterectomy. My

3 (9m 9s):
sex desire just gone down to the drain. So and I talked to him I said just I really can compromise with you. You're a healthy guy. You have highly sex drive and I work with it, but you need to work with me, too.

1 (9m 30s):
Work with me meant she'd still have sex with him but a lot less than he wanted. He said no

3 (9m 35s):
and he said you know what? I miss the Liang and this is my desire. If you wanted me not to get angry and be happy, you know be good husband take it or leave it. And that night I thought okay. I'm all yours until until my kids get out of the house then I did my plan.

1 (10m 18s):
When they had this conversation, I was in eighth grade and we'd been in the US for almost nine years. I never knew this was a turning point, but my mother tells me it was the moment. She started plotting her divorce. This is a huge step for her. My family has lived in Tehran since the 1880s. And in that time no one not one couple has divorced in 125 years. Everyone on both sides of my parents families have stayed married, and that's not because there were so many happy marriages. My mom plotted the divorce for six years. She waited until I left home and went to college before she told my dad she wanted out he was shocked. He had no idea this was coming and then as if they wanted to make things as uncomfortable as possible, they continued to live together for six more months.

1 (11m 4s):
My mom had no other place to go. She filed the official divorce papers without telling my father while they were living in the same house. It was a pretty Grim time.

3 (11m 14s):
I couldn't sleep I couldn't eat and from very small period of time I start to drinking and I thought okay, this is not good and then I went to see the doctor and he put in my myself in medication like a Prozac or something and that one help me a little bit. But they still I was very very I thought this my life is done.

1 (11m 54s):
I was constantly worried about my father. I had no idea how he'd managed living by himself. I was still in college working as a secretary. When I got a phone call one day it was my dad sobbing I'd seen him cry once before when his father died and that time he cried quietly and I could tell he didn't want me to be any part of it on the phone that day at work. I had no idea what to do. I was in a crowded office trying to sound like I was having a casual conversation people kept walking by and I was trying to make my voice sound calm other calls kept coming in, but I couldn't put my dad on hold when he kept repeating. I can't do this over and over again.

1 (12m 35s):
I felt the same way talking to him. I can't do this. But for the first time in my life, I started spending time with him anyway, because I was scared for him. He'd come and visit me at school. I always made sure it was for breakfast. I remember thinking that nobody gets to hysterical over breakfast.

3 (12m 57s):
Do you remember talking to me about Mina and the stuff during that time or do you know for the first year? I remember I talked to you about me now and then after one year, I tried to not talk about anything. at all Because I beg her ask her okay back to together, but when she said no I said, okay. This is never happened. It's going to be never happened. Why should I bother her and so somehow I want to a little bit forget about me now.

1 (13m 47s):
When I was worried about my dad, I was excited for my mother for 27 years. She thought my dad was the one thing holding her

3 (13m 54s):
back and my sister and I thought what she thought we

1 (13m 57s):
had this glorious liberated woman vision for her. I pictured her coming home relaxing with a glass of wine. I pictured her dating throwing her head back in laughter at sophisticated jokes told by handsome men her age. I thought she'd divorce and turned into a completely different person a much happier person for a very short time.

3 (14m 17s):
Right. There was a lot of relief look like somebody took a big heavy weight off my shoulders. So I don't have to call person every two hours and tell him what where am I? I don't have to cook all the time. I have don't have to clean all the time. So it was me and me and me so went to you know, coffee shop and sit there and read the newspaper and it was such. Such a good feeling I never had it because I went from my parents house to my husband's house.

1 (15m 1s):
She read the newspaper at a coffee shop exactly three times. She never dated not once and things started getting harder. My mom called me all the time and tears. She talked about how much she hated my dad and she tell me how lonely she was. She had all of this energy and Need to direct it to now that my dad was gone. My mom had always seemed so independent, but that was when she was surrounded by people who depended on her.

3 (15m 26s):
I was so isolated. My family weren't around my kids were so busy and my friends were very kind very nice. But after in two years divorce, I never ever had experience that they invited me with the bunch of friends. They invited me like a I'm a like drug dealer and nobody have to see me and they feed me not one night and kick me out of the door.

1 (15m 54s):
Meanwhile, my dad was reluctantly turning into an American Bachelor he joined a gym. He had no food in his refrigerator. He was always at work at his dry cleaning business. And if he did have any free time he spent at reading that most American of genres.

3 (16m 9s):
I actually I read a lot of book about relationship between man and woman and one is give me good information man's from Mars and women from Venus. I want to give myself more knowledge what I did wrong if I want to go to have a relationship with other lady. I don't have to do something like that.

1 (16m 40s):
I can't believe I'm saying this but Men Are from Mars Women Are from Venus changed. My father's life. It's hard to imagine my dad sitting in his little apartment struggling with chapter titles, like women are like waves and healing the resentment flu, but I can see why this book helped him. There's a thing in the beginning about how many marriages this book has saved and how everyone at any age is capable of change and that's exactly what my dad needed someone to give him a chance. The book offered simple advice like as a man learns to listen and interpret a woman's feelings communication becomes easier if he becomes very frustrated while listening he should not try to continue instead.

1 (17m 21s):
The respectful thing to say is I really want to hear what you are saying, but right now it is very difficult for me to listen. In this passage the word listen appears eight times for my dad who'd never been exposed to the idea that wives needed to be listened to this was revolutionary, you know, I thought I'm

3 (17m 42s):
right. That I'm if because I'm right now everybody is not yeah because of that and some chapter of this book is give me the okay. No, you wasn't right. You have to relax and then listen

1 (18m 4s):
my dad started dating, but the book didn't teach him not to talk about his ex-wife on his dates. So nothing was working out but he was determined not to be alone. So he had relatives in Iran introduce him to Woman and he got engaged by this time about two and a half years after their divorce. I was more concerned about my mother than my father. It was my father who of the two of them was seeming more liberated. My mother just seems stuck every time I went to her house. There were three maps of San Jose covering her kitchen table. She'd get home from work and just sit and stare at them tracing out new and better routes. She could take to her office Oliver will power had been used up. Just getting herself free.

1 (18m 45s):
I remember being so So disappointed in my mom she'd come this far and then sort of just stopped. There was nothing left in her to find someone new

3 (18m 53s):
in one point. I was in an airplane one day and I saw a couple of old couple and I thought oh my God, I wish I was them. I wish I had my like 30 years husband beside me and I was sitting behind them and she started to explain to guy that this is her. Friends and this is that and this is I thought oh, they're dating not husband and wife. I don't want to live in age 50. I don't want to explain to somebody, you know my every single detail of my life. I want somebody to know me.

3 (19m 34s):
And yes, he gets angry. Yes, he is, you know short temper. Yes. He's that but I got old with them.

1 (19m 52s):
Not long after that came the day. My mom did the second most surprising thing. She would ever do in her life. It was two days after her 49th birthday. She called my sister to get together and celebrate but my sister was busy. She said

3 (20m 7s):
no, we we celebrate your birthday year. I mean week after we are going somewhere and why don't you get a boyfriend another that they usually are. Do you have to get a boyfriend and your problem is going to be self, you know, we have a life. And that day I thought this is not working. I need to fix this. This is not working easy. I have to leave this kids alone. This is I have to get somewhere that I don't need her that much. I thought let me try that old man again.

3 (20m 49s):
One day I remember Sunday afternoon telephone is ringing and I pick up the phone after I think one year. Is meaneth I called him and he got so surprised and said what's going on. Are you? Okay? I said yeah. I'm okay. I was wondering when is your wedding day? He said well two months from now and you know, she's I'm flying two weeks from now. I well congratulations. I told you I am going to get married with this lady. Even I told you everything do you want to come back still?

3 (21m 29s):
I'm coming. I want to come back to you. You know I said we were getting married for God's sake he said well, yeah, but you're actually you are my wife suddenly. She started crying very bad. I was worried about her. I was very very upsetting. I didn't know what should I do now?

1 (21m 53s):
My dad was two weeks away from going to collect his new bride. He felt awful about standing her up, but he'd never stop loving my mom even though he'd spent the last two years trying to forget about her and so he didn't really have a choice. My dad promised my mom that he changed but she didn't want to move too fast. So my parents for the first time in their lives ever started dating will sort of on their first date. They didn't leave the house.

3 (22m 19s):
He came to my house and you know, we talked and the fact that I cried all throughout. Why are you crying you just as it because having that to happen is it because you haven't talked about this for a while or well if I think when I look back whole whole thing was a sad event and you know, I just told them you know, what what have you done at regarding that?

3 (23m 1s):
It he said well, I did it tons of mistake. But you you were with me with all those mistakes because you should have you know, the firmer you should have let me know that how much you hate me. You never told me at that you hate me. You never told me that you were that much upset. You always said yes, yes. Yes. Yes. You know. And he listened. you know, I told him everything and he never got upset or never got offended or never got red and blue or you know, so I told him everything that I was upset about and I never had you know, I got to tell him and he listened and he said you're absolutely

1 (24m 4s):
right.

3 (24m 5s):
I lost you you were you know most was you were the most precious thing that I ever got and So I want to fix that if you let

1 (24m 15s):
me. It was kind of relief. Yeah,

3 (24m 29s):
we had a lot of information. We have to release for 25 years marriage what part we did wrong

1 (24m 37s):
and what it was,

3 (24m 39s):
okay. After our conversation and have the he wanted leaving hug me and he

1 (24m 46s):
said, you know

3 (24m 49s):
just try let's try one more time. And let's see how he's going to go and he hugged me and I

1 (24m 54s):
thought

3 (24m 55s):
oh my God feels good.

1 (24m 60s):
I

3 (25m 0s):
thought I fall into a shoulder that I can

1 (25m 3s):
rely. The second car trip took 6 months instead of three weeks. They got married at City Hall everyone. They knew was overjoyed except for my sister and me. We boycotted the wedding it seem ridiculous to us after 3 years of worrying about them and holding their hands. They were heading straight back into the misery. They'd worked so hard to leave behind but it turns out we were wrong. They traded their unhappy Iranian marriage for happy American one. When you think about American relationships you think about the divorces the self-help books the constant talking about feelings and even though all of that seems undignified and laughable.

1 (25m 53s):
It's all working for my parents. Now I can see my dad struggling to keep his temper in check. He thinks about hurting my mom now about embarrassing her in a way. He never did before I see them laugh with each other and talk to each other. Is to be so nervous around them because the atmosphere was so tense. Now, they actually seem to like each other and for a long time. I attributed everything to my father's change. He learned to control his temper and now they're happy, but that's not the way they see

3 (26m 20s):
it the wars I think is changed me no more than me also a lot. Basically I had a lot of problem in my life that he wasn't the cause of it. In two years I sat down and I had always thought he's not here. I still have those problem. You know, he I don't socialize because not because of it's not him. It's

1 (26m 48s):
me living on around a lot my mother to see my father the way he'd always seen her as a choice. She wanted to make And now she says she loves him for the first time in her

3 (26m 59s):
life.

1 (27m 7s):
Everybody agrees that if they'd stayed in Iran, none of this would have happened. Not the Heartbreak not the Newfound compatibility. This is my sister. Neela far

3 (27m 17s):
the West did break them up and then they had like the freedom to get back together again, you know, I was felt like we had this like such a weirdly and kind of such an American Experience like all of a sudden in the middle, and I don't know. even that means except that except that my parents like got divorced and then they talked about their feelings and they both went to therapy and that my dad read Men Are from Mars Women Are from Venus and we talked to my dad about like relationships and they started he started dating and I was just like it's like I feel like we had this family, you know, like the crazy family on the Block who doesn't put up Christmas lights like the non-american crazy family with the paddle on all of our lives and then all of a sudden like my parents turned All-American and had this like American experience and now we're like this little happy family and it kind of grosses me out to because I'm like, this is not where we fit.

3 (28m 12s):
You know, this is not our family. You know what I mean? I think it's great. I love it. It feels really normal and good now.

1 (28m 23s):
I'm still struggling with normal and good when you thought about your life as some slightly depressing slightly boring novel lying on the bargain bookshelf. It's weird to have it end up on the bestseller rack in the self-help section. That's an eruption Johnny in the year since we first broadcast that story she was on the podcast startup many times and she now Heads new show development for the podcast company game. media appearances still together coming up our Union attempts to defy the most powerful force on Earth that's in a minute Chicago public radio when our program continues Support for This American Life comes from business schooled a podcast by synchrony for its second season business school Diz finding out why startups in America are succeeding at the highest rates in 30 years.

1 (29m 19s):
They're not just surviving. They're thriving leaping past those Rocky early stages and into an entirely new phase of growth new host and start up with Soraya Darby travels all over the country meeting with eight businesses to uncover. What's helping them Go the Distance new season new host new things to learn. On season 2 of business schooled a podcast by synchrony. Listen And subscribe to business school season to wherever you get your podcasts and from Peloton this holiday season, give your loved ones the gift of Peloton with a wide variety of entertaining live and On Demand classes motivation from World Class instructors and efficient high intensity cardio all from home plus with one subscription.

1 (30m 3s):
Your whole household can use this time-saving gift for Peloton. Has best offer of the Year visit one pellet on.com and get the works package which includes free shoes weights and headphones when you purchase a Peloton bike. That's one pellet on.com. This American Life Myra glass each week in a program we choose some theme bring you a variety of different kinds of stories on that theme today's program reunited and it feels so good stories of unlikely reunions achieve through the most difficult paths possible and we arrived at to our program at to and if by chance we meet again, there's an old story about a reunions that goes like this it was Orpheus and there was you ready to see they're young they were in love and just after they married she died an untimely death.

1 (30m 49s):
Death and his love was so great that he went to the gates of the underworld. Try things. Nobody had ever done to try to bring her back to

3 (30m 57s):
life and

1 (30m 58s):
for a little while just a little while. It seemed like he had succeeded the sensor is just like that except it's about a bowl here just like a big bundle of joy, you know, just loving whatever if you've ever had a favorite dog that you can think of as a child or some other animal and he lick your face, you know, and yes, he was cut. Hello is not usually the word you used to describe a full-grown Brahmin ball, the white Regal ancient-looking with huge horns and a black and hump the size of a bowling ball arises between shoulders that muscle right? There is the one that throws all the bull riders off when I flex that muscle the Rope just pops right out of their hand and they're long gone.

1 (31m 43s):
Yes, you're a good boy. Yeah, those usually don't even want you near them. Well, buddy. Rob Fischer been around bulls and steer all his life. He'd work the rodeo as a young man. He trained animals as an adult when he found chance at an auction. He'd never seen a bull. So tame his kids would climb all over chance chance would know softer house wife. Sandra leaned his head. It really is like having a pet dog or a pet

3 (32m 10s):
cat except the

1 (32m 11s):
size, but it's they seem so much less demonstrative, you know wrong, that's wrong. I don't know if Ralph and Sandra would agree with this. But I think everything that went bad all the trouble that eventually unfolded it all came because they were blinded by their feelings.

3 (32m 37s):
What's the world's largest herd of

1 (32m 38s):
Saddlebrook tame, Texas Longhorns and brahmins Ralph Fisher's photo animals are sure to be a crowd pleaser at your corporate Gathering convention sales meeting or even at your own private party Rapids and you have a family business taking pictures of people standing next to or on top of animals at barbecues parties, the occasional presidential inaugural ball and chance was the star. This is their promotional video. You did dozens of shots of people sitting on chance one after another with 1 million dollars. Liability insurance beautiful tame animals and state-of-the-art photo equipment we furnish your clients and guests with a lasting memory of your Texas event because of the business chances possibly the most photographed bull who's ever lived chance met Ashley Judd and Roger Clemens Mother Teresa and Sonny Bono.

1 (33m 24s):
Those are separate meetings Hitman Hearns Sugar Ray Leonard, Dan Rather chance did the Letterman show, you know, this animal certain parts of this animal looks like he's shoplifting Sporting Goods. Chances in a movie with Vince Vaughn that sure is a handsome bull. Yes, sir. That's about the handsome spool. I've seen and all my days of cattle ranching. In the movie Jeremy Davies plays a guy who doesn't talk to people but that's how to chance which I'll builds this climactic scene where for reasons that are not exactly clear Kate Capshaw castrates chance in the middle of the night and a driving rainstorm just to prove a

3 (34m 2s):
point.

1 (34m 18s):
Cassandra and Ralph had this really sweet situation that got to work side by side with all these animals which they go out chance was so tame. They was allowed out of the pasture and even had a favorite spot in the front yard under the trees Sandra would watch him from the kitchen window, which was a really nice feeling to be doing the dishes you look out and there's your team Pitbull like Ferdinand laying on the grass. Then a rainy day in September chance didn't come from the pastor to eat. Sandra went looking for him. Finally Ralph headed out to the pasture found him dead. There's 19, which is really old for a bowl. There's a really a sad day. I took the camera out and I was going to take some pictures and I said, well, you know, he deserves more than that.

1 (35m 4s):
So I skinned him ask in his whole body. It took me all day. It was raining so it A really sad time I'd skin a wild cry wall that we just like a baby just crying like a baby out there with my knife, you know skin and him I'm going well somebody has to do this and I'd have to toughen up and regroup and this lasted all day long. I guess I was a complete wreck. What by the time was all over with. Now says he had no choice he had to skin them in the first 24 hours because he wanted to get him Taxidermy turn them into a full-sized Brahmin statue ever and forever and people would still have their picture taken with him chance could stay in the family business.

1 (35m 48s):
So so emotional everything was really emotional and all the family had a good cry out to all my kids in the people who knew him so long they all just hated that okay rewind three months before all that happened Ralph heard about this way that he might be able to cheat death with chance and keep him around as more than Taxidermy. It was a real long shot. Someone called me and said we've read an article in the paper that I am is going to clone an animal. We meet clone. They said, you know clone make one from another one. That's it up. No can't be And a Miss Texas AM world-famous veterinary school and Animal Hospital.

1 (36m 35s):
It just happens to be an hour and a half drive from Ralph's house his chances regular hospital. And so we called up and said, you know, you're going to clone an animal right? He said yes, we take tissue and we went and we said well, why don't you use chance and will and so other folks would call them some friends would call and talk to him and and they finally just I think we bothered him so much they gave up and said, okay. Well, we do it in the end scientist decided to combine chance for a simple reason. He was old there's some things they thought they might find out by cloning an older animal and chance. Was there any way of getting a mold biopsied for disease a scientist could use the DNA from the mole to do they're conning.

1 (37m 22s):
In Texas tonight A man his wife and their Bull have been reunited. I guess he's been reincarnated can months and 18 days after chance died alongside paid off a column was born. The first cone bull is huge news. There is Ralph if you get out what to call chances cone second chance. And he was just the prettiest little white little white Brahman calf you ever saw and spindly and barely able to stand. I thought it was the same animal. I would say, you know, we got him back. That's the first headline. I think in the news clippings when they interviewed me.

1 (38m 3s):
We got him

3 (38m 4s):
back. The vets that I am at ask us our kidded with us about whether the calf was going to recognize his own stall in the barn. We got him home. But which sort of blew that

1 (38m 22s):
off. Well the first day we brought him home. We turn him loose over here in the yard and he goes over and lays down one over and laid down in the same spot. It's still kind of chokes me up. He laid down the same. But the chance late in you know, that's not reasonable

3 (38m 43s):
when I was spooky. That was

1 (38m 45s):
spooky everything you notice right away with Second Chance is that he has chances same mannerisms when he eats unusual mannerisms instead of putting his head into a feed bucket and holding it down there and chewing until there's no more food but chance and second chance razerheadz closed her eyes and chew. I've never seen another animal do that. Never seen another animal do that. There's something else about Second Chance something harder to quantify. I

3 (39m 14s):
just feel like he always recognized Ralph Fisher and Ralph would lay down on the ground and second chance would lick him and lick

1 (39m 22s):
his boots and second chance would lope across the pasture and come to us

3 (39m 28s):
and we watched other people vets would

1 (39m 30s):
crawl in there and he wouldn't wouldn't come across the pasture to

3 (39m 33s):
them. He just always seem to recognize

1 (39m 36s):
Ralph and what did you think did you think somehow his Emory got

3 (39m 39s):
transferred. Well, no, I still don't think that I think that he just has the same instincts the same. That he's going to make the same choices. Why would the eating thing be the same that's a clone is akin to a genetically identical twin. It's not the same animal. It's not

1 (40m 3s):
chance back to my quest to stand is one of the scientists who runs the reproductive Sciences Lab at Texas A&M, but I have a cone second chance. He says it because a coin is just a twin nothing more nothing less. It may not even look the same as the original just like twins constant necessarily act like The Originals either the dr. West duchenne understands how raw for Sandra might not see it that way.

3 (40m 23s):
well people get attached to their animals and they you know, and they want to sometimes see more than is there and they do see more than as maybe really there and that's not necessarily a bad thing. I mean, that's like that's love right there. Yeah, that's love that's not necessarily A Bad Thing and and it was interesting for me to listen to Ralph to always realize under the same tree and he eats his food just the same as the old chance did and I'm like, that's really cool Ralph, you know, and but I just how's his Glucose today are interested in that and

1 (41m 3s):
dr. West Houston reminded me several times. This is not the same animal. Don't expect a pet the same same attitude from a pit, and I didn't believe him because everything looked the same just when I see him, especially at a distance. He looks so much like chance and every day as he goes old gets older and older so much every year in second chances birthday Ralph and Sandra, we threw a party for him fire up some barbecue, which if you think about it would be so disturbing for the guest of honor. If only he knew anyway on his fourth birthday all the family and friends and neighbors came to the front yard pose for pictures of second chance.

1 (41m 47s):
We had his birthday cake, which is a Big feed tub with you no candles on top and we blew the candles out and and I said it's about dark. So I think I'll lead him back to the barn. I put one finger in his nose ring, which is a common thing. It gives you close contacting if they make any aggression, you can immediately feel it and you know respond, you know. Anyway, I was walking him. We just did a few steps out of the yard and I had the lead rope in the other hand. We just took a few steps and then boom, you know caught me with his horn and slammed me down and that's when he dislocated my shoulder.

1 (42m 29s):
Hit me in the back. So I was in Mobile on that side. He picked me up and slammed me down you see and then he proceeded to get on top of me with his, you know, his mostly his head his forehead and his horns. We found three deep deep hole six or eight inches in the yard the next day where he had missed me and he was he was really trying he was really attacking it was it was like, you know on purpose. Oh, no I said, oh no, Oh, no, this can't be this can't be happening. Because we had so much faith in him and you know it just you know, I did at that time.

1 (43m 11s):
All I was thinking about was you know, why are you doing this? Why and that was just so disappointed the whole time. I remember when I was kicking him in the face. I'll just going how can you be doing this to me? You know quit it. I think my feelings my he actually hurt my pride. Since the attack Ralph acknowledges Second Chance is not the same animal as chance a believes that he definitely believes it when you love you, see what you want to see everybody knows that. But even still holds out. Hope hope that even if Second Chance is not chance right now. He'll turn into chance. They'll still get the reunions.

1 (43m 52s):
Well, the hope is involving his age. Yeah, since I did not have chance when he was until he was seven years almost seven years old. I don't really know how Second Chance is supposed to act. Oh you don't have chance was just like this back in the day. Right? Right. So he might just have to go through the stage and settle down. I know. Settle down my Texas Longhorns settle down after so many things have been really wondering about your situation is I wonder if having second chance around all the time is ever painful for you because it reminds you that you don't have chance. It's like here you have this ghost of your favorite animal walking the property who isn't exactly chance and if it just kind of breaks your heart a little bit.

1 (44m 39s):
No sir. It's just the opposite you're just exactly as as wrong as you can be so far right now. I feel like we've gotten about 95% of him back. I mean the same qualities the same fun. That's satisfies me that's better than 0 when he was laying out in that pasture out there did he was a 0 I mean, we would never have any enjoyment out of Hill anymore and there's a tremendous difference between zero and 95% Yeah. People want to believe it is resurrection sometimes and and it is in fact not

3 (45m 16s):
Resurrection. It's just it's reproduction

1 (45m 19s):
is bad news doctor West Ocean is had to deliver to a lot of people over the years. It was his lab at Texas A&M the cone the first house pet the called a cat named CeCe. It was international news and for a while as I've got a lot of money from investors who wanted to start a business calling people's pets with have gotten away from now, but for a while the scientists were deluged with calls from pet owners. Those people who wanted what Ralph and sound you wanted they wanted their animals back,

3 (45m 44s):
you know somewhere like I have hair in the jewelry box that I've kept for 10 years it will that work? No,

1 (45m 54s):
you know I had several calls were the animals had

3 (45m 55s):
already been buried and they were so, you know, I didn't think about this till after I buried him. Do you think there'd be any possibility we could go out in the yard and and dig it up and and get some tissues, you know to clone this animal back and It's like well, no, I don't think so. It's going to be you know, pretty Rank and full of bacteria and we probably will not be able to get the tissue and they'd say well it's cold up here, you know, it was frozen when we did it. So I'm sure the carcass is still frozen and it hasn't deteriorated too much. You know, what do you

1 (46m 24s):
think when I visited browse Ranch to interview him and Sandra they've been about a year and a half since the birthday party was second chance of tact Ralph. There were a bunch of us on this trip including a film crew and one night while we were taping up by the house. We heard a scream and one of the crew came running up in the barn or Ralph and second chance wear. What what

3 (46m 49s):
the bull attacked them? Oh my God, the bull attacked. And what's the address here?

1 (46m 56s):
We threw out the do a car rushed him into town to the nearest hospital. He was banged up pretty badly. Finally Sandra came out from the emergency room to tell us that he be getting 80 stitches or second chance coredem.

3 (47m 8s):
The doctor is examining him right now. Yeah,

1 (47m 12s):
he gored him like in his in his garage.

3 (47m 15s):
It's his left scrotum is ripped and his testicles hanging out.

1 (47m 26s):
One of the producers of This American Life Jane Marie was in the barn and she saw the attack. She says Ralph is bringing second chance and feed trying to back him into a pain One Second Chances tossed Ralph

3 (47m 36s):
ice cream. I didn't want to look at it because I thought he was going to like kill him, you know, and I don't want what did you say? I just saw him like fly up in the air and

1 (47m 44s):
then the bullet was loud as he really loud because it was at the corner of the fence.

3 (47m 48s):
So I threw up in the air and he landed like on the corner of the fences and he's ramming him in the ground into the fence. So the fences are all shaking in the fall. Making all the noises and it seems like the Bulls going to break through the fences after he's done killing them. You know what I mean? It just is very very loud. Very very fast.

1 (48m 12s):
It's almost like Second Chance was trying to tell Ralph that he's not chance using the only language he has of course, he's not chance in movies and books. Would somebody tries to bring back a loved one from the dead whether it's a pet if it's a person it never works. That well, it's one of the all time ranking bad ideas right up there with deciding to give robots and computers human feelings. We're going back in time to change just one little thing in the past next day. We were finally allowed to see Ralph his hospital room. So rough how you feeling? I feel good. They had me up walking this morning first thing. I've walked the Block in the hospital about four times now in the last two without any help.

1 (48m 54s):
It was a scar on his nose his lip and Chin were busted his spine. We found out later had a hairline fracture. So you were saying when we talked before that you felt like with Second

3 (49m 2s):
Chance, what you've got is 95%

1 (49m 5s):
of what chance was and I wonder if after this incident you might downgrade him to just like 80% or 70% No because this is exactly the same kind of the same type incidents as when he butted me 18 months ago a year and a half

3 (49m 22s):
ago. Come on you think really 95 I said after that.

1 (49m 29s):
I'm just I'm just thinking that you know, we just have to have a lot of faith in. things to work out so I forgive him, you know. I just shouldn't have been that close. Yeah. But what second chance have to do to convince you he's never going to be like chance like how many times would have to attack you after he 7 then he has to attack me then the the the lines will be drawn in the sand like we were discussing. Yeah, you still have hope. Oh, yeah Shirley.

1 (50m 8s):
Yeah. I've been I've been having fun here and Sandra hand me that horse. Would you send your hands on this little toy horse? The one of their friends brought Ralph? How does he work? What? That's how I feel right now. You know, he don't want to walk out of here tomorrow the next day and I'll go right back out there and give them another bucket of feed. I mean, that's what you have to do.

1 (50m 48s):
Yeah, if it was easy, they'd be a bunch of kids out there taking care of probables. Well that happened back in 2005. Did you win this episode was first broadcast after night to be right the second chance got older. He did come Tamar and more trustworthy than Everest assholes chance was syndrome raffle was had to be careful with him and in March of 2008 8 years old Second Chance die. In an email to friends Sandra wrote think of this huge animal is put Ralph in the hospital twice will be so missed.

1 (51m 32s):
It never occurred to us that by having a cone. We lose them twice. Sandra said that before his death, Texas A&M collected some tissue which opened the door for a possibility of a third chance. The story by the way is one that we did for our TV show back when we had a series on Showtime. If you're curious to see chance a second chance and Ralph and Sandra you can find the series. It's showtime or Amazon Prime or iTunes. At three French Kiss enter program today with this story from Sarah vowell of a man who United with a country people lined the roads to see him wherever he traveled newspaper accounts called it a delirium of feeling here Sarah.

3 (52m 19s):
On August 16 18 24 and elderly French gentlemen sailed into New York Harbor and giddy Americans were there to welcome him a rather to welcome him back. It had been 30 years since the Revolutionary War hero the Marquis De Lafayette had last set foot in the United States and he was so beloved. So universally revered that the friends eat the Artur of his reception has yet to be matched. 80,000 people showed up to cheer for Lafayette 80,000 the entire population of New York at the time was a hundred and twenty thousand.

3 (53m 3s):
When Lafayette first got here in 1777. He was only 19 years old a wealthy orphaned Aristocrat. He Charmed his way into a commission in George Washington's continental army as an unpaid volunteer. He was a Relentless Soldier almost freakishly Brave disciplined and choosing Panache all at once. He wrote a white horse was wounded in the Battle of Brandywine. Wine led the liberation of Virginia and suffered through a winter at Valley Forge living among his fellow soldiers in a crummy Hut though he could have easily afford to wait for spring in a mansion the size of Newark his troops adored him George Washington considered him his adopted son Alexander Hamilton wrote him letters that read like mash notes.

3 (54m 1s):
Invited by his old friend President Monroe to beat the nation's guests on the eve of the 50th anniversary of American independence Lafayette strip here amounted to a euphoric 13-month Victory lap around the country in which he visited all of the then 24 States everywhere Lafayette went he was serenaded by music composed in his honor. Hey Lafayette lafayette's March the Lafayette Waltz the Lafayette run. And in decreasing geographical order the songs lafayette's welcome to North America lafayette's welcome to the United States. Lafayette's Welcome to New York and lafayette's welcome to Philadelphia.

3 (54m 47s):
Meanwhile, the souvenir trade cranked out an unprecedented pile of Lafayette themed knickknacks from ladies gloves to dishes how many times must you have reached for a cookie and seen his own eyes. Staring back at him from a commemorative plate. In Brooklyn Lafayette was invited to lay the Cornerstone of a new children's library at the ceremony. He picked up and kissed a neighborhood kid the five year old Walt Whitman in Philadelphia the French chef in charge of preparing the count. Mm 60 courses for lafayette's banquet dropped dead in his kitchen that very morning felled by overwork and the Steam Heat of simmering sauces.

3 (55m 33s):
has And speaking of Philadelphia. If you have visited what came to be called Independence Hall you have Lafayette to thank the building where the Declaration of Independence in the Constitution were signed was decrepit and abandoned. It was only when philadelphians needed a symbolically appropriate place for lafayette's reception. Did they remember the old Hall and sweep up? When Lafayette waded through the crowd of 20,000 locals there to greet him and crossed the to him hallowed threshold. He preached Within These sacred Walls by a council of wise and devoted Patriots was boldly declared the independence of these vast United States, which has begun for the Civilized world the era of a new end of the only true social order founded on the inalienable rights of man.

3 (56m 37s):
Notice The Melancholy in that word only when he hails American government as the only true social order founded on the inalienable rights of man after the French Revolution of 1789 Lafayette not only watched his hopes for american-style civil liberties in his homeland get chopped into thousands of guillotined pieces during the reign of terror. He subsequently spent five years in a Royal Austrian prison and lived through the restoration of the French King the dictatorship of Napoleon and the restoration of yet another French King. So Lafayette more than anyone was aware of the uniqueness and the importance of the American Republic.

3 (57m 28s):
at that point American democracy had descended from its early idealism into the kind of messy partisan backbiting were familiar with today lafayette's arrival in 1824 coincides with one of the most contentious presidential elections in American history with no clear Electoral College winner between John Quincy Adams and Andrew Jackson with Adams, assuming the presidency under suspicions some World the corrupt bargain. Meanwhile Congress had just fought its first epic battle over slavery the fight that led to the Missouri Compromise the fight that would soon enough lead to the Civil War but Lafayette belonging to neither North nor South to no political party or faction was a walking talking reminder of the sacrifices and bravery of the Revolutionary generation and what they wanted this country to be his return was not just a reunions with his beloved Americans.

3 (58m 31s):
It was a reunions for Americans with their own astonishing singular passed

1 (58m 46s):
on New

3 (58m 46s):
Year's Day 1825 Congress through him yet another of his nightly Banquets and Speaker of the House Henry Clay toasted Lafayette. As a great Apostle of Liberty in reply Lafayette toasted back with a prophecy to the Perpetual Union of the United States. It has always served us in times of storm one day it will save the world. And he was right every so often America has saved the world course we muck it up every now and then as well, but in 1917 after American expeditionary forces crossed the Atlantic to Aid France in World War 1 General Pershing marched his troops to lafayette's Paris grave where the old Soldier had been buried under dirt from Bunker Hill.

3 (59m 45s):
They placed an American flag into that American dirt Lafayette. One of them said we are here.

1 (1h 0m 2s):
Sarah bow the book about lafayette's experiences in America. It's called Lafayette in the somewhat United States. Welcome to Spirit today by Alex blumberg myself with Diane cock Jamboree Sarah Cain again, Lisa Pollock, our senior producer for today's show is Julie Snyder additional production on today's rerun from Jessica Lawson top Catherine. Mondo Stone Nelson Mattoon a special thanks today to Chandra Conway for bringing us the story of Second Chance. Also to Chris wheelchair and Jenny golden eye website This American Life dot-org This American Life has delivered a public radio stations by PRX the public radio exchange sport for This American Life comes from God who need this Brewing Company feeling stories and songs Lagunitas IPA.

1 (1h 0m 50s):
And of course committed even the pub in public radio, and I'm more won't you allow Bonitas? Cam thanks as always to our programs co-founder. Mr. Troy meltia who waved around a big knife and told me my very first day on the job. I'm a glass back next week for more stories of This American

3 (1h 1m 12s):
Life.

1 (1h 1m 28s):
This is Ira Glass and for many years around Thanksgiving This American Life brought your program about poultry be ready for the bird

3 (1h 1m 36s):
chickens Ducks turkeys. That's the day we had before the night three thousand turkeys died real and fictional

1 (1h 1m 47s):
this week the tradition continues. Why would you do

3 (1h 1m 51s):
that?