2 (1s):
Support for This American Life comes from State Farm The Helpful Folks at State Farm are there for you on those days when it feels like problems just pop out of nowhere for auto and home insurance State Farm agents are ready to help find one at statefarm.com. And from rocket mortgage by Quicken Loans making the home buying process work for you their team. Is there with award-winning client service and support get started at Rocket mortgage.com American Equal Housing lender licensed in all 50 states and MLS consumer access dot org number 3034. I hold in my hand a ghost story.

2 (44s):
It comes from a publication that is not really known for its tales of the supernatural. I'm talking about the American Journal of Ophthalmology a medical journal. This is from a 1921 Edition just case your subscription lapse during World War One. I'm just going to leave one of these articles. This is a letter that the doctor sent him is from one of his patients actually this letter she's identified as mrs. H. And in the letter she's describing a very strange series of events that happened to her and her family. Cutting when they moved into a rambling old house on November 15th 1921. This house was out of repair had no electricity was lit by gas lights. Very gloomy house Albert DNA is the person who Unearthed this article and he agreed to come into the studio and read from mrs.

2 (1m 29s):
H has account of what happened in them. Mr. H and I had not been in the house more than a couple of days when we felt very depressed. The house was overpoweringly quiet. The servants walked about on thickly carpeted floors. So quietly that I could not even hear them at their work. I love how had no how no story of this area can be complete without servant's patting a battery and they had many servants one morning. I heard Footsteps in the room over my head. I hurried up the stairs to my surprise. The room was empty. I It into the next room and then into all the rooms on that floor and then to the floor above to find that I was the only person in that part of the house sometimes after I've gone to bed the noises from the storeroom are tremendous as if Furniture was being piled against the door as if China was being moved about and occasionally a long and fearful PSI or whale.

2 (2m 29s):
Sometimes as I walk along the hall I feel as if someone was following me going to touch me. You cannot understand it if you've not experienced it but it's real. As I was dressing for breakfast one morning B is 4 years old came to my room and ask me by I'd called him. I told him I'd not called him that I'd not been in his room with big and startled eyes. He said who was it? Then that called me who made that pounding noise. I told him it was undoubtedly the wind rattling his window. No, he said it was not that it was somebody that called me who was it and so on he talked insisting that he'd been called and for me to explain who had been It gets worse the adults and the children are held down in their beds by unseen figures bed.

2 (3m 17s):
Shake the plants die. They and their children feel weak. They have no energy. They get severe headaches some nights after I've been in bed for a while. I felt as if the bed clothes were jerked off me and I've also felt as if I'd been struck on the shoulder one night. I woke up and saw sitting on the foot of my bed a man and a woman the woman was young dark and slight in A large picture hat. I was paralyzed and could not move. And so finally I'm her brother-in-law comes to them she writes with a thought about what might be happening. Her husband's brother comes to the magenta Airy and says that perhaps they're being poisoned.

2 (3m 57s):
He'd read a story about a family poisoned by gas who had similar curious delusions and he advised them to see a professor about this at once a quick investigation shows that the furnace is actually sending carbon monoxide fumes into the house instead of up the chimney. They

3 (4m 16s):
That

2 (4m 17s):
and the Ghostly haunting stop. They don't feel sick anymore either which makes a lot of sense as a burden a when he's not poking around old medical archives. He's an environmental health engineer in a toxicologist. He spends a lot of his time warning people about carbon monoxide seeping into homes. And he says fumes like this wouldn't just come from the furnace of an old house kind of gas that they used in gas lights in that era had as much carbon monoxide as a cars exhaust and he says carbon monoxide gas can account for everything. That this family experience no question about it carbon monoxide poisoning can cause all manner of hallucinations audio-visual feeling strange things on their skin when there was nothing there people often report that they hear noises in the ears bells ringing rushing sounds what's amazing about this story is is what a completely traditional ghost story it is if I like everything that happens to them.

2 (5m 13s):
I've heard in some ghost story at some Another and then it turns out to be carbon monoxide poisoning and I gotta say I can't tell if I feel sort of relieved that there's a totally rational explanation or kind of disappointed. I totally share that perspective. It's kind of disappointing to find that it's not some other worldly explanation. It is kind of like a killjoy story for Halloween not gonna go there. But it's Halloween and this little example shows you what kind of boring killjoy trouble you can get into when you start applying rationality and facts to a perfectly good scary story a story that never wanted to hurt anyone from WBEZ Chicago.

2 (6m 3s):
It's a special Halloween edition of our show which were calling scary music you please

3 (6m 11s):
and the call was coming from the

1 (6m 12s):
basement.

3 (6m 14s):
He's always are all absolutely true

2 (6m 17s):
and carbon monoxide. Let me just say any of your carbon-based gases figure and not at all in any of them our show today in for scary Acts, including the true scary stories that you and listeners like you called into our scary story hotline and Australian which David Sedaris walks among the dead

1 (6m 38s):
stay with us.

2 (6m 43s):
Ike one Hills Have Eyes one kind of scary story is when something that usually is not dangerous becomes transformed, you know, what something fluffy or funny becomes murderous like little dolls that come to life a ventriloquist dummies clowns a little Woodland creatures. Alex blumberg has one such absolutely true to how he was a producer on our show back when we first ran this episode today shows a rerun. Here's Alex Michelle and her husband lived in the woods at the end of a long half mile driveway have a little used dirt road. They loved it there surrounded by trees and mountains, but still only an hour and a half by train from New York City when we can morning as was their custom they went out for a short walk.

2 (7m 29s):
Is a beautiful winter day almost a foot of snow on the ground. They got to the road and turned around to head back up the drive.

3 (7m 36s):
My husband tends to walk faster than I do and he was wanting to sort of do a little jog and I said, okay then why don't you just you know kind of go ahead so he went on home and I was just started on the driveway and I looked down the straightaway and I saw this animal that was you know, pretty far down and then I saw I said, oh it looks like a raccoon. I would say it was at least a hundred and fifty to two hundred feet. It was pretty far away and I'm looking at it and I'm thinking well, you know, it's going to go up into the woods, but it started walking towards me and then I realized that hasn't seen me yet.

3 (8m 24s):
And you know, I sort of, you know, just wave my arm a little bit and then all of a sudden it sees me. And the second it was aware of me. It just it just bolted towards me. I mean like with what there wasn't a second of a hesitation. It was like, oh my God, you know, it's like, oh my God, it's coming right at me. I turned and I started to run as I was trying to outrun it and I can I kept turning to see if the animal was bearing down on me and it was getting closer and it was now within 5 or 10 feet, you know behind me and the whole time.

3 (9m 15s):
I mean from the moment the raccoon saw me. It's hist and snarled. I mean it was. The feeling was all I cared about was attacking me. So I don't even know what I was thinking but I ran off the drive thinking well, I'll get away from it. Well as I run off the drive, it jumps onto my thigh and I fall into the snow kind of down behind a rock and then the next thing I see is his mouth as around my right thigh.

2 (10m 2s):
The raccoon was about 30 pounds Michelle a slight woman was about 115. She was wearing a big parka and snow pants. So the raccoon wasn't able to get a good grip using all their body weight in both hands. She was able to pull it off her leg and pin it in the snow away from her body.

3 (10m 17s):
I'm pushing its face into the snow so that you know, it would keep putting its head up and snarling and then it would keep trying with its claws to scratch it me, but I kept leaning on it and then pushing it into the snow and I'm screaming at the top of my lungs, you know help, you know, somebody help me, you know, I'm being attacked, you know, I mean, I'm just and I'm thinking, you know, the closest neighbor it's a house that you know, they're sort of weekenders and often they're not there and it seemed like no one was coming out of that house and I'm a half a mile from my house, and I'm thinking Nobody is going to help me.

3 (11m 3s):
And so I'm you know, and I'm was after about 5 minutes. I stopped screaming and I just started thinking you know, what am I going to

2 (11m 11s):
do? This raccoon was behaving in a way that normal raccoons never behaved like was possessed. That's because in some sense it was it had rabies a disease that even scientists who study at called diabolical. It's a virus that attacks the aggression centers of the brain it switches off all an animal's natural inhibitions including fear and pain at the same time. It floods the animal's body with adrenaline making it stronger and more Relentless animals, which are normally shy and easy. Get away turn into tireless ferocious monsters. They become nothing but a vehicle for the virus attacking anything that moves in order to spread the disease.

2 (11m 53s):
Which meant for Michelle she couldn't just try and fling the raccoon away because would come after her again. She couldn't outrun it any trees. She could climb the raccoon could climb faster. Then Michelle remember that although she usually didn't bring her cell phone with her on walks that day. She actually had the question was how to get it out of her pocket. She needed both hands to hold the raccoon down. She was wearing big mittens, but eventually after many attempts she was able to get the phone at and toss it in the snow using the speakerphone. She called her house. She got her grown son Alex and I'm screaming I'm

3 (12m 25s):
screaming at the top of my lungs and and he acted like, you know, it was like a joke and It was because the microphone on the phone was being pinned, you know where it had this sort of strange noise and I thought to myself because it sound like he was about to hang up like it was someone doing a prank and I said I'm too in my head I said you have to come down. I said Alex I said I've been attacked on the driveway by a raccoon

2 (12m 57s):
within five minutes her husband her son Alex and his girlfriend were there. Her son grabbed a big Fallen branch and laid it across the raccoons back. He stood on one end Michelle stood on the

3 (13m 7s):
other the two of us are now holding this raccoon, which is still hissing and snarling and clawing and my husband think he says I'm going to get a tire iron out of the car and you know, try hitting it and to kill it so he goes and gets this tire iron out of the car and he starts To hit it and he figures he'll hit it once or twice and he'll kill it. Well, he starts hitting it and he you know, he probably hit it between 15 and 20 times and and you know, it's still snarling and clawing so then my you know, I said to my son's girlfriend Olga I said Olga I said go to the house and you know get a knife.

3 (14m 1s):
And in the meantime, my son takes the tire iron and my son starts beating on the Raccoon. So for at least five minutes, they're taking turns beating this raccoon. And about at the point where Olga is coming back and gets out of the car with these two big knives the raccoon, you know had died.

2 (14m 33s):
But Michelle didn't know at the time was that her encounter with not an isolated incident. There's a rabies epidemic in New York, which started in the 90s in 1989. There were only 55 rabid animal cases and the entire state by 1993. The number had reached almost 3,000. In 2004 a rabid otter swam up and attacked a six-year-old at a public beach. The child came out of the water with the otter clean by its teeth to his arm and one woman. I spoke to told me that a rabid raccoon latched

3 (15m 2s):
itself onto her leg in the middle of the day on her

2 (15m 4s):
Suburban Street when she was getting out of her car after a trip to Bed Bath &

3 (15m 7s):
Beyond. She said the police had to shoot the raccoon five times before it finally died.

2 (15m 20s):
Rabies is almost a hundred percent fatal in humans. If the vaccine is administered right after exposure in the 90s brought the first human deaths from rabies in the state and half a century there have been three to date two of them were children bitten by a rabid bats in their sleep, which brings me to a quick Public Service Announcement a bat can bite you in your sleep without you even knowing it and without leaving a mark So if you find one in a room with the sleeping person You have to catch it and have it tested and if you can't catch it, you should go to a doctor. I'm serious. I learned about this it freaked me out and I want to tell people. For Michelle, of course, there was no doubt of exposure. She had to Fang marks on her leg raccoon blood all over our clothes and a battered raccoon carcass in a plastic bag, but getting treatment proved to be its own type of Horror Story.

2 (16m 7s):
First she called the vet who told her to call the health department. She called the health department, but they were closed on weekends. So she left a message and called another Health Department in a different County same thing. Eventually. She just went to the emergency room on her own when she was told that this wasn't an emergency. She had 10 to

3 (16m 23s):
14 days before she needed to get a shot and she should just call the health department again after the weekend early Monday morning the guy from the health department where she left her first message on Saturday called her back.

2 (16m 33s):
She told him everything was fine. She'd been to the

3 (16m 35s):
hospital and I said I was told I had 10 to 14 days and he says you don't have 10 to 14 days. You have 72 hours from the moment that you are bitten. He says You must have a shot by the end of today.

2 (16m 55s):
The man on the phone was in the Michelle's County. So he told her to go to her own health department and they would give it a shot. But when she called there, they said they needed to test the carcass for rabies first, which meant sending it to the rabies laboratory two hours away and Albany Michelle beg them to just give her the shot first worry about Albany later. So they made arrangements for her to go to the closest hospital and yet another County

3 (17m 16s):
so my husband and I go and of course we have to wait time in the emergency room, and then we get in and then when we're inside then someone comes and tells me that I live in Putnam County and I'm in a hospital in Westchester and that they can't give me the shots. Oh my God. So I am so distraught at this point and I start crying

2 (17m 45s):
the first time during this whole episode. I should point out that you actually cried

3 (17m 47s):
right? I guess this was this is the first this was the first time that I cried I did, you know, I was I was you know, I survived the attack by the raccoon you survived it again over that with the tire and 50 times and then the thing that finally brought you to your knees was the US Healthcare

2 (18m 4s):
System. Yes. That's exactly

3 (18m 8s):
right. So I started to cry and I just said, you know, isn't there I said, what's the problem and then I'm starting to learn that rabies immunoglobulin is a very expensive shot and the retail price of it was something like 32 or 35 hundred

2 (18m 29s):
dollars. Finally they gave her the shot, but they gave it to her in the wrong place. The buttocks not in her arm like they were supposed to and then she needed five follow-up shots, but you couldn't find a doctor to give her any she called Eight doctors and none of them would even see her until she threatened to call the State Board of Health eventually. She got the shots. And today everything is fine. Except Michelle doesn't see her home in the woods the way she wants did as a peaceful Refuge.

3 (18m 55s):
I mean I felt so betrayed by Nature that that's actually how I felt. Felt that nature betrayed me because I would take walks every day in the woods and I had never felt threatened and I remember waking up the next day and thinking that all of the hills around me that there were raccoons standing on all these Hills waiting until I got out the door and they were going to come running towards, you know was like the Army, you know waiting for its. Victim, you know to come and and I you know, I had this image that you know, these raccoons were just all going to come down from the hills and and if I ever go to walk and I and I don't have the cell phone.

3 (19m 44s):
I I will always feel a little fear.

2 (19m 49s):
Years before her attack Michelle went on Safari in South Africa.

3 (19m 53s):
She's a lions and giraffes and rhinos

2 (19m 55s):
coming up her drive at night after she got home from the trip. She peered into the woods around her house. Imagine that there were wild animals out there like there had been on Safari. Now she says she doesn't want her about it anymore. She knows for a fact there are wild animals out there and it's not a comforting

3 (20m 11s):
thought that's

2 (20m 19s):
Bloomberg these days. He's a podcast impresario and the host of the podcast without fail.

3 (20m 35s):
I don't know. At to The Hitcher.

2 (21m 3s):
Okay, I believe that we have all learned an important lesson about rabies. I'm back timer Coons not to mention a lesson about carbon monoxide. And so to introduce this next story. I don't think there's much more I need to say right now. Hitchhiking is dangerous or can be dangerous. It can be bad and if you don't believe me Bill level tells this true story of what happened to him and his brother when I was 12 and my older brother Jim 14, our parents dropped us off at one of those agricultural fairs the kind with the big ferris wheel Blue Ribbon pigs and hot dog eating contest. This was on Martha's Vineyard and usually our parents went with us, but Jim and I were getting older he was a teenager now.

2 (21m 47s):
Wanted to do it alone. There were girls to impress. We were told to call home for a ride when we're ready. But at the end of the night we decided be cooler to hitchhike. We weren't scared. This was 1977 and Martha's Vineyard still a relatively sleepy Island everyone hitchhike there. It didn't take us long to get a ride some guy heading to Edgartown to meet his friends. We lived in Oak Bluffs out of his way, but he said he could take us halfway home Jim and I didn't even think about saying no we were too excited for the adventure to begin. True to his word. The guy dropped us off halfway home.

2 (22m 27s):
This was out by the big bridge along the Beach Road during the day. This spot is filled with people jumping off the railing into the water, but at night no one goes there no swimmers or fisherman or even kids looking to get high Jim and I stood by the side of the road listening to the ocean pound the sand the wind blow through the dunes. We peered into the darkness hoping to see headlights, but there was nothing just the moon and some stars and a knowing feeling we had made a big mistake. After about 20 minutes of standing around we finally saw a car approaching get in front. Jim said and try to look small pathetic.

2 (23m 9s):
This wasn't hard to do the car flew bias kicking Up Sand which stung my legs crap. I yelled, but then the tyres locked up and the car fishtail it skidded to a stop about a hundred yards away. We ran to the car. It was a big white cruiser with four doors. I yanked open the back. Outdoor jumped in and slid on my butt to the far window there were three people up front. The driver was hunched over the wheel and wore his hair in a thick afro a woman sat in the middle. She had straight blond hair with a crooked part running down the center another guy. So tall is head almost touch the roof of the car rode shotgun. Thanks for stopping. I said we're headed Oak Bluffs.

2 (23m 50s):
No one said a word I turned to the open door with Jim still stood. Come on. I said get in Jim hesitated. He looked into the car and shook his head back and forth. Then the driver began revving the engine. I saw my brother take a deep breath. Then he climbed in and join me his daughter barely close when the car took off. We move fast swerving in and out of our lane. No one talked the entire ride. By the time we reached Oak Bluffs I decided I didn't want these people to know where we lived. Right here will be fine. I said just passed wha-bam park down near where the Seaview hotel used to be the car. Didn't slow down thinking the driver didn't hear me.

2 (24m 31s):
I tried again. We'd like to be let out now I said we drove by Ocean Park the flying horses Carousel and then the harbor with all the boats tucked in for the night in their birth the whole time. I kept asking to be let out try and make it sound like each spot I pointed to was the one we really preferred but there was no reaction. We just kept moving. Eventually, we passed the last house along the Methodist Campground where the Sunday before I climb the stage at the old Tabernacle and sang with my cousin's before a crowd of hundred Raindrops Keep Falling On My Head.

2 (25m 13s):
We began to climb the hill that let out of town and I grew silent Jim took up where I left off recently. His voice had changed and had a new deep baritone when his voice cracked making him sound like a little kid again. He stopped talking to I tried to convince myself. It was just a joke scare the crap out of some kids on a boring Saturday night and I almost believe this but then about 15 minutes outside of town. We took a left turn to a graveyard. Jim and I knew this graveyard we had relatives buried their old whaling Captain's who helped settle the island back in the 1600s.

2 (25m 57s):
We came up here sometimes with our grandfather to pay our respects. It was a heavily wooded place with trails that Twisted deep into the forest during the day. It was fun to run along these Trails jumping out from behind a rock or bush to scare each other. We had never been up here at night though. I grabbed my brother's hand and pulled myself into his lap. Jim hug me tight and rested his cheek against mine. He had recently started shaving and I could feel the hint of Razor stubble this help calm me down. Jim was the older brother. He would know what to do. The car swerved and began circling a large Jesus statue near the front of the graveyard.

2 (26m 37s):
I was thrown from Jim's lap and landed in the opposite foot. Well, I scrambled back up as fast as I could. But before I could reach my brother's lap Again, Jim opened his door and jumped out of the car. We were still moving fast in the open door flap in the wind. I felt a hand on my shoulder and looked up. It was The Tall Man his fingers were strong dug into my collarbone. I ducked back into the seat. Well and crawl to the door the man still held me by the shoulder, but I pushed as hard as I could with my legs when I left from the car. He lost his grip for a moment. I floated in the air when I hit the ground I rolled for a long time.

2 (27m 23s):
I got up and ran towards the woods. I could see a light in the distance and headed for it. The woods opened up into a small clearing and there was a house in a party in full swing. Lots of people stood outside drinking around a keg as soon as I reach the lawn. I turned around to look for my brother. He was still back in the graveyard running down one of the dirt road to the car right behind him Jim ice cream. Jim over here crowded formed around me, but I didn't. Get them. I just kept screaming my brother's name and then he was there bursting through the woods and running across the lawn until a clothesline flattened him. I ran to him kneel down and put my hand on his chest you okay? I asked yeah, he said you before I could answer a tall kid with thick glasses squatted down next to us.

2 (28m 11s):
What the hell is going on? He asked Jim and I stood up began telling everyone what had happened. While we were talking four guys from the party ran off to the graveyard. The car's headlights were still visible moving through the woods looking for us. There was shouting and then the headlights disappeared when the guys returned. They said the car took off before they could get the license plate. The tall kid with the glasses walk to The Keg poured two beers into blue plastic cups and offered them to us Jim and I chugged them down and ask for more. Later, two women gave us a ride home. I refuse to sit in the backseat wrote up front with the driver. Her name was Betsy and she had long brown hair and tan skin her father owned the flying horses.

2 (28m 55s):
And I'd seen her around town on the drive home. She rubbed my hair put her arm around my shoulder when we reached our house Betsy walked with us to the front door and stood on the porch while we told our parents what had happened mom bent down to her face was level with mine. Dad stood next to Jim my parents were very young. Mom even got carded. Sometimes at R-rated movies dad were thick mustache and look good in a tight white T-shirt while we were talking my grandparents who had already gone to bed came down the stairs and their bathrobes close the door. Graham said you're letting in the mosquitoes Betsy patted me on the cheek and then walked back to her car.

2 (29m 38s):
the rest of us went into the living room where Jim and I told our story once more What do you think grandpa asked should we call the police for a moment? No one spoke. It's late. Dad. Finally said I think the boys have had enough for one night. Grandpa did my head. It's over and everyone safe. She said no need to drag it out. I looked at mom she nodded and so I did the same not because I agreed but I didn't disagree either. I was just glad to be home. Let's go to bed. Dad said there's tennis in the morning. Mom walked me to my bedroom and old storeroom. I cleaned out the beginning of summer so I could finally have a room of my own after she took me and I lay there and tried to think about tennis and Labor Day weekend.

2 (30m 25s):
Just three days away in a little over a week. I would officially be a seventh grader, but I couldn't concentrate. I kept seeing the people in the front seat of that car. Maybe they had followed Betsy's car home from the graveyard and were waiting outside to get me. I rub my shoulder with a tall man at grabbed me and got out of bed. I change out of my pajamas into jeans. My favorite green basketball t-shirt. Then I laid down on the floor and slid underneath my bed for a moment. I felt safe and hidden but it didn't last I got up and walked to Jim's room. But when I got there I realized I didn't want to go in I continue down the hall and stood outside my parents bedroom.

2 (31m 7s):
I could hear them talking quietly together. I almost knocked on their door instead. I turned away moved on to the front room. Where my youngest brother Ted slept. Ted was six years old. He'd been asleep when we came home and so didn't know what had happened. I crawled into bed with him and started crying really crying so that I had to stuff a pillow with my mouth to keep the noise in. Ted woke up. I didn't say anything at first. He just patted me on the back. Then he asked me what was wrong, but I couldn't speak I could only cry and hope he kept patting me and he did until I finally fell asleep.

2 (31m 53s):
Bill level in New York

1 (31m 57s):
Coming

2 (31m 58s):
up David Sedaris. He's dead people and other scary stories that are absolutely true in a minute Chicago public radio when our program continues. Support for This American Life comes from State Farm State Farm agents know that sometimes life throws everything at you at once like a fender bender when you're already late when it comes to auto and home insurance State Farm agents are ready to help. You can talk to your State Farm agent via text over the phone in person or using the State Farm app, which is super handy with voice-activated commands that let you see your bill get claim updates or call an agent and with more than 19,000 age.

2 (32m 39s):
And there's one close to you find an agent at statefarm.com and from rocket mortgage by Quicken Loans providing you with an award winning team by your side through the mortgage process. Their goal is to make the home buying process smoother for you with a history of Industry leading online lending technology developed in Detroit rocket mortgage is changing the game. Visit rocket mortgage.com American Equal Housing lender licensed in all 50 states and MLS consumer access dot org number 30 30 rocket mortgage by Quicken Loans push-button get mortgage. What's this american guy from Ira Glass.

2 (33m 21s):
He took in our program. We choose a theme bring you a variety of different kinds of stories on that theme Today Show and The call was coming from the basement. We have scary stories for Halloween all of them. Absolutely true. We've arrived at act three of our program at 3, and the call was coming from the listeners Today's Show is a rerun but back when I first did this show we invited you. Yes you to call a special. Hundred number that we set up here at our radio show to tell us your true scary stories hundreds of people called with all kinds of stories. Here's a selection.

1 (33m 59s):
My name is Erica Park. This is from when I was I guess 18. I worked at a dollhouse supply store. So I was already sort of in a creepy environment or little doll heads and hair and eyeballs. I come home after closing at the shop and about 10:00 at night and I didn't have my own car at the time. So I would either get a ride from my parents or my dad would let me use his tracker and I would drive myself home. So I was driving myself home this night. And since I was driving my dad tracker, I would have expected him to be home and upholds the house and all the lights were out.

1 (34m 40s):
I don't know if you ever have the feeling where you know, someone's watching you I guess or even though all the signs are that. No, once you can feel that there's someone present. So I parked in front of the house walk to the front steps about myself in is completely black. I remember like Whispering. Hello. Is there anybody home and all of a sudden in a stairwell the shape of a man and what I saw later with a baseball bat, but could have been anything to me at the time Rudolph out of the dark stairwell and that's when I knew I was Dead murdered mutilated something horrible.

1 (35m 30s):
And drop to the ground apparently without even a Yelp of protest pretty much just a whimper into fetal position. I heard laughing and the light turned on it was my dad. This is his idea of a joke and then later he claimed that it was a character-building test and that now I knew myself better and knew that I needed to prepare be prepared for being mugged or attacked the dark because I didn't even Defend myself that that moment that moment when my dad wrote up on the stairs. And it could have been just about anybody was one of the scariest moments of my life.

1 (36m 14s):
Hi, my name is Amy McKinnon. I was about two and a half and it was told around my little neighborhood that a monster had escaped from the local insane asylum. That's what my parents told my brothers and me and our And parents told them in the monster was tall and green really quiet and ferocious so they had to cancel Halloween and we were of course devastated but my parents said well because Halloween's canceled will have a party in the basement in our basement will have all of the friends over from the neighborhood because it would just be too dangerous to be out in the dark.

1 (37m 3s):
The monster on the loose. So my mother decorated our basement she did a fantastic job the best part. I remember where the donuts that were hanging from a clothesline. So the party's going really well. All of the kids are there are a few mothers there. The music's playing and all of a sudden we heard a boom from upstairs. And my mother said the music stopped and my mother was nearly and then we heard boom boom. and it was dead silence in the basement and a mother said what was that?

1 (37m 45s):
And another mother said I think it's the monster. And all of a sudden we heard the basement door creaking open, then I saw this enormous black boot on the first step from and then the next boom very slowly. I could see the boots the legs. Enormous chest and sticking straight out to arms and the monster came down the stairs so slowly but it's green space.

1 (38m 30s):
It's black suit was too short for it that bolts coming out of either side of its neck. Once the arms were visible chaos in the basement kids screaming running everywhere. My mother was next to me. I not quite three grabbed hold of her thigh and I can remember digging my fingers into her leg trying desperately to clock on to something screaming and I wet my pants and I could remember seeing my older brother Scott Rafe for a toy chest that was under the stairs.

1 (39m 12s):
And I can see his eyes meeting his eyes as he slowly lowered the lid and I was so angry that I wasn't with him. I can remember my other brothers Rob and Michael leaping for the basement window. Another must have been something under it that helped them propel them out the window. They jumped out the window with a friend. They ran down the street to a phone booth. Somehow had a quarter in called the police. Meanwhile kids are screaming and screaming and screaming everywhere in the monster is bewildered. He's looking around his arms are still outstretched. He not saying anything he's not grabbing for anyone and I'm still screaming my ears hurt because I'm screaming so loudly and then the monster looked at me and he said it's okay Amy, it's okay.

1 (40m 1s):
It's okay, but I couldn't hear him anymore. The next thing I remember is being in a little makeshift bed my parents kitchen and my mother was there and later after my father had showered. I can remember him walking to the kitchen. I turned my head and could see his feet and then he crouched down to talk to me. He said Amy. But before he could get another workout, I threw up on his shoes. Hi, this is Jesse boring.

1 (40m 41s):
I don't know if this is the kind of scary story looking for but the scariest thing is probably ever happened in my life. My mom had surgery for bladder cancer and got her bladder removed and I spent the night in the hospital with her the night after her surgery and I guess when you're Ventilated for long enough artificially your body sort of forgets to breathe for itself. And so after she came out of her surgery took, you know number of hours. She was her breathing in these two ragged gasps and sometimes it would take her a long time before she took her next breath and so my job was sort of to make sure that you know, she didn't at least the job I gave myself with to make sure there wasn't too long between her breasts and so I would Nudge her or wake her up a little bit if it took too long and so I was beside her in her hospital room while she was sleeping and I was trying to stay awake.

1 (41m 42s):
I think she went in around midnight and around probably two in the morning or so. I think I fell asleep. So around 4:00 in the morning. I heard the nurse started to open up the door and I suddenly realized I had fallen asleep and I listened in the dark for for her. Press and I didn't hear it. And I became convinced that she wasn't going to breathe again and that just because I had fallen asleep, you know, she was gone. I think it's actually more scared I've ever been in my life and I think it was so scary.

1 (42m 23s):
That was that there was just no way of getting it back. It's something stupid like falling asleep, and there's nothing I was ever gonna be able to do to change it. And then a couple seconds later. I heard her breathe again and Then it was all over I moved strange because nobody knew what had gone on but me nobody really knew that anything scary happened with me. That's my story.

2 (42m 60s):
Thanks to everybody who caught our special scary stories hotline, if you keeping track this great things that we have learned so far today that we must avoid at all costs. Are these a number one carbon monoxide number two rabid Animals number three hitchhiking number for your own parents. This actually brings us to act for we're going to learn a few more things to avoid act for Shift, you know the ghosts and skeletons and monsters you rise from the grave on Halloween or a kind of a fake children's story version of death, but one Halloween a couple years ago a David Sedaris decided he was going to go for the real thing on Halloween who's going to for the real thing the medical examiner's office the morgue basically the morgue a place filled with actual dead people he read his account of what happened there in front of a live audience at the Orpheum Theater in Minneapolis.

2 (43m 49s):
The thing about dead people is that

3 (43m 51s):
they look really dead fake almost like models made of wax this I learned at a medical examiner's office. I visited in the fall of 1997 while the body seemed unreal the tools used to pick them apart were disturbingly familiar. It might be different in places with better funding but here they used hedge clippers to snip through rib cages. Chest cavities were emptied of blood with cheap metal soup ladles the kind they use in cafeterias and the autopsy tables were lubricated with whatever dish detergent happened to be on sale also familiar with the songs oldies.

3 (44m 31s):
Mainly that issued from the blood spattered clock radio and formed a kind of soundtrack when I was young I Associated Three Dog Night with my 7th grade shop teacher who proudly identified himself as the Biggest fan now though whenever I hear Joy to the World, I think of a fibroid tumor positioned upon a styrofoam plate funny how that happens while at the medical examiner's office. I dressed in a protective suit complete with a bonnet and a pair of Tyvek booties citizens were disemboweled one right after another and on the surface.

3 (45m 12s):
I'm sure I seemed fine with it then at night I'd be Turn to my hotel double lock the door and stand under the shower until all the soap and shampoo was used up. The people in the Next Room must have wondered what was going on an hour of running water. And then this blubbery voice. I do believe in Spooks. I do believe in Spooks. I do I do I do I do I do. It's not like I'd walked into this completely unprepared even as a child. I was fascinated by death not in a spiritual sense, but in an aesthetic one a hamster or guinea pig would pass away and after bearing the body, I dig it back up over and over until all that remained was a shoddy Pelt that earned me a certain reputation, especially when I moved onto other people's past.

3 (46m 11s):
Igor they called me wicked spooky, but I think my interest was actually fairly common at least amongst adolescent boys at that age death is something that happens only to animals and grandparents and studying. It is like a science project the good kind that doesn't involve homework most kids grow out of it, but the passing of time only heightened my curiosity As a teenager, I saved up my babysitting money and bought a $75 copy of medical legal investigations of death a sort of Bible for forensic Pathologists. It shows what you might look like.

3 (46m 52s):
If you bid an extension cord while standing in a shallow pool of water. If you were crushed by a tractor struck by lightning strangled with a spiral or non spiral telephone cord hit with a claw hammer burn shot ground stabbed or feasted upon by wild or domestic animals. The captions read like really great poem titles my favorite being extensive mildew on the face of a recluse. I stared at that picture for hours on end hoping it might inspire me, but I know nothing about poetry and the best I came up with was pretty lame.

3 (47m 43s):
Behold the recluse looking pensive mildew though is quite extensive on his head both Afghan for he maybe should have got out more. I know nothing about biology either the pathologist tried to educate me, but I was too distracted by the grotesque. My Discovery for instance that if you jump from a tall building and land on your back your eyes will pop out of your head and hang by Bloody cables like those joke glasses I said to the chief medical examiner the man was nothing if not professional and his response to my observations was always the same well, he died not really.

3 (48m 45s):
After a week in the autopsy Suite I still couldn't open a Denny's menu without wanting to throw up at night. I'd close my eyes and see the buckets of withered hand stored in the morgue secondary cooler. They had brains to a whole wall of them shall like preserves in a general store. Then there were the bits and pieces forsaken. Torso a pretty blond scalp a pair of eyes floating in a baby food jar. Put them all together and you had an incredibly bright secretary. Who could type like the wind but never answer the telephone?

3 (49m 27s):
I'd lie awake thinking of things like this, but then my mind would return to the freshly Dead who are most often whole or at least whole ish. Most of them were delivered naked zipped up and identical body bags family members were not allowed inside the building and so the corpses had no context unconnected to the living. There were like these strange creatures. Related only to one another a police report would explain that. Mrs. Daniels had been killed when a truck lost control and drove through the front window of a hamburger stand. She had been a customer waiting in line in cases like hers. I needed more than a standard report there had to be a reason this woman was run down as without one the same thing might happen to me three men are shot to death while attending a child's christening and you tell yourself Self sure.

3 (50m 21s):
They were hanging out with the wrong crowd. But buying a hamburger. I buy hamburgers or I used to anyway. This medical examiner's office was in the Western United States in a city where guns are readily available and drivers are known to shoot each other over parking spaces. The building was low-slung and mean-looking said on the far edge of the downtown area between the railroad tracks and a rubber stamp manufacturer in the lobby was a potted plant and a receptionist who kept a can of Mountain Glen air freshener in her desk drawer for decomps.

3 (51m 6s):
She explained Meaning those who died alone and rotted a while before being found. We had such a case on Halloween an elderly man who had tumbled from a ladder while replacing a light bulb four and a half days on the floor of his on air-conditioned home and as the bag was unzipped the room filled with what the attending pathologist termed the smell of job security. The autopsy took place in the morning and was the best argument for the buddy system I had ever seen.

3 (51m 52s):
Never live alone. I told myself. Before you change a lightbulb call someone from the other room and have them watch until you're finished by this point in my stay my list of don'ts covered three pages and included such reminders as never fall asleep in a dumpster never drive a convertible behind a flatbed truck never get drunk near a train never get old. I hadn't timed my visit to coincide with Halloween, but that's the way it worked out.

3 (52m 33s):
You think that most of the casualties would involve trick-or-treaters hit by cars or done in by tainted candy, but actually the day was just like any other in the morning. We had our decomposed senior and after lunch. I accompanied a female pathologist to a murder trial. She had performed the victims autopsy and was testifying on behalf of the prosecution. There were plenty of things that should have concerned me the blood spatter evidence the trajectory of the bullets, but all I could concentrate on was the defendants mother who'd come to court wearing cutoff jeans and a Ghostbusters t-shirt. I couldn't have been easy for her.

3 (53m 15s):
But still you had to wonder what would she consider a dress up occasion? After the trial I watched as another female pathologist collected maggots from a spinal column found in the desert. There was a decomposed head to before leaving work. She planned to simmer it and study the exposed Cranium for contusions. I was asked to pass this information along to the chief medical. Go examiner and looking back. I perhaps should have chosen my words more carefully fire up the cattle.

3 (53m 59s):
I told him. Old-fashioned skull boil at 5 p.m. It was of course the fear talking that in a pathetic desire to appear casual one of the gang that evening instead of returning to my hotel. I sat around with the Transporters one of whom had recently been ticketed for using the carpool lane and had argued unsuccessfully. Is that the dead body? He was carrying in the back constituted a second passenger.

3 (54m 41s):
It was just the four of us until around midnight. When a Tipsy man in the Daytona Beach sweatshirt came to the front gate and ask for a tour when told no, he gestured toward an idling car and got his girlfriend to ask the young woman was lovely and flirtatious and as she pressed herself against the bars, I imagined her lying upon an autopsy table her organs piled in a glistening heat beside her. I now looked at everyone this way and it worried me that I'd never be able to stop. This was the consequence of seeing too much and understanding the horrible Truth No One Is Safe the world is not manageable.

3 (55m 26s):
The trick-or-treater may not be struck down on Halloween but sooner or later he is going to get it as I'm on I and everyone I have ever cared about. It goes without saying that for the next few weeks. I was not much fun to live with an early November. I returned home and repelled every single person. I came into contact with gradually though my gloominess wore off by Thanksgiving. I was imagining people naked rather than dead and naked and this was an improvement. A week later. I was back to smoking in bed. And just as I thought that I'd put it all behind me.

3 (56m 7s):
I went to my neighborhood grocery store and saw an elderly woman slip on a grape. She fell hard and after running to her side. I took her by the arm, you really have to watch yourself and this produce aisle. I know it. She said I could have broken my leg. Actually, I told her. You could have been killed the woman attempted to stand but I wouldn't let her I'm serious. I told her people die this way. I've seen it. Her expression changed then and became fearful rather than merely pain.

3 (56m 54s):
It was the look you get when facing some sudden and insurmountable danger the errant truck the shaky ladder the crazy person who holds you too tight and insists with ever increasing urgency that everything, you know, and love can be undone by a grape David Sedaris is the author of several books.

2 (57m 24s):
most recently go up so

3 (57m 32s):
I got a

2 (57m 33s):
weapon of my speech today by James Murray myself with Alex blumberg Ian Cooke Lisa Pollock was ship Ali Spiegel, and that's the Updike senior producer for today's show was Julie Snyder additional production on the rerun from Jessica luessenhop director. My Mondo still Nelson and Matt Tierney music up today from Jessica Hopper our website this American life.org This American Life stood the public radio stations

3 (58m 11s):
by PRX the public radio

2 (58m 14s):
exchange sport for This American Life comes from the Lagunitas Brewing Company feeling stories and songs with Lagunitas IPA. And of course committed to keeping the pub in public radio, but I'm or won't you I'll uh who need us.com. There's always your programs co-founder mystery Melody. Hoo hoo hee hee he's coming up behind me.

3 (58m 38s):
No

2 (58m 41s):
back next week. I hope with more stories in This American Life.