Capital One (1s):
Support for This American Life comes from the Capital One Walmart Rewards Card. Earn 5% back at Walmart online 2% at Walmart in store at restaurants and on travel and 1% everywhere else the Capital One Walmart Rewards Card, what's in your wallet terms and exclusions apply

synchrony (20s):
and from the new season of business schooled a podcast by synchrony new host Sariah Darby is hitting the road digging into eight businesses to find out why More Founders are succeeding than have in the past 30 years. Listen And subscribe to business school the season to wherever you get your podcasts.

1 (40s):
Katie's been on the job for 20 years. He's got the uniform. He's got the office in the basement behind the laundry room. He's got the keys. But hey, I just count basically count them.

2 (56s):
All right, so you got your 1 2 3 4 5 6

1 (58s):
7 8 9 10 11. This is a key ring. That is so big that it not only has tons of keys as I have smaller baby keyring subsidiary keyrings hanging off of it each with its own keys. And I was none of these Keys has any kind of label indicating what it is that it opens. And if you ever seen a guy carrying this kind of thing you've wondered. Okay. Well, how does he remember which key goes to which? Wait a second. Here's another donkey on every five 46 47 48

2 (1m 23s):
49. It's about 50

1 (1m 25s):
Keys actually skipped a lot of keys. Anyway, I was saying if you ever wondered how he remembers which key goes to which thing Peter says three-fourths of these skis, he has no idea what they're for every time I change a lock

2 (1m 38s):
or you

1 (1m 39s):
know, I get a new key to this or that it just gets added on their

2 (1m 43s):
never took the time to take the old ones

1 (1m 45s):
off practical above. All Peter is a practical man. And his I don't work that's essential. He's a super charge of keeping the elevators humming and the boiler going and the roof from leaking and the sidewalks clean and a hundred other things every single day. He works at a fancy building on New York's Upper East Side. Maybe I should say it's a medium fancy building fancy enough that Woody Allen and mayor Giuliani shop for apartments there but not fancy enough that they actually moved in told a job. Like this were very long even in a medium

2 (2m 13s):
fancy building. You have to sweat the details of everything my compact a room a woman could Birth no infection would set in come I'll show you

1 (2m 22s):
uses a key from the part of the key chamber. He knows what's going on and suddenly were in an Immaculate room concrete floors.

2 (2m 28s):
Oh my God. It's so wonderful in here. And this is the garbage room. It doesn't smell like garbage. No, we want to go up to the roof and oil a circulation pumps with me that really has to be the worst pick-up line

1 (2m 41s):
ever. We drop by the pump room to check some gauges and then we head back into the elevator and passed one of the doorman who works with Peter on your parole officer called give him a call

2 (2m 52s):
Martin Smiles the doors closed. So can you joke around with the tenants in this building not like

1 (2m 57s):
that

2 (2m 59s):
now you don't want to go there. I'm pretty friendly with some of them but there's a line. Yeah,

1 (3m 7s):
I tell these guys you got to keep it short and

2 (3m 8s):
sweet, you know, good morning. Good evening. How about them Knicks? Happy holidays. Martin's kind of knew he wanted to say happy Hanukkah to a few people. I said Nana Nana Nana no, merry Christmas and happy Hanukkah. It's happy holidays. Well blue. I said now you're going to miss your going to miss Tony you're going to miss you gonna throw one the wrong way. It's gonna come

1 (3m 36s):
back. Is delegate dealing with the tenants surprisingly delicate, you know people in the building gossip

2 (3m 43s):
about him, then he's got his own secret thoughts about them too. But today in our program we have stories of the super. This is everybody come and go he knows way more about the tenants and they know about him when Peter is a security camera for God's sake he's on call 24 hours a day is about a figure of authority and kind of an in house servant from WBEZ Is This American Life? I'm Ira Glass

1 (4m 10s):
our show today in three acts three. Very

2 (4m 12s):
dramatic X actually starting let's just get right to it starting with this one from Jack hit

1 (4m 18s):
this act is like a an Epic Novel with plot twists and unforeseen danger and bizarre coincidences and unlikely Heroes and even more unlikely bad guys. Here's Jack.

2 (4m 30s):
During New York City's great crime wave of the 1980s getting an apartment with simple. All you had to do was commit a crime.

1 (4m 37s):
We had heard from a friend of a friend that if we went down and gave key

2 (4m 41s):
money that if to say one month's rent is the going fee to the superintendent that is to say Bob that we would be able to get an apartment. This is my friend Kevin he and I got our apartments in the same building on 99th Street and the early 80s by bribing the same suit. Tender a guy named Bob. These were old beat-up Flats with screaming radiators and warp floors and exposed pipes a city engineer once inspected the building and declared that it was six stories of dust held up by a hundred years of paint. These were our first New York apartments. We were there to start our lives New York was all romance and everything was out size and outrageous the buildings in Midtown our ambition The Nightlife and as we quickly discovered our super Bob all sorts of things about him were truly spectacular like for example, the way he repaired our Apartments.

2 (5m 37s):
Here's Chris another tenant in the building after we got burglarized

1 (5m 43s):
Bob put in safety gates for the fire

2 (5m 47s):
escape, which he

1 (5m 51s):
welded so that nobody could get in but you couldn't get out in a fire either. It was no way.

2 (6m 9s):
He

1 (6m 9s):
told us that they were installing a sliding revolving doors. He never explained what those were but I do remember like like thinking to myself. How can he say they're sliding revolving doors, but he said it was such a totally straight face.

2 (6m 27s):
Bob's work habits were a thing of wonder. I remember one time Bob showed up with his assistant generally talented guy named Smitty my sink was backed up and Bob started pouring this heavy black liquid from a gallon jug into the standing water Smitty started backing up and put the experiences my guide. I started backing up to one cup Smitty yelled just one cup shut up Bob explained and he emptied the entire jug into the water. There were nasty Rumblings hot chemical reactions were happening somewhere in the walls. I was very scared and suddenly the doors below the sink where I kept my cleaning stuff. They blew open with an explosion and this unspeakable oily sludge poured out across the kitchen floor.

2 (7m 11s):
Bob was so much more than just a bad handyman

1 (7m 14s):
very early on I began to perceive Bob's talents

2 (7m 18s):
as a fabulous,

1 (7m 20s):
you know, if you know, it's

2 (7m 21s):
really painful to go down and pay the rent every month because I had to give it to him which meant you had to stand there and listen to you know, 10 15, 20 minutes of completely insane stories a big running theme was Bob's importance in the world in general and particularly in Brazil.

1 (7m 41s):
Remember his cattle ranch stories.

2 (7m 43s):
This is an another tenant during those early days. And now married to Chris.

1 (7m 48s):
He had seven cattle ranches

2 (7m 50s):
for cattle ranches. He owned a Brazil and the 7 Vineyards he had in Italy or it might have been seven cattle ranches in Brazil and for vineyards in

1 (7m 58s):
Italy if you actually took him if after he left the room and you thought about what he said

2 (8m 3s):
you think why is he living here?

1 (8m 5s):
Because he was like, you know a basically a

2 (8m 7s):
king you don't want me to the Village People would just welcome him. He claimed that there was a clause in the constitution of Brazil that gave him immunity from any any prosecution whatsoever. And that in fact, he could he could as he put it Go and Kill the President of the Brazilian State and he would still be immune from prosecution. Of course Bob being Bob had an Well Nation for how he went from being a South American Cattle Baron to a New York City Super. He had had two heart attacks and his doctor had had this is an actual actual story.

1 (8m 53s):
His doctor had prescribed that he gained a lot of weight

2 (8m 58s):
and and and moved to America. So

1 (9m 1s):
probably the first time in medical history there that

2 (9m 4s):
that enormous weight gain was prescribed for a heart condition. In his own way Bob United the building all of us the elderly black businessman the Puerto Rican grandmother the handsome Bombay immigrant me the southern Exile. We all had our favorite Bob stories. We all did our own impersonations of Bob. It was impossible not to try to out Bob. Whoever was talking with an even more outlandish Bob story of your own. We collected and traded Bob stories comparing versions analyzing his

1 (9m 42s):
He was from are completely unfazed by any show of

2 (9m 45s):
skepticism about these stories. There was a story about how he had once hung a bag of acid from the roof of the building to chase away. The various homeless men who would and in those days often come and congregate by the by The Edge at the corner of this building. Bob had supposedly hung up bag of acid from the top that would drip down steadily on now. I have no idea how

1 (10m 11s):
You hang a bag of ass how you get the acid in the bag and put that up there? That's that no, no small feat in itself. But of course the best part is Bob is telling us the story at the very same time that you could lean out of the office where he's talking and see the three or four homeless guys

2 (10m 32s):
sitting sitting on the corner

1 (10m 35s):
apparently completely

2 (10m 37s):
unscarred or bothered by dripping acid. The other story that I've always found really captured just sort of like all of Bob's Essence for me was when every Kitchen in this building has these funny circular fluorescent bulbs, very specialized, you know light bulbs. They're also in the hallways out in the on the first floor and mine after 10 years of noble service van the burnt out and I looked at it and I thought Huh? Where do you buy one of those? So I tried it on down to Bob's office one morning, and I said Bob, you know the light bulb in my kitchen is burned out and I'm just wondering do I buy that and replace it?

2 (11m 23s):
And if so, where do you buy them or do y'all just replace that for me? And of course he went into this total Bob tear he's like, yes, that's right. You let me tell you something Mister. Don't try to steal one of the light bulbs in the hallway. I know what you're thinking but I've booby-trapped them and if you climb up there and you try to take the lightbulb it will blow. Blow up and shoot the glass in your eyes and you will be blind for all time. Yeah everything so I take that to mean that I have to buy the bulb myself. The very opposite of Bob was Allen the landlord if Bob was larger than life.

2 (12m 4s):
Alan was smack in the middle the average percentile. He had a family he lived in White Plains had met his wife doing business with Alan was a completely routine experience if it was a toilet to be fixed. He'd make sure the crew got there on time and got it done Even in our biggest blowouts. He was always reasonable civil even One time things got a little testy when Allen started neglecting the old Puerto Rican folks in the building. I become friendly with one grandmother who showed me her tub full of green stagnant bathwater Alan and I had some tents words and I and some others even held meetings to start a rent strike, but in the end Alan gracefully withdrew and we all went back to normal business back to Bob the inscrutable endless mystery.

2 (12m 51s):
That was Bob fast forward to 1989. I'd been in my apartment. Man 8 years, I had a steady job and I was walking to work one morning somewhere along the way I saw the Daily News blaring the latest tabloid Crime Story headline Terror landlord. I looked closer and realized it was Alan my Allen the landlord the nice guy whose kids I knew. The story was incredible. He'd been arrested for murder for hiring hit man to kill his brother-in-law Arthur cats in 1980 and a story got out it quickly became clear that Bob was the one who would rat it Alan out Alan was found guilty and sentenced to 25 years to life in prison where he remains today.

2 (13m 49s):
More time passed. I got a new apartment in the West Village. Then I got married had children and later moved to another state or Allen and Bob became memories proof that I lived in New York back when crack was King and the murder rates top two thousand a year. In the late 90s almost a decade after I'd last seen Barbara Allen. I was working on an investigative piece about money laundering and a source at the treasury Department. It suggests that I call this really smart prosecutor in New York named John Moscow. So I rang him up and started just yakking the way you do. I asked him if he'd handle Financial crime a lot and he was quick to say that he'd worked homicide in New York back in the 80s during the crime wave when crack was King and the murder rate stop mm a year.

2 (14m 34s):
Yeah, I said I live there too. I told him I was actually involved in one of those tabloid stories mine involving a landlord and hired Contract Killers two murders brother-in-law and then gets ratted out by the super. There was a peculiar pause on the phone. Then Moscow said Alan Stern West 99th Street. I'm the guy who put him behind bars, right? Way, of course, we started talking about Bob. I told him the light bulb story Moscow had a good laugh and then I went on and the way we residents of 99th Street can do and finally got to the one about Bob claiming that he had a special exemption from the Brazilian Constitution and could murder anyone in Brazil again.

2 (15m 22s):
There was that odd Moscow pause and then he said

1 (15m 25s):
yeah. The thing is that one's kind of true. I asked him when you were in the military. What were you You were you assigned? I was the military

2 (15m 35s):
police. Here's John Moscow describing Bob's testimony on the witness

1 (15m 40s):
stand. And what was your job my job was to locate interrogate and execute politically unreliable Persons. Get out of here. Bob had been in the death squad in Brazil. And he was asked did you kill any people while you were there? Yes, the more than one. Yes. What's more than five? I don't know. What do you mean? You don't know? Well, if you shoot somebody at long range and they go down you don't know if they're dead or wounded. There comes a point when you realize that beneath all of the fanciful stories are usually is a substantial amount of Truth.

1 (16m 26s):
He said he came North for his health. And perhaps to protect his heart but he was thinking about high impact lead poisoning. Apparently a number of and he was in his 20s when he was in the death squad and he realized one point that a substantial number of people in his Squad were dead violence causes which would be consistent either with their Being suicidal in the risks. They took or with somebody having a list of the names and where they were located someone whose relatives had been mishandled.

1 (17m 11s):
So he decided that leaving was good for his health.

2 (17m 23s):
All those crazy Bob stories we swap for years who'd have thought that the truth about Bob would be just as crazy according to Moscow. Not only had Bob been in a death squad, but he had been a key figure in the murder of albums brother-in-law Bob was crucial in securing the talents of the two hit men named Sammy feet and crazy Joe. And according to the court documents Bob was in the boiler room with some of his crew when news of the hit came down. They celebrated with martini and Rossi and things really got going when a portable radio just happened to belt out that Queen

1 (17m 55s):
song, you know the one it was just one of numerous crimes brilliant crimes really

2 (18m 9s):
the Bob and Alan pulled off from that little office. It turns out that when it comes to Crime Bob was incredibly competent. He and Alan set up dummy construction companies. They de frauded the state with counterfeit charges to force that one tenant. They rewired the electrical outlets to high voltage lines to fry all the apartment appliances. My favorite was their natural gas scam. They put fake cones out on the street and actually jack-hammered through the asphalt who were working gas line. They bypassed the meters and in time eliminated more than 800,000. Hours of Alan's gas bills on top of all this Bob help the prosecution snare Allen Bob tap Talons phones Bob wore a wire and in court transcripts Allen calmly ways the relative merits of buying off some people versus having them killed and this is what really comes across when you talk to Moscow.

2 (19m 2s):
Just how wrong all of us were at sizing up Bob and Alan

1 (19m 6s):
when we had twenty two hundred homicides in New York as opposed to fewer than 500, which is what we're on for this year. You had a lot of people talking about killing people. There is a certain. Rationality and cold-bloodedness about this murder. That was just plain different. And I just Bob testified under oath at trial. I watched him when he was being cross-examined. and I don't think I'll ever forget. Defense counsel asked him.

1 (19m 47s):
Did you torture men or women? And he said my specialty was man. And the way he said it my blood felt about 10 degrees colder. I there was just absolute did the courtroom. Everyone was persuaded that he meant

2 (20m 12s):
it. So how did Bob former Brazilian death squad officer? I doubt

1 (20m 27s):
Alan Bobby thing called tips to report the murder tips, right? I mean like the 1-800 number. What are the local crime reporting that 7 tips or whatever? Yeah, so he calls that and then he goes and makes an appointment and meets with the major case Squad

2 (20m 44s):
what drove him to turn Allen

1 (20m 46s):
in? Alan and his family had discussed selling the building and moving to Florida and in the course of that Alan. Had discussed having the president and the vice president of the tenants Association murdered. And Bob figured that Alan was going to have these two guys. Whacked and blame Bob. What year was this? This was 1988.

2 (21m 17s):
Now, I only bring that up because there was a there was a one point there was a rent strike that was going to be put together in my building and I was the tenant leader of that I mean,

1 (21m 31s):
was that the rent

2 (21m 33s):
problem that Alan was upset

1 (21m 35s):
about unless it was another rent strike. So so Alan might have actually tried to get me whacked ultimately Bob went into the police station and admitted his own role in a murder. And thought he was going to prison because his perception of the time was that Alan would cause these murders to take place and so he protected himself by writing out

2 (22m 5s):
first. So Bob turning State's evidence basically saved my life or the life of the tenant organizers. That was Bob's thought. I found Bob. I reached him on the phone and we had a nice chat. He remembers me as the Tall Blond guy on the first floor. He wanted to talk to me for this story. But his lawyer told him not today or ever and then Bob suggested that I not bother to call back. I wanted to ask him about the cattle ranches and being written into the Constitution and give those stories a fresh listen knowing what I know now, and of course I wanted to know whether I was the one who was going to Get whacked.

2 (22m 52s):
I wasn't the only tenant organizer in the building at the time, but I'll never get that answer now. All I have is another Bob Story full of details. I can't confirm but so delicious that I can't wait to go back to my old Pals and tell it to them. So this is one of the lawyers talking to Bob during the trial when you begin your testimony on Direct yesterday, you told us about your military experience in Brazil. I would like to Christian and live in Queens now now I read to them the court transcripts the John Moscow told me about was it more than ten more than 10.

2 (23m 32s):
All right. Let's go on. Did you torture both men and women my specialty was men.

1 (23m 39s):
Holy okay, little fur. No. I

2 (23m 44s):
think this is the testimony that you know, this is I mean it's under oath.

1 (23m 50s):
How you've taken it to a whole new level, sir. Whoa, you know what? It does make you go sort of go back and rethink like the whole pattern of like exchanges you had with him. I never Community. Like I never said to myself. There's some reality to who this guy says he is who I mean I used to get furious at

2 (24m 20s):
him.

1 (24m 21s):
But like the thing I was talking to like a murdering torturer is definitely toying with us. Yeah. Now it's like a different level of toy, you know IQ instead of just being some aspects. It's like he's a professional. I feel like I'm sitting here amazed now that we weren't looking for sure not only psychologically

2 (24m 43s):
tortured, but he I mean we this this could have been a very

1 (24m 46s):
horrible story. You know,

2 (24m 48s):
what her our current super is looking much

1 (24m 51s):
better.

2 (24m 60s):
It doesn't surprise me in a way again. Here's Kevin, you know, I mean, it's like either talk is talk about the banality of evil. You know, he strikes me as one of these, you know, one of these Eichmann type characters who would in certain contexts

1 (25m 16s):
do completely

2 (25m 18s):
awful disgusting things and then if removed from them in putting the some more peaceful, you know beIN all surrounding would settle back and just be a windy.

1 (25m 28s):
Wendy superintendent of a building, you know,

2 (25m 32s):
it was kind of interesting though, like after this was all over after he had testified in Allen was put away, of course Alan daughters. I believe then on the building's so of course Bob lost his his free apartment and his his supers position

1 (25m 47s):
and it was almost like he kind of deflated like, you know, nobody had to talk to him anymore.

2 (25m 53s):
So he would walk around it was almost pathetic. He'd walk up, you know down the block and say hi and people would You know just kind of go by, you know, not to him and go by and then after a short time after this, he just wasn't around anymore. He was gone and that and I've no idea where he went to. Where is he? Anyway, did you find out anyway, he's an elevator inspector in New York City God. We're all in trouble now. I found Alan also at his website Alan Stern dotnet.

2 (26m 37s):
He's been appealing his conviction for over 15 years. He makes the case that he's innocent his argument is that the entire story of Sammy feet and crazy Joe and the explanation of the brother-in-law's murder and all the rest of it is hearsay a grandiose fiction. In other words. Allen is saying he can't Plus all the he's the victim of the most outlandish Bob Story Ever Told. Jacket, he now lives in New Haven and a house where he is his own Super.

1 (27m 12s):
He's also the co-host of the Peabody award-winning podcast uncivil.

2 (27m 16s):
If you haven't heard it seriously, give it a try. He's currently developing a new podcast. It's been many years since we first reported this story

1 (27m 23s):
in 2014. Alan stern was released from prison Bob as far as we can tell is no longer an elevator inspector for the City of New York. John Moscow is now practicing criminal law in Manhattan coming up a super get to crush. That's in a minute. I'm Chicago public radio when our program continues.

Capital One (27m 43s):
Support for This American Life comes from the new Capital One Walmart Rewards Card. Earn 5% back at Walmart online games for the kids headphones for Dad a laptop for Mom. Doesn't matter you get 5% back at Walmart online. You'll also earn 2% at Walmart in store at restaurants and on travel and 1% everywhere else when you want all that you need the Capital One Walmart Rewards Card what's in your wallet terms and exclusions apply? Capital One en a

1 (28m 15s):
and from business schooled a podcast by synchrony for its second season business school Diz finding out why startups in America are succeeding at the highest rates in 30 years. They're not just surviving. They're thriving leaping past those Rocky early stages and into an entirely new phase of growth new host and start up with Soraya Darby travels all over the country meeting with eight businesses to uncover. What's helping them Go the Distance new season new host new things to learn on season 2 of business schooled a podcast by synchrony. Listen And subscribe to business cooled season to wherever you get your podcasts this american guy from Ira Glass each week a new program.

1 (28m 55s):
We choose a theme bring you a variety of different kinds of stories on that theme Today Show the super we have arrived at Act 2 of our show back to Super Duper. We now move them a story about an East Coast super to a story about a West Coast super from Alex blumberg. Josh lives in a Spanish Courtyard building in Los Angeles a city in which even apartment buildings act like they're on TV this little bit like Melrose Place lot of kind of communal activity and sort of presiding above it is the super it's not really a super like you would have in maybe a larger building or a larger City. It's he's a larger set of these La. All right.

1 (29m 36s):
All right, I guess like well I can I'm not like a dense urban city is what I meant to say, but He doesn't have like a tool belt and show up and fix things but he'll sort of call the guy who does that and he takes the rent and and he is kind of a solitary guy for the most part. He's sort of like to spend a lot of time reading and stuff. So he just kind of like hangs out up there in the building Josh and the rest of the tenants in the building like they're super who will call Dave hung out with him at the time of the story. Dave was going through chemotherapy for leukemia, and occasionally, he'd called different residents to ask for help with things. That one Christmas. He contacted Josh he calls and he says, you know, this really weird thing happened and I came over to his apartment.

1 (30m 26s):
He had this Orchid that was sitting on the table next to him. And he said well I had this I had this visitor and it was a very strange visit and he started to tell me that A couple months ago in between in between chemotherapy treatments. He'd had to chemotherapy treatments and so he was out somewhere and he was in his Land Cruiser. I think he has and he was at this gas station and he sees this woman pulls up in a big black Escalade and she's on the opposite side of the pumps is him. She was an older woman, but he said very elegant and attractive in the elegant older woman way and she had fancy clothes and like And I think she mentioned that she had espadrilles on and so and she was and she was in this black Escalade.

1 (31m 22s):
So she would seem to be you know, classy or something or well-off and so they're standing there at the pumps and they start chatting she initiates conversation with him and they're getting on very well and then told me that she said something about him being bald which was from the chemotherapy and she said are you bald from the chemotherapy? P or are you just bald because you think it's sexy something like that and he he was not offended by that he thought it was it was kind of like this romantic repartee or something and and then she gives him a card and the card was sort of like an old-style Carte de visite that just had her name.

1 (32m 9s):
It wasn't a business card that had a company or information on it was just sort of Like a calling card that you used to, you know, leave at the door of you know, count vronsky's estate when you would stop by or something. And so he remembered thinking that that was kind of a classy touch and Andrea is a very mysterious and so then he gave her his information and they parted ways until Christmas two months after their first meeting at the gas. Ian when the mysterious lady called out of the blue she'd asked how Dave was and he told her about his recent health problems and infection from the chemotherapy had turned serious and it's been a couple of weeks in a hospital and in your coma that's terrible.

1 (32m 56s):
The lady said, is there anything I can do? Can I come by and visit Dave said yes, and so she'd arrived that morning dressed in the same elegant manner as at the gas station bearing the Orchid which Dave now had an astable and they sat in chat it somehow the topic of Fate came up and That was the point when she said I know this is kind of weird time. But you know, I actually have something I wanted to share with you and you know, he says what's that and she says that she was abroad with this group of investors who had developed this really interesting investment opportunity and you know, she says I know that this is a weird time.

1 (33m 44s):
This is very exciting. So I feel like I should just let you in on this investment opportunity right now. He was you know a little surprised and you know, but he said oh, all right. What so you know what's the investment opportunity and and she said well I've gotten involved with this very canny group of investors and it seems that they have located this snowman that can benchpress 400 pounds.

1 (34m 28s):
Yeah, so so I said so then I'm asking okay with well. What do you mean like a what kind of a snowman it's hard to exactly figure out what the proper follow-up question is. Because that is so that said well, okay what it's so like it's the abominable snowman. He's like no no. No, she said it's a totally normal snowman like with it carrot nose and the coal for the eyes and a top hat everything. It's just that this snowman can benchpress 400 pounds and so then about it, so I'm saying well, okay, but what?

1 (35m 15s):
What's the what's the investment opportunity? Like is he running a hedge funds or what? I mean, I don't understand and then he said no see what happened is the investors. They've got it all worked out. They are going to put together a variety show with the Snowman as the lead act and then they're going to take the Snowman show on tour. And so the investment opportunity is like the geographic territorial rights to the show. So like it when the show goes to different states you you get to reap the rewards, you know, if you've bought into the to the rights to the show, so like so the woman said that she had already she got in on the ground floor, you know with this thing she and so she got California and like Nevada like the West so he said that the United States was all snap.

1 (36m 12s):
A so but now Indonesia is wide open and so forth for the variety show starring the weightlifting Snowman the weightlifting snowman, right? Okay. Yeah. So the price for Indonesia's territorial rights to the to the show to the Snowman show were not cheap. It was like $30,000 or something. Okay. So so what I don't understand though is like if you actually did. Discovered a snowman that had somehow become animated. It seems like the last sort of thing that you would do is then like just not a variety show.

1 (36m 53s):
I know what right I was what I was asking my said we'll listen. Wait. Hold on a second isn't there going to be there would be a lot more important things happening than like publicity for your variety show, press like the whole world is Gonna Change like science will have to readjust everything that ever known, you know, like like all the various steel oceans of the world are gonna have to like deal with like the new stuff like animated snowman world. I did have to really sort a lot of things out. Just even the basic question of like well, how did the Snowman roll himself up in three balls and find a carrot nose. And like how did the investors find the Snowman that's the other thing that I was like crazy Valley where they driving around the woods and they just saw this snowman lifting logs and they high-fived each other and said, alright, we've got a variety show, you know, like they're in a like in a caravan of black Suburbans with their cigar.

1 (37m 47s):
Cars like we did it. The weird thing was even though Dave found the story of a weightlifting snowman just as Preposterous as Josh. Did he seem somehow persuaded by this mysterious woman. He said it was hard to explain but he felt like he'd known her his entire life and he looked at life differently now. Anyway, you know, he said something about how after you know, when you get cancer or something like that a serious illness you just start to re-evaluate things, you know, you would might have seemed risky beforehand isn't now and so he said, you know, I kind of just felt like, you know, maybe there was a reason to take a risk, like maybe there's a reason I met the woman of the Shell station and maybe this is a kind of a risk to take and then that's basically when he said so, you know, I wrote her a check for $30,000.

1 (38m 40s):
Oh my God. What did you think? I was alarmed and I was worried that it was a con and you know, obviously right, you know, but I kind of actually was a little bit convinced by his whole Theory, you know, I was thinking like maybe maybe it's not so bad, you know right thinking again. It's sort of his money and right, you know, if that's how he's going to you know, sort of Embrace Life After cancer then you know, who am I to say right? So I kind of felt like I had to accept that over the next Year Josh told the weightlifting snowman story to everybody he could he loved it and as audiences seem to love it too at one point he decided with Dave's consent to write it up for a magazine humor section the final step in publishing it was to have it fact-checked.

1 (39m 33s):
And so the magazine called Dave he called me and said so the Magazine's fact-checkers called and I told them what I had what I meant about to tell you, which is that I actually made that whole story up. And

2 (39m 53s):
that was no lady with the

1 (39m 54s):
card card to visit or espadrilles or fers or the Snowman. Did you ask him why he just thought that it would be a story that would amuse me and he was absolutely correct. I guess had no idea how successfully that story was going to appeal to me. And so I mean I kind of bought it, you know, I mean I the idea of like you live to be, you know in your Middle Ages and you kind of never took any risks and then things get totally the perspective refocuses in such a way that weightlifting snowman makes as much sense as anything else. I kind of like it you kind of like it that that he created a world in which it made sense to spend $30,000 in a waiting on the way.

1 (40m 34s):
I think some yeah. Yeah, huh and a weird since you were the con. Yeah. That was I mean that was it was like a double reverse reveal like at the end of some movie where like I would have been writing some check for like a million dollars at the end, right? Because somehow I got sucked into the whole thing, but I can't do it you wanted it so bad. I think part of what I love about it. And maybe you do too is just sort of the image that like they're of the snowman like this like stick armed carrot nose snowman actually just like lying on a on a on a weight bench in the middle of the Siberian would well also bench pressing in particular is like you requires a bench.

1 (41m 16s):
So like I still don't understand

2 (41m 19s):
like You know if they let's say

1 (41m 22s):
they found the snowman in the woods then did he have his own bench was it made out of snow? You know, I'd just you know, he wasn't doing squats.

2 (41m 33s):
Alex blumberg talking with Josh Behrman these days Alex runs the podcasting company gimlet media the home of reply all and heavyweight in the nod and many other shows

1 (41m 42s):
Josh has been a regular contributor to our show

2 (41m 44s):
and these days he's producer in the new Apple TV series Little America, which comes out next month can Hunter who was the Super who made up that story about the Snowman and who had a real talent for telling a rageous and ridiculous stories. There's no easy way to say this. He died a few years ago.

1 (42m 8s):
X-ray Please Release Me that's release me. We change the names of the people in the story to protect the tenants involved. Sometimes somebody tells you your future and you do not want to believe it. You can't believe it when Dennis was 21. He became the super over this apartment building that his dad owned a big hundred unit building and what was once a rough neighborhood and his dad gave him this morning. Father to son super super about the tenants they will make a good person bad like, you know, maybe you go into like the landlording business and your you have good intentions and you're a good person but people, you know, the lies they tell you the tricks they play on you the damage they do to your property.

1 (42m 54s):
You will eventually lose that innocence and become a meaner person. I was like, wow, you know like That kind of sucks. I hope that never happens to me and so is your D be a different kind of super than his dad. Anyway, his dad have been a plumber. Nothing made him happier than fixing the plumbing in the washing machines in the building his dad had some old-world ways of doing things if somebody is causing trouble selling drugs are making a Ruckus he pounded on doors and get in their face and they had to neighborhood was slowly improving when he first bought the building people didn't care what the least said or didn't say He had to deal with a lot of things man to man.

1 (43m 34s):
Dennis me while I was just out of college his dad scrimped and sacrificed to put it through Catholic schools all the way from elementary up through his undergraduate degree his mom. It's parents split up his mom had always been a devout Catholic communion every day and all that stuff that the Jesuits taught Dennis in school about being a good person. He took it to heart, you know, one of the things that go into like the Jesuit university is like, you know, they want you to be men and women for others. You know, not that everything I did I tried to you know live up to that high standard because I know I couldn't but you know, that was definitely the back of my head which brings us to our story at first super job went great people like Dennis. I got Christmas cards and families in the building, but there was this one couple that live in the building for almost 20 years since back when his dad first bought the place there were long term tenants.

1 (44m 25s):
They are good tenants. They were nice people, you know in the beginning those wasn't too Much bad, you could say about him

2 (44m 31s):
and your dad like

1 (44m 33s):
yeah, my dad lights on here. He lived below them actually. So he liked them literally live right below them

2 (44m 39s):
in my freshman year of high school. I live with my father at that.

1 (44m 42s):
So I live below him to every year and so I saw them and they knew who I was, you know, I mean, even before that being for high school, you know, we were little kids would be running around playing in the courtyard hanging from the trees. But yeah, I mean, you know, they were they were regular fixture.

2 (44m 58s):
But everything

1 (44m 58s):
for this couple changed when their daughter died the woman quit her job to go to school with your all of their savings into that, but you had trouble with the classes could make the grade and things just kept going downhill from there. She started drinking they got behind on the event, you know, she drop off a check to me and then, you know a day later or two days later, she'd call me and say hey did you deposit that check yet? And I was like, no we haven't passed yet. Well, could you tell Up that check and let me I'll give you another check, you know, like forget about that check and so then you know, we turn of that check and she bring down another check and then the thing that check would bounce and you know, I think they got to like maybe like four thousand dollars in the hole.

1 (45m 39s):
Oh wow. So they were they were behind like $4,000 in like six months six months. Yeah their behalf. You're behind ya. Wow. Yeah, you know, I was like I was like, you know, Dad we gotta kick these people out, you know, I got to get rid of them. And you know, my dad was very reluctant to do that. He

2 (45m 55s):
Like work with them work it out working with them. You know now why like, well, he knew that her husband had a good job and

1 (46m 3s):
he knew that you know that they had money coming in and that you know that you could get money out of them. Basically. I was like, I didn't realize that yes, it becomes test of you the problem wasn't them because they've got the money. Yeah. The problem is you yeah, give me a sign. Yeah, so it's like you know, how good are you? Hey, Dennis. Wanted to do right by his dad. He wanted to do a good job. Remember, he had never had a job before you still living with his mom and how he was in charge of his dad's business when it came to this couple.

1 (46m 44s):
He was just flailing around. It wasn't exactly sure how to get money out of them. But he decided he was going to do it and he remembered his Jesuit teachers, you know, I thought to myself I'm like, you know, it wasn't my job to you know, to ease these people through this or get them through it, but I know that if I was in that situation if I was down on my luck that I would want somebody to cut me that break or cut me that slack so he sat down and he created a payment plan for them if you hundred bucks every paycheck but was incredibly hard to make them stick to it. They had excuses they couldn't do it so he sat them down again. We have an agreement and this time they put it in writing and then after month upon month of struggle took over a year.

1 (47m 25s):
They finally paid it all back, you know, then things were okay for a while, but slowly, but surely. Started falling back into their own ways. And basically what I think it was was like the alcohol

2 (47m 39s):
basically

1 (47m 48s):
I remember vividly like that. She would come down to the laundry room. The laundry room was just outside the office and she would go to the vending machine and by cantopop after cantopop after can't pop now. It's thought that was so weird. I was like, why is she buying like eight cans of Sprite or Coke when we're right next door to Walgreens and she can just go buy a 12-pack and I What it was was she was, you know, just, you know getting coax to make drinks with up in her apartment. I just remembered that being so weird.

2 (48m 31s):
To Dennis watch them worried worried a lot

1 (48m 34s):
anybody who knew Dennis that time will tell

2 (48m 36s):
you it was all he talked about

1 (48m 38s):
you go out with his friends and this is what would be on his mind. What should he do? Was he being a sucker what was going on with this couple? It was a kind of worrying that you might expect from a family member or something. Of course, he was just the super the property manager. And things got worse one point another tenant found the wife passed out in the hallway of the building lying there. Like she was dead covered in vomit then it's round to her side and I was like, you know, oh my God, you know what's wrong or what have you and you know, she's just like she can't talk to me. She can't put a sentence together. She's slurring her words. And so I was like, you know, what do I do? You know, I'm like do I take you to the hospital to call maybe on seeing like, what do I do?

1 (49m 21s):
And you know, anyway, she's like I just need to go to bed. You know and so like she was too drunk to basically open her door. So got her into bed and you know, she's in bed and she's laying on her back and I'm like, you know, like I've heard stories like this is how Jimi Hendrix died or something like that, you know, and I'm like she what if she pukes again is she gonna choke on her puke, you know, finally get a hold of her husband and he's like, all right, I'll take care of I'll take care of it, but he's at work and who knows when he's going to get home to take care of this and like, you know, I'm down the office. I'm trying to do work and so like I went back up and checked on her a couple times and she Sleeping and you know, she's breathing and so then I go back down and I can't get any work done because that's like you know, like cat is this lady dies, you know, like, you know, I never gonna forgive myself, you know, I just remember that being like a really terrifying experience.

1 (50m 8s):
It's so weird because part of it is like have this business relationship with these people but you're there in there in there building like you're there in their house like you own their house. Yeah, you know, yeah and said so personal. Yeah. Well, you definitely can't avoid it. So it's you know, you've lived side by side with them, you know, it becomes more of a neighbor to neighbor relationship. ation, shh And they showed him $50,000 a year, which totally got under his skin.

1 (51m 11s):
I was like, you know, what? Why can't they pay me and I started basically putting pen to paper and running some numbers and I say the lady I'm like look come down to the office bring your bills and we'll do a budget and I'll show you that you can afford to pay your

2 (51m 27s):
rent

1 (51m 32s):
and after we literally like Like picked every little nitpicky thing there could be money that they could spend money on like kitty litter, you know laundry transportation to and from work for her husband. We had like three thousand dollars left over and I was like look you can afford this apartment. So that helped did they end up paying the rent on time for the few months after that? No, it didn't help. Wow. That's quite a lesson. Yeah there. Yeah. Yeah, it ended up getting really frustrated and the end. I was losing my Patients asking really really mad, you know, she started running out of excuses and she's like, well, you know, my husband borrowed money from people at work and you know, he's got to pay them back and and you know that made me really mad.

1 (52m 15s):
I was like I was like look, you know what you guys been taken advantage of me. You've been playing me like a fiddle and that's it. I'm not taking a back seat anymore. You guys get caught up you start paying on time or I'm going to kick you out. And so I was in July and August telling them like look, I don't care if it's Christmas. I don't care if it's Thanksgiving. I don't care if it's hot as I'm gonna kick you out. Can I ask? Like what? Is it going to be a really naive question. If you have a hundred unit building like in reality how important is it that you get the rent on one unit. Well, I guess I'm in the grand scheme of things. It's not going to make you or break you but you know, I mean, that's the deal, you know, if you can't afford it then I told him look if you can't afford it move to a smaller apartment.

1 (53m 1s):
I'll give you a smaller apartment, but they didn't want to move they did not want to move. By the time Dennis was drawing up a budget for this couple. He'd been at it on and off for six years with them and his feelings with vacillate all over the place. But his dad the very man who told him how running a building hardens you his dad never wavered in his support of the couple. My dad. I would have battles like, you know, we should kick him out. We should kick him out. You know, my dad be like no, I don't want to kick him out, you know, and I'd be like look, there's people are way behind it. Right? You gotta kick them out. Dad. Just get rid of these people, you know, and you know, and we talked and he, you know reminisce about the story.

1 (53m 41s):
And you know, one of the stories he tells me is that you know, he went to the wake for the child who passed away and he said to think it was like the sister of the lady's husband. He's like, you know, I used to hear the baby crying all night long just crying and crying and crying and the gentleman sisters like well, you're not going to have to hear the baby crying anymore. She turned around and walked away from I was you took a completely wrong. Yeah, my dad didn't mean it like that kid was keeping me awake all night. Thank God, you know I can sleep. You know, he's had kids of his own and so, you know, he might know what it's you know, what it's like to see your kid in pain.

1 (54m 29s):
So I that for him was very I think and just an emotional bond where it was like, you know, these people just been through too much like I can't kick him out. In the end he decided to sit down one more time and have a heart-to-heart talk with a couple he told me he knew that they were good people. They just had a problem and they needed help he would wait for the money. They owed if the woman would just get help and go to rehab, you know, if you do this will repaint your apartment. You tell me what colors you want and when you come back from rehab and we'll have this done for you like she wanted her kitchen.

1 (55m 12s):
You'd like yellow or something like that. And and so she went to rehab and I have like a letter from her from August. Okay. Once you re w Is Right Here younger says, well, I'm incarcerated in writing you from cellblock C. You have no idea how touched I was by our talk your caring and generosity. The group here is very nice as is the facility. I'm imagining what our apartment will look like upon my return. I'm so excited. I feel part of Family, you are in my prayers, which reminds me get your ass to church and make your my happy and when you got this letter, did you feel good?

1 (55m 52s):
Yeah, I felt really good. I was like, this is great. You know, she's in there. She's getting help but then you know, I don't know what it was a day or two or three later. I'm walking down the courtyard and who do I see coming towards me but her And like this was supposed to be like a two week or a month long stay. I was like what you know what I can't believe it. Why and so that was that was you know, the beginning of the end shortly after that is when I filed the court papers for eviction. It was just it was devastating. It was like you have to stand in front of the judge looking at this person who you know, you know, I ran up and down the courtyard and maybe they threw the ball to me when I was like eight years old, you know, and now I'm sitting here in front of the judge telling them your honor, you know, please remove these people forcibly from the building.

1 (56m 50s):
You know, I'm like that's what it comes down to I have to do what I have to do to win this case, you know, I was mad. I wanted them out and deep like this changed you. Definitely definitely changed me. Now, you know, I don't like to get personally involved with tenants. Like it's just too hard, you know one time these two guys moved into a two-bedroom apartment and they're like, oh you guys are great ones. Come on have a beer with us. You know, I was like, you know what I got something to do tonight. I'm sorry know maybe some other time though. I would really love to get a beer with you, but I had no intentions of ever going out for a beer with them.

1 (57m 34s):
I would just make up an excuse or avoided at all cost because you know, you can't be their friends. What I try and do now is I try to never have to have to kick somebody out. And the way I do that is by screening and screening and screening but that's the thing. I find interesting about this. Like I never thought about that as like that has anything to do with your feelings. It goes beyond like the business stuff that you're checking out all the credentials and all that sort of stuff you're saying is actually like it's too emotional like yeah, it really is. I mean, for example, I do remember like somebody coming in and you know applying for Apartment and they're like look my credits all messed up, you know going through divorce and you know, I don't know if you know my wife messed up my credit, you know, and I was like I don't care, you know, maybe that's the truth.

1 (58m 26s):
Maybe that guy would have been a fine tenant, you know, maybe he would have paid his rent on time, but I just can't take that chance anymore. What would you Jesuit teacher say about that? Um I don't know. Maybe they would be disappointed at and do you care? Know if they're mad about it. I would say well the next person who rented that apartment father. I did try to

2 (58m 58s):
treat them justly and fairly and ethically Well, I'm a working on a building. It's a true foundation shovel. I'm holding up the blood-stained Vienna for my Lord where bedroom is produced today by Alex blumberg

1 (59m 23s):
myself with Diane cook Jamboree Sarah Koenig Lisa Pollock, Nancy Updike. Our

2 (59m 26s):
senior producer for today's show is Julie Snyder additional production of the

1 (59m 30s):
rear end of today's show from Jessica. Lessin, hop Catherine. Raimondo Stone Nelson and Matt. Tyranny Peter roach super thought you heard at the very beginning of the show. He retired a few years

2 (59m 38s):
ago. He now performs in quote. Every Nursing Home in northeast, Pennsylvania under the name the singing Super our website this American life.org This American Life is live in public radio stations by PRX the public radio exchange. Thanks as always to our programs co-founder. Mr. Tory

1 (59m 56s):
meltia who has this message for any This American Life employee. There's

2 (1h 0m 0s):
listening to the radio right now. Don't try to steal one of the light bulbs in the hallway. I know what you're thinking but I've booby-trapped them America has

1 (1h 0m 8s):
back next week

2 (1h 0m 9s):
with more stories and this is American

1 (1h 0m 11s):
Life