0 (0s):
At Veil, it's the season to celebrate 60 years of powder, days. Opre escapes ice bars and back bowls. Because no matter how many times you've skied these iconic slopes, this year feels like a fresh experience. So here's a toast to champagne bells. Joy rides a brand new chairlift. And your next visit to a place that's like nothing on earth. Visit veil.com.

1 (28s):
Fifth grade, it was so long ago. Who can remember that? Far back? Two whole years.

2 (35s):
I remember all of like the old things, like we used to read the Vicari Potter and we made curtains,

1 (42s):
Harry Potter curtains

2 (44s):
And like they have like new curtains now. And I, I look back at them and I'm like, I look at them and I'm like, wow, you know, it's changed and like, I wish it was still there somehow.

1 (57s):
This is Kale Hernandez in seventh grade at the Pasky School in Chicago. She actually visits her fifth grade classroom, room two 11 and her fifth grade teacher, Mrs. Chan. Fairly often. And Reminisce is about the past.

2 (1m 11s):
Recently I went through the shelves and like the, like our books are still there. Like our America.

1 (1m 17s):
You're talking about the book Our America,

2 (1m 19s):
Yeah. You know, reminiscing about like when we used to read that book and how it, like it showed lots of racism

1 (1m 29s):
Back in fifth grade, she covered her copy of our America with one of those paper book covers. You get, it was her copy though. They're not allowed to write their name in the fronts of books at her school.

2 (1m 39s):
They had numbers and my number I think was like 30.

1 (1m 43s):
So you did find book number 30?

2 (1m 45s):
Yeah, I did. I saw the book and it was just there without his paperback cover and you know, everything that was mine is not mine anymore. I think like that's the hardest thing from switching to another grade into another classroom, into another teacher. And there's new environments and new different things to learn and well, old memories to leave behind

1 (2m 10s):
20 years from now, 30 years from now. When you try to remember back to seventh grade, what do you think you're gonna remember from this year?

2 (2m 18s):
I think I remember barely anything.

1 (2m 23s):
Isn't that kind of strange though, to think that you're going through all these experiences now that somehow are gonna get wiped off the blackboard?

2 (2m 29s):
Yeah, but I even have that experience now. Like I can't remember things from like second grade. I, I see like some things like, I remember this kid, he wrote this Valentine card for me. It's like you're pretty as a rose. I know something like that, but like, I can't remember teachers really well, like I used to.

1 (2m 49s):
Do you feel sad about that or is that okay?

2 (2m 51s):
I feel sad about that because you know it, it's a part of me. It's like you don't even remember what's happened. It's kind of hard because it's, it was, it's been a part of you.

1 (3m 5s):
When I ask Kago which of her friends she wouldn't remember at all someday. It wasn't hard for her to answer.

2 (3m 10s):
Cynthia, I'll probably forget Ali. I'll probably forget Diana and Maria. I'll forget Erica sod. I'll forget a whole bunch of people.

1 (3m 24s):
She's not close to this kids or anything, but as she said their names, it was like watching them vaporize or something. Someday they'll just be gone. Erased from the history of her life, like they had never been there in the first place. We forget most of everything and then sometimes we go back and try to remember and there really is no predicting which people and places and moments we're gonna be able to get back. Diana and Maria, they could still make the cut From wbz Chicago. Is this American Life Amira Glass. Today on our program, return to Childhood, what you find and what you do not find when you go back. Our show today in four Acts Act one mop head.

1 (4m 7s):
In that act, a 34 year old man investigates who he was at nine years old and learns a thing or two. He would just as soon not remember Act two punk in a grave flannel suit in which a mortgage broker discovers that the punk band he was in in the seventies is hot in Japan and decides to leave corporate life for a little bit and go back on tour Act three, Ariel Sharon Shum per David Benor and me an American teenager who dreams of someday being the prime minister of a nation where he does not even reside. Act four when we were angels in which we hear the purest possible student uprising imaginable. The most innocent, documented by an actual student using the crudes tools, a telephone answering machine and a shiny red boom box.

1 (4m 55s):
Stay with us,

3 (5m 0s):
Huh?

1 (5m 5s):
One Mophead. Alex Bloomberg was a producer on our program for many years and back when he was working here, today's show is a rerun. He made a decision to return to his childhood. He went searching for somebody named Susan Jordan, who he and his sister Kate and their parents knew for about a year when Alex was growing up in Cincinnati.

4 (5m 25s):
These are the things that I remember about Susan Jordan. Me and her sitting in the back room and telling her about the day camp I went to that summer. I can't get myself to shut up. And they had alligators and snakes. I can hear myself telling her. And this one time, this one alligator got out and the counselor had to catch it and on and on like that. Me and Susan flipping through one of those time life books, rock and roll through the decades, the sixties, she has long brown hair. She's incredibly skinny. It's 1975, she's wearing bell bottom Levi's, a faded jean jacket. She points to a picture of a bloated man in a powder blue rhinestone jumpsuit sitting cross-legged on a stage before a crowd of crying women.

4 (6m 6s):
That's my favorite picture of Elvis. She says, this information seems somehow personal and important. Me and Susan riding in her car, I'm going through this phase where I'm trying to notice things. So when we pull up to a stoplight, I start trying to notice the guy on the motorcycle next to us. He apparently doesn't want to be noticed, especially by a peculiar nine year old staring at him through the passenger window. What are you looking at? He snes. I turn around fast and face the dashboard. Did he say something to you? Susan asks. What did he say to you? Nothing. He didn't say anything. It's fine. Look, green light. Tell me what he said. What did he say to you? I stay silent.

4 (6m 47s):
I know if I tell her what he said, she'll get out of the car and try to kick his ass, which scares me. But comforts me too. Susan Jordan was our babysitter. She watched my sister and me every day after school for a couple hours until our parents got home from work. We didn't know any adults like her and we loved her. The summer before I started fifth grade, after being with us for a year, Susan got another job. The last time I saw her was Christmas Eve, 1982. I'm 16. A cashier at Thriftway Foods Supermarket in Cincinnati where I lived.

4 (7m 30s):
The place is packed. All 25 registers are going, people are lined up halfway to the back of the store. I look up and there's Susan Jordan. She smiles, we talk. She doesn't have many items, so I check them through as slowly as I possibly can. I can't recall one thing we say to each other. Although I remember being distinctly disappointed to hear that she's married. She hands me some kind of business card. Her husband's probably something having to do with the building of redwood decks. She seems happy. Meanwhile, there's a line of last minute Christmas shoppers mounting behind her. I tell her to, hold on, I'll try to get my break. We can catch up. She says, great. And steps aside, I keep signaling to my manager, but there's no one to relieve me.

4 (8m 13s):
5, 10, 15 minutes pass. I keep glancing behind at Susan making apologetic gestures. I can still remember her standing there holding her one bag of groceries, smiling back at me. Finally, she taps me on the shoulder. I have to go, she says, but I come in here all the time. I'm sure I'll see you around. I worked at Thriftway for two more years. I never saw Susan Jordan again. It drives me crazy that I never saw her again. If I hadn't run into her at the store, I don't think I'd care. But somehow having her play with to me seemed like a huge role in my life when I was a kid. And then getting just a taste of what it would be like to talk with her as a peer.

4 (8m 55s):
Peer. I've never forgotten that moment. I know it's ridiculous. But after years of thinking about her, imagining what she's up to, wondering if she ever thinks about me, I decide to find her. I start with my only lead, the one former employer of hers that I know. Hi mom.

6 (9m 23s):
Hi Alex.

4 (9m 25s):
Do you wanna know I'm calling.

6 (9m 26s):
I do. I do

4 (9m 29s):
You remember Susan Jordan, right?

6 (9m 32s):
Susan Jordan working Susan Jordan. Yes. It's ringing a bell, but I can't place it.

4 (9m 44s):
She was our babysitter.

6 (9m 46s):
Oh, okay. Chicken legs and moped.

4 (9m 49s):
One of the many ideas that Susan introduced to our household was the concept of the nickname. I think that's all I wanna say about chicken legs and moped. I'd gone to my mother to fill in gaps in my memory of Susan, but she didn't remember much more than I did.

6 (10m 3s):
She was a babysitter that really had more of a relationship with you two than she did with us. She seemed to have a very meaningful relationship with you, almost the kind of relationship that you might have with another adult. That was about the extent of it. And she never stayed around. When I came home, she was out of there.

4 (10m 38s):
What talking to my mom did do was make me look at my childhood memories from an adult perspective. Like for example, what I remembered about her living situation.

6 (10m 47s):
I didn't get the impression that she was close to her family. I got the impression that she was very much out on her own, very early young. I think she must have been in the process of breaking with her own parents during that time.

4 (11m 5s):
That's that's, yeah. See that's my memory. Is that you know of, of like she was in high school, right? She went to Woodsville. Yeah, But, but I also remember her living on her for some reason. I remember her own house. Yeah. And the reason I thought that she lived by herself was we went to, we went to some, we went to her house or her boy, we had to go pick something up somewhere. And we were in her car, this big blue duster I think it was. And her boyfriend was there and her and her boyfriend had let the cats out and they were, they were gone and she was furious and, and I got in the car and then she like slammed the door and I think we peeled out. And he was sort of standing, you know, he was, he was sort of standing there and saying, you know, trying to, trying to reason with her.

4 (11m 49s):
And we were out

6 (11m 50s):
There. Well, what did you,

4 (11m 54s):
It made me, I think I felt sad for her. I remember thinking, and this is sort of in retrospect, but I think I had some sort of inkling of this idea at the time. I'm just, I'm just sort of now realizing of it. But I think I remember thinking that he was one of the few people that she had in her life and she couldn't even really depend on him. Yeah,

6 (12m 10s):
That you were probably right. She was, she was a struggle. And you, you may have been at that point, at that moment, her only friend, you know,

4 (12m 33s):
My mom didn't have any idea where I could find Susan, which made things difficult because a, Susan Jordan is a very common name, and b, it's probably not her name anymore. I called the county court records department to find all the Susan Jordan's married in Cincinnati. My mom asked a friend who worked for the city to search all the Cincinnati birth records. I contacted high school alumni associations. I asked friends at high powered newspapers to run background checks. Finally, there was one former Susan Jordan who stood out. She seemed the right age. She was married, living in a Cincinnati suburb. She had a couple kids, her husband was a lawyer. I got her number from information. And it wasn't until I sat sat down to call her that, it hit me a phone call from someone you babysat 20 years ago might not be a welcome surprise, but in fact strange and creepy.

4 (13m 21s):
Here I am practicing sounding benign. 1, 2, 1 2. Susan. Is this Susan Jordan? Is this Susan Jordan? Oh God. Oh god. Finally I made the call.

6 (13m 40s):
Hello?

4 (13m 41s):
Hello. Hi, is this Susan? Yeah. Hi, my name's Alex Bloomberg and I'm calling from, from a radio program called This American Life. And this is a probably a very strange phone call to receive. But I was wondering, first of all, do you, do you remember me?

6 (14m 1s):
No.

4 (14m 3s):
It turns out there are a lot of Susan Jordans who don't remember me a lot. One guy even called his ex-wife, a former Susan Jordan, and then called me back to tell me she'd never heard of me. I was getting nowhere by myself. So I contacted a professional one, Irving Botwin, a certified New York City private investigator. Three days after putting him on the case, I got a message saying he'd found her. I called him back,

7 (14m 28s):
I called her this morning early, roughly around seven 30. I said, good morning, I'd like to introduce myself. I said, my name is so and so, and I'm a licensed private investigator in New York and I'm looking for someone that used to live in Cincinnati and went to a particular school there. And her name at the time was Susan Jordan. And she said, that's me. And I said, okay. And I said, I do you know anybody named Alex Bloomberg? And right away she, you know, I babysat. And the interesting part about the whole thing is she definitely likes you, remembers you.

7 (15m 8s):
And she's gonna call you.

4 (15m 18s):
Hello? Is this Susan? Yeah, this is Alex Bloomberg.

6 (15m 22s):
Hi Alex. How

4 (15m 23s):
You doing? I'm doing okay. How are you? Fine.

6 (15m 25s):
Did you get my email?

4 (15m 26s):
I got your email. Yeah. Okay. And I called you at work and then I realized that I'd also gotten this number from the, from the private investigator. Susan and I talked for over three hours on the phone, catching up, comparing notes. She asked about my sister and kids that used to live on the street and our old family dog. Are you doing? I'm doing okay. It was amazing how much she remembered and how much we remembered in common. Even small incidents, like the time that we were stopped at the traffic light. And I stared too long at the guy on the motorcycle.

6 (15m 54s):
I think I remember that. Was it on Erie Avenue?

4 (15m 59s):
Probably. Probably. And you said, did he say something to you? And I said, no, he didn't say anything to me. And you said, did he said something to you didn't. And you were about to get out of the car and kick that guy's, I'm sure,

6 (16m 10s):
I think I can remember your face. I think you were sitting very still with your hands in your lap. Were you afraid?

4 (16m 19s):
I was terrified. I mean, yeah, I didn't know that he would notice me. Exactly, but,

6 (16m 25s):
Well, don't worry, I, I would've taken him out. I had no fear. I'm telling you.

4 (16m 40s):
Do you remember a time, you know, we, it was like maybe six or seven or eight years after you babysat us and I was working the grocery

6 (16m 51s):
Store. Yeah, yeah. I remember in Norwood, right?

4 (16m 56s):
In Norwood. Right at the thrift

6 (16m 58s):
Way. Yeah. I remember. I guess you were, you bagging my groceries at the But I didn't recognize you.

4 (17m 5s):
I don't.

6 (17m 6s):
I don't. And then you told me who you were and then I did.

4 (17m 8s):
Right, right. I think you said moped.

6 (17m 13s):
Oh my god, I did warp you. Do people still call you that? No.

4 (17m 26s):
Susan got married when she was still in college and went to work for the phone company as a repair person. She spent the next 20 years or so hanging from a telephone pole. As she said, she hated it. But the money was good. Around the time her first marriage ended, she finally got up the courage to quit and find work using her degree. She now teaches at a special school for mentally ill children. She lives in Florida with her second husband. And she seems happy. Of course, when you dive back into the past like this, you find how partial and incomplete your memory is. First there are the facts. You get wrong. Turns out Susan had been a college freshman when she babysat us. Not in high school. Like I thought my sister remembered she'd ridden a motorcycle also. Not true.

4 (18m 6s):
And the guy who she got in the fight with over the cats, who in my mind was her Harry seventies boyfriend, turned out to be her roommate's boyfriend. But besides the facts you change, they're the facts. You completely omit that fight over the cats. Susan had forgotten totally that I'd been there. And it was a little strange because my presence was the only thing she'd forgotten. Other details she remembered. Fine. Even the names of the cats themselves,

6 (18m 31s):
Tossum and Tom, we were hillbillies remember, but, and, but I can't imagine what I took you over there for.

4 (18m 41s):
I'm sure it was for, you know, I think we were just running errands.

6 (18m 44s):
You're so lucky.

4 (18m 47s):
It's, it's funny because when I, when I like, you know, I remember these very particular incidents and that was one of them. And, and probably the reason I remember it is because it seemed very significant to you. I think I sensed as a kid that, that you were, that it was really upsetting to you because it, it, I think I felt at that time that you didn't really have very many people in your life at that point who you could trust.

6 (19m 13s):
Oh, I didn't have, I didn't have hardly anybody. My whole family moved out of town. I had no family at all. I, let's see, I moved out the day I graduated from high school and I was 17 cuz I started a year early. I had, I just wanted out. See that's, I had found out that I got the scholarship. I packed up that night,

4 (19m 36s):
Why'd you wanna get out

6 (19m 37s):
Bed? Because my family was dysfunctional. But my mo and it was pretty bad. The girl that I lived with at that time, she was taking a lot of drugs and her boyfriend and every time I would come home, they would always try to get me to take drugs with him or something. And I, I really didn't do it much at all. And it was really, it was, it was tough to come home and I, I guess I must have been suffering a little bit.

6 (20m 17s):
I missed, I really missed my little brothers and my little sister and they were gone. You know? And I was, I guess maybe trying to substitute,

4 (20m 30s):
I think maybe that's one of the reasons that I remember that we remember you so fondly though, is because I think it worked both ways. I think that we felt, if that did make you feel closer to us, I think that we, we responded in

6 (20m 41s):
A, well I was desperately, I guess I was looking for a family, really. But I mean it, if only you knew, you probably wouldn't have hired me. But I mean, people are complicated now. What I really wanted to do was spend more time with your mom and dad. But I was terrified. I mean, I, I just couldn't, I couldn't do it. I was too shy. So a lot of times they, it was, I thought they were asking me to stay longer and talk and I would just run out.

4 (21m 9s):
They, I'm sure they were

6 (21m 11s):
And they probably thought what's wrong with her? But I just couldn't do it.

4 (21m 15s):
So you sort of talked to us instead. Sounds like.

6 (21m 18s):
Yes, I was comfortable around kids because, you know, I had kids in my family

4 (21m 32s):
Every time the subject of her hard times came up, I'd hear a subtle hesitancy in Susan's voice. At first I thought it was embarrassment, but that wasn't it. Exactly. It wasn't until we'd been talking for hours that I realized what it was. She was waiting for the other shoe to drop. She hadn't forgotten that her past had happened. She'd just forgotten that I'd witnessed part of it interfere. It became clear. The one that had been gnawing at her, our entire conversation was that I was calling to say she damaged me by exposing me to it.

6 (22m 1s):
I don't think I was too kind back then because there was a lot of turmoil in my life and in my family. And that's what my fear is, that I might have had some kind of negative impact on people. And I know probably I did on a couple people, but they were my age. But you know, you just wanna remember, yeah, I was a babysitter. The kids love me, blah, blah blah. But I would be devastated if I heard anything different.

4 (22m 36s):
There are parts of your past you don't want to go back to and parts of yourself you don't wanna go back to. And for Susan Jordan, the year for life that I remember is the, or she just to soon forget. And it turns out I'd also done my best to forget what I was like that year. I didn't think of myself this way at all. But Susan Jordan reminded me in the gentles terms possible. When I was nine I was anxious and bookish. I was kind of uptight.

6 (23m 0s):
Not to seem as an insult, but I just kept thinking, these kids don't know how to play. When I went to your rooms, I didn't, it didn't seem like you had a whole lot of toys. I hope I've got this right. But it just seems like there were mostly books and more educational things. I mean, I remember you had planets in your room and chemistry sets and I didn't remember that Kate had hardly any dolls. You didn't seem quite as playful as other kids that I had babysat just more serious in general.

6 (23m 41s):
So mainly I think that's what I did was try to play

4 (23m 54s):
Perhaps the most amazing thing about this whole story is how little our memories had deceived us about each other. Even if they had deceived us about ourselves. As Susan said, at one point each of us remembered what we needed to about the other. I needed to remember the part of Susan that she doesn't think about much her toughness in the face of hardship. She said she mostly remembered a side of my family that I just take for granted that it was calm in our house. That there were books. There wasn't much fighting.

6 (24m 21s):
It was the first time in my life where I had ever seen that people lived differently than the way I lived. And that's what I decided I wanted for myself.

4 (24m 36s):
You can try to return to childhood by looking at photos or visiting the old neighborhood or listening to recordings. Or you can find someone who knew you back then, someone you haven't seen since. They still carry within themselves a picture of you that's unclouded by the years in between. They'll remember you better than you remember yourself. And you can do the same thing for them.

3 (25m 2s):
Alex

1 (25m 3s):
Bloomberg, he did that story back when he was a producer here at a show before you go have to start Gimlet Media

8 (25m 25s):
And report, God, I was always afraid to show

1 (25m 33s):
Two punk in a gray flannel suit for a long time. David Phelp was president of a mortgage brokerage firm in Beverly Hills. As you might imagine in Beverly Hills. They handle rather large mortgages. He dresses in beautiful clothes, he's clean cut. But back in the 1970s in England where he grew up, he was in a punk band called The Automatics. There were never really a big commercial success, but they were respected, known in the history of punk by people who care about that kind of thing. And a few years back, there were an odd series of connections. He ended up revisiting his teenage years for the first time by going back on tour in a version of his band in Japan. Here's how something like that happens.

9 (26m 15s):
I mentioned it to a client and, and I said, well, you know, I'd played in in a punk group when I, when I was a kid. And he said, oh really? And he was interested in, and then the next day he sent me a copy of, of an eBay auction and said, is this you? And I sort of, so it was, and I watched this auction and I watched the, the sort of price shoot through the roof, you know, then I began to realize, wait a minute, I'm collectible.

1 (26m 46s):
Let's get down to breast hacks here. How much were you guys?

9 (26m 49s):
I think that one actually went at $48. I, I particularly liked looking at, you know, all those sort of other groups that were going at 25 cents, you know, music business offerings along punk lines that, you know, I thought what a load old nonsense at the time. And it was good to see that, you know, their, their records weren't valued yet. See later. I mean, it was, it was

1 (27m 18s):
Wow that history came out on the right side.

9 (27m 22s):
Yes. That there is a sort of Darwinism in, in in record collecting.

1 (27m 32s):
What happened next?

9 (27m 33s):
I went to go and see Ricky the drummer, and, and Ricky collected everything, you know, and, and he very kindly lent me these two scrapbook. So I took pictures and, and things out of there and I just put it up on a, had a friend put it up on a website. And then I got an email from Fifi in, in Japan saying, you know, I play in Japanese punk rock grant band and Fifi's

1 (27m 58s):
A name of a person. Yes.

9 (27m 60s):
And your record changed my life.

1 (28m 3s):
Wow.

9 (28m 4s):
And he found out through the website that, you know, there was an unreleased album. So he asked, you know, if he could put me in touch with Tosio ima of bass records. We, we struck up a deal and then they said, well, would you come over here and play some gigs to, you know, promote.

1 (28m 32s):
So, so you go Torah, how old are you at that point?

9 (28m 35s):
I'm 45, 45

1 (28m 37s):
Years old. A little bit of gray hair coming in place,

9 (28m 40s):
A little bit of gray hair coming in and, and, and I really wasn't sure whether, you know, I'd still be able to do it because I hadn't played those songs in 22 years. You know, not in my shower, not to anyone. I mean, prior to being married, I mean, I remember dating women for, you know, a year who never knew that I played, had ever played. You

1 (29m 12s):
Know, it wouldn't even come up.

9 (29m 13s):
Wouldn't come up really. I mean, I'd have a guitar hanging around, but you know, lots of other guys did too.

1 (29m 18s):
Would you ever pick up the guitar and play for yourself?

9 (29m 21s):
Yes, I wrote lots of songs for my dog during this period. Really?

1 (29m 26s):
Some of the totals would be,

9 (29m 28s):
We're going to, the park was a big favorite

1 (29m 33s):
To be followed by that hit. Who's a good boy?

9 (29m 35s):
Yeah. Oh, what a good boy is actually it

1 (29m 38s):
Is

9 (29m 39s):
What a what a good boy. So we went over there October the sixth. I took my wife, which possibly was a, was a miscalculation, but no, it was a good thing to take my wife because

1 (30m 0s):
Oh, you, you were approached by dozens of teenage girls.

9 (30m 3s):
I was getting stopped on the street.

1 (30m 6s):
So what happened the first night you went on stage?

9 (30m 9s):
Well there was just, you know, the announcement, the light and sort of a moment silence, which lasted forever. And then sort of out at the back, I heard the opening riff of when the tanks were over Poland and there was just this whole ignition of energy from the club in front and all these kids just started going Madden, it just clicked right in.

9 (31m 0s):
It felt like I was in, in an automatics cover band or something like that because it was so long ago. I didn't feel that association as you know, the writer though. Cause I wrote the material and all that. I didn't have that association as the writer anymore.

1 (31m 13s):
See, but I would wonder if as you sing the songs, the conviction of the rating returns to you and you remember all the feelings of it. Did that happen?

9 (31m 22s):
It was a muscle memory. It was there, you know, you know, the movements are all locked in the lyric and the beat and the, and the parts, you know, and as I played them, they all started to come out and it was just like a sort of like being a marionette or something, you know, here you punch the air, you know, there you sort of bring it, remind the drummer to come down and you know, and here, there you point at the, the guitarist for the solo, you know,

1 (31m 51s):
Had you forgotten the thrill of being on stage?

9 (31m 54s):
Yes, I'd forgotten what it was to, you know, have the audience right there.

1 (32m 7s):
Before this, had you ever performed a punk show sober?

9 (32m 12s):
Never. Well, unless I had, unless I was taking the antibiotics. Not unless I

1 (32m 22s):
So much information made such a brief sentence.

9 (32m 26s):
No, it actually, it was one of the great paradoxes really. I suppose that, that it was great to do at sober.

1 (32m 34s):
Were there moments on stage where, where you felt your age, where you just thought

9 (32m 39s):
Towards the end you really feel yourself, you know it cause it's like a sauna up there. I mean, there's so much energy going around and you know, it's louder than bombs.

1 (32m 57s):
So your wife had never seen you do this before. There must have been a part of you which felt so pleased that she could see it.

9 (33m 4s):
Yes. I, I felt kind of like, you know, I'd become this other person and when I was over there, my life over here seemed to have a sort of almost dreamlike substance. And then of course, as soon as I got back the events in October in Japan just, you know, began to assume that sort of mantle of dream.

9 (33m 45s):
I did three shows, two in, two in Tokyo and one in Kyoto,

1 (33m 50s):
And all three just, just great.

9 (33m 52s):
All three sold out in Kyoto. We set a club record for the largest attendance ever. It was so packed. We couldn't actually get off stage. The only way out was over. I had to sling myself over the audience and they carried me on their hands back through the crowd and gently deposited me at the stage door.

1 (34m 15s):
So this is your last gig? That was your last gig?

9 (34m 18s):
Yes.

1 (34m 20s):
And, and it ended with the entire audience lifting you up and, and passing you bodily out and gently depositing you out, out of the club

9 (34m 29s):
At the, well, not out of the club, but to the stage door. Yes.

1 (34m 33s):
Wow.

9 (34m 33s):
It was amazing.

1 (34m 35s):
I, I don't think I've ever really been lifted by a mob of teenagers and people in their twenties. What, what exactly is that like?

9 (34m 43s):
Well, in Kyoto, I felt pretty good about it. I'm not sure how I would've felt about it in London in 1977 where the scene was incredibly violent. You know, whenever you played you are, you were just as likely to get beaten up as you were to get paid.

1 (35m 3s):
Describe what it was like to come back after the tour.

9 (35m 6s):
It was hard for me to get motivated again, to do my business after the, after the tour.

1 (35m 14s):
It, it just wasn't as thrilling as being on a stage in front of cheering.

9 (35m 18s):
Well, not many things are, and it's a bit like sort of, you know, you know, my dad's generation, you know, after sort of, you know, growing up as a kid, you know, being fired on and in, in, you know, world War II and all that kind stuff. It was kind of hard getting it up for, for, you know, working at the shipping in the shipping industry again. Shortly after I got back, Steve Lilly White was in town

1 (35m 50s):
And that

9 (35m 50s):
Is, he's, he, he, he was the original producer and he was also my roommate at the time that all the automatic stuff was going on and now he's, you know, incredibly successful. He does like you two Dave Matthews and all that stuff, you know, and, and anyway, he was in town. He had some time and, and so we hung out together for a couple of days and Hunter was off. And how your wife? Yes, hunter, my wife. So, you know, we got to hang out and we talked a little about the old days and he told me, you know, big poor from, from specs does catering in, you know, and Nigel from the members. He's an Australia now and, and Walter from the Heartbreakers, he's a stockbroker in Manhattan.

9 (36m 38s):
So it was, it was, I think I got to see, we don't get what we deserve, you know, we get what we get and, and we have to be okay with that.

1 (36m 55s):
David Phelp lead singer of the Automatics. David is still writing music. He's released several albums since we first did this interview a few years back, and the automatics still gets a play. In fact, their song, old River tems is the number one hit on the UK heritage chart this week. Coming up a fascinating day in the life of a future prime minister. Maybe that's in a minute. In Chicago Bubble Radio, when our program continues.

10 (37m 22s):
In 1978, Duckhorn Vineyards began a long, rich tradition of crafting world class wines. Today their portfolio features a wine for every occasion this holiday season, give the gift of the luxurious and refined decoy limited Sonoma Coast chardonnay delight guests with a soft, fruity, and elegant aromas of Golden Eye Anderson Valley Pinot Noir, or pull out all the stops for date night pairing your delicious holiday favorites with Duckhorns Classic Napa Valley, Cabernet Sauvignon. Visit duckhorn.com to explore and shop the entire portfolio. The Duckhorn portfolio, St. Helena, California.

11 (37m 54s):
When I was growing up in Haiti with my family, we didn't have a lot and when we moved to America, we were always relocating. As an adult, I realized that stability was the most important thing to me in order for me to thrive. After giving many years to my job, I am financially set up to focus on what makes me happy.

12 (38m 13s):
Us Bank supports each step on the journey to thrive. To learn how the bank can help you celebrate wins, both big and small. Visit www.nytimes.com/us Bank thrivers.

13 (38m 28s):
It's Melissa Clark from New York Times Cooking, and I'm in the kitchen with some of our team, Nikita Richardson. What are you making for Thanksgiving this year? From our recipes, I'm

14 (38m 36s):
Making the cheesy Hassleback potato grat featuring layers of thinly cup potatoes. Very easy, but it's a real show.

13 (38m 43s):
Stopper Bon Reland, give us your

15 (38m 44s):
Take. Let me tell you that caramel apple pie, it's so delicious.

13 (38m 48s):
It's like a candy bar. I had a

15 (38m 49s):
Bite. It's got this shortbread light crust so you don't have to roll out pie dough.

13 (38m 53s):
You can find that Thanksgiving recipes you need at nyt cooking.com/thanksgiving.

1 (38m 59s):
This American Life, Myra Glass. Each week in our program, of course we choose some theme, bring you different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's show return to childhood stories of people visiting the past, what they find there, what they do not find there refers there. Today's show, a few years back, we've arrived at three of our show, act three, Ariel Shaone, sh Para, David Benor, and me. Sometimes when we revisit our childhood, it is not very pleasant what we find, take for example our next guest. When he was a teenager, he started reading the biography of David Ben Gorian, the first prime minister of Israel. And one of the things that he learned is that all of his life, David Urian kept a diary and the whole package seemed like a good idea.

1 (39m 42s):
The job, the diary.

16 (39m 45s):
December 3rd, 1986, Wednesday, another fascinating day in the life of Adam Davidson. I have a math test tomorrow I'm going to school early to tutor a girl in my class for the aforementioned test. My math class, A joint pre-calculus and calculus class consists mainly of seniors, not especially interested in learning. I guess that I'm the quote class expert in that I always do the math problems, which no one else can. And for this I'm disliked. I guess that because I apply myself, think clearly and do a little work as well as some intelligence helping out, I am a geek in truth, I am far from it.

1 (40m 25s):
When you first read that to yourself, when you first saw it, your reaction was,

16 (40m 31s):
It was pure horror.

1 (40m 34s):
Recently, Adam Davidson, an occasional contributor to our program, found his old high school diaries. Adam's mom is Israeli, his dad is American. Adam grew up in New York, well, his body was in New York. His brain, as the diaries reveal was somewhere else entirely.

16 (40m 51s):
I remember when I was writing it, I remember very clearly, although I don't, I don't say this in the diary, that it was very clear to me that this was the diary of the future Prime Minister of Israel,

1 (41m 3s):
Me,

16 (41m 5s):
That, that I would one day be prime Minister and it would be very important for history for people to know the deep thoughts of a young Zionist as he prepared his way to lead his nation.

1 (41m 23s):
Now our, our regular listeners here in this American life might remember that, that you've been on our program describing your experience in Israeli army summer camp.

16 (41m 32s):
That was right before I, I started writing this diary

1 (41m 35s):
Re read me another.

16 (41m 37s):
Sure. Let's see. There's so much wrong with Jews and Israel that I'm going to have a job ahead of me. One thing is the lack of any strong Jewish identity among most Jews. This attitude sickens me, you, Jews of the world stop worrying about money and wellbeing. I do not know what exactly I'll do, but if this situation continues when I'm a bit older, then watch out world jewelry. Here comes Adam and watch out world jewelry. Here comes Adam was all in capital letters.

1 (42m 12s):
Wow. Wow.

16 (42m 13s):
Yeah,

1 (42m 22s):
It's interesting that you actually are addressing a readership.

16 (42m 25s):
I know, I know. That's what, that's what's kind of amazing and

1 (42m 29s):
That readership is, is world jewelry, right?

16 (42m 33s):
Yeah. The Jews of the world will one day read this book and will say, if he knew this at 16, how could I be living so badly?

1 (42m 47s):
Can I ask you to just read one of the passages where you talk about Israel?

16 (42m 51s):
Sure. Let's see. I mean, I have this thing from January 4th, 1987. I memorized the Hope Hatikva, which is the Israeli national anthem a few minutes ago that will help me in Israel. That really amazing that here I am, the future prime minister of Israel and, and what are the things I need? Oh God, I need to know the national anthem. I'll probably, that's called upon to recite that at some point

1 (43m 17s):
Or there'll be a ballgame or something. Let me just stand up

16 (43m 19s):
And sing it. Right. Exactly. January 14th, 1987. Wednesday, I'm getting more and more angered by the effects of Arab propaganda. They blame the Jews for everything and the world, including Jews go along with it. Entirely ridiculous. I mean, I really thought this was, this was a testament for the ages. I really thought that this writing was powerful and persuasive and anyone who would read it would immediately become a Zionist at 16. I had such an inflated sense of myself.

16 (43m 59s):
There was so much going on in my life then that I can remember and I wasn't recording it. Instead, I was creating this ridiculous fantasy of, you know, I'm not just a 16 year old kid who's, you know, having crushes and, you know, a hopeless geek who can't get a girl a kiss him and being scared and confused about growing old. I'm, I'm the future prime minister of Israel and everything, you know, goes through that. But I don't know. I mean, but

1 (44m 30s):
Maybe, but maybe keeping a diary where one tells the truth. Maybe that's a luxury of being a certain, you know, kind of person in a certain kind of situation. May maybe, maybe other people in another kind of situation need to actually make up a little fantasy.

16 (44m 46s):
Yeah, I think I didn't have much angst about being the future prime minister of Israel. I was very calm and confident and comfortable with it, and I had so much angst about every other aspect of my life, and so I now see it as just kind of a, maybe it was a good solution. You know, it was a good way to deal with this, with what I was going through to have this space where I could just be, you know, one of the greats.

1 (45m 20s):
I wonder what the 16 year old Adam Davidson would feel in knowing that finally, you know, an audience of a million people was, was getting some of the reading from this diary.

16 (45m 32s):
I think this would feel so small to that 16 year old. This would feel so nothing. I mean, I remember I was very disappointed and very sad about my parents. I mean, I was reading biographies, of course, of all the prime ministers of Israel and, and I would just think about my parents and just think, how do you wake up every day knowing that your actions won't affect millions of people? Like how is that enough motivation? You know, just to have your petty little craft and your petty little family and your small little apartment. Like, you know, it just seemed pathetic.

16 (46m 15s):
And, and I mean, they have the kind of life that, you know, I mean basically I, I want for myself,

1 (46m 22s):
What you're saying though is, is that the 16 year old you would be cringing at your 30 year old, right? Just as your 30 year old version is cringing at the 16.

16 (46m 30s):
Yeah, that's very true. Yeah. He would be very, very disgusted if he heard this. This radio piece, it would seem like I had settled in a pathetic way

1 (46m 49s):
Out of Davidson Doc four when we were angels. This story originally came to us from a graduate student, Hillary Frank was studying, drawing it, the New York Academy of Art, and she mailed our radio show a story that she wanted to get onto the program. And what she had done is that she had recorded the interviews using her little micro cassette answering machine, and then to edit the quotes that she had gotten. What she would do is that she would record by dubbing and recording onto her shiny red boombox.

1 (47m 31s):
It was crude, yes. But the story sounded remarkably like a story from this American life now for one reason or another in time considerations, that unsolicited story never made it onto the radio for this week's show. However, we had her put together another story using that same style, which we added music to here at the radio station to make it fully sound like a story on our show. It's a story about an incident that happened to her back when she was an undergraduate.

17 (47m 58s):
Tufts University is a pretty straight place. Entertainment for most people means fraternity keggers. It's not the sort of place you'd expect people to watch a guy sitting on another guy's shoulders pretending to be a giant. It happened by accident in 1994, my friend Scott was the top half.

18 (48m 19s):
It was beginning of the school year and we were kind of bored one night and we decided to go up to the quad. And I guess basically Jeff got up on, you know, on someone's back and he started yelling and screaming about, you know, how giant he was and you know how magnificent he was. And I think actually right after that I might have gotten on someone's back and said, yeah, you know, I am also giant. And I guess that really struck a chord of me. I thought that was, you know, pretty amusing. I guess I thought a lot about it. It, it actually did, you know, start me thinking along a particular path.

3 (49m 10s):
Scott

17 (49m 10s):
Talked about the idea one night in the dining hall, the next day on the way to class, he saw signs all over campus that said, in bold print, I am nine feet tall. Come see giant man 8:00 PM on the quad. Scott had no idea who put them up. He learned later that the signs were posted by a guy who had overheard him talking at dinner. Scott decided he would go to the quad at the specified time and undertake the challenge to pull this off, he would need to create a character and a costume for the giant. He gave giant man a booming voice.

18 (49m 45s):
I don't even know exactly. It was something like, you know, behold I am giant. You know, just this, you know, not even loud, but just kind of weird and, you know, sort of suggesting randomness a vague way. You know, I don't know.

17 (50m 10s):
Scott asked his tallest friend Potto to act this giant man's legs. They grabbed some props before heading up to the quad, a blanket to wrap around their middle to hide potto along wooden staff and a black curly wig like the guise in kiss.

18 (50m 28s):
We had picked a point in the bushes. I and i, we kind of really couldn't see what was going on out on the quad. And so the time came and I got on his shoulders basically and tied the, the blanket around my waist. And we walked out and I remember there just being maybe, you know, maybe 10 people, 15 people, right? And I remember them being way on the other side and sort of running. And it, what was so ridiculous about it was, you know, there was like just a handful of people and they were so spread out, but they were all sort of coming towards me, right? It was like, you know what the, what the hell am I doing here?

17 (51m 8s):
They decided to plan another giant man appearance The following week they posted more signs and told everyone they knew, go see Giant man, it'll blow your mind. Word spread quickly. And amazingly they were able to keep it secret that they themselves were giant man. Most students believed there was an actual nine foot man come to Tufts for some mysterious reason, I was friends with these guys and I didn't even know yet. At the next appearance, almost 200 people were waiting for giant man en chanting his name. It was like a political rally. Some of them carried signs that said things like, we love you giant man, why are you here? Save us from ourselves.

17 (51m 48s):
Giant man, nine feet of loving and giant freak, go home, giant man made his way onto the quad and the crowd went wild. People came rushing out of their dorms to see what was going on. When Giant Man reached his fans, he made a small speech, I am giant, he booned I am huge and I have brought you butter scotch. He then threw cellophane wrapped butter scotch to the crowd and they dove for it.

18 (52m 19s):
On the, on the walk up, I, I just stopped in the, in the bookstore and, you know, saw some candy and I was trying to think, you know, what was like the most ridiculous candy that nobody ever ate. And I, you know, like, you know, there was butterscotch there and some kind of, you know, cellophane rapper. It looked like nobody, you know, ever was eating it.

17 (52m 45s):
Butterscotch became giant man's trademark tree when he ran out of things to say he would revert to throwing candy. The fact of the matter is Giant man had very little to tell the Tufts community, other than my strength is amazing, my girth is enormous and my height is unequal. He would brag like this for only two or three minutes and then retreat back to the bushes.

18 (53m 10s):
The problem was Poto would get really tired really quickly. Like he, he would, he walked out, you know, really fast. Like he almost was running out and, you know, he got really tired and didn't even know where he was going. And he kind of just, I mean, it must have just looked absolutely idiotic

19 (53m 28s):
So he

18 (53m 29s):
Couldn't see. Yeah, I mean, he was basically, his eyes were covered. Like I remember I would, I would sit on his head and I would put both my hands on his head, kind of like give him direction by like, you know, maybe forcing his head in a certain direction.

17 (53m 41s):
Giant man became a phenomenon enthusiasts where I love Giant Man T-shirts, which had silhouettes of a huge man with a bulging middle. There was once a parade across campus with noise makers and a trumpet to greet him. Another time there were torch jugglers and bodyguards letters were written to the student newspaper pro and con giant man teachers were mentioning giant men in class. There was a discussion in an ethics course in which people who hadn't seen giant men argued about whether or not we were exploiting a freak of nature.

18 (54m 20s):
I remember I was, I was out there, there was this guy that I kind of vaguely knew who was there with a bunch of his buddies, I guess we were like, you know, from the same fraternity or something, and they were, were jumping around and stuff and they're saying, yeah, we're, we're gonna take giant man down. When I went out there, you know, I was talking for a little while and then I saw him. He was, he was sort of right behind me. Are, you know, they were coming up from, from the side, him and his buddies. And I remember him just sort of coming up and starting to pull on my sheet and stuff. And one of 'em tried to push me and, you know, Poto who could barely stand as it was, you know, after, you know, walking out there and with me on his shoulders was, you know, he was sort of shaking a little bit and we managed to stay on his feet.

18 (55m 8s):
I remember just sort of, you know, offering them butter scotch and just, you know, sort of screaming about how much I loved them and they, they just kind of took off and, and it was over.

19 (55m 28s):
Do you think that if Giant Men had been an actual political cause that you would've gotten such a big turnout and there would've been such a big deal about it?

18 (55m 36s):
Yeah, I, I, I doubt that. I mean, if there was really, that's like one of the things I think that was, that was a big draw about it was that, you know, you did, it didn't have any meaning, right? And for whatever reason people were really drawn to that, right? I mean, if, if it had meaning or, you know, was trying to, to pitch some idea or something, it would kind of seem less real. I think when there is, there was really something fundamentally interesting and like, you know, truthful about Giant Man, I guess. I mean, you know, there is something that human, you know, people are drawn to, to that absurdity for, for whatever reason.

17 (56m 32s):
By the end, giant men's following had grown to about 350 people. I don't think any of us have had any experience like it since. When you're a student, it still feels like something exciting might happen. At any moment life feels full of all this potential, but when you get out of school, that potential just doesn't seem to be there.

19 (56m 54s):
What do you do now?

18 (56m 57s):
Oh, well I'm an engineer now.

19 (56m 59s):
What kind of engineer?

18 (57m 1s):
Computer engineer, designing, you know, computer circuits and things like that.

19 (57m 8s):
And do you have giant man-like experiences today?

18 (57m 14s):
No, I mean, not really. I I, you know, I'm not pring around talking about my magnificence.

17 (57m 33s):
There's actually a recording of giant men's final public appearance. There was a band called the Electric Fun Machine that dedicated a song to him and he appeared with them at a concert on the quad.

3 (57m 46s):
A giant man, giant

21 (58m 3s):
<unk> Don't let up me not for I am a benevolent giant man. I have come to show love as the symbol of my benevolent I shall once again shower you with

17 (58m 19s):
And then Giant Man through Butter, scotch Candy.

1 (58m 30s):
Hillary Frank, in the years that she first did this story for us, she has created many radio stories and a podcast called The Longest, shortest Time, which is about parenting. Her greatest podcast is a fiction show about middle school for kids and adults called Hero Wise Me.

22 (58m 45s):
But it's a long, long while from May to The Sand and today when you reach September.

1 (59m 1s):
But today's program was produced by Jonathan Goldstein and myself with Alex Bloomberg, star Kind, Aaron Yankee and Andy Baxter. Senior producer of today's program is Julie Snyder, production up from Anna Martin musical help today from Mr. John Connor. Special thanks today to Lawrence. We, Lacey Kind, Craig, Dan Weer, and Anna. Hi. Additional help on today's rerun from Valerie Kips, Matt Tierney, Jared Ford and, and Catherine Ray Mondo. Our website where we have brand new merch for your holiday shopping. Yes, a brand new T-shirt, our sweatshirt, a onesie available now this american life.org. This American Life is distributed by prx, the Public Radio Exchange. Thanks as always. Your programs co-founder Mr. To Mall. You know, he's been rereading the Bible and we've been talking about it in the break room.

1 (59m 45s):
I don't know about his interpretation of the Bible, like, okay, all right. Book of Genesis. God creates a man and a woman to live in the Garden of Eden. I really don't think it says

16 (59m 54s):
Watch out world jewelry. Here comes Adam.

1 (59m 57s):
I'm a glass back next week. More stories of this American life,

22 (1h 0m 2s):
These golden days.

1 (1h 0m 17s):
Next week on the podcast of this American life,

23 (1h 0m 21s):
I will, I will. Good office

1 (1h 0m 24s):
Russian soldier cause a Ukrainian hotline that Russian fighters can call to surrender. He won't be castrating us. Yes, he really doesn't know if he should trust them. Ukrainian on the hotline answers. Don't worry.

23 (1h 0m 40s):
Stories

1 (1h 0m 41s):
Of people daring to make the lead from one world into another. Next week on the podcast or in your local bubble radio station.