Apple Card (0s):
Reboot your credit card with Apple Card, the credit card created by Apple. It gives you unlimited daily cash back that you can now choose to grow in a high yield savings account that's built right into the wallet app. Apply for Apple Card now in the wallet app on iPhone and start growing your daily cash with savings. Today. Apple cards subject to credit approval. Savings is available to Apple card owners, subject to eligibility requirements, savings accounts provided by Goldman Sachs, bank usa. Member F D I C terms apply

2 (31s):
W b Easy Chicago. It's this American life. I'm I Glass.

3 (38s):
In the era of 1912, the kidnapping, the dunmore, that was a mystery

2 (48s):
Used to be. If something was big news, it got turned into a song. This one's about a famous kidnapping that happened in 1912. Kidnapping of Bobby Dunbar four year old boy for two years. The details of his disappearance and the search for him and how he was found and the trial of his kidnapper was all front page news reported breathlessly all across the country, but some of the biggest mysteries of the case were never solved until long after nearly everybody involved was dead. Almost a century. After it happened, the mysteries finally got solved and one of Bobby Dunbar's descendants started poking around the old stories, looking for answers she wasn't really expecting to find. Today we devote our entire show to the legend of Bobby Dunbar and what his granddaughter discovered.

2 (1m 31s):
The messy real story of what actually happened, which as hear turns out to be a lot more interesting than the legend. Today's show are rewritten, by the way. Tal McThenia is our reporter.

4 (1m 43s):
Everybody in the family knew it. The legend of Bobby Dunbar, the lost boy who was found. Well,

5 (1m 49s):
The legend was that back in the early 19 hundreds, my grandfather became missing.

6 (1m 54s):
My grandfather had gone on a camping trip with his parents. It was on a, a lake

7 (2m 1s):
Swayze lake. It's a actually a swamp in Louisiana, and he disappeared.

4 (2m 10s):
Bobby was just four years old at the time, and Swayze Lake was teaming with alligators surrounded by dark, thick woods. There was a massive search that started in the swamp and spread across the country, but nothing for eight months until

8 (2m 23s):
They found him in Mississippi in the hands of, of Mr. Walters,

7 (2m 33s):
The pedaler in Columbia, Mississippi.

8 (2m 37s):
They brought him home, rode in on a firetruck.

6 (2m 40s):
There was a, a tremendous parade with a a firetruck, and the whole town came out and there was a band and everybody celebrated and, and he was found.

4 (2m 55s):
But Bobby Dunbar wasn't out of danger yet. Someone else tried to claim him. Another mother she'd lost her child too, and said that the boy they found in Mississippi was hers. There was a big trial that proved her wrong and Bobby stayed with his parents, Percy and Leslie Dunbar in Oppel, Luis, where he lived for the rest of his life.

6 (3m 21s):
It was a, it was just a story, a tale you would tell, you know, your your grandchildren,

4 (3m 27s):
Which she would know. She was one of them. Margaret Dunbar Cutright, out of everyone in the family was the most captivated by the legend of her grandfather's kidnapping as a girl. She would beg her grandmother to tell the story over and over when she had children of her own. Margaret told them the legend too. Then in 1999, her younger brother Robbie, died in a plane crash. A month later, she was sitting in the den with her father and he gave her a scrapbook that had been her great-grandmother's overstuffed with photographs and letters and newspaper clippings from the early 19 hundreds, all about her grandfather's kidnapping.

6 (4m 2s):
It was about 400 articles, not in chronological order. Dad said This would be a great project for you, Margaret. He had no idea what what would come of that

4 (4m 28s):
Without realizing it. Bob had set his daughter on a path that would nearly tear their family apart. But in the beginning, all Margaret knew was that the scrapbook felt like the things she'd been waiting for In 1999, her kids were growing up and in the house less and less. Her husband, Wayne, was working in a different state and only home on weekends, and Margaret was in mourning for her brother. She had long empty days and the scrapbook could fill them, but the more she dug in, the more she began to realize this was not the breezy adventure tale. She'd grown up imagining even the simplest moments in the story, like when her great-grandparents are finally united with their son. After an eight month long national search, reporters from several papers were following the couple Les and Percy Dunbar on the train to Mississippi throngs of people were surrounding the house where the boy was being kept.

4 (5m 18s):
Les and Percy went inside, but reports diverge on what happened Next.

6 (5m 23s):
This article that says that the mother faints the, the headline raids mother faints, sight of kidnapped child. When the mother reached the house where the boy was being kept, he was asleep. Mrs. Dunbar made a careful examination of the lad without awakening him and was standing over the bed A few hours later when the child opened his eyes, the boy recognized his mother instantly. Mother, he cried as he reached up and stretched out his arms. To her, the mother Convulsively embraced the boy and then fainted. And the second article, the headline was Mrs. Dunbar not positive. Lad is her missing boy.

6 (6m 5s):
When they reached the home, the child was asleep. At the time when awakened, it began to cry. Mrs. Dunbar looked in the dim light of a smoky oil lamp and then fell back with a gasp. I do not know, I am not quite sure faltered Mrs. Dunbar,

4 (6m 23s):
In fact, Percy. And unless he both told the papers that the boy didn't look like their son, his eyes were too small. But then the next day they came back unless he gave the boy a bath and identified the moles and scars on his skin and declared he was hers. And according to some newspapers, Bobby didn't recognize his father or mother either or his brother. Alonzo one paper said, quote Bobby, at first meeting turns upon Alonzo with a scowl of anger. There appeared no recognition of his little brother. And then another paper said, quote, the instant they met Robert said, there's my Bubba Alonzo, and reached over and kissed him.

6 (7m 0s):
It was an frequent occurrence in the newspapers to contradict one another that it's very difficult to to know for certain what really happened.

4 (7m 17s):
So to sort out what happened, to try to get to the truth of the story, Margaret went on an obsessive quest to small town libraries and archives and courthouses all over the south. For her birthday, her husband gave her a card for the Library of Congress and she spent weeks in the reading rooms there. And as she dug into the historical record, certain figures from the family, legends started to seem like real people. For the first time, take the mother who came forward and claim that Bobby Dunbar was actually her child. Margaret had never given her much thought. She'd just been the woman trying to steal her grandfather. But in the newspapers, this woman has a name Julia Anderson. She's a single mom working in North Carolina as a field hand and a caretaker for the parents of William C.

4 (7m 59s):
Walters. The kidnapper Walters claimed that Julia gave him the boy willingly, that his name wasn't Bobby Dunbar, but Bruce Anderson, and that they'd been traveling together for over a year. When Julia first shows up in the papers, she confirms his story, although she contests some of his details.

6 (8m 16s):
The first article that that even brought her into light in a a way. There was an affidavit printed, William C. Walters left Barnesville North Carolina with my son, Charles Bruce in February of 1912, saying that he only wanted to take the child with him for a few days on a visit to the home of his sister. I have not seen the child from that day to this. I did not give him the child. I merely consented for him to take my son for a few days. Walters had been at the home of his father, Mr. JP Walters, near Barnesville since November of 1911. And while he was there, he and the child were together a great deal and seemed very fond of each other.

6 (9m 0s):
The boy would go anywhere with Walters. I would know my son if I were to see him, and I am sure he would know me. I have no picture of the child, but have a lock of his hair.

4 (9m 12s):
What was your reaction to that?

6 (9m 16s):
Her statement struck me as a very truthful statement. This woman was telling truth, she did have a son, and my heart hurts for Julia at this point, believing that this boy is her son. You know, it's really awkward because Leslie and Julia are in the same position. They're both missing children.

4 (9m 52s):
From May of 1913 on Julia was all over the headlines. A New Orleans paper paid for her trip to Opus to see if she really could identify the boy as hers. The story as was played out in the front pages was this, Julia arrived weary from an overnight train ride and was taken into an opuses home. Five boys around Bruce's age, including the child. The Dunbars had claimed as Bobby were brought in at different times and Julia had to choose. When Bobby came in, he was in tears and so was Julia. He showed no signs of recognition even when she offered him an orange. But Julia asked the lawyers in the room if this was the child who was recovered.

4 (10m 34s):
They refused to answer. Finally she said she just didn't know. And the test was declared a failure. Julia begged for a second chance and the next day she was allowed to see the boy again and undress him. This time she felt more certain that it was her son, but her failure the night before was already national news. Julia had no lawyer and no money and very few allies in Opel. So she left town and began the long trip back to North Carolina. And from that point on, the boy was Bobby Dunbar.

4 (11m 14s):
The more Margaret learned about Julia Anderson's life, the more tragic the story seemed. Julia had three children by two different men, neither her husband, and she lost all her children in just a single year. A daughter she gave up for adoption, a baby whose sudden death she was wrongfully blamed for. And now Bruce, but the newspapers weren't very sympathetic. They implied she was a prostitute called her illiterate and naive. Take this article in the New Orleans item titled Julia has forgotten.

6 (11m 45s):
Julia has forgotten by Jerome g Beatty. Her long journey had been in vain. She had not seen her son since February of 1912, and she had forgotten him. Animals don't forget, but this big co country woman, several times a mother, she forgot. She cared little for her. Young children were only regrettable incidents in her life. See, I hate this article. She hopes her son isn't dead, just as she hopes that the cotton crop will be good this year of true mother love. She has none. See how judgmental

4 (12m 26s):
Then one day Margaret found a Julia Anderson listed on an online genealogy site with this biographical note. Julia had a son from her first marriage named Bruce, who was kidnapped from North Carolina when he was six years old and taken to Louisiana. She tried to get him back, but the people that kidnapped him won him in court and changed his name to Bobby Dunbar.

6 (12m 51s):
Well, that was not what my grandmother told me. That was not right.

4 (12m 58s):
It was like an upside down world opened up to Margaret with a family who believed exactly the opposite of what her family believed. And in 2000, Margaret did, but nobody else in her family to her knowledge had ever done before. She went to meet and visit with the descendants of Julia Anderson, her two living children, Hollis Raws and Jewel Tarver and Jules's daughter Linda.

9 (13m 20s):
My name is Linda Tarver, and I'm the daughter of Jewel Raw Tarver, who is the daughter of Julia Anderson. And Julia Anderson would be my grandmother. All of us cousins grew up. We knew that we had an uncle that had been taken by the Dunbar family in Opal, Louisiana. We always said kidnapped. We said they kidnapped him. DM

4 (13m 51s):
From the Andersons. Margaret learned what happened to Julia after the controversy over Bobby Dunbar. Julia moved to Poplarville, Mississippi, 200 miles east of Alois, got married and had seven children. Julian Hollis are the youngest now in their eighties. Talking to Julian Hollis and Linda, a very different picture of Julia emerges than the one in the newspapers of a barely literate woman of loose morals. Here's Linda

9 (14m 16s):
Grandmother loved to read and she used to read Z Gray books and then she would sit 'em around at night and she would tell them the stories that she had read that day. But then when she became a Christian, she decided reading Z Gray was the wrong thing to do. So they never got anymore Zang gray stories, but they had to listen to the Bible. Then

10 (14m 39s):
We went to church. I'm telling you. And you behaved to a church.

4 (14m 44s):
Yeah, this is Julian Hollis, Julia's children.

10 (14m 48s):
And we'd walk through these woods, cross an old Hickory law across the creek and go to church and it'd be dinnertime before we'd leave and we'd starve to death before we got home.

4 (15m 6s):
Hollis and Jewel revere their mother. Julia didn't just go to church, they say she founded the church. She was a nurse and a midwife for the entire community. During the depression, she sewed all her children's clothes out of fertilizer bags, and they were always well fed. There was only one thing missing.

10 (15m 23s):
She always talked about Bruce, but she called him Bobby. She was always looking for him.

11 (15m 32s):
She never forgot it. Never ever forgot the boy. She'd always once in a while bring it up and what, what the boy looked like, and she'd take a while to tell it. You know about he's did so and so and this, that, and the other, you know? And if there'd have been, if it'd been possible for her to got the child legally back or anything, it, she would have done it if possible. She would've. She loved the child. She loved Bruce. She sure did.

4 (16m 19s):
So growing up you knew that Bruce was out there.

11 (16m 25s):
We knew.

10 (16m 26s):
We knew we had a,

11 (16m 28s):
We knew we had a brother.

10 (16m 29s):
We knew we, we

11 (16m 30s):
Knew that.

10 (16m 31s):
We kept thinking, well, one day we'll get to go to this town and we'll find him. But we never did go.

4 (16m 42s):
Even though Oppel Luis is just 200 miles from Poplarville, they didn't have a lot of money back then, and that kind of travel was expensive. They told me that when Julia went back up to North Carolina for her mother's funeral, they had to sell the family mule to pay for the trip. But it wasn't just the cost. Hollis says

11 (16m 59s):
Sorta, I reckon you'd be afraid if you want to know the real word. I knew according to the signs and things that they had in Oppel, that the Dunbar were well off people.

4 (17m 15s):
The Dunbars everywhere.

11 (17m 16s):
Everywhere you looked, there's a Dunbar sign on a building. There's something of the, and people that has those signs up. I was always thought that you didn't mess with them.

10 (17m 27s):
And we figured if they took mama's son, well, what kind of people were they to begin with?

11 (17m 36s):
And if people can do that through the laws and get away with it, who are we to do try to do or interfere with something like that?

4 (17m 52s):
For all the new things Margaret learned about Julia Anderson's family, one of the most surprising revelations Jewel and Hollis offered was about Margaret's grandfather. As much as the Andersons wondered about Bobby, it seemed he'd been wondering about them as well. Hollis remembers a day in 1944, maybe when he was in his late twenties. He was working at an ice plant in Poplarville, and a man he'd never seen before came in and started making small talk. Finally, he introduced himself. He was Bobby Dunbar from Oppel, Luis Louisiana. Hollis was startled, but before he could process it, a customer came in and Hollis had to rush off to work. When he came back, Bobby was still there, more small talk and now a lot of looking each other over.

4 (18m 35s):
But Hollis's work got in the way again, and eventually Bobby left.

11 (18m 39s):
But 30 minutes after he left, it dawned on me. What I had done here was a man that I'd been looking for, for, for, for 20, almost 30, 20 something years. Anyhow, the mother had been telling me about, here he is looking me straight in the eye. And I didn't do nothing about trying to find out more about the situation, but it didn't, I just didn't. And I regret that

4 (19m 18s):
Hollis's sister Jewel had a similar story. She was working at a service station that she and her husband ran at a crossroads outside Poplarville. A man came in and talked to her for maybe an hour. She says, just sat and drank coffee, looking only at her and asking all kinds of questions, but he didn't identify himself.

10 (19m 36s):
After he laughed then, and I got to thinking about it, I said, that is who I believe he was. Bobby,

4 (19m 48s):
When Margaret heard this story during her first visit with Hollis and Jewel back in 2000, she had her doubts, but later Margaret was visiting with her uncle and aunt, her father's siblings. And while they were in the car, Margaret was telling them about her research and the mysterious encounters that Hollis and Jewel remembered in the rear view mirror. She saw her uncle and aunt Exchange a charged look. Then they told her this story. Here's Margaret's uncle Gerald, Bobby Dunbar's, youngest son.

8 (20m 14s):
I was, it would been 1963, so I'd have been 13 years old, right? We were coming back from a trip, my brother's wedding in Ohio, in Cincinnati. And on the way back we went through Mississippi. And I remember my dad saying, pointing says, those were the people that that they came to pick me up from. And he asked, he says, should I stop? And my mother sorta responded, if you think you should.

8 (20m 57s):
And so they did. We stopped. Then he went in and to the store. And so we stayed there for maybe 30 minutes or so and he came back and, and we left

4 (21m 22s):
Margaret, the granddaughter of Bobby Dunbar and Linda, the granddaughter of Julia Anderson, interpreted this Erie coincidence differently. They'd been discussing Margaret's research on the phone and online since they first met. On the one hand, they were ideal research partners since they both were singularly fascinated with the story. But on the other hand, it was an uneasy alliance. Here's Linda.

9 (21m 46s):
Margaret was totally convinced that it was Bobby Dunbar all along. I was totally convinced that it was Bruce Anderson all along.

6 (21m 55s):
We understood that we were both coming from, from different angles.

4 (21m 58s):
Again, Margaret, but

6 (22m 0s):
What was there to do? But butt heads, you know? And yet we tried to do it very civilly for months.

12 (22m 8s):
Good morning to everyone, and we are certainly glad to have all of you with us.

4 (22m 13s):
Agreeing to disagree gets old fast. The difference is between Margaret and Linda came to a head in Columbia, Mississippi when Margaret was invited to share her research at the Historical Society in Town. The sound you're hearing is from a video of the event in the front of the room where Julie Anderson's children Hollis and Jewel. Several times during her presentation, Margaret used phrases like this,

13 (22m 37s):
The illegitimate child of a domestic, Julia Anderson,

4 (22m 41s):
The illegitimate child of a domestic, Julia Anderson herself, Julian Hollis bristled. That was their mom she was talking about. Margaret went on to describe Julia like a character and a story working in the fields with Coe hands and bare dirty feet. And she made it clear that she didn't really believe the Anderson family's version of what happened, that Bobby was Bruce, but her own families. That Bobby was Bobby son of her great-grandparents, Percy and Leslie Dunbar. When Julian Hollis got home and told Linda what happened, she got mad.

9 (23m 13s):
I truly don't believe that when she spoke and, and the way she spoke, I don't believe that she meant to say it, to be as derogatory as we took it either. If you wanna know the truth, she had spoken the truth of Julia Anderson had children out of wedlock. So she was a, a loose woman. I would, which if, if you have to accept that, you have to accept it. But I wanted her to see it from my point of view. You know, I felt like she looked at it from her point of view long enough that it was my turn.

9 (23m 53s):
And I don't remember if it was a written letter or emailed, but I told her, the very woman that you maligned at that meeting today could very well turn out to be your great-grandmother.

6 (24m 7s):
She said to me

4 (24m 9s):
Again, Margaret,

6 (24m 10s):
You need to look a lot more closely. You keep wanting to know all about Julia. You need to look more into Lessie and Percy and judge their characters. And that did not make me happy. It, it sort of anchored me to, to have her say that. But in retrospect, she was absolutely right. I did need to put down what I believed and be able to look at it with fresh eyes

2 (24m 50s):
Coming up, what Margaret discovers plus the kidnapper speaks. That's in a minute. From Chicago Bubble Radio, when our program continues,

BalanceUS (25m 1s):
The Coca-Cola company, Keurig, Dr. Pepper and PepsiCo are bringing consumers more choices with less sugar than ever before. From sparkling flavored and bottled waters to zero sugar sports, drinks, teas, and sodas. Consumers are taking advantage of these choices. In fact, nearly 60% of beverages sold contains zero sugar. To learn more, visit balance us.org.

The New York Times (25m 26s):
I'm Elena Bergeron. I'm John Branch. We write for the New York Times. When I look at a basketball sneaker, I think about my reporting on stick slip. It's a science behind why sneakers squeak. I came to understand that we hear this type of sound all around us. When I look at a basketball sneaker, I think about its impact on culture. I wrote about Melody Asani and how her work. Designing sneakers for the biggest male athletes can open doors for other women designers. The New York Times explore How we bring more of life to life At ny times.com/life.

2 (25m 57s):
This American Life America Glasss our story unraveling the century old mystery of what happened at Bobby Dunbar continues again. Here's Tom McThenia.

4 (26m 8s):
By 2003, Margaret had been researching for four years. She'd taken all the articles from the scrapbook and all the articles from all the libraries and typed them over 1200 total. Margaret had maps and photo albums and tape recordings and books on her shelf like social history of the American alligator. That year she started looking for descendants of William Walters, the wandering handyman, the man who had kidnapped her grandfather. In 1914, Walters was convicted of kidnapping. Bobby Dunbar, his lawyers appealed, and the state Supreme Court ordered a, a retrial. But incredibly, because the first trial cost the town so much money, prosecutors decided to drop the case.

4 (26m 50s):
Instead, Walters was released. In 2003, Margaret opened up something called the Walters Family Genealogy book. She poured over the names in the book and started making phone calls.

17 (27m 3s):
I'm Gene Cooper and I'm the great niece of William Cantwell Walters. We always call him Uncle Cant. I never knew he had William Cantwell until all this came up. He was always Uncle cant.

4 (27m 14s):
We met with Gene and her sister Barbara in Savannah, Georgia, just like Hollis and Jewel and Margaret. They'd grown up hearing the Bobby Dunbar story too. Only their version was a little racer.

17 (27m 24s):
Well, the story we heard was that this Ms. Julia Anderson was a fine young lady, but you know, mostly fine young ladies get entrapped. And I tell you what, as many a handsome, young, sweet talking man come around and entrapped him. So that's what happened to Miss Julia. As the story went. Now I know it was rumored that Uncle Kent was the father and one of his brothers was the father. Could have been Uncle Bun. He was a rounder. He was a real rounder. But they all denied it. They said it was another feller.

4 (28m 3s):
Jean and Barbara grew up on a farm in Georgia with their ailing grandfather, rad William Walter's brother. After getting released from jail, William Walters had gone back to his life as a tinker, a traveling handyman tuning pianos in people's parlors and fixing organs in country churches. And at least once or twice a year, his travels would bring him around to his brother's house for a visit.

17 (28m 24s):
See, an uncle can't come with his wagon or twinkling under bouncing the pots and pans of bouncing against each other. And you couldn't help but know it was uncle can't. But grandpa would lighten up. Oh, he would just brighten up. There's can, there's, can Youngs put some more wood on the fire. Go see what's in the kitchen, fix him some supper. He'd always come about dark every time I remember him coming. It was about dark, wasn't it, Bobby? Yeah. Right. And it didn't matter if we'd already had supper in the fire going out in the stove. We had to light up the fire and cook. Uncle can fix uncle can from some supper so he could sit with grandpa till midnight. But each and every time he'd come and he would come several times a year and stay a month at the time and or three, two to four weeks, they sat and talked over the case of the, the kidnapping and how innocent he was.

17 (29m 15s):
It was like it had just happened.

4 (29m 23s):
During one visit, gene and Barbara's grandfather asked William Walters what he was doing, traveling around the country with somebody else's boy in the first place. Walters explained that Julia was in dire straits and she couldn't take care of Bruce. And he was planning on bringing the boy back once she got on her feet. And also there was the business element.

17 (29m 42s):
Uncle Kent told grandpa that with that little boy with him, people were not nicer when he stopped to spend the night. Cause he would stop along the road at farm houses and around in his travels and ask for a knight's lodging and hey, for the horses. And then he would do things for them, tune the pianos, organs or whatever. And, and he said with that little boy, the mothers just couldn't wait to get their hands on the little boy and feed him and cuddle him and bathe him. And in fact, a woman told me one time she had a neighbor, if I'm getting off the beaten path, but it'll kind of explain it, that was ugly as homemade sin. And she was all the time wanting to take her little grandchild with her everywhere shopping into the grocery store and walking.

17 (30m 28s):
And I said, well, why does she want to carry him along with her all the time? I says, well, she is so ugly, it makes her look better to have a little child along with her. So that could been Uncle Cat having that little child, especially the ladies in the house were a lot nicer.

1 (30m 59s):
This

6 (30m 59s):
Is the defense file. These are photocopies.

4 (31m 4s):
Margaret had also tracked down the granddaughter of William Walter's lawyer, who had saved in a closet the complete defense file from the kidnapping case. When Margaret heard that she dropped everything, bought a portable scanner and showed up at the woman's doorstep, she spent a week scanning the entire thing. And then four months back at home typing and deciphering it. The defense file was a gold mine. It had correspondence from the governors of Mississippi and Louisiana, handwritten letters from Julia Anderson and dozens of sworn affidavits from Mississippi residents saying that the child was Bruce Anderson and that they'd seen him in the area with Walters months before Bobby Dunbar went missing. And then there was this letter written by William Walters himself just days after he was arrested and thrown in jail, addressed directly to Percy Dunbar, who had just taken the boy home with him.

4 (31m 55s):
I see that you got Bruce, but you have heaped up trouble for yourselves. I had no chance to prove up, but I know by now you have decided you are wrong. It is very likely I will lose my life on account of that. And if I do, the great God will hold you accountable. That boy's mother is Julia Anderson. You ask him and he will tell you, I did not teach him to beg or bum, but in as much as you have him take good care of him. So you have a lost Robert and me a lost Bruce. May God bless my darling boy. Write me if I don't get lynched. I think you'll be sad a long time, but hope not too bad.

4 (32m 45s):
The defense file was 400 pages of evidence that directly challenged Margaret's family legend. And pretty soon Margaret reached a breaking point

6 (32m 54s):
Toward the very end of of me typing the defense file, which was not in chronological order. I came across a letter that totally, it was my epiphany. It was a letter written by a Christian woman, I don't even know her name. She just signed it, A Christian woman. And it was written to the attorneys of William Walters and it says, kindly pardon me, I am ill in bed, but this matter has just worried me. Dear Sir, in view of human justice to Julia Anderson and Mothers, I am prompted to write to you, I sincerely believe the Dunbars have Bruce Anderson and not their boy.

6 (33m 36s):
If this is their child, why are they afraid for anyone to see or interview him privately? I would see nothing to fear. And this seems strange. The Dunbar's claim that it,

4 (33m 48s):
The letter goes on for six pages laying out a point by point common sense argument that the Dunbar's have the wrong child. Why haven't pictures of Bobby and Bruce been printed side by side so the world could see whether they look alike or not? Why is Julia judged more harshly for wavering than Lessie when neither of them recognize the child at first, which gets a Christian woman to her biggest point? A look back at that fateful night in Mississippi when the Dunbars first saw the boy and didn't recognize him until Lessie gave him a bath and saw his moles and scars.

6 (34m 20s):
If this had been their own child and he had been gone eight months, do you think his features would be so changed that they would not know him only by moles and scars? This is a farce. If the Dunbars do not know their child, who has only been gone eight months by his features, why they don't know him at all reason, by reason by reason, this woman is giving me every, she apparently followed this very closely in the newspapers and it just simply dawned on me, oh my God, she's right.

6 (35m 0s):
This is what a forest, what a farce this is.

4 (35m 13s):
The idea for a DNA test had been floating around for years, but Margaret hadn't wanted to do it unless all her uncles and aunts, Bobby Dunbar's children agreed to it. And then four years into a research, a reporter from the Associated Press, Alan Breed got wind of the story. Margaret remembers being in the room when Alan asked her father if he would consent to a DNA test. She was startled at his answer. Yes, he said he wanted to do it now he'd waited long enough. Margaret's father, Bob Dunbar Jr. Was Bobby Dunbar's oldest son. He'd heard the legend of course, but he'd never heard it from his father.

7 (35m 48s):
It was not something that we discussed at home. It was just the, the stuff was in the attic, newspaper articles, some pictures. It was stuff that my mother gathered and at home, we never discussed it.

4 (36m 6s):
But Bob had been watching Margaret's research with interest. Remember he'd given her the scrapbook that got this whole thing started. Bob had just spent weeks in the hospital with congestive heart failure and explained his decision this way. In a letter to his family, daddy did not have the science of DNA to confirm the decision of the court and his youth. I feel it is my responsibility to achieve that before I go. The easiest way to do the test would be to compare the DNA of two different lines of Dunbars. Someone from Bobby's line, since his identity was in doubt, and someone from his brother Alonzo's line since there was no question, he was a Dunbar Bob and Margaret spoke with Alonzo's son David, and he agreed to do the test.

4 (36m 49s):
The plan was to keep the results sealed until all Bob's siblings agreed to open them. A month passed,

6 (36m 55s):
I called to check with the laboratory and the laboratory assistant ended up blurting to me. The results on over the phone, the d n a did not match, you know, as far as she was concerned, it was a paternity test. You know, she had no idea that the impact of what she was saying to me, it was a shock to me. Not really the the conclusion, but to hear it,

4 (37m 27s):
Margaret got off the phone and drove 10 hours that day to tell her father in person he was still in the hospital.

7 (37m 33s):
It took my breath away, you know, I was, I just didn't, I hadn't considered that. My thought was to prove that daddy was Bobby Dunbar. So I, it took me, well, I had a lot of time. I I was in the hospital a while and I just pondered, you know, and alright if, if, if my past is wrong, Bobby Dunbar, all the legends, all the stories, and, and, and, and then all of a sudden you find out, well, that's not, that's not who your blood says you are.

7 (38m 20s):
Where does that leave me? You know, where does, if if my grandpa isn't my grandpa, who am I?

4 (38m 41s):
Bob's siblings had no idea he'd taken the test. And then an AP reporter was preparing to write an article for the National Wire. Bob had to tell them. And when he did, they were all stunned and really mad, mad at Bob, but especially mad at Margaret, who they blamed for orchestrating the whole thing and making it national news. Margaret's younger brother Swin explained what it was like.

5 (39m 3s):
You know, she was really going up against the entire family, you know, including myself. In fact, I'm not sure of any family member that was for it, you know, except for her and possibly my dad, you know, and, and in retrospect, you know, she was doing what she felt was right, but felt like she was alienating everybody else doing so. And she was, the other thing about all that, you know, is some of us in the family, and probably even me at one time, probably felt like she was being a little bit selfish. You know, why, you know, do this. Why do you need to do this? You know, nobody in the family needs, you know, wants to know.

4 (39m 54s):
After the story ran in 2004, a thick silence descended between Margaret and her relatives. And that schism has persisted to this day. When she told them I'd called her about doing this radio story, the relatives were furious. They told Margaret that. Yet again, she'd proven that she couldn't be trusted. They said she was disrespecting their heritage and destroying family relationships. They told her that they were done bars and that's all they wanted to be, but the other two families involved took it a little better. Virginia and Barbara Cooper, the great nieces of William Walters, it meant their ancestor wasn't a kidnapper, which was nice to hear.

17 (40m 36s):
You don't like to think of your people being guilty of something like that. And we didn't have a whole lot of, I don't think we had many people did with it was falsely accused.

18 (40m 46s):
The ones that were accused were usually guilty

17 (40m 49s):
And proven. So,

4 (40m 52s):
And for the Andersons, it was literally the answer to a lifetime of prayers. Margaret's father, Bob and his wife Amelda, went down to Mississippi to deliver the news in person to Linda, jewel and Hollis. We

11 (41m 4s):
Didn't know what was up. They said, be there, we'll have some. They didn't tell us. They wouldn't tell us what till We got to the meeting and he told us that the DNA had been run, that, that he was not a done bar, you know? And that's where the eyes, you know, we all just, I got up from where we were sitting on the couch and I went around. I think I hugged his neck just knowing that man we're family. We're just family.

9 (41m 49s):
When Bobby Junior, Ms. Amelda came and they told us about the DNA testing, that's the day Bobby came home and he came in the form of his son. And we were proud for Julia. The one thing she wanted most in her life was, was her child back. And she got him.

10 (42m 22s):
I told him that day, I said, now we're not expecting nothing from them. Tell them, but friendship, that's, I, that's all that we ever wanted.

11 (42m 33s):
We have no hard feelings against nobody, nobody of what has happened. Cause back in those days, I am sure they thought they were doing the right thing. And if I've been back those days, it might, I might have felt the same way in a way about some things like that. I, I, I don't know. But now we just happy about the situation, but not happy. They're unhappy. If you know what I'm talking about, we just happy because we know the truth. Now,

6 (43m 13s):
Let's see, we're coming up. We're getting closer to where my grandmother lived. My grandfather, oh my gosh, it was this house right here.

4 (43m 24s):
Margaret's taking me on a driving tour of Alois. She grew up spending summer vacations here at her grandmother's with her whole family. It's a mix of personal history and history. She's read about in her research, we go by the public pool where she used to spend afternoon swimming and hanging out. And also the old jail site where William Walters played a homemade harp to the crowds outside his cell window. I wanna

6 (43m 46s):
Turn left.

4 (43m 47s):
We drive into a subdivision that our great Uncle Alonzo developed sprawling ranches, big lawns, strange street names.

6 (43m 55s):
Yeah. And he named some of these streets, like this one was named after himself, and he named one called Anna Lee after his wife. And there's one called Dunbar Street, which here we are at Dunbar Street.

4 (44m 11s):
There's still Dunbars and Oppel relatives that Margaret knows and loves, but she doesn't feel comfortable bringing me in for a visit where tiptoeing around Margaret cigarette breaks are happening more and more frequently. The contrast between the tension and opsis and the welcome she'd received two days ago from the Andersons in Poplarville is hard to miss.

6 (44m 32s):
Julia Anderson's children have done nothing but welcome and embrace me into their lives. And they think that I'm brave and smart, and William Walters family thinks that I'm a wiz. I think for my family, when I started this project, I thought that this would sort of keep us bonded. And it didn't. It c it, it divided. So in a way, I feel like failure.

6 (45m 13s):
There are people upset by it. And there are some people who still don't accept that the truth. It's like they don't believe me. They don't, they don't believe me.

4 (45m 34s):
The disappearance of Bobby Dunbar blew apart the lives of three different families. But the people you'd think would be hurt the worst by it actually come out the best. Like Julia Anderson before Bobby's disappearance, she was a field hand in North Carolina on her own, not making enough money to feed her own child. The people she worked for mistreated her. The man she married, shot her in the foot the night after her wedding. But William Walter's kidnapping trial got her out of there to a better place. Poplarville, Mississippi back in 1912 and 1913, William Walters and Julia's son Bruce had been well-known fixtures in the Poplarville area. He and Bruce stayed in people's homes for weeks at a time while he tuned pianos and repaired the church organ.

4 (46m 18s):
And when William Walters went to trial, these very people, at least 20 of them, came forward to testify to his innocence. And that's where they met Julia, the mother of the child they'd known and cared for, who was also there to testify for Walters after the trial. Julia had no money and no place to go. The people from Mississippi took her in.

9 (46m 38s):
It was almost like she was adopted, just like Bruce was taken in to be Bobby. And both of 'em were given a new life. I mean, they, everything that bad could be said about somebody was said about Julia at this trial. You know, everything that could be said was said, but these people saw something in her or they wouldn't have taken her in her home. In their home. Yeah, the people here in Ville out at Fords Creek, they could have left her in Ois, they could have left her in New Orleans, but they brought her home with them.

9 (47m 24s):
She lost everything. She lost. She had a baby that died just before she came down here, you know, and now she's lost Bruce, what did she have to live for? Why didn't she, you know, suicide was not of unheard of. You know, I'm sure if they didn't promise her, they just said, come home with us, you know, come home with us till you get on your feet. Come home with us till you can get up and do for yourself. So I can't regret it. I cannot regret for one minute that, that she came down here. I'm sad that, that she did not have that child.

9 (48m 4s):
And I don't believe that she would ever made, given the opportunity of saying, okay, we'll give you a new life if you'll give us this child, she would've never given that child up. I don't believe that. But if you hate that it happened, then you hate that you are. If that makes any sense. And I don't hate that. I am, I'm, I rejoice in that. I am. I rejoice in the family that, that we've got, and I feel like grandmother felt the same way

4 (48m 40s):
As for the consequences for Bobby. Even Julia Anderson's children, Hollis and Jewel figure, he was probably better off with the Dunbars.

11 (48m 48s):
I don't wanna put him down or my mother down either. You know what I mean? She did the best she could with what probably she had to do with. But here's some people that he got off the wagon to get in a car

6 (49m 15s):
And closed are the divorce papers. I promised you, I know that these are official copies because the notary seals are raised. The

4 (49m 22s):
Divorce papers of Percy Andie Dunbar are breached originals. But even the bare facts are enough to imagine what life in the Dunbar family was like for Bobby after the trial was quite lessie and Percy separated in 1920, meaning five years after the court affirmed that Bobby was hers, Lessie left him, her husband and her other son, Alonzo behind and moved to New Orleans. Bobby was 12 and Alonzo was 10. Also, in 1920, Percy beat and stabbed a man while on a trip to Florida on the eighth anniversary of the day of Bobby's disappearance. His court record for this assault is included in the divorce papers. Lessie makes, makes accusations of repeated and ongoing infidelity, but Percy denies the charges elsewhere.

4 (50m 6s):
There's another court record that corroborates les's claim. It's an arrest record for Percy on charges of adultery and cohabitation. But perhaps the most compelling detail is a handwritten note that accompanies the packet. It's from Lessie herself to Elizabeth, her granddaughter, who took care of her in her old age.

6 (50m 25s):
That says, for Elizabeth Dunbar to, to read after my death. So she may know why I stayed in my shell of grief.

4 (50m 37s):
She stayed in her shell of grief.

6 (50m 42s):
I think she had to have on some level known, and maybe she didn't. I don't know. I, I think maybe she was in a denial her entire life. I, from everything I've heard, she truly believed that this was her son, Bobby. But I can't help it. But wonder that maybe underneath where you go and can't talk about, she must have known that this was not her son that she birthed.

4 (51m 35s):
And this is probably at the heart of the Dunbar family's unhappiness with this story. What it suggests about their ancestors and their ancestors', motives and characters.

6 (51m 45s):
It's likely to me that Percy must have known somewhere inside of him that this little boy he took from Mississippi was not his son. And I don't say that lightly. It took me, it took me a long time to come to that conclusion. After reading all of the articles and the court records, these divorce papers, I realized that if he was capable of doing these things, if Percy was capable, if he could stab a man, if he could be with another woman while he was married, you know, he lies in these papers.

6 (52m 35s):
Percy, could he lie about this child? Did he lie about this child? He had a motive to save his wife's sanity. Could he do that? I think he could. I think he did.

4 (53m 3s):
It's hard to look square in the face of this and doing so has put Margaret and her father Bob at odds with the rest of their family. But Bob says, only by looking at it squarely can you see the redemption in their family story. When Bobby Dunbar was 18, he fell in love with a girl from a nearby town. It took him nine years to get her to marry him, but once she did, they raised four children who all remember a very happy upbringing, full of love. And Bobby Dunbar gave rise to this family. Despite all that he'd been through, whisk away from his mother at three, living in a wagon with an old man huddling by fires in the woods at night. A two year long gauntlet of undressing and parading and sobbing and staring.

4 (53m 45s):
And when that was all over, his new family fractured and fell apart. And once again, he was abandoned. To come out of that, to create a family after that to Bob, is a story of triumph.

7 (53m 58s):
I feel like my daddy could have had all the excuses in the world to be a drunk and a child abuser or anything, a rascal. He had a terrible, traumatic young life, but he chose my mother and he chose to be a family man. And that was his world. That was his life. And I, I, I truly believe that those experiences for him and for mother who lost her, her father, before she even knew him, were forces that gravitated them towards one another and towards a common feeling that, you know, they would be family.

7 (54m 49s):
I realized that I, I grew up in a charmed environment. I, everybody can't say that and daddy couldn't say that, but he made that environment for us

4 (55m 14s):
At Swayze Lake. There are now houses where fishing shacks used to be Margaret standing on the concrete bridge that replaced the railroad trestle. Looking out on the embankment where they found a four-year-old footprints in 1912. After considering what Bobby Dunbar's disappearance did to everyone in three families for a hundred years, there's only one person who's not accounted for. If Bobby was really Bruce, what happened to Bobby?

6 (55m 40s):
I think he fell off this bridge and was eaten by an alligator and died. That's the most likely scenario.

4 (55m 53s):
When you think about who the boy that died here. Does that feel like your grandfather?

6 (56m 4s):
It's like my grandfather became two people. He was really Bruce Anderson, that's who he was born. That's where his blood came from. But he lived Bobby Dunbar's life

4 (56m 25s):
In 1932. When Bobby Dunbar was 24, he was asked to look back on his kidnapping. The Lindbergh baby had been stolen and some reporters came around for a word with a famous kidnapped child of yesteryear. A lot of people still believe I was eaten by an alligator. Bobby said in the interview, I can assure you I was not. He went on to recount a memory of being with William Walters on the wagon on the road before the arrest, before he was recovered by the Dunbars In the memory. There was another boy with him who fell off the wagon and died and was buried. There was a theory put forth by the prosecution at the trial that William Walters might have been traveling with two boys, Bobby Dunbar and Bruce Anderson.

4 (57m 8s):
This would explain why two boys had been lost, but only one was found. It would answer the question, what happened to Bruce 19 years later in 1932? Bobby had taken that theory and made it into a memory. A memory which might have served another purpose altogether. If Bobby Dunbar is to fully become Bobby Dunbar, then Bruce Anderson needs to be dead. Maybe it was by settling on this memory, the other boy on the wagon that he created the legend he needed to begin his new life. His own legend of Bobby Dunbar.

2 (57m 47s):
Tom McHam. He wrote a book with Margaret about all this, A case for Solomon Bobby Dunbar in the kidnapping that haunted a nation in the air. Since we first broadcasted story back in 2008, Joe Tarver and Hollis Rawles have both died as well as Bobby's oldest son, Bob Dunbar, Jr. His wife, Amelda, and William Walter's great nieces Jean and Barbara Is produced today by Alex Bloomberg. Our senior producer for this episode was Julie Snyder, technical director is Matt Tierney, production oppo. Today's rerun from Ella Mustafa in Stone Nelson. Special thanks today, a greed, Francis and Hope Briggs, Wayne Cutright, Anna Dunbar, David Dunbar, Amelda Dunbar, chef Joe Doo, Ellen Luciano, Estelle Perro, Martha Quill and Ronnie Raws.

2 (58m 34s):
Also the Poplars Road Public Library, Betty Redden, Margie Standard, Michael Walters, Tammy Westmoreland, Gerald Westmoreland, Frankie Berran, and Maureen Little of the Oppel, St. Landry Chamber of Commerce. Our website, this american life.org, we can stream our archive of over 750 episodes for absolutely free. Also, if you're looking for something to listen to, we have lists of favorite shows. There's videos again this american life.org. This American Life is distributed by prx, the Public Radio exchange. Thanks as always to our program's co-founder, Mr. To Maia who says, we young people have it so easy. He remembers what it was like back in the day to come to the radio station every morning when he was a little boy

10 (59m 13s):
Through these woods. Cross an no Hickory law across the creek.

2 (59m 20s):
I'm a glass magnetic week. The more stories of this American glass,

3 (59m 26s):
Nok, anything you know about that child, the father and mother, father Dunmore child get told them almost while two months and months, something of their boy and he called, there was someone to

2 (59m 59s):
Next week on the podcast of this American life, when Sarah and her friends crash a party in a college hundreds of miles from where they live, 10 years after they graduated, something very strange happens. Sarah was meeting this college senior for the first time

23 (1h 0m 13s):
And he pulls out his laptop and he opens it up and he like points this file that has my name on it.

2 (1h 0m 21s):
Yes, A file with her name. What's in it next? We're on the podcast. We're local public radio station.