0 (1s):
Hi, everybody. It's IRA glass. And for this American lives, 25th anniversary, we are putting eight favorite episodes from over the years into our regular podcast feed. Often when strangers, tell me about their favorite story on our show. This episode switched at birth is the episode they name. When I hear this episode, now, what hits me honestly, is how cunningly structured thing is where, where you hear about the mom from all these other people before you ever hear from her. And then how your picture of her changes. Once you actually hear her Sarah Koenig, who was then a, this American life producer and who went on to host serial, she was reporter Jake Halperin's producer for this story and was so instrumental in shaping how it works on the air.

0 (44s):
In addition to the amazing reporting that Jake did anyway, here's the story back in 1994, this is back in the days when people still delivered big news to each other, by mail to women who barely knew each other. Martha Miller and Susan MacDonald got a letter from Martha's mom,

1 (1m 1s):
Dear Martha and Sue, have you ever suspected or been told that we took home the baby that belonged to Kay and Bob McDonald. And they later took home the baby that belonged to us.

0 (1m 13s):
That's Martha reading. And the purpose of this letter is that Mrs. Miller is breaking the news 43 years after the fact to Martha ensue, that she took the wrong baby home from the hospital. The Martha and Sue was switched at birth. So she's not Martha's biological mom. She sues and wonder what makes it so strange is that this wasn't the sort of thing where Mrs. Miller figured this out to her surprise after decades of wondering and pondering and painstaking detective work. No, no, no. She knew it. The day she got home from the hospital in 1951, that she had the wrong baby baby, born to a woman named Kay McDonald. And she kept it quiet all those years. Here is how Ms. Miller explained that in the letter, the other daughter in this baby switch, Sue, who was born to Mrs.

0 (1m 57s):
Miller, the one writing the letter, but raised by Kate MacDonald. The other woman reads

2 (2m 3s):
I had complete anesthesia. So was asleep when our baby was born, the nurse weighed the baby and must have left her in the delivery room until after K's baby was born very soon after mine.

1 (2m 16s):
When we took our baby home, she sneezed five times in a row.

0 (2m 20s):
Again, Martha Miller, who now goes by Marty, who once was the baby who sneezed five times in a row.

1 (2m 26s):
I thought that was strange. Never had that happen with any of our others. We had a baby scale at home. When I weighed the baby, she weighed two and a half pounds less than her birth weight.

2 (2m 39s):
I was sure then that there had been a mix-up. I talked to Norbert about it, but he did not want to disgrace our good Dr. Death's luck a week or so after the baby's birth, I was reaching for something way back in the attic closet and started to hemorrhage. Then went into convulsions, back to the hospital for several days and despair for my life. So I dropped the mix up baby pursuit.

1 (3m 6s):
As Martha grew, she did not look nor act like any other children. She was a delight to all of us, so pretty, so photogenic. So full of life. Our other children were very serious. Martha excelled in music was a great cheerleader at school, very popular and a blonde. Our other children had dark hair And all needed glasses for near-sightedness. Martha did not need glasses.

2 (3m 41s):
Finally, on July 10th, 1994, Norbert was willing to go to Kay and Bob McDonald's 50th wedding anniversary celebration at perdition United Methodist church. When he saw you Sue, he said, I don't need a DNA test. Sue is ours. She looks just like Mary. Lydia would make a good twin tour. That is why I wanted to write this letter.

1 (4m 5s):
So now we are both aware of what happened 43 years ago. We love you, Martha Jane, I'm sorry. We love you. Martha Jane, as dearly as our other six children, I think you know that you will always be our daughter, but I thought each of you should know your biological and spiritual backgrounds. I know you have mixed feelings about this revelation. I have much anguish and many tears,

2 (4m 43s):
But I feel I must get this out in the open. So you to know how wonderful that you both are Christians and great workers in the church. Do let me hear from you. I love you both. Thanks. And Jesus leads you in this time. Happy 43rd birthday to you. So

1 (5m 1s):
Until you Martha

2 (5m 3s):
Lovingly, Your mom, Mary Kay Miller.

0 (5m 12s):
So at this point, you're probably wondering why in the world, didn't Mrs. Miller, straighten this out quicker. Why didn't you listen to her husband back in 1951? Why the big concern about disgracing the doctor over, you know, having the wrong baby. And as you heard in the letter, one thing that makes this whole thing, even stranger is that the two couples knew each other. The Millers were at the McDonald's anniversary party, they're mutual acquaintances. They go to short drive from each other's houses and it was Zika in Curtis sheen, Wisconsin. And when Mrs. Miller finally let everybody know the truth. Long after both girls were grown up with children of their own, it was disruptive. That is the kind of news nobody ever wants to hear.

0 (5m 55s):
And when you get this kind of news as an adult, that your mom isn't really your mom or your daughter, isn't really your daughter. And at the same time you have a new mom or a new daughter. It is not so clear what you're supposed to do with this new parent, a new child who's now in your life. What are you supposed to be with each other? And both Marty and Sue worried that the families that always thought were theirs and still want to keep them both mothers and daughters. Each had to figure it out on their own. All four women say things got very lonely for them today. In our show, we hear what happens when somebody takes your family, throws it up in the air, like a deck of cards, WBZ, Chicago, it's this American life, IRA, glass, whatever, getting the full hour today to what happened to these two families, Jake Halpern is the reporter.

0 (6m 41s):
And before he starts just to help you keep everybody straight in this story, a quick overview of the two families, the Millers are the bespectacled dark headwinds from the letter Ms. Miller's husband, the Reverend Norbert Miller was an evangelical preacher devoted to the church. And they were a bookish serious bunch. There's just a house with a lot of rules. And there were a lot of kids to seven kids and all the McDonald's or the light haired ones from the letter. And it was a much smaller family, just two kids. And the feeling in their house was very different from the feeling of the Miller's house. They were easygoing quick to laugh and joke around. Mr. McDonald ran a TV repair shop in town. Here's Jake Halpern.

5 (7m 21s):
It was the four women at the center of all this, the two moms and the two daughters who were affected more than anyone. So let's take them one by one, starting with Sue, Mrs. Miller's baby. It was raised by the McDonald's before the letter arrived, the facts of Sue's life. It seemed pretty orderly. She was a married mother of three, living in Michigan, where her husband worked as a chemist. She was close to her mother. She called and visited her parents regularly. She also had an older brother, Bob named after their dad. It was all pretty straightforward. And yes, Sue is different from the rest of the family in certain ways, dark and tall and skinny and a family. That was none of those in a pretty lighthearted household. She was nervous, studious serious, but it didn't seem so strange

2 (8m 5s):
In junior high. I remember my friend said to me, you must be adopted because you do not look at all like your parents. And I said, I don't know. You know, I asked my mother, I said, am I adopted? And she said, oh no, no. She says I was pregnant and you are my child. I wanted a baby. You know? And, and you're my baby, you know, you were not adopted.

5 (8m 28s):
So that convinced you.

2 (8m 31s):
Oh yeah, that was enough. I mean, she, that was right. My mom said, oh, well you just take after great grandpa, this or aunt so-and-so or, you know, so then I just forgot about the whole thing.

5 (8m 51s):
Years later, when she got the letter that told her the truth, she was stunned. And she knew she had to break the news to the McDonald's. Who'd raised her, but she didn't call them right away. Mr. McDonald had a bad heart and she didn't know what the stress would do to him first. She wants it to be absolutely sure it was true. Blood tests were done with the Millers and they prove Mrs. Miller was right about the switch weeks went by and Sue began to fret. She wrote letters to her parents, but didn't send them. She worried her mother might reject her. Sue knew her mother had never been a big fan of the Millers ever since they met. And now suddenly it turned out Sue was one of them.

2 (9m 28s):
It was confusing. And then after I knew that they were, that I had been switched and that I had different genes. And my parents kept talking about these people that were so odd, the Millers, because they, Reverend Miller, he is an evangelical preacher. You know, he wants people to know Jesus Christ and that they would be saved. And, and I'm really like that too. Sometimes my mom thinks I'm a little fanatical. I'm really a Miller. You know, what does she think of me? I mean, that's my biological family.

2 (10m 12s):
So I, I did think, yeah, you know, she's, she's going to know that's not my daughter and she's going to end. She's going to get this popular. Marty who is so fun, loving, and, and looks like her. And then she's gonna say, well, I don't need that daughter anymore. You know, she's part of that odd family, you know,

5 (10m 39s):
A month after she got the letter, Sue went to see her biological mother and father. This is a videotape of that first meeting.

6 (10m 46s):
And who are these people? Now this, you tell who that is. Is this your dad?

7 (10m 51s):
My dad right there.

5 (10m 52s):
So it looks happy. Reverend Miller is affectionate with her, putting his arm around her waist. Everybody's smiling. Okay. Sue now had four new sisters and two new brothers and the Millers show her pictures of her other relatives.

7 (11m 4s):
He's a roster bottom. They went to Oregon. Get away from that, got a girl in trouble. See,

5 (11m 11s):
There's a lot of nervous laughter and there are some awkward moments like when Sue talks to Mrs. Miller about the fact that she never got enough breast milk as a baby,

6 (11m 20s):
My mother didn't have enough milk for me. It's all your fault. Did you have any?

5 (11m 27s):
But overall the Millers seem giddy that their daughter is finally come home and Sue seems eager to know them.

6 (11m 33s):
So you look like you're too. That's what I was thinking. And you looked so much like a Carol

5 (11m 39s):
Later that same day, Sue drove to the McDonald's to the parent. She'd grown up with after dinner. She sat down and told them about Mrs. Miller's letter told them point blank. She wasn't their child. At first, they refused to believe her. But then she told them about the blood tests. Finally, Sue handed over all letters that she hadn't sent them in the past month letters telling them how much he loved them and how much he wanted to stay their daughter.

2 (12m 4s):
And like my dad said, you know, you are my child. I changed your diaper. And my mother, she, nothing was going to be different between us. But it was just, it took a while for us to, how are you going to think? Mrs. Miller has for 43 years has been longing to see her, the child she'd given birth to us. So she's excited about it. And my mother's like what happened to my life? It exploded.

5 (12m 29s):
Once things calmed down, Sue came to two conclusions, one, she wasn't going to become a strange from her mother and two. It was her brother. She might lose.

8 (12m 39s):
My name is Bob McDonald and I am 61 years old. I would say that Sue and I were probably not that close for whatever reason.

5 (12m 55s):
The reason was pretty simple. Actually they have almost nothing in common. Bob is four and a half years older than Sue a sweet jovial guy who never got along with his broody little sister. And when Bob found out about Marty found out that she was his biological sister, he called her right away in California.

8 (13m 13s):
When she got on the phone, I was just totally blown away. The way she pronounced her words were identical. With the way my mother talked. She could have been my aunt or my mother talking on the phone. And I knew that she had to be my sister and I was super anxious to, to meet her and in person. And until that time we just talked all the time with every phone call that we made, you know, we opened up more to each other and you know, we had the same personality and we would think so much alike.

2 (13m 57s):
My brother and Marty are just like thick as thieves in what seems like. And whenever Marty comes to my hometown, she stays with my brother and they stay up till our all hours of the night talking

5 (14m 11s):
For Sue her brother's enthusiasm for Marty brought out every insecurity. She suffered as a school girl. She didn't fit in. She didn't have the social ease that came. So naturally the Bob and Marty,

2 (14m 23s):
He was popular. And I wasn't, I was like a serious person. Nobody would dance with me at the dances. And I, you know, I won, he had a band. I mean, I was shy or I was whatever. And I wanted to be a cheerleader. I tried out for cheerleader. I just couldn't do it. You know, I didn't get picked.

5 (14m 43s):
As years went by when there were family events with everyone, Sue would get anxious. If Marty was there too, occasionally she'd break down and cry.

2 (14m 52s):
I remember at the wedding, when my nephew got married, my brother danced with everybody. He danced with Marty and you can see they're just having so much fun and laughing together and, and just dancing away. And then he danced with my cousin. He danced with my mother. He danced with Eric. He didn't dance with me. And here I am, you know, it's like, I'm a teenager again. And nobody danced with me and that was, it was bad. But the good part about that was when I got home from the wedding and my brother called me and he said, you know what? I didn't even dance with you. And I said, who told you to say that? So he did know what to, but it just brought up feelings that feel Crummy again.

2 (15m 40s):
And you know, because I wonder what's going to happen. When my parents are gone, is my brother going to care to even see me anymore.

5 (15m 54s):
This brings us to Marty, the other baby and this baby switch Before she found out the truth about who her mother really was. Marty's life. Wasn't all that different from Sue's already was also married. Also had three kids. She'd also moved out of Wisconsin in her case to Southern California. She's also religious like Sue, but that's pretty much where it ends. Marty worked all of her adult life and still does as a nurse. She grew up as the sixth child and a family of seven kids besides her. There was Mary Lydia, faith, Ruth, Sonny, Luke, and Esther. Her mother ran a disciplined household. Everyone had to work. She remembers washing and drying all the dishes.

5 (16m 34s):
By the time she was five or six, there wasn't much money around the five girls shared one bedroom. The church was the center of their lives and the family never went on vacation. Or even to the movies. Instead, they were all taught to paint and encouraged to play music like Sue though, Marty stuck out in her family for one thing, she was the only one who joked around. She says, even now the Miller's can't tell when she's being ironic. And then there was the blondness and the perkiness and the socializing. Marty says she felt like everything she was interested in was lost on her parents.

1 (17m 7s):
I don't think that they ever came to watch me cheer in a game that wasn't something that they would have done because athletics was really not a value to them at all. I was just not ever meeting their expectation of intellectual realism. And my mother has told me since then, you know, you, I really didn't expect that much from you because I knew that you weren't our child. It was a hard thing to hear

5 (17m 50s):
Incredibly when Marty was 21 years old, someone actually told her that she might not be a Miller. One of her older sisters, Ruth came to visit with her husband. Rudy, Rudy had a couple of beers and after dinner, he got to talking

1 (18m 3s):
And then he started asking me what I knew about the McDonald's. And I really didn't know anything about the McDonald's. And then he told me that I looked like them. And he said, what would you do if I told you that they were your parents? And I, I was kind of stunned. It was the first I had ever heard anything about it. And he did in fact say some hurtful things. Cause he told me, you know, well, I don't care what anybody says from as far as I'm concerned, you're not really rude sister.

1 (18m 44s):
I thought it was just Rudy being Rudy. You know, he just has crazy ideas and he dreams these things up.

9 (18m 53s):
I was just horrified and he didn't tell me ahead of time. It just came out with it.

5 (18m 59s):
That's Ruth, she and faith. And Mary Lydia, the older girls had sorta, always known about the possibility that Marty wasn't, their biological sister, a couple of them, including Ruth had vague memories of their parents talking about it. After they brought Marty home from the hospital about how this baby looked different from Mrs. Miller's other babies. And that may be this baby had been switched. Then when Ruth was about 16, her older sister, faith came home from a trip on a Mississippi riverboat and told Ruth she'd seen Sue McDonald on the boat. And then she looked an awful lot like them. They decided that Ruth ought to have a look too. So the two girls cooked up a reconnaissance mission. On one Sunday, they got their boyfriends to drive them 17 miles away to the McDonald's church and period machine Ruth sat down in a pew near the front next to faith,

9 (19m 46s):
Right before the service began. She says, there's Sue, walking down the center aisle. And I thought she even walks like Mary. You know, I would, I was just like, wow. You know? Wow, that could be, that could be her. That could be my sister. And yeah, I think it might be.

5 (20m 9s):
And at any point during this time, does it cross your mind? Well, why don't we just ask mom and dad about this?

9 (20m 15s):
Nope.

5 (20m 19s):
That's not how their family worked. They just didn't talk about these kinds of things. And as Ruth and faith saw it, it wasn't their place to mess in their parents' affairs, which is why when her husband, Rudy blurted it out a few years later, Ruth was so shocked

9 (20m 33s):
And Marty refuse to believe it. At that point she denied. She says, oh no, no, that's not true. You know? So, so then I thought, well, okay then it's not so bad if she, you know, she still believes she's my sister that's good.

5 (20m 53s):
The next week though, when Marty was visiting their mom, Mrs. Miller, she asked her about what Rudy had said, Mrs. Miller gave her a non-committal answer saying that once upon a time, they thought that maybe perhaps might have, but even if it did happen, there is no way to prove it. So that was that Over the years, but thought that you might be someone else's child festered in the back of Marty's mind. And much later when she was in her mid thirties, she decided to get to the bottom of it. She was working for a group of pediatricians, which included a genetic counselor. She told the counselor her story and said, she wants to get blood tests done.

5 (21m 36s):
The counselor asked her what the McDonalds knew about all this.

1 (21m 39s):
And I said, I don't think they know anything about it. So she said, well, if you were to find out that, that these parents, that you have are not your parents and the other family doesn't want to have anything to do with you, how are you going to feel? And I said, well, I don't know. I don't have any idea. And she said, you really need to consider how that's going to change your family for you and how it's going to change relationships for you. So she said, unless there's a real, a reason that you need to know, she said, I don't recommend that you dig into it.

5 (22m 33s):
That's sort of spooked Marty. So she left it alone. That's where it might've ended. If it hadn't been for Mrs. Miller's letter a decade later, It's hard enough to learn that your mother isn't your mother, but it's even harder when that news is delivered by someone like Mrs. Miller tact, isn't her strong suit. In fact, she seemed to have a tenure for the whole thing. For starters, Mrs. Miller, didn't contact Marty and Sue. At the same time, she first sent a letter to Sue McDonald. The daughter she barely knew, and then waited almost two weeks before mailing the letter to Marty. The daughter she'd raised. She said she wanted to call Marty first, but never managed to reach her as a result. Marty got worried about one of the most basic facts of her life.

5 (23m 14s):
Second hand, all the while waiting to hear directly from her mother.

1 (23m 18s):
And in the meantime, I had gotten phone calls from people I didn't even know that were telling me, you know, Hey, I'm your brother. Hey, I was switched at birth with you. You know,

5 (23m 29s):
When she finally heard from Mrs. Miller, the mother she'd grown up with not only did she get the letter, but Mrs. Miller had just been to the 50th anniversary party of the McDonald's Marty's biological parents.

1 (23m 40s):
And so she took a one of the programs from it and she mailed it to me. And basically, and this is going to sound like kind of a small thing, but it was a big thing to me. She circled the names of people that were participating in the program. Like my, one of my uncles on the birth side, Earl Gonzales, she circled his name and she wrote, this is your uncle. And she circled my brother's name and said, this is your brother like Bob. And Kay. She would circle their names and say, these are your parents. And you know, I'm reading this thing going, what do you mean? These are my, this is my uncle.

1 (24m 21s):
This is my brother. This is my mom and dad. This is not my, my family. I don't even know who they are. And I took that as a, you know, okay, I'm saying, as of right now, you're not our kid. You're their kid. You're in their family.

5 (24m 48s):
RD says her mom, Mrs. Miller sees the world in black and white. She focused on the facts of the situation. Maybe hoping she could fix things by simply setting the record straight. She wasn't malicious. She wasn't trying to be hurtful. After all those years, she was just tired of secrets. And now she wanted everyone's role to be clear, but it was hard. Marty says to be on the receiving end of this sudden adamant truth-telling

1 (25m 12s):
There were a few years there where every chance my mother got, she made it perfectly clear that, you know, I was a McDonald for the longest time. Whenever she would write to me, she would include McDonald in my name.

5 (25m 29s):
Oh my God, are you serious?

1 (25m 31s):
Just absolutely bizarre. Things like that. She, she, that's just how she is. She, there is no gray area. Actually. My mother wanted to go to court and have my name legally changed back to Sue McDonald and have Sue's name changed. That was her idea. It's kind of, you know, she tells me that this is, you know, you're, you're my daughter. And, but at the same time, she says, when she refers to Kay, she says, well, your mother is doing such and such, or your mother said this.

1 (26m 15s):
And when I think of my mother, I think of her

5 (26m 26s):
During this time, it was Marty's dad, Reverend Miller, who reassured her, they started talking on the phone a lot. He explained things like why all those years ago, he refused to return to the hospital and switch back the babies. Any of that Marty know that he still loved her.

1 (26m 40s):
He did not want her to push me out of the family. He was, he in fact would call me and tell me, you know, I don't care what she says. You're still our kid. And I'm glad we had you.

5 (26m 58s):
Did you feel that then after this happened a little bit closer to your dad than your mom?

1 (27m 3s):
Yes. Yeah, definitely. At that point, my dad had this horrendous guilt because he felt like it was all his fault that he should have believed my mother for, you know, all those years. And he just, I think he honestly never thought it was a possibility. He thought she really dreamed this up in her head and just got obsessed with it. And the other thing was that he really thought, what difference does it make a child as a child? She's with us.

1 (27m 44s):
She's ours. Now

5 (27m 52s):
The other problem for Marty was how to approach the McDonald's her biological parents. They were nice enough when she spoke to them on the phone, but they weren't exactly welcoming her into the family.

8 (28m 2s):
I remember talking to mother about, you know, this is your blood daughter,

5 (28m 9s):
Here's Bob McDonald, who remember, was having these great phone calls with his new found sister.

8 (28m 14s):
This is the daughter that actually was in you. And you know, I mean, I understand you didn't raise her, but she is your blood, you know, biological daughter. And I don't know that she was as excited about it as I was. And I couldn't figure that out at the time she was guarded

5 (28m 41s):
From Marty's perspective, the genetic counselors prediction from years before seem to be coming true. It felt like she was losing both her mothers. Marty wrote a letter to Kay, and Bob McDonald, her biological parents. I want you to know that I will accept whatever contact you choose to have with me, even if it's none at all. I promise you. I'll never try to make you think of me as your daughter. I know that Sue's your daughter and no one could ever expect you to feel otherwise. Marty eventually decided that the only way she was going to resolve this was by getting on a plane and flying out to Wisconsin, to meet the McDonalds face to face and give them a real chance to get to know her.

5 (29m 28s):
They got together at Bob and Kay McDonald's house. Didn't go exactly. As she wanted, from the McDonald's perspective, Marty looked and acted remarkably like a MacDonald. She got along famously with their son, Bob. She even had the exact same oil painting on her wall in California, as they had in their living room, a landscape with trees and water. But Sue was the girl they had brought up and they felt loyal to her protective.

1 (29m 52s):
I kind of felt like the like Bob and Kay were kind of keeping me in an arms distance because they weren't really sure how they felt or wanted to feel. And I don't think Sue had that sense.

5 (30m 6s):
In fact, that's true. Maybe because some of the Miller girls had suspected that she was their sister for decades. And because Mrs. Miller always knew the truth. Sue is being embraced completely by the Miller clan. And so while Sue had feared, everyone would choose Marty, the outgoing cheerleader over her. It didn't work out that way. Here's Marty.

1 (30m 26s):
In fact, it was the exact opposite. She had both families wanting to make sure that, you know, she was included in their family. The Millers wanted to incorporate her family into our family as quickly as they could. And she, I did feel in the beginning, like she was taking my place in my family and that was odd, very odd. And sometimes I don't know exactly what her relationship is with my sisters. You know, I, I honestly don't know how much they communicate, how much they're in touch.

1 (31m 11s):
Part of me really doesn't want to know, because I think I would feel left out of something

0 (31m 26s):
Coming up, but it's like to be a mom and to learn at the age of 69, that your only daughter isn't actually your daughter at all. And if that weren't bad enough, that lots of people in your town, people around you knew years before you did Jake hopper and story continues in a minute from Chicago public radio. When our program continues, this is American life. Myra glass. If you just tuning in Jake Halpern is telling the story. This hour of two girls switched at birth. One mother Mary Miller knew and kept it a secret. Did nothing about it for 43 years. The other mother came MacDonald had no idea.

0 (32m 7s):
The duke fathers in this story when not interviewed Mr. McDonald's health, didn't allow it. Mr. Miller died in 2000. And so in this half of the story we hear from the mothers again, here's Jake Halperin

5 (32m 20s):
At the hospital in 1951, Kay McDonald was told that she'd given birth to a nine pound four ounce baby. She didn't question that every day she was at the hospital, the nurses brought her the same baby girl, nothing seemed to miss to her. And as that baby SU grew up, the one thing that puzzled K was that Mrs. Miller, whom she knew vaguely from church seems so interested in SU

10 (32m 43s):
She always referred to the girls as sisters, after they were born, she had written us a Christmas letter and, and said, she'd always liked to keep in touch with Susan because the girls were so much like sisters. And of course, I thought that was foolish, but I went along with it because I don't like to make waves, I guess you might say. And so that's why I started sending them a copy of our Christmas letter.

5 (33m 16s):
That's how Mrs. Miller kept track of Sue over the years, Mrs. Miller would do or say things concerning the girls. Things that just seem strange to Kay, when K's church was celebrating its 150th anniversary, for instance, Kay was chairperson for the event. Reverend Miller had once been pastor there. So he and Mrs. Miller were invited

10 (33m 35s):
And the Millers came and I was in the hallway and Mrs. Miller said to me, did you ever think that our girls were switched at birth? And I, I said, heavens no. I thought that was such a ridiculous thing to say. And, and I, of course I was very busy because I was chairperson and I had so many other things to do. So I pass it off, but that's all she said. There was nothing any further. I didn't, it didn't bother me because I just thought I couldn't see any merit to it. I didn't have a doubt in my mind.

10 (34m 16s):
And I'm not one to borrow trouble.

5 (34m 26s):
What Kate McDonald didn't know was that there was a whole slew of people in her church, community who had heard about the rumored baby switch from the beginning, Mrs. Miller and Kate McDonald were actually in different churches. Kay was a Methodist. And the Millers were evangelicals. Mrs. Miller told people in the evangelical church about her suspicions, friends of hers and people she hoped would keep an eye out on Sue. But later the two churches merged. So a bunch of people from the evangelical church now knew who came McDonald was and who Sue was and realized that this was the girl Mrs. Miller believed to be her own. And this whole crop of people knew, but never said anything to Kay McDonald. One of them was Darlene Wolf Graham. She heard it first from her own mom who heard it at church.

11 (35m 9s):
She said, everybody kind of at church after having seen Marty beside the rest of the family, just couldn't believe that that was their child. It was pretty concealed right? Within our own church, probably the ladies aid, maybe, you know, the little group that got together. In fact, my mother said, well, just don't tell anybody. You know? So we all, we never said anything about it.

5 (35m 36s):
I totally Wolf cram did tell her daughter though. And the daughter bear with me, ended up marrying Sue's brother, Bob,

12 (35m 44s):
The older,

5 (35m 44s):
But even she never divulged the secret to Bob or any of the McDonalds here. She is her name's also Sue.

12 (35m 50s):
So no I didn't because it was always just a rumor. And I thought, well, he'll think I'm nuts. You know? And he was very angry at first with me. And I, he said, why wouldn't you have told me that? And I said, would you have believed me? I mean, I'd say, gee, guess what, Bob, I don't think your sister's yours. Well, you know, there was no DNA testing back then or anything else. So, I mean, there would have been no proof.

5 (36m 19s):
That's what most people in town seemed to feel. It wasn't their place to bring up such a thing, especially with no way to know if it was true for sure. What that meant was that after Kay McDonald finally found out the truth in 1994, people started coming up to her in church, mostly casually mentioning that they'd known about it all along.

10 (36m 37s):
I was surprised that nobody really ever Told us the booms, the teenagers, the Langs, the Hasan's, I just couldn't believe it. I just, I just thought it was odd that so many people would know in a town of our size, which was like 5,500 people when that many people were aware of it, that the news didn't get to us,

5 (37m 13s):
Slowly anger began to set in. Kay, was angry that Mrs. Miller hadn't corrected things back in 1951 that Mrs. Miller had hijacked her life in this way. And she was angry that Mrs. Miller put Sue in the difficult position of having to break news like this to her parents and angry that now the Millers were asking so much of Sue's time and attention. It got so bad. Kay had to go on medication for high blood pressure.

10 (37m 37s):
Well, of course they were really clamoring to get to know her. And I felt excluded. I felt they were trying to take her away from us. And, and Susan always had said to me, mom, why didn't you have any more children after I was born, she wanted to be a part of a big family. So then she found out she had all of these brothers and sisters and the phone calls were fewer. And I, and of course, Marty didn't really call a whole lot. She's a very busy gal and I was not having that much communication with her.

10 (38m 21s):
And I thought I was losing both of them.

5 (38m 26s):
Kay. McDonald began getting notes and phone calls from Reverend Miller. He told her that he thought it was God's will that this had happened even. So he asked her for forgiveness again and again, he's just outright. He's just saying, can you forgive me? Just, just like that on the telephone.

10 (38m 43s):
Yes. And voting scriptures all the time for me to read, to console me, because I had said that I had, I had shed a lot of tears and, and I, I had probably all of the emotions that you have with a death in a family. You know, I, I think I went into a kind of a depression about similar to what I did when my mother died. And so of course he was trying to get me to say that I had forgiven them. And

5 (39m 18s):
How did you feel when he said this was God's will, I mean, what was your action?

10 (39m 22s):
I couldn't believe that because I don't, I don't have that feeling about, I don't think God punishes us in any way. I think what we do is pretty much our own doing, but he had everybody convinced. I think that it was God's will, but I had talked to several of our former pastors who knew about the situation and they assured me that this was not God's will. They said that was a cop-out. And so I don't think that was too well-received when I mentioned that I told Mrs.

10 (40m 6s):
Miller, I felt that it was God's will, when she realized that she might not have the right child, I think it was his will that she do something about it.

5 (40m 24s):
She wrote that in a letter to Mrs. Miller, eight years after she learned the truth. That's how long it took her to sort out her feelings. Kay. McDonald in the Millers eventually reached a kind of detente. Kay is no longer angry the way she was. But she said, she'll never understand why Mrs. Miller stayed silent for all those years.

10 (40m 42s):
If I had as strong a feeling as she did that, I had the wrong baby. I would have pursued it. I, I don't care whether my husband objected or not. I, I feel like I should have made a wrong into a right. I only had one daughter and she had five daughters. In fact, we were even, weren't even sure we'd have another child. So of course we were elated when I did get pregnant. And, and then to think that I didn't get to raise the one that I had wanted to so much.

10 (41m 25s):
And so I never will probably understand why. I mean, I've forgiven them, but that doesn't mean that I forgotten. I can still wonder why, and probably would never will know why it didn't come up any sooner.

5 (41m 56s):
Mary Miller is 96. Now. She lives by herself in the country. Her house is filled with the remnants of her and Norbert's life together in the church. They were married for 60 years. There's a large statue of an angel in her sitting room, which he's planning to put on her own grave. When I first talked to Mrs. Miller about what had happened when Marty was born, she told me pretty much the same story she told in her letter, how she knew as soon as she got home and weighed the baby, that the nurses had made a mistake.

13 (42m 23s):
Yes. I told him no, really. I think we have the wrong baby. And he said, well, I wouldn't disgrace the doctor by telling him he gave the wrong baby. And he says, this is a nice little baby. We will keep her.

5 (42m 40s):
When your husband said to you, this baby's cute. Let's keep it. Did you agree with him immediately? Or was there a little bit of arguing back and forth over what to do?

13 (42m 50s):
Not, we didn't get back that, but I kept looking for her and I was always asking anyone who might have seen her and fact, I, when I would go down and have any touch with McDonald's, we, we got introduced to them. I, I tried to talk to her about it. And she, she told somebody that it was crazy. Yeah, it's crazy. The woman thought I had girl,

5 (43m 25s):
It was a little surreal to hear her talk about it in this way, laughing like that. Especially after hearing came McDonald's side of things, but then Mrs. Miller told me more of her side of the story. For one thing, she explained just how sick she was after they'd gone home with Marty in 1951, she was losing blood and having spasms. She thought she was going to die. She told me that she even started calling around and trying to find someone who'd be a mother to her six children. The sickness, she said lasted for six or seven months. By the time she was well fixing the baby switch problem was that much harder, even if she could somehow convince everyone, it was true. What would happen if you suddenly took a six month old away from the only mother she knew and the family's relationship with Dr <inaudible> was no small thing.

5 (44m 9s):
Either. Reverend Miller had made many visits to Dr. <inaudible> wife when she was sick. And now Dr. <inaudible> refused to charge the Millers for anything. The Millers didn't have much money and they might not have been able to afford the healthcare otherwise.

13 (44m 23s):
Well, of course, we blocking dead in jail for doing that. This doctor had been so kind to us. Good. Do us have why ruin all that? You know, that's a big consideration

5 (44m 39s):
Because Mrs. Miller didn't want to cross her husband. All she could do was hope that maybe if she dropped enough hints calling the girls, sisters and such, Kay, would eventually realize on her own what had happened. It was an odd strategy. If you can even call it that. When Sue got married, for instance, the Millers gave her a trivet. Norbert had made the card was signed from your other possible parents. Sue dismissed it as part of the whole sister thing, which she also thought was kind of weird. Mrs. Miller's most ambitious scheme happened after the girls graduated from high school, when they were about to be 18, Mrs. Miller arranged for the McDonald's to come to dinner. She figured if she could simply get Kate to look at Marty, Kay would figure things out the evening, just ended up being kind of baffling for everyone involved since only Mrs.

5 (45m 26s):
Miller knew what was going on,

13 (45m 28s):
But they didn't notice any, I don't know why they didn't notice it. That Martha looked like them and was like them. I don't know why it didn't say

5 (45m 40s):
The fact is Mrs. Miller longed for SU for her biological daughter ever since she realized the mistake back in 1951, but it seemed feudal trying to convince her husband Norbert.

13 (45m 51s):
I said, I think we, it's not right to do that. You know, to keep somebody else's baby. I didn't think it was right to do that. And every time I'd talk to him, he'd say, huh? It's all right. It'll be all right. And I can't tell you how hard it was, but I got me all along.

5 (46m 22s):
Were you afraid of Norbert at all?

13 (46m 25s):
Well, I know I wasn't afraid of him. I knew that were things I couldn't do and, and keep his friendship. You know, if I turned against him, like on, on that, I guess you can understand. I didn't want to have a disagreement like that with a thing. Cause that would Orrin our marriage that would have ruined it. And I had no one to run. I had children to take care of.

5 (47m 4s):
Was there ever a time when you thought back and thought I should have stood my ground more with him on that?

13 (47m 13s):
No, I guess I haven't because at knew it wouldn't work. I couldn't do anything about it. Not written. I had a good time while we were together, but Norbert should have gone back and said, this is not, maybe This was a bad decision, but he didn't realize the effect that one can make a decision.

5 (47m 58s):
Neither sooner. Marty blames, Mrs. Miller for going along with her husband, they say they're not angry with her. They knew Reverend Miller. They understand what their relationship was like. They understand why she didn't speak out sooner. 42 years after the switch, Reverend Miller finally laid eyes on Sue at the McDonald's wedding anniversary party. And the moment he saw her, he knew that she was his biological daughter. She looked exactly like him at last, Mrs. Miller felt free to act a month and a half later she wrote the letter.

13 (48m 31s):
Yeah. I wanted him to agree with me And he did. He finally did, But by it was a relief for me Because that was terrible. That hang on what y'all on. And It's sad that it happened. It took Kay an awful long time at night. I'm sorry.

5 (49m 8s):
One thing Mrs. Miller doesn't regret is raising Marty. She remembers Marty always lightening the mood in their house.

13 (49m 15s):
As a kid, she, she was really live liar. He always had jokes. She had jokes every day and deepest laughing. You know, it was, it was good for us to laugh. It was really good for us ever. I'm eating. My kids are awful serious about their life yet. No, they're more like I am.

5 (49m 45s):
W before, when I'd asked you, if you thought it was God's will you said yes. And is the reason because Marty brought something important to your family.

13 (49m 56s):
He cheated, He brought happiness.

2 (50m 4s):
Dear Sue, I'm writing you this short note to officially give you my welcome to this Miller family and relationship.

5 (50m 12s):
This is Sue reading a letter. She got some time ago from her new Miller sister faith

2 (50m 17s):
Though. There are many, many good things about our family and parents and being raised by that family. There were also some definite deficits. If you're ever curious as to what they were, I would be very willing to fill you in. So you fully appreciate the parents who raised you between ourselves, Ruth and me, we, or at least I always figured you lucked out probably Martha with her happy go, lucky nature could take the climate of the Miller home better. And we hope you flourished in the McDonald household.

5 (50m 53s):
Wow. Wow. So she's basically, I mean, that's, she's basically saying to you, you may have actually gotten a break here being in the family.

2 (51m 6s):
I lucked out.

5 (51m 8s):
I mean, are there times when you, when you feel a little bit guilty about kind of having lucked out with the home that was, you know, maybe a little bit easier to grow up in?

2 (51m 18s):
Well, sure. I guess, yeah, a little bit of guilt, but it's not my, it's not my fault. There was nothing. I didn't have anything to do with it. Right. My sister, faith called and she was talking about the way her mother would talk to her and I'm thinking, how would I have survived with that kind of upbringing? You know, I didn't grow up like that at all. I don't know how I would've survived.

5 (51m 42s):
But Sue said there are a lot of things she missed out on too, by not growing up with the Millers. The family did all kinds of hobbies, painting and rock polishing, and 3d photography. They had dogs and raised Angora, rabbits, all sorts of interesting people came through the house, guests from out of town and missionaries. It was a different way of living. One that she admires has from RD. She doesn't like to dwell on the notion that Sue might have been the one who lucked out. Does the thought ever cross your mind? What if the switch hadn't been made? What if the McDonald's had just taken me home? And I had grown up in the house with my biological parents, my biological brother. Who would I be?

1 (52m 23s):
Oh, that's a funny question. I, I really, I really only thought about that one time. I only let myself think about it one time. It was actually right after I met them and I was going back to my, my mother's house. So I left parade machine and I was driving and it was then that I started thinking, oh my gosh, you know, my life would have been so different. And as I, the more I thought about it, the more I realized, you know, I can't think about this because it'll drive me crazy if I do.

1 (53m 5s):
And so I kind of made a promise to myself that I would just never go down that road again, that I was not going to. I'm just not going to go there. And I really haven't because there's no point

5 (53m 33s):
It's pretty rare that Marty and Sue actually meet face to face. Once every few years, they get together for a large family, gathering a wedding, a graduation, a funeral this summer, Bob MacDonald's younger son got married in period machine. When Marty showed up at the house for brunch, the day after the wedding, she couldn't have seen more at home with the family that she didn't meet until her forties. She teased the groom and handed. Bob's older son, a present for his baby.

1 (53m 58s):
It's a little late for your child. It's before kindergarten. So it's okay. Yeah. So it's a birthday present

5 (54m 9s):
When Sue arrived, she slipped in quietly. This was the side of the family she was raised with, but she seemed tense watching as Marty made the rounds, everybody laughing having the two of them. So near each other was a little awkward. People were definitely aware. Whenever both women were in the same room at one point toward the end of the party, as soon as two nearby, Marty started talking about the room that she had grown up in, in the Miller household. All the girls were in the same room, already shared a bed with her sister faith and had to crawl through this vent to get to the bathroom at night because faith would block the doorway to the hall.

1 (54m 43s):
So instead of going in the hall and going out, we would crawl through the register. Well, my sisters had this crazy thing going on when they were, when faith was a teenager, she would push the dresser and the Cedar chest against the door. And you in the room, you were in, you mean

5 (55m 1s):
That suit? It was the first time I'd seen them talk to each other

1 (55m 5s):
In the room that we slept in the

15 (55m 7s):
Five through the register to get to the

1 (55m 9s):
Bathroom. You had to go under the bed and crawl. It's like a

5 (55m 12s):
Dock door.

1 (55m 13s):
Exactly. Yeah. It was like a dog door

5 (55m 17s):
Just out of here. And what was, what was your, your,

1 (55m 23s):
You had your own room.

15 (55m 25s):
Yes, I did. In my own bed to everything.

1 (55m 30s):
Yeah, whatever. It was a different life.

5 (55m 34s):
Mrs. Miller says she worries from RD and Sue about whether they'll ever truly get along. But there's no question. Things have gotten better between the two girls and their moms. Kay. McDonald is still tight with Sue the daughter she raised, but she's also much closer with Marty Kay and Marty both cried when Marty left the wedding for California and things are good with Mrs. Miller too. Marty's accepted that. Despite some of the clumsy things that her mother said and did, when she broke the news to her, she met well, Marty calls Mrs. Miller once a week to check up on her, just like Sue does. Now that the big family questions are mostly worked out. One of the toughest things, both Marty and Sue have to deal with is logistical.

5 (56m 15s):
Having two sets of parents and two full sets of siblings and cousins is kind of a practical headache. There are birthdays and graduations and figuring out where to spend holidays earlier this month, Sue's daughter got married in Michigan. All the Millers were invited and all the McDonald's were to Marty considered. Whether she should go, she didn't grow up with Sue after all. And she's not actually related to her or to her kids, but in the end she made the trip because she's a Miller. And so is Sue and she's a MacDonald. And so as Sue,

0 (56m 56s):
He's toasted the new podcast, deep cover about an FBI agent who goes undercover with an outlaw motorcycle gang it's available wherever you get your podcasts. We're a program was produced today by Jane Marie and myself. Our staffer today's show includes Alex Bloomberg, Sarah Canuck, Seth land. We support like Robin Semyon was ship. Matt Tierney, Nancy Updike, and Diane Wu are senior producer for this episode is Julie Snyder musical from Jessica Hopper special thanks to Sherry Weaver Jr.

0 (57m 44s):
And Nelson and Greg Williams. Thanks. Especially to the McDonald and Miller families for letting us into their homes and telling their stories. This American life is to live in public radio stations by PRX, the public radio exchange. Thanks as always to our programs. Co-founder Mr. Tony Maltia, you know, to run a big radio station was not always the dream job that he wanted. No, no, no, no. His heart was elsewhere.

2 (58m 6s):
I tried out for cheerleader. I just couldn't do it. And I wanted to be a cheerleader. You know, I didn't get picked

0 (58m 12s):
I'm Eric Glass back next week with more stories, this American life.