Indeed (1s):
Support for This American Life comes from indeed. If you're hiring with indeed. You can post a job in minutes set up screener questions, then zero in on your short list of qualified candidates using an online dashboard find out more at indeed.com American

Rocket Mortgage (17s):
and from rocket mortgage by Quicken Loans making the home buying process work for you their team. Is there with award-winning client service and support get started at Rocket mortgage.com American Equal Housing lender licensed in all 50 states and MLS consumer access dot org number 30 30.

2 (39s):
Some kids are to rest up parking lot in the middle of August waiting to get back in the car Logan William and Kieran reporter approaches them. I couldn't help but notice that there's three of you guys so the first question that pops into my head is who's going to have to ride in the middle. Unfortunately me

1 (56s):
and how come you're the guy who has to write a

2 (59s):
to while Basically, I don't know they fight when they're in the middle. He doesn't even want to sit next to him out. Stop that

3 (1m 7s):
pinching your cheek right now

2 (1m 9s):
pressure pointing actually.

3 (1m 11s):
Did you feel like liked you this is going to be this is always going to be your job as you guys get older. You're always going to be the brother sitting in the middle brokering the peace.

2 (1m 20s):
Yeah, and basically, I'm the mediator.

3 (1m 23s):
How do you mean

2 (1m 25s):
I'm not sure what you're talking about.

3 (1m 28s):
How do you mean you're the

2 (1m 29s):
mediator? I'm actually not sure what mediator mean I just felt like saying it. I think I think it means the guy who keeps piece by keeping them from killing each other.

3 (1m 41s):
You can use a guy like you in the Middle East may be

1 (1m 44s):
one of little brothers signals for the

2 (1m 45s):
microphone get it Middle East. Because he didn't know and he's in and he get it. No least

1 (2m 3s):
there's nothing particularly notable about this rest. Stop is one of thousands all over the country kind of place where you'd stop for 10 minutes on a holiday weekend run inside and use the restroom by a burger or coffee head back out on the road. But if you stayed for more than 10 minutes might end up talking to one of these kids what it one of the couples who are dropping off children at College like this reporter did

3 (2m 22s):
last kid off to school. So now we're the new empty nesters right know. How do you feel about that? I'm cooking things that I've never tried anything that I've never tried

1 (2m 32s):
some folks on the way back from a family reunions might complain about the

3 (2m 35s):
traffic suddenly a clown truck filled with clowns cut us off.

1 (2m 40s):
There's this guy his entertainment on his weekly four-hour drive isn't the radio or the CD player.

3 (2m 46s):
Well truthfully. So none of the Police folk out there listening. I usually read the newspaper on the way up or a book. Are you kidding me on the way

2 (2m 54s):
up and you've been doing it for six or seven years and you've not had an accident. No, it seems to me to be pure luck.

1 (3m 5s):
Is it family driving six hours to visit the dad in prison a young couple looking for a place to have your wedding two brothers on the way to compete in the rodeo the 16 year old standing inside the rest. Stop nursing a t taking a break from her own family. She's on an eight-hour car trip with her dad her grandma our sister and a couple of others she explains to a reporter.

2 (3m 23s):
Well, it's very noisy. You can say that because everybody's arguing or talking about sports. We were just having an argument on who's better Muhammad Ali or Mike Tyson and Mike Tyson want to

3 (3m 36s):
my dad's daily stop the car to argue and say no my Texans better. So it was just very hectic coincidentally the little later Mike

1 (3m 43s):
Tyson's name comes up again and conversation with prep cook named Ozzie works at the restaurant.

3 (3m 48s):
Sometimes you movie star I see find something person Mike Tyson. Thanks and was here.

2 (3m 54s):
He's got me was how you and me ice cream. Hello.

1 (3m 59s):
So I see Mario

3 (4m 2s):
Cuomo. I see this old lady who got a lot of plastic surgeries Joan Rivers. Yes. She was here today for Joan Rivers. The two

1 (4m 14s):
strangers can get her name across simply by saying the old lady who got a lot of plastic

3 (4m 19s):
surgery. Nine of us came to this rest stop the

1 (4m 28s):
tape recorders on a weekend in middle of August all the way back in 2009 Today Show is a rerun. It

3 (4m 34s):
was two weeks before Labor Day

1 (4m 36s):
time of year when over 10,000 people pass through this rest stop each day. We thought that for once we would not leave after just 10 minutes it stick around and find out who all these people are where they're going what they're thinking about

3 (4m 49s):
We Found Love Stories and hardcore

1 (4m 50s):
Partiers and inexplicably angry people and all kinds of others. We bring you those stories in the special hour of our show for this holiday weekend when so many of us are on the road WBEZ Chicago, it's This American Life. I'm Ira Glass stay with us. The name of this particular rest. Stop is the platter kill Travel Plaza. So in the New York Thruway I-87 about an hour and a half north of New York City on the Northbound side of the highway. It's shiny and recently renovated with five restaurants in the food court. Nathan's Hot Dog Arthur Treacher's Fish and Chips Roy Rogers Canadian sandwich shop called brioche to array the Starbucks plus a travel mart that sells sodas and chips and gum stuff like that all these concessions in the cleaning crews and everything else are run by a company called HMS host which does this kind of thing in airports and travel plazas across the country.

1 (5m 47s):
They have 120 employees here and a half dozen managers and a general manager.

3 (5m 51s):
I think we have a very strong weekend as we get into the end of summer.

1 (5m 55s):
This is the general manager Robert Wood all friendly upbeat guy who carries a folded piece of paper that he pulls out and unfolds and refers to constantly through the day which has a list of sales figures. For every half hour of the day,

3 (6m 8s):
it's all it is simply is is it's my half hour reports of last year on this day so I can compare my sales the last year and see where we're at. And we do it usually like 11 o'clock and then every hour or so, we take a quick reading to see where we're at and explain when is when is the crazy time today? It'll be probably from like 12 o'clock till 7 o'clock very solid and steady and then tomorrow morning it will pick up again and I think of this as we're getting to the end of summer, there's a big race in Saratoga this week people have booked their rooms for like George and it's the end of summer people want to go and go on vacation. So I think we're gonna have a good weekend.

1 (6m 42s):
We did our taping on Friday and Saturday two weeks before Labor Day because those are the biggest days in the biggest month here in August the rest that makes a fourth of its money for the whole year and it's crucially Robert makes his goals this weekend because it's built into the rest up business that there are a couple months every year when he just breaks even or loses money. Also he wants to do better than his rival his rival a rest stop in Maine. And by canon in d to g

3 (7m 8s):
and a buck North usually and I are neck and neck and we never place any Wagers, but you know their Red Sox fans were Yankee fans and we go back and forth on that as well as discussing who's going to have the record sales for the day who won last weekend Andy Andy beat me read like a lobster if you want is that's what I told me both days, but I think I'm gonna get it back this weekend. So I hope this week. We just the Yankees sweep the Red Sox and then on he'll be really quiet.

1 (7m 36s):
Robert was fully staffed for the rash. He had his best cashiers on and now just needed the crowds Big Summer Weekend

3 (7m 43s):
crowds.

1 (7m 53s):
Because this particular rest stop has a couple years ago. I came here on the way to a wedding and I noticed that a couple of college students working at the Starbucks. We're speaking polish when I asked they said yeah, they were from Poland here for the summer on a special Visa program called the J1 program where they live in the United States and work for three months at the rest stop and then get to travel for a month in America before flying home and it seemed like such a crazy thing to fly all the way to America and then be stuck behind a counter in the middle of nowhere for the summer. I wondered if they felt cheated. I wanted to come back and find out

2 (8m 27s):
I'm Sandy and I'm from Taiwan and I work at Starbucks in Practical Travel Plaza.

1 (8m 33s):
There are no post students is summer. It's mostly Taiwanese and ukrainians working in pie to kill Sandy's name back home is muchacho. She's a college junior an English major. This is your second year during the summer work program last year. She was one of hundreds of foreign students who got jobs at Cedar Point Amusement Park and send Scale heiio, but this year she wanted to see a different part of the country and signed up for this location because of two magic words, New York.

2 (8m 57s):
I love New York last year. I went to New York City just three days. So let's time. I want to stay in New York City more

1 (9m 6s):
and then when you got here, were you surprised how far it was from New York City?

2 (9m 11s):
Yes, very surprised. Yeah. So actually I will later regret about I choose to express. Yeah.

1 (9m 19s):
She did the rest up wasn't in New York City. She's thought it would be a little closer and easier to get to without a car. Everything's a hassle. So she hasn't seen New York at all this summer the only place she's gone to some outlet stores when she's not at work. She hangs around the apartment with five other students all women who came over from Asia this summer to work at the rest stop

2 (9m 39s):
when we have day off. We will go to the supermarket to buy grocery. Yeah. It did maybe go to go. Do restaurant to eat something?

1 (9m 52s):
What's the best thing that's happened this summer on your

2 (9m 54s):
trip this summer so far I didn't. I didn't mad happiness thing in this trip so far. No

1 (10m 7s):
wait, you haven't had much that's been so good this

2 (10m 10s):
trip know so far

1 (10m 13s):
this seemed frankly a little sad a bunch of students quietly tolerating their Summers counting the days that they could finally travel the country cooking food. They don't eat like hamburgers and drinks they'd never heard of before arriving here like Frappuccinos all for people who have cars at a place that's all about cars on the side of the highway, but without cars of their own I feel bad for them. And then I started talking to the Ukrainian students. And how's it going?

2 (10m 40s):
Very good. I think that I really I really get a very big huge experience here because I like this place and I want to come back here. It's really it's really true. I'm happy that I'm here.

1 (10m 57s):
You've gained you to Casa goes by the name Jane or Angelina here in the states. He's 18 and during her junior year of college. It's her first time away so long for my parents and she misses him terribly, but it's also very exciting. She says for the first week or two and pi to kill she and the other ukrainians felt stranded same as the girls from Taiwan and Hong Kong felt

2 (11m 16s):
because there we don't have a car we can drive we just can't take a bath. So that's why but then we find our friends that like when we have a day off they always can take us like all the guys together. We will show you a beautiful places when we have a day off. We're always go to somewhere with we never see it home.

1 (11m 38s):
What happened is that the ukrainians befriended a couple of the American teenagers who work at the rest stop and those teenagers introduce them to other young people. And before they knew it they had rides to the mall to Six Flags amusement park to New York City.

3 (11m 51s):
My name is adalind heat on I'm 19. I work at Roy Rogers

1 (11m 54s):
Adelaide is a big cheerful fun-loving guy and probably the American who's gotten closest to the ukrainians. They do years of working at The Royale. Jews at the rest stop be seeing lots of foreign students come

3 (12m 3s):
through. I think this group is definitely by far my favorite why I felt like the other girls before we you know, I've got attached to them but this group I think it's in summoning. I'm in college and during college and we drink and I drink and they drink and it's a fun experience. I just recently got my license about two years ago actually year and a half ago before that was driving illegally. So I really couldn't drive, you know all over the place. But now that I got my license so like yeah, I'm driving everywhere. So I hang out with them and take them shopping we go at night because like swimming at this Lake trespassing who cares, uh, just having a good time. We're young the cops showed up one time. We had alcohol on us.

3 (12m 43s):
It was pretty bad story

1 (12m 45s):
for while he says he was going over to the apartment three times a week Fridays Saturdays and Wednesdays for parties parties. He taught them how to throw here's some one of his students in this matter a turmoil of and the Ukrainian.

3 (12m 59s):
What's your favorite thing that you've done so far? Since you've been here favorite thing. Probably the parties parties that a lot different than our country. If you want to have parties, we just go to the club in our country in you can go to the club love music and

1 (13m 15s):
stuff. You know, but

3 (13m 17s):
since we came here we get to know other Americans and they said let's have a party. Well, okay, let's go to the club. Why did glum let's do it at home. Okay. Got it home. They showed us games. They play beer pong introducing to my beer funnel. They never seen that before. We show them flip cup, you know, we should've had to play flip cup and I don't even have that is really like, it's a good buzz buzz Gutter and is fun a lot of people play. So it's really fun and you just have beer pong back in Ukraine. No, I never knew. Will you be taking that back to show your friends back home? Oh, yeah, we even want to buy beer pong table, you know special for me.

3 (14m 3s):
I'm not sure the caught a beer pong table. They're pretty good for not knowing what beer pong is. Like we just introduced them to be a long two months ago and yet they're better than me. So yeah, we actually have chant-like tournaments going on sometimes and the ukrainians end up being on top most of the time.

2 (14m 19s):
Yeah. It's impossible to drink so much as Americans to do Americans really drink very

1 (14m 25s):
much. This is Dasha another 19 year old from Ukraine. She said most of the parties here in America and their apartment or out by the lake wait until dawn at 6 a.m. 7

2 (14m 35s):
a.m. And then with the most fun is seen when you walk from 9 a.m. And you don't sleep at all. I one day. I just said thirty minutes. I woke up and went

1 (14m 46s):
to work. That was the most

2 (14m 48s):
fun. Yeah, as for me. I was a dinette

1 (14m 53s):
book fortunately. She works at a Starbucks platica. Rest stop is employed foreign students for nearly a decade. They're hard workers and easier to schedule in two shifts in American teenagers who are always needing time off for family vacations and sports practice and other activities as a group in the summer and in smaller groups in the winter and spring and the particle rest stop is a close-knit and of place that people cry when they leave when the managers told me how she still emails kids from Brazil and Peru who worked here years ago. At least one marriage is come out of this between an American worker and a Bulgarian girl who all the managers of the rest up agreed that they like the ukrainians the good kids, but the ukrainians or the rowdiest group with the most issues.

1 (15m 33s):
They have ever had hands down probably because the ukrainians are the first group that were friends back in their home country. They came to Quantico for summer Adventure. They're having too much fun when manager told me fireworks after 2 a.m. Find some neighbors the boys have come out a few times because of the noise. Robert general manager has no idea where he's going to find them housing if their landlord to fix them.

3 (15m 56s):
It's been a little bit of a rough summer with them. They're enjoying their college kids. And I think the thing is they forget that they're not living in the dorms. They live in an apartment complex with his families and kids and little kids and they just have to be more respectful at times. It's not like we don't want them to have a good time. It's just you got to make sure you draw the line someplace and say okay, you know, maybe one o'clock is late enough and you know are the people are going to work because it's Tuesday and he just got to kind of Be good neighbors as it turned out everything came to a head the night

1 (16m 27s):
before we arrived to record with an all-night party that Adelaide says was there craziest ever a party that was not thrown by the ukrainians. It was the very first party thrown by the girls from Taiwan total turnaround for them. And it says before this he in the ukrainians had only invited them to one party

3 (16m 45s):
and they really don't drink so they got drunk off a couple beers. And we just you know, the kind of hangs we just didn't like them anymore.

1 (16m 52s):
But now they threw this party a goodbye party for one of the girls who was leaving early and they party with the best of them everybody dancing and making noise after the second be around. There was a late night beer fight with people pouring their drinks on each other as usual all this bothering the neighbors

3 (17m 8s):
then what was the complaint to the landlord? Yeah. The landlord doesn't like me or my other friends hanging around there. He actually refers to me as a big crazy Mexican that walks around but so I don't know. I don't think I'm a bit crazy Mexican at all. I'm a gentle giant really and so then Robert had to talk with everybody. Yeah, he had a talk with everybody and it's kind of time to play the heavy-handed dad and just to make sure that they get the full message that this can't go on

2 (17m 36s):
man. It shouldn't have any more bodies here. We should be quiet because if there will be one more body they will send us home. They will like break our Checked with Plaza and then there will be no more students in posited the next year.

1 (17m 53s):
And what do you think of that? I don't know just

2 (17m 58s):
I don't really care if they will have any other students next summer

1 (18m 3s):
because I won't be there American kids also got a warning from their boss again. Here's out

3 (18m 9s):
of it. Yeah, just to stop going over there the landlords and then want me on his property. He sees me or my car is getting towed at my expense. I'm going to get you no charge for trespassing. And so what are you gonna do? Well, I'll probably still go over. There's really nothing. I mean if they say anything I'll just be like, okay, I won't happen again officer. And of course it'll happen again, but And do you worry that like you could get the ukrainians and trouble in a way that they've got sent back early. I hope not but if they do a song a good time and I told them if anything happens, you know, I'm deeply sorry, but whatever happens happens is nothing we can do and that everybody says

1 (18m 54s):
is the last big party of the year, but no matter the still a great summer. Hey Steve, can you if she ever felt jealous of all the Travelers she saw pass through the rest stop people on the way to vacations while she was stuck working and she said never she's come so far to get

3 (19m 9s):
here Vic if they should be jealous of me because I'm here.

2 (19m 14s):
Inside the rest stop right? When you enter the lobby between the bathroom in the food court is this room full of racks of brochures

1 (19m 37s):
Lisa Pollock is one of the gang of 9 reporters that we had a plan to kill,

2 (19m 41s):
you know this brochure as you'll see in the lobby of a discount hotel the ones advertising local attractions that negatively no matter where in the country you are include a water park and an underground Cavern to her. It's that floor to ceiling. This is a New York state information center. It confusingly is run not by New York state by a private company that charges businesses to display their pamphlets here. The manager of the center is a guy named Lenny wheat he also stands behind a counter offering travel advice to the Lost. When I talked to Lenny he gets this look on his face almost like he feels a little sorry for me because I think I'm in the middle of nowhere and he thinks I have no idea what I'm missing

3 (20m 21s):
right here at the next exit alone. You have best rock climbing in the country here. Seriously. Yeah, it's Napa Valley the East around here. Yeah, we have the oldest Vineyard is the oldest Winery one of the best wineries. You have the best hotel resort spa in the United States in the area here to

2 (20m 39s):
wait. How do you know it's the best

3 (20m 41s):
in that's according to mobile travel guide and Day Spa magazine got one of the best dude ranches in the country up here by new Paul's to yes Rocking Horse Ranch Resort. Yeah, great place to take a family

2 (20m 54s):
by the time Lenny tells me about something called the Catamount Adventure Park largest Adventure Park in North America according to the

3 (21m 1s):
brochure. There's a hundred and twenty things to do there. I am

2 (21m 4s):
so overwhelmed by superlatives that I just take his word for it Lenny knows this area. He's a local lives eight. It's a way and used to drive for a messenger service. So he's an expert at getting directions. I found it especially impressive when he told Travelers the exact number of miles between Highway exits by memory, but Lenny actually ended up in this job by accident. His neighbor used to work here and Lenny would visit him from time to time to help

3 (21m 29s):
out and he was feeling ill one day and I was like, you know, he's just he's think you can stay here and do this and I'm

1 (21m 34s):
like sure why not. I mean, I know my way around I know the road so

3 (21m 39s):
and you know, he had some issues and stuff diabetes and stuff and wound up taking time out and stuff. You recently passed away and stuff. So but you know kind of like

1 (21m 49s):
sometimes you feel like what you've done in your life is you know, and it comes together that's like you were meant to do something, you know.

2 (21m 56s):
So you're saying it kind of seemed like it was meant to be

3 (21m 59s):
that's sometimes feels that

2 (22m 0s):
way I hung out with Lenny for a couple hours. I saw him cheerfully field dozens of information requests everything from where to buy beer. No, we're at the rest stop but try New Paltz. There's a lot of college kids there to how to get to Maryland crucial First Step turn around Maryland is south of here. You were headed north when any one wanders into browse Lenny pounces.

3 (22m 24s):
What's your destination of today

2 (22m 25s):
Lake George? The guy

3 (22m 26s):
says? Okay. I can I get you anything for Lake George. We just got in the fall events guide to anything for Washington County on the other side of the lake anything on hiking waterways whitewater rafting waterways. Okay,

2 (22m 43s):
even though all these places are paying to advertise here Lenny gets genuinely excited when he's pitching them if he doesn't believe the platica rest stop is the gateway to Vacation gold. He sure fooled me

3 (22m 55s):
and if you didn't know it In Cairo, there's a bear statues all around the village and there's a treasure hunt going on with that. Okay,

1 (23m 3s):
here's another one and that is also the best concert facility in the world

3 (23m 7s):
Loggins and Messina is playing the night Loggins and Messina the scene of the the comedian

1 (23m 13s):
now no and one more

3 (23m 15s):
and the world's largest Kaleidoscope their two

2 (23m 19s):
at a time when people plan their trips on computers and drive to them using GPS. It's a little surprising that a place like this even exists. I actually watched let me pull out a magnifying glass for a guy having trouble seeing a map by the time I left Lenny had me almost convinced that what he has to offer is better than the

3 (23m 36s):
internet you can see here in 10-15 minutes flip through the pages and seen most everything every County might have to offer you, you know, you know how long it would take you to find all that on the internet and only turn to page you got shop and you turn to page you got your man.

1 (23m 51s):
You're fishing your your antiquing, you

3 (23m 53s):
know. How you doing guys? Where you going to You know, you don't go on a long

1 (24m 3s):
car trip with strangers. Usually you're with people who you know, really really well and being confined in the car together in a tiny space staring ahead at the road is one of the nicest places to talk have a long talk one woman told us that she actually plans things to discuss with her husband and her kids when she knows that the going to be in the car for hours another woman that this mom named Elizabeth McMahon was driving from DC to Albany with a nine-year-old. It's a long drive and the son decided that he was going to use the time to get to the bottom of some things.

2 (24m 36s):
He's been on this whole q a thing where Mom who do you like better? You know your sister your brother your Uncle Jimmy your uncle Chad or who do you know? How long would you cry if I died or you know, would you rather be married your boyfriend or to Daddy who's we're divorced? Yeah, it's been kind of weird so that that stimulate some conversation. You just asked for example mom

3 (25m 1s):
You really Santa Claus? The reporter who talked to that

1 (25m 5s):
one was Jonathan Goldstein. He mostly stationed himself outside the rest stop in the parking lot by the picnic benches. Somehow everybody Jonathan talked to seemed to be enjoying their time on the road to the max. Stan is sitting on the bench in front of the parking lot. Unlike everyone else. You see people looking to eat looking to get to a washroom Stan looks perfectly at home smoking a cigar like he's got the World on a

3 (25m 32s):
String like hanging out at a rest.

1 (25m 34s):
Stop is the best part of any

3 (25m 35s):
vacation. He's waiting for his girlfriend who he likes to call the war department and by which you mean,

1 (25m 43s):
it's my girlfriend the war department or the wife is the war department get what it baby. Let's go baby, you know as always

2 (25m 51s):
The sky is very clear and blue today. That's not

1 (25m 53s):
blue. It's not blow that clear.

3 (25m 57s):
Have you guys been arguing a lot in the car?

1 (25m 58s):
We never argue. She told me say that

2 (26m 2s):
this is me. See this underneath. Um Yes, dear. Yes. Yeah, that's me right there

3 (26m 14s):
and yet in spite of stands take on

1 (26m 15s):
couplehood one, perhaps modeled on Warner Brother cartoons of the 50s. It looks like there's still a never-ending line of people all too eager to sign up case in point a group of Four Women come striding across the parking

3 (26m 29s):
lot in the midst of a bachelorette party. It's a surprise because it's

2 (26m 34s):
a bachelorette party. We're taking her away somewhere. She's never been before.

3 (26m 38s):
And how do you feel about

2 (26m 39s):
that? I feel like I need to know where I'm going but it didn't

3 (26m 44s):
even know in what direction you're heading north and that's it. That's all you know.

2 (26m 50s):
Well, the only thing I know is that I need flip-flops a whistle and something else. Yeah put socks and whistle

3 (26m 58s):
now is that does that really come into play or are you just messing with her mind at this point

2 (27m 2s):
important? It's very important to the whole evening

3 (27m 5s):
flip-flops and a whistle. I'm thinking some clothes and comfortable clothes. All right. Now I'm going to ask you guys. I mean, I'll ask you to step over there. I'm going to ask these guys what they got planned and I won't I won't tell anything about the time this airs it will make it different. So you're just going to go stand over there. I'm sorry. I did because now I'm going to get this scoop. All right, just crowd in here. All right, so flip-flops flip-flops and whistle. What's that all

2 (27m 30s):
about? Oh crap, it's complete crap. We're making the whole thing

3 (27m 33s):
up. My name is Jack man. And where you coming from? I'm coming from Boston. Heading to West Virginia. What's your last name? I'm getting into that right now. No last names on this. I've been drinking. As it turns out jack is not the one

1 (27m 58s):
driving. He's traveling with a couple friends back from mother Boston where he's dropped off his four-year-old who he spent the summer with in West Virginia.

3 (28m 8s):
Jack has four kids in three different states. Each of their names are tattooed across his upper. Torso. Jack is on his way

1 (28m 15s):
home get

3 (28m 17s):
lost couple times, you know, so I took was like 12 hours. So how long was he with you probably three four months and you only get to see him during the summer. I know I get them for Christmas, you know, you know how the women are they don't want to pay for all the Christmas presents and stuff. You know, I mean they make sure they all make sure the kids are with me for Christmas and you saw you saw his mom to when you pick him up and drop him off. Oh, yeah. I still got the big red marks on my back where she tried to beat me up. Are you kidding? Nah, man, I'm for real. Hey, don't bring you new girlfriend to your ex-wife's house. That's all I got to say that baby's mama drama stuff, you know see that.

3 (28m 60s):
She's on crutches and she broke her leg few weeks ago. I was trying to beat me up with her crutches. Yeah, see your new girlfriend's in the car with you now. Yeah, man. Yes, that's a pretty blond over there in that black car. You walk over there you'd be surprised though. Her and my buddy driving. We call him Hot Wheels. He's handicapped kid in the wheelchair. So, you know, I mean when nicknames ass Hot Wheels

1 (29m 25s):
I walk across the parking lot to a big black Rusty car

3 (29m 29s):
jack told me they call you Hot Wheels. Yeah, he's always wheelchair

1 (29m 35s):
tore my foot off. How did that happen car crash back in the back in 2006? It'll all about a hundred. What do you expect you? Don't expect to walk away from something like that.

3 (29m 51s):
And you are you're in the back seat here Chrissy. You're also from West Virginia. Yes. And now how old are you guys

1 (29m 58s):
21 and Chrissy 24

3 (30m 2s):
you do do much traveling.

2 (30m 3s):
No, not at all. I'm a stay-at-home mom. So,

3 (30m 8s):
how old are your kids?

2 (30m 10s):
I have one he's not.

3 (30m 13s):
So you don't get a chance to travel very much

2 (30m 16s):
right? It's been a long trip.

3 (30m 18s):
Is this the furthest you've been? Yes.

2 (30m 22s):
Went to New Jersey once before, but other than that, this is definitely in the farthest

3 (30m 27s):
longest. Have you been in a

1 (30m 30s):
lot of like parking lots like this? A lot of rest stops?

2 (30m 33s):
Actually. No, I think this is probably the first like We're stopped of ever come to

1 (30m 40s):
not in your life.

2 (30m 41s):
Yes. Really? Yes, I don't just live in West Virginia. I live in West Virginia and I don't ever go anywhere.

1 (31m 3s):
Coming up love in the middle of the night and much more that's in a minute from Chicago public radio when our program

2 (31m 12s):
continues.

Indeed (31m 14s):
Support for This American Life comes from indeed. The next time you're hiring indeed can help get you to your shortlist of candidates fast. You can post a job in minutes set up screener questions, then zero in on qualified candidates and when you need to accelerate your results This American Life listeners can try indeed sponsored jobs for free visit indeed.com American terms conditions and quality standards apply

Rocket Mortgage (31m 41s):
and from rocket mortgage by Quicken Loans providing you with an award winning team by your side through the mortgage process. Their goal is to make the home buying process smoother for you with a history of Industry leading online lending technology developed in Detroit rocket mortgage is changing the game visit rocket mortgage.com American Equal Housing lender licensed in all 50 states and MLS consumer access dot org number 30 30 rocket mortgage by Quicken Loans push-button get mortgage.

2 (32m 14s):
This American Life Myra glass it going to show of course. We choose a theme bring you different kinds of stories on that theme Today's Show rest stop nine of us stayed for two days in the middle of August at the Practical Travel Plaza on the Northbound side of I-87 in New York State.

1 (32m 31s):
This is back in 2009 that we did this today shows a rerun we were talking with the people passing through most of them on vacation. And of course with the people who stay at the rest stop

3 (32m 40s):
working. I'm still waiting for Andy's report back. Let me see if you send anything back three o'clock Friday

1 (32m 47s):
Robert general manager the rest stop checks his BlackBerry for an email from his rival in Maine and E to G. New 23 was supposed to be some of the busiest hours of the year for Robert, but he does not look happy. He's not hitting the half hourly goals on that piece of paper that he carries around

3 (33m 4s):
with him, but I am down a bunch from last year about 3,300 dollars behind last year in 600 Grand last. Which is not a normal thing. So it's a little cause for concern right now. So right now we're not sure why there doesn't seem to be a lot of traffic problems. We can make it up in an hour and a half. We could make it all back and be right where we were supposed to be. So

1 (33m 29s):
every couple hours when I check with Robert. This is what he says we can still make it up the rush still can come Robert is optimistic. Mostly

3 (33m 40s):
I wonder how it's going to mean I haven't emailed and yet but I'm afraid to email any right now. I'm sure it's very going very well, but I mean, that's not it it's a good thing. I've heard back from Andy now it's trying to get a little overcast outside. So what are you wishing for rain here

1 (33m 59s):
actually tells me brain isn't always bad.

3 (34m 1s):
If it rains at the right time people get back up in traffic then they gotta stop and now they've been in traffic a little longer. So perfect time rain storms will be nice and maybe not too hard. I think that'll be good because people will get other car and walking. Light rain, but they don't want to walk in a downpour with the downpour. They don't come out of the car. We'll keep our fingers crossed look a lot of night to go. So fingers crossed. You're killing me man within 25 minutes the skies literally black it.

1 (34m 33s):
And it is the wrong kind of rain the kind that includes tornado warnings one County over the kind where you do not run from your car across the parking lot to buy a nice sandwich or a hot coffee from Robert the kind that I figured we'd just please one person on this Earth and that person was main I would say probably by the by his last email. We're probably rate in the same boat right in the same rate in the same area. That is gentlemen Andy Tucci Roberts rival general manager of the Kennebunkport travel plazas and his day actually wasn't going great either yet. Yeah. I just shot him an email letting them know that we you know, we'd be we'd be busy later on after after the Red Sox game.

1 (35m 14s):
Oh I see. Oh you think you can make it up later? I think so, they'll be a lot of people on the road later on celebrating. Well least Boston fans will be celebrating huh celebrating absolutely now later on. Does he have anything going on? You know, I don't I don't really believe he has a whole lot. Going on down there tonight, you know the Yankees being on the road. So it's looking pretty bad for him. I would say

2 (35m 39s):
so.

1 (35m 48s):
At one point finally one of the concession stands Nathan's Hot Dog does get a real Rush with a line that extends to the middle of the

3 (35m 54s):
food court. This is where speed becomes crucial

1 (35m 58s):
property says that if people walk into the rest stop and see how line if the line doesn't seem like it's moving the walk out without buying so his staff has to pour it on during the rush. They're going to make their goals. And of course beat Maine Shawn call went behind the Nathan's counter to watch the

3 (36m 14s):
action every now and then during the

1 (36m 16s):
rush Nathan's runs out of food.

3 (36m 18s):
Wow, there's only one corn dog Heather Rafferty's working one of three cash registers one corn dog is a problem

1 (36m 24s):
since a customer's been waiting a long time for to they

3 (36m 27s):
prepare as well as they can here, but there's only so much

1 (36m 30s):
food. You can cook in

3 (36m 31s):
advance Heather has to grab parts of other people's orders just to keep the flow going.

2 (36m 35s):
I'm taking one of your watch fries.

3 (36m 38s):
They were waiting another thing. It's like putting together a puzzle where a

1 (36m 41s):
lot of the pieces are exactly the same shape and to be easy if it

3 (36m 45s):
so hard people are fanatical about Nathan's the workers joke about it. They feel like saying, you know, Roy

1 (36m 52s):
Rogers has food too.

3 (36m 54s):
Luckily Heather's break is eminent four minutes for long minutes later. She clocks out and

1 (37m 2s):
snakes through the Maisie hallway in the back on our way out of the back door for a smoke. She walks up to another worker and gives him a quick passing smooch, which made me feel like I was really behind the scenes. Alex is Heather's boyfriend about four months ago. They had a kid a little boy I ask what it's like to live and work together. But Heather says they don't she lives with her parents right now and the baby

2 (37m 25s):
and Alex lives with his family. We're still together definitely but we plan on moving in together at some point. It's just that right now money's tie. And this was kind of as much as I love my son. He was kind of like a surprise. So yeah, so but eventually down the road me and Alex will move in with each other.

3 (37m 41s):
and you thinking getting married and

2 (37m 44s):
I'm hoping so we've been together for two years now. So I'm definitely considering it but he's got he's 20 years old. He just turned 20 in June so he's kind of still young so and how old are you? I'm 21

1 (37m 57s):
Heather and Alex are a mixed couple. She works at Nathan's he works at brioche dough re the pastry and sandwich shop at the rest stop. This has led to a little inter restaurant tension in the relationship.

2 (38m 8s):
He's like, well, I worked this shift unlike. Well, I worked this shift and it was busy like this and he's like, well, it was like this. So, you know, we ended abates

3 (38m 15s):
over who is more

2 (38m 16s):
busy. Yeah, and which ones more crazier which one's more harder.

1 (38m 19s):
So I've not been privy to these debates and I don't work at the rest stop but no one's fanatical about brioche dough Ray. Nathan's is way harder. Across the lobby all the way across on the other side from Nathan's over in the travel mart another one of our reporting team Gregory Warner was there when cashier Clara Dragon started her shift first thing Clara doesn't her shift before she Rings up to sail or even opens the register. She picks up a three-foot cardboard display of Purell hand sanitizer and sets it down on one side of the cashier's counter. It's a simple maneuver that blocks and redirects the flow of customers without it.

1 (39m 0s):
She'd get bombarded from both

3 (39m 1s):
sides because

2 (39m 3s):
they'll come over here ahead of the other people and it causes an argument so by barricade it so that they know they got to go over there

3 (39m 11s):
this stack of 2-ounce Purell

2 (39m 14s):
keep them from standing here and cutting the people off. Everyone says, I'm crazy but I am I do it immediately when I come in Plus it saves arguments. You don't want to sit round them up, you know more than they already are

1 (39m 31s):
Clara grew up in a rough part of Astoria Queens and spent her youth staying out of the way of trouble apply to kill she's work. Nine years is waitress and then cashier.

2 (39m 41s):
I was a waitress in Bob's Big Boy and when they shut that down they open this and I jumped in here

3 (39m 50s):
so asked if she'd want to put Barack Obama and if she thinks is a good president was he

1 (39m 56s):
a tall guy with a sunburn and a pink polo shirt Wags a Butterfinger bar?

3 (40m 1s):
Ask her. She'll tell you you think Obama is going to give you free health care. If you think of deserve

1 (40m 5s):
it Clara looks up at the angry man. She wears bifocals and shimmery eyeshadow. She doesn't say anything. She just Smiles. It's a smile. So genuine that the man can't help himself. He smiles

3 (40m 19s):
back. Well, I don't like the

1 (40m 20s):
Democrats and Guy continues talking politics, but less belligerently. Ferret still doesn't say a word and by the time he collects his change. He's halfway apologizing Claire hasn't

3 (40m 31s):
spoken. You know what we were stuck in New York, man bad traffic. You have a good day scuse my language. That's an

2 (40m 40s):
example of what we deal with and you got a smile

3 (40m 45s):
that's an example of what you doing. Yeah

2 (40m 48s):
the time but

3 (40m 49s):
sometimes

2 (40m 52s):
there were battling the roads or this heat or traffic especially they're coming in fuming. They're even rough with their families, you know, so you just say, oh, I'm sorry, you know, I'm rushed. I rushed to get them out so that they don't have to be any longer than possible. You know, I only had one run in with someone a while back who got on my goat and I yelled back at him, which we're not supposed to do, but he just got me. Is doing a fax for a truck

1 (41m 26s):
driver. There's a fax machine under the cash

2 (41m 28s):
register and my head is down and all of a sudden I hear you're very rude. I picked my head up and he says you're very rude. He says you're doing whatever you're doing down. There is enough paying attention to me. I said I'm doing a fax for someone. It's important. No, it's not. He says I don't give a heck what you're doing down there. I'm going to report you. He says and it's going to make my day. I couldn't take it. I says you do that if it makes you happy.

1 (41m 57s):
That's it. That's the one time she yelled at a

3 (41m 60s):
customer. You have a good night.

1 (42m 4s):
After midnight only a few businesses are still left open in the rest stop. There's a gate blocking that room with all the New York State pamphlets of but a promotional video plays inside in the room behind the gate all night

3 (42m 18s):
long

1 (42m 24s):
two people from our team of reporters Jay Allison Nancy uptick stayed up for the midnight to 8:00 a.m. Shift. Here's Nancy first

2 (42m 32s):
between midnight and 8 a.m. The first question isn't where

3 (42m 35s):
you going, but why

2 (42m 37s):
why are you awake at a rest? Stop when

3 (42m 40s):
it's 2 a.m. Or even what for am I believe? Yeah why I'm in the morning so

2 (42m 47s):
notice they're both laughing. It's funny. But seriously is this where you intended to be at 2 a.m.

3 (42m 54s):
We had no idea where time we would be here actually didn't make any any plans. Actually we figured we would drive until we got tired and then hopefully find the

2 (43m 3s):
place we'll call those. People the non planners and then there are the

3 (43m 7s):
planners. That's the way my son like to dry with no a lot of traffic on the road. So that's why we are on the road this time in the morning and then they're the people Jays talking to the bad planners. Over at one of the

1 (43m 23s):
tables Sebastian and John are getting their last hot meal before they switched to granola. They're headed into the Adirondacks to start hiking at dawn and they're in a good mood laughing a lot and talking maybe a little nervously about bears

3 (43m 40s):
bear Bell. I'm all right dinner bell for them. I'm here. Are you worried about bears? Well, they say the pretty active up there. So they shoot them all if she them all over especially when you have a food around you. They come visit you definitely yeah. Watch out for that can't keep no food. I reminds me. I forgot the bear canister at home wait, so you forgot to bring the thing that you put the food in the kitchen. Yeah, you put it as a bear canister, you put the all your food in anything with odors and seal it up and you stick it like about a hundred yards from your 10. It's a good idea.

3 (44m 20s):
Where is that in your apartment? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah

1 (44m 26s):
out in the parking lot. Tony and Debbie Longo are lost and it's Tony's fault. The thing about Tony is he's not supposed to get lost. Is it New York City homicide detective. I don't know how I missed that exit.

3 (44m 39s):
I don't know how I missed it big sign Tappan Zee Bridge, you know, yeah, there was when you're a cop you're not supposed to make mistaken. That is that's the direction. The direction thing has to be down pat. You know, I lost control.

2 (44m 51s):
I really I hate my whole family right now. We

3 (44m 54s):
want to leave in the morning. God forbid. We live in the morning next time you're late.

2 (44m 58s):
The

3 (44m 58s):
mall really in the morning.

1 (45m 3s):
It's after 3:00 in the morning and they've been lost for hours and Debbie Longo says she's not a happy camper, but you can tell she is

2 (45m 13s):
still soft serve and it's not taking my money.

3 (45m 17s):
I don't care anymore. I don't care. I'm gonna get fat and I don't care. I'm going to blow up like a balloon. I'm gonna have a big fat wife. Yeah. That's okay. Okay always stay happy.

2 (45m 33s):
Is there some truism about if you want to test your relationship go on a long drive together? What I'm saying is I'm expecting a lot of grouchiness here at the rest. Stop during the graveyard shift scowls sniping Mutual recrimination instead. I keep seeing couple after a couple walk up to the glass doors of the rest stop and reach for each other's hands right before they walk through instinctively. Like here we go. You and me couples of every age 20s 40s 60s, what are your names at the data?

3 (46m 7s):
And I'm Peter it did to and Peter are on a five hour drive

2 (46m 11s):
to pick up their kids from summer camp their first time at camp in other words a parenting 101 trip an exciting long and happening at An Inconvenient time. But listen to them laughing

3 (46m 22s):
do the kids want to go or did you say you're going to maintain go?

2 (46m 32s):
And I would all that's left for college exactly for the same time. So

3 (46m 37s):
it works well free time for ourselves and they had free time for themselves.

2 (46m 45s):
It's at this point that I blurted out the most obvious and inappropriate

3 (46m 49s):
question. What did you do with your free time?

2 (46m 53s):
Which they handle admirably ready, you know heads time to

3 (46m 57s):
connect had some romantic dinners and you know spend time together.

2 (47m 4s):
When was the last time you had time to do that before

3 (47m 7s):
this 20 years ago?

2 (47m 17s):
And there's more giddiness inside the rest stop another couple Lisa and Marcus you see me give it a little kiss and tell him how cute he was when he walked in Lisa and Marcus as you can tell are in deep. They're looking at a map on the wall of this half-closed rest stop on their way up to Lake Champlain to go camping. It's the middle of the night. They've gotten lost already. Not sure where they're going to sleep. But the two of them cannot stop smiling I can feel and orphans radiating from them in waves. They met salsa dancing less than a year ago and love is making an ambitious.

3 (47m 50s):
We're planning on maybe moving to Argentina. And we start already dancing Tango here in Philadelphia. So we want to become professional tango dancers. And that's a joke. It's not

2 (48m 8s):
outside the rest stop Katarina and Johnny are sitting next to each other on a bench not a bench in a beautiful Park a bench looking out on a highway and a parking lot. Of course, they don't care. In fact, they seem not to have noticed at

3 (48m 21s):
all like Canada you're going to Montreal when we're coming from New York. We're going to

2 (48m 29s):
Johnny's finishing up his residency, but he's not sure he even wants to be a doctor 35 years old with more than $200,000 in school debt that he doesn't want to talk about that. He's on a road trip with his girl. He brushes off. My questions leans into the microphone and steers us back to what we should be talking

3 (48m 48s):
about. Love me tender love me true never let me go, but

2 (49m 3s):
even at a rest stop, that's fizzy with love. There is heartache as I'm standing outside a man asks what I'm doing, so I asked what he's doing we end up talking for a while. His name is Dan. He's driving back to Upstate New York after a day in New York

3 (49m 19s):
City spend some time with my boys. how old are they 19 and 20 my God 23

2 (49m 27s):
How often do you see them?

3 (49m 29s):
Not often enough? I'm trying to make it more regular this like just got divorced like like a year or so ago and so they are staying with their mom. So I'm staying seeing less than them. Try to get seemed like once a month. How's the divorce for them? We are I don't really know seems to be okay for them. You know, it's a little weird still but you know, we still try to do things together

2 (49m 52s):
you and your ex-wife in the

3 (49m 53s):
kids know I don't do anything things with her anymore last last year. My son's 18th birthday. We went skydiving together all four of you. Yeah, all four of us. Like she wanted her boyfriend to come and I was like, I actually called him and said don't come called him. Yeah call him left him a message very polite message and I was like Michael, please don't come, you know, you know him you have his number. Yeah. I'm um, yeah. It was a tough thing. She wanted him to come and like go on this my son's 18th birthday, and it was like really it was just too weird. It's a very weird thing, you know trying to be friends with your ex and then you can't really be friends. And then then you have so girlfriend and then just like it's a difficult thing.

3 (50m 38s):
You know, she didn't want me to go to the house to pick the boys up. And then you know and when we were having a good conversation and next week, you know, something like that comes up and you're like, you know, you have this thing you want to call that person and yell at them and talk to them about it, but you don't have that relationship anymore.

2 (50m 55s):
That's a hard moment when you realize right. We don't have that relationship anymore,

3 (51m 2s):
you know try to go to counseling and stuff and try to get her to come back. She didn't want to go to counseling she went with me one time, but then she she wouldn't stop seeing this guy other guys, she's sing. So, I mean that kind of I made her pay the copay and we're left with other guy Michael. Yeah. I had actually met him I had met him at a party and and her and him had become friends and they just became more and more, you know intimate and instead of trying to work stuff out with me. She was trying to work stuff out with him. So did you think about a lot?

3 (51m 42s):
beat myself up for you know, where did I go wrong as a father as a husband or whatever, you know, and I'm basically 45 years old and I figure half my life is over and I'm really trying to figure out what to do with the next half.

2 (51m 59s):
I know this is just a rest stop but really some kind of love force field is in effect here tonight because guess what Dan has a new girlfriend. She's at the rest stop with him just doesn't want to talk into a microphone. They met through a singles group and they've been together long enough that they've started meeting each other's kids still complicated, but wow,

1 (52m 20s):
it feels great.

3 (52m 21s):
I just told you - I don't know what I would do without something else in my life. I mean, it's just, you know, I found a woman that really loves me and I was like so over old by that, you know, it's just it's a miracle. Yeah it is. I'm optimistic about the future very optimistic. In the parking lot when I first saw Stevie G from a

1 (52m 50s):
distance. I thought he was

3 (52m 51s):
naked. All right now, I'm Deke inking the muscles in my buttock.

1 (52m 56s):
Then he kicked one leg in the air above his head and I saw he was wearing little white gym

3 (53m 1s):
shoes. It opens up the Fountain of Youth in the front of the hip

1 (53m 4s):
joint. And then he jumped into a pool of light and I saw he actually had on some tiny black nylon shorts Stevie J teaches Bodywork Pilates yoga massage and such and he stopped at this rest stop to stretch and move. It's hard not to notice though that while Stevie is working out in the parking lot. He simultaneously smoking a hand rolled cigarette. It's what I am, you know, unfortunately, I'm polluting my lungs but

3 (53m 34s):
They're doing well. You know I clean them out on a daily basis. So how do you clean them out usually a mixture of running and steaming

1 (53m 43s):
and meditational breathing and not swallowing what I cough up. I always spit it out. You know, like I have a little cup I can spit out all the add-on never swallow

3 (53m 54s):
it our

1 (53m 55s):
conversation by the way is happening next to Stevie's vehicle, which figures largely in his life. It's an old yellow school bus he got up in Woodstock to start a volunteer service program picking up the drunk people. I going into the bars and finding the ones and say all right who looks really bombed, you know offer them a free ride home, but now Stevie G has a larger vision for the bus he wants to build a health center made of school

3 (54m 23s):
buses. Before he leaves the rest stop

1 (54m 27s):
Stevie G gets out a big foam roller and takes it to his favorite spot for a final stretch.

3 (54m 34s):
All right, we got all the all the big 18-wheeler trucks on one side. We got all the smaller cars over here on the other. We are on 87 highway. This is where I think it's the cleanest you just got to watch out to see if the dogs have been here about Kadabra

2 (54m 50s):
scoop that belly burn that jelly

3 (54m 52s):
America. You got to get off your

2 (54m 54s):
fat one and do

3 (54m 56s):
something

2 (54m 57s):
good something good like the solid oak

3 (54m 60s):
wood. Get out there and help others and especially help yourself to be your best so that you are not a cranky old full now we all got to pull up the

1 (55m 12s):
hill Stevie rolls all around the sidewalk with truckers looking down at him from their calves. He doesn't notice when he's all loosened up. He picks up his roller and heads back to his vehicle.

3 (55m 33s):
Take care. Easy. Stevie G puffs

1 (55m 36s):
up some phlegm spits it out and heads off /

3 (55m 39s):
Woodstock. It's morning English sparrows are congregating like crazy in the trees. Just outside the rest stop doors

1 (55m 58s):
standing out in the parking lot. Nine year old Brian belko looks kind of like a bird actually his eyes are bright. His arms are stiff at his side's and held out a bit like wings and when he speaks into the microphone he Bob's his head forward like he's pecking at

2 (56m 13s):
it. We're going fishing up in Swanton is

3 (56m 15s):
mine. Yeah. What are you gonna

2 (56m 17s):
catch bass pike? Equal perch. Well, it sounds like you've done this before. Yeah, I'm yet but the tradition started with my family starting starting with my

3 (56m 29s):
great-grandfather. Is that

2 (56m 31s):
right? My great-grandfather was a great fisherman. He really likes fishing Soul. So he went up to Lake Champlain and some of the cabins were built right over like the historic Battle fear-filled of the war in 1842 the Battle of Lake Champlain. You're a student. This is my first radio interview

3 (56m 56s):
ever. Really? Yep. You did

2 (56m 58s):
great. I know I'm really really excited

3 (57m 1s):
say goodbye. Have a great vacation legs. And we the new day here. We have

1 (57m 10s):
just a time for one final note before we go final tallies from the battle between the rest stops and practical and Main at the end of the afternoon after our two days in Plateau kill. I can report to you that business never really picked up for either rest. Stop and after two days on Saturday afternoon. Robert told me only at one consolation for the weekend. He beat Andy,

3 (57m 31s):
I'm the king for the day. I beat Andy and the Red Sox got smacked around and massacred by the Yankees. The unfortunate thing is being King for the day when you miss your sales by Seven Grand isn't so good. I means and everybody was down. So it was a bad day for everybody Main and he sent out a quick note not his numbers at all. But you know, we're ready for next weekend. Let's look at two more weekends ago. I still think they're coming is and in this business you got to be positive. When I left he was around 12 thousand dollars down for

1 (58m 4s):
two days seven or eight percent lower than where he needed to

3 (58m 6s):
be. But

1 (58m 9s):
all this rainy said could make a really beautiful leaves Upstate come the fall. A lot of people could get on the roads for that. Look those leaves he could still turn this around. Today's Show is recorded in 2009 in the years since Robert. The general manager has been promoted several times is now a senior director of motorways ever seeing travel plazas on the New York Thruway the Maine Turnpike and a few Starbucks and Massachusetts, which means of course that the competition between product Hill and Andy in Kennebunkport came to an end.

1 (58m 49s):
The rabbit says they do so argue about baseball. You can still find many wheat dispensing travel advice and Claire a dragon behind the register at particle though. They've stopped using J-1 visas to bring in foreign

3 (59m 0s):
students. You need a rest stop baby.

1 (59m 5s):
Well a program was produced today by Sean coal and myself with Alex blumberg jane-marie, Sarah Koenig Lisa Pollock was ship and Nancy Updike our senior producer for today's show is Julie Snyder additional production on today's rerun from Jessica Lawson, hop Catherine. Raimondo Stone Nelson, Matt. Tyranny special. Thanks today to Morgan Hook from former. Governor David Patterson's office with the New York State Thruway Authority and Sheila McGee at HMS host our website This American Life dot-org This American Life is to give it a public radio stations by PRX the public radio exchange for This American Life comes from Lagunitas. Beer Circus, wild Carnival entertainments live beer and fresh music benefiting local nonprofits. The circus stops in Seattle Chicago and Petaluma, California tickets at Lagunitas.com.

1 (59m 51s):
/ Beer Circus see things you can't unsee. Thanks as always to our programs co-founder. Mr. Troy Melody who says do not believe his reputation. Do not believe what people say about him. It's not true.

3 (1h 0m 3s):
I don't think I'm a bit crazy mixing at all. I'm a gentle giant really

1 (1h 0m 7s):
I'm Eric Glass back next week with more stories of This American

3 (1h 0m 10s):
Life.

1 (1h 0m 24s):
Next week on the podcast At This American Life Starly and Robin were getting to be friends. But you know how it is. People are busy. So little time to talk explain your past. So Robin switch to plan B. Okay. She made sterli a

2 (1h 0m 39s):
tape. What I'm going to do for you today is an ex-boyfriend Montage with a

1 (1h 0m 43s):
two story about plan B's of All Sorts away is that plans be next week on the podcast when your local public radio station

2 (1h 0m 52s):
is like a buzzword like sex or deception or a conspiracy to try to keep you interested even though they won't