1 (1s):
Support for This American Life comes from Capital One Capital one's banking app lets you manage your money anytime anywhere Capital One. This is banking reimagined. What's in your wallet Capital One and a From WBZ Chicago, it's This American Life. I'm Ira Glass. Okay, so we're going through the gate here into

2 (21s):
the Park. Yeah, we're going this is this is our morning this the morning walk into the park to everybody else split up into their different sections and get the park open and we'll start putting out prizes and get

1 (32s):
rid of amusement park in Kansas City, Missouri called Worlds of Fun. We're going to be spending the entire hour today at amusement parks.

2 (39s):
It's five minutes before opening and walking with

1 (41s):
Cole Lindbergh who's 25 with permanently must tear on the cheerful Vibe of the Bosom Buddies are Hank's is becoming to this park since he was a little kid started working here as a summer job at 14 and then basically just never left it became his real jobs 11 years later. He is a full-time year-round

2 (58s):
employee. I love amusement parks anytime. My family would go on vacation.

1 (1m 3s):
We schedule it around an amusement park because I love roller coasters. I loved him as Parks. I mean, I've walked this path way that we're taking right now. I've walked it thousands and thousands and thousands of times when he has little his family had season passes here and there would come

2 (1m 18s):
a lot He

1 (1m 20s):
travel to any new roller coaster to try it out daydreamed about a job where he would design parks and build rollercoasters. And when his dad drove him here at the age of 14 for a job interview, he wore a suit that interview just sitting inside the parks offices which are utilitarian picture the principal's office at a public high school. Even that was exciting. I remember being like kind of like, oh, wow. This is the inner sanctum. You know, this is the inner working. This is where all the cool Stuff happens and then, you know, then first time actually getting in the uniform actually working in part. I mean, I remember to me it was like wow, this is this is kind of surreal. You know, I'm actually working in an amusement park now and that to me that was kind of like awesome, you know, though awesome so excited about this.

1 (2m 11s):
Making that enthusiasm would diminish over time. But what's incredible about call is that even after a decade here even after becoming an adult and working 60 70 hour weeks every week all summer even with pressure and his current job of running whole department and having Financial targets and buying all the supplies and hiring and supervising over a hundred young people. He is still pretty psyched about working in an amusement park. And it is not a glamour job Department called runs is The Game's department at Worlds of Fun.

2 (2m 39s):
This is 32 games kind of you would see at any Carnival or Midway where you get, you know, three soft balls to try to throw them into a milk can

1 (2m 46s):
or you throw bean bags at Targets or you shoot darts to knock over a stack of Cups. Nobody comes to an amusement park for the games Cole himself never went to an amusement park for the games, but he's an extrovert and he has filled the department with extroverts. Like Mallory Park is barely open hardly any customers here at all. Uncle stops by her game on this morning rounds.

2 (3m 8s):
Yeah Mallory loves talking on the Mike Miller. He does a good job. I appreciate it. Right. Let's hear it. So go forth. Try to get people to play. All righty. Wow. Here are three points challenge today looking for our first winner you come on over here. You have 40 seconds on the clock. So well shut us up and you could be walking away with some awesome prizes.

1 (3m 32s):
This is exactly how coltrane's your kids. Talk on the mic. Don't stop get a flow have fun. If you have fun. That's what's gonna sell the game watching coal run. The games department at Worlds of Fun is watching somebody who was raised here and who completely thoroughly mastered everything it's rare to witness somebody so Polly great at any job.

2 (3m 51s):
All right, let's gather round guys. There are still people in cash controlling but you know,

1 (3m 56s):
it's the first shift meeting of the day that 30 teenagers and college kids Miller on a big tree before the shift

2 (4m 2s):
start. All right guys, listen up gather a let's do this. Here we go quiet please real quick real quick. Here we go. Today is Saturday. Oh, yeah. Today is a

1 (4m 15s):
busy day. Today

2 (4m 18s):
is the day that we we have a very good day because they're going to be a lot of people playing games. And today of course is one of my favorite days of the season

1 (4m 26s):
is the second round of the sweet 16

2 (4m 30s):
tournament. Let's take a look Samuel to hold this up a little higher. Okay, we've

1 (4m 33s):
got one of the guys Sam holds up a poster board with tournament brackets on it like for any sports tournament this week 1621 pits the kids in all 32 games in the park against each other in pairs and a four-week competition to make the most money last week half the games were eliminated.

2 (4m 49s):
Is

1 (4m 49s):
you're letting the remaining games know who they're competing with today?

2 (4m 54s):
There's a fury Bullpen versus goblets Haas Alliance it now now you go any further. Could this

1 (5m 4s):
possibly be a

2 (5m 5s):
precursor for today yesterday. The number one game in the

1 (5m 10s):
park was scale Africa? Okay. Still Africa. Is this scale a game where they guess your waiter age? Age and it's in the Africa part of the park. Hence scale Africa and it's no surprise. It's number one. It always makes tons of money all the games in the park are grouped together into four different teams. They called games won games two games 3 and games for and these 14 Games 1 through 4 compete against each other all summer long like teams at summer camp and the three-month-long color War. Most other amusement parks. Don't go this far to make things interesting for the workers this park Worlds of Fun Zone by a company called Cedar Fair that owns 11 Amusement Parks and six water parks and Cole knows the guys who run the games Departments of the other parks and some of them do competitions like this between the employees but I don't think they do it to the extent of what we do.

1 (6m 3s):
Yeah. I mean we every year I talked about, you know, we have the Deathmatch tournament. We have the sweet 16 tournament couple years ago. We did a thing called toss the boss. And basically what happened was is that every single day I pull a game out of the hat. And if that game was the number one game in the park for that day, then that section would get to throw me in the pond. The pond is not a good-looking pond. It's gross and you know your it smells and the deal was is that if you are the number one go to the park you get to throw me in the

2 (6m 35s):
pond. So finally One Day the game that he picked from

1 (6m 37s):
the hat that head tried the Hardison actually became the number one game in the park for the day

2 (6m 42s):
and Chris made a video about this because you know the

1 (6m 55s):
present-day America and Colt went and told his peers colleagues the guys who run the games departments at the

2 (7m 1s):
other Parks all about what

1 (7m 2s):
happened I go and I tell little Parts about this I should have picture, you know, like oh there's me all soaking wet. And I mean I kind of got laughed at you know, like why would you ever do that? At and to me in my mind. I was just like why would you not do that? You know, why would you not want to get people excited about working in the game that they're in at least they may try they may do a little more and if I can get a little bit more out of him, we're good, even if the game only makes a little bit more money. Also, it's more fun for the kids exactly. It's all about more fun.

2 (7m 37s):
All right. So there's a lot of people in the park today. Now I have composed a song about today, which I now want to sing for you and you can all sing along. Okay Saturday night. It's Saturday Saturday Saturday Saturday Saturday, okay. Today, I don't feel like riding in a rods. I just want to play all the games that really like playing Mama ball win a giant top frog or a big basketball yesterday.

2 (8m 22s):
I don't feel like riding mini rods. Just playing games. All right, let's have a good day guys everybody and all right. Have a good day. But it in our radio show we go to amusement parks all over the

1 (8m 40s):
country. We see stuff backstage that we had no idea was going on like that song We Are Jonathan Goldstein story about moving to the Jersey Shore for summer when he was

2 (8m 50s):
16 and we hear your stories. We asked you to

1 (8m 53s):
call in with your amusement park stories

2 (8m 55s):
and you told some great ones Today's Show is recorded the first broadcast a few years ago when you could attend amusement park so that wearing a face mask, they're taking precautions to avoid a deadly and deeply contagious. Coronavirus Let Us return to those happy days. Shall we it's summer it's hot but spend an hour and a really fun place at a safe social distance the fact the safest imaginable that is over the radio. Let's ride the ride. So it's gorgeous out on terrible great food together for an hour cue the roller coaster sound now stay with us.

2 (9m 41s):
Like when game boy grows up

1 (9m 46s):
following: burger around on his early morning tour of Worlds of Fun Park and Ride a couple things. First of all people play the games because they want to win the prizes and so an important part of his job is actually guessing what prizes are going to excite people.

2 (9m 60s):
It kind of just go it is what it is. Oh, I got sure you the Lemur you want to see what a lemur is? Yeah people love these. This is a lemur. People play for this all the time. This is one of our number one prices. Really? Yeah, who'da thought it's a fluorescent colored monkey the size of a teddy

1 (10m 17s):
bear with huge eyes and a super long tail when they put it into the dart game the dart game became one of the most popular games in the park doubled its business. I also learned the coat invents

2 (10m 29s):
games you like Angry Birds, right? We round the corner and I see why he asked what we're looking at right now is a giant slingshot with With a launcher that you launch basically bean bags at pigs. And we built this. So you got permission from The Angry Birds people. Well,

1 (10m 51s):
this turns out to be kind of an awkward question Cole points at that. This slingshot game is not actually called Angry Birds.

2 (10m 59s):
It's called pigs of Fury pigs of Fury. So now this is one of our number one games. It's people love shooting a giant

1 (11m 6s):
slingshot. We're glad to Kansas City to meet Cole. I watched his YouTube video song on yes. He has YouTube videos and I heartily recommend them. They are shot directed and starring coal. They are low. Check there were budget in this one. He was a Viking helmet and fake mustache and wire-rimmed glasses and he's walking through a video arcade. Those are his echoing footsteps at your hearing next. He's inside what looks like, you know, there's Oldham arcade machines with a mechanical call that picks up prices. This one is big enough for a person to stand inside and coal is inside it surrounded by huge stuffed animals and he wraps

2 (11m 54s):
Okay,

1 (11m 54s):
I'm going to stop the video right there when he says a bear a dog and a giant monkey. Then we have three quick shots of stuffed animal prizes of bear a dog and a giant monkey

2 (12m 9s):
this video continues the

1 (12m 11s):
teenagers on his staff join him and

2 (12m 14s):
there. Dancing around in there pitting whack-a-mole moles on the beat and

1 (12m 18s):
everything that they do in this video is so deeply uncool

2 (12m 21s):
that you know that they must really like and trust each other and their total commitment to what they're doing actually flips the dorkiness and makes it kind of cool. There are over a dozen videos all set in the amusement

1 (12m 57s):
park with the stuffed animal prize is always playing surprisingly Central roles like the Sci-Fi Special Effects movie. They made were a mysterious Ray from outer

2 (13m 6s):
space hits. The stuffed animal prizes all

1 (13m 9s):
come to life seeking Vengeance keyline.

2 (13m 15s):
I was in my team the Earth Shook and next thing I knew I was being followed by Fair. Are the only semi-normal video of the

1 (13m 22s):
bunch is a training video this one opens on Cole. He's in a suit and tie and front of a bookcase reading a book. He looks up startled. Is it the camera surprised

2 (13m 31s):
him? Hello. How are you? I was just reading. Welcome to the world of fun games training video. My name is Cole. I'll be taking you on this wonderful Journey

1 (13m 48s):
here when he says wonderful Journey heat bugs at the camera with this gesture that communicates the idea. I know this is completely ridiculous. In fact, the entire video seems to be making fun of the idea of training videos while at the same time. It is a training video explaining how to sign in how to use the till card how to stock prizes. I saw these videos and all I could think of was these people really love their jobs. And I thought about Michael Scott the fictional boss on the office. I'd say that there's a lot of Michael Scott in this job. I say there's a lot of Michael Scott it me probably I do silly things that everybody looks at me later and go.

1 (14m 29s):
Why did he do that? Why did why was it deem necessary for cold and dress up wearing a big beard and a raincoat and tell everyone he lived. Downtown under the bridge and he was there to motivational speaker today.

2 (14m 42s):
Hi everybody. I'm for

1 (14m 43s):
real Bridges. You know it like God talking to people what went through his thought process and I've run out with a squirt gun on the time. I got my big Super Soaker and I'm busy days. I'll take the Super Soaker and I'll fill it up with ice water and I'll sneak around the corner which isn't there all stand there and I'll just

2 (14m 60s):
go buy them up. It just saw light spray

1 (15m 3s):
across the whole group. You know, that's what makes it fun. They're going to remember. Refill Bridges more than you know, like anything else throughout the day and so if they're talking about did you guys see what Cole did at the shift meeting even if they say that was stupid or that was not funny. They're still going to be talking about it and that's still going to get them happy about this job.

2 (15m 36s):
So does that work in practice? After out if you think about it, I'm using the park jobs are not on their face very fun, you know taking tickets strapping people into rides convincing passers-by the throw three balls into a camp

1 (15m 52s):
with a side of that is visited turned out to be one of the busiest

2 (15m 54s):
hottest days of the summer. It was a concert at the park which brought in thousands of extra people. And of course, this

1 (15m 59s):
was sweet 16 round two, which did seem to matter to the

2 (16m 3s):
kids before the shift Haley

1 (16m 6s):
and a couple of the other kids from games three. Pulled Cole aside and crowded close to kids from other teams couldn't see

2 (16m 12s):
so this is you have a secret weapon that is going to show you the secret costume. So is that you made the costume I made the costume. Yeah, because he's awesome because we have a game with bananas. That's in sweet 16. We're gonna have somebody running around in this costume to try to sell it. Kind of big and it's kind of rough because I didn't say I don't like killing her away. Did you just go buy fabric know I've had this fabric. So it's the head whole arms hole and it's gonna look like the bananas in my instead.

2 (16m 54s):
I like the pumps like that is more than exciting. People are gonna be stopping taking pictures all over me going one

1 (17m 0s):
two, meanwhile guys and games for we're doing great and sweet 16. All their games had survived the first round. Games one was eliminated completely in the first round of sweet 16 Ezra games to Max and hooks on of pulling a double shift hoping to break the record for how much has ever been made ever in their two games. They're not so secret strategy.

2 (17m 24s):
All right. So strobe light strobe light. You want to black lights out there Max and his team leader Dominic or setting up at a game called rollerball,

1 (17m 33s):
which is one of the older games in the park. Basically, it's just skee ball, but as you get points, it moves a little Pig which is in a race with all the other writers. It says make any sense. It actually doesn't matter. Here's what you need to know games to is hoping to turn this creaky 16 year old game rollerball, which never does. Well do a crazy dance party. They call techno ball Max and Dominic it brought in a disco ball. They brought in lighting gear. And Dominic is explaining to Max how he wants to set it all up.

2 (17m 59s):
We're gonna put a light on that toy chest going to put a total a light on that box there shining at the disco ball. Disco ball is going to be moving this all dark in here people want to To walk on it'll big whoa, what am I stepping on a light maybe a half an hour before the park opens? Hey Lee and

1 (18m 17s):
Claire. I got into work early and we're down in games three by scale Africa.

2 (18m 21s):
We wanted to set out the most prizes that we could make the piles extravagant do a lot of flash like and that's a glass of time so he came out here early. So just describe what looking at this a pyramid here of turtles and there's pandas Lions. There's going to be one of tigers.

1 (18m 39s):
Each Pyramid has over a hundred stuffed animals in it, which is bigger than I think you're probably imagining it. It's like nearly waist high and so there are four big pastel-colored piles of plush toys right in the middle of the walkway looking so so easy to win

2 (18m 55s):
basically every prize. We've got every every prize we got. Yeah, we're throwing it out here. We're going big or go home. We really want to win. We brought in streamers balloons energy drinks. We got a whole bunch energy drinks. We got a whole bunch of Gatorade we brought in food. Everyone he's energized get pumped up for the whole day. We really want to win. We lost deathmatch and very painful saddle.

1 (19m 19s):
Years ago, I was lead of games three. This was my section Cole gets just as excited as the kids do when you get him talking about all the fun things that he did back when he was Haley and cars age working here running games three, his team were dressed as pirates for the guessing game and they'd be out of the scale and they do guessing Pirates gar your age. We are, you know stuff like that 2004 came around we dominated week beat everyone. It was awesome. And I so I'm it is still so alive for him. They dominated in 2004 by tricking out one of the games with music and all kinds of commotion and turning it into a party doubling its take for the day. We brought my fog machine in from home

2 (20m 1s):
because at the time I was in

1 (20m 2s):
high school and I had a band and people flocked to it and we destroyed games to we destroyed in that year. It was the happiest. I've been because in 2003 we had gotten so close to winning and I just Bouncing 2004 is a year games three work bring the sweet 16 back 2004 and we did we want and

2 (20m 24s):
I was really happy late morning. When I checked back at games three the pyramids of plush toys look pretty much exactly as big as they had earlier that morning things were

1 (20m 37s):
slow and to Goose the business one of the supervisors. Sarah was standing on the roof of this little hot

2 (20m 45s):
gases coming out the roof. Rufus just to get the hundred guesses 88 more guesses and then I'm gonna allow myself to take a bathroom break. So any of you guys walking by if you guys want to come play my game help me out get me off this roof with a $5 to play. I can get your age weight little birthday

1 (21m 2s):
month. This is a technique that I recognize from a thousand public radio pledge drives and it was working about a slowly for her as it works for us strangers. Just don't care if some girl on the roof gets to take a bathroom break.

2 (21m 16s):
I'm stuck here. Hey, thanks for the luck. You should come I dare you guys to come feel these Turtles. It sounds like a weird weird thing, but we really have the softest turtles in town. You should feel one. They're really soft after while

1 (21m 39s):
serious which technique and finally managed to rustle up a crowd through the simple tactic of making a series of insanely Parable guesses first. There is a dad who looks like 42 and in fact is 42 Sarah gets this 25 then a grandmother who was standing there with kids and grandkids Sarah racer gets through this woman's age on a whiteboard

2 (21m 59s):
be really wrong. I get the feeling is really wrong, but that's okay. We'll see you guys like this. Guess maybe. All right. We're on how old are you? I guess you're 37. It's sunglasses sunglasses. Really throw me off but congratulations used to be got any prize you want. Later, Sarah privately confirm for me that she did intentionally take a dive which is fine with coal because it turns out it doesn't matter if the kids guess

1 (22m 25s):
right the game costs $5 to play the prizes cost less than five dollars.

2 (22m 32s):
Sarah can be wrong with every single guess

1 (22m 34s):
and it's still make a nice profit. In

2 (22m 36s):
fact, it's good to lose because of people carrying

1 (22m 39s):
prices around the park or walking

2 (22m 40s):
advertisement for all the games Cole's Journey from summertime employee like Sarah to full-time. Round

1 (22m 48s):
boss happened in a couple of steps. He said as a kind of nerdy kid in high school in a small town. It was nice to come to a place where his personality was rewarded. I couldn't wait till the summer because when it was summer time, I get to come to World fund and work with people that are just like me and enjoy our whole summer together. It's actually used to that in his senior year at the University of Kansas at Lawrence. He got a phone call offering him the job of games manager. He dropped out of school to take it. It's it's probably one of the hardest decisions I've ever had to make but I said, okay, this opportunities probably only going to come along once in a lifetime as you'd imagine.

1 (23m 29s):
It hasn't been such a popular decision with family. So I mean, I have a full year left. I'm like one full year of college left. It comes up when you least expect it it comes up when they like Oh, no you're working real hard, but when you get back to school Or my

3 (23m 47s):
grandmother now before you know, I pass on you need to make sure you completed calling

1 (23m 53s):
him a grandma all the time and I get a lot from the girlfriend too. What are you gonna finish because she just graduated college this girlfriend called pretty serious. They just moved in together. They met in games back in 2006 though. She moved on from games. I get that all the time. She's like your we're not going to be together forever. If you don't finish college, I get it a lot. How often What come up?

2 (24m 19s):
once a week

1 (24m 22s):
Maybe maybe once every two weeks depending on the week. I don't know. I don't know lots of very accomplished people that have college degrees. I know Steve Jobs. Yeah, but Steve Jobs he changed the world. You know, I'm just a lowly little games manager and a small midsize Park in Kansas City

2 (24m 48s):
who wants to play some games?

1 (24m 52s):
By midday done against three that is Dustin who's wearing the full body banana suit that Haley handmade for him which looks amazing, but it is 94 degrees which is sapping everybody's energy and business is slow.

2 (25m 6s):
Oh, all right. Well, you guys have a great day though is the day wears on people slogging migrated from the rides for the games and by Nightfall when it cools off the guys in games to finally get techno ball working maxanoxx honor covered from head to toe. Glow lights: a round a corner together and we see them in the distance and there's a crowd of three dozen people

1 (25m 26s):
surrounding the game. It's

2 (25m 28s):
fantastic. Oh my goodness. Oh, let's go. Look at techno ball. Look at this six of your staff and and to three other guys all dancing in a big circle. Well, it makes it four other guys all dancing in a big circle to techno music and how many people are actually playing zero. Hey Dominic. Hey Dom. That's Dominic the team leader here at games too. Oh look down saw like embarrassed. Hi Dom. How many people are playing the game top driving a lot of attention? I yeah, but why are we turning that into Game Boy closely? Just maybe they should

1 (26m 8s):
dance inside the game instead of on the walkway in front of the game. So people would be pulled into play Dom does not want to do this and listen to what a good boss Cole is he's firm. He's very nice about it.

2 (26m 22s):
You're so close. I won't close. Those why aren't you playing the game? I know go ahead was hoping that they will realize that they're not going to realize that you know that you and better than anyone you should know that they're not going to just be like, oh It looks fine. I mean all the lights. I mean, it's I'm not gonna deny the awesomeness but I am going to say that no more dance party. I really think the dance parties are not going to help you with I walk down to check on games three. It is 10:30 at

1 (27m 2s):
night Claire has been here for

2 (27m 4s):
13 hours since I saw her sitting up pyramids of Posh before the gates open the park those pyramids were now raggedy piles, maybe half their original

1 (27m 12s):
size, which means that Did great they got lots of people to play. They probably given away 500 prizes for wrong guesses and Claire is that exactly the kind of day The cold ones for all the

2 (27m 22s):
kids. Did you have fun today? Yes, I had a lot of fun. I can I had no idea what time it was until about 20 minutes ago. And I checked it just didn't occur to me that I needed to check the time because there's going by so fast. Yeah. When did you take your first break today? I haven't taken a break. Wow. Yeah. Yes, I'm kind of used to it. This is Claire's third year

1 (27m 46s):
here. He's 18 going to Missouri state in the fall to study nursing

2 (27m 50s):
and she tells me what a lot of kids here.

1 (27m 51s):
Tell me she wouldn't keep coming back to work at Worlds of Fun. If not for Cole.

2 (27m 56s):
Definitely not. I don't think any other boss would do like the rally days. The Deathmatch is sweet 16 the toss the boss just all the fun stuff that we do that keeps us going through the season and just keeps this job exciting everyday.

1 (28m 10s):
Sam one of the leaders were games for has been here for three Summers and he also says the coal is the reason that it keeps coming back.

2 (28m 17s):
Honestly. No one else could do a better job. He was made to do this. It's funny like watching him do something like sing a goofy song for you guys in the morning. You can imagine high school students and college students that are rolling their eyes at somebody doing that but nobody does no, it's weird. It's almost like that's that's the thing to do. Whatever coal does is the thing to be doing. That moment and we just we just saw a feel like that was the right move. Do you remember what it was? Like the first time you saw one of his videos? I do. I remember since I was like, that's my boss and he just made that video and it was so cool because I went and even show some of my friends that are like like who's this guy is like that's my

1 (28m 59s):
boss. That's so weird. Because a lot of people would say, well it's an amusement park. You know, you're great at working at an amusement park. That doesn't mean by the way that he is seen by his bosses as some kind of super star he gets respect. Sure. Everybody likes him. His immediate Boss Matt thinks that there is nobody better at games in any of the 11 Amusement Park sung by their parent company Cedar Fair pecola's working at one of the smallest of the 11 Parks.

2 (29m 28s):
So other games managers bigger

1 (29m 29s):
Parks bring in way. Money the cold does and games in the grand scheme of things is actually the smallest Revenue producer at most amusement parks the biggest money at an amusement park comes from ticket sales. Then you screwed everybody buys food then merch and then bringing up the rear is games

2 (29m 48s):
what Cole does has less effect on the company's bottom

1 (29m 51s):
line, then lots of people in the company and as much as cold loves this job, you can't help but Wonder How long can a person do this job? So the one thing that I always say is I mean, I'm 25 now I started here when I was 14 and the weird thing is is that I'm getting older but everybody else in the department staying the same age. I'm going to set the tape right there. Yes. I know Matthew McConaughey is diffused cold seen the film to but the thing the thing I'm going to do for you is to do you feel like somehow accidentally in this job you got stuck. In high school you got stuck at 15 like there's a part of you or you're still back there.

1 (30m 37s):
I like working out in the park with the kids. Absolutely 100% the goofball part the goofball part the part where you get to act their age instead of your age. Yes. Does that make me sound bad? I mean, I'm still a manager. I'm still overseeing a hundred people that work for me, you know, but at the same time, you know. Ten years from now. I mean, I don't think I can still be a goofball. I think that just kind of get creepy. I mean you're 35 and you work with a bunch of high schoolers in a gate. Is that creepy? Maybe maybe not. I don't know. Do you worry that you'll never be happier in any job then you are in this one?

1 (31m 23s):
Yes. Absolutely. That's a weird Faith to know that you're in the best job you may have a 25 especially when it's a job that you know in your heart can

2 (31m 35s):
last the first broadcast the

1 (31m 44s):
story in 2011 Cole is now solidly in his 30s. You have to job at worth of find years ago work for a while and sales at a toy company traveled a little giving motivational talks about being a boss and amusement park now he works in sales at a tech company and he said That would you have really really loves going still crazy about amusement parks. They actually helped set up an alumni association for his old staff at the game's Department worked out a deal with Worlds of Fun to allow old games kids to go back to the park and work a shift in games relive the glory. His latest project is figuring out how I can build a roller coaster in his backyard.

2 (32m 31s):
Well

1 (32m 31s):
coming up carnies float in the air scary things happen on rides and bold steps forward for paintball targets everywhere are our of amusement parks continues in a minute for Chicago public radio when our program continues Support for This American Life comes from Capital One. Welcome to banking reimagined Capital One checking and savings accounts have no fees or minimums and a top-rated banking app that lets you manage your money anytime anywhere check on the account balance deposit checks pay bills and transfer money on the go. This is banking reimagined. What's in your wallet Capital One na member FDIC This American Life my glasses you're going to show of course, we choose a theme bring you different kinds of stories on that theme Today's Show amusement parks, it's July.

1 (33m 19s):
It's hot. We want to go someplace fun here on the radio Subway's a lots of us me included would never visit today because of coronavirus Today's Show is a rerun recorded before all that. We have arrived it back to of our program at to Great Adventures. What we asked you our listeners to call in with your amusement park stories nearly 300 of you did and whatever. This is Jane. Marie was into all of those voicemail messages. She joins me now. Hey, Jane. Hey, so Jane Trends patterns. What? Can you tell me carnies? Oh, yeah, there's like creepy carnies and hot carnies and carnies that people married and bunch of people called and told stories about carnies like making the ride go too fast or keeping them on the ride to these two calls that I'm going to play our from Barry Silver and Penny Delaney cofran and they had the same exact like crazy her knee Story Only They happened years apart and in different cities, but it's fun to imagine.

1 (34m 17s):
They're talking about the same guy

3 (34m 18s):
my amusement park story involves the Gravitron

1 (34m 21s):
yet. Oh, let me interrupt real quick because the Gravitron that was like the most popular ride people talked about in the phone calls, huh? That's the one where it's a cylinder and you climb in it and you put your back up against the inside wall of the cylinder head and it spins around in the four drops out. Yep, and you're like stuck to the wall. There was a

3 (34m 38s):
carny there and he was waving us all in and we Purchase tickets and I guess our first sign that this is going to be an interesting ride was when he said no to the tickets. We offered him and just kind of waved Us in I was working for the world of Wonder Sideshow last month. It made friends with the Carney who was running the Gravitron. He started up the ride and the music was blaring and I remember it was Motley Crue's dr. Feelgood. Anyway, he gave me a private showing where I'm right. Inside this thing music blasting in the lights were going and we were spinning around in the centrifugal force was pushing us up against the wall and the next thing I know this Carney steps out from behind his operating box and comes out into the centrifuge and proceeds to pull himself up and place his feet on the spinning wall and walk over the rider step by step with his body completely horizontal to the Earth.

3 (35m 40s):
He standing

2 (35m 42s):
On the wall next to me surfing inside of the Gravitron. That's right. The ride operator left the control panel to start surfing the inside parallel to the ground. The force was holding

3 (35m 55s):
his feet against the wall, and it was just the most amazing thing I've ever seen best experience of my life.

2 (36m 9s):
So I know

1 (36m 10s):
because you told me right before we sat down that a lot of the stories that people caught in tell where love stories Tons of love stories or like like stories, you know, like summer flings summer romances first kisses there were people that lost their virginity on rides. No, don't do that. But then

2 (36m 34s):
The

1 (36m 34s):
proposals there are a lot of people proposing at amusement parks some more successfully than others.

3 (36m 41s):
My name is Natasha and in met my boyfriend proposed to me on a roller coaster. We were on a Viper he said will you marry me and he popped open the ring box and the ring fell out of the box and down into the pit of vipers. It was a pretty awful. I started trying. To get the right operator to stop the carb the director of operations at the park assembled a team of about 20 people and they searched for the ring for hours and that happened in May. So the kicker here is that that ring was actually my grandmother's ring and they're actually still searching for it that we have yet to find it.

2 (37m 36s):
But I called Natasha actually to see if

1 (37m 38s):
they'd found it yet. And she said that the park had called her recently and said they found a ring but it wasn't hers. It was another engagement

2 (37m 45s):
ring. Really. Yeah. Yep.

1 (37m 48s):
Let's get to know that her fianc? wasn't the only dummy right and then we got a bunch of scary calls. So, this is Gary one Wendy in Austin Texas. She and her friend went to the fair and they were getting on a roller coaster. It was like one of those. Um sighs Fair roller coasters were there's one big drop in the loop-d-loop and but as she was getting on she was like futzing around with her purse.

3 (38m 10s):
I reached up to pull the harness down over me and it locks above my head and I have nothing holding me into this coaster. So I look over in horror as the Carny guy with the that was running the word looks at me. And he pushes the button to go and the thing starts to go and I'm telling him wait, wait, wait, stop stop. I don't have my seatbelt on

1 (38m 41s):
but he doesn't stop so I know so - he's like going up the hill. So she said she turned to her friend and she just decided to wrap her arms and legs around her friend. I know and so they go down the hill and then they go through the loop-d-loop. So she's upside down. I know just like hanging under her

3 (38m 57s):
friend this tight as I can to stay inside the rides and what really got scared. Scary as we whipped around the corners. I almost got thrown out but I didn't

1 (39m 8s):
said that she had whiplash for a week and that she was too young to realize that she probably could have sued them. Hmm. So there's another story from this woman Susan her three-year-old wanted to go to the fair but it was super late at night. And so they humor demand their lecture will take you but they figured he would fall asleep on the way there, but he didn't he stayed awake.

3 (39m 29s):
So I said, okay, I'll take you in for one ride on the ferris wheel. We are and then we'll go back to the car. My husband. Di noon put his shoes on because we didn't think he'd make it there. So we took him to the ferris wheel and he kept pointing to the Scrambler

2 (39m 42s):
saying that he wanted to

3 (39m 44s):
go on the Scrambler and I said no no, no and we got off the ride. I held the chain for the person behind me to come out and when I turned back around he was gone could not find him anywhere. And as we're looking around and we have a whole group looking for this little three-year-old boy. I looked at and he was inside the Gate of the Scrambler and the Scrambler was going his head was just at the car level and the Carny woman stopped the ride and she stopped it in time. She walked over picked him up handed him to me.

3 (40m 25s):
She didn't say a word. And I took him and he said she was really scary and I stood that woman was an

2 (40m 34s):
angel

3 (40m 36s):
and so I will never badmouth a carny

1 (40m 38s):
again. I'm glad we finally have some unequivocally Pro Carney material in this story. We too

2 (40m 46s):
high takes place in

3 (40m 51s):
Disneyland, and I was really excited to go on the haunted house ride. I forget what it's called. Anyways the door opens and you are lit into a room and the door opens and it's a dark empty room and there is a person a little little breath in he was in the room already and I thought it was part of the haunted house. So I start screaming and and he was looking at me because I was screaming he was screaming at me. We are both screaming at each other. And then we both realized that it was not part of haunted house in that.

3 (41m 34s):
We just waiting in line with each other and we pretended like nothing happened.

2 (41m 46s):
And finally there were the puke stories. A lot of people caught

1 (41m 49s):
about puke and is the story more than just I was on a ride and I puked. Yeah, I was on a ride and I puked or I was on a ride and I got puked on.

2 (41m 58s):
Well, I don't I don't hear that it was there any that had to like a Twist was surprised plot twist. The one that stands out for me is

1 (42m 6s):
this lady was on that ocean motion ride, you know that's like big boat that swings back and forth and basically just goes up and down. Yeah just means it's like a pendulum and so she was up at the highest part of the boat and she saw the guy on the other end of the boat start puking and so then she was like

2 (42m 20s):
swinging down at the puke. And did you see the people are like, oh shit. Let me go. I could see in slow motion this

3 (42m 31s):
line of vomit coming towards

2 (42m 33s):
me and it hit her. Yeah about two

3 (42m 36s):
seconds later. It's slaughtered the entire right side of my body.

2 (42m 41s):
So where to go. You can't get off the boat

1 (42m 51s):
Jayne Marie. She used to be a producer here these days. She is the host of the podcast the dream. I shall we really like it's about multi-level. Getting schemes and the people who get caught up in them. Three what I didn't do on my summer vacation, you know sometimes some of the ends up in an amusement park could really has no business there at all. It was not built to thrilled at the Thrills at the amusement park offers as a teenager Jonathan Goldstein spend a summer working at an amusement park one that was situated right on the beach in Wildwood, New Jersey. It is your typical amusement park on the beach. There's a boardwalk Three Wooden Piers with roller coasters and Ferris wheel and lots of dropped popcorn and hotdog buns for the seagulls to eat.

1 (43m 32s):
29 years since Jonathan went to work at Wildwood and he always wanted to go back and so we sent him along with a one of our producers Jonathan menjivar Quick note to listeners destroy has nothing explicit in it, but it does make reference to the existence of sex as does this warning.

2 (43m 51s):
The smell of garbage is really bringing it all back in a rush. Maybe maybe I could bring back a bag with some salt water

1 (43m 58s):
taffy. After whole religious rebirth that I won't go into here the summer of my 16th year found me. Seriously considering is Shiva rabbinical school for the Fall by Rabbi suggest that I spend the summer at this religious Camp just to give me a better idea of what was to come but my best friend Evan said that summer camp was for suckers and religious Camp was even worse and then if I came with him to Wildwood, he personally make sure I had a good time. I'll get you ELD really good. He wrote like a Blood Oath My 1986 High School yearbook that's hailed as in the letter L and getting else seemed important, especially if I was going to be giving my life over to the Torah attacks that place greater emphasis on getting seed as in circumsized.

1 (44m 47s):
And so I went to

2 (44m 48s):
Wildwood

1 (44m 50s):
and now I was back how close

2 (44m 52s):
to duel is to the pier. I mean as you've seen getting here might have my sense of direction isn't my forte. Man, let's like the whole summer. I was just like floating around and I got jar of formaldehyde.

1 (45m 12s):
The plan was to go down and get jobs. It was what a lot of teenagers in my town did Evans older brother had done it years earlier and had arranged a job for Evan handing out darts that Pat's easier to pop balloons on the boardwalk and I was supposed to get a job too. But on our fourth night, they're still without work. I sat on the edge of my bed and felt that sense of being a failure this feeling would eventually become a staple in my life something. I grow comfortable with in bars Jim's offices and bedrooms, but just then the feeling was strange and new and they didn't quite know what to do with it. We lived in a co-ed boarding house run by a woman with a face like a clenched fist named mrs.

1 (45m 55s):
D. I spent my days hanging out at Evans balloon stand where his boss finally became so tired of having me around that. He pulled some strings to get me a job working as a change. Way at an arcade if you walk down the boardwalk, there was a point where it looked like the fun had come to an end. My arcade was just a few yards

2 (46m 16s):
past that do you remember we're here? Yeah. I'm thinking I'm trying to like, I think I mean if anything maybe that little Shack right over there was the arcade where there's a roller coaster going over it now. It's sort of like the little house at that alvy singer grew up in and in any hole

1 (46m 35s):
you've still got pizza parlors. Games with unwinnable prizes and the vague threat of violence about to erupt in other words Wildwood hadn't changed much back then everything looked like 1986 now 1987 though as it turns out the arcade I worked at is long gone, even at the time all the other arcades were carpeted an air-conditioned but mine was like an outhouse with all the oldest skankiest games all their joysticks having had the joy jerked right out of them years. Are on the fourth of July. I remember watching the fireworks through a little crack in the wall right above the Donkey Kong machine.

1 (47m 15s):
I felt like a young Tony Montana. Just having come to America except the only person I wanted to kill was myself. Being Human change machine is just one of the jobs that seems only to exist on the boardwalk like the guy who's paid to dance in front of the T-shirt shop to draw customers or the girl who blows bubbles all day outside souvenir store.

2 (47m 43s):
Yes, that's my job. I think money from them. That's your whole job is just blowing bubbles and sign with laser shining a laser in people's eyes. No, of course, the bubble girl tells me she is from

1 (47m 59s):
Bulgaria the Bulgarian Bubble Girl is very young looking like first time away from home young and as she explains to me her work responsibilities. She is approached by a man who turns out to be her boss. He plants a big kiss on her cheek as though marking his

2 (48m 15s):
territory as it a good summer. It's all right. Sorry this boardwalks getting bad and nighttime this Boardwalk is bad. People stabbing people and shooting people. Yeah, you go two blocks all the board Walter the shooting and stabbing with a horse Under the Boardwalk. Yeah, what goes on Under the Boardwalk sex and drugs I park underneath my store and you can see underneath here and you catch them all the time down on a dare. They go right down them steps and and I need the Vault. Wow sex on the boardwalk. Cool me and you Yeah, you wanna do it?

2 (49m 1s):
Yep. Alright. See you later. It was creepy.

1 (49m 16s):
My old boss Mike was creepy to Mike always wore sunglasses and a red skin tight bathing suit that for some reason I could never quite fathom always appeared to be wet. My friend. Evan said that it was unwholesome how Mike's arms were so short. He's like a T-Rex Evan said the first time Mike paid me he had to get all crooked to get his wallet out most of the time I was in the arcade all by myself and hardly anyone ever came in just little Kids who sat on the ancient Skee-Ball machines asking for free games. Those old. Skee-Ball machines haven't really

2 (49m 52s):
changed now. My technique used to be I kind of do a sort of bank shot. Like there was this kind of sweet spot that I would hit on the right Bank. That was really close wasn't it? You got the lowest amount of points. You can get P like my son that I'm taking a kind of you got the lowest one that that little beer cozies going to be mine. No longer will my hand has to be so frigid when I'm drinking a Budweiser. Mike was an alcoholic and he left me to open and close the place most of the time.

1 (50m 31s):
Sometimes he would Stagger Inn in the middle of the afternoon and lay down on the lopsided pool table once comfortably spread out. He'd asked me to cover him from head to toe with the stuffed animals for Skee-Ball so he could sleep without getting caught by the old woman who ran the pier every time I put Mike too bad. I became more and more convinced that you Ava was the place

2 (50m 53s):
for me

1 (50m 57s):
when he wasn't goofing off drunk. Mike was furthering Evans work of trying to get me held he would invite Nancy the 19 year old redhead who ran the water squirt game next door over so he could tell her about how she should The Verge analyze me Nancy was a Jersey girl who Warlow back shirts that showed off a large complicated Dragon Tattoo. She told me it was a Chinese wind God and then Old biker boyfriend had given it to her it started at her neck and slithered all the way down into her pants to blow across the tundra in the afternoon when business was slow Nancy would come by and tell me about how Mike had just been over pleading on my behalf and how she tried to explain to him that we was just friends, right?

1 (51m 43s):
Oh, yeah, I'd say swallowing back the hard lump of foul-tasting Virgin tears congealing in my throat the best

2 (51m 56s):
Listen to this music and you feel like you're going around like the corner. They're going to see like Joe Pesci beating someone to death with a baseball bat. It's all I could think about it's a song called one with days you hear it what would days and wildwood night? My producer Jonathan and I walk down the

1 (52m 15s):
boardwalk where we discover what's got to be

2 (52m 18s):
the very worst job in Wildwood. Most of the stuff I do is just off the top of my head. Whatever I can pick up on the spot. This is duck bonus Junior The Sounds you hear are of

1 (52m 29s):
people shooting at him with

2 (52m 31s):
guns Dutch bonus jr. Is a human paintball target.

1 (52m 36s):
He shuffles back and forth and eggs on the crowd while being splattered.

2 (52m 39s):
Like a Jackson Pollock canvas, you know, I'll put it as blunt as I can because this is how it is on my tax forms to I'm an Entertainer not the dancer kind. But basically I get suited up in a hockey gear and I get shot at all night. And that doesn't that it doesn't start to get you a little bit you dream about it. I love it. It's entertaining to me because this is one of the jobs that I can be as creative as I want to be. And it's just like, you know web page design, you know you when you go in you can do whatever you

1 (53m 15s):
want before Duds human paintball target simply shuffled from side to side holding a shield then one day Dutch dropped his shield and began to moonwalk. Soulja Boy was to follow. He also invented Shadow Boxing at the paintballs and running towards the shooters dots is protected by a suit that looks like what you'd come up with. If you try to build a Michelin Man costume at of moistness. Paper and epoxy

2 (53m 40s):
glue are armed with paint ball guns. Yep that we provide because a lot of people try to you know, they want to bring their own but we don't allow that it's just not gonna happen the suit that you're that you wear protects you from from any pain for the most part. Yeah, there's some weak spots. But you know, I can't say where the weak spots are because in a lot of people will find out and then that account becomes a little dangerous to know before agreeing to talk with me Dutch wanted to finish his break with the woman who works next door at the old-timey photo place as it turns out she's his

1 (54m 23s):
wife. We met on this very Boardwalk dots might spend his day getting fired at in a cage. But at least on his time off he has someone to talk to someone with whom to share the secret weak spots in his armor. Back when I lived there Wildwood had this reputation for being a big party town people were supposed to be scoring like nuts on the boardwalk every night. And actually they were the only real action. I got that summer though was in the form of a single kiss. I later referred to it as the kiss that ruined my summer. It happened while I was out walking on the boardwalk late one night.

1 (55m 4s):
I saw a group of older girls may be in their early 20s. He's coming toward me one of them a little ahead of the others was sort of spinning with her arm stuck out and her long blond hair all over the place just as she got right up close to me. She grabbed the back of my neck and put her lips right on mine. I remember as she pulled back. I spastically grabbed onto her wrist. I didn't want her to leave her friends had to pry my fingers off one at a time and she stood there smiling at me all Stone denarii. That night back at The Boarding House in our room. I spent the rest of the evening obsessing as it might have been the last one I'd receive until I got married that kiss pretty much felt like my swinging bachelorhood and Yeshiva.

1 (55m 51s):
I'd be the mysterious one with a past for the rest of the summer. I couldn't pass a woman on the boardwalk without thinking that we should somehow be meeting in a kiss that that's how life should really be. It turned walking along the boardwalk into a Relentless drizzle of small, but horrible. disappointments

2 (56m 14s):
I didn't know it then but that summer would prove the best one I have is a

1 (56m 17s):
teenager even though I was worked like an indentured servant giving every penny of my earnings to mrs. D. Even though I made no friends and even though I only made it to the beach, but once where I sat on a mildewy boardinghouse washcloth exhausted and pale

2 (56m 33s):
that whole summer felt like some big fat vacation

1 (56m 37s):
just because I was 16 and away from my parents.

2 (56m 39s):
First

1 (56m 40s):
time when I got back home, I didn't end up going to Shiva. I didn't bring home any pen pals money or happy romantic memories, but I did bring back a pair of black pants covered in small white skulls. They were really baggy and I had to wear them with 10-inch cuffs at the bottom. But when I showed up for my first day back at school, I thought it looked really punk rock. I thought like anyone who never been held that they were the pants of someone who got held

2 (57m 9s):
up. All Summer Long

1 (57m 19s):
Jonathan Goldstein is the host of the podcast heavyweight take it out on Spotify or wherever you get your podcast. There's a list of the best favorite episodes just search heavyweight starter kit on

2 (57m 30s):
Spotify a lot of winners today.

1 (57m 35s):
And what would you say to get a guy like me to come over?

2 (57m 38s):
I don't know if I would call you and you don't look like the type of guy that would say spend money a year, you know get three shots. Is he saying that I'm too cool a customer or is he saying you're too cheap a Jew to say by Jane Marie and me with Ben Calhoun Sara Canning Jonathan, and

1 (58m 10s):
he probably has a power grab and said mean it was a she. And Nancy update senior producer for today shows Julie Snyder production help on this rerun from nor Gil Katherine. Raimondo Stone Nelson and Mac Tierney special. Thanks today to build child stabile top Tim Martin. Jeff pots Dickerson, Amy Silverman Lindsay young at Morrie's pure and Wildwood, New Jersey original music scoring and every one of our show by Dave Hill featuring Dave Hill on guitar This American Life is delivered public radio stations by PRX the public radio exchange sport for This American Life comes from Life way Foods makers of America. Has best-selling kefir known as the champagne of dairy keepers of culture tart and tangy drink filled with vitamin D protein and 12:5 and active probiotic cultures because life way food loves your guts more at life way foods.com and from Sitka salmon chairs community supported fishery home delivering seasonal shares of wild

2 (59m 4s):
Alaskan Seafood went about their environmental responsibility fairness

1 (59m 7s):
fishermen and traceability at Sitka salmon chairs.com.

2 (59m 12s):
Some hey.com. Hey is a new take on

1 (59m 15s):
email allowing you to screen emails just like you screen

2 (59m 18s):
calls give someone the thumbs up there about

1 (59m 20s):
in comes down and you never hear from them again. Try it for free @ H ey.com.

2 (59m 28s):
Thanks as always for programs co-founder. Mr. Tareme out Tia

1 (59m 31s):
who's Turtle breeding experiments are finally paying off.

2 (59m 35s):
Are you guys to come feel these Turtles? It sounds like a weird weird thing, but we really have the softest turtles in town. You should feel one. They're really

1 (59m 44s):
soft my glass back next week with more stories of this America. Mexican the podcast This American Life Hannah joffe wild spent years reporting in one Middle School. She investigated the school's history from its beginning in the 60s to the present day and she realized you could put a name to the unnamed force that too often gets in the way of improving our public schools. That force is wait parents a white parents can mess things up for everybody else and they don't even know it this next week on the podcast on your local public radio station.