ZipRecruiter (1s):
Support for This American Life comes from zip recruiter hiring can be challenging but there's one place you can go where hiring is simple and smart. Zip recruiter were growing businesses connect to qualified candidates. Try it for free @ zip recruiter.com American zip recruiter the smartest way to hire

Rocket Mortgage (21s):
and from rocket mortgage by Quicken Loans making the home buying process work for you their team. Is there with award-winning client service and support get started at Rocket mortgage.com American Equal Housing lender licensed in all 50 states and MLS consumer access dot org number 30 30

2 (41s):
From WBEZ Chicago, it's This American Life.

3 (45s):
My name is Kenneth Hagin. I'm a travel writer and how tall are you? I'm 6 foot 2 someone a flight to Minneapolis sitting next to Ken heekin 642 travel writer

2 (56s):
and can is trying to pull off a scheme that is not at

3 (59s):
all friendly

2 (1m 1s):
though to his credit. He feels bad about

3 (1m 3s):
what he's doing. So explain what just happened here. Well, I can tell you I've only had about four hours sleep chiefly because I was a little nervous about trying something new I what I just did was I clamped these two pieces of plastic that look like the monsters from Alien like that those little alien heads and their clamps you basically slide these clamps. Onto your tray table and it prevents the person in front of you from tilting back and slamming into your knees. If you're a tall man, like I am hearing about these kinds of the internet thought that is simultaneously the most inventive and the most passive aggressive Gadget.

3 (1m 51s):
He'd ever heard of its called the Knee Defender as a tall guy who flies two or three times a month for his job. He decided he had to try them attaching the clamps to the arms of his tray table with simple, but next came the part that kept can awake the night before the makers of the defender have something called a courtesy card that you're supposed to then hand to the person in front of you to let them know you're deploying the Knee Defender clamps. So I just Tap the woman's shoulder in front of me said this message is for you. Kite says this is a Knee Defender courtesy card TM trademark.

3 (2m 34s):
I am using Knee Defender TM Knee Defender TM is a small plastic device that helps me protect myself by limiting how much the seat in front of me can recline. I wanted to let you know about this and then underneath can check the box that said that her seat would be able to recline two inches can had been scared that handing this to somebody he was going to end up in some horrible argument with a stranger on a plane. He's Canadian not to put too fine a point on that. These doesn't like confrontation.

2 (3m 5s):
We discuss what happens next and remember as we discuss this we're sitting in the road directly behind the woman that he

3 (3m 10s):
handed the car to hoping that she cannot hear us because of the noise of the plane, which is louder than you might think so I had her the card and then I my hands were Sweaty and shaky. So for about about a minute, I just sort of was paralyzed. Eventually, she had to me the card back. And slight not of their head didn't say a word. That then I asked her are you okay with this and that are tone change? It's not a very cranky and said yeah, you don't see me moving my seat back to you and then you don't have sitting next to each other.

3 (3m 54s):
You wrote a little note on a piece of paper. Do you want to just read what it said? Yeah, I wrote a little note because I couldn't really talk then, you know, my notes said I feel like a total dick right now. I mean, how do you how would you feel do what you feel comfortable doing this? Me now. Now we have something just to be have taken and you're just gonna pull up and I I will immediately start looking for cues in their behavior beyond the card that there are dick.

3 (4m 38s):
I'd be like I'd be looking for extra reasons to hate them. So yeah, I'm conflicted right now because hey I got some space here. My knees feel good. I'm still being a dick. Yeah, I'm getting away with it. Well you getting away with it in the sense that you heard chair is up, but you're not getting away with it in a sense of she probably thinks you're a dick. Absolutely true. Yeah, this is not the kind of getting away with it. The most want

2 (5m 8s):
most of us want Total getting away with it, which means we don't

3 (5m 13s):
just get our way in addition. Nobody thinks badly of us, you know, nobody judges. That's what we want. That's just as true for grown men as for little boys. Do you think you're going to use the courtesy card and the Knee Defender again? I will absolutely use the Knee Defender again. The card I don't think I'm ever going to use this again. No, I feel too bad. So basically your hope is going to be that the people when they try to push their seat back. They're just going to think. Oh the seats broken. Yeah. Yeah. Basically I'm going to be a sneak be tricky let them believe the seats broken.

2 (5m 53s):
I totally relate to that choice. I think lots of us are like this sneaks on a plane if we can get away with something completely with no one ever knowing nobody judging us and just as important. Nobody really hurt. We give it a shot today in our program. We have stories of people sneaking their way through putting one over getting away with it. Some people justifying it by saying they're doing it for others for the greater good some not bothering with that. They just don't care. We have a dad howling marijuana for the sake of his family. We have you our listeners setting things on fire and cheating in school. We have politicians lying in a wholesale and utterly effective way for the sake of four-year-olds.

2 (6m 33s):
this like one

3 (6m 45s):
take your kid to work day.

2 (6m 47s):
Of course the most important thing if you want to get away with some kind of wrongdoing is that you have a plan a foolproof well-thought-out plan with safeguards and contingencies along the way to guard against everything you could think of that could possibly possibly go wrong Domingo Martinez has this story about his parents and planner. There's using Years Ago by 1986 dad become a truck driver with nothing left to haul but marijuana through his early 30s. He could do little with the trucking business. He'd inherited from Grandpa Except watch as a crumbled around him back. Then he began his days by throwing open the door to the bedroom. I shared my brother Dan he'd stand there in his underwear looking like a tall diaper child and say you to get up he would end the day drinking a lot of dollar fifty Budweiser's at The Shanty bars that littered the port of Brownsville at home.

2 (7m 40s):
Mom kept the bookkeeping. She watched the flow of money slowed to a trickle. Then stop out right when I was in Middle School my brother sisters and I knew things were dire. When our mother stop shopping at El Centro Supermarket the nice grocery store as she's always told us and started bringing home bags from Lopez Supermarket the poor people grocery store. One morning, Mom surprises me by showing up at my seventh grade algebra class and removing me getting us on the road out of Brownsville headed north. There's no explanation Cynthia kiete she snaps at me sit down and shut up.

3 (8m 27s):
They don't know why I didn't guess what we were doing that morning that Mom and I were Lookouts for

2 (8m 31s):
dad who was on the road somewhere behind us in one of his flat nose tractor trailers

3 (8m 36s):
carrying a large load of marijuana and headed north.

2 (8m 39s):
I had heard the stories new some of the tactics of

3 (8m 42s):
smuggling by this point, but I didn't make the connection that Mom and I were driving ahead of

2 (8m 46s):
dad to make sure the custom station was closed

3 (8m 49s):
and if it happened to be open we were supposed

2 (8m 51s):
to turn back and warn him. This was back in the 1980s before the Patriot Act when there were two US Customs checkpoints blocking the

3 (8m 59s):
migration of drugs fruit people reptiles and parrots on the roads between the United States and

2 (9m 5s):
Mexico both about 100 miles north of the Mexican border at Highway chokepoints the station on Highway 77 and

3 (9m 13s):
Sarita was the busier and the better financed the checkpoint in Hebbronville low was an Airstream trailer with an attached carport to protect the agents from the sun and it would often closed for breakfast or lunch.

2 (9m 25s):
So we were headed towards that one this morning

3 (9m 27s):
going north on Highway 281 driving through the scenery of asthmatic plants and stunted trees.

2 (9m 33s):
The car is hot no air conditioning. My mom and I are saying nothing to one another we have each decided that the other is Unworthy of conversation. We stare out the windows and think very different things.

3 (9m 49s):
Mom is thinking

2 (9m 50s):
about the hundred dollars. She and Dad hats bet before six o'clock that morning. One hundred dollars that would help them make $2,000 if things went right because their first stop on this felony Excursion was to Dad's good on Dara whom we knew as La Senora that's personal witch doctor for an emergency session. They were let right through at 5:00 in the morning and they had only one burning question. Will the checkpoint be open after years of sitting through these sessions with my grandmother. I didn't have to be there to know exactly how it went in the good on that has office. Listen. Yoda is older matronly dresses in a thin frocked with her hair pulled back in a bun. She has my parents sit across from her desk in a black leather love seat with chrome handles a panorama photos.

2 (10m 35s):
Hang around her office some wallet-sized others larger and in portrait a pencil sketch of a Camaro by one of her grandson's hangs next to a window. She listens closely to their question nodding sleepily at their preoccupation sympathizing understanding they've reached a decision and they can't turn back. They tell her they need to do it no other choice anymore. She stands up abruptly and walks behind her desk, which is cluttered with sheets of notebook paper crawling with ink illegible notes names of people sets of cryptic numbers home addresses of saints. She closes her eyes and scribbled something on a yellow legal pad nonsense to anyone else reading it on her desk are too cheap leaded crystal bottles each filled with a clear liquid.

2 (11m 21s):
She gently reaches for a matching shot glass and lifts it to the light making it Sparkle. She places the glass on the surface before her and pours from one bottle. Then the other when the to clear liquids mix, they turn a deep crimson and thicken like plasma she nods her head as if her suspicions have been confirmed. She produces a glass orb filled with water sitting on a black plastic ring. She should substrate closes her eyes and regulates her breathing into a loud rhythmic inhalation exhalation that unconsciously forces mom and dad to do the same. After a few seconds, she opens her eyes suddenly and Strikes the glass orb with a metal

3 (12m 1s):
wand making it ring in the clear morning air.

2 (12m 5s):
Then she lifts. You are between her two pudgy hands and stairs deeply into the inverted image of the room around it. Sitting opposite this chicanery and watching everything. She does you're drawn to the

3 (12m 16s):
ritual and you can't help but try to figure it out, too.

2 (12m 20s):
No, she says with certainty the checkpoint will not be open this morning

3 (12m 25s):
go in. Peace God be with you.

2 (12m 36s):
When Mom and I reach a checkpoint at 11:45 that morning it is very much open for business a line of cars five deep stretches back from the under-budgeted Airstream trailer, our job now is to go through and then turn back around and report to Dad that is Doom was indeed imminent. Mom is visibly shaken she turns off the radio with a hard click and considers this considers her options. From the car we can see a skinny middle-aged white guy in green border patrol Garb sitting on a reclining chair in the open doorway of the Airstream trailer. He's facing the cars as they pass under the tin roof. It must have been a hundred ten degrees inside the trailer a hundred in the shade.

2 (13m 18s):
From his position never bothering to get up the agents. Its founding himself with the newspaper and sleepily peers into the cars asking if everyone is an American citizen waiting for an accented answer smiling and then waving them through like a sympathetic priest granting absolution. Hi, we all go in today s a skinny little man mom's window is now only halfway open and her nervousness. She rolls it all the way up high. Sorry, I mean San Antonio as she opens a window you all American citizens. Yes. She says as she leans back so he could get a clear. Look at me nodding my head. I don't say anything except the quiet.

2 (13m 59s):
Yep, when I nod but he has not heard me there was an uncomfortable pause I think because they're supposed to hear your accent. There was an anxious speech and he still hasn't let us go when I say, yes, I am a bit too enthusiastically mom. Laughs nervously. She had been hoping our light-skinned would exonerate us without a problem. Y'all have a nice day. He says like he hasn't noticed anything awkward. We drive through and I feel her seeds for the next few miles. That was about noon somewhere behind us at a roadside rest.

2 (14m 40s):
Stop dad. And my older brother Dan are waiting in Dad's tractor trailer, which is attached to the trailer with the marijuana the two Center. I beams that run the length of the trailer make perfect housing. Once you weld metal plates all along the underside and at the tail end it creates a long rectangular box sealed at the rear end with the axle of the rig. We're 20 40 pound blocks of marijuana can be hidden. This is what Dad and Dad are

3 (15m 6s):
carrying.

2 (15m 15s):
I wondered dimly if Dan is figured out what he's doing out here on

3 (15m 19s):
the road north when you should be in high school, but Dan is always been more

2 (15m 23s):
StreetWise much savvier than me. I figure that if I figured it out key to figured it out long

3 (15m 28s):
before Mom and I drove onto Hebbronville. I'm dehydrated. I want to stop at a store.

2 (15m 41s):
We can't she says to me we have to turn back. I think we're behind the still I'm hungry and really thirsty. So I persist certainly we have time to get your convenience store. They can't have scheduled a sting to hinge on a few minutes. Certainly. They devised this more cleverly than that, please I played just stop at the

3 (15m 59s):
7-Eleven grudgingly. She Pilots the noisy car around the small town and finds a convenient store.

2 (16m 5s):
I get out with a couple of dollars and come. Short when I try paying for some donuts and a chocolate milk, I returned to the car for more money just get in Shields and I do leaving the food at the counter. Mom whoops the car around and I'm in

3 (16m 18s):
trouble used to it by now. We travel like that for a few minutes and when the checkpoint is

2 (16m 31s):
back in sight we hold our breath so the guy won't see us and right then we see Dad and Dan and the trailer heading right for the checkpoint. That has become nervous or maybe Brave or maybe he was blinded by his hundred dollar faith in his good on Dara and a charge forth without waiting for moms report. Oh God, my mother says and all the blood drains from my face from just a tone in her voice. I had never heard her voice. So charged with fear. Oh God. She says again with her left hand. She grabs a knob that controls the headlights and flashes at dad who was only a few hundred feet from the checkpoint. She flashes four times in clear view of anyone who was paying attention.

2 (17m 13s):
I wonder if that is her signal that the checkpoint is open. But question the wisdom of doing it while he is next in line in full view of the guy at the checkpoint. Were he to look over his shoulder and see the noisy southbound car that just drove through not 30 minutes before she slows down slows terrifically down going less than 20 miles per hour on the highway. And for a moment I can see Dad is driving. I can see that the blood is drained from his face to making his eyebrow stand out a rich black on his pallid deathly white forehead a mask of someone pretending desperately that everything is A-Okay but doing it horrific lie badly. I see Dan in the passenger seat holding onto the handrail above the door as a means to steady himself through this craziness through the stupid unnecessary risk, and he looks calm collected uncaring.

2 (18m 4s):
Like he isn't

3 (18m 4s):
there.

2 (18m 16s):
There are no cars ahead of them. Now. The trailer is next in line. It slows to a crawl and I could see Dad desperately trying to ignore the crazy flashing noisy Bonneville rattling through the southbound lane keeping his eyes fixed to the road pretending like he isn't smuggling anything in the empty trailer behind him this empty useless trailer with the i-beams all sealed up with the two Mexican men driving it with no obvious destination. No paperwork no affiliation with any hauling or Trucking Company. No sir. Not trafficking in drugs. Just driving through to Houston. Probably looking for work. Oh, yes. We're American citizens. That's not why we're nervous. We could prove that that's nothing.

2 (18m 58s):
We're nervous because of the pot were hiding and because we're only getting two thousand dollars for risking upwards of 10 years in prison, isn't that funny? Isn't that just a sterile? But the skinny white guy is having lunch and can't be bothered. and one of the weirder moments of this whole debacle The Bonneville the Airstream and Dad's tractor are all lined up like some Cosmic event and we see the skinny border patrol agent with a white napkin tucked under his chin and Dad's bloodless face up in the trailer through the window of the Airstream as the agent waves him through with a fork like he's conducting an

3 (19m 36s):
orchestra go on through go on through Mom continues driving South stunned by what has just happened and

2 (19m 55s):
I'm careful not to say a word. We almost reach Raymondville and stop at a Whataburger to get a quick wordless lunch then spend some time sitting in

3 (20m 3s):
a parking lot waiting

2 (20m 5s):
when she feels it is safe to return to turn the car around and heads back North back through the same

3 (20m 10s):
checkpoint. Are you sure this is safe. I asked she doesn't answer.

2 (20m 20s):
When we pull up again to the checkpoint headed back to have been Ville around three o'clock. There was a different border patrol agent at the Airstream. He is a small clean-cut militant Mexican with a Southern drawl. Y'all American citizens he demands instantly leading into the car through the window clearly smelling for marijuana smoke. Oh, yes says my mother who was probably quite relieved the hard part is over and it looks like we're getting away with it. How about you son you American citizen. He gives me a direct glare through reflective sunglasses. There is nothing more potentially hostile than the indigenous ego interpreting the laws of his conquer upon his own people.

2 (21m 1s):
Yes, sir. I say careful not to move or fidget or look away. Like I've learned. He looks back at my mother. Then at me like he smells the nervousness of earlier something tugs at his intuition. Where y'all headed the sunglasses finally asked this catches mom off guard her subterfuge had ended when dad had driven through the checkpoint. She left all her answers back and Raymondville. We're going to Hebbronville. She says unconvincingly had he asked one more question had he pressed it. We would have been in some sort of trouble. But he doesn't and he backs off and motions us through mom drives a noisy car through Hebbronville and we are about to hit the open Highway again when we noticed dad's trailer in the parking lot of a cheap motel by the side of the road.

2 (21m 53s):
My brother is lodged between the rearmost tires working on the brake lights that ridiculously art working. Mom is as alarm to find them there as I am. This confirms my suspicion that there had been no planning beyond the consultation at the Quran that has this whole debacle had been based on nothing more than a hundred dollars worth of faith. Mom pulls up next to the trailer and I think she expects the Victorious reunions when he sees her dad suddenly looks like he's about to punch her stupid woman heels at her in Spanish. Mom stops cold. What were you thinking if they would have just turned around for a moment? It would all be over and it would all be your fault. He spits out her in Spanish. We realize what he's upset about the flashing headlights.

2 (22m 36s):
His words continue to snap in his around her like bullets in a firefight and she follows him forward to the cab of the truck kowtowing to her punishment lucky for us. Lesson. Yoda was right Dad says walking back with Mom now excited and seemingly over his anger. She made him blind and we would let through like they were

3 (22m 54s):
closed.

2 (23m 6s):
When we left them later that evening Dan was doing the driving they pulled out of the parking lot and headed off to Houston and they pay off the brake lights temporarily fixed and dupes of black electrical tape. I watch is a truck disappears. It looks like every other piece of now broken down equipment we've ever owned rusting miserable and totally Criminal. Mom and I turned South back to Brownsville. Mom is our usual quiet self. Except this time. She plays the radio louder this means she's

3 (23m 36s):
thinking

2 (23m 38s):
it's getting dark and I'm sleepy so I sleep she'll get us home. She knows the way. For that I could trust her. Domingo Martinez reading a story from his collection The Boy kings of Texas which is a memoir and a finalist for the national book award that to get away with it after the beep. So today's show is a rerun a couple weeks before it originally was broadcast. We invited listeners to call into a special phone number that we set up here at the radio show and tell us what things you have gotten away with over a thousand of you called are in turn back then tarek listen to his messages and he said that he came away from the experiencing you all very very differently than he had before.

2 (24m 29s):
He said that if these messages are any indicator at all most of your either cheated in school or committed some small Act of arson at some point in your lives so good to know. I know we should try to capitalize on that during the pledge drive. I have no idea how but anyway, here's a small selection of the messages. We

3 (24m 47s):
received we found new ways of cheating on tests home. We're not proud of it. Well, at least I'm not proud of it. But it's what we did. We learn Morse code with tap during class. I by All rights should not have graduated and I shouldn't have gone to college which is what a lot of happening. I got away with graduating high school by lying to my being and telling her that I had HIV my sophomore year of high school. I turned in a stick for my final project and I'm embarrassed to tell you and I got away with a little bit of extortion it suggested to him that if I could pass his class to the much better grade that what I saw in the super age, which they just between us.

3 (25m 46s):
Entering the church. We saw a giant earthworm on the ground in the parking lot. I picked it up and put it in my pocket and before the service started my brother and I were playing with it by herself. My brother dared me to put it in the care of a girl in front of us and and I decided to do it. So I food in her hair, but because her hair is so frizzy. It was the 80s that the worm disappeared and she didn't feel anything my got away with being the featured speaker and a seminar to which I was not even invited. I'd like to tell you how I got away with posing as the president's cousin to get Health Care at a hospital in Tajikistan. It's looks incredible rush because you know, it worked I was able to act my way out of being murdered.

3 (26m 28s):
I was parked at a stoplight next to a girls trying to impress and I decided to race her from stoplight to stoplight. So I slammed on the Later, and just as I was flying past her a cop is going the other way. So he does a U-turn I make a quick right down the side street open. He'll chase the girl. But of course you didn't he came after me. So I made another quick write up an Alleyway. He was still coming after me. So like swooped in behind a garage jumped out of my car ran through some people's yards across the main street of Sherman Avenue and wondering what I'm going to do on that without a car and the police are looking for me. So I saw another cop car parked at a parking lot of the professional building and and I ran over and I said, oh my God, somebody just stole my car.

3 (27m 26s):
We thought it would be fun to try to make flank with Growers with WD-40 and lighter and you know, I didn't want to tell them or anybody else because of time on 19 in could get in trouble for artists and so I get that story to myself I knew is I actually went back to the spot where we I had smoke that cigarette with a friend and sure enough that part of the ground was black and and I was like, yep and potentially I feel horrible about this now, but I ended up getting away with it. I kept it to myself and this is the first time I'm revealing that secret got away with it and the rest of the night just giggling and eating junk food like you do.

3 (28m 21s):
Okay, we have one final story from a listener kind of a long one. I went to an active Conservatory in New York City for two years and they told me about a month before graduation that it wouldn't be happening for me. I was like a credit and a half or two credit Shanghai and I was like, this is not a problem figured. I'd find a way to work it out. I actually think I thought I would Ferris Bueller it somehow and actually be able to get my diploma. I just kept telling my parents everything was fine and they made plans to come to New York and go to the graduation and they were going to make a whole weekend trip of the thing and they came to town and I knew I was not going to be able to walk and my name was not going to be called so I sort of Just planted things in their mind all week and like, you know here the graduations four hours long.

3 (29m 18s):
I hear a lot of people aren't going and made sure they got extremely drunk the night before and would be hungover. The next day. The graduation was at one. We're all dressed up and ready to go. I was like, you know what let's just skip it. What's have a good day in New York and go do something fun instead so they bought it and we just went out in New York and I told my parents that I ended up getting a diploma in the mail to my apartment months later and to this day they still think I graduated from college when I didn't interesting side note.

3 (29m 59s):
The only person I've ever told that you in my family with my brother after he came out of the closet and told me he was gay and I figured I'd tell him my big secret to and he went right and told my sister. Because that way if I never doubted him, he'd be able to say I was huge liar. So they go thanks to everybody who took the time to call. See you all in hell. Coming up twelve-year-old ballerina con

2 (30m 39s):
artists, you know, I have a whole thing written here to make you want to listen to the story but like that that should be enough right like that. That is enough right there. I'm just going to say it again twelve-year-old. Ballerina con artists. Come on. You can't turn away without hearing that that's coming up in just a minute. I'm chuggabug radio when I program continues.

ZipRecruiter (31m 0s):
Support for This American Life comes from zip recruiter. Zip recruiter sends your job to over 100 of the web's leading job boards, but they don't stop there with their powerful matching technology. Zip recruiter scans thousands of resumes to find people with the right experience and invites them to apply to your job. It's so effective that four out of five employers who post get a quality candidate within the first day you can try zip recruiter for free at zip recruiter.com American zip recruiter the smartest way to hire

Rocket Mortgage (31m 32s):
and from rocket mortgage by Quicken Loans providing you with an award winning team by your side through the mortgage process. Their goal is to make the home buying process smoother for you with a history of Industry leading online lending technology developed in Detroit rocket mortgage is changing the game visit rocket mortgage.com American Equal Housing lender licensed in all 50 states and MLS consumer access dot-org. number 30 30 rocket mortgage by Quicken Loans push button get mortgage

2 (32m 6s):
This American Life from Ira Glass each week a new program. Of course, you choose a theme bring you different kinds of stories on that theme Today Show getting away with it. We have stories of people doing just that and usually not feeling so bad about it. We've arrived it back three of our program at three crime and tutus. Okay parents, I would actually warn you to not to let your kids here this next story except the thing that the children in this next story accomplished would be impossible for any kids do today. Basically, they go to the airport and they try to hop on a plane to go to another city the comedian Molly Shannon told what happened to Marc Maron on his podcast WTF, which is a great podcast. They did this in front of a live audience in November 2011.

2 (32m 49s):
I have to plane when I was 12. We told my dad meet my friend and were like we're going to have a plane to New York and I was like he dared us. Yeah. So we how old were you we were like 12. Oh good that's good. We went to the airport and we had ballet outfit on and we put our hair in bonds. We wanted to look really innocent and Again, when flying was really easy, you didn't eat your ticket to get through and we told my dad and we were just like we saw there were two flights. We were either gonna go to San Francisco or New York, and we thought well, let's go to the New York. It's leaving early. So we went we should do the Stewart as we just want to say goodbye to my sister company go on the plane, and she was like sure and then she let us on and it was a really empty flight because it was out of, Cleveland, Ohio, and we sat back there and then all of a sudden you just you're like plane take off a little ballet of its and buns and I was like Hail Mary full of grace.

2 (33m 36s):
The Lord is with thee blessed and then the stewardess that had given us permission to to go say goodbye to him by to my sister came by to ask if it is we wanted snacks or Beverages, and she was like, can I get you ladies something to eat? She looked like she was like, you know, so we wonder if you're going to get in trouble, but she ended up not telling anyone and then when we landed in New York City, she was like bye

3 (34m 3s):
ladies. It's

2 (34m 6s):
true. I just don't like it's such an exciting story. But the irresponsibility of all the adults in this story is somehow undermining my appreciation of it. You were 12 year old girls and ballet outfits and everybody sort of like having a good time. What world was that the crazy world? What did you do in New York? Well again because I had a crazy childhood we call my daddy. You're like we did it Molly. Oh, she's will try to so basically he could ride a what he didn't know what to do. He said try to see if you could stay go find a hotel that you could stand my God me and marry.

2 (34m 49s):
My sister will come meet you will drive there. So basically we were like, alright, we'll try to find a hotel but he was kind of excited because he liked crazy stuff. But basically we didn't have that much. We just had our belly bags and a little bit of cash that we went to a diner and we dined and - and we stole things we were like, Con artists wait, did you actually make it to the city? We made it to the city. I was like, why do you get to Rockefeller Center? Because I just seen TV, you know, nobody said are you girls lost nothing like that? Nothing so we did try to go to hotels and my dad would call and ask could they just stay there till we get there and none of the hotels wanted to be responsible. Oh my God, so he was like, oh, you gotta come home. He was like, I'm not paying for it. So try to hop on one on the way

3 (35m 30s):
back.

2 (35m 32s):
So we tried to hop on many planes, but it was the flights were also crowded. So we ended up having to have him pay for it. He made us pay it all back with our babysitting money. That was the big punishment.

3 (35m 45s):
There was no

2 (35m 46s):
punishment know I know clearly yeah love that kind of stuff. Like I said, he was wild he used to I Love The the sort of strange nostalgic excitement you have

3 (35m 56s):
her for this borderline child abuse.

2 (36m 5s):
Molly Shannon talking to Marc Maron on the WTF podcast, which I recommend in which you can find on iTunes or through an internet search. We spoke with the other girl in that story who has not talked with my channel while didn't know that she was telling that story publicly who confirmed all the crazy details in the story. She says they held hands and prayed while the plane took

3 (36m 23s):
off

2 (36m 34s):
for pre-k. Oh, To understand this next story which is definitely a story about getting away with it in a big big way. I first need to give you some background About Preschool in recent years. There's been more and more studies showing the preschool is one of the best investments that country can make in children's education. Probably the most famous piece of research on this is an old one called the Perry preschool project the study began in the 1960s. They took a bunch of poor kids from Ypsilanti, Michigan put half of them into a preschool program and then the other half, you know, just LED their normal lives and then after a year that both of those groups went back into the same public school system and then every so often researchers would follow up with these kids to see how they were doing from the two groups the following them still even now and the results have been amazing at age 27 the kids who got preschool were half as likely to have gotten arrested.

2 (37m 26s):
They under an average of 50 percent more per month. They were 50 percent more likely to have a savings account 20 percent more likely to have a car preschool kids got sick less often one employed less often. Since to incarceration is often other studies show similar results, not just for poor kids, but for other kids too, they do better if they have preschool and the very first state to choose to make free high-quality preschool available to almost every four-year-old in the state and then actually delivered on that promise turns out to be a surprising one fact only a handful of states have joined it Alex Bloomberg reports that the story of how the state came to lead. The nation in preschool access is all about getting away with it quick reminder before we start Today's Show is a rerun from a few years ago since we did this story some details of Oklahoma's political landscape have changed.

2 (38m 16s):
Here's Alex. The state is Oklahoma and to show you just how surprising that is consider. What happened to guy named. Ron Peters Peters was a freshman legislator in the Oklahoma State House of Representatives Republican one of his party leaders of Veteran legislator came up to me one day and said the governor also a republican appointed this task force. To look into the issue of early childhood education. They came up with some recommendations. The recommendations were put into this bill. The governor wants us to pass it. Will you be in charge of making that happen? I mean, it's Verde. It was pretty mundane Bill to start out with its set up a public private partnership set up a private foundation on Peter said sure the bill seemed easy to pass and pretty non-controversial.

2 (38m 58s):
There were no State funds involved. It was all private money. The idea was simply to set up a non-profit to publicize the value of early childhood education. So more parents would consider it. So we introduced the bill on the house floor. I didn't really think anybody would bite it. I mean, how do you debate, you know, just to private sector was going to raise money to fund the word this program. So, I mean you couldn't argue about this in spend State money, but when they said will be debate about seven hands on my side of the island up to debate against it. This is the nanny State build. Governor's going to come take our kids and raising Forest. We think kids should be raised by the mom and

3 (39m 34s):
dad.

2 (39m 42s):
When I select it, I thought was rustling Martin car night and I got the legislators like who the heck are those people over there? So you think there's anybody right of you hon? Hello? No. No, but they're up there the whole whole bunch of

3 (39m 56s):
them. I got it passed and it passed the house passed the Senate and then all the people

2 (40m 9s):
started getting letters from the far right wing saying to the governor. This is the nanny State Bill.

3 (40m 18s):
Why would you take our kids from the hospital and take

2 (40m 19s):
them to you to race force

3 (40m 22s):
and he got he

2 (40m 23s):
got scared a little bit I guess and you know, he told his own task force bill. So like

3 (40m 33s):
I was I was terribly upset.

2 (40m 39s):
Actually, the governor only threatened a veto but it was enough to kill Peter's bill that time around and that is how unlikely it is to pass Universal public preschool in Oklahoma a bill that simply suggest that the state might think it's a good idea for kids to go to preschool a bill remember that doesn't involve any state money and doesn't actually set up any new government programs that Bill gets attacked as socialism and scuttled. Oklahoma is arguably the most conservative state in the country. It's got a republican house Republican senator Republican governor for out of its five representatives to Congress are Republicans as are both it Senators. One of those Senators. Tom Coburn was named the most conservative senator in Congress by National Review magazine.

2 (41m 21s):
And if you need more proof consider this Oklahoma was the only state in the entire country in 2008. We're not one single County voted for Barack Obama. So how in the world that anyone get the conservative state of Oklahoma to agree to a dramatic expansion of the state's public education system in preschool something that many conservatives would oppose. How did anyone get away with that? The answer Universal public preschool came to Oklahoma not as part of a bold evidence-based campaign. It was snuck in in the dark and to give you a sense of just how secretly it happened consider this rather amazing fact at the time. Ron Peters was getting his little Bill squashed by his own.

2 (42m 2s):
Party in the legislature Universal preschool was already in place in Oklahoma. It had been voted into law three years earlier. But Angela by many of the same people who are accusing Ron Peters of socialism. And what's more they had probably voted for that law without even realizing it which is exactly the way the people who brought public preschool to Oklahoma wanted it. The Story begins in the late 1990s and it begins with a seemingly unrelated issue School superintendents around Oklahoma had discovered a loophole in the state's school funding formula and we're using that loophole to run a little scheme that involved the kindergarten classes and huge amounts of money.

2 (42m 47s):
So the scheme was it was legal in Oklahoma for schools to have either a full day or a half-day kindergarten program the loophole was that schools got paid the same amount from the state either way. And so what school districts began doing was running to half day programs and collecting twice as much money and if they couldn't find enough five-year-olds to fill to kindergarten classes, they would pad their numbers with four-year-olds. We we got right in the middle at very very early. Lloyd snow was a school superintendent at this time who took advantage of this loophole ran to half-day kindergardens enrolled a bunch of four-year-olds got paid double from the It was like a no-brainer to not only be able to do this put it in play and then have money left over for others.

2 (43m 36s):
So desperately needed underfunding educational processes. Yeah. I mean it was it was a good thing and we haven't had very many good thing good things in public schools in my estimation. So I didn't blink twice all around the state the scheme spread four year olds were like gold and the extra money. They brought in went everything from football programs to New School equipment even new buildings. That's what happened in the district of Joe Eddins a state legislator around this time. There was so much money came with these children the school district bought What we call portable classrooms a big mobile home, you know, that's you pluck it together and and you've got a nice classroom prefab here.

2 (44m 23s):
They bought the the building's paid cash for them with the money the first year. Yeah. I mean it's it's that much gravy and then from then on they got to use the buildings in essence free now might sound like Joe was happy about this, but he wasn't the seem like a loophole that people were abusing and so for two years he tried to close it to keep four-year-olds out of kindergarten but he got nowhere and Joe Eddins he becomes Central to the story of universal preschool in Oklahoma. You'll hear a lot more from him later after he meets this next guy another main character in The Saga a guy named Bob Harbison.

2 (45m 3s):
Bob Harbison is a self-described corporate guy conservative suits tortoiseshell glasses. He was for many years a senior manager at TWA and after that an executive in the oil and gas

3 (45m 14s):
It

2 (45m 15s):
is also friends with people on the board of the Tulsa Chamber of Commerce. And one day a banker friend of mine. That was the incoming president of the chamber brought me up. He said I want to talk to you about a project we've been working on at the chamber and he said that a started in 1990. They had put together a little task force to evaluate Workforce Development issues because they were going through Tulsa was going through a pretty explosive growth period the banker friend explained that local businesses and Tulsa had a problem. They were finding it harder and harder to hire employees with enough skills and abilities to do the job.

2 (45m 59s):
The chamber had been looking into the reasons for this was a colleges and universities not training people properly high schools. They kept working back to this notion of children increasing numbers of children not being Ready for school this Banker friend handed Bob a cardboard box filled with research and reports on early childhood education. It's an here look the silver and see what you think. We should do working through this cardboard box of materials in a cubicle at the the chamber they and the staff had accumulated literature on the subject and I became familiar with the Perry preschool study.

2 (46m 47s):
And you remember reading those studies like was that sort of an aha moment. We are reading like these long-term effects of preschool. Was that what do you remember your mindset? Then as you're moving through I tended to frame things in terms of my business experience. You know, I just it was just sort of automatic Harbison said he thought back to his career in the airline industry where one of the worst things you can do is fly a plane with an empty seat. A kid who comes to kindergarten too far behind statistically that kid might never catch up. He's occupying that seat and first second third grade in Middle School and High School, but the seat might as well be empty for all the good it's doing the kids sitting in it.

2 (47m 29s):
And also he thought when you look at the statistics of what happens to a lot of at-risk kids when they get out of school, they end up costing the government a lot of money, they end up incarcerated or on public assistance bad outcomes for them and for society. I always thought about if if there was a business or a group of businesses, and they had agreed to pay for all the outcomes. They would be spending money on prevention this cardboard box made a big impression on Bob Harbison who in his quiet way became something of a crusader for early childhood education making the case for it to anyone who would listen including some time in the late 1990s Joe Eddins.

2 (48m 10s):
Remember Joe was this legislator. He had this bill trying to close that loophole and keep four-year-olds out of kindergarten Bob Harbison started making the case that we don't want fewer four-year-olds in public school. We want more of them. Here's Joe. Bob

3 (48m 24s):
Harbison is well. You know how smooth Bob Harbison is Indians? You know what? I mean? I never knew I was being lobbied if I was being lobbied. I just thought boy this Bob harvesting is telling me the things I need to know

2 (48m 37s):
which incidentally Bob Harbison was telling the truth,

3 (48m 43s):
but that that was the key

2 (48m 46s):
that that Bob harvison

3 (48m 47s):
found me a willing pupil and taught me all I know.

2 (48m 52s):
No

3 (48m 53s):
about four year olds

2 (48m 58s):
over the course of several meetings Bob shared with Joe the contents of that cardboard box all those studies and research projects demonstrating the importance of early childhood education and Joe gradually decided that he needed to change his law and make it much bigger. He would still eliminate that four-year-olds in kindergarten for cash scheme. Sure, no longer could schools pack their kindergarten with four-year-olds to get extra money from the state but alongside that he would provide for an actual program for four-year-olds an entirely new grade fully paid for by the state public preschool and turned out Oklahoma had a very good pilot preschool program with guidelines for choosing the appropriate curriculum and hiring qualified teachers, but this program only existed in a few districts because according to Eddins the state didn't provide enough money to pay for it Eddins estimates the state provided only a third of the money that was actually needed to run one of these programs Joe Adams plan.

2 (49m 52s):
Was to take that pilot program and fully fund it so that any District that wanted it could actually get paid enough to put it in place. Now, there was only one problem with this plan. There's probably no way it could pass. No way the state legislature would ever agree to pay for a program like this. And so Joe Eddins essentially hit it. He simply offered his Amendment again, the one closing the four-year-olds and kindergarten for cash loophole only with some new language a kind of PS in which he proposed a tweak to the state's school funding formula made it so that schools got the same amount of funding for preschool that they got four other grades. This was in fact a massive overhaul of Oklahoma's Public School System, but the actual text of Eddins Amendment look like nothing special the way you amend the bill the staff takes the sections of law.

2 (50m 48s):
That you're amending and then write your amendments in underlined and line out what you are deleting language and I just had a few words here and a few words there. Still there were the traditional and Powerful enemies to something like this budget Hawks and limited government folks which as I said Oklahoma might lead the nation in edin strategy here political sleight of hand. He drew their attention to the stuff in the bill. He thought they would like and didn't mention the stuff. They wouldn't I probably sat down at their desk with each Republican and showed him two or three things in the bill that I thought they ought to know and what would those things?

2 (51m 31s):
Well, I showed him where it's we're keeping four-year-olds out of kindergarten. We're saving enormous amounts of money, you can contract with private providers and they love that. That's all I said.

3 (51m 51s):
Now

2 (51m 51s):
everything he said was true ends Bill did allow State money to go to private day care centers to teach preschool. Also his plan was voluntary School District didn't have to offer Pre-K programs and parents didn't have to send their kids to 1. So it was entirely reasonable to expect that in the beginning at least not too many school districts would even take advantage of evidence tweak to the funding formula and offer a pre-k program and one other thing Adams had going for him this four year olds in kindergarten for cash scheme. It was growing and it was feared that the two biggest districts in the state Oklahoma City and Tulsa were about to get in on it. Eden says that compared to the sure Financial Armageddon. That would be his bill was the cheaper alternative.

2 (52m 32s):
Everybody could see that my bill was way cheaper than not my bill if you voted no on my bill and killed it you were going to have enormous enrollment of Year olds in kindergarten and this was taking an immense amount of money and all but one voted. Yes on the bill probably because in almost all his discussions with lawmakers about his bill Eddins left out the main part, you know the part about how he'd put the state on the hook to pay for an entirely new grade level.

2 (53m 11s):
He knew almost nobody in any legislature actually reads all the bills and the number of people who actually understood Oklahoma's school funding formula, you could probably count on one hand and his strategy worked. It was a huge and costly expansion of the government's role in public education and a state more opposed to costly expansions of government than perhaps any other in the country Stephen Dow is the director of an anti-poverty agency and a long time early childhood education advocate in Oklahoma. He worked very closely with Joe Eddins to get this law written and passed. I think it's fair to say that the number of people that understood what was going on. On in terms of the adjustment to the state aid formula that most certainly you could you could count the number of people that were aware of that on one hand now if there had been if everybody in the state was aware of it.

2 (54m 4s):
Would it have passed I I don't know that I would say that I think it's likely that it would have passed. Basically if you guys hadn't Schnucks proficient in I would say had the fake head the enactment of universal Pre-K not been done through this what I would call stealth campaign. I think it's fair to say that it would not have been

3 (54m 29s):
embraced.

2 (54m 34s):
The irony is now that the law is in place in Oklahoma. It just adds evidence to the case for preschool researchers who studied Tulsa's preschool kids say they enter kindergarten an average of five months ahead in math seven months ahead and writing and nine months ahead in reading and the games are even more pronounced for at-risk kids who get preschool Lloyd snow the Oklahoma school superintendent says he didn't need a study to show him that he could see it the very next year after his district started offering preschool. I mean one year after we I mean we had have department meetings and all kinds of stuff because our kids you don't have better word recognition and letter recognition better.

2 (55m 15s):
Social skills better hand-eye coordination skills better, you know just almost better everything as it relates to Readiness for school. So now we've got all of our kids for whatever background. I mean, they're voracious Learners now don't start me with that stuff. So no maybe sees I know what yeah, so so that was kind of a game changer 4444 us and I think most schools a game changer that according to Joe Adams the legislator who arguably did more to change the game than anyone else would not have been possible without the strange four-year-olds and kindergarten for cash scheme the scheme that Eddins used as a smokescreen to sneak Universal pre-k through it.

2 (56m 4s):
Tickle legislature. I don't see it ever being funded if you had that like other states do if you had to say here's a program that we want to implement. Here's how much money it will take. Whoo. Where are you going to get the money? Okay, you know where if you would have to have a line item appropriation. Nobody would have supported it except the young mothers and they have no political clout what lessons could other states a other states want to try to do something like this prayer.

2 (56m 44s):
They don't have a prayer. They don't have a prayer.

3 (56m 48s):
Because it's expensive and their

2 (56m 52s):
state legislatures are run by people that don't want us they want to cut programs not add

3 (56m 57s):
programs.

2 (57m 6s):
Not everyone would agree with Eddins on this fact, if you talk to experts the trend around the country is for more and more kids to be enrolled in state-funded preschool programs States as diverse as Georgia, Iowa Vermont in West Virginia are all hard on the heels of Oklahoma with preschool programs of their own and as for Oklahoma parents says Lloyd's know the school superintendent. They love this program and statistics across the state bear that up remember parents don't have to send their kids to preschool. It's voluntary but almost 75 percent of the state's four-year-olds are now enrolled in public preschool. However, it arrived. It seems that Universal Pre-K is here to stay in, Oklahoma.

Gimlet Media (57m 53s):
Alex blumberg, he's the founder of gimlet media and the host of the podcast without fail.

2 (57m 58s):
We originally aired this story back when he was on our staff in 2012 Oklahoma's Universal preschool program is still going strong.

3 (58m 14s):
My

2 (58m 21s):
brother must be stay by Nancy Updike and Robin semyon with Alex blumberg Ben Calhoun Sarah Koenig Jonathan menjivar. We systolic Brian Reed and apostleship Senior producer for today's show is Julie Snyder additional production of the re-run of our show from Jessica Lawson, hop Catherine. Raimondo Stone Nelson's Matt Tierney special. Thanks today to Jim NATO Michelle Harris Bianca gave her and Brendan McDonald our website This American Life dot org is American life is devoted to public radio stations by PRX the public radio exchange

Lagunitas Brewing Company (58m 47s):
sport for This American Life comes from the Lagunitas Brewing Company healing stories and songs with Lagunitas IPA. And of course committed keeping the pub in public radio. Find out more won't you and Lagunitas.com.

2 (59m 1s):
Thanks as always for programs co-founder. Mr. Tareme, al-attiyah who is his personal vices this way. He has five vices 5 exactly five drugs fruit people. Miles and parrots. I'm Ira Glass back next week with more stories of This American Life.

2 (59m 55s):
Next week on the podcast of This American Life. Okay picture this a local Democrats Club. It's also a bar filled with Democrats watching a trump rally on TV. When all of a sudden somebody said. Oh my God, that's Ross. They spot their own Cub president at the rally. It was like The Wizard of Oz you're really a republican running a Democratic Club disagreements that may be cannot be fixed over a few beers next week on the podcast or in your local public radio

3 (1h 0m 24s):
station.