0 (0s):
Support for this American life comes from capital one with no fees or minimums on checking and savings accounts banking with capital. One is like the easiest decision in the history of decisions. Kind of like choosing to listen to your favorite song on repeat and with their top rated app, you can deposit checks and transfer money anytime, anywhere making capital one and even easier decision that's banking. Re-imagined what's in your wallet terms apply capital one and a member. See,

1 (33s):
This is Hannah.

2 (34s):
Oh, hi Hannah. This is Sarah from this American life. Hi, how are you? I'm good. Thank you. How are you? Good. Before we go any further from WB easy Chicago. It's this American life. I'm Sarah Canuck sitting in for IRA glass. And you're about to hear this story the same way I did blind. All I know is that it's going to have a coincidence in it. I have no idea what you're about to tell me, so lay it on me.

1 (57s):
So the story is I was a freshman in high school at Bozeman high school in Montana. Yes, I and I was in the orchestra and it was early in my freshman year. And I had made friends in high school, but didn't really have orchestra friends yet. And we were taking an orchestra trip. So that was a little nerve wracking.

2 (1m 22s):
When you're a freshmen, this qualifies as a Demi crisis, a long bus ride to Seattle sharing a hotel room with someone you don't know, but there's this one girl, Lindsay, she and Hannah have friends in common. So they decide to pair up to room together, ride the bus together to be orchestra friends.

1 (1m 37s):
So we go to Seattle and we're like, it's awkward. You know? Cause we're like new friends trying to get to know each other. And on one of our free days, they send us to the space needle. And I don't know if you've ever been to the space needle, but there's that like carnival area all around it. And we were playing the little games all around there and we won pooper troopers. Do you know what those are? They're like the little plastic soldiers that have a plastic parachute and you're supposed to drop them from somewhere and the plastic parachutes sort of expands. And what did you call them?

1 (2m 18s):
Pooping troopers.

2 (2m 21s):
I didn't quite believe Hannah about this, but she looked it up. It's true. Hoopa troopers.

1 (2m 26s):
I just did a Google image search for a group of troopers. And I'm seeing images of the little guys.

2 (2m 31s):
Oh wait, is it a generic name or is it a brand

1 (2m 33s):
Name? I think it's a brand name. I think from what I'm seeing here, Imperial pooper troopers,

2 (2m 41s):
His Highness four-star general puppetry.

1 (2m 44s):
Yeah, exactly.

2 (2m 48s):
Back to the blood here, Hannah and her new friend, Lindsay go to the top of the Seattle space needle to try out their prizes.

1 (2m 54s):
So we, we got in the little elevator and ran to the top and ran to the edge and through the Poobah troopers over the edge because there's nothing to stop you real really? And we were just like in peels of laughter and it was, we thought it was so hilarious and it sort of broke the ice in our friendship.

2 (3m 13s):
Me and Hannah become best friends all through high school cut to senior year, four years later, another orchestra trip this time to Reno, Nevada, Hannah and Lindsay are in their hotel room studying.

1 (3m 24s):
And so Lindsay and I were both sitting at the desk in this hotel room in Reno, Nevada, and a pooper trooper comes flying out of the sky and lands on the window sill where we are. And we both like, we couldn't, we couldn't believe it. We opened the window and we grabbed the pooper trooper and we ran into the hall to try to like find other people in our orchestra. Like we thought someone had been playing a trick on us, but no one knew what we were talking about. No one even remembered the thing in Seattle. And so I still to this day, don't know why that happened.

2 (4m 5s):
Every once in a while we get pitches like this at the radio show, coincidence stories, since they don't really fit into our usual every week, we bring you a theme format. We've been setting them aside, wondering what to do with them. They mean so much to people.

1 (4m 19s):
I don't know. It felt like it was about our friendship. You know, it was just, it felt, you know, I, I am not someone that believes in God really, but it felt a little bit like an act of God or something like to sort of cosmic and larger than us

2 (4m 41s):
Hit us. If we got enough of them, we could put them on the radio as their own thing. So we put out a call to listeners, send us your coincidence stories. And you did hundreds and hundreds of you. Did we read at least 1300 coincidence stories, interviewed dozens of people here. Just a few things we've learned. You're most prone to coincidences. When you're young teens or twenties, lots of coincidences involve your grandmother. You're likely to experience a coincidence if you're in or near the Netherlands. Coincidence is also happened to you in or near airplanes or on Craigslist. For many of you, coincidence is where the answer to your prayers or helped you find your missing bike. Also, there are coincidences hidden in your name, your keys, your clothes, your address, like when flora and ragus Siano Penya first started dating.

1 (5m 27s):
When we met, he said that he was born in salmonella. And I said, well, I was too. And then when we were going to get married and we needed our birth certificates, we compared them and was the same building.

2 (5m 45s):
We heard stories about a lost roll of film, discovered coincidentally, in the stomach of a decomposing hyena about the man who got his favorite. T-shirt back from a stranger's knapsack in Slovakia about the woman who was dating, not one but two Mark Steven Anderson's at the same time about the student whose car broke down in rush hour on a busy highway. And the one person who just happens to stop, who comes to her rescue. It's her dad who lives four hours away. And one of my favorites from a woman named Jill Peterson, who felt nauseated on the subway in New York city, as they pull into the second Avenue stop, there's a garbage can perfectly positioned to help her out.

3 (6m 25s):
So the train doors open and I'm be lining it for this camp. And as I get there out of the corner of my eye, I kind of see like another person heading my direction, kind of like going for the can too. And you know, it's, it's all coming up and I'm throwing up. And as I'm throwing up in this, again, this person that was coming towards me starts throwing up from the Cantu. And we're both like simultaneously barfing into this camp. And we kind of look at each other, like, I don't know what, how, how are you feeling? Like I'm feeling a little bit better now. I'm like me too.

2 (7m 6s):
What's the only way to survive. Throwing up in front of a subway car full of strangers, have a nice girl, your age, do it with you and numbers. So many coincidences with numbers. One woman told us how she was at Thanksgiving with her extended family. And they suddenly realized that six of them had the exact same number of letters in their names. 23 letters,

3 (7m 25s):
Michael Arthur Petty, Mary Elizabeth, William Arthur van de potty.

2 (7m 31s):
There was the guy at the mall doing surveys who had to ask people their phone number. It's obvious the guy who's surveying starts to make up a number. He says nine three, three, four, five six.

3 (7m 42s):
When he read out that last number, he said eight. And I kind of stepped back for a second, but I was cool. And I said, no, sir, I'm sorry. That's not your phone number. And he said, well, why isn't that my phone number? And I said, because that's my phone number. That's my phone. The phone number that you just made up is actually my phone number

2 (8m 8s):
Reminded me of an old Chinese saying I once heard actually I learned it a couple of weeks ago and I have no idea how old it is, but it goes,

4 (8m 14s):
I was like this BU chow <inaudible> that's my friend UN U N D poo chow potential. And what does it mean if there's no coincidence that there won't be stories? No coincidence, no story to imply that of course life's are all, I don't know, developed in the ways that we can predict. So is it like if you heard a story with a coincidence afterwards, he might be like, no coincidence, no story like that, right? Yes. Just a expression. You use the to quote, I, it like a corny thing to say mostly. I think of, no, I won't be okay to say, do you ever use it

5 (8m 56s):
Courtney? Yes.

2 (9m 1s):
Or the risk of being corny? I'm going to say it today's show no coincidence, no story. While the big man's away. We're going to sneak these coincidence stories onto the air. All the stories you'll hear today. First aired on our show in 2013. And they're all verified, true stories that my colleagues hit for me until the actual interviews. So it wouldn't spoil the surprise, which is also why there is so much unprofessional giggling this hour and full disclosure. I came into this topic, a coincidence skeptic, believing that a coincidence is just a coincidence, nothing more. I judged. I confronted weakness. I countered wide-eyed faith with statistical probability and by the end, well stay with us.

5 (9m 43s):
<inaudible>

2 (9m 56s):
Act one. Grandma's Blake Oliver is living in Nicaragua right now. We talked on Skype about four months ago. He was on the phone to his friend, Camille who goes by Cammie. He mentioned to her that the screensaver on his iPhone had been the same picture for a long time that he wanted to change it.

5 (10m 13s):
So I, I asked her to just send me a picture of something and, and it was really funny. She ended up sending me this picture of her as a little kid, as a joke. And I was like, Oh yeah, that's kind of funny. I was expecting, but that's funny. And then I glanced back at the picture and I saw my grandma walking through behind her. What? Yeah. How crazy is that? Right.

2 (10m 40s):
Very crazy. The picture was taken about 18 years ago, but you recognized her right away.

5 (10m 47s):
Oh, Oh, absolutely. There is no question that was grabbing Joyce. It was without question, grab a choice.

2 (10m 52s):
Coincidence is like this one usually have a dense nest of details to bolster the craziness. Here it goes. Blake is from Michigan. That's where he met Camille. But Camille's family. Isn't from Michigan at all.

5 (11m 4s):
They're originally from Utah, salt Lake city, Utah. That's where she grew up. Yeah. That's where she grew up. What's

2 (11m 10s):
This photo from Utah?

5 (11m 13s):
No. And that's the funny thing is my grandma lives in Melbourne, Florida, and I'm thinking, Oh, she must've been in Utah and walked past it. And he's like, no, no, that, that picture was taken in Parksville, Vancouver Island in Canada. Yeah. Right. <inaudible>

2 (11m 37s):
Blake figured out that at the same time that Cammie and her family were on vacation in Vancouver, grandma Joyce had gone there to visit some of her husband's relatives.

5 (11m 45s):
Like what are the chances to think that not only did I meet Cammie, but she sends me this picture of her in the background of my grandma. I don't know what the chances are minuscule. Right? Yes. And not only like, I don't know if you've seen the picture, but not only just in the picture, but like perfectly behind her

2 (12m 11s):
At that moment, a fellow producer emailed me the photo and there, it was cute. Four-year-old Cammy in the foreground facing the camera and not far behind her, a blonde woman walking past wearing blue shorts and a matching top.

5 (12m 23s):
Yeah. And she has no idea if she's in the picture even. Yeah.

2 (12m 26s):
Right. It's not like she doesn't seem aware,

5 (12m 28s):
But I have to say it's it's

2 (12m 31s):
Well, you know, it's not a very crisp photo. Like I'm sorta surprised you would recognize her right away.

5 (12m 37s):
Well, yeah, there's not a lot of it's my grandma. I dunno. It's like <inaudible>

2 (12m 54s):
Reporting job decades ago. I interviewed a woman who just turned a hundred years old. I asked her admittedly, a rookie question. What's the most amazing thing that's happened in your life. And she thought for a while, and then she said, the most interesting thing that happened to me was that on my first day at Patchogue school, the principal said to me, what's your name? I said, Esther Tuttle. And he said, I have a friend in shelter Island by that name. I was 12. She said, and that to me was remarkable. This is a woman had seen the advent of cars and movies and computers and space travel. And this was her answer at the time, I thought it was lame that maybe Esther was losing it a little.

2 (13m 35s):
But since I started hearing all these coincidence stories, the last couple of weeks I've reconsidered, coincidence is, feels so rare. And that sticks with you even when the coincidence is barely a coincidence at all, an academic study of people's reactions to coincidence stories from the early 1980s found that we have an egocentric bias toward our own coincidences. That people find stories that happened to them far more surprising than the same stories happening to other people, case in point,

3 (14m 3s):
My name is Juliana Bontrager and I'm 16 years old. Juliana.

2 (14m 7s):
She's got a problem with her grandmother.

3 (14m 9s):
My grandma has been obsessed with coincidences and she finds them in her life all the time. And she always wants to tell everyone about them and we get kind of annoyed with her sometimes because she just, she thinks they're so incredible and how they happen to her all the time. And it's just, you know, it's every time we see her, Oh my gosh, you would not believe what happened to me. And they're always, you know, I was at the hospital with, you know, she was her cousin. So she takes her cousin to the doctor's office, quite a bit for appointments and stuff. And she'll be sitting in the waiting room and then, you know, they'll drive to go get lunch after that.

3 (14m 49s):
And they'll feed the people. They were waiting in the waiting room with, at the restaurant. And I've always, you know, I always thought that was funny cause it's like, yeah, let's go incidence. But you know, maybe they're just going to get lunch too. Like it's not the deal. Yeah. So then a while ago I was doing a project in the English class. We were reading the Scarlet letter book and I was, once we finished the book, our end project was we had to come up with what our sin was or what sin. We struggled with the most. And I chose envy. So we had to create our own letter as paper. And then we had to like safety, pin it to our shirt and wear it around school the entire day.

3 (15m 31s):
So as I was coloring in my letter and cutting it out, my mom was listening to the show monk in the background, as we were watching it, I was literally like cutting out my last line on the letter E for envy. And it said on the show and studied the seven sins. And the most prominent one is envy as I was cutting out my letter. And so I immediately called my grandma and was telling her about it. And she was like, Oh aha. That's a good one. Yeah. And then I didn't really hear back from her after that. And I thought like, well, maybe we should just envious of my great coincidence.

3 (16m 14s):
And I was sitting there like I get kidding. Mine is so much better. You just happened to run into a person twice in one day. I do that all the time. You know, what are the odds that as I'm cutting out this letter, E they would talk about that on the show. And I was so confused about it.

2 (16m 32s):
Okay. So Juliana's coincidence is a common one. We've all had those moments when you're reading a certain word and then someone says it on the radio or on TV. But remember Juliana is 16. So maybe this is the first time it's happening to her still. I'm on her side here. I think it is more remarkable than her grandmother's example of the people in the waiting room being at the restaurant. Do you, do you have a phone where you can dial up your grandma right now?

3 (16m 55s):
I can try try it. Okay. One second.

2 (16m 59s):
So Juliana conference to grandmother in, so we could settle this.

3 (17m 2s):
I'm here. Elaine Olson,

2 (17m 5s):
Jane Olson. Nice to meet you. Nice to meet you, dear. I laid out my argument for Elaine about the purity and therefore superiority of Juliana's example, but Elaine argued right back. There were several hours between the two sightings plus the restaurant was about four miles from the house.

3 (17m 22s):
And in that four mile radius, you might say I could've gone to any number of restaurants. I, the fact that I ran into her at that restaurant, I think is a coincidence. I think if she could have gone any place too, that's that's true. I'm not saying it's not,

2 (17m 40s):
I'm just saying it's not maybe as pure as like you can break down the sort of probabilities of a certain kind of person and a certain kind of neighborhood you don't think. So You think you're somehow prone to coincidence is like, coincidence is fine. You more than they find other people.

3 (17m 59s):
I don't know. That's what Y you know, in my own family, I've asked them, does this happen to you? And don't get, you know, much of a response, but when you ask for coincidence and we have nothing to give to you, because you have your assistant and your wedding,

2 (18m 23s):
What would Juliana, like, what would Juliana have to experience in terms of a coincidence that would impress you? Do you think, like, what would it need to be?

3 (18m 33s):
Well, you know, I tried to tell just a couple of weeks ago, I had my, my cousin up at another doctor's that's sitting in the reception area, gentlemen, across

2 (18m 44s):
This time, it was about an Asian man in the waiting room whom she later saw buying a Mellon at trader Joe's, which Elaine admitted wasn't as good as the other one Act two in God we trust. It's probably no surprise that we got a huge number of coincidence pitches about love romantic love. A few years ago, after Stephen Lee proposed to his girlfriend, Helen, they brought their families together for the first time to celebrate the engagement.

3 (19m 17s):
My mom and my stepdad came to New York to meet with Helen's parents. And basically over the course of dinner and coffee afterwards, we discovered that basically my father had dated my wife's mother back in Korea, back in the 1960s. And he had proposed to her.

2 (19m 41s):
I'm going to slow this down a sec, just to let it sink in. Helen's mother had almost married Steven's father, his late father, actually, he died when Steven was 17 and how this all came out was that after they had dinner, they went back to Steven's apartment and they were looking at Steven's family photographs.

3 (19m 57s):
So, you know, my future mother-in-law's flipping through the album and she sees my dad as, so she asks, you know, Oh, what was his name? And my mom tells the name and you know, my, my future, mother-in-law kinda just nods and kinda just moves on and keeps us flipping through the book. Doesn't even say anything.

2 (20m 16s):
Imagine what she must have been feeling with seeing that photo suddenly just like flooded.

3 (20m 21s):
Yeah, she has. She is. I think she'd be really good at poker.

2 (20m 33s):
So Helen's mother says nothing goes home, but later that night she tells her daughter, this was the one, this was the man who might've been. She explained that the reason they hadn't married was because her father Helen's grandfather had chosen different husband for

1 (20m 48s):
The man who became Helen's father. All of them ended up living in the U S but they quickly lost touch. And Steven didn't find out about any of this until a couple of days later, last one, Helen, you know, calls me up, says I have something to tell you. And she tells me, and I was, I was floored by it. And, you know, together, we called my mom and, you know, she put a good face on it. She, but she was, you know, she was pretty shocked. Did she know that there had been this other woman that your father had? And that's the thing my dad told her years and years ago, you know, there was this other woman that I, I was in love with at one point, but you know, long before I met you, but mom was like, look, you have a past, I have a past, we all have past who cares.

1 (21m 34s):
Of course, you know, never thinking that she was going to share grandchildren with that woman. I mean, she later admitted to me that if she had known this from the very beginning, she would have not supported Helen to me. She wouldn't, you know, it would just been like, look, being with the daughter of this, of the other woman your dad loved. I mean, it would can't you find someone else? How did you take this coincidence? Did it come to mean anything to you or to Helen? Yeah. There's something about it. The fact that, you know, I didn't have the time with my dad that I wished I had had, and then suddenly to kind of have him be kind of an active part of my life, again, to think that I can talk to my mother-in-law and hear what he was like in his twenties, something that my mom doesn't even know.

1 (22m 29s):
And you know, my actually Helen's father is a strong believer in the idea that somehow my dad somehow is behind all this, that somehow, you know, he's kind of helped make all this happen at the time. This next love story takes place. A guy named Paul Gretchen was working in a Chicago suburb called Arlington Heights. He'd just started dating a woman named Esther. They'd been out maybe eight times.

7 (22m 59s):
And I thought maybe it was time to get exclusive or become boyfriend girlfriend or whatever it was. And I was about to go out to lunch. And I was thinking about asking her on a Friday date that I had set up and I went out to lunch. I stopped at the store prior to hitting the deli that I normally hit. And I got some change, went to the deli, ordered my sandwich. It was six bucks or something like that. I pulled out a five from my wallet and I pulled out a couple of bucks, changed that I got in from the store handed the clerk, one of the ones. And then I looked at it and I, I pulled it back, written on the dollar in pencil was a Aster. And I thought, Oh, that's weird.

7 (23m 40s):
You know, I'm thinking about asking her to go steady. And I get this dollars is estrogens bizarre. So I stuck in my pocket, you know, chocolate. I went to the store, I got one of those floating frames and a little piece of gold Lamay. And I stuck the dollar in the frame. So it was floating in the middle, on this piece of gold as if, you know, you're going to go on a church in Italy. And they had a fragment from the robe of some Saint or something like that. And I call it the immaculate dollar of Arlington Heights. So on the Friday I asked her out and she was, you know, all excited and we were all getting, then I, I said, Hey, I have one more thing for you. And I gave her this frame with this dollar in it.

8 (24m 23s):
I, I start unwrapping it. And he's like, it's a dollar with your name on it. And he's, he's all like beside himself. And I it's just looking at him like I'm freaked out.

7 (24m 35s):
She kind of furrowed or brow a little bit and looked concerned. And I said, you know, is there a, some sort of problem?

8 (24m 44s):
I was speechless for the first time ever. But I said, you know, remind me to tell you something later.

7 (24m 56s):
So, okay. You know, I, I let it go. And we, you know, we had our relationship got engaged. We got married a couple years later, we were unpacking at a new apartment that we had. And I had the, I found the frame with the dollar in it and I stuck it up on the dresser. And she came in the room. I said, Hey, you never told me about this dollar. What's the deal with that? She said, well,

8 (25m 17s):
When I was 19, you know, I was a cashier working in a coffee shop in downtown Chicago, and I was dating someone and I just wasn't happy with him. And I just thought, you know, how do people know who the right person that they're meant to be with? How do they, how do they know who that is? I said, you know what? I'm not gonna worry about that. I'm just going to put my name on this dollar bill. And the guy that gets us, dollar bill is going to be the guy that asks me to marry him. And I'm like, well, you can't just write your name on one. Actually. I think it was more like maybe 10 or 12. And so this dollar bill that you gave me, I believe is the same dollar bill that I wrote my name on.

8 (25m 60s):
And I knew that we were going to be married. But day that you gave me this dollar bill, it was pretty crazy. It meant, he made me tell him this story again. He asked me like five or six times, and I said, the details don't change. It's the same story. Like he couldn't, I think he was a little bit beside himself that that actually happened. And that I didn't tell him, you know, I don't know how I found the will to not say anything to him, but I just remember like, do I donate? Do I don't I do it? You know, what do I do? I don't want to freak this guy out and be like, what this course already talking about Mary. It's just wait, what? Forget it.

7 (26m 41s):
You know, I don't read too much into almost anything, so I just gotta move forward. And then after she told me, I think I went through all the normal stages of whatever. And I just thought, what does this mean for us? Are we going to invent a time machine? Or are kids going to bring world peace? Or like, well, what's the, like, there's some sort of bigger thing that we're not seeing here. No, it just sits in that very same frame up on our dresser. And I look at it every day that I wake up. Sometimes I remind her that we have it when she's upset at me or angry.

8 (27m 23s):
It's never been a question in my mind, like, you know what, I'm going to kick this guy to the curb. But I do believe it's because of this dollar that I feel tied to him. I mean, obviously I love him, but I think that if it ever did cross my mind, I'd be like, but wait, I, this is my soulmate. I can't just walk out on him. You know, we don't, we don't even wear wedding bands. I'm like, why? He's just, I know I'm stuck with you. You got this dollar bill, I guess he could also, you know, put it back out into the register and then be like, look, I'm cashing and saying, I think it's got to go to somebody else. He could do that.

8 (28m 4s):
Paul and Esther, Gretchen <inaudible> brother, can you spare a dime?

8 (28m 55s):
This story comes from Ryan Rosa

1 (28m 57s):
In Los Angeles. It happened when I was in college as actually pledging a fraternity. And I ran into some of the, like the seniors tend to on campus and they were laughing about something. And so one of them tells me the story that had happened to him that day, supposedly, where he gets in the shower and about five, 10 minutes into his shower, he hears that ping. And he looks down and sitting on the floor of the shower between his feet is a nickel and has no idea where this nickel came from or why it's there.

1 (29m 37s):
You know, obviously like we, like everyone was making jokes that, you know, had changed falling out of his butt. You know, people were like, were you eating dollar bills? Or, you know, but anyway, we have our laughs and I go home and I don't think much about it. The next day I get in the shower and like five, 10 minutes into my shower. I hear it. And I looked down and right between my feet is a quarter. So my first thought was, how did they do it? Like my thought was, I totally assumed that this must not have really happened to him.

1 (30m 18s):
That was a setup. And somehow they set this up to happen to me, but I could not figure out how I was just like, you know, it had to be a prank, basically. That's so smart of you to figure out the whole con that's. I mean, that's what I assume. Then I go, I go and I talk to him and I tell him what happened to me. And I'm kind of watching his face for that, you know, the laugh or the Glint in his eyes mischief or whatever. And he it's, he just looks kind of sincerely mystified by the fact that this happened to me right after it happened to him. Then like a week later I get in the shower and like five, 10 minutes in, I hear King King and I looked down and there's about 35 cents between.

1 (31m 4s):
Right. So something's things happening. There's that moment of like, no way before I looked down and there there's more change. So at this point, like obviously my, my mind's going to some like weird places. Cause I don't want to be the budgeting's ferry guy. You know? Like there's somehow there's just a, there's nothing, no way that it's good for me. And then no explanation comes that doesn't happen for awhile for like, I want to say probably a month until one day, I'm about to get in the shower.

1 (31m 44s):
And I reached behind me to scratch my back and I feel something cold and metal on my back. And I turn around to show my, you know, to turn my back to the mirror. And there is like a whole pocket full of chains stuck to my back. What do you mean ducks to it? Well, this is what I figured out. So like it wasn't, there was no adhesive or anything. It was just like impressed into my back. So I figured out what was going on is that I had a bad habit of falling asleep with my pants on because it was college I'd nap a lot. And so I I'd also sleep with my shirt off because my apartment was really hot.

1 (32m 28s):
So what was happening was changed, was falling out of my pockets onto my bed and I was laying on it and all that sweat and pressure was just sticking the coins to my back. Like they're just literally like impressed into my pack. And it was taking about five minutes of water running on it to dislodge them. At which point they were dropping at my feet.

2 (33m 0s):
Clearly I love this story, but I did not see the coincidence in it. Ryan said there was absolutely a coincidence. It happened to that one kid, the senior, and then it happened to him the very next day. I disagree. I think this is probably a common quirk of college boy, life lounging around shirtless and groggy on unclean sofas and beds. Probably half the boys at his college had changed, stuck to them. I told Ryan, so I don't think there's any coincidence involved at all.

1 (33m 27s):
I do. And because I'll tell you, I know I've known lots of, lots of guys who've lived in, in pretty school and other than me and that other guy, I've never heard someone, you know, having the change falling from them.

2 (33m 47s):
It's just cause they're not admitting it. I swear to God. I started asking, start asking,

9 (33m 55s):
Hello? Hi, can I go in for a second?

2 (33m 59s):
Okay. I knew Ryan wouldn't actually start asking. So I started asking because while Ryan's life is sure to contain many special and unique experiences, I am positive that this is not one of them. So off I went to prove him wrong because finding others would be so easy. I happen to live in a college town, state college, Pennsylvania, home of Penn state. So I dropped by a frat house. Has this ever happened to you?

9 (34m 25s):
Never in my life. Never in my life. No. Never. Never. Who wait till you, have you never heard of that happening to anybody? Not even close. Never heard of it. Never. Ever, never. I mean, I think it'd be a nice icebreaker with like both women, because like in a conversation you can be like, Oh, this weird thing happened to me. Yeah. I, I always got changed stuck to my back or my butt for weeks.

2 (34m 55s):
Anyway, lots and lots of nos. I asked whole classes

9 (34m 59s):
Has this happened to anyone?

2 (35m 2s):
And then we thought Pennsylvania it's too cold. Ryan went to college in Southern California. We got to go South. So we start reporters to the university of Virginia.

9 (35m 11s):
All right. Have you heard of this happening? No. I've never heard that before. No. None of us have heard this has happened. No. Nope, Nope.

2 (35m 20s):
To frats at university of North Carolina.

9 (35m 22s):
Never heard of that problem. No.

2 (35m 26s):
We asked to two different universities there

9 (35m 28s):
Never had it fall off in the shower. No, no. I can't say that. It has no, no, no. It's never happened. That's never happened to me. I've never heard of that habitat anybody. So now I guess

5 (35m 38s):
Maybe it's a California thing. So we went to

2 (35m 41s):
CLA to match the climatological conditions at Ryan's school.

5 (35m 45s):
Has it ever happened to you? No. That doesn't happen. That is not a thing.

2 (35m 50s):
So does that mean Ryan was right? It really was a coincidence. Maybe I asked it one more class in Pennsylvania. Has this ever happened to any of you?

5 (36m 2s):
Oh, it has. Oh my God.

2 (36m 4s):
Ladies and gentlemen, Penn state, senior Casey Phillips.

5 (36m 8s):
It's actually like an ongoing joke in our apartment that because there's just change in our shower all the time. It's just from you or others in your apartment to just me actually there's change in my shower. It's there's like a roommate texted me today. Why is there change in the shower? Cause I forgot to touch to take it out because that happens to me all the time. Like you said, I take naps all the time. Like I pretty much just sleep in naps like in like two hours per day. And I just sleep in my jeans and I've changed in my jeans and it comes out and it gets in my bed and I figured it out the same way he did it. It's that story. It was eerily similar.

5 (36m 51s):
I am so pleased to meet you coming up. Don't lift the manhole cover. That's 23 letters by the way,

2 (37m 3s):
In a minute from Chicago public radio. When our program continues

0 (37m 9s):
Support for this American life comes from Squarespace. If you have a story to tell whether it's about starting a business or sharing photos, Squarespace gives you an all-in-one platform to bring these stories to life with modern templates and 24 hour support, you can easily create a professional website or online store, head to squarespace.com/american for a free trial. When you're ready to launch use code American for 10% off your first purchase of a website or domain support for this American life comes from Casper. Better sleep starts with the right routine and right equipment with Casper's amazing sleep products. It's never been easier to reset your rest. And now with their president's day sale, you can save up to 15% on their supremely comfortable mattresses and sheets.

0 (37m 55s):
Casper's mattresses are award-winning to us news and world report recently named Casper's wave hybrid. The best overall mattress shop the president's day sale and enjoy up to 15% off bedroom essentials@casper.com. Exclusions may apply. See casper.com/promo for details and end date.

2 (38m 14s):
It's this American life I'm Sarah Canuck sitting in for IRA glass. We've borrowed today's theme from a Chinese saying no coincidence, no story. We first aired the show in 2013. After asking you to send us your coincidence stories and you've flooded us with more than 1300 pitches, we found trends. We found gems. We found stories impossible to classify.

4 (38m 36s):
My name is Jeff Don Jeff Dunn. Okay. Jeff grew up in Sioux city, Iowa when he was 16, he was hanging out with two of his friends at someone's house. The parents were at home. They're goofing around smoking pot. They're in the living room that had a huge window on one wall.

9 (38m 51s):
And so we're sitting there and we're kind of sitting along this glass wall and there's a dirt road outside of his house and up this dirt road barrels this van. And the thing that happens next is what you think is going to happen. When you see a white van like that at night, it's two guys get out, they're all kind of bundled up and they pretty quickly just run to the back of the van, open it up and pull out this big black bag. So they get out, they take the bag out and they quickly run up. This kind of small Hill is behind his house and it's all wooded. There's no houses back there. So they run up this Hill with this bag and less than like two minutes later, they come running back down and they get in the van and they take off.

4 (39m 39s):
So Jeff and his friends do precisely what you don't want them to do. If this were an afterschool special, this is the point where you're yelling at the TV saying, don't do it stay inside. But they decide they have to find out what the strange men in the van have deposited at the top of the Hill. So they run up there,

9 (39m 57s):
We get to the top and we kind of look around and then we see that kind of on one side of it. There's this, this manhole cover like a circular man. We'll cover, like you'd see anywhere. And coming from one of the edges of the manhole cover it's in place is long Brown hair, human hair,

4 (40m 17s):
Long Brown human hair. They are teenagers. They're stoned. They are freaked out. They have to tell an adult about what they've seen. A police car happens to drive by. They flag it down and the officer tells them to get in the back.

9 (40m 32s):
It became clear that she was really concerned because she then said, yeah, there's been our girl missing on the West side of town for the last couple of days. Oh my God. So again like our hearts just sort of drop and you hadn't known that hadn't been on the news or something like we had no idea. So we, we just kinda got scared at that point.

4 (40m 52s):
Can I stop you for a second? Is this story going to get funny or is this a horrifying story? Wait, actually don't tell me, don't tell me. Okay. Don't tell me.

9 (40m 59s):
So she calls another officer and the other officer comes, there's a couple cars and they both get out and they tell us to get out and they say, okay, wait at the bottom of the Hill. So we're waiting. They go walking up to the top and it's dark. So we can't really see them that well, but we can see them well enough. And we don't really want to watch what's going on because we see them bend over, pull the cover off. And I'm trying not to look, but of course I'm looking and she pulls up a human figure out of the hole. Oh my God. And then she says, it's a mannequin.

9 (41m 51s):
I don't know what my friends are thinking, but I was sitting there thinking, that's the only like, how does this story end up? Okay. And it doesn't in any universe, you know? Like, unless you say it's a mannequin,

4 (42m 5s):
Jeff goes to school on Monday, tells his story in physics class. And the kid next to him says that was us. We did it. We went around stealing holiday decorations and we had to get rid of them. So we stuffed them under the manhole, cover the mannequin, by the way, it had been the Virgin Mary and someone's nativity scene.

9 (42m 23s):
I think the real coincidence is that it's like our close friends that caused us to happen to them. They were good friends of yours. Yeah. Right?

4 (42m 35s):
No, Jeff, it turns out that is not the real coincidence of the story. My producer, Brian Reed was listening to all these interviews as they were happening. And he interrupted us to tell us, we both missed the point. Brian has just pointed out that I missed it.

9 (42m 48s):
You and I are both missing. I don't even know the coincidence of my own story. Yeah. I submitted it to the coincidence of thing to

4 (42m 54s):
The main coincidence is there's a girl missing at the same

9 (42m 57s):
Time. Yeah. I have five words for you, Jeff boots.

4 (43m 0s):
Yeah. <inaudible> no coincidence, no story. Here's a definition of coincidence. That seems right. To me. A coincidence is a surprising concurrence of events perceived as meaningfully related with no apparent causal connection. It's that middle part meaningfully related that people seem to get stuck on because when events line up, just so you can't help it, you can't help. But wonder if there's a message in that, in that way, coincidences are kind of like shortcuts to very big questions about fate, about God, even to people who don't believe in either one, the notion that somewhere out there, someone or something is paying attention to your life, that there might be a plan conjured through coincidences.

4 (43m 47s):
That notion seems to be most appealing. When you're young, we got one story about a young couple visiting Marrakesh in Morocco, they're at a restaurant talking like you do about old flames. And the boyfriend wanted to know about one guy in particular.

1 (43m 60s):
I asked Kate, Kate, what did this guy look like? And Kate just stopped dead in her tracks and lifted one hand to her mouth. And with the other hand pointed across the restaurant and she said, Oh my God, he looked like that. And she crossed the restaurant and tapped him on the back of the shoulder. And it was him,

4 (44m 22s):
The daughter of a jazz guitarist named Andy Riley wrote to us about the time when she was 19. She was listening to an Ella Fitzgerald album.

1 (44m 30s):
I was listening to the song that black magic

3 (44m 33s):
And at the end of the song, Ella is chosen alone, that old black magic that Billy Daniels got me in. And I've heard her sing that line on that album dozens of times before and wondered is this Billy Daniels, but on this particular day, for some reason, I felt inspired to go out to the living room and ask my dad who Billy Daniels was. And he explained that in the forties, the Billy Daniels had some, all black magic in a way that made it his song. And he was referred to as Mr. Black magic, I guess, back in the forties. And it was a big deal at the time. And I'd asked my dad, had you met him, you know, did you ever know Billy Daniels? And he said that Billy Daniels was probably dead now.

3 (45m 13s):
And just literally at that moment, the phone,

9 (45m 15s):
Right? So I answered the phone and this playful gravelly voice asked for Andy Riley. And I said, who's, who's calling. And he said, Vinnie Daniels, magic, magic. That two weeks last September,

3 (45m 39s):
I was living in Roswell, New Mexico. And I had woken up in jail for like the last time.

4 (45m 46s):
This is Etta. Thordarson when this happened. She was 20 years old on drugs, hanging out with street kids. Her mom offered to buy her a bus ticket to Washington state to go to rehab. Eddie said, yes. She took her dog and got on the bus in Los Angeles. There was a stopover at the Depot. And this guy comes up to her while she's waiting in line to get food. She's got $2 just enough for some French fries. The guy starts asking her questions about her dog.

3 (46m 10s):
And he starts asking me other random questions, like, what are you doing? Where you're going? And then he asked me, are you from Alaska? And I was like, yeah, I am actually. And then he asked me, is your mom named Meg? And I was like, yeah, she is. And he was like, Oh, well, I'm Chris, I'm your father. I met you 10 years ago. And I was like, Oh, Holy

4 (46m 37s):
And I had only seen her father that one time briefly when she was 11.

3 (46m 41s):
And then he pulls out a big wad of money and like, he pays for my food and then he hands me 40 bucks. And it's like, don't say I never gave you nothing and walked away

9 (46m 56s):
What I I'm S I'm like shocked by the story. And he didn't. That was it. You didn't see him again. He didn't know. You could tell, he felt bad. Did you expect something more to happen? Like, did you think, Oh, this is good. Go

3 (47m 16s):
Sit down and eat together. And I was gonna, you know, lay out the whole life story for him. And he was going to plane his life. Where were you? Then? I was kind of looking forward to that, but then it didn't happen. Mostly. I just, I want to like study his face for longer just cause that's, I mean, I've seen him twice and I still can't really remember what he looks like.

4 (47m 43s):
Right. Not, not pursuing him in some way.

3 (47m 48s):
Yeah, absolutely. In the moment I was just, I was so sick. I just really couldn't comprehend whether it's till I got on the bus and I was kind of just wide in my run after him. I have to spend my whole life wondering out this man. And you know, the chance to talk to him was put right in front of my face. I didn't really understand that at the time. And I let it go.

4 (48m 21s):
Emiliano Garcia Sarnoff also hadn't seen his father in many years since he was seven or eight years old. He lived in California, but he was visiting a national park in Mexico with his mother when he was 18. And they hiked to the top of a pyramid there. The whole place was sort of off the beaten track

3 (48m 37s):
Or walking, walking along, or some people pass in front of us. And my mom said, Oh my God. And then she turned to me and said, that's, that's your father. That's your dad. And I was

4 (48m 56s):
Also coincidentally, it was father's day.

3 (48m 59s):
So I ended up sort of embarrassingly breaking down, crying on that pyramid. It was a really emotional moment for me. My father definitely, you know, his absence meant a lot to me. And we said, yeah, we're going to stay in contact. And after they said, bye, they left. And he came running back up the Hill about 20 minutes later and you could hear him panting. And he said, Emiliano, I just want to say, I'm sorry, I didn't stay in touch. And that I love you. And he turned and went back down.

4 (49m 32s):
Emiliano story goes the way at a wishes. Hers had gone after a Rocky few years, he and his father did get to know each other. And each other's families. Emiliano had a son who now had a grandfather Milliano his father had left him when he was a baby. But when his father died some years ago, Ameliana was there at the hospital. They'd had a real relationship and that never would've happened. Emiliano said if he hadn't seen him that day at the pyramid,

3 (49m 57s):
Walking down that pyramid, I was talking out loud to myself and I was saying, this is one's gone. We were going to have, as I was saying, don't forget. Don't forget. You know, I was getting angry with my future stuff, which I knew would rationalize this event, you know? Cause I, I had a very distinct sense that I had felt that this was definitely a miracle. Something had intervened and brought us together. You know, you don't just run into here father on top of the pyramid. So I think I was a believer for about a and then, and then

2 (50m 34s):
That very pause that brings us to act five. What are the chances in order to let a good coincidence live a long and healthy life to get told and retold and take its rightful place in the narrative of your life. Sometimes you have to stop yourself from thinking it all the way through why it happened really, because the fact is any statistician will probably rain on your parade will tell you these things happen a lot more often than you think. But a good coincidence is like a good magic trick. When you see one, a struggle ensues instantaneously between the thrill of the apparent miracle and the urge to debunk it. This final story is by Carrie weeks, he's a prop guy for the movies, but he told this at a storytelling competition.

10 (51m 16s):
So here's my story. Nine years old, first time going to summer camp. And my grandfather gives me before I go, he gives me his old pocket knife is practically an antique. And so the first thing all of his boys do when we get to camp is we pull out our knives and we start throwing them at things, trying to get them to stick the way Daniel Boone did. And because it's the 1970s, there's nothing unusual about a bunch of young children throwing sharp knives around. And I got mine to stick in the floorboard and it was like, well, and it's great. But when I pulled it out, the tip broke off. But anyway, camp goes on and a few days later I noticed my knife is missing and I'll look everywhere for it.

10 (52m 1s):
I look high, I look low, it's gone, but the one day I'm walking through camp and I see this group of boys throwing knives at a tree and something tells me I should check this out and sure enough, there's this boy they're throwing my knife. Now there's no mistaking this knife because the handle was red and green. But the colors met in the middle and council rolled together in a trippy psychedelic way. And I've never seen a knife like that before, since. So I walk up to this boy, he's a little older by walk up to him and I say, Hey, that's my knife. And he says, no, it's mine. And I say, no, that's my knife. My grandfather gave it to me.

10 (52m 43s):
And he says, no, he didn't. He says, my grandfather gave it to me. And I'm confused all of a sudden, maybe I should've thought this through a bit more. I thought he would just hand it over. And the other boys, they like move in close and I'm thinking, could it be possible that his grandfather gave him the exact same knife that my grandfather gave me? I mean, is this a thing? And I just didn't know it, But I'll look at the knife and he's holding his hand. And I look at the blade and I see that the tip of the blade is squared off as though it were.

10 (53m 26s):
And I say, that's my knife because I broke the tip off when I stuck it in the floor. And he says, what? That, no, it came that way. So you can use it like a screwdriver

6 (53m 39s):
<inaudible>

10 (53m 44s):
And I'll look at the other boys and I'm not getting any help from them. And so I wander off just thinking to myself, screwdriver. I never thought of that. Well, as you can imagine, this really bugged me. And I don't mean just while I was at camp, but like for the rest of my life,

6 (54m 4s):
<inaudible>,

10 (54m 10s):
You know, I kept thinking, why did I fold so easily? Why didn't I go to the counselors? And the only thing I can think of is this, I'm the son of a physicist. And I used to ask my dad these questions all the time. Like dad, how far away is the son, dad? How fast is the speed of light dad? What's the closest star. And he would give me these answers and these numbers that were just so huge. I couldn't get my mind around them. So my, my point is this, I better than most other children had an idea of just how vast the universe is and therefore how infinite the possibilities are.

10 (54m 57s):
So the thing is at the time I thought, well, maybe the kid's telling the truth. So the only reason why I bring this up is because this is what I was thinking of. When some 32 years later, I become the landlord of a small apartment building. And one of the first things I did as a landlord was I threw this guy out because he was a small time drug dealer. So on the day he's moving out, I get a call from his neighbor across the hall, a guy I call Budweiser, Bob

6 (55m 27s):
And Budweiser.

10 (55m 29s):
Bob says, Hey, that druggie is stealing your refrigerator.

6 (55m 33s):
<inaudible>.

10 (55m 37s):
And so I hopped down there and sure enough in the driveway is a pickup truck. And in the back of the pickup truck is their refrigerator. So I charge up the stairs and I demand to know just what the hell is going on. And Nick, the druggie calmly tells me, he says, dude, when I moved in here, that refrigerator was so gross. I bought my own refrigerator and swapped it out. And I put that one in storage and now I'm just putting it back. And I look in the kitchen and sure enough, there's another refrigerator. It's a little old, a little dirty, but it's working. And I'm trying to think this through. I mean, with someone really go to all that trouble of just swapping out a refrigerator and then putting in storage and bringing it back, or would a guy go to the trouble of stealing a used refrigerator just to screw his landlord and replacing it with an even more used refrigerator?

10 (56m 34s):
Well, the answer to both these questions is yes, but I look up and there's Nick and he's expecting me to say something and there's his buddies who are helping him move. And they're expecting me to say something. So I'll walk up to Nick and I'll look him in the eye. And I say to him, see, you sweep up real good before you leave, because there's just too many possibilities in this universe. <inaudible>

4 (57m 10s):
Carrie weeks lives in New York. His story was recorded. Live at a moth story slam in New York city. You can download the moth podcast on iTunes or wherever you get your podcasts. At the beginning of the show, I said, I was a skeptic, but after talking to so many people about coincidences, including a Stanford mathematician who spent decades studying them, I end up here agreeing with this one woman I interviewed about her coincidence. She knew her story could probably be explained away with statistics and probability, but she said, there's just a poetry to things like this when they happen. There's some kind of beauty in it.

4 (57m 49s):
There's meaning in the noticing of it at all.

4 (58m 30s):
Our program was produced today by Brian Reed and me with Alex Bloomberg, Ben Calhoun, Miki, meek, Jonathan <inaudible>, Lisa Pollack, Robin Simeon, Alyssa ship, and Nancy update. Senior producer for this episode was Julie Snyder. Our technical director is Matt Tierney music help from Damien grave and Rob Geddes, additional production help from Ari Safferstein and a huge thanks to the hundreds and hundreds of you who sent us your stories and took the time to let us interview you including Layla. Right? Catherine Vanda, petty, Bob <inaudible>, Eric Johnson and Hannah Jacoby. Thanks also to Peter Guerra, John Biewen, Eric Mennel, Jane Marie Marva Hinton, Dave Hunter, Percy diakonos at Stanford university, Julie beer, Jen Fallon, Paula West, Catherine Burns and Jennifer Hixson, Michelle Harris, Aaron Henkin, Bianca Tonas, Tony Barbie Arie and Ben Schrier.

4 (59m 17s):
Our original music about the immaculate dollar was written and performed by Bri web and rich Burnett produced by Bri and Jeff marriage. His website, Bri web.com. Our website is this American life.org, where we have extra coincidence stories from you that all involve your photographs. So you should check it out. That's this American life.org. This American life is distributed by PRX, the public radio exchange. Thanks also to Tori Maltia who's on vacation with IRA this week. They were so excited for their cruise, but it seems like by day three funds starting to fade.

6 (59m 53s):
When you ask your <inaudible>

4 (59m 58s):
I'm Sarah Canuck, IRA glass, we'll be back next week with more stories of this American life.

6 (1h 0m 2s):
Okay.