0 (0s):
Looking for a university that believes in your student's potential and invests in their success, watch them soar above and beyond. At University of Maryland Eastern Shore with one of our 60 bachelor's degrees, our dedicated faculty and staff are committed to providing students with the supportive community and the attention they need to dive into their passions and become who they want to be. Experience a top 20 H B C U that treated students like family and start on your journey today with the virtual tour or schedule an on-campus visit. Learn more at ums.edu/visit.

1 (31s):
When we were weak, we told ourselves we were strong. And sometimes if we were very weak, we taught ourselves. We were very, very strong.

3 (43s):
I mean, unquestionably I was by far the most loath member of my class, I think, you know, being a pasty unathletic kid who was weird looking and probably seemed overly eager. So, you know, and I had friends that would come over on the weekends, you know, for, to play. But then at school they would ignore me and pretend like they didn't know me.

1 (1m 6s):
And so when he was little, Chris weer the guy who we were just hearing, spent a lot of time thinking about superpowers. He drew superheroes over and over trying to get them right. He always wanted where somebody could find a radioactive animal, like the one that bit Peter Parker turned him into the amazing Spider-Man. And a couple times Chris thought that he might be developing his own superpowers, real

3 (1m 27s):
Ones. There was one morning where I was standing under the, under the shower. And of course when you get in immediately, cuz you're so cold, the water is extremely hot by contrast, you know? So you have the cold water turned up and as you stand in there, you get used to it and you turn the cold water down, you know? And I was in there for a very long time and I remember turning the cold and it wouldn't go any farther. And I thought, well, that's weird. It must be stuck. And I turned it more and it wouldn't go any farther. And I, I realized I was standing under completely hot water, but I, I was, it felt fine to me. It actually felt warm, almost cool. And the longer I stood there, it felt cooler and cooler.

3 (2m 8s):
And I, the only explanation I could come up with is that I had developed the, the ability to withstand extraordinary heat. And of course we'd just run outta hot water. But at that time I didn't know that that happened. I thought hot water was a, was an endless commodity.

1 (2m 31s):
Even did his own superhero called the Hurricane, who could shoot blasts of wind from his hands and was drawn with huge manly muscles. He made a hurricane costume that he could wear himself. Red T-shirt with a black circle with an H on it, and a mask that his mom made for him. And a yellow cape. You know, some kids really go for a cape.

3 (2m 51s):
There were a few times where I actually came to school with bits of a superhero costume secreted under my school uniform. I guess I don't exactly know why. I guess I thought it was like, it was, it was gonna give me some sense of power or something. But of course then I have gym class, you know, so you have to change your clothes. So I dunno what I was thinking. There was one time I actually, this isn't, this is sort of peripherally superhero, but I'd actually drawn circuit boards on pieces of paper, like the Bionic Man, the $6 million Man. And I'd actually, I'd actually taped them on my legs to look like, like real circuitry exposed as if I had, you know, mechanical legs or something like that.

3 (3m 38s):
So I guess I vaguely thought that somebody would catch a glimpse of it and think, wow, look, he's bionic

1 (3m 50s):
Some of us. We spent a long, long time hoping that we're more than what the world thinks of us. And so of course we're drawn to these stories of these mild mannered guys who underneath their clothes, wear a costume and secret with powers, nobody suspects. And when we get older, it all seems ridiculous. Of course, it seems really, really dumb. It's embarrassing. Chris Ware though, went on to draw cartoons for his living. But the cartoons that he draws are like novels. The graphic novels about real people. Anytime a Superman type shows up in one of his cartoons, he's always somebody trying to calm kids. But the costume in a cape, he's always a disappointment.

3 (4m 29s):
It's just more interesting that way. I think he's more like a real dad that way, I guess. And the more I drum the fatter he gets too, and the more bald he gets, I guess. So, I mean, if you were Superman too, you're like, you know, what do you care what you look like? You wouldn't be all handsome and you just, you know, you'd eat whatever you felt like you'd take whatever you wanted and you'd, you'd end up looking really terrible after a while. I think so. If I was a superhero, I think I would probably, I mean, who's gonna, who's gonna criticize you?

1 (4m 57s):
What today on our radio program superpowers, four real life stories about how easy it is to be caught up in the dream of them. I broke me. Today is a rerun from WBE Z Chicago. It's this American life. I'm Ira Glass as the super villains say, silence Miss Cran. Our program has begun back one invisible man versus Hawkman. So we now present a kind of super contest for you, beloved super listener, between two ancient superpowers, two of the superpowers which have fascinated humans since antiquity.

1 (5m 43s):
And actually, this is kind of a super roar shock test. John Hodgman has been conducting an unscientific survey posing for people a very simple choice,

4 (5m 53s):
Flight versus invisibility. This question is only for you, whichever you pick, you'll be the only person in the world to have that particular superpower. You can't have both. Which do you choose? I started wondering about this a few years ago. I'd bring it up at parties, dinners, wedding receptions. It was more interesting to ask them where people worked or where they went to school. And clearly more fun to answer like a magic word. Shazam, flight versus invisibility would instantly change in evening's. Character opening, passionate conversation and debate. But what surprised me more was how quickly everyone would choose as though they had been thinking about it for a long time.

4 (6m 34s):
Everyone knew exactly which superpower they wanted and what they would do with it. Their plans weren't always flashy or heroic. In fact, they almost never were.

5 (6m 43s):
If I could fly, the first thing I would do is we'd fly into, fly into the bar, check out what's going on there, fly back home. I would attach my baby to me and fly to a doctor's appointment at 1130 and fly right back. Don't I think I would fly to Atlantic City?

6 (7m 6s):
I, I would imagine like if, if if it got around that I had the power of flight and it was a rare type of thing, I mean, there would definitely be flight groupies, I would imagine. So there's gonna be just like, oh yeah, I just slept with a flying dude. You know. But people are just like, oh, score.

7 (7m 35s):
I go into Barney's, I pick out the cashmere sweaters that I like. I go into the dressing room. The woman says, how many items? I say five. I go into the dressing room, I put those five sweaters on, and I summon my powers of invisibility into the dressing room. I turn invisible. I walk out leaving her to wonder why there's a tag hanging from the door that says five and no person inside.

4 (8m 1s):
So you would become a thief pretty quickly,

7 (8m 3s):
Immediately until I had all the sweaters that I wanted. And then I would have to think of other things to do.

4 (8m 13s):
Typically, this is how it goes. People who turn invisible will sneak into the movies or onto airplanes. People who fly, stop taking the bus. Here's one thing that pretty much no one ever says, I would use my power to fight crime. No one seems to care about crime.

8 (8m 30s):
I don't think I would want to spend a lot of time using my power for good. I mean, if I don't have super strength and I'm not invulnerable, then I mean, would be very dangerous. If you had to rescue somebody from a burning building or something like that, you might, you know, catch on fire.

6 (8m 49s):
Just having flight I don't think is necessarily quite enough because you don't have the super strength.

9 (8m 56s):
I I'd still be weak when I got there. I guess I don't fight crime now and, and people without superpowers do so. Sure, in theory, yes. But you know, I'm not a, I mean, what can I do as a, I mean, either one of those, you see, you need a whole package. There's not much you can do with any one thing. I'd go to Paris, I suppose

4 (9m 16s):
That's not being a superhero.

9 (9m 17s):
Well, they may, you know, I could be going to Paris. Man, that's sort of a superhero.

4 (9m 31s):
Going to Paris, man is not a superhero. And I have to say, this drove me crazy a little bit. We are, after all talking about superpowers. Why not take down organized crime? Bring hope to the hopeless swear vengeance on the underworld if only a little bit. I proposed a variety of sample scenarios along these lines, such as how would you handle a mad genius taking over the Empire State Building or a group of terrorists hijacking an overseas flight? And what I learned is some people should simply not be fighting crime.

10 (10m 4s):
Well, the first thing that occurs to me is I think I would sneak up behind them very low and with a knife that they didn't see and slice their achilles tendon. Oh no, I somehow shove a sock in their mouth or something like that so they can't, and rub, wrap some tape around their mouth so that they can't yell out. It might not be a sock, might just be some napkins or something. I I can't keep all this in my head. I have to, I'd have to keep a bag full of stuff with me. Knives, socks, tape.

4 (10m 45s):
Do you think you would be tempted to enlist a teenage helper?

10 (10m 54s):
No. I think a helper would be good. A helper with a complimentary power.

4 (10m 59s):
There's no other, anybody else with superpowers?

10 (11m 2s):
Oh, it would just be a teenage teenager hanging around me. N no.

4 (11m 14s):
People who consider invisibility always want to know, do I have to be naked? People who choose flight want to know how fast. Almost all asked who would win in a fight, Mr. Invisible or flying man. And so I had to lay down some rules. Invisibility means the power to become transparent at will, including your clothing. But anything you may pick up is visible Flight means the power to fly at any altitude within the Earth's atmosphere at speeds up to 1000 miles per hour. But even then they start looking for loopholes, hidden catches, superpower, fine print. They start negotiating their dreams with me.

10 (11m 52s):
Now,

11 (11m 52s):
When you're flying, if you're flying at a thousand miles an hour, at a hundred thousand feet, are you, are you comfortable? Do you get very cold? Let's say I'm in this room and I'm invisible and I'm walking around this apartment and I'm invisible. And yes, do I have to be completely quiet or you guys will like hear my footsteps? Yes, because that's a pain in the ass. And also someone have to let you in.

9 (12m 28s):
Can I carry somebody? Can somebody go on my, on my, on my back?

4 (12m 32s):
Can you carry someone on your back now?

9 (12m 35s):
Little people. Little people, yeah.

4 (12m 37s):
Then you can carry little people on your back

9 (12m 41s):
Done flight. It is,

2 (12m 47s):
This

4 (12m 47s):
Is all part of what I call the five stages of choosing your superpower. Sometimes this process occurs in just moments. For example, subject a, a tallish man with glasses wedged into a cramped ballroom corner begins as they all do with stage one. Gut reaction.

6 (13m 4s):
Initially, I would think perhaps invisibility.

4 (13m 9s):
Next comes stage two practical consideration.

6 (13m 13s):
Because you have the ability to walk around work, perhaps show up at one point and perhaps like go away for a little while and turn invisible and then come back and listen to what they say about you. You have the power to spy on your exes. And that would all be enlightening and, and fun and, and in fact a little bit perverted. And

4 (13m 36s):
You hear that doubt in his voice. That's the beginning of stage three philosophical reconsideration.

6 (13m 43s):
That would, I I believe it would be, it would, it would immediately turn into a life of complete depression. You would, you wouldn't be able to really share with anyone. Cause you, you know, and I know there'd be some like problems with like the, the perversion thing.

4 (14m 0s):
Stage four self-recrimination

6 (14m 3s):
Invisibility leads you, leads me as an invisible person down a dark path because you're not gonna wanna miss out when you're invisible on, you know, no matter how many times you've seen a woman naked in the shower, you're gonna wanna see it again because there's always a different woman, right? And there's just like a lifetime of that. And that's, that's not acceptable behavior no matter whether you're invisible or not.

4 (14m 33s):
And finally, stage five acceptance.

6 (14m 37s):
Yeah, I'd have to go with flight.

4 (14m 47s):
So who chooses invisibility and who chooses flight? In my experience though, there are lots of exceptions. Men lean toward flying women to invisibility and many brewed anxiously over their choice switching from one to the other and back again. And that's because more than the ability say to burst into flame or shoot arrows with uncanny accuracy. Flight and invisibility touch a nerve. Actually they touch two different nerves, speak to very different primal desires and unconscious fears. My friend Christine shows invisibility.

10 (15m 20s):
One superpower is about something that's obvious and the other is about something that is hidden. I think it indicates your level of shame.

4 (15m 30s):
How do you mean?

10 (15m 32s):
A person who chooses to fly has nothing to hide. A person who chooses to be invisible wants clearly to hide themselves.

4 (15m 40s):
Do you feel that you wanna hide yourself?

10 (15m 43s):
I want to. I'd like to not. I'm not gonna answer that question.

13 (16m 1s):
It all has to do with Gail wanting to be invisible means that you're a more gule full person. If you want to fly, it means you're guileless. And I think the reason that I'm so conflicted about flying versus invisibility is that I have guile, but I really wish that I didn't.

4 (16m 24s):
Flight is the hero. Selfless and confident and unashamed and invisibility, the villain, almost everyone I talked to called invisibility. The sneakier power

8 (16m 34s):
Flying is for people who wanna let it all hang out. Invisibility is for fearful, crouching masturbates.

7 (16m 45s):
First of all, I think that a lot of people are gonna tell you that they would choose flight. And I think they're lying to you. I think they're saying that because they're trying to sound all mythic and heroic. Because the better angels of our nature would tell us that the real thing that we should strive for is flight and that that's noble and all that kind of stuff. But I think actually if everybody were being perfectly honest with you, that they would tell you the truth, which is that they all want to be invisible so that they can shoplift, get into movies for free, go to exotic places on airplanes without paying for airline tickets and watch celebrities have sex.

4 (17m 22s):
Anyone faced with this choice in their heart of hearts will choose invisibility.

7 (17m 29s):
Yes. Or they have this sort of inflated, heroic, mythical concept of themselves and that in fact they're not really giving it very much practical thought

4 (17m 48s):
In the end. It's not a question of what kind of person flies and what kind of person fades. We all do both, perhaps. That's why when I put the choice to myself, I'm hopelessly completely stuck at the heart of this decision. The question I really don't want to face is this. Who do you want to be? The person you hope to be or the person you fear you actually are. Don't rush into it. Think it over. Which would you choose?

1 (18m 27s):
John Hodgman is the author of many fine books and the host of the Judge John Hodgman podcast. You can hear it on maximum fun.org or wherever you get your podcast

2 (18m 44s):
Jump.

14 (18m 46s):
Hot. Hot,

2 (18m 51s):
Holy

14 (18m 52s):
Popcorn. Wow, I gotta again that man for me paint. Scott, why not? He can do more than any man can. I gotta that man.

1 (19m 16s):
Act two Wonder woman. Okay, what are the ways to create a superhero gamas space? Alien abduction, prison experiment or NASA flight gone awry? And then you, the idea of a list. Is it possible that a to-do list is powerful enough to achieve this incredible result? Hm. Kelly McGovern's met somebody who tried.

15 (19m 37s):
We met in a bar in Flagstaff, Arizona. I'd just moved back from Cambodia and I was going out for one of my first beers back in the States. Not long into the first one, I noticed this Amazon of a woman with huge blonde and red streaked hair and frosty lips wearing a short red tank dress and at least 50 bracelets. She's six feet tall and showing a lot of leg people at the bar swivel their heads to watch her every move. She stands next to me to order a drink. And in this throaty voice says, what are those pointing to my cigarettes? I tell her they're Cambodian. Her eyes light up and she shoots at a long tan arm and points at a table in the corner.

15 (20m 19s):
She orders me there before I can say no, I'm following her to my seat. She tells me she's an international private investigator, a bounty hunter and a bail bonds enforcer and that her name is Zora. I sit there for hours listening to her. Within a week she takes me to Las Vegas. We drive there in her red Mustang. As always, there's a cult three 80 under the driver's seat and a 45 megastar in the trunk in Vegas. We skipped the casinos and head straight for the male strip clubs where Zora drops at least $200 on lap dances from buff guys with names like Roman.

15 (21m 2s):
Her get up is the same as before, teased hair, jewelry, and the ubiquitous tank dress, which I realized is the best way to show off her tattoos. One is this big circle with blue and white swirls in it, kind of like a bowling ball on her left shoulder. Every guy she meets asks her about it and when they hear her answer, they sometimes propose marriage. Turns out the tattoo is a magic globe. She holds in her dreams and in these dreams it gives her superpowers.

16 (21m 34s):
Ever since I remember I've had the dreams and they're very vivid. But it varies. It usually involves fighting sometimes with guns, sometimes with superhero powers, lightning from my fists and all that. And I usually have, have super strength and I can fly and I have all those things right? And it's my most common set of dreams and it varies. Sometimes it's medieval, sometimes it's futuristic, sometimes it's like a gorilla war in Latin America.

15 (22m 10s):
Can you describe that Zora to me? The Zora in dreams,

16 (22m 15s):
Very powerful athletically, but beyond the rules of nature that this world allows. So six foot five and long, like almost impossibly long silver hair. This sort of otherworldly quality to her where her voice sound did not sound normal. It sounded like almost musical. It became something that I aspire to be, aspire to be this sort of superhero, this sort of person who would fight for a cause.

16 (23m 0s):
Yeah, it was my motivation in life. Ever since I was 10 or 11, I decided that that was my goal.

15 (23m 13s):
Zora took the dream seriously. So seriously that at the age of 12 she sat down and composed a list of some 30 skills she needed to learn if she wanted to become as close to a superhero as any mortal could be. She even gave herself a deadline to master these skills by the time she was 23.

16 (23m 36s):
I know it's a knee.

15 (23m 38s):
Zora pulls out the old spiral notebook. That was her diary at the age of 13 and turns to the inside back cover.

16 (23m 45s):
Yep, there's a list.

15 (23m 46s):
Wow. Why don't you go ahead and read it.

16 (23m 49s):
Okay, the list included martial arts, electronics, chemistry, metaphysics, hand gliding, helicopter and airplane flying, parachuting, mountain climbing survival

15 (24m 2s):
Throughout her teens in twenties politics. Each time she started a new diary, she would update the list and write it in the back of the book. Each one with the same format. Each one titled the list,

16 (24m 14s):
Weaponry rafting, scuba diving herbology. Yes, I studied that. CPR First aid in mountain emergency kind of medicine.

15 (24m 26s):
The list also includes body building, archery, demolitions, and explosives. She wanted to learn how to hunt animals and track men's. Funny. I have

16 (24m 36s):
Here major physical conditioning.

15 (24m 39s):
And the most incredible thing about all of this is that Zora accomplished nearly every item on the list,

16 (24m 45s):
Throwing stars in compound bows and throwing knives. And yes, it was a very interesting pastime

15 (24m 53s):
To keep up with the goals set by the list. She sped through school starting in the seventh grade. She began completing entire school years during the summer term and finished high school. By the time she was 15, she got her BA at 18, a master's at 20, and completed the coursework for a PhD in geopolitics. By the time she was 21, she wanted to live like Indiana Jones, spending half her time in the classroom and half her time, saving the world in the jungles of Peru.

16 (25m 23s):
Item number four, camel elephant riding, evasive driving and stunts.

2 (25m 36s):
When

15 (25m 37s):
You're a kid, you have these romantic visions of what you'll be when you grow up, but how many people are so diligent they commit their dreams to paper and make it their life's work to achieve them. How many keep a list amending it, adding to it, ticking things off as they go along well into their adult lives. After finishing the coursework for her PhD, Zora decided to quit school disappointed at the lack of cliffhanging adventure in her doctoral program. And since superheroes who live in the real world need jobs, she decided to seek employment at the only place that would allow her to put all the skills from the list to use.

15 (26m 21s):
Zora wanted to become an agent in the cia and so began a rigorous application process, interviews, psych exams, a three day lie detector test.

16 (26m 33s):
After that, then they, they sent investigators out to interview me, interview my neighbors, interview ex-boyfriends, interview friends, ex-friends, former colleagues, people I worked with, people I used to work with. They threw a question out in the middle of an interview. So what would you do in this situation if, if you were driving down the road and you had one of your native agents with you, someone who's going to give you some information and you were in a third world country somewhere and you were driving a car and you accidentally ran into a dog and people have been out playing the street, children in the street, they see their dog get killed and they get upset and they rush towards the car.

16 (27m 27s):
What do you do in that situation? You don't wanna draw attention to the person who's with you. So what I said was that I would tell my agent to get down lower in the car and I would get out of the car and draw the attention to myself and try to appease them in a certain way, either by giving them money more likely. But, but, and that was an acceptable answer to them. That was a, at the time when I was going through the process, it felt like everything was coming together and I had not felt so much joy probably ever.

2 (28m 8s):
Did

15 (28m 8s):
You tell 'em about your dreams?

16 (28m 11s):
Absolutely not. And I would tell them that I had a sense that I could combine the whole street smarts, intellectual, the education with the sort of adventure personality. And I was actually told that I had the perfect personality for it and that, and that I would do really well. It was like the fruition of my life that it was going to be the step into the next, you know, where, where I would be using all that list and preparation for the next phase, which would be to actually put it into practice.

15 (28m 46s):
About eight months into the interviews, Zora got a letter saying she'd been rejected. She appealed over the next year and a half, partly to find out why they'd turned her down. But the best they could do was to tell her to try again in a few more years. In the end, the CIA wouldn't take her and they wouldn't even tell her why.

16 (29m 6s):
Probably it took me more like two years to recover. I was a basket case. I, I wasn't, I wasn't, I was just down, you know, I would have to work. I couldn't concentrate, sort of slumped down, staring at the wall. I, I put my whole life into examination. All the years of preparation,

15 (29m 37s):
Most of us give up our dreams of superhero adventure when we're adolescents. Zora was only getting to it at the age of 27. Here she knew how to fly a helicopter and survive in the wilderness. But for what she devoted a lot of time to thinking about why she might have been rejected by the cia. Maybe it was all those months she spent with right wing militia groups doing her doctoral research. Maybe she shouldn't have told the CIA how she ended up in a clandestine IRA club one night while on vacation in Ireland. Maybe the CIA didn't like the fact that her father, a professor at the University of Minnesota is an outspoken Serbian nationalist.

15 (30m 18s):
Or maybe it was simply her own fault that she couldn't turn herself into a superhero.

16 (30m 24s):
I had violated the agreement of the list, violated the agreement of of that I made with myself that I had not become what, what that the archetype was. That I had become something lacking. The point being that, that my mythology should have guided me better and it felt like such a final thing.

15 (30m 57s):
So Zora remade herself. She had been virtually isolated from other people since she was 15. When she started actively pursuing the goals on the list, her parents were happy she was so busy cuz she had no time for boys. But now she started working for a woman private investigator. One day when she went to court, she wore her first pair of pantyhose because she was told it would help her look more feminine. Soon after she was schooled in the sheer power of lipstick, a short skirt and a supermodel runway walk to control the minds of others. These days, she works for an international private investigation agency that handles these kinds of cases.

16 (31m 39s):
Child abduction, retrieval, custody, reverse stings, occult and ritualistic crimes. Those tend to be really interesting. I like working on those anti-terrorism, kidnapped protection and return counter-intelligence.

15 (32m 0s):
She's happy doing this work. In a typical case, Zora's agency sent her on a mission to Mexico to do what's known as a reverse scam. The agency was hired by the family of a young woman who'd recently traveled there and fallen in love with a man she planned to marry. After knowing him for only 10 days, the family suspected some sort of con. Zora contacted him pretending she was looking for a girlfriend who used to work with him in the travel industry. She took a photo of a classmate with her to begin the scam.

16 (32m 31s):
I sort of played the distressed American student going to the Spanish school and he invited me on a couple of dates and asked me to come back for the bull fight. What

15 (32m 44s):
Did you wear when you

16 (32m 46s):
Went to meet? Oh, I wore like a little lady bitty skirt and a, and a a little tank top. I made it seem like I had plenty of money and that interested him that, you know, he kind of perked up at that. He never mentioned the whole time that I ever spent any time with him. He never mentioned that there was ever a woman and he, I found him to be pretty emotionally open and very romantic guy. But I honestly felt that he probably was not in love with her.

16 (33m 26s):
That he was taking this as an opportunity to live in the United States. And that was the report I gave

15 (33m 37s):
Before Zora set out for Mexico. I rode with her to the airport. We were late in hurrying through the terminal, just 10 minutes to spare. When she did the strangest thing, she sat down in a chair far from the gate and wouldn't move. I told her she was going to miss her flight, but she didn't budge. I sat down next to her. She said she was scared about the case. About which disguise she might wear, about being found out. No, she said, she said she was afraid that when she got to Mexico people wouldn't like her the next time I was at her house.

15 (34m 17s):
I hadn't noticed before, but I realized her bookshelf was packed with advice on how to build confidence. Titles like Princessa, Machiavelli for women books like that aren't really so far from the idea of keeping a list, having an ongoing plan for self-improvement, believing that if you just put something on paper and stick to it, you can change. Zora still has her list. But while the old list was all about being perfect and saving the world, the new list is very different.

16 (34m 48s):
I need to learn how to play tennis and golf and my new list is windsurfing, tennis, golf. I need to develop some kind of talent like, like I need to learn how to sing properly or to do some kind of comedy or sketches. Acting. Acting. I need to learn how to act. Oh, I need to learn how to sing. Like Billy Holiday.

15 (35m 13s):
She doesn't take the list so seriously these days there are no deadlines. She puts things on the list and later decides not to do them. It's not a grand mission anymore. Now it's just a list.

1 (35m 31s):
Kelly MCGs, she's the host of NPRs embedded podcast. It's been a while since we first broadcast this story and Zora is currently doing a kind of superhero work. She's with the United Nations humanitarian organization that's deployed to conduct investigations in conflict zones, refugee camps, and something called complex emergencies. It's delicate enough work. She said in an email that she cannot name the countries publicly.

17 (35m 58s):
He's a man. A man with a mightest touch, a spiders touch, such a cold finger back in beckons you to enter his web of sin. But don't go in golden words. He will pour in your ear, but his lies can't disguise what you feel

1 (36m 36s):
Noted Billy Holiday imitator David Staris coming up exactly what Superman knows. That jigsaw man does not. Let's in a minute. Chicago Public Radio, when our program continues

18 (36m 49s):
So many options for toilet paper, quintuple, ply. This roll is titanium in forest. This one is made from elderly trees. Is that good? Just grab

19 (36m 58s):
Angels soft. It's simple, soft and strong. And

18 (37m 1s):
For any budget angels, soft, soft, and strong. Simple.

1 (37m 7s):
This American life, Amira Glass. Each program, of course we choose a theme. Bring you own variety of different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's program superpowers and how easy it is to get caught up in the dream of superpowers. Today's show is a rerun. We arrived at Act three, act three. The green team of superhero boy millionaires, the amazing super monkey from Planet Krypton and the man from Shram, my friends, they come in waves a hundred a year or more. Whole armies of them. I'm talking about new superheroes created by the comic book companies. It is rare for any of them to last more than a few issues. The website gone and forgotten is as far as we can tell, the authoritative archive of these failed super souls.

1 (37m 48s):
The guy who runs the site under the title, your humble editor is Jonathan Morris. He says that the few great superheroes have some common sense things going for them. One, they have powers that make intuitive sense. Two, they have a reason for fighting crying. Three, the stories have a human touch to them. You can relate to them. He agreed to come into the studio with a stack of some of the comics that do not quite measure up to those super standards.

20 (38m 15s):
I'm trying to find a very good one. I've brought a ton of comics with me. Let's see, we've got Captain Marvel, who's one of the characters featured on the website. His amazing power is that he can split by which we mean his limbs fall off and then flail around hopefully. I imagine what? Beating up the criminal. I'm not kidding. He says split his arms, legs, and head fall off. And he screams. Yah, I popped apart. And with the word zam, he returns to returns to normal.

1 (38m 46s):
That's a and

20 (38m 47s):
He's flying into action.

1 (38m 48s):
I don't even know why that is one of the most disturbing things I've ever heard.

20 (38m 52s):
This, this company has a, had a number of characters who shared their names with preexisting characters. They had a plastic man who appeared in this very issue in fact, but he was nothing like the, the famous plastic man,

1 (39m 6s):
Which was always an embarrassment to him. He'd be ordering, you know, he'd be ordering online or he'd, he gets

20 (39m 11s):
His mail all the time.

1 (39m 12s):
Exactly. You, they'd make a reservation at a restaurant and then he'd show up and they're like, oh, we thought you were the other plastic man.

20 (39m 18s):
Right. And there's, there's even a point where he hears people, y'all plastic man on the street and he's not, he's long past the point where he's thinking maybe they mean me. No, he knows. They mean the guy in the red. I did bring all thes with Meez music. Perez, the teen first teen president of the United States, a rather earnest young man named Perez Rickard becomes with a name like that, how could he not? He becomes the first teenage president of the United States there. This is a, this is the issue right before he has to fight vampires too, which I was not a responsibility. I was aware the president had, but apparently it's rather important

1 (40m 1s):
Now, what is his superpower? Like? What, how, what kind of president does he make? Well

20 (40m 5s):
He's, he kind of fits in that dock Savage Batman mold where he's mostly a very well-trained human. And thanks to his Indian companion, eagle freeze's menagerie of animals. He learns the, learns several animal skills, helping teach press record how to be fast as a, an antelope, swing like a monkey, fight like a bear. I guess,

1 (40m 27s):
You know, I've always thought that, that the United States presidency would be so much more effective if the president had the powers to communicate and control the animals. Well,

20 (40m 34s):
There's one thing that Perez proves, it's that there's nothing that the President couldn't solve with two fists and Indian companion and a small army of birds and elephants.

1 (40m 50s):
If you were to explain to people the characteristics of a bad comic book superhero,

20 (40m 57s):
There are, yeah, there are obviously a lot of ways you can screw up. One of the ways is to just overdo it and, and cram the, the elements of the character down the reader's throats. One of the, the characters was B Man and everything about him was bees. His full name was Barry e Eames. He was attacked by mutant bees, which was sent to earth by space alien bee people. And he himself became a mutant bee person who had bee powers and lived in a hive and ate honey and stole gold because gold looked like honey and he could sting you. There is nothing be related this man refused to do.

20 (41m 38s):
It's if you, you, you meet somebody at a bar, you start talking to him and you realize he only has one interest in life. That's exactly what Beeman was. Everything would've gotten back to bees. You start talking about what you watched on television last night, he'll say, you know, I saw an interesting show on bees.

1 (41m 59s):
Do certain comic superheroes come out of particular moments in the nation's history?

20 (42m 7s):
Positively. That's another thing that, that really works against a character is when they're tied into tightly to a fad or tied into tightly to something that is identifying an era. There's a character created in the seventies, but who was supposed to be a retro character from the fifties name of 3D man to help hook up on the 3D movies that were craze in the fifties. Terrible flat character. Nothing going on.

1 (42m 31s):
And when you say 3D man, what was his power?

20 (42m 33s):
Huh? He, he had a, a magical pair of glasses and had the strength of three men and that's it. He was the strongest three people, the fastest three people, whatever that means, probably three times faster than a human being. I they always

1 (42m 51s):
Describe it as

20 (42m 51s):
It's so as something as so much as three men. But I don't see how you can be three times as, or be, have the agility of three men. They, there's just three guys who are agile. Doesn't make any sense. I have a little trouble with 3D man. Part of the problem with, with just naming off the superheroes or going through their powers is that on the face value, there's not a superhero who doesn't seem silly because you have to get to a point where the man's wearing a costume and he's driving around fighting crime.

1 (43m 25s):
Then, then where does the line come where they rise above that? Do you have a theory on this about what makes a good one and a bad one? I

20 (43m 32s):
Have sort of a half formed theory. I know that one of the things that really helps the superpower get over with the audience, get over with the readers is if it's something they can apply to their normal lives and perhaps by way of fantasy. And that's, I think why super strength, super speed and vulnerability or just general toughness are often so common. If you can get on the court with it, get that super accuracy and get a slam dunk from mid court and, and really just school over somebody, then that's probably a superpower you want, you know. But when you start getting into powers like one character who had magnetic eyes of superpower, which is a little too esoteric to even understand.

1 (44m 15s):
Yeah, I don't even understand anything you say it, what does it mean? Magnetic eyes of superpower.

20 (44m 20s):
But yeah, in his first appearance he announced that he had magnetic eyes of superpower. They would, they would illustrate little beams coming out of his eyes, making metal things shoot right at them, which would be terrible in a room full

1 (44m 31s):
Of forks. Jonathan Morris, who brought a few of his 15,000 comics into the studio, has written a few books on weird superheroes, including the League of Regrettable superheroes and the League of Regrettable sidekicks Act four villain enable, of course, you can't have a superhero without a super villain. And the most interesting super villains, of course, are the ones who think that they are the real heroes, that they're the ones living by a true code of honor, not the guys in the capes.

1 (45m 13s):
This story comes from Glenn Washington.

21 (45m 18s):
Rule number one, whatever it is you do always look good doing it. See now my quantum drive, the lithium core dimension jumping rocket ship does not just go fast. It's sharp, baby. Yes, that is a new chrome alloy and no, it is not available in stores. Recognized. And please understand if they had made the big fuss about how unbreakable the new security system was, I wasn't even abo check the tape. I sat there for 45 minutes, big sack, full of jewels in my lap before I finally pulled the alarm my damn self.

21 (45m 59s):
That's when the fun stopped. I hopped in my rocket ship and told through the middle of downtown metropolis, making up all kinds of commotion, sirens, helicopters, police lights, I'm having a ball. Then here he comes, Superman and right on cue the lady starts screaming, oh, Superman, superman, superman. So brave. It is not brave to go in the burning building when you do not burn. It ain't brave to get shot when you don't feel bullets. Stupid man. Nothing stops him. Nothing. Kryptonite, please. I think he started that nonsense.

21 (46m 39s):
I tried everything. Kryptonite, rays, kryptonite, missiles. Once I had the full lock in a kryptonite, coffin. Oh, oh, it hurts. Kryptonite, kryptonite. Then he broke out and started tearing up my secret laugh it, it just never stops Then. Then he's got the nerve to put on some glasses and suddenly he's incognito. Like I'm stupid. I even call him out at the club. What's up Superman? How you doing Superman, Clark steady looking all around our corny like, I must be talking to somebody else. Excuse me. Oh, what's going on here? Whatever man. And no, this had nothing to do with Lois Lane.

21 (47m 23s):
You wanna know what this is about? You wanna know what this beef is about? One thing and one thing only. Jungle fever. Superman had it bad. Call me what you want to. But Clark Kent was up in Legends nightclub seven nights a week chasing the chocolate. Goodness. And I'm not hating. I understand. So one night I'm ordering my Hennessy turn around and there he is talking to Sheila, my Sheila, and I'm like, oh hell to the Nall, but I'm supposed to step to the man of steel and on top of everything else, Superman's got that mind controlled.

21 (48m 5s):
How else Sheila going to get up in front of everybody in the club and walk out with Clark? Kent explain me that she was with me. She came there with me. So yeah, I stalked him. I followed him. I know I'm better than his mama and I don't know him at all. He's weird. Like he's reading the words that come out of his mouth for a while I thought he was a robot. Cause everybody breaks characters sometimes, but not Superman. I trail him with my special scene everywhere machine.

21 (48m 47s):
He knew I was watching the whole time and he didn't care. Why should he? Do you know what Superman does in his apartment by himself? Huh? Nothing. Just sits there, doesn't turn on the tv, doesn't eat cereal, doesn't watch porn. He does nothing but sit there and look stupid. I I had to take him out. I tried to take him out. I I couldn't take him out at first. If you don't succeed, try again and again and again. And every time he's all flying me back to jail. Steady making pronounce about fighting evil. I am nobody's evil.

21 (49m 28s):
I just don't think we should be letting aliens from outer space roll up in here with our women. That's right. I said it. Our women now I'm evil, please. My name is Darnell and what I am is the student of the game. The rules clearly state when the big dog is up in your way, accept the place son or, or you go get you some more juice. I needed power. Crazy power. Power like the sun. I started looking and my brand new secret laboratory turns out there are dimensions between the dimensions and dimensions between that the deeper you dig, the stronger the force, the stronger the power.

21 (50m 15s):
All this technology. And in the end, I didn't just find power, I found God and I put him in a gun. At least I think it's God or maybe it's the devil. It's really simple though. At the end of the universe, the end of time, the end of everything, it is going to ask you what matters. No more waiting eon for your personal judgment day. My little shooter sent you there with a quickness and you can't lie. You can't lie.

21 (50m 56s):
God will have her answer. So anyway, Superman was hovering in front of my chrome grill, rocket ship. I went on the head and fired my tractor beam, useless superman, rip the hatch off my ship like it was wrapping paper. I I you got me stop tearing up my ride. Your reign of terrors come to an end. The crowd cheer. Superman's days stayed fixed into the distance. As he flew me off to prison. I even gave him a couple minutes. Hey Clark, he didn't turn his head, didn't look at me. I was not worth the effort to him.

21 (51m 38s):
Hey Clark, I've got a present for you. I shot God right between his eyes. It was instantaneous. I saw Superman at the end of a universe. Then King, the question, will you give your life to save this world? Or will you live as a hero knowing the earth is doomed. Tough one Clark. Lay down your life like a new Jesus or keep up with this fake hero act.

21 (52m 25s):
Superman bowed his head and answered instantly softly. Hero. Hero. Ha. Finally, at long last, super duper man was off script. Then we were back in the sky. Superman still flying me off the jail. The air was warm, salty, delicious. I spoke and a little voice cause I know he's got that s hearing.

2 (52m 59s):
Clark.

21 (53m 0s):
Clark, I heard you Clark, I heard you sell us out. Nothing. Nothing. No reaction at all. Then he blinked. Just the blink and everything changed. We sped towards the ground. I didn't scream because I couldn't scream, I couldn't inhale. We landed soft like a swan kissing the water. He released me, his eyes shown his mouth hung open in shock. Then Superman shrieked. The air burned. Yeah, he looked at me then yeah, for the first time ever, he looked at me.

21 (53m 46s):
Then I spit in his face, it ran down his cheek and his eye. He shot up into the air, speeding toward the sun. See, life hurts. We all have hard choices to make. I had my own decision in front of the line. But that, see that's a whole other story.

2 (54m 27s):
Hip

1 (54m 29s):
Glen Washington, he challenges all be speckled, seemingly mild mannered nees as well. I know in his job as host of the public radio show and podcast Snap Judgment, where this story first appeared. He just launched a new show that's the evil twin of Snap Judgment. It's called Snap Judgment. Presents spooked available wherever you get your podcast,

22 (54m 57s):
Boy. Walking through the woods, seize a castle of tower and he saves all by passes is on the and starts he can fly. It's Superhuman

1 (55m 34s):
Buddhi today by Alex Bloomberg and myself with Blue Chevy. Jonathan Goldstein and Sterly Kind, our senior producer for today's show. Julie Snyder, production out on today's rerun from Evelyn Mustafa. Music help from Mr. John Connors. Our technical director is Mr. Matt Tierney. Mixing help from Jared Ford, Katherine Rayo and Stone Nelson. Special thanks today to James Hulk, r a Andrews, Seth Fisher, Adam Warren, Jason Bennett, Ivan Brunetti, Axel Alonzo's spouse, the band Jason Goodell and Seth Middens. Our website, this american life.org and where you can find a cartoon by Chris Ware, who we interviewed at the beginning of our program cartoon about superheroes and their power over us, which is beautiful. Actually, Chris's most recent graphic novel is Rusty Brown, part one, A retrospective of his work opens at the Basil Cartoon Museum this summer.

1 (56m 18s):
His American Life is distributed by prx, the Public Radio Exchange. Thanks as always to our program's co-founder, Mr. To Manilla, who told me back when he first hired me, you

6 (56m 27s):
Have the ability to walk around, work, perhaps show up at one point and perhaps like go away for a little while and turn invisible and then come back and listen to what they say about you.

1 (56m 38s):
I'm I glass back next week with more stories of this American life. Next week on the podcast of this American life. It's been five years since Me Too, really kicked in gear.

1 (57m 20s):
We've seen famous, powerful man brought down, but we haven't heard much about what the aftermath has been like for the women who came forward. Like Jules

23 (57m 28s):
Going public has impacted my girls in a lot of ways. One of them said, mommy, why do you have to be a survivor? And that just broke my heart.

1 (57m 40s):
This next week on the podcast, we're in your local public radio station.