0 (0s):
Support for this American life comes from Novo. You're making something new with your business to support you. Novo built a new kind of business checking instead of a one size fits all approach. Novo is customized to your business to save you time and free up cashflow. Sign up for your free business checking account right now at novo.co/american. Plus get access to over $5,000 in perks and discounts. Go to N O V o.co/american to sign up for free and ovo.co/american Novo platforming cause a FinTech, not a bank baking services provided by Middlesex, federal savings, FFA member, FDAC terms and conditions apply a quick warning. There are curse words that are and beeped in today's episode of the show.

0 (43s):
If you prefer a beeped version, you can find that at our website, this American life.org and Jayna Bacio is health and human relations class. They're studying puberty now and for the entire period, the sixth grade boys are squirming moving fidgeting, chatty mess. And can I say, as they get deeper into the material, they do not seem to see much of an upside to puberty at all, anywhere when they noticed that one of their books uses the word enjoyable to describe sex on boy declares. I don't

2 (1m 13s):
Think so. That's disgusting.

3 (1m 15s):
Why are you saying that?

2 (1m 17s):
Because it's discussable

0 (1m 18s):
And when Ms. Bocho asked the boys look looking forward to any part of puberty

2 (1m 22s):
Growing in height, not anything else.

1 (1m 26s):
Okay. A lot of things are growing a lot.

3 (1m 29s):
So is there anything that you're not looking forward to?

2 (1m 33s):
I'm not looking forward to PV care.

3 (1m 35s):
Why?

2 (1m 38s):
Because it might be weird.

3 (1m 41s):
What else are you not looking forward to?

4 (1m 44s):
This is what has more like a lot more like getting really smelling like a moose from the smell more bad. You're going to sweat your shirt's going to get off. It's going to get worse,

5 (1m 53s):
Kylie. I was younger. It didn't smell like this.

4 (1m 56s):
And now I smelled the night. It's like, smell, you smelled better now. Like you smell bad.

0 (2m 0s):
They said that shaving seems like it's going to be a drag, which by the way, good call kids. Several boys squealed the deal illustration of pubic hair. And the book looked like Burke, macaroni and cheese near the end of class. One of the kids Jack told me the part of what's a freaky is that you just don't know when puberty is going to strike you.

5 (2m 18s):
That was scary because it's not like a set date and time it can happen when you're eight or happen when you're 16. So you're not like a hundred percent prepared. It's like a mysterious like monster, you know, it's going to get,

0 (2m 33s):
So it's like, you know that there's this thing that's coming to get you. You don't know when it's going to be and you're going to be totally different on the other side of it.

5 (2m 40s):
Yeah.

0 (2m 42s):
And the opposite end of the country and Northern California ten-year-old Paris. Was it a similar class caused by puberty for moms and girls. She described the approaching monster in different terms that got across pretty much the same idea.

5 (2m 55s):
It's a little scary almost it's I guess it's a, like on the edge of a cliff, like, like there's a really good movie coming out and you're just about to see it. But people say it's that it's it's it can be either bad or good. And you're not really sure which

0 (3m 14s):
Paris totally reported that she talked to Marianne McCune, that she was one of the first ones in her class to hit puberty. Which of course is not fun. Like most kids, I think she did not like looking different from everybody else.

5 (3m 27s):
It's like, like, you don't want it to happen. Like you want your body to stay the same. You don't want your body to look gross. And it's kind of gross. I mean different. Yeah. I really didn't want to.

6 (3m 41s):
Did you think there might be a way out?

5 (3m 45s):
No, I didn't think he was going to be a way out. I mean, I was hoping that there would be some type of medicine or something that I could take and it would go away, but no, it didn't really work that way.

0 (4m 2s):
A lot of kids feel this way and these classes, they ask the teachers, why does this have to happen? And is there any way I can stay a kid? It's crazy to be told you can't do anything about this. It's coming. And when it happens, everything will be different. How many things in our lives are like that? What a day in our show, we have stories of people dealing with the inevitable, trying to do their best, trying to stay themselves through these things that can be so confusing and potentially soul crushing. And we're not gonna mess around today with little inevitable things in life with traffic and relative you don't like. And what happens if you never brush your teeth? No, no, no. We're going to go with the big ones. We're going to go with two inescapable things that are absolutely certain at whatever show is about death.

0 (4m 46s):
Act two is about taxes. These are do things that are unavoidable. That actually, I think most of us don't know that much about. And today we turn to people who know more than us prepared to be surprised at what they say from WB easy. Chicago is this American life. I'm Eric Glass stay with us Like one death. So we can only guess what happens to us after we die. But we do not have to guess it. What happens right before the most of us remain ignorant until we arrive at that moment, ourselves, Nancy Updike found a spot where she could understand all this better.

0 (5m 27s):
She went there back in 2014, which is when we first broadcast today's show here's Nancy.

8 (5m 33s):
Before I tell you where I went, let me tell you why I wanted to go four years ago. My mother's husband EISA was dying. She was taking care of him at home with help from a hospice. And I went to be with her and him for the last 10 days of his life. He was this tall, very funny man, with beautiful manners who adored my mother. I felt clumsy and helpless all the time. In those last days with EISA with my mom. I didn't know what to say to someone who's dying. I didn't know how to be. I'm sure that's true for lots of people. I remember checking in on EISA one afternoon and asking him if he needed anything. He looked at me and said, I need everything.

8 (6m 16s):
We both laughed. That was the closest I ever got to talking with him about what was happening. There were people around who did know what to do though. The nurses, I watched them from my stupor of awkwardness. They never brought any false cheer into the room with ASAP, which is hard not to do with the dying person. They were direct. When Jackie, the weekend day nurse left the Sunday, before ACE had died, she said to him, is it okay if I kiss your hand? And then she said, God willing, I'll see you next week. The nurses knew how to deal with us. The rest of the family too. One of the nurses, Jenny got me cleaning out the fridge.

8 (6m 58s):
One morning. We did it together for an hour and a half. Just talking, passing the time it wasn't until later that I realized, oh, she did that for me to give me something to do. It was a strange feeling to know I was that transparent to her For the last hour of ACEs life. The people in the room where my mother, one of ASIS sons, Jenny and me, we held ACEs hands. Jenny was standing and she sometimes touched ACEs head gently. She told him it's all right. It's okay. Your family is okay. Everyone is all right.

8 (7m 38s):
ACEs eyes were open. They'd been that way. All day. He was staring up and to the right, over our heads. He didn't see us. He moaned every once in a while. And we spoke to him when he moaned the four of us, watched his breathing slow down and get shallower until he was taking just sips of air. When he was very close to the end, Jenny brought over a glass of water and a little dropper that we'd been using to moisten ACEs mouth. And she told us each to take the dropper and give him some water and say our names close to his ear so that he would know who was giving him each bit of water as a ritual. It felt comforting and sad and vaguely religious and EISA son.

8 (8m 19s):
And I were both crying. I had no idea how badly we'd needed a ritual at that moment until Jenny gave us one, I had never seen the kind of expertise these nurses had. They knew death. They seem to understand it. Whereas I, even though I had just watched someone fade away and die great in front of me, all I could think was what just happened. How much of a hold all of this had on me still until I heard a stranger talking a few months ago about how his mother is a nurse who works in a hospice facility, seeing people die almost every day.

8 (9m 8s):
And then he went on to say that after his mother had worked there for a few months, she forgot the president's name. And when she mentioned that to her boss, her boss said, yeah, that happens. That's normal here. Your brain is blocking out a lot of what you're seeing. And some other stuff is getting blocked too. My first thought was my God. Of course they're experts not robots. My second thought was, I need to go to this place and talk to these people.

9 (9m 41s):
Oop, this guy wants to pass me. Usually nobody ever passes me. I'm on my best behavior with you in here.

8 (9m 48s):
So this is Patty Burnham. She's the one who forgot the president's name. That was five years ago, though. She's on top of it. Now Patty is a registered nurse and the place she works as an inpatient hospice, about 30 minutes north of Boston called the Kaplan family hospice house. We're driving there. Now Patty's got a double shift today. I told her my whole backstory. So she knows why I'm here. Patty's five, eight blonde full of energy, even though it's 6:00 AM. She's lived in this part of Massachusetts. Her whole life worked at a hospital that is a nurse at our kid's school. And then when they graduated, she was looking for another job and she went to the Kaplan house.

9 (10m 28s):
I pulled into the parking lot and thought, wow, this place is beautiful. And then I noticed off to the left. There's a sort of a back entrance, the garage entrance. And there were two funeral home cars pulled up there waiting. And I just sat in the parking lot, sort of staring at the house and staring at the cars and wondering what could possibly be going on in that building.

8 (10m 57s):
Hospice can mean a building like Kaplan or home care like EISA had. They both mean the same thing. The patient is not looking to be cured. It's palliative care for people at the end of their life. Kaplan house actually is beautiful. All the rooms have big windows. The lobby and main common area have vaulted ceilings and skylights. Nothing is covered in plastic. I overheard one family member of a patient say the thing I like about this place is there. Isn't a phony plant in here. All the flowers are real. There's a big kitchen for any patients who can still eat. Patty speed walks by.

9 (11m 35s):
I need a fruit cup for room four, please. And thank you.

8 (11m 38s):
This is not just a place for rich people. With private insurance, lots of patients are on Medicare or Medicaid. Kaplan house is run by a nonprofit called care dimensions. And the bulk of what they do is home care. Kaplan house has rooms for just 20 patients and it's not full today, but Patty's busy. She rushes between rooms and then slows down. As soon as she steps inside one.

9 (12m 2s):
Does she look comfortable to you?

8 (12m 7s):
Patty's talking to crystal, the daughter of a 51 year old woman named Lori who came to Kaplan house a few hours ago. She has lung cancer. It's metastasized to her brain. Lori's delirious making sounds, but not speaking much anymore. Her family has been taking care of her at home. They tell Patty that Lauria was like to look good. She has a perfect red manicure and pedicure.

9 (12m 31s):
Yeah. You've been taking beautiful care of her. She looks beautiful. If you want to chat about anything, if you have any questions about the medications or what's going on. Yeah. You know, we can step outside any in, you know, you might not have any questions now, but they might come up. Right? Yep. Okay.

8 (12m 54s):
The questions do come up. Crystal comes and finds Patty and she does something I remember doing crystal starts out asking about one small specific thing to try and get a handle on what's happening. She wants to know what is the tube that's on her mother's face right under her nose. She asks so quietly. It's hard to hear, but she says, what's the thing on her nose. She smells like bleach.

11 (13m 18s):
What's that thing on her knowns. She smells like bleach

9 (13m 23s):
Oxygen. That's just oxygen. Yeah.

8 (13m 26s):
This question basically. What is that thing on my mother's face that is making her look and smell like she's not my mother. That's just the first in a giant unsorted pile of questions about what's happening and why, and what am I supposed to be doing? And feeling crystal says some of the family and friends in the room have been saying that no one should touch Laurie.

9 (13m 47s):
Not to touch her here. You can touch her.

8 (13m 50s):
From there. She tells Patty in one long crying sentence that people in the room had been telling her mother that it's okay to let go. And one of the times someone said it, her mother, all of a sudden said no. And what does that mean since she's delirious? And should I be saying it's okay for her to let go. In some ways I wish she would let go. So she wouldn't suffer any more. But I feel weird even thinking that, and my mom's gotten close to the end like this a few times before, and then she's come back and maybe that's what's happening. And some people in the room are saying, you guys are drugging her. So that she'll die faster. And I don't know about any of this. I don't know. Patty listens to the whole thing and then jumps in

9 (14m 28s):
A lot of people. Crystal ask these questions. We are not drugging her to put her to sleep. I wouldn't do this job. If that was the case, your mom, I'm sorry to say is dying. You know, she has started her dying process. This is what everything you're seeing is part of the dying process.

11 (14m 50s):
Cause I know they keep, you know, she's going to die and she's done this like three or four times and got through it. And I'm just wondering what,

9 (14m 59s):
So the things I'm seeing that makes me think that it's this time, this is the time is her heart is beating really, really fast and just sort of fluttering. Like you can't feel a good, strong pulse out here. Her legs and her hands are cold. Her feet up at showing a telltale sign that we see called modeling where the feet get in the knees get sort of dappled like little purplish marks. And it just means her body's conserving all our blood to be around here. I would bet my nursing license that your mother is not going to turn around from this. But if her body is meant to turn around, I'm not giving her anything that will allow her to turn around.

9 (15m 45s):
Does that make sense to you?

8 (15m 51s):
I remember standing with my mother and one of the ACEs nurses in the kitchen and having this conversation that this is it conversation. There's so many stages to a long decline dips and resurgences and good days. And you know, you know, it's all the same thing. It's all dying, but there's a huge difference between dying and the very last part of dying, what Patty and the other nurses called actively dying a process that can take hours or even days. But it's different from what comes before and being familiar with one doesn't mean you'll recognize the other. I talked to Patty later and I asked her how she knows when someone is actively dying.

8 (16m 33s):
How does she know it so well that she would say, I'd bet my nursing license, that this is what's happening.

9 (16m 39s):
I don't always feel that way. You know? Yeah. It's a weird thing because when I came to work at the Kaplan house, you know, and I was registered nurse and had worked as a nurse for awhile, I, I followed another nurse Jeanette for a month and I was floored by the whole dying process. Cause it was nothing that I had learned. And I saw Jeanette say to a family, she woke them up and said, he's dying. He's dying right now. And the man had been there. The patient had been there for a week and I, I didn't know what was different.

9 (17m 22s):
I didn't know what she saw. That was different. And when I asked her to explain it to me and to teach it to me, she said, you'll know you just need about a month here. And you'll know,

8 (17m 34s):
I talked to a palliative care doctor who told me that the most important thing she got better at with experience was looking for openings that allow you to be helpful. Little windows, little moments with hospice. Part of is trying to help people take in bit by bit the realness of what's happening. Some dying people, no surprise are not at all. Okay. With the fact that they're dying and they don't often get a chance to just say so I saw a home care nurse talking to a man, a former math teacher in his sixties. She was talking about antidepressants asking him whether he was depressed.

8 (18m 15s):
He thought about it. And he said, well, I'm not jump out the window depressed more like what the fuck happened? EISA was a Courtney man. I never heard him swear or even speak harshly in my life. But I could tell how frustrated he was sometimes by the sheer logistics of being a dying person. The imposition of it, sometimes just the question do you want? This seemed overwhelming. Dying is a constant series of judgment calls and decisions based on options that are very far from what anyone would want.

8 (18m 57s):
And one thing the nurses are experienced at is trying to make the best of those narrow options.

9 (19m 3s):
Joanne, it is no bother. First of all, and Christiana and I we're going to do it together. I would love to give you a shower before you head home.

8 (19m 15s):
Patty's crouching next to a woman named Joanne. Who's going home later today. She has lung cancer and she's been getting hospice care at home, but her pain got worse. So she came to the Kaplan house for a few days of round the clock supervision. While the doctors adjusted her pain, medications, people sometimes come in and out of Kaplan house like this they're dying, but they still have time left in their lives. And the staff tries to get their symptoms under control pain or vomiting or whatever it is so that they can do more with that time than just be sick. This room smells bad. It's strong. Joanne hasn't been able to shower in a little while. She said she has a hard time doing it at home.

8 (19m 56s):
She's tiny in the bed. Barely looking up talking almost inaudibly. But our strength of will is intact. She knows the ambulance. Can't pick her up and take her home until later. But she wants to be home now already. And anything that isn't going home is something she doesn't want to do. Even though a couple of hours ago. She was glad when Patty suggested a shower, because it's much easier to do here. When two people can get on either side of her and steady her,

9 (20m 23s):
I just feel like this is such a great opportunity. Cause it's so hard to do at home. And there's two of us here.

12 (20m 30s):
Why can't I take a shower and my child,

9 (20m 35s):
Do you do that regularly at home? Or is it hard? Because you need two people because you were telling me you don't feel that safe with the left side.

12 (20m 42s):
Yeah. But I do have, what do you call it? I have

9 (20m 48s):
The bar that you hold on to and stuff. Yeah. You want a back rub or a,

10 (20m 57s):
Okay.

9 (20m 58s):
Okay. Yeah. It helps with your pain. We can put some lotion. Can we wash your back? When I head into the bathroom and you can sort of sit on this in the bathroom. Okay, let's do that.

8 (21m 14s):
Maybe you can tell where Patty's going with this. I'd seen her taking care of Joanne and others all day. People clearly in the midst of some of the worst days of their lives, afraid in pain, sick of being sick. And it takes serious skills to be able to nudge somebody in that situation toward thing that they don't think they want, but are very glad when they get it.

9 (21m 36s):
Can we take your pants down so she can get your backside? Is that a comfortable position for you? Joanne? You do know we're getting pretty close to a shower. You sure you don't look at, look at how Go ahead.

8 (22m 7s):
Joanne's husband. Larry had been sitting quietly in the room this whole time. He'd agreed that a shower was a good idea, but he didn't want to push Joanne on it. And then he seemed happy when she decided to do it. Once she was in both he and Joanne relaxed a bit, Joanne joked around with Patty in the shower. And Larry got up to leave and go home to get the house ready for. When Joanne got back, they've been married 27 years.

9 (22m 33s):
Do you, do you want to give them a grocery list or anything? Giant Little honeydew list before you get there.

10 (22m 41s):
Okay. Love you hun.

9 (22m 48s):
Your tailbone sore. All right. We'll make sure to get that.

8 (22m 54s):
There's a note on the Medicare website about hospice saying hospice isn't just for cancer. I saw people at Kaplan house with other conditions and stage dementia, congestive heart failure, but mostly I saw cancer had cancer at the Kaplan house. I realized I had questions about the physical part of what had happened with him. I saw other people who had that extreme cancer thinness. I learned the medical term Coquette deck it's from Greek words. That mean bad condition. In a few rooms. I saw the same swabs, these little green sponges on the end of his stick that we use to keep ACEs mouth clean and moist.

8 (23m 35s):
The swab stayed with me because I remember being grateful that they gave us away a small way. We could care for EISA. Even after he'd stopped, being able to tell us what he wanted. That was the hardest time for me, at least to hear him groaning and not know what to do or not. Do we grilled the nurses about what they thought was going on and what we should do. And at the Kaplan house, I saw that a significant part of the nurses jobs is trying to figure out what a person might need when they can't communicate anymore.

9 (24m 10s):
Are you having pain? Does it something Kurt

8 (24m 17s):
Patty's back in Laurie's room. Crystal's mother it's nighttime. We're into the double part of Patty's double shift and Lori is moving around a lot in the bed. It sounds terrible to say, but I felt comforted to see it and to see others at Kaplan house do it too, because I'd seen it with EISA. Apparently it's common toward the end. It's called terminal agitation. Lori's family hasn't slept in 24 hours because Lori was up all night, last night, delirious moving sometimes trying to get out of bed, even though she's too weak to stand and could easily break a bone. If she falls, it's exhausting to deal with and hard to watch the problem with agitation as a palliative care doctor told me is that it isn't a diagnosis.

8 (25m 4s):
It's something you see, but the person can be doing it for lots of reasons. Each of which calls for a different approach, they could be constipated, anxious in pain. Some combination, a dying person is like a baby that way, except we know even less about a dying person's brain than we do about a babies. Some of the guesses we make are based on what we know from coma patients, but a dying brain is not a comatose brain. It's different. And in terms of what a dying person perceives someone, who's, non-responsive the science of it. We know almost nothing. The nurses told me. They assume that people can hear us right to the end, but no one knows for sure.

8 (25m 49s):
Laurie's eyes are open, but it's that distant stare like EISA had, she's not seeing what's in front of her. Her mouth is open and she's squirming in the bed. She was a sign language interpreter. And sometimes she seems to be signing, but no one in the room knows what she's saying. If anything

9 (26m 4s):
You want to tell us something

8 (26m 6s):
Is right up close talking to Laurie, watching her face. It's something I saw the nurses do with EISA to get right up close and talk to him and watch his face. Even after he seemed to have stopped responding Because sometimes suddenly he would respond, especially to direct questions. Like, Are you in pain? Laurie gives a small shake of her head and says no.

9 (26m 31s):
Oh good. Oh, I'm glad to hear that. Yeah. Do you have to pay I'm I'm thinking of putting a catheter in to help you pee. Yeah, I think, I think it's probably bothering her. She hasn't paid and yeah, I'm going to do that. Okay.

8 (26m 59s):
Patty and Christiana, one of the hospice aids put in a catheter and the bag immediately starts filling up. Laurie relaxes the whole family relaxes, or at least they're able to give into their exhaustion. Lori's girlfriend. Karen finds Patty in the hall.

14 (27m 16s):
They can't adopt. I said that you might chances actually fall asleep and die asleep because the cancer doctor know newer. Well too, if you knew she was a toughie, you know,

9 (27m 26s):
She is a toughie. I think the catheter is really helping her to settle down. Good.

14 (27m 31s):
Yeah. I think I'm going to go home, take a shower, relax as much as again. And then

9 (27m 36s):
If I see a major change, I will call you. But as I said, sometimes they just sneak away. Yeah.

14 (27m 43s):
I know. I'm not surprised. Yeah. You know? Yeah. You know my number,

16 (27m 51s):
You know, you feel useless.

8 (27m 53s):
This is the sister of another patient. She came straight from work to be with him and has been here day and night for two days. I've been talking to her a lot. Hey I'm okay. I know the strain of this waiting where nothing is happening and your brain keeps flipping between the giant existential thing that's going on. And the tedious, nuts and bolts of just getting through every hour, every moment seems full of meaning and yet different, not meaningful at all. It's surreal. And it is crazy-making how are you doing?

16 (28m 24s):
Doing I'm exhausted. Yeah. I'm exhausted. I'm just, It's like, what am I doing? I'm just watching him. Like, like last night I was, he does his like tell you what he does. He makes us noise like, but nonstop. So I try to do it with him. You know? Like not as loud as I can not hold it. As long as he kept going, I'm like this, kid's not even gonna stop to take a breath. Me. I'm like, it's exhausting and he can do it. Well, he must really think I'm not, there's nothing else to do with soul.

16 (29m 5s):
I don't know what I want to do. I mean, it's not like you can, Oh no, don't be sorry. It's you know what you know, I'm just sitting here. I feel like just sitting I've you can't do anything. I'm tired of praying to God really I'm tired. But I told him I'd stay with him. And I don't want to. I mean, even if he doesn't know I'm here or not, I know I'm here.

8 (29m 34s):
I never knew what anyone was going to say at the Kaplan house, listening to family members in rooms and in the halls, I got the feeling that their brains were full to the brim with what was happening and asking them any question, tipped all their thoughts out in a rush. Some people told me the whole story of their family members, diagnosis and treatment up to five minutes ago, I heard one of the doctors say to an 84 year old woman who was sitting with her dying husband, you know him better than we do. Does he look comfortable to you? The woman responded by telling the entire story of their relationship. Starting with we met when I was 13, the staff has a name for that kind of answer.

8 (30m 14s):
It's called life review. They see it happens a lot. And I heard life reviews that were a lot darker than that one. Not every death is the end of a well lived life, but all the stories seem to be trying to tackle the same huge question. How did we get here?

9 (30m 40s):
The grief is one thing, but watching somebody die is a whole nother thing.

8 (30m 45s):
Patty, again, you

9 (30m 46s):
Know, not everybody can sit beside a dying person and hold their hand. And you know, I, I, I think sometimes it's too much. Nobody wants their loved ones to be alone. I get that. But you know, you could wait here for days and days. And when you go to take that one shower is when the person might die. You know?

8 (31m 5s):
And sometimes, you know, people I've talked to say, it's common that the person will die. Well, wait, you know, they'll, it's almost like they're waiting for everyone to kind of go away. Does that? What you found?

9 (31m 20s):
I see that over and over and over again. When I first started working there and like, this is a bit of mumbo jumbo And it just seemed like, come on now I'm repeating the same stuff that I heard people say when I first got there, cause I've seen it.

8 (31m 36s):
You mean that people die when, when either everyone leaves the room or you know, their spouse or their child, or whoever's been there for a long time. Yeah. They die after that person leaves the room. Yup.

9 (31m 50s):
Or they're comatose. And they, the loved ones keep saying, he's waiting for his brother to get here on Saturday. They're coming from Florida on Saturday and I'm inside. Rolling my eyes, thinking it's Tuesday, he's going to die on Wednesday or Thursday. He's not going to be here on Saturday for, for when his brother arrives from Florida. And then the brother arrives at Logan shows up at the Kaplan house at 1230 and the patient dies at one. And they say to me, I told you he just needed, you know, Billy to come from Florida. And it's like what?

8 (32m 31s):
Talking to people about whoever they were visiting at the Kaplan house always brought up other earlier losses. Always one woman was sitting with her mother told me about how her husband had died. Suddenly eight years earlier, making her a widow at age 51, a woman who his younger sister was dying, said she lost both parents before age 13, a woman visiting her brother told me about how his daughter had died years ago. And only two years old. The woman said her brother was so angry about his daughter's death that he said to her, his sister, why couldn't it have been one of your effing daughters you've got to, It was like a map. This death related to that death over there linked to this living person here, hidden geography, shaping all of our lives.

8 (33m 20s):
After I'd been at the Kaplan house for several days, I ran into Larry, the husband of Joanne, the woman, Patty coaxed into getting a shower before going home. Larry was sitting alone in the main common area. I knew it couldn't be good. That Joanne was back so soon.

17 (33m 35s):
Well, the doctor was in early. We, they, when the doctor said, she thought she got like a week or so left,

10 (33m 39s):
I wasn't there.

17 (33m 43s):
I figured she was closing in on that. If that was the way I've watched her deteriorate. But When you hear somebody who's used to dealing with this for a living, tell you what, what they think that's what's left. That's all.

10 (33m 57s):
I'm so sorry. Larry

17 (34m 1s):
Bitter pill to swallow, but that's life Goes on no matter what.

8 (34m 14s):
One of the many ways I've been a smug idiot in my life was by disparaging. The use of euphemisms for death and dying. I thought it was weak. Who would do that by the time EISA was at the end, I had barely been able to utter the words, death or dying for several months. I felt like the thing itself was only manageable. If I didn't invoke it. Patty told me that one of her strategies for protecting herself at work is never to imagine herself in the place of the dying person or their family members. She tries not to picture her husband or her kids. I remember trying and failing at that. I think part of my clumsiness around EISA and my mother was my barely suppressed terror at the thought of my own husband dying.

8 (34m 58s):
I pictured myself and my mother's place all the time, Every morning, before going to her apartment, I pulled out a piece of paper and I had to read the words on it out loud in order to make it out the door, your husband isn't dying. This is not about you. Your mother needs you go to her apartment. Now it was my own little serenity prayer. God grant me the wisdom to know the difference between my fear and her reality. When I heard a woman at the Kaplan house say to her husband who was dying of colon cancer or something like we had a really good run until the last few months, didn't we baby? I had to turn away to go look at a lamp in the corner.

8 (35m 42s):
But I think death makes narcissists of us all at one point or another. Even the pros I was walking with a nurse named Kim. She worked in critical care for two plus decades before changing over to hospice, we had just left one woman's room and we're heading down the hall. When Kim said shaking her head,

18 (36m 1s):
It was 51 52

8 (36m 6s):
Kim and everyone else. So these are the cases. It can be hardest to defend against the ones where you can't not picture yourself. When you look at them. She had another, just last week,

18 (36m 18s):
There was one woman I had my age and she had two boys that were my age and their son's age and my son's ages. And the boys were very attentive. They stayed with her and you know, just laid beside her. And it was just really hit me on the way home. You know, I think, oh my gosh, this could be me.

19 (36m 40s):
Get towards the same age as me. I remember

8 (36m 44s):
This is Juliet. One of the CNA certified nursing assistants. She's studying to be a nurse. And she remembered the first time she had a patient, her own age,

19 (36m 53s):
The time it had just turned 39. And I'm like, oh my God, I actually, I say to all my God, that's my age or my goal. That's me. That's me. That's me.

8 (37m 4s):
Sometimes they see patients, their children's ages. This is Jackie, another nurse.

19 (37m 9s):
We had a nine-year-old boy that was here. And my daughter, Sarah was nine years old at the time. And I remember climbing in her bed when I went home and I just like fell asleep in her bed. And she was so mad at me. 'cause I'm like breathing on or to deal with her covers. And she was so mad. And I remember just waking up and thinking that was the funniest thing in the world that she was mad, but I needed to do that. That when I came home that night, I needed to know my nine-year-old. Okay.

8 (37m 47s):
Jackie also told me while I was following her around, throwing out questions

19 (37m 52s):
Last year, I'd like kidney because I had a big tumor. So, oh my God, all I could think of was, oh shit, I'm going to end up at work. But you know, if I'm to be anywhere, that's where I wanted to be. And when one of our docs, Dr. Warren came to see me in the hospital, I thought this is it. I'm dying. The hospice doc just walked in the door

8 (38m 15s):
And it does happen. A nurse named Rosemary. Who's been there for a long time, told me about one of the other long time nurses. Kathleen.

20 (38m 22s):
I went out on medical leave effort. Bunyan's fixed and was diagnosed with ovarian cancer. And, you know, just had a very rough go of it. Nothing worked every treatment she had reactions to. And finally it was time for Kathleen to come to the Kaplan house. And she was determined that she was not going to come in on a stretcher like the other patients because she was a nurse. So she walked down the hall and greeted everybody on her way down. But it was really hard for us to take care of one of our own. Cause I think we think, well, we hospice nurses, so we don't get sick. You know? And the first night she came in and I had her as a patient and I came out to my mid cut and there was a, a note, dear Rosemary, could I please have a milligram of Dilaudid for eight out of 10 pain?

20 (39m 14s):
I know you're going to think I should have two milligrams, but I only want one milligram. No hurry, take care of the patients first and one facecloth and one towel when you get a chance and that was just Kathleen

8 (39m 34s):
Death and illness, who's here. And who's not how we live with this hanging over us. These are the conversations I've been waiting years to have. Before I left, I got to ask Patty what it's like to talk with her patients. So directly the way that I was never able to do with EISA

9 (39m 52s):
Patients all the time ask, ask you, is this it? Am I dying? And the first thing I usually do is say, well, you might know better than me. Do you think you're dying? And usually if it's a dying person, they say yes. And I'll say, you know, are you, are you nervous? Are you anxious? What are you afraid of? And you know, if they say I'm afraid I'm going to have pain, you know, we'll just talk about it and say, well, I've got this, this and this to give you if you have pain.

9 (40m 34s):
So if you feel a little bit of pain, I want you to tell me and we'll head off a little problem rather than a big problem. And they'll say, well, I'm afraid. I'll feel like I won't be able to breathe. Then we talk about that about, you know, the medications I'll give them. And all they have to do is tell me they're short of breath and they get the medicine. They're afraid there'll be alone. And I'll say, well, let's talk to your family about that. Or I'll be here. I'll be checking on you.

8 (41m 5s):
I asked Patty, if anyone at the end of that list says, well, I'm just afraid of dying. I fear death. She said, yes. And she listens. If they want to talk about it offers to bring in the chaplain or the social worker. What else is there? That might be the biggest thing that she and the other nurses know that we don't, they know the limits of what they can do.

0 (41m 42s):
He's one of the producers of our show Coming up since federal government can no longer count on cartoon characters to bring in our tax dollars. As they once did what is left for them lancers in a minute from Chicago public radio. When our program continues support for this American life comes from LinkedIn. Let's talk about what is professional today on LinkedIn important conversations are happening around what it means to be professional. Right now, LinkedIn members are talking about things like needing more flexibility around where we work, how we work and even taking time away from work to focus on family or mental health.

0 (42m 22s):
Professional is ours to define post your truth. Show the world, the authentic professional, you and join the conversations. Redefining professional on LinkedIn.

21 (42m 32s):
My name's Alex Rainer and I leave one of the product teams at the New York times. I'm here to tell you about something. I think you're going to like since you're listening to a podcast right now, it's called New York times audio. And it's an app designed to help you understand the most important and interesting stories of the day. All curated by our editors. It's not ready yet. So we're running an invite only beta. If you want to be one of the first to try New York times audio and help us make it great. Fill out a brief survey@nytimes.com slash audio that's N Y times.com/audio,

0 (43m 4s):
This American life, Myra glass, each weekend, a program, of course we choose theme today's program with just weeks to go until April 15th or I guess this year it's April 18th, death in taxes. Stories about the inevitable stories, where people who know about these things share their inside knowledge with us in act wine. We heard all about death. We have now arrived at act two, which is about taxes. Today's show is a rerun, by the way. I think most of us think about taxes as inevitable does like death. But in fact, while we all die, we do not all pay our taxes. In recent years, the IRS has only collected 85% or so of the money that we all well, a trillion dollars in taxes went on paid each year.

0 (43m 50s):
What's amazing is how many of us actually do pay their entire countries where it seems like people are cheating here in the United States. We pay up most of us because of, I think some combination of a, we don't think we have a choice, though. If you would bother to look into it, you would learn that the IRS does not actually have that many people checking up on us and B we think it's the right thing to do. David Kestenbaum has this story about how we got here at about one former IRS agent. He was trying even in retirement to help uncle Sam in this quest, the first year, the government tried to collect an income tax from broad swath of Americans was during world war two. And really it was unclear how well it was going to work.

0 (44m 31s):
One poll showed that one third to one half of people. Weren't sure what they were supposed to do. And the government faced this choice. There were basically two options. The government could play tough. Say, this is the law you have to pay. It could scare people, or it could try to inspire people to pay their taxes. We went with inspire. We chose a spokesperson who could sell the income tax, someone with credibility, someone who is instantly recognizable and easy to understand. We went with Donald duck. This is a short film by Disney from 1942 commissioned by the government in it. Donald duck is marching around his house. Patriotically, listening to the radio and talking back to it.

22 (45m 13s):
Your country needs you.

0 (45m 17s):
Donald duck runs and gets a gun and a sword and an accent. Boxing gloves.

22 (45m 21s):
Are you a patriotic American, are you good to do your part? Then there's something important you can do. You won't get a medal for doing it. It may mean a sacrifice on your part, but it will be a vital help to your country in this. Shall I tell you what it is? Your income tax? Yes. Your income tax <inaudible>.

0 (46m 1s):
They walk them through filing this whole tax return.

22 (46m 4s):
You made less than $3,000 last year. Well then you can use the new simplified form,

0 (46m 10s):
Donald duck rights and occupation, actor income, $2,501. He lists his dependence, three Huey, Dewey and Louie.

22 (46m 20s):
Wow.

0 (46m 23s):
They have him look up how much he owes in the tax tables.

22 (46m 28s):
Wow.

0 (46m 29s):
This film was nominated for an academy award and remarkably this approach worked millions of Americans became responsible income taxpayers for the first time. Of course, when you're fighting the Nazis and you've got Donald duck making the pitch, it's an easy sell during the war. Almost 90% of Americans polled said their taxes were fair after the war that plunged to around 60% these days, some of us aren't so convinced of our duty, a recent survey by the IRS showed something like one in 10 people felt it was okay to cheat a little here and there, or as much as possible on their taxes. This is the tax paying world that Al Drucker discovered when he started working for the IRS in 1981, he just graduated from John Jay college of criminal justice.

0 (47m 14s):
And he was hoping to land a job at the FBI or maybe the DEA chasing drug traffickers. But the way things worked is you just took this general aptitude test and waited to see who called. And the Kali got was from the IRS.

23 (47m 27s):
Was it my peak choice? No. If I was in that recruiting forum and there were 20 booths and one was da and one was IRA. I'd probably go to the IRS last,

0 (47m 37s):
Al didn't really even know the IRS hired law enforcement people, but he took the job. They trained him to shoot a gun. They taught him special driving pursuit skills and they gave him an impressive looking badge that said special agent number 4, 1, 5, 8 with the seal of the us treasury on it. And he got to work. One of Al's first cases came from a tip. It was a tip about a guy who ran a pharmacy in New Jersey. Someone had told the IRS, Hey, you should check this guy out. I'm pretty sure he's cheating on his taxes. So Al with a colleague went to the pharmacy

23 (48m 7s):
And it was an old fashioned type pharmacy, a regular prescription bearing pharmacy that would sell newspapers and gum and any of the stationary and cards, you know, greeting cards and things of this nature.

0 (48m 19s):
Even in retirement, Al still speaks like a cop things of this nature, the suspect, the informant. Anyway, Alan, his partner walk into the pharmacy and the pharmacist is there and they get the strangest reception.

23 (48m 32s):
Believe it or not. He looked at my partner and myself and he looked at us and he said, you guys are with the IRS. Aren't you as if he was expecting a visit,

0 (48m 44s):
Which of course he might've been someone after all had ratted them out. That was why I was looking into this guy. And it was probably someone the pharmacist knew pretty well.

23 (48m 52s):
It may be an employee sometimes how to play a brag about, you know, when they have fired, you know, turning the boss in, et cetera, et cetera,

0 (48m 59s):
The insider tip. It was a powerful thing. I looked into the pharmacist's bank records and pretty quickly found something fishy. The guy didn't seem to be depositing any cash. All the money came from checks and credit cards. And clearly people had been buying gum and newspapers and greeting cards with cash, where all the cash going.

23 (49m 17s):
We were able to establish that there was another secret bank account where the cash was going.

0 (49m 23s):
Where was the secret bank account?

23 (49m 26s):
Just a different bank than he typically used.

0 (49m 28s):
It wasn't like it wasn't

23 (49m 29s):
No it wasn't off shore. It wasn't no, it

0 (49m 32s):
Was around the corner.

23 (49m 33s):
It was a neighboring town and it was a different, you know, banks. And he typically would use,

0 (49m 37s):
Was it in his real name?

23 (49m 38s):
It was in his real name.

0 (49m 41s):
It's just amazing how simple it is. Basically his secret bank account was the bank account, his name one town over. And when he got paid in cash at the pharmacy, he just deposited it there and never declared it.

23 (49m 51s):
There's no question. I think a lot of times it's not nearly as complex as you might think.

0 (50m 2s):
A lot of cases are like that. He says the fraud is right there. Once you start looking, but you need a reason to start looking in this case, it was the tip that gave him that reason. Tip of course is a nice word for it. Ratting out is another, but this notion that good ideas could come from people telling on each other. It stuck with Al. So a couple of years ago, when he retired from the IRS, he set up a business built around this idea that people could help the government do its job, collecting taxes by volunteering information and here for once, he did not give it a cop speak name,

23 (50m 35s):
Tax squeal.com.

0 (50m 38s):
It's not subtle. He went straight to squeal.

23 (50m 40s):
Those are the two words that best connote what I was trying to say, which is taxes and squealing. It could have been tax, right? And we experimented plenty with the tax rat. Believe me,

0 (50m 49s):
I suppose, tax rat, you could have had a rat in the site, tech school. You could have a pig.

23 (50m 53s):
If I could be honest, the name was taken.

0 (50m 56s):
The IRS does have a way you can rat or squeal and other people, but like all things, IRS, it's a pain.

24 (51m 3s):
Welcome to the internal revenue service tax fraud, referral hotline.

0 (51m 7s):
There's a hotline. But if you call you get this,

24 (51m 10s):
You can report tax fraud and abuse by completing form 39 49 a or by sending us a letter,

0 (51m 17s):
Of course, there's a form. You have to print it out, fill it out and actually put it in an envelope and mail it to the IRS. In Fresno tax squeal.com Al says removes the hassle and provides an extra layer of anonymity. You just go to the website type in some answers, basically who you squealing on, where does the person live? What did they do? And that's it Al we'll file the form for you for free. Al works out of the back of a store. His wife runs in a New Jersey strip mall. The store is a little hard to describe one side. Literally one side of it is devoted to sports memorabilia, jerseys, photos, baseball cards.

0 (51m 57s):
The other side is window treatments.

23 (52m 1s):
You do a blind that goes up a blind that goes down and certainly a blind that

0 (52m 5s):
Making this, I think the only store in America where you can buy baseball cards and window shades and squeal on your neighbor. Our works at a desk and back with his old badge now preserved in the Lucite block and some squeals he's printed out. When enough of them pile up, he mails them to the IRS. Al says the IRS, despite what you might think, it's not all powerful. When he worked there, the IRS had only around 3000 field agents doing criminal investigations. They are massively outmatched. So the IRS faces this fundamental problem. How do you find the cheaters? Al's answer rat them out. It may sound unpleasant, but it turns out this is one of the oldest tricks we've got during the civil war.

0 (52m 47s):
We had an income tax on the rich for awhile and the government made it so that you could see exactly how much everyone was paying. The idea was that neighbors could rat out the guy next door. If he lived on a bigger state and didn't seem to be paying much squealing was the original form of tax enforcement. The IRS today has a whistleblower program where they reward people for turning in big fish. Last year, the program paid out $53 million in awards. First smaller squeals. You can print out that form, fill it out, mail it in or there's tax squeal.com.

23 (53m 21s):
Once this goes, let's see what's coming recently

0 (53m 26s):
Outreach through some of the stuff he's gotten through his website. There's someone squealing on highlight gamblers in Florida as a retired sheriff, ratting out a hair salon. There's one angry one in all caps and a woman saying her ex husband is claiming the kids as dependents when she's supposed to be. Actually Al says there are a lot of exes ex wives, ex friends. Ex-employees

23 (53m 47s):
Dr. So-and-so had a dental office installed in the farm in Ohio and would routinely routinely work on Amish and Mennonite patients on the weekends and off days. And those patients pay fully in cash. He would then not include those transactions as part of the regular business income. He would also trade and barter for services and not share those with the staff who was paid on commission

0 (54m 9s):
Al doesn't check the validity of these allegations. Isn't looking at them at all. He just prints them out and mails them in. But, but if you want to pay just $2, Al does offer one extra service for two bucks. Owl mail, a little postcard to the person you've squealed on postcard is yellow with big black letters that read you've been squealed on exclamation point on the back as a legal disclaimer saying tax squeal is not a government entity and explaining the tax squeal mission. You chose one to me and producer haunted. Joffey Walt.

23 (54m 40s):
We have these nifty little postcards that say you've been squealed on and this'll get mailed out.

6 (54m 45s):
It's like a little extra screw you.

23 (54m 50s):
Yes, it is. But it gives people another opportunity to get this information forward.

6 (54m 56s):
And that's our way to really scare somebody. Who's not paying their taxes

23 (55m 1s):
If they haven't. That's exactly right. If you have, then it's not an issue

6 (55m 5s):
That would scare me. Even if I had paid my Texas.

23 (55m 11s):
Maybe you don't maybe I know.

6 (55m 12s):
I don't think so. You don't think people, anybody who gets that is freaked out by it, even if they're completely compliant.

23 (55m 18s):
Yeah. I guess you would be frightened. I guess he would be frightened. I don't look at it that way, but yeah, the average person would probably be frightened.

0 (55m 26s):
So what do you think about that?

23 (55m 28s):
I think that if you've done what you should do, you don't worry about it. If you haven't. Well, you have the possibility of cleaning up your act before somebody comes knocking on your door.

0 (55m 41s):
Honestly, I was conflicted about all of this. It felt kind of wrong, but I can't say why. Maybe it said, if you turn someone in, you worry that bad things are going to happen to them. One time I was in this little corner, grocery store and I saw this woman shoplifting and I went back and forth about whether I should say something in the end I did, but my heart was pounding. And as I left, I heard the store on her confronting her. And I just felt awful squealing. It doesn't feel like something to be proud of. And Al even out, he's got complicated feelings about it. How do you, how do you feel about squealing?

23 (56m 17s):
Well, if you feel strongly enough about a certain situation, I think you should report it. It's as simple as that, my own personal belief would I do it? No.

0 (56m 28s):
You wouldn't use your own website.

23 (56m 29s):
I would be a, no, I wouldn't go in. I just wouldn't do it because I don't think I just wouldn't do it.

0 (56m 37s):
Why?

23 (56m 38s):
It's just not my nature to do those kinds of things.

0 (56m 40s):
Cause it feels wrong to you to turn them in.

23 (56m 43s):
No, it's just not something I would do. It's not wrong or right.

0 (56m 47s):
No, it's gotta be right. It's gotta be right to turn them in. They're doing something wrong.

23 (56m 52s):
It just, it really, it really depends. It depends on the situation. I would have to be directly affected before I would do something like that. I wouldn't do it. I just want to approach the person before I did this. The anonymous feature makes it very suspect

0 (57m 10s):
That you're allowing people to do this thing that you yourself wouldn't do.

23 (57m 12s):
I'm giving the ability to do it. It doesn't mean I, I choose to do it right.

0 (57m 18s):
Al's tax squeal business is not going as well as he'd hoped the tax attorneys he thought would pay to advertise on the website. They didn't really materialize. And that $2 you've been squealed on postcard service. Most people don't do it. Most people it turns out are like Al they don't want a squeal. Sure. There are lots of vindictive ex-employees and ex spouses out there eager to squeal. Just maybe not enough to support a business. Al says the postage alone is killing him. David Kestenbaum in the ears is reverse round. That story tax will continue to operate as a business, but never really made money out.

0 (58m 0s):
Drucker says just three months ago in December, he called it a day and took down the website. What Bergen was produced today by Hannah Jaffe walked with Alex Bloomberg, Ben Calhoun, Sean Cole, Stephanie foo, Sarah Kanick Miki meet Jonathan minibar.

0 (58m 41s):
Brian Reed, Robin sent me and Alyssa ship and Nancy Updike or senior producer for today's show is Julie Snyder research help from Michelle Harris and Julie beer music helped today from Damien grave. Additional production on today's rerun from my comment. Hey Catherine, Raymondo Michelle Navarro, Stowe Nelson and Matt Tierney. Special. Thanks today to doctors Jane d'alema, Thomas, Charles <inaudible> and Lisa Sanders. Thanks. I was head of Bo Burnham and thanks, especially to the staff at the Kaplan house and care dimensions. The patients with family members who spoke with us, thanks to the Churchill school in New York and Lucile Packard children's hospital Palo Alto, where we interviewed kids about puberty, our website, this American life.org, where you can listen to our archive of over 750 shows for absolutely free.

0 (59m 23s):
There's tons of other stuff on there too. Again, this American life.org, this American life is took a bit of public radio stations by PRX, the public radio exchange. Thanks as always what programs co-founder Mr. <inaudible>. You know, he just joined a new health club and they have a sauna and he can not shut up about how great it's going to be. When I joined,

4 (59m 43s):
I want to smell more bad. You're going to sweat more like a lot more like getting really smelled wearing like a mousse

0 (59m 49s):
I'm Mara glass back next week with more stories of this American life Next week on the podcast with this American life in the movies.

0 (1h 0m 37s):
It's so simple. The superhero swoops in saves the day grateful citizens applied in real life though. It's a little more complicated.

9 (1h 0m 47s):
Why would somebody do this? Why

26 (1h 0m 49s):
There's gotta be a catch,

9 (1h 0m 52s):
Right? Yeah. I didn't truly believe it was happening even in the moment that it was happening

0 (1h 0m 57s):
Everyday Avengers and their motivations next week on the podcast or on your local public radio station.