Squarespace (0s):
Support for this American Life comes from Squarespace. Squarespace is the all-in-one platform for building your brand and growing your business online. Get started with a best-in-class website template and customize it to fit your needs. Browse the category of your business to find a perfect starting place. Sell your products on an online store. Whether you sell physical or digital products, Squarespace has the tools you need to start selling online. Head to squarespace.com/american for free trial. And when you're ready to launch, use offer code American to save 10% off your first purchase of a website or domain.

1 (33s):
A quick warning, there are curse words that are un beeped in today's episode of the show. If you prefer a beeped version, you can find that at our website, this american life.org.

2 (44s):
In New York, like in lots of cities, you can call three 11 for help with city services, but also for all kinds of other stuff. The most common calls they get are about landlords, not heating apartments properly, but they'll also, you know, help you get hold of a W2 form. You need from 2009, tell you what streets will be blocked off for a presidential visit, connect you with the gas company and a stunning array of other things. 55,000 calls a day.

3 (1m 7s):
Actually, I had a call today.

2 (1m 8s):
This is three 11 operator Victoria Dini.

3 (1m 11s):
The woman said that her fiance died in in their bed and she was pregnant and she wanted to identify his DNA in order to get social security benefits. So she wanted to know who to contact.

2 (1m 26s):
She got a referral to family court, which can establish paternity to the Social Security office to find out how to get the benefits and a legal referral to the New York City Bar Association. Here's 3 0 1 operator, Angelique Pantoja.

4 (1m 38s):
Well, a woman was cleaning her garage and she moved a box and there was a crocodile. So I had to ask her like, like a crocodile from like big with the, she's like, yeah, it's going snap, snap at me. And

2 (1m 51s):
She says, that was an easy one, of course called animal care and control. But she also helped with this call.

4 (1m 57s):
I had a woman who was, I guess she had an unruly teenager, and she, they even on the phone, they were arguing and she just, she couldn't take it. She couldn't take the disrespect and she wanted help.

2 (2m 10s):
That woman was given a referral for counseling services. The way all this works is that the operators sit at computers with a massive database of answers, thousands of different topics. They can help you locate where your car was towed. They can explain the changes in your property tax. They can help you find something You left in a New York City taxi, which by the way, they can do even without the cab number. Now the taxis have gps, but lots of people call for things that are not in the database. You see, a UFO three 11 has no answers for you, not in the database. You drop your keys in the sewer grade at the corner. New York City is not gonna help you with that one either. A people call with all kinds of stuff. I know a guy, he and his wife were in a taxi cab riding home great at night from Halloween party.

2 (2m 52s):
He was dressed as a teletubby. She was a sexy creature from the deep sea fishnet stocking, short skirt, fake seaweed. They got to their apartments late at night. His wife told him, get out. She would continue in the cab. She wanted to spend the night elsewhere. So he got out of the cab and not sure exactly what to do. He dialed three 11, operator picks up, he says, I don't know where my wife is. The operator asked, is she missing? He could be connected to the police. No, another guy says, and at that point he realizes, right, she's been staying out a lot, right?

2 (3m 32s):
She's having an affair. He didn't know exactly what it was that he wanted to get from three 11. It's just he found himself suddenly, not sure what had happened to him or how he got there. He had never been in this situation. It wasn't clear what to do.

5 (3m 46s):
We get those types of calls because we are known for a place that gives answers. So I guess, you know, why not try three 11?

2 (3m 55s):
Three 11 operator, Natasha Townsend.

5 (3m 57s):
I've had a caller. She called to speak about her boyfriend. She felt like her boyfriend was going to leave her because he was a model, and she just felt like he had a, a lot of attention from other women. So I would try to offer her different services, you know, like maybe like some counseling for, you know, for their relationship. And she didn't want it. She just wanted to speak to a three, one rep. She's like, no, I don't wanna speak to anyone else. I just wanna speak to three 11. And there's nothing in our database that we use to say, okay, well if he's doing this, you know, this is what you should do.

2 (4m 34s):
Natasha found herself off the grid, so she improvised. She's not allowed to give personal advice, which she told the woman. So she basically said the only thing she could say in this situation that they did not train her for, I understand. She said, I understand. Over and over. The woman kept her on the phone for 45 minutes and it seemed to help.

5 (4m 55s):
I think she felt better after she got off the phone.

2 (4m 57s):
How do you know?

5 (4m 58s):
She said, thank you. She said, thank you for listening to me. That's really what it was. She just, she really just wanted to talk.

2 (5m 11s):
Welcome from WBEZ Chicago. Is this American life? I'm Eric Glass. Today on our program, what happens when you find yourself off the map, far from all the normal things you're used to and that you do, and things are way, way more extreme than they were for this three 11 operator. You are lost in some situation you've never been in, and you've never heard of anybody else in either. And you have to improvise, which either brings out a resourceful hiero, excited people, or just the opposite. Stay with us. Take one. Marriage of inconvenience.

2 (5m 52s):
So this first story is about a couple who are in a relationship that is unlike the homes that either of them grew up in, unlike any relationship either of them has had in the past. And if you carry down to it, unlike most relationships, they're married and it's a prison marriage. It's the guy who was the prisoner, was a prisoner when they met. And as they try to make this sort of uncharted life together, one of the things they think it's interesting about the story is that they make for themselves a kind of map of what they want it to be that they both agree on. Christopher Rhoads tells the story,

7 (6m 25s):
Prison marriages aren't so unusual. They happen. Michael Jewel was serving out a life sentence for murder in Texas. Joan Caci was a widow living in Dallas, who volunteered with the A C L U. They never thought that Michael would get out, and they were okay with that. But sometimes they'd talk about what it would be like if he were released to spend time together at her summer cabin in New Hampshire, go fishing together, be married for real. And five years into their relationship. When Michael decided to appeal this case, in the very unlikely event that he'd win, Joan wanted to be prepared. So she drew up a contract.

8 (7m 4s):
We made kind of a pack that we, and I still have that document, that we would try it for two years. We would whatever he got out, we would try it for two years. And if we weren't happy after two years that we would separate.

7 (7m 21s):
Joan keeps the contract in her desk at home.

8 (7m 26s):
We, the Undersign, agree to the following arrangements, following

7 (7m 29s):
The contract explicitly lays out all the very practical things that usually go unspoken in a relationship. Joan agrees that she'll provide Michael with a place to live and money for food and clothes. Michael agrees to take care of Joan to be her companion. The contract is like a couple's fantasy of the most ordinary details of everyday life Together. He gets amazingly specific. Here are some of Michael's duties.

8 (7m 52s):
House chores, 50% participation in cooking, cleaning, trash, takeout, bed making, and minor household repairs, outside chores, yard and garden maintenance, dog walking, shopping, driving, and car and air travel assistance. Here. Follow some specific obligations for Joan. House chores. 50% participation in cooking, cleaning, bed making and laundry, providing

7 (8m 20s):
Without prison. It's unlikely that Michael and Joan would've ever met in the first place. She's 16 years older than he is from a completely different world. Michael never knew much more than crime. When he was about seven, his father had him steal a pair of shoes. Things went downhill from there. Michael Rob, grocery stores cracked saves. He was in and out of prison. Then in 1970, he killed a man during a robbery.

9 (8m 43s):
We spooked him. You know, we scared the hell out of him. And the wind was howling. And I was standing in front of him trying to tell him, this is a robbery, cooperate, and you won't get hurt. And he said, oh, oh. And made a motion like Matt Dillon going for the draw. And my partner thought he was going for a pistol and shot him in a bang. And when I heard the shot just reflexively, I shot him in the chest. And when he hit the ground, I kneeled down and and searched him. And he, he didn't even have a weapon. He, what he was trying to do was give us the bank sack.

7 (9m 26s):
Michael was caught and convicted, which in Texas means he wound up on death row. He was 23 Jones. Life in her early twenties was about as far from rural Texas as you can get in this country. She lived in Cambridge, Massachusetts, was married to a PhD student in English literature at Harvard named Pascal KCI Jr. Pascal's father was the editor and lifelong friend of John Steinbeck, which meant that sometimes John got to go to intimate parties in New York City full of literary heavyweights.

8 (9m 60s):
Saul was often there. Saul Bellow and Arthur.

7 (10m 5s):
Arthur Miller.

8 (10m 6s):
Arthur Miller. When Arthur married Marilyn, of course then, you know, everybody wanted to go to the dinner party.

7 (10m 17s):
Marilyn, of course was Marilyn Monroe.

8 (10m 20s):
She was quiet, didn't talk a whole lot, but she was so gorgeous. You know, we all just sat there and looked at her and were happy that she was there. The men did most of the talking. And I was also a quiet at those parties too. I didn't feel as comfortable. They, they were often talking about things that were not familiar to me about their work and politics. So I had a the baby by then, and that was taking up most of my attention.

7 (10m 55s):
Jones marriage to Pasco was pretty standard for the time. He was a breadwinner. She was the homemaker. Joan raised two kids, eventually became a school teacher. And then many years later, when Joan was 66, Pasco died of cancer. After his death, she got more involved with volunteer work she'd been doing at the local A C L U chapter. She answered prison mail and started corresponding with several inmates to find out about conditions in the Texas prison system, which is how she first met Michael. He was 52, nearly 30 years into his prison sentence. And he sent a letter that found its way to Joan

9 (11m 31s):
Says, dear friends, I am a prisoner on the east hand unit of the Texas prison system. I came to prison with the death penalty in 1970. I stayed on

7 (11m 41s):
Death. There was nothing special about Michael's letter. He was asking about getting involved with anti-death penalty work. His own death sentence had been communed to life in 1973. And he becomes something of an activist in prison, heavily involved in prison reform issues. Joan read his letter and dutifully wrote back then Michael wrote, back then Joan wrote and so on. Michael and Joan wrote to each other almost every single day. For 10 years. Michael was self-taught, but his letter showed how much he'd read, including most of John Steinbeck. And his intellect impressed Joan. She was constantly communicating with prisoners five to 10 at a time. But Michael's letter stood out.

7 (12m 22s):
He was a good writer. Take this letter. He wrote to Joan after he intentionally injured himself, cut his own Achilles tendon to protest work duty conditions.

9 (12m 31s):
I had grown to love my body without narcissism, almost as a friend, a faithful companion. It was after all my only refuge from the filth and the stench and the scorn. As I sit there contemplating the harsh task at hand, I felt like a traitor as though I were committing the highest treason. It was most difficult to see a higher,

8 (13m 1s):
He looked to me he was, he looked like James Cagney. He just was a perfect James Cagney, except that he didn't have very good teeth. He had just a few teeth on the bottom. So I saw him and he was James Cagney. And I used to love James Cagney in his movies. But again, it was not it. It wasn't love at first sight or anything like that cuz I'm not that sort of person. I go for the mind first. And, and he had a wonderful mind and we just had lots to talk about.

7 (13m 40s):
It wasn't all intellectual. In his letters, Michael started using pet names for Joan. He'd call our sweet baby Joan and other things too,

9 (13m 49s):
Dear Noble, little squall, sweet baby, dearest finger licking. Good sweet baby. Dear honey butt

7 (14m 1s):
In her letters. John listened up as

8 (14m 4s):
Well. I think I'll fix the, A big scotch and go sit in the backyard and smoke a cigarette and try to get you into perspective. God, I wish you were here to spank. Can I stop there?

7 (14m 24s):
Every Sunday afternoon, Joan would drive the few hours to visit Michael in prison, A book on tape, playing on the car stereo. She'd stay at the same fancy bed and breakfast near the prison, became friends with the people who ran the place. And then the rest of the week she got to go back to her own life and did what she wanted to do. It was romance. But on her terms, something she'd never experienced. Michael and Joan would hug and kiss discreetly on their contact visits. This was all in a public visiting room. There was nothing contral about what was going on. The limits of their time together were clear. And Joan was happy with the arrangement.

8 (15m 1s):
I kind of liked being alone. It's very comfortable for a woman to know that somebody loves her and yet she has all this freedom to live her own life.

7 (15m 15s):
Michael and Joan knew that no matter how close they became, they'd never really be together. Rarely, if ever, does a former death row inmate get paroled in Texas. So really what they had was their letters in 2005, they got married, but that was mainly so that they wouldn't lose their visitation rights. The prison had denied them visits before and they lived this way happily for five years. Then in June, 2010, Michael was summoned by prison authorities. He walked into a room and an official came to speak to him.

9 (15m 48s):
And he said, are you jewel? I said, yeah. He said, here I, I got a present for you. And he handed me a sheet of paper and I started reading it and I had made parole.

7 (15m 60s):
Michael was confused just a month or so before he'd gone before the parole board and been denied just as he had been many times before.

9 (16m 8s):
I think I stopped breathing for about two or three minutes. I, I didn't really, I was kind of, my first re reaction was, this has got to be a fucking mistake. You know, it was unheard of. You know, it's something like that happens once every 10 years in prison to somebody.

7 (16m 26s):
Michael has no real idea why he was paroled. He thinks it might have had something to do with a lawsuit he filed against the prison system saying that it was understaffed and unsafe releasing. Michael made the lawsuit go away.

8 (16m 40s):
I think it was a surprise to both of us when he suddenly was put on the street. You know, he was scared at the thought of coming out. He wasn't prepared for it. Neither one of us was really, you know, I wanted him home and I knew it was gonna be hard. I knew it was going to be difficult and I knew that the chances of the relationship lasting were very bad. But, you know, I had agreed to try it. And so

10 (17m 16s):
Do you think that you would have gotten into the relationship as you did into the degree that you did if you knew that he was actually gonna get out one day?

8 (17m 30s):
I can't answer that. I really don't know

7 (17m 33s):
Now with Michael about to be released, the contract we talked about at the beginning of this story, the one that laid out all the shared household and relationship duties. Should Michael, a convicted murderer ever get paroled? That contract was about to be put into effect. The contract stipulated a two year trial period for their marriage. If it turned into a real marriage, fine. If it didn't, they would go their separate ways. Joan could fire Michael or he could quit. Those are their words at any time. Nobody keeps statistics on how long prison marriages last on the outside. But lots of prison people will tell you. Most end before a year is up on August 21st, 2010, after 40 years in prison and 10 years with Joan, Michael was a free man.

7 (18m 19s):
Joan was waiting for him in a parked car at the prison. Gates wearing an earring Michael had made for her. Joan was so nervous and excited that she hadn't slept the night before. She had a whole romantic vision for the day. She'd made a reservation at a five star hotel. Michael walked out wearing his prison issue, jumpsuit, nervous and overwhelmed to be out.

8 (18m 41s):
And he didn't kiss me or anything. He just got into the car and said, let's go. So it was a very romantic meaning and that was kind of hurt me.

9 (18m 54s):
You know, I was elated, but I was kind of bewildered. You know, I don't think you can describe it.

8 (19m 2s):
I thought he would be as warm to see me as he was in the visiting rooms where he would hug me and you know, try to steal an extra kiss or something. No, no. He was very business-like. It wasn't what they show in the movies at all,

7 (19m 20s):
As comprehensive as the contract was. It didn't cover everything. It didn't occur to them to include anything about sex. A quick warning to anyone listening with kids. This next bit of the stories about that Michael had never had sex with someone he loved. And 40 years in prison left him pretty messed up on that subject.

8 (19m 38s):
I did not expect him to be so afraid to cuddle. You know, if we have our clothes on and we, he hugs me all day long. But, but getting naked with somebody makes him very uncomfortable.

9 (19m 56s):
Especially the last few years she had taken on more and more of a mother figure to me. You know? And when I actually, when we got in a hotel room together, then I started pacing the floor, identifying with EDUs Rex, if you know what I mean.

7 (20m 21s):
I think what he means is their relationship had shifted over the years and she was now 79. Remember 16 years older than Michael. Once they were in a hotel room, they realized that the nature of their feelings toward each other were really complicated. Over the years, they'd known each other. Jonah had gone from initially feeling like she wanted to adopt Michael to wanting to sleep with him, to now that he was out a kind of mishmash of all those feelings.

8 (20m 47s):
He's still in a adopted child and he's still my best companion and I love him and he's my best friend. So it's all together and I'm comfortable with it.

7 (21m 11s):
So Michael moved into Joan Suburban ranch house in Dallas and got to know her family and friends. There were lots of academics, all sorts of people and settings he'd never encountered before. She was surprised how well he did socially. But they had their rocky moments. Joan took Michael to a wine tasting party and he got fall down drunk. Joan had to haul him outside to avoid making a scene. This happened two or three times. He never really drank socially before. Usually just to get hammered. And at parties with Joan, he'd go too far partly to calm his nerves. One of Joan's friends, someone who'd been close to Jones's first husband. Pasco, was appalled by her choice of a second husband and ended their friendship.

7 (21m 59s):
It's now been four years since Michael got out. They've made it way past the trial period in their contract. Michael still leaves the stove on and the front door open. Things he never had to think about when he was in prison. He leaves his stuff lying around everywhere. Jones says, it's like having a teenager in the house again. But they've learned to deal with all this. Their lives are intertwined now.

8 (22m 22s):
Somehow. There's an equality of people in this marriage that I didn't have before. I was too dependent upon my husband and his reputation. But you know, with Michael, it's just, it's, you know, I figure I've become free in some strange way. The neighbors have to accept us the way we are now. You know, they got a criminal in their neighborhood and I love to have him out there with all of his tats all over him. You know,

7 (23m 3s):
Now that Joan is in her early eighties, she started to wonder what's going to happen to Michael once she's gone. That wasn't in the contract. Joan figures, maybe they've got another seven years together.

8 (23m 14s):
We'll have to find you another old lady to take you in.

9 (23m 20s):
Prospects are gonna be few and far between.

8 (23m 23s):
I'll find another kindergarten teacher who will really shape you up.

9 (23m 28s):
Well. We often say that we should die together, you know? Oh well. So maybe we'll drive into a freight train or get hit by an 18 wheeler.

8 (23m 42s):
Well, what about a plane crash? Don't you like that idea? No.

7 (23m 45s):
Oh no. Not that. No. I'd rather drowned.

11 (23m 48s):
Oh, let

6 (23m 49s):
See.

7 (23m 57s):
Until that day, whether they go out together or not, they like to watch Downtown Abbey together. They go to plays. Recently they went to see a Tennessee Williams play at a community theater near their house. And these two people who have lived very different lives had the same reaction. They thought the place sucked. They left it intermission.

6 (24m 23s):
Christopher Rhodes,

2 (24m 24s):
Today's program is a rerun from a while back, 2014 and after that promising start, Joan and Michael have now divorced though they still live together. He's 75, she's 91. They share bank accounts. They file taxes together, living a kind of friendship whose terms they have defined themselves coming up. Brother, can you spare a line siblings on a road trip to Mexico that is unlike anything either of them imagined beforehand. Also, comedian TIG Notaro. That's in a minute. From Chicago Public Radio. When our program continues,

Mejuri (25m 1s):
Most people think about buying jewelry for occasions only. Missouri defined jewelry differently by celebrating every day, not just the big moments. Their pieces are designed for you to wear your way. Whatever your taste, mood, or budget, Missouri works with Master Jewelers to create pieces that feel like you using high quality, responsibly sourced materials. Missouri's precious metals and gemstones can go everywhere you go because they're made to last. Visit M E J U R i.com to shop Find Jewelry essentials. That's M ej u r i.com.

Indeed (25m 33s):
Support for this American Life comes from Indeed. Indeed is the hiring platform where you can attract, interview and hire all in one place. Don't spend hours on multiple job sites looking for candidates with the right skills when you can do it all with indeed. Find top talent fast. With indeed suite of powerful hiring tools like Indeed. Instant match assessments and virtual interviews, indeed knows hiring needs to be cost effective when you're running your own business. Visit indeed.com/american to start hiring now. Just go to indeed.com/american indeed.com/american terms and conditions Apply. Cost, application, pricing not available for everyone. Need to hire. You need indeed,

2 (26m 10s):
It's American Life America Glass. Each week on a program, of course we choose a theme. Bring you different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's program, wait. Do you have the map stories of people and situations they have no preparation for whatsoever, cuz most people have not been in those situations. In the second half of our program, both stories take place where you need a map that is on the road. Today's show, by the way, is a rerun. We've arrived at act two of our program, act two. Final rest stop. Tigta is a comedian who's been on our program before. Back in 2013, she went on a tour across the country that was filmed. It was a strange tour. She and this Canadian comic named John Dore went around the country performing in people's living rooms and their backyards and just lots of situations where they had to ad hoc their way through what they were doing.

2 (26m 56s):
One of our producers, Nancy Updyke, saw the film, which has many, many moments in it that fit today's theme. Here's Nancy.

13 (27m 4s):
Tig and John are like door to door comedy salesman in the film, invited salesman showing up at people's houses and knocking on their doors. But my favorite parts of the movie are just Tig and John in the car in between gigs. The road trip part of the movie, John's always driving, sometimes using special Canadian mind exercises to either stay alert or to annoy Tig.

14 (27m 28s):
I'm gonna name as many No, no, no, no. Montreal expos. No, no, no as I can. No, no, no. Andre's Galaga. Tim Wallack. Tim Rains,

13 (27m 38s):
They talk in the car, riff on each other's jokes. It's like watching dancers, staying limber between performances. Tig shows off her incredible impression of a clowns horn.

14 (27m 51s):
That's really good.

13 (27m 53s):
They both look like they're having a really good time. Then as John is wrapping up, his impression of Johnny Carson auditioning for Jodi Foster's role in Silence of the Lambs. Tig suddenly grimaces in pain.

14 (28m 5s):
Oh, what happened?

15 (28m 7s):
I just get stomach. Stomach.

14 (28m 8s):
Is this something I need to be worried about? Or is this just like your stomach a

15 (28m 11s):
No nothing to be worried about? Do you need to take a moment that continued for a while, then there would be trouble?

14 (28m 15s):
Do you need to take a moment? Nope.

15 (28m 17s):
I just have pains every now and then.

13 (28m 21s):
Tig had cancer two years ago. Famously, if you follow accommodate, it was breast cancer advanced. She had a double mastectomy. A few months before the cancer was diagnosed, TIG was in the hospital with a terrible, sometimes deadly infection called c diff. Over the course of the tour, driving around doing gigs, TIG and John log enough hours together that they get into all of that illness, fear of death. They joke about it, they're serious about it. They navigate it and at some point in the trip, John and Tig pull over at a roadside store that sells fireworks and tombstones.

13 (29m 1s):
Maybe two different people on a different road trip wouldn't have stopped or wouldn't have stayed if they stopped. But as friends who are also comics, they both head into the field of tombstones tombstone and start improvising. Neither of them. Knowing where this is gonna lead and whether it's gonna be funny or maybe a terrible idea. Yeah.

14 (29m 24s):
Yeah. Let's get you a headstone. Yeah,

15 (29m 25s):
Let's gimme a headstone.

13 (29m 27s):
Take explains to the owner of the store why she and John are looking for a headstone for her.

15 (29m 32s):
I've had some health issues lately. You know, I just wanna be smart. Think ahead. All right. Wow. So this one's $250. Yeah, I really like this. One

13 (29m 49s):
Take at this point is touching a modest flat slab on the

14 (29m 52s):
Ground. See now that's just the bottom. You could have that engraved, right? And just use that. Yeah,

13 (29m 57s):
That's the owner.

14 (29m 58s):
But you would want that. I would buy you this if you, I would love to buy your headstone.

13 (30m 4s):
John's pointing to an upright headstone. Tig seems momentarily thrown. Like are we still playing here

14 (30m 11s):
Are, I'm not joking. I'd love to do this for you. Okay. I'd buy your headstone if you buy the bass.

15 (30m 17s):
All right. Because I am more than happy to just have that.

14 (30m 21s):
You should have this, don't you think? Okay. What is that? Without this,

15 (30m 25s):
That is a base.

14 (30m 26s):
Yeah, but what are you gonna do with a base?

15 (30m 28s):
I'm gonna go under it.

14 (30m 31s):
You should have this.

13 (30m 32s):
Let me stop the tape that pause. That's John's moment to be stunned by the directness of, I'm gonna go under it. Then he recovers and keeps going.

14 (30m 42s):
You should have this. People are not gonna want to stand over it and read. They're gonna wanna look at it from a distance. Look it, if you get something like this, people can sit down in front of it and cry. So you're underneath me, right? And I'm just bawling my eyes out and I can read it here. I don't have to like kneel down and come all the way over there. Yeah, I can bring a long chair if you,

15 (30m 59s):
I guess this is hard on the back. Yeah, to do this,

14 (31m 3s):
I'd be in a lawn chair. I'd be there for

15 (31m 5s):
Hours. You'd spend some time.

14 (31m 8s):
You'd look beautiful under that.

15 (31m 11s):
I like it. I like it.

13 (31m 16s):
John buys the headstone. It's $425 cheap for a tombstone, expensive for a joke. Then they get back on the road. I watched the scene a bunch of times the way they pushed the joke forward but kept saying real things with real feelings. It was a game and the game was, keep it going. Don't stop. Let's see where this goes.

2 (31m 46s):
Nancy Updyke playing an excerpt from the film. Knock-Knock. It's Tig Naar. You can find all of t's upcoming tour dates, including Biloxi, Mississippi on April fourteenth@tignaar.com. Her podcast don't asks. TIG is available wherever you get your podcast

6 (32m 3s):
Car. In a small car, in a small car, in a car, in a small car, and a small car driving.

16 (32m 11s):
So they decided to go for a ride and they drove on the highway. They drove on the highway, passed the armadillos, liked the armadillos in Switzerland and they said it is so beautiful.

6 (32m 28s):
Car, car, small car, small car, small car driving.

2 (32m 34s):
Act three. Not all who wander or lost, but some definitely are. A car is a classic place to realize, oh right, I'm lost though sometimes you know, you realize that you're lost. You're like personally lost and then you get into the car and you drive as far as you can to solve that problem. James Spring is this story that's partly about that.

17 (32m 55s):
There's this guy that I've known forever. His name's Kevin. He's about 40 a father now with two kids. But back in the summer of 1989 when Kevin had just turned 16, his dad let him drive from San Diego to Central America with his older brother. And Kevin was super excited. It was the adventure of a lifetime. He'd saved up nearly a thousand dollars working after school at a yogurt shop. Kevin's brother, who was 21 at the time, knew parts of Mexico pretty well. After he dropped outta college, it seemed that he was down in Baja all the time. He was a hard charger, lived with a bunch of tattooed guys who looked like felons. He drove this kick ass red jeep with no doors. So a little wild. But he'd always looked out for Kevin since they were little kids.

17 (33m 37s):
Kevin wasn't worried.

18 (33m 38s):
Good guy. Travel with a watch out for me while learn some Spanish, drink beer and smoke cigarettes.

17 (33m 45s):
But there were other interesting facts about Kevin's brother too. Some of which would soon become concerns. That thing that the brother was doing in Baja, not legal. The tattooed guys who looked like felons were in fact felons. And actually Kevin's brother himself had recently been released from a short stint in county jail. The older brother had anger issues. He was a control freak. So the trip, I mean it sucked. It ended badly and it ended early. There was a blowout fight. Two drove down, one flew back.

18 (34m 17s):
I was happy to get on a plane and go home. I'd had enough of the driving, I'd had enough of my asshole brother and now it'd become a fight. And even though we had fought before, really this was the worst one.

17 (34m 31s):
There's one more important thing to know about Kevin and his brother. When they were kids, they'd been everything to each other, super close like war buddies because they grew up with a stepfather who was a real bastard, violent and they moved around a lot every year. A new school, no friends, really just each other. This trip that fight, it decimated their relationship. The two never really spoke about the trip again. Didn't speak much at all. It's been more than 20 years. I wanted to talk to Kevin about this and how he feels about it now since I already know how his brother feels about this, cuz I'm his brother.

17 (35m 14s):
Okay,

18 (35m 17s):
We're we're recording. You good? All right, I'm good. Is that me? I think so. Talk about the long trip.

17 (35m 25s):
When I first suggested that we talk, Kevin was ambivalent. I think he wondered why, like what good could come of it, which is fair cuz I have not been an easy guy to talk to. But I had some things I wanted to say and, and look in this story, I'm not gonna come off. Well, I was a real prick in the late eighties. I was the first person in my family to get into college. I dropped out after six months. Some friends let me crash with them. One night I threw a party that went off the rails and three shots rang out from a semi-automatic handgun. The idiot that fired the gun, that was me, my gun evicted. Then I started hanging with some truly bad people.

17 (36m 5s):
We were running ephedrine and coke from Baja into San Diego one night. There was a drug raid at our house. Everything got flushed down the toilets before the cops got through the door. But I still got arrested through all this though. I still somehow had this great girlfriend, just really sweet and wonderful. Then I slept with some other girl. You know what that got me? Gonorrhea is what it got me and no girlfriend. I ruined so much, so much. But I could run away from almost all of it and take penicillin for the rest. I was 21 years old, a colossal mess. And I just wanted to get in my Jeep and drive to Mexico and beyond.

17 (36m 45s):
See the temples of the Aztecs, the Mayan ruins. So I prepared to drive all the way to Central America for the summer. And I would take with me the one person who I was sure didn't think I was such a bad guy When I was done being that bad guy. Anyway, that shallow selfish me that people hated. I was ready to throw myself into something real on this trip. Something important, something smart. Before we left, I removed the backseat from the Jeep and replaced it with a welded lockbox with maybe two suitcases worth of storage space. Then I loaded it with a lot of books. I'd always been a reader, like a studier.

17 (37m 27s):
And my plan for the summer was, you know, sure hang out with my brother, but also to learn the language of the lock. Condon Mayans. And I was gonna learn to read the meso American hieroglyphs. I even made flashcards for myself. This trip would be an opportunity for me to figure out once and for all why the Mayan civilization disappeared. Yeah, archeologists had been on the job for more than a century and still nobody knew why all these cities were abandoned. But I was pretty sure that this summer I was gonna get it nailed down. All answers lay somewhere in those lost cities, deep in the jungle. And lucky Kevin, he was about to see every one of them.

18 (38m 7s):
Polanque, chia t, ot, USMA, Mela, temple, soul. I could name these things but I can't remember them. They all just blend together for me as rocks crumbling. And the idea of seeing the ruins wasn't, that was your idea. You know why you would be going to Mexico

17 (38m 29s):
At

18 (38m 30s):
16, just turned 16. I knew there was gonna be beer. I knew there was was gonna be ladies at the tourist spots and hopefully surf good warm water.

17 (38m 44s):
I have no recollection of surf being on the itinerary. I don't, I mean, I don't know. So off we went with our high hopes, such wildly different high hopes into Mexico To get us to the important places where I wanted to be. Most days I'd need to drive us for stretches of six or eight hours. A lot of times Kevin just wanted to stop like in a village and see stuff. But there could be no stopping. When we did pull into little towns, people were curious about the two gringos who showed up in their pueblo. They'd ask questions and I'd tell them to mind their own business. I wasn't some freak show oddity.

17 (39m 25s):
What I was, was a pretentious douchebag who could not be bothered to interact with the common man. Kevin though was like energized by being around other people. And the more the merrier. He loved it when we were in the beach towns full of American tourists and in the small villages he'd fumble through the few Spanish words that he knew and he'd start these inan conversations with everybody. It graded on me. I wasn't much better on the road. Driving on mountain highways was freaking unnerving, especially at night. And a lot of the time the map just did not seem to reflect the reality on the ground. My Spanish wasn't great, but the little phrases that I used to navigate around Baja weren't working for me here.

17 (40m 6s):
The dialects were different. I, I couldn't understand a lot of the responses and I didn't handle it well, which I couldn't hide from Kevin. He was sitting right next to me.

18 (40m 14s):
As we pull away from the people you so often I feel that, I remember that you'd be like, ah, that fucking idiot. Or God, what the fuck? I just asked a super question, you know, and just kind of this continually watching you. The navigator ask, I <unk> and and I'd just be like, God, he just asked that question two turns ago. I knew he didn't understand what the guy said so much in my head. I would just be like, he's calling that guy fucking idiot. But I didn't even understand what he said.

17 (40m 45s):
We drove south through Mazatlan and down to Port of Valarta. It was all green and jungley and full of tourists having fun. I knew that I was better than them. I wasn't here for the parasailing and the tequila poppers. I had a mission. This is from my journal entry about the ruins at Eastland del Rio. July 22nd, 3:01 PM This temple is the highest of the 15 plus structures found here. The floor of the temple structure is four feet off the ground and is reached by six narrow steep steps. There's a perimeter wall that runs the circumference saved for four entranceway, not equidistant. The wall reaches to 10 feet above the ground and has in its design symmetrical crosses as portholes all the way around 40 of them material of construction at this site.

17 (41m 42s):
The journal is 190 pages long and late into every night. I wrote down all of the important mezzo American anthropology stuff from the trip, which includes virtually no people, at least no living people. If you were forced to read this entire journal and then tried to deduce the importance of the Kevin character in my life, you might guess that he was maybe boy in taco stand or boy at beach number four. He just didn't figure into my narrative. And what other thing about this journal, and I'm not sure how to say this except to just say it along the way. I met some girls and if things went well with those girls, then they would earn a little note at the top of the journal page for the day, right above the groundbreaking archeological data.

17 (42m 28s):
And the note would say, for example, remember Blanca and I totally do remember Blanca. So there's that. For me, it was all ruins all the time. We drove to the ancient Toltech city of Tula and visited Aztec temples at Tenayuca and Sania and the ruins of Te Tiwa Con. And by visited I mean that we spent hours and hours at each site while I mapped and logged every important detail. While Kevin must have been doing something in general, he was a pretty good sport about it.

17 (43m 8s):
Clearly it wasn't his thing, but what was he gonna do? How are we doing at this point? How are we getting along at this point in your recollection?

18 (43m 18s):
Fine. I think there would be times where we talk and be like, let's just not talk or something pretty civilly getting through any frustrations? I wouldn't have gone yet and called you names I don't think.

17 (43m 31s):
Not yet. Every night ended the exact same way with me studying and compulsively writing notes in my journal late into the night with the light on while Kevin tried to sleep. He complained about it constantly as if turning out the lights was more important than what I was writing. I just kept writing. I felt like the answers that I needed could be parsed later from the details that I wrote and not, not like in a new agey way, I mean like in a real anthropological way. So I kept writing and I drew a ton too. These really intricate field sketches of Aztec and Mayan designs. And then I mapped out all these ancient cities.

17 (44m 11s):
There was no reason for this. All of the cities had already been mapped by actual archeologists. Also, I had a camera. I took hundreds of pictures. Kevin appears in three of them at this point. If you were gonna write a letter to your best friend or postcard to your best friend about your brother, what would it have said?

18 (44m 34s):
The postcard, I'm sure would say, having fun traveling through Mexico. But my brother's pretty much in a <unk> I, I'm getting, getting kind. I probably would've said, I'm getting kind of sick of him, but I'm sure we can get through this. Another the next fun place ahead.

17 (44m 53s):
One day Kevin met a girl about his age. She was Mexican. All I remember about her is that she spoke some English and she had a small head. Kevin introduced me and I was probably just my normal self. She told Kevin, your brother is really sang grown, which I learned later that night, means arrogant. And Kevin reveled in a great many retellings of that. He loved letting me know that everybody thought I was prick. And for some reason this particular jab from the small headed girl really hit me hard. Cause I normally had to work a little to make people dislike me. But I hadn't done that with her. She could tell that I was an arrogant jerk in my normal resting state. Sang became Kevin's new favorite word when we argued and it drove me crazy.

17 (45m 37s):
But even when Kevin was happy, he was driving me crazy. Now his whole cheerful surfer, stoked to be around people thing. It's funny though, cuz I remember as a little kid, I was the same way. In second grade, the teacher wrote a comment in my report card that said I was a bubbly student that night when our stepfather got home from the machine shop and read it and I got beat, he said he knew what the teacher meant. That I was a loudmouth. I changed. We spent a few days in Mexico City and worked our way south to Oaxaca on little two-lane roads and muddy trails. Kevin suggested that maybe we should skip some of the more remote ruins and head straight for the beach. And I told him no.

17 (46m 17s):
<unk> way. We crossed the Imus and over to the ruins in Campeche and Yucatan. And just when it seemed that Kevin was ready to mutt me, we were saved by our next stop on the map. Cancun

18 (46m 30s):
Drinking and nightlife and beautiful beaches and scuba and snorkeling and beautiful water.

17 (46m 36s):
Cancun was amazing in those days. Just this Caribbean paradise and lots of ruins. But it was okay. I was certain we could see and do it all. In fact, the days in Cancun might have been the best of the entire trip. We were both excited to get out to the islands.

18 (46m 51s):
There was that island just offshore called East Islam Mujeres, which sounded great to me cuz I knew Mujeres meant women. So we got on some sort of just, we didn't bring the car I, we just went out there ourselves. No car. A ferry out there I think. And then we got there pretty late, I want to say long day. We found kind of a real quiet bar and started drinking, putting down some drinks. And then it was time to go up to our hotel, which is a fairly meager hotel, nothing fancy and start turning in for the night.

18 (47m 32s):
And you've making notations in your journal. And it got to an argument in that hotel that night where I pretty much let my mouth fly. And I said all the things I felt, which included you think you're so cool. You think you're so much better than everyone around here. And I'm sure included in that was you're a fucking idiot. You're a fucking idiot. You're fucking not as cool as you think you are. And I went to the pimples on your face. I went to the chicks you had chosen. I went to how you treat everybody like shit.

18 (48m 15s):
And you still didn't get up out of that bed or stop writing in your book. And it was volcano erupting outta my mouth. Time. I would not stop. I would not stop. And I got you grinding your teeth and standing up and you said, I'm gonna fucking hit you if you say another word. I think it was that. And I of course just said, probably one of the slowest fuck use. And that's pretty much when I got a slug right to the lip.

18 (48m 56s):
I'd say, good fat lip fly backwards. Oh tout rack fell when I flew back and I stood up tall, but I didn't hit back. I just let that mouth go some more. That didn't hurt. Do it again. Do it again. Fuck you. Fucking doesn't hurt. Doesn't hurt.

17 (49m 28s):
Every horrid thing that he said in that room. I knew he was right. I agreed with him. So I punished him bad, threw him into a nightstand, shattered a lamp, upended a bed. There was blood. The door was blocked with a mattress. So he escaped out the window, ran down to the courtyard outside the hotel. Next door was a jungle gym. And the way I remember it, my recollection, you were yelling for me to get away from you. You were running around the jungle gym on the opposite side cuz you thought I was coming back for you more. And I was trying to say, no, no, no, you don't understand. I'm, I should not have done that. I, I, I'm sorry. Over and over.

17 (50m 8s):
I apologized to Kevin swore it would never happen again. But it was too late. Kevin was done.

18 (50m 15s):
I was 100% down to leave because I did have the control at that moment. That was the one thing I could control. I could could control saying, I want to leave. I just didn't want to be with on that trip anymore. I just didn't want to be with you anymore. It wasn't the environment we were in, it was you. I had told you when we got in a fight, and I know you remember this, I said, it's never gonna be the same between us. That's it. It's over. Never gonna respect you.

18 (50m 56s):
It's never gonna be the same again. You call me up, I won't even, you know, probably at that time I would say I wouldn't talk to you, but by the next day I remember your face and I knew your emotions. Well. You were sorry and you were sad that things weren't gonna be the same. You knew it. You said, I know they won't.

17 (51m 16s):
The next morning we got back on the ferry and then drove without a word to the Cancun Airport where we bought Kevin a one-way ticket to San Diego. I continued on alone to Belise in Guatemala and then turned back up to Mexico where I stayed for the next four years. My mailing address was lease, just general delivery. And I didn't have a phone. It wasn't on purpose. Almost nobody in the town had phones. But also I didn't want a phone. I cut myself off almost entirely from my family, not just during the years in Mexico, but even after I returned, Kevin had been the very last person left standing in my corner.

17 (51m 60s):
And this trip, at least in hindsight, had been like a bridge to fix things back home. The show that I wasn't such a bad guy. Instead, it only proved what I'd always feared. I was a bad guy. What I didn't know through all this time was that Kevin actually did get over this stuff quickly. Pretty much as soon as he got back to San Diego, he had said things would never be the same, but never means something different to a 16 year old kid. And I guess I'm not surprised Kevin's over it. He's not like one of those pricks who holds a grudge. I'm the one who couldn't let it go. Any of it was that trip in Mexico for me to hit him, to beat him the way that I did after the childhood.

17 (52m 43s):
We had, I felt ashamed. Kevin and I had never really sat down and talked about this, but I know I let him down. Not just in Mexico. Long before that, all through our childhood there were beatings, just this violence. Like every other day when I was nine, I saw my stepfather throw Kevin face first into the sharp corner of a wall. It opened up his forehead. So much blood. Kevin was four years old, even now, almost 40 years later, sitting in front of him. I can barely stand to tell him what happened when we took him to the emergency room right off the bat, stepfather's saying, ah, he tripped and fell.

17 (53m 24s):
You know, he's bleeding. Need to get that fixed. And they asked mom and she gave the company line. And then they asked me and I said, yeah, he tripped and fell. And you know, as the older brother, I had a responsibility. I mean, regardless of what was beaten out of me, I had this responsibility. You know, I mean, it, it, it hits me now when I look at your face. You've got that. I mean, that scar is that scar is a part of you that is a part that I wish I could forget.

18 (54m 2s):
I bet.

17 (54m 3s):
And, and we would go visit dad every other weekend and he would ask and I wouldn't say anything. You know, I just, I wouldn't do it. And then our dad didn't know what our stepfather was doing to us until one weekend when Kevin was nine. Kevin had been beaten badly and he must have said something to dad. I don't, I don't, I don't even, I wasn't there. I don't even know what you said.

18 (54m 28s):
Well, you were there, you were there, we were going to dad. And Kathy's on Cove Drive. D and Kathy wasn't there. He took a little bit different way. We were on a more scenic route from Lakeside, like the 67. Remember the sunset in the road? And I remember I had just told him that, oh yeah, I got beat for leaving the pain out. And then after getting beat and told to come back out in the living room, I spent about 40 seconds feeling sorry and trying to, to act normal that that 40 seconds passed and I didn't pick up the paint again.

18 (55m 9s):
And so I got beat again for not picking up the paint. And it just was,

17 (55m 14s):
Was this electric, the electrical cord?

18 (55m 18s):
I feel that time it was back of the knees to the middle of the back.

17 (55m 23s):
The only thing that it took to get us out of that bad situation was for somebody to speak up, for me to tell my dad, my real dad, the truth about our life at home. But I was too afraid to say anything. So I said nothing. And this fact more than most any other, makes me hate myself. Cuz I was the big brother. It was my responsibility to speak up to protect Kevin Instead. He's the one who stood up. He's the one who told our dad

18 (55m 53s):
And he called cps, he called the police. They took Polaroids in a room of my bare ass and back and, and we sat around a table and said, the police policeman asked us, I want you to name every time you've been beat. And that was the table there on Cove Drive, the dinner table. And we looked at each other like, oh, do you have a while? And for years after that conversation, for years, maybe decades, I thought of what I had forgot to tell that guy. Oh, I never mentioned that time. And I know right away that I hadn't mentioned that.

18 (56m 34s):
Just it would pop into my and go, oh, I didn't mention that

17 (56m 37s):
Telling Kevin that I was sorry about the fight in Mexico. That was one thing. Talking about the stuff that happened when we were little, what I didn't do, apologizing for not protecting him as a kid. That's what I really needed to say to him. For the past 20 years, I've lived like half an hour from Kevin. He invites me to stuff all the time. But I don't go and I'm not much of an inviter. I don't see him much or the rest of the family either. Our past has always held me back. I've got a lot of regret.

18 (57m 15s):
I'm kind of sad to hear that you have so much remorse over it. I don't blame you for it. And I don't blame you for being older and should have known better. That is something that happened a long time ago. And I don't want you to be tortured by your past. And I hope I haven't done anything to continue the torture. You know, you're loved.

17 (57m 43s):
I'm a different person now than I was at 21. Mostly it took a long time to get my karma straight. But I'm still not a guy who's gonna start a conversation with you on an elevator. And I'd rather you didn't either. Also, I waited a long time, but I'm married now. I have a daughter who's nine and a son who's seven. They have a very different life than the one Kevin and I had.

19 (58m 7s):
I'm gonna have this play.

17 (58m 10s):
A couple of weeks after we spoke, Kevin asked us to come to Thanksgiving at his house. I drove up with my wife and my kids in a vegetable dish. There were a lot of people, like 22 extended family people who see each other regularly, but don't see me much at all. Kevin likes having all this family around. It makes me a little anxious. My kids played with his kids. Nobody got punched in the face. It was nice, I think. I hope to see them at Christmas.

6 (58m 44s):
Excuse me,

2 (58m 54s):
James Spring in San Diego. In the year since we first broadcast this story, he and his brother spent more Christmases together. Other times too than James says. They kind of fizzled. James says he knows it's a tidier story if we leave that part out. But he's says old scars. Some of them don't really heal. Me and his brother don't see each other much these days.

2 (59m 40s):
Today by Nicki Meek. Our senior producer for this episode was Julie Snyder. Our technical director was Matt Tierney. Additional help on today's rerun from Valerie Kipnis, El Mustafa and Stone Nelson. Special thanks today to Ben Kaja. Morris wrote, bill Reddick, PE Clark Tahe, Tom We, Chalene Thompson and Stephanie Raphael. Our website, this american life.org. This American Live is delivered to public radio stations by prx, the Public Radio exchange. Thanks as always. To program's co-founder Mr. Troy Melilla. You know, he told me that the first time he ever went to a board meeting, you know, like a real board Meeting at WBE Z. He was totally disappointed. He thought there was gonna be milk and cookies and all the candy you could eat.

8 (1h 0m 17s):
He was very businesslike. It wasn't what they show in the movies at all.

2 (1h 0m 24s):
I'm our glass back next week, the more stories of this American life. Next week on the podcast of this American Live, when Donna decided to find a husband, she gained out how to find the right one. Took out an ad, asked men to send the credentials, tax returns.

20 (1h 1m 3s):
I don't believe that just falling blindly in love is the answer. Don't fall in love. This is what has caused all the problems in the world. Everybody falling in love.

2 (1h 1m 15s):
No one doesn't agree with that approach. The man she married had to fall in love. Next week on the podcast or on your local public radio station.