0 (0s):
Support for this American life comes from choice ology and original podcast from Charles Schwab, hosted by Katie milkman, a behavioral scientist, Wharton professor, and author of how to change choice. Ology is a show about the psychology and economics behind our decisions here. True stories from Nobel laureates, authors athletes, and more about why we do the things we do listen to choice ology at schwab.com/podcast or wherever you listen when miles and Katie's apartment was robbed. They knew this was not going to be a big case. And if you got right down to it, they did not have a problem with that. New York city cops arrived after the burglary,

1 (41s):
It would probably just come from some sort of situation where like someone had gotten stabbed in the neck. And now, now they were in these, you know, kind of yuppies apartment. And we're running down this laundry list of things that had been stolen. And the list is like, Oh, it's so embarrassing. It's like an iPad, an iPod, an X-Box they've got bigger problems. They got bigger fish to fry.

0 (1m 2s):
Berlin's video from the building showed that the culprits were three teenagers who took the elevator to the top four, probably jumped down onto a balcony and then walked into Katie's and miles' apartment through a sliding glass door. Then there's video of them leaving the bar

2 (1m 17s):
Three teenage guys with three of our backpacks stuffed.

0 (1m 21s):
Wow. So they're using your backpacks so they didn't even have any plans on how they're going to carry it.

1 (1m 26s):
I guess not, it didn't seem like a very well thought out caper. This was more of a let's break into this building and see if someone's dumb enough to leave their sliding glass door open,

0 (1m 34s):
Have other things they lost. The only thing that they actually cared about was their video camera. And they only cared about that because it had their wedding video on it. The only copy he filmed the wedding show her brother, but hadn't yet

2 (1m 45s):
My brother who I'm really close to can come to the wedding. And so it's really sentimental and I really wanted it back. And I was really upset. I was really, really sad about it.

0 (1m 55s):
So the morning after the burglary, knowing the police were not going to be much help on this one, Katie decides to jump into action herself. She goes into Craigslist to see if the thieves have put her camera up for sale there. And boom, she finds it immediately. Same camera in the same bag with all the accessories that she had specially bought for the camera had to be hers. And she calls the detectives on the case, tells them the good news.

2 (2m 17s):
Like I can get my camera and I can probably put these guys in jail. And he just immediately shoots me down and says, you know, there's no way of really knowing if that's your camera, we can't help you with anything. The only way we'd be able to help you is if you got the guy to give you a serial number off the camera, and if you happen to still have the serial number from the camera and they match. And I think he was just thinking like, no, that'll never happen.

0 (2m 47s):
Katie. However, saves all her warranties in a special folder. She does have the serial number and to confirm that it's the same as the advertised cameras, she calls the guy on Craigslist and she can Cox this, that she is a girl who needs to buy the camera for a school project. She puts on this supposedly tough sounding Brooklyn accent that I would describe as kind of the Brooklyn accent. You would hear performed by a kid actor on the Disney chat.

2 (3m 12s):
And that my, I had told them that my boyfriend was going to kick my ass. If I spent our last $300 buying a camera that broke the next day. And so do you have the warranty for the camera? And he said, no. He was like, Oh, I got this camera from my friends. So there was no warranty with it. And I was like, okay, well, do you know, like, is there a way to find out if it's still under warranty? And he said, well, I think you can find out if the camera's under warranty, if you go online. And I was like, okay, well, what do I need to do? And he was like, well, I think you need to have the serial number.

0 (3m 47s):
So you didn't actually just ask him for the serial number. You wanted him to suggest the serial number.

2 (3m 52s):
Yeah. Cause I thought if I asked him for the serial number, then he would know right away what I was trying to do. Wow. So I was trying to get him to say it.

0 (3m 60s):
She has some, can you read me the serial number? And he says, he doesn't have the camera with him. I'll have to call her back. And she figures, Oh, that's it. Jig is up. He knows she's lying. He will never call back. As miles points out. This story that she has made up, it really makes no sense at all. Like if the boyfriend is going to get so mad at her, wouldn't it be for the fact that she spent their last $300 and spent it on a camera. And after for the fact that the camera didn't come with a warranty, like who cares about warranties that much, but to both of their surprise, the guy calls back gives her the serial number. Of course it matches Kate calls the detective to let them know.

2 (4m 38s):
He says, Oh really well, what should we do? And I was like, you tell me what we should do. You're the detector.

0 (4m 49s):
And he says, of course, we'll, you know, do a sting, call the guy and arranged to buy the camera from him. Set. A location will be there too. We'll swoop in we'll NAB him. 15 minutes later, the police arrive to take Katie and miles to the sting. Katie runs downstairs to meet the detective on the street.

2 (5m 5s):
He tells me that there's been a change of plans. He doesn't need my husband to come anymore. He only needs me. I'm not going to meet the burglar face to face anymore because it's not safe. And so he's got a different plan of how we're going to do this.

0 (5m 21s):
At that point, miles arrives downstairs.

2 (5m 23s):
I turn around to him and I just say, change the plans. They don't need us both anymore. They just need me. It's not safe for you to go. I'll call you when it's over. And he's like stunned because that's an alarm.

0 (5m 46s):
Miles Watchers are getting to the car and drive off inside the car. Katie says the detectives tell her the new plan. She's going to stay in the car and talk to the guy on the cell phone. Keep him talking as the cops go and grab him though. They are very skeptical

2 (5m 59s):
Basically saying like the chance of this working out is so small. Like this is never going to happen. Don't get your panties in a bunch.

0 (6m 8s):
And the Craigslist guy agreed to meet at a CVS drug store, perhaps go inside. None on the cell phone. Katie asked him, okay, what are you wearing? So she can recognize him. She tells him, okay, I'm in the makeup aisle.

2 (6m 18s):
I'm like, Oh, I'm by the cover girl makeup. He starts walking down the aisle, I guess. And he, he says, I still don't see you. And at that point I hear hands up. You're under arrest and the same detectives who are brushing me off the entire ride out there then are walking over to the car with the video camera in hand, high fiving, each other. And I hear them say like, that was some real police work, great detective work.

0 (6m 45s):
The police could be more surprised to be making this arrest and to be fair, as miles points out, it's crazy that it worked. There's so many different stages where the criminal should have bailed out. You know, like the fact that she comes up with a story about, I need the warranty, he calls her back. He makes the effort to call her back and said, didn't you need a serial number for the warranty. It's like, what? Like, I can't believe that he's playing along with it. Honestly. Like you don't get that level of service from real stores.

2 (7m 17s):
See, but that's a whole thing you said.

0 (7m 18s):
He said, she's an amateur sleuth, but he's also an amateur criminal. And this is the moment where they meet up. Right? So there'd be no way the detective would ever spend the amount of time that it would take to concoct this ruse to go after this camera. So the only way that it could ever be solved would be, if two amateurs met up with him, WBZ Chicago is this American life. I'm IRA glass today on our program, amateurs, the fact that they are not professionals, that they do not play by the book, that they have time on their hands to try whatever makes it possible for them to accomplish things. The pros simply never will. We have three stories, including amateurs, stepping into one of those powerful jobs in the world.

0 (8m 1s):
And one of the most commonplace stayed with us Glenn theater of war. Sometimes a big professional outfit that is great at one thing, takes on a task at which it has no experience at all. And really no special aptitude for nanny way. It is a rank amateur jacket. As this example,

3 (8m 32s):
Back when the first president Bush was in office Saddam Hussein invaded Kuwait. And for the first time since Vietnam really America returned to the battlefield. Derek Brown felt called. And so he wound up at Fort Bragg, North Carolina, one of the largest military bases in the world back then about 40,000 soldiers. Most famously the 82nd airborne and other ready units that can be deployed in 18 hours. Fort Bragg is America's waiting room for war. When Derek first arrived, he was trained as a paratrooper. You know,

4 (9m 3s):
You'd wake up at five in the morning. Then you would deploy out to the field. You'd do a jump from 800 feet. I was an artillery man. So they'd throw the tanks out of the planes. Then they'd throw us out of the plants. So you'd do these mock war exercises where people would try and attack you and kill you. And you'd be out in the cold and you'd be digging more Fox holes. And just seeing how, how ground down you could possibly be so that when the time comes reward, your body and mind have been pushed as far as possible.

3 (9m 36s):
Every once in awhile, there'd be something else. A volunteer duty.

4 (9m 39s):
I remember the captain of our unit. He said he had this strange detail, which was, we had to mandatorily send one soldier from our battery to be a part of this musical. And it would last several weeks. You wouldn't have to do any field duty, but you would have to sing and dance. And everyone thought he was joking. And I raised my hand and he said, great report to the theater today.

5 (10m 17s):
Were you the only person who volunteered for that?

4 (10m 19s):
I was the only person who volunteered and they had me sit in this room and this director first had everyone audition. And he asked me if I knew of any songs that I could sing in from any musicals. And I said, not at all. I had never sang or danced in my life, except while running and singing cadences and Jody calls in the military. And he said, well, just sing me something. And I remember singing even flow by Pearl jam. Can you give me

5 (10m 51s):
Is even even flu. But I think I was

4 (11m 0s):
This in person

5 (11m 4s):
And

4 (11m 5s):
Somehow they thought it was good enough. It turns out that no one was turned off.

3 (11m 17s):
Derek quickly got a sense that something different was going on here. This was not just your average musical review. What, what kind of dancing are you doing?

4 (11m 26s):
It's marched dancing. I don't know if you've seen it, but it is the director's idea to combine the honor and discipline of military movements with the bravado and panache of Broadway movements.

3 (11m 49s):
I think Derek we're members most more than 20 years later was not song and dance numbers. It was the stuff in between. They were short films projected on a screen above the performers, and they were the opposite of lighthearted entertainment, grim testimonials about soldiers who died, not in combat, but drunk driving and another accidents near the base, all done in a dark bluntness. One rarely sees outside driver's ed movies

4 (12m 16s):
Go from show tune to a video on the screen of a fellow soldier that they interviewed talking about how one of their fellow soldiers, their friend died, you know, and then, Oh, surprise. We would sing a show tune. And it was this progression of dance, sad video sing a bit sad video. And then some guys come rappelling out of the ceiling for the closing number at the end of the hour, for the final chance to cheer everyone up. So they leave feeling inspired. It was insane. You would have discussions backstage, which is what the, what are we doing?

4 (12m 59s):
Why are we doing this? How did this, how did this thing even come to be

3 (13m 6s):
Excellent questions? How did one of the most straight laced, no nonsense institutions in the entire country, the U S army ended up producing this piece of Dadaab musical theater. I wanted answers. So I went straight up the chain of command.

6 (13m 22s):
Yes, I'm general Carl Steiner, us army retired. And I was a commander later, second airborne division during 1987, 1988,

3 (13m 32s):
General Steiner was at Fort Bragg. And he confirmed that. Yes, for a while in the seventies, eighties and early nineties, there was this annual show which the entire base was required to attend. So there were three or four performances a day for a week or so during the Christmas season, which is when accidental deaths,

6 (13m 49s):
We realized that we were having more casualties from off duty activities, mainly motorcycles than from thousands of parachute jumps and heavy equipment drops. You know, we just needed to do something about, it

3 (14m 8s):
Told me that some years, for every death of a soldier, during training exercises, there were almost 10 killed getting drunk and driving crazy wartime deaths. We all know about an afterward PTSD, but this was a whole other kind of statistic, pre combat deaths, which come when tens of thousands of teenagers, anxiously awaiting war, get pumped up, jumping out of planes and firing heavy artillery. How could some beer and say a motorcycle possibly affect them. Originally the base had ordered mandatory safety lectures, but the soldiers just slept through them. So the United States defense department, the greatest fighting force ever to March on the planet decided they would show tunes.

3 (14m 54s):
And that's the origin of what came to be called the soldier safety show. I interviewed a dozen veterans from this era and they all remember the weird mashup of gut-wrenching testimonials and cheery. I high leg kicks. They all said you had to see it to believe it. And I wanted to believe it. When I called Steiner, he told me that he had a videotape of one of the shows.

6 (15m 18s):
You know, I had a VCR of it, but age caused the thing to just self destruct. You couldn't even tell what it was, the pictures and so on. And so we struck out,

3 (15m 32s):
I won't bore you with the details, but finding a videotape literally took months. The public school library had a set of soldier safety shows, but not long before I called, they went full on digital and junked, all their old school, audio visual stuff, a freedom of information requests came up completely dry. Finally, I happened upon Goodrich Blackman, still working at Bragg, who called back to say she had an old box at home and in a tape, the label read 1989. Soldier safety show life is worth. Living

6 (16m 5s):
Is rude. A lot

3 (16m 11s):
Early on. We see a folk guitarist seated on stage, plucking out a sad melody,

6 (16m 19s):
Just be gone

3 (16m 21s):
Above him on a screen is a general. It's actually general Steiner himself entering a cemetery. And he starts talking about accidental deaths on base.

6 (16m 31s):
When a soldier is killed, I feel terrible. I get a sickening feeling, a feeling of failure. We lost 26 this year and it's terrible. Charles Adam, James. Okay.

3 (16m 50s):
General Steiner, occasionally kneels down. And at one point removes his Baret and talks directly to a tombstone.

6 (16m 56s):
We tried with you Tasha and we failed. Perhaps we could have done a little better. If your friends had been more forthcoming to us with your problems, you were a great soldier and we all loved you. How many new graves next year? What do I have to do to stop these unnecessary and needless deaths?

3 (17m 30s):
The lights come up on a stage pack with 30 or 40 men and women in fancy dress doing some tap. Dance moves with lots of spirit fingers in jazz hands. It's attributed to everyone who fought in world war II And these absurd smash ships just keep happening for the rest of the show. Just like all the soldiers. Tell me. So who came up with this idea who was the mastermind of operation shock and awe? His name was Lee opp and his journey to theater was not one. Anyone might predict

7 (18m 3s):
He had, he had no personal taste. He ate overdone meat and he wore polyester suits. I mean, he didn't care what he wore.

3 (18m 18s):
That's both Thorpe, a local North Carolina actress who was frequently cast in these shows. Yup. Died back in 2006. I talked to other actors too, and they all reacted like Reese Brown, a paratrooper from the nineties.

8 (18m 35s):
See everyone laughs. When I ask about that, because it's, it's funny because I haven't thought about him in years, but just to think about just some of the things that he said, every word he used, every enunciation, he used every colorful description you used was filled with 10 words that didn't need to be there. He didn't say I'm going to the store. I'm I'm traversing down to, you know, it was one of those things, but he had no room at all for shyness one stage. He made it a point of saying that if you were going to fail, please fail loudly. Please fail loudly. And seeing it as though your life depended on it, it's odd because I'd never met anyone like him.

8 (19m 21s):
Prior to that,

9 (19m 21s):
This point, I was like, where did this guy come from?

7 (19m 25s):
He was a high school football coach. That's both, again, this was in Trenton, New Jersey and the director of the class plate died suddenly. And Lee inherited the class play. And it also happened that he had just broken his leg. So he really couldn't go out on the football field. So that's how he got into the theater.

9 (19m 51s):
And so he took his a personality football coach approach to life into the theater.

3 (19m 59s):
This is Steve Curry, who long worked as yap stage manager.

9 (20m 3s):
And within a very short period of time turned this little high school theater program into a major competitive organization that won the national theater award for high schools across the nation. And, and they went on a tour of Germany and Japan with this production he put together and it just was like, he was bit and he couldn't get enough of it.

3 (20m 28s):
Lee op wound up as the chief director of the bucks County Playhouse outside Trenton, New Jersey, which is one of the farm teams for lots of Broadway shows. Yup. Gave bucks County has all spending lavishly, even putting his own money into the shows.

9 (20m 42s):
Lee had just taken a second mortgage on his house in New Jersey to use as an investment in a show called a smile, smile, smile. The reviews came out. It was a smile, smile, smile. It was supposed to be funny. It wasn't, it wasn't it wasn't period. So one of the shortest theater reviews in the history of musical theater,

3 (21m 6s):
Corey told me that yacht bankrupted the bucks County Playhouse and himself, his personal finances. So wrecked. He couldn't get a phone in his own name, but then fate stepped in when yacht bumped into an old army buddy at an airport who was looking for someone who could direct theater at Fort Bragg,

7 (21m 24s):
Thrilled to death with, with this man who brought theatricality to the army, the last place in the world that you would think

3 (21m 35s):
The one financial backer, right.

7 (21m 37s):
That right. That could afford him. Exactly. The defense department. That's exactly right.

3 (21m 44s):
Steve Curry, the stage manager told me that with that money, they built waterfalls and a set for a rollerskating number. Another time they planted the entire stage in real grass for a park scene with cops on horseback,

9 (21m 57s):
Or we had people rappelling from rafters. We had people in parachute rigging flying in over the stage cannons and machine guns and muskets and horses rearing up to the cannon, fire Thompson, submachine, guns, fire.

3 (22m 10s):
And these are all going off inside of a theater.

9 (22m 13s):
Yeah. We would also trigger explosions that we'd set into the stage floor. And I would hook up these like flash pots. I got a, I got the guy from special forces and he would get me all these, what they go squibs and which are these electronic fuses. And we would create these great explosions. You could never do it today. If our Marshall had shut you down, but we were the army. Well, what was impressive about it is how I realized that there was no end to yap. He had a special and unique way of making the simple, more complicated than you could ever imagine it.

3 (22m 50s):
Let me just take a moment to say how rare this is. I wrote a book about amateurs a few years ago, those dreamers in their garages fiddling, creating, struggling. What keeps most of them stuck in the garage is lack of funders. Leon had hundreds of millions of funders, the taxpayers of the United States. Everybody I talked to, especially the cast and crew that we're in. So many of these shows, the regulars all mentioned this one time, one moment that stood out for them. It was 1982. There'd been a terrible car accident. This time involving one of the cast members, kids here's actress Bowthorpe

7 (23m 34s):
My son was nearly killed. I mean, he was coming home from his first football game. He was 14 years old and it was October the eighth and the young girl who's driving her father's car decided to see how fast her daddy's car would come down. Sky drive, which is where we live. He remembers her saying 80. And when she went to put on the brakes, the car went into a skid and then hit a tree. And so he was in a body cast for six months.

3 (24m 9s):
She says, everyone in the show is heartbroken. Of course, including yap, but yap being yap saw an opportunity.

7 (24m 16s):
I said, you know what? We can do you think, w why would you let us go up to the hospital? And I'll bring a film crew and we'll go up to the hospital and we'll film clay, and then he can, and then he can make testimony on the, on the tape. And I said, Lee, I don't, I don't know that that's the right thing to do. Oh yeah, absolutely. They'll the soldiers all love it. They'll they'll, they'll they'll understand. It it'll mean a lot to them. I, you know, I, I was really reluctant about it. I thought, cause I thought that, you know, it was just not very tasteful.

3 (24m 50s):
A few weeks later there was bow on stage.

10 (24m 54s):
My 14 year old son was in a very serious car accident. It happens like that. You know, there's no warning, it just comes. Boom. Like that. We went up to Clay's hospital room when he was very sick and he agreed to make this film, Oh, you'll pay attention.

3 (25m 16s):
Then on the big screen, play Thorpe, 14 years old, lying in a hospital bed, flat on his back in a full body cast and clay jumps right in looking into the camera as best he can reliving the accident, calling out the miles per hour as if you were once again, flying down that Hill

10 (25m 34s):
10, 20, 30, 40, 50. I told her to slow down 60, 70. Oh my God, this is a dream. This can't be happening here. I am in this place. I'm not normal. Now. I wish I could get out. I wish I could get out tomorrow. The sun will come out tomorrow. That's your bottom dollar. That tomorrow there'll be some.

3 (26m 15s):
And then beneath the video screen, a young girl comes out on stage

7 (26m 33s):
And do you think this had, I mean, how, how

3 (26m 35s):
Effective was this with the soldiers?

7 (26m 39s):
Amazing, absolutely amazing. Because these are 18 year old boys. And when you're 18 years old and you're a Butch kind of male, your life is, is going to go on forever. And you're just, you're, you're a special, you're going to last forever and you can do whatever you want to do. And, and if you die. So what, and Lee had a way of understanding that he would do everything he could to prove to them or to show them the value of life and how short it is and how quickly it goes by

3 (27m 21s):
You know what? This is, it's the lecture I gave my teenage daughter a few nights ago. When I handed her the car keys drive carefully, buckle up, please don't be an idiot. Every parent tries to come up with some way to say this to their kid. Lee had to crack that code for 40,000 of them. And you know what it worked after the soldier safety show started the average number of deaths at the base dropped by a third At the end of every show, one of the ops actors always came out on the stage to give the final safety lecture.

7 (27m 59s):
We need your help. And we ask that each and every one of you join with us to make this pledge to always hallways. Where are your safety belts?

3 (28m 10s):
The speaker asks everyone who believes in safety to stand and take the pledge. These are soldiers and they follow orders. So naturally up jumps everyone in the audience. And then the cast floods the stage for the final number and yaps last brilliant contribution to musical theater, a guaranteed standing ovation at the end of every show

0 (28m 51s):
Jack had. He's the author of several books, including the one that he mentioned in this story. It's got a bunch of amateurs. He's also the co-host along with ginger Ikam Nika or the Peabody award-winning podcast, uncivil coming up, babies, having babies, robot babies specifically that's in a minute from Chicago public radio. When our program continues support for this American life comes from Squarespace. If you have a story to tell whether it's about starting a business or sharing photos, Squarespace gives you an all-in-one platform to bring these stories to life with modern templates and 24 hour support, you can easily create a professional website or online store, head to squarespace.com/american for a free trial.

0 (29m 36s):
When you're ready to launch use code American for 10% off your first purchase of a website or support for this American life comes from suite. If you're a business owner, you probably don't need them to tell you that running a business is tough. Don't let QuickBooks and spreadsheets slow you down anymore. Now is the time to upgrade to NetSuite by Oracle, the world's number one cloud ERP NetSuite gives you visibility and control over your financials, HR inventory e-commerce and more join the over 24,000 companies using NetSuite. Schedule your free product to her now at netsuite.com/ <inaudible> that's netsuite.com/tal

12 (30m 19s):
This

0 (30m 19s):
American life from IRA glass seats. We're going to hug them. Of course, we choose a theme and bring you different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's show amateur hour stories of how amateurs can accomplish things that the pros cannot. That is when they are not crashing and burning completely today's program was first broadcast. A few years ago, we've arrived at, at two of our program. Act two. What to expect when you're expecting a robot, there's this thing that a lot of kids have to do in health class. Maybe you did this when you were in high school. The idea is to give students a taste of what it is like to be responsible for an infant and, and kind of what a pain in the acid is actually. And they did this by making the kids carry around an egg, or sometimes it's like a sack of flour for a couple of days. Supposedly this jolt of reality helps prevent teen pregnancies, which you know is a lot to ask of an egg.

0 (31m 5s):
So before the pandemic, some schools switched over from eggs to robotic babies. These are plastic dolls with electronics inside, which make them cry randomly all day and night. They're sleeping, eating and pooping patterns are based on walks, kept by real parents about real babies. The babies cost over $600. Each Hillary Frank went out back then when school was still in person everywhere to find out if I'm at your Parenthood is more intense and more realistic with these high-tech crybabies.

12 (31m 38s):
The first time I saw a robotic baby was at my local pharmacy. It's one of those old timey places with a candy counter and surgical supplies and a large selection of scented candles. One day I was in the store and I heard this teenage girl behind me say, my God, this baby is so heavy. She had a car seat slung over her shoulder, like a purse for a second. I thought the plastic baby inside, it was real. The real ones are heavier. I told her she groaned and with the car seat over to her other shoulder at the time I had a three-year-old and I was dying to know if this girl's experience with the plastic baby was anything remotely. Like my experience with my flesh and blood baby, the girl told me she went to Glen Ridge high.

12 (32m 21s):
Glen Ridge is the town next to mine in New Jersey. So I called the school and asked if they'd let me hang out. The next time the girls got the babies on. Don't forget to support her nap when you pick her up out of the car seat. Okay? Ms. Hogan, the health teacher setting up two girls with their babies. The robot babies are so expensive that the school only has 10 of them. So the students take turns with them for two solid days of pretend parenting in the class. I visited the students on deck where Rachel

13 (32m 53s):
Let's kick it. I'm excited. Baby's here and page.

10 (32m 57s):
I don't know how I am so nervous about this baby, but it will be good.

12 (33m 2s):
My producer, Joanna and I followed them with their babies over the next 48 hours. Rachel and Paige are friends, but there are about as different as two 17 year olds can be. We'll start with Paige. Paige is brimming with maternal affection for her fake baby. She pulls a flowered onesy out of her book bag shows it to Joanna.

10 (33m 21s):
I brought clothes for her. Wait, are these your baby clothes? I think some of them are on my mom saved them. And then I use them for when I used to play baby,

12 (33m 31s):
Just to note here about page's voice. I've never heard anyone talk like her before she's not whispering or anything. This is just the way she sounds. You're

13 (33m 40s):
Really like going for the fall immersion.

10 (33m 43s):
I am. Cause I, I was so excited to get a baby. So I know it will be so much fun. It will be hard, but it'll be fun

12 (33m 53s):
To be clear. There was no need to bring baby clothes. The doll comes with its own outfit. Page. Is it about Christian? She wears a purity ring

10 (34m 2s):
And I made a promise that I will not ever give myself away before I married. Cause I think it's one of the worst mistakes somebody could do.

12 (34m 12s):
So that's page now here's Rachel.

10 (34m 15s):
I don't think that losing your virginity is giving yourself away. I think

12 (34m 19s):
Rachel is the quintessential theater kid. She describes herself as liberal and bisexual. She's never had sex with anyone, but she keeps a good luck condom in her drawer, just in case

13 (34m 30s):
Just it's just in my room. I know it's there. Like I went on a trip somewhere once, like by myself and I just brought it, even though I knew it wouldn't use it, but it's just like for good luck.

12 (34m 39s):
Rachel thinks she wants to wait until her thirties to have kids. She did not bring in baby clothes today for her robot, baby. She thinks this whole baby thing will just make for a fun story. Like the time she joined the boys wrestling team and wound up puking in the locker room.

13 (34m 54s):
I haven't been more excited about the backstory than anything else. Like I need to find who's the father and he figured it out. Was it less on my doorstep?

12 (35m 2s):
The girls take their babies. Each is in a car seat. Each looks like a real baby except plastic. The huge speaker on its chest, a vacant stare. Their lips are always pursed for feeding. And somehow they always look a little pissed off Paige and Rachel had to class their first big challenge. Do you know how much blood you're giving today is the blood drive at Glen Ridge high? Rachel is laid out flat on a table with a tourniquet around her arm. Her baby is on the floor behind her head. The car seat, the lab tech says you're not allowed to give her the baby. She can't give Rachel the baby.

10 (35m 46s):
I don't like this. I want to take care of my baby. I don't like this out.

12 (35m 50s):
If those cries sound disturbingly real it's because they're recordings of actual babies crying.

10 (35m 58s):
Oh the baby really wasn't.

12 (36m 0s):
And if Rachel could get to her baby, here is how she would get it to stop crying. And it has to be her. It can't be someone else she's being graded on this. So she's wearing a wristband that she swipes over the baby that identifies her as the mother. Next she'd have to figure out why the baby is crying. It could need one of four things, burping, rocking, diapering or feeding to feed it. You hold a fake bottle by the baby's lips. And if she's hungry, she goes like this. When she's full, she goes like this. You have only two minutes to get it right?

12 (36m 41s):
If you don't, you lose points. If you don't support the baby's neck, more points off. So all the time Rachel's on the blood donor table, she's losing points. The lab tech holds Rachel's arm, pushes the needle into her vein

10 (36m 55s):
Out, out, out. It really hurts. Now it hurts more now. Okay.

12 (37m 1s):
And then like any stressed out drama geek,

10 (37m 7s):
Rachel burst into song. Are you singing

12 (37m 15s):
Because of the pain or because you don't want to hear the baby crying?

10 (37m 18s):
It's a little bit of both. Mostly because of the pain. I'm sorry, baby.

12 (37m 22s):
Meanwhile, pages, baby seems to need attention constantly. She'll feed it or rocket and it'll stop crying, but then start up again, four minutes later than five minutes after that, then another seven minutes after that,

10 (37m 36s):
I think I've kind of learned already. It's only an hour, hour and a half into it. I've definitely learned. It's kind of like a normal baby, but not cause it, I think a normal baby is not this meeting.

12 (37m 55s):
Of course a human baby is way more needy, but you know, amateurs, Joanna and I follow page and Rachel, through the rest of their classes, the babies will through lectures through debates in one class, there are four babies going off. It's this the most baby full class I've gone to so far, which makes it feel more like a nursery than a school while taking a test. Rachel discovers a clever workaround. She props the bottle up in the car seat basically has the baby feed itself. Some teachers are amused others. Aren't the girls are especially nervous about bringing the babies to play rehearsal.

12 (38m 40s):
They tell me the director's a little shouty.

10 (38m 49s):
Woo.

12 (38m 50s):
The show is dead. Man. Walking a stage version of the film. Both girls are in the play and they both play mothers. Rachel is the mother of the murderer Is the mother of the nun. <inaudible> Pages standing on a raised platform at the back of the stage. She's swaying a little looking up at the spotlight as she sings. And then just as she feared from backstage, her baby starts crying. Paige lunges off the platform and trips on a wooden crate. That's part of the set. She flies through the air.

12 (39m 31s):
Oddly gracefully and lands smack on her knee.

10 (39m 37s):
Yeah,

12 (39m 41s):
She's not fine. She's on the ground. Hugging her leg. Everyone circles around her. Since it was blood drive day, there's a student volunteer there still in his EMS uniform. He checks her leg to see if it's broken. It's not just a really bad bruise. Page's crying. Her baby is crying. She's cradling the baby in her arms. Someone turns a spotlight on them. Paige looks like the Virgin Mary. At this point, Paige decides she's ready to cheat. One of her friends tells her to take off the bracelet. Paige wrinkles it off her wrist and hands the baby and the bracelet to the girl who gets to work triaging

10 (40m 21s):
Rocky to be held. It needed to be held. It. It just needed to be held. I burped a button popping noises. How are you feeling about motherhood now? I hate it. <inaudible>

12 (40m 59s):
I asked the girls to record themselves on their phones at night, whenever their babies wake them up. Here's Rachel.

10 (41m 5s):
So it begins the first time she's woken me up. It's 11:30 PM diaper changing and the bottle have not worked. I'm attempting to wrap the baby. She appears have stopped. Hopefully she'll be sated for awhile, Rachel, over and out.

10 (41m 49s):
This is wake up. Number two, about five minutes later, it seems like she doesn't really need anything. She's just lonely, I guess. Oh, it's color. It was Brown for Jewish is four 13. The baby was hungry. The tiredness is really sitting in it's ground. Strangely, emotionally attached to this lump of plastic can be a tiny bit sad to get rid of her.

12 (42m 35s):
Rachel records herself every single time the baby wakes her up both nights. A total of nine times. Paige was so overwhelmed by the night wakings that she didn't wind up recording herself at all.

10 (42m 47s):
I don't I'm so, so tired. My whole, I don't know why, but I feel like my whole body has just been slammed up against a wall. I just, I can barely keep my eyes open. I just feel so exhausted.

12 (43m 3s):
And, and how were you feeling while it was going on? Were you feeling mad at the baby?

10 (43m 11s):
I was just like, Oh man, I, I just want my mom. I came in and said, we'll scan it sweetheart. At night. I can remember saying I already did. And then I like took her diaper off through the diaper, put the diaper back on and she's still was crying. And I looked at my mom and said mom. And so at around the third time she woke up, I was like, I just wanted everyone to be quiet and leave me alone.

12 (43m 43s):
The next day at school, Rachel was not herself before

10 (43m 46s):
Chorus. Katie Schultz, who is actually, she plays the nun in the play. She just asks me how's the baby. And I just went, can everyone just shut up? And in my mind, I was like, she wasn't doing anything. She was not the person I should be yelling at, but I was just like, <inaudible>

12 (44m 4s):
Overnight Paige and Rachel have become animals. I recognize intimately. They've become mothers, throwing their minds, bodies and hearts so fully into a tiny being that they can't help, but wine and lash out at people who don't deserve it. Even Paige says she's become a jerk or her version of a jerk. She forgot to thank a boy who held the door for her. Plus she admits to me that she's cheated a second time. She forgot to bring her costume dress rehearsal. So she slipped the bracelet off again and left the baby with a friend while she ran home. Next morning comes the moment of truth. The girls hand in their babies and get their grades.

12 (44m 44s):
The robot baby keeps a minute by minute record of how you did. Paige goes first

2 (44m 49s):
71 71, which is what? In letters, a C minus. And what did she get points deducted for four? Cause she had a missed feeding, a head support and then six 49. She had a missed feeding and a head support. Six 58. She had a missed burp and nine 29. Yeah. So yeah. All right. Sorry.

10 (45m 11s):
'cause I, I, every time she cried, I picked her up immediately gave her her bottle of, she didn't want that. I put her type one. So I don't know. I thought I did. Okay. I think I get like a seed. So disappointed that I got your grade.

2 (45m 32s):
Oh, it's a big moment for Rachel. And she's getting her grade 94, which translates to an eight.

12 (45m 42s):
If I were a betting person, I'd have never put money on Rachel doing better than page, especially not this much better for all of her baby clothes and maternal instinct, not to mention, wanting to be a young mom page turns out to be a below average mother. At least when it comes to plastic children, has this changed the way you feel about becoming a mother and about babies?

10 (46m 9s):
I thought like I could have a baby at 21. I'll go to ministry school, meet a man of God, a man of my dreams or get married and have a baby. But I think maybe, maybe I think maybe a little older than I thought. Like I, I cannot even imagine putting a baby a life into my world and I think it'd be horrible,

12 (46m 47s):
Paige. Isn't sure how old she wants to be when she starts a family. Now she just knows she can't even picture it. Her whole life plan has been thrown out of whack by her robot. Baby

10 (46m 57s):
Response to the baby was almost the opposite of pages in that if I have a baby really young, I feel like I would keep the baby.

12 (47m 6s):
I also never would have guessed that Paige and Rachel would flip their positions.

10 (47m 10s):
Cause I kinda liked the feeling of having a baby. Like for some reason, like I guess the idea that someone or something like needs you and only you kind of makes you feel like important. It was awful. But at the same time, like I was, I kinda, it,

14 (47m 30s):
I never really thought that I would want to have a kid younger, but

12 (47m 34s):
Maybe I would Rachel called it early onset baby fever and said, her mom was freaked out by it. I asked one of Rachel's teachers and the president of the company that makes the babies about this ironic and unintended outcome that the robot baby made a teenage girl want to have a real one. They both said this was rare. They shrugged it off. The teacher said she was sure Rachel's the kind of girl who will make a thoughtful decision about when to have her own child. Overall, the girls had a way more authentic mothering experience with the robot babies than I'd expected. But the moments when Rachel and page couldn't be available to the babies.

12 (48m 16s):
When Rachel gave blood, when Paige fell, the girls lost points in those moments, when you're a real parent, those things happen all the time. Diagnosing whether your kid needs to be fed or diapered or rocked. That's not what makes you a pro at parenting. It's coping with the stress of getting it wrong, feeling like an amateur, which is going to happen no matter how much practice you've had.

0 (48m 50s):
How are you Frank? She's the host of the parenting podcast. The longest shortest time and other several books, including weird parenting wins command to unbelief. Now we have the story of an amateur who for one night gets thrown into a very, very big job. One of the biggest jobs they basically get thrown in as the substitute teacher for a class, they have never taught or never taken specifically. They're supposed to sub for the president of the United States. You may have heard of this from a certain Kiefer Sutherland TV show. Before that TV show existed, today's program is a rerun.

0 (49m 33s):
Stephanie Fu did this story about how this thing happens in real life.

14 (49m 38s):
If somebody needs to sub for the president, the chain is clear. If the vice president can't do it, it goes to the speaker of the house. Then the president pro temporary of the Senate, then the secretary of state, secretary of the treasury secretary of defense all the way down the cabinet to energy education, veteran affairs, it's been this way since the presidential succession act of 1947. But what happens if all of those people are in one room, Mr. Speaker,

0 (50m 8s):
Mr. Vice president, rubbers of Congress, my fellow Americans,

14 (50m 13s):
The state of the union address. What if someone blows up the building and kills everyone on that list all at once? Well then the presidency goes to the designated survivor. That is a person chosen every year, the state of the union speech to survive. That's their whole job to survive. Run the United States government as an amateur president total beginner, whose first day on the job may include wreaking vengeance upon slash surrendering to whoever killed all our top leaders.

15 (50m 45s):
Mm.

14 (50m 48s):
Each year the designated survivor is assigned a security detail and moved to a safe, secret location away from the Capitol. This all began no surprise. During the cold war. Thomas Reed was an assistant to president Reagan for national security policy and it was his job to figure out what to do. If a nuclear weapon hit DC. He's the one who came up with the idea of the designated survivor.

15 (51m 11s):
Washington was targeted was over 300 Soviet nuclear weapons that were going to lay down on every possible escape, route escape. That barrage was nonsense. Well, I was nervous in that. I remember saying, geez, I know this is not going to happen. What if something does happen?

14 (51m 33s):
Richardson, former secretary of energy, designated survivor for the 2000 state of the union Richardson, wasn't sent into a bunker somewhere. He was in a small town in Maryland having dinner at his friend's house, which was surrounded by a security detail and emergency vehicles inside. They had steak.

15 (51m 52s):
We had a nice meal, but then we sat in front of the television and I was smoking a cigar. I had a glass of wine after it was all over.

14 (52m 3s):
I talked to a couple of designated survivors from the cold war era, who said they were put on planes and flown to undisclosed locations. One of them got training where he got to play war games and the secret Dr. Strangelove asks setting and they asked him questions like, okay, do you swear in immediately after the president's death, do you launch missiles at the Soviets? Do you hold your fire? He said, the training was so helpful. So enlightening that he thought nobody should become a designated survivor without undergoing at first, but by the end of the cold war post Gorbachov pre nine 11, things got a little more.

15 (52m 42s):
Can you say that I went through any kind of training course about what to do? The answer is no.

14 (52m 47s):
That's Dan Glickman, secretary of agriculture designated survivor during the 1997 status.

15 (52m 54s):
I think I did discuss with my wife that I could handle it if something terribly happened. And she says, well, good luck,

14 (53m 1s):
Donna Shalala, who was secretary of health and human services, designated survivor in 1996, didn't get any special training either. And she didn't even leave the neighborhood. She was just two and a half miles away from the Capitol at the white house.

15 (53m 15s):
So I took my senior staff to the Roosevelt room at the white house, and we had pizza and watch the state of the union. And I sort of wandered into the oval office and tried out the chair. When did it feel like big too big for me? President Clinton is a very large man.

14 (53m 36s):
One designated survivor told me that actually attending the state of the union is a pain. You have to look attentive and interested in improving for a really long time. In case the camera's panty, you being designated survivor, much easier. One guy who asked I not use his name, went on a vacation to the Caribbean. When he got the gig, not a government expense, he was quick to tell me he happened to have plans to go. Anyway. Another designated survivor took the opportunity to move to a new house. A caravan of secret service guarded him as he loaded up his moving van. One thing you might have noticed from the designated survivors I spoke to, none of them had day jobs that had anything to do with national security.

14 (54m 19s):
Usually it's the non Marquis cabinet members, secretary of the interior energy, commerce, agriculture people whose names you probably don't know ever heard of Anthony Fox. He's our secretary of transportation and this year's designated survivor. And when I heard about that, I kind of thought, well, seriously, the decision to launch nuclear, retaliation, kill millions of people could possibly rest in the hands of the secretary of transportation. Thomas Reed, the guy who designed this program says why not? The secretary of transportation is as good a person as any

9 (54m 54s):
The question in politics. And all of other things in life is compared to who the question is not, is so-and-so authorized or qualified to be president or a governor or a successor. The question is compared to who compared to Joseph Stalin, of course, compared to Dwight as an hour, probably not.

14 (55m 14s):
And that the cabinet, they're all brilliant people and certainly have the wherewithal to, at least to me, the initial decisions,

9 (55m 24s):
Stephanie, they're not all brilliant people any more than you or I are. And they all have problems and some smoke too much and some are overweight and so forth and so on. They're all human beings.

14 (55m 38s):
And Reid said the president's been chosen by the American people and the president chooses the designated survivor. So therefore by proxy, that person is chosen by the American people.

9 (55m 49s):
Sometimes they choose, well, sometimes they don't. That's what politics is all about.

14 (55m 53s):
That's a very ominous statement.

9 (55m 56s):
Yes, yes it is.

14 (55m 59s):
Here's Dan Glickman again, designated survivor in 1997, secretary of agriculture,

15 (56m 4s):
You know, I mean, I was not really briefed on what to do if something were to happen to the president, but I, you know, I have enough confidence in myself that if something were to happen, I would have followed certain basic rules and would have been a good soldier in that, in that case,

14 (56m 19s):
When Glickman was a designated survivor, they flew him to LaGuardia airport, a G three plane, along with some stern looking guys in suits, one of whom may or may not have been carrying the nuclear football and a fancy briefcase. Then they got Glickman and a three car caravan drove him to his daughter's modest apartment in Manhattan, West village and stood guard outside while he watched the speech on TV, Glickman admitted. He did imagine what it would be like.

15 (56m 44s):
I did think about it w it wouldn't, it, it, wasn't a very interesting thing that here, the secretary of agriculture could be president United States. And I'd been telling the world all these years, that agriculture was the most important part of our government. So, you know, I could reinforce that message. Certainly

14 (57m 1s):
All of a sudden that would be our number one national agenda is just agriculture,

15 (57m 5s):
Agriculture, food, and agriculture

14 (57m 8s):
Glickman even said that in his regular job, he was so unimportant that immediately after the speech was over, he lost the security detail. They bailed on him and went back to Washington.

15 (57m 17s):
And in fact, their exact words were Mr. Glickman, the mission is terminated. And I decided to stay in New York and have dinner with my daughter. And it was cold and raining and sleeting. And once the dinner was over, we went outside of the restaurant and we couldn't find a cab. So we walked back about 12 blocks back to my daughter's apartment and in a sleet storm. And I, it struck me that just three or four hours before I was the most powerful man on the face of the earth for about an hour. And now I couldn't even get a cab.

14 (57m 53s):
The fact of the matter is no first-term president goes into office knowing how to be president. He learns on the job everything's new and opening that briefcase and deciding whether to launch a nuclear strike. Nobody could be ready for that. The president might be as likely to make the wrong choice as the secretary of agriculture or the secretary of transportation or the white house intern, or you

16 (58m 24s):
Stephanie Fu she used to be a producer on our program. She's not writing a book about healing from complex PTSD. Bergen was produced today by Stephanie Fu was Zoe chase. Sean <inaudible>, Nikki, Mick, Jonathan, and KIBO brand. We'd do a Richmond, Robin semi and Alyssa ship and Nancy Updike. Our senior producer per today shows Julie Snyder editing help from Joel level. Technical director is Matt Tierney production up from Iris Smith and Arie Safferstein research up today from Christopher Rotella and Michelle Harris music help Damian gray from Rob Geddes special. Thanks today to Derek Brown for telling us about the soldier safety show at Fort Bragg, you can find Derek's work@brownpoetry.com.

16 (59m 9s):
Thanks to Lisa pallet for calling us in by designated survivors. Thanks to Joanna Satara Alex Cappleman, Maria deacon, Dena, Brian Haley, rusty Hutchinson, Quincy Bellwoods Victor Hurtado, Evan Middlesworth at pine hollow audio and the teachers and students at Glen Ridge high school. Our website, this American life.org. This American life is delivered to public radio stations by PRX, the public radio exchange. Thanks as always to a program's co-founder Mr. Tory. Maltia, here's his name right here in the credits every single week, every single week. And he asks, what the, what are we doing? Why are we doing this? I'm Eric Glass back next week. More stories of this America