Northern Trust (0s):
Support for this American life comes from the Northern trust. There is no doubt. ESG investing is growing rapidly, but are these investments really delivering on what they promise? Some investors worry about potentially sacrificing returns while others consider whether they're investment decisions will make much of a difference at all. Talk with a Northern trust advisor to learn how you can align your investments and values without compromising your financial goals.

1 (26s):
A quick warning. There are curse words that are UN beeped in today's episode of the show. If you prefer a beeped version, you can find that at our website, this American life.org,

2 (37s):
Hey there everybody. IRA glass here is this American life from WB Z Chicago. When our producers HANA JFI, Walt has been reporting a lot on education in schools, and a few years back, she did this story. That's about a part of education that everybody knows about, but I think we do not talk about it much at all. Not in a way that feels like anything. This story that she put together is full of surprise turns and twists. And I don't wanna waste any more time here, setting this up. So I'm just gonna hand over the show, Johanna, so we can get to it here. She is

3 (1m 11s):
Lisa and Angela are both teachers, both in the Bronx and New York city, both relentlessly energetic women who make generous use of their arms while talking they met years ago, they liked each other in 2005. Lisa and Angela were part of a program that brought their two schools together, sort of a classroom exchange kids from Lisa's school would see Angela's school and vice versa. They thought their students would get a lot out of meeting each other and learning about one another schools because their students spend their school days into very different places. Lisa Green bound school university Heights high school is a public school.

3 (1m 50s):
It's 97% black and Hispanic. It's located in the poorest congressional district in the country. The south Bronx, Angela Vasos school Fieldston is also in the Bronx, but it's one of New York city's elite private schools. It's 70% white. It's known as a progressive school. One in five kids gets financial aid, which is helpful because last year tuition was $43,000. These two schools were three miles from each other, but the students basically needed a foreign exchange program to meet each other.

3 (2m 31s):
The teacher started by having their students write letters to each other. They were pen pals for a while, which was going well. And then Lisa and Angela planned a time to get them together. Lisa, the public school teacher says the moment her kids got off the bus at Fieldston, the private school, they had a dramatic reaction to what they saw.

5 (2m 53s):
They couldn't believe the campus. They felt like everyone was looking at them. And one of the students started screaming and crying like this is unfair. This is, this is, this is I don't wanna be here. I'm leaving. I'm leaving right now. I'm going home. We were like, Melanie. It's okay. You should stay with the group. Let's talk. You know,

3 (3m 15s):
Some context, university Heights, the public school, these kids were coming from it's small and friendly. There are no metal detectors, but it's a public school in a poor neighborhood. The kids share a building and a gym with another school. The private school Fieldston has an 18 acre campus on a hill. Stone buildings are connected by landscaped paths. Every few windows is the size of a garage door. There's a dance studio, an art gallery, a pool. So on that first day, the public school kids, almost all of them, Puerto Rican and Dominican kids from the south Bronx walk onto the campus, look around at the quad. The trees see the school's mission etched into the stone arches.

3 (3m 59s):
Angela, the private school teacher from Fieldston came to greet them and immediately noticed that one of the girls seemed upset.

6 (4m 6s):
And I went over to talk to her as did Lisa and that's she jumped up and she said, we've gotta get outta here. We've gotta get outta here. We've gotta get outta here. And I thought it was a joke at the beginning. I didn't realize, you know, and it really was. I mean, she went white, like completely white, you know, blood drained from her face and her friend was holding her and saying calm down, Melanie, calm down Melanie. So it was just an awful situation. None of us had anticipated such a strong reaction.

3 (4m 42s):
There are hundreds of programs right now that are trying to do some version of this exchange program to help people connect across a growing divide. For a lot of students, American public schools are more segregated than they were a generation ago. Not less. The gap between rich and poor is wider than it's been since the great depression, basically whatever gap you hear about income gap, achievement, gap, racial divide. These two groups of kids from university Heights and Fieldston exist on opposite sides. And just seeing across that divide something so many of us never do can be incredibly powerful. In this case from the very first few minutes, it was definitely dramatic.

3 (5m 26s):
This incident when the kids visited field St happened 10 years ago. And I heard this story from so many different people. The teachers, kids from both schools, Allison Roland was a junior at the private school Fieldston at the time she remembers the girl who freaked out.

7 (5m 42s):
People were like, what happened? That was like weird, but nobody really, it was very behind the scenes.

3 (5m 48s):
Even more. She remembers the feeling she had seeing the girl freak out, feeling helpless.

7 (5m 54s):
It's uncomfortable when you can't help someone not be uncomfortable. No one wants to feel like they're on the hill school on the top of the hill. And they repeat like, like it's uncomfortable. But at the same time, like I totally understood where she was coming from in terms of like, it is messed up. It's crazy. Like our educations have been so drastically different and that's completely unfair. But like, what do you do in the moment when you're still a high school student and you don't have the power, you know, like I don't have a degree. I couldn't become a politician in that moment and change. I don't know. You know, making change. It takes a long time.

3 (6m 27s):
A lot of fields and students do go on to be politicians and run while Disney and the New York times and host evening news programs and design major American cities. And part of the point of programs like these that try to bridge the divide is seeing as the private school kids will likely go on to be important, influential people, maybe write education policy or finance new businesses. It's good for them to know. Not everybody's life looks like theirs, but of course, then there's the question. What do the public school kids get out of it right now? There's a popular idea in education. It pops up all over the place about exposure.

3 (7m 8s):
That exposure is particularly important for poor kids. Not just important that it can change destinies. You know, you take a group of kids to tour a college campus. They'll be more likely to go to college. Or if you just know someone who went to college, that'll help. The idea is if you want a kid to move from one social class to another, that kid has to see what it looks like over there. On the other side, exposure is a tool for social change and economic mobility, or it just sucks. You see how much you did not get and it's shocking or painful. And you freak out like that. One girl, Melanie, the people who run programs like these hope that even if it's upsetting in the moment, ultimately this kind of experience helps more than it hurts, but nobody really knows because this is the kind of thing that plays out over time.

3 (8m 4s):
It occurred to me that the group of kids who are part of that first year exchange between Fieldston and university Heights could answer this question. Does it hurt or help the public school kids? It's been 10 years. They're in their mid twenties now. So they've gone to college, gotten apartments and jobs. And it turns out this one experience really has shaped some of the public school kids in profound ways, ways I did not see coming. Today's show what happens when you see the other side. And it looks a lot better.

3 (8m 44s):
Let's begin with Melanie, the girl who freaked out. I wondered about Melanie because she had such a strong, immediate reaction that everyone remembered. But also because listen to what happened after that. So apparently Melanie started crying the moment she got to Fieldstone wanted to leave, but the teachers managed to calm her down. And for a while it seemed like the moment had passed and they were fine. They partnered all the students up. So the university Heights kids could go with the Fieldstone kids to some of their classes, Marlena Edelstein, a field St. Student told me the girl who shadowed her. She doesn't remember her name, but other people told me it was Melanie. Marlena has never forgotten her.

8 (9m 25s):
I remember we were studying en the enlightenment. We were, we were looking at it through paintings. And I remember her making connections between the painting and enlightenment era philosophers and quoting John Locke and just schooling all of us, you know, making connections that I would've been completely incapable of making. And just clearly the smartest person in the room.

3 (9m 53s):
Then after wowing everyone in this class with her intellect, Melanie left, ran away. She found the experience of being at Fieldstone. So upsetting. She ultimately could not stand to be there. And Lisa Greenbaum, her teacher told me, Melanie did not just run away from Fieldstone that day. She also seemed to run away from high school. She doesn't remember seeing her much after that.

5 (10m 17s):
I would love to know. I would love to know how she feels about who she is, you know? And if that moment in her life, in any way, shape the way she thinks today,

3 (10m 28s):
Lisa told me she had no idea where Melanie was, but she said, you know who you should call Ashley Wallace. That was Melanie's best friend she'll know what happened.

9 (10m 37s):
Oh, me and Melanie were pissed off.

3 (10m 41s):
Wow.

9 (10m 41s):
We were definitely, we were definitely pissed off. I mean, have you ever seen, ever Hans

3 (10m 46s):
Seen what?

9 (10m 48s):
Edward Han.

3 (10m 49s):
Yeah. Yeah.

9 (10m 50s):
And you know how like his house is at the top of the hill and it's all dark and gloomy. And then you have the rest of the town where all the houses are colorful and it's sunny all day and bright or whatever the case is. It was just like that. Like we were leaving the Bronx and going into some complete, totally different utopian existence. You know, Lisa kept telling us why we were penal on these kids that, oh, they go to a private school, but they're just like us. And just like us is you live in a bad neighborhood. Like we do. You go to a bullshit city at school. Like we do where we have no cafeteria because it's been converted into a classroom.

9 (11m 30s):
We have a daycare for mothers who have children. There's what, 1, 2, 3 floors in our school. She's like, oh, they're just like us. They're nothing like us, nothing at all.

3 (11m 44s):
I asked Ashley, so where is Melanie? Now?

9 (11m 47s):
She actually graduated a little earlier and I've been looking for her since then because you know, me and her used to be very, very close

3 (11m 57s):
For a while. It seemed like maybe they just lost touch. That happens after high school. Ashley's mom moved to Atlanta. Eventually Ashley did two and had a baby. But after a while it stopped feeling to Ashley. Like the two of them had just drifted apart and started to feel more like Melanie did not want to be found. Her phone number changed. She's nowhere online. Ashley has checked Facebook so many times

9 (12m 21s):
My mom always asks about her and stuff, but I could not find her.

3 (12m 25s):
Did do you know she went to college?

9 (12m 28s):
No, I really don't.

3 (12m 30s):
But Ashley says she must have, how else does someone disappear like that? Unless they make it out of the Bronx and never look back. There is a New York city number listed under Melanie's name. But of course not

10 (12m 49s):
Accept calls at this time. We're sorry for any inconvenience. This may cause

3 (12m 54s):
There's a woman with the same name who manages a real estate firm in Corpus Christi. There's a dental lab technician in Harrisburg, an executive office professional in Las Vegas. A woman on Twitter, who I think lives in Mexico and has devoted her account to retweeting Justin Bieber's Twitter account. They all seem to be about the right age. All not her. A background check on Melanie's name, Lista, current and former address. I went to the current one. She does not live there. Sent letters to both, no luck. Ashley, her friend from high school gave me a couple names of people she thought might have kept up with Melanie. And top of the list was Pablo Muriel, their high school history teacher.

3 (13m 38s):
He's Puerto Rican like Melanie from the neighborhood. Ashley says we all loved Pablo, but especially Melanie.

11 (13m 45s):
Yes. Hello.

3 (13m 46s):
Hi. It's Conna JFI Walt. The reporter. Oh

11 (13m 49s):
Yes. Hi. How are you? You call me at the perfect time. I was these people calling you into meetings. So I was like, oh, thank God. How are you?

3 (13m 56s):
Pablo said, Melanie is one of those kids you remember? Because she was very, very, very smart, three varies and full of potential. She stood out to him for other reasons too.

11 (14m 7s):
She was a bit out there. Like her personality was out there. However, her intellect surpassed most of her peers at the time. Interesting enough. I think she, she passed by the school to visit maybe like four years ago. And I remember her coming back when you had to say hello to me and I was with another teacher sitting down. I won't forget this day because it was just so odd. She came and spoke to me and I told her, hold on, I'll talk to you in a minute. I think she took it as me brushing her off. And she just like kind of stormed out and I never saw her again.

3 (14m 39s):
You were just like busy and like happy to see you just hang on a second.

11 (14m 43s):
Yeah. Yeah, because it was, she called me between classes. Hi problem. Like, oh, Hey Melanie, hold on. I'll talk to you in a minute. And then she just said, okay, whatever. And she just left and I never saw her again.

3 (14m 56s):
I began contacting former classmates and I became sort of obsessed because it was weird how invisible she was. Everyone else was super easy to find. These are 25 year olds and we have the internet and the classmates memories of Melanie were all similarly mythic. She spoke her mind. She was brilliant. She was fierce. She was gonna make it. And no one had heard from her weirdly the one person I contacted who had a real idea of what happened to Melanie was the teacher from Fieldston, the private school, Angela Vasos.

3 (15m 38s):
Someone told me Angela had taken a special interest in Melanie after she got so upset at Fieldston. And a decade later when I met Angela and first asked about Melanie, she started crying. I'm

12 (15m 53s):
No problem. There's a

3 (15m 56s):
Part of me. Angela got a box of tissues. Then sat down.

6 (16m 2s):
I had a real soft spot for that kid. I still have a soft spot for that kid. She was smart. You know, real smart. I don't know if she realized she knew she was powerful, but I dunno if she knew she was smart.

3 (16m 16s):
After that first encounter at Fieldston, Angela tried hard to gain Melanie's trust. I think she felt partially responsible and she really wanted to help Melanie, even though she wasn't Melanie's teacher, the program kept going throughout the year. Angela would bring her private school students over to the public school and sometimes she'd visit on her own. And every time she'd make a special point to check in on Melanie. The last time Angela ever saw Melanie was in the public school. Angela was over there visiting and Lillian. The college advisor comes in.

6 (16m 51s):
She walked in and Melanie was really on a tear about white bitches. And they don't know anything about the world. And Lillian walks in and she waves a piece of paper and she says, Melanie, come here, Melanie goes up. They're like 50 people in the room. She says, Middlebury accepted you full scholarship. And Melanie started crying. I started crying. We all did. We were so excited. You know, and Lilian, she said, we made it, we made it. We made it, you know, incredible news and Middlebury. We're talking about a serious, serious school, full scholarship.

6 (17m 34s):
And Melanie buried her face, you know, and Lilian's shoulder here. And they hugged for such a long time. Not, you know, on these hugs, like it must have been like a two minute hug and Lilian was swinging her around and Melanie had arms around her and I thought that's so, so great. And you knew at that moment it was moving because you knew at that moment, Melanie felt safe. And that's when Melanie disappeared because she did not finish the last month of the year. She disappeared to this day. They don't know where she is. She probably just got scared, you know?

13 (18m 14s):
Wait,

3 (18m 15s):
So you got into Middlebury, but she didn't go.

6 (18m 17s):
She didn't finish the last month of school either. She left. Oh, wow. Yeah. Literally disappeared. No one could find her.

3 (18m 35s):
I called Middlebury to see if maybe Melanie did attend. They said, no, did you get in? They said, we have no record showing that she received an offer of admission. I didn't know if that meant she wasn't admitted or they just had no record either way, but that's all they would say. And this was strange because Angela had such a vivid memory of Melanie getting in and Angela herself went to Middlebury. So she probably didn't mix up the name of the college. Plus the college advisor at Melanie's school seemed to remember it. So at this point I went back to Melanie's high school friend, Ashley, and just asked if it sounded like Melanie to psych herself out like that.

3 (19m 14s):
And she said no way. I only made it to my G E D, but Melanie was singularly focused on college. She'd cursed me out. When I cut class,

9 (19m 24s):
When it came to down to me and her, I was, you know what she was trying to avoid.

3 (19m 30s):
Melanie was not going to fail at high school. She would go to college with no babies and live far, far from New York city period.

14 (19m 39s):
You can say things like when is my recycling picked up or report a noisy neighbor, go ahead,

3 (19m 47s):
Death record.

14 (19m 49s):
All right. I can help you learn how to request a certificate for a death reported in

3 (19m 53s):
The scene. I didn't think Melanie was dead, but a friend asked and once that seed was planted, I could not get the idea out of my head. The same day I went in person to the city's office for vital records. I also went to an old address, listed on a background, check one. I sent letters to, I

13 (20m 12s):
Don't think she lives here

3 (20m 13s):
Anymore. The buzzer didn't have Melanie's name on it. And I pressed it anyway. No answer stood by the door to the building.

13 (20m 22s):
Hi. Hey, you have somebody named Melanie? Yes. That's my girlfriend actually. Oh really? Yes. You've been searching for her. Actually. I have, she got your letters. She's actually at work.

3 (20m 34s):
That's his girlfriend. She's at work.

13 (20m 36s):
She says she's been busy for school and work. Yeah. She hasn't really got a chance to reach out to me and she did get my letters. Yeah. She got your letters. Oh great. Oh, I'm so glad I asked you. What's your name? Ask Jonathan.

3 (20m 50s):
I'm Hannah. I see. He told me she called, when she got off work, he didn't wanna tell me anything more, but he did tell me, Melanie worked at a supermarket on sixth avenue. It happens to be around the corner from my office. It took three days for Melanie to call me. And when she did, she carefully said, I've given this a lot of thought and I'm ready to talk. I can't believe you're here.

15 (21m 15s):
I can't believe I'm here.

3 (21m 17s):
Yeah. Are you, are you nervous?

15 (21m 20s):
I mean, I, I looked on the website. I mean, it's, you know, probably something that people are gonna hear. People are gonna listen to. If they could see me, they know I'm different. You know, I'm different. I'm sitting here with like blue, green hair.

3 (21m 34s):
She's also wearing pink sweatpants and a hoodie. Her hair is actually under a hat. So all I can see are some green bangs peeking out the, they she's talking about that's you listening right now. Melanie has considered you a lot. Who you are, how you'll hear her. I asked Melanie about the visit to Fieldston pretty early on in our conversation. But her answer began with her first day of high school. She says she was just one of those kids who always loved school. She got good grades and she'd been anticipating high school years before she got there. She had a clear image in her mind of how exciting it would be. She'd become a better writer, read, read, and read and go to games, maybe join the dance team and her first day, a freshman year.

15 (22m 20s):
Well, I remember going in and I was just like, what is this? You know, like this has gotta be a joke. Wait, the

3 (22m 30s):
School felt

15 (22m 31s):
Like a joke. Yeah, completely. I was sitting in a classroom with seniors when I was a freshman. They didn't even have a math. B course what's

3 (22m 41s):
Math. B

15 (22m 41s):
I don't know what that is. It's like the second level to math. A, I would say prior to like taking trigonometry or like even statistics or something like that, they don't offer any AP classes. You know, another thing that was really tormenting to me was that we didn't have library and I love books. This is like, wow, we're really in a poor part of the Bronx where we're not being considered.

3 (23m 10s):
Then in 10th grade, Melanie's English teacher said they were gonna start a pen pal program with a school called Fieldston. Melanie was open to it. She wrote a sincere letter describing herself and her dreams and climbed onto the bus with the rest of her classmates to go to Fieldston. So what happened when you went there?

15 (23m 29s):
When we went there, we looked like a bunch of hooligans. I would say we looked like the Goonies walking in, like, you know, wall street building. I felt like, you know, we weren't from there like, oh, who are these ghetto kids walking in? You know, it just, we knew we didn't fit in. We didn't look like the rest of the students. It was like a very organized school. Wait,

3 (23m 51s):
What did you look like? Like what do you mean when

15 (23m 53s):
You looked? Well, when I went there, I had bright red hair, cherry red, like Charlie Baltimore, which was a female rapper at the time I had my nails like super like out here, really colorful, like 20 colors on them. All of us wore like, Jordan's like everybody in the hood. Oh, Jordan's is like the big thing you could tell, like you knew off the back, these students are not from the school.

3 (24m 19s):
What did you feel like that day?

15 (24m 22s):
I felt like a ratchet ass girl from the hood day. I felt like I didn't belong there. I just felt like, you know, I have no business in this building. I don't remember them. They were just like a sea of white blonde, blue, green eyes. I couldn't possibly bring myself into my body to actually engage with these kids. I didn't wanna engage with them

3 (24m 47s):
For so many university Heights kids I talked to seeing Fieldston was shocking because of the stark difference. It was a surprise. They could not have imagined a place like Fieldston for Melanie. It wasn't that Melanie had imagined it.

15 (25m 2s):
This was what I envisioned as high school. What these kids are experiencing. This is what I wanted to see myself going through as a high school experience.

3 (25m 12s):
Oh, that's what you expected high school

15 (25m 14s):
To be. Yeah, definitely.

3 (25m 16s):
So you didn't like what felt surprising to you was just like, this is the first time that I'm seeing the thing that in real life that I thought was what I was gonna walk into in ninth grade.

15 (25m 28s):
Yep. And it was just like, okay, this is private. So this is everything kind of like is a fucking line that you see your whole life growing up on TV shows or movies. It's like, okay, this is not free. This is not available for kids of color. This is something that only privileged or the elite can have. I know I looked at it and I said, well, I know that we're only being taught to flip burgers in burger king or McDonald's or to hold doors for students like them. That will probably live in those buildings on Madison avenue. And we'll be wearing the uniform, servicing these people.

3 (26m 10s):
You thought that when you were at

15 (26m 12s):
Field school? Definitely. Wow.

3 (26m 13s):
That's

15 (26m 14s):
Wow. So it's like when the shit hits the van.

3 (26m 18s):
So, so you like imagined like the

15 (26m 20s):
Future. Yeah.

3 (26m 20s):
Yeah.

15 (26m 21s):
Seeing what we would all be like as adults.

3 (26m 26s):
So that's what you found. So upsetting, it seemed that the people around her must believe that this was the natural order of things. Melanie knew there was no innate difference between her and a kid born into wealth. She could see that this division were all so ignored to was not a reflection of her and fear, worth or ability. She just didn't know what to do with the idea that she might be alone in seeing that. But Melanie had her own plan after Fieldstone, as soon as she could get out of high school. And her plan did not involve holding doors.

3 (27m 8s):
She had enough credits to graduate high school early as a junior.

15 (27m 12s):
So I just wanna hurry up and get my high school diploma to say, here I'm educated. I got it. I wanna get into a four year school. I already sold myself with a master's degree, which means 16 to 24, 8 years. Yep. Check

3 (27m 25s):
Melanie's vision was so clear and the adults around her could see it too. Pablo Muriel, the teacher and all the teachers at her school knew their job was to fill in the gaps, make up for the fact that Melanie did not get to be a field stem kid and get her to college. Anyway. So a few months before graduation, the high school guidance counselor nominated Melanie for something called a posse scholarship. The posse foundation sends kids from 10 cities to private elite colleges, full scholarship schools like Cornell Dartmouth and Middlebury. Melanie had her eyesight on Middlebury, just like Angela Vasos remembered.

3 (28m 5s):
And the thing that could get her, there was the posse scholarship.

15 (28m 9s):
It's really competitive. This hundreds of kids all over New York city. And like this one floor of a building that you go to. Do

3 (28m 19s):
You remember what you wore?

15 (28m 21s):
I think the first day I wore high heels and a skirt. Maybe I wore tie with, with a shirt and dress up shirt. I always went very professional. When I went there, like what is considered office apparel?

3 (28m 35s):
Posse sends groups of kids to college together, a posse. And they're trying to choose kids who would otherwise be missed because they're test scores. Aren't great. Or because they go to bad schools. After the first round half the students get called back the next round half the remaining students, then that group gets cut again, trying to figure out how to get into college is stressful for everyone. But for most people it does not look like reality TV.

15 (29m 2s):
I kept getting, you know, put to the next stage. And each time you go back, they just send you a letter in the mail, letting you know, okay, you made it through the next round. We expect you here at this this day. This time, the final time is when you meet the college

3 (29m 19s):
Middlebury. Do you remember what they asked you in the interview?

15 (29m 23s):
No, I don't.

3 (29m 25s):
Were you nervous?

15 (29m 27s):
I was nervous, very nervous.

3 (29m 29s):
This year. I sat in on the posse finalist interviews. And I can tell you that by this point in the process, the only kids left in the room could do your job with a week of training. We were sitting in this, this room with 25 amazing kids, 15 of them were about to get voted off the island. They get a letter like Melanie did saying no,

15 (29m 51s):
You know, unfortunately you didn't get picked. You know, I believe I still have that letter hiding somewhere.

3 (30m 1s):
Melanie did not get in. She made it to the very last round, but in the end she did not get it. I don't know why Angela Vasos remembers Melanie getting into Middlebury except that what she and the school college counselor must be remembering is the moment Melanie was selected as a finalist, cuz that would've been an exciting moment. And it would make sense that they did not know the very last step that in the end, Melanie did not make it because they never saw her again. They couldn't have known, seeing Fieldston was not what made Melanie wanna run away. It was this,

15 (30m 40s):
You go through something to just get turned down as a waste too. It's like, would you've been better off not going through this experience?

3 (30m 49s):
Is that how you feel?

15 (30m 50s):
I mean, maybe I would've been better off not going through that experience. Like once that happened, I just like wrote it off out of my life

3 (31m 1s):
Because it's too painful.

15 (31m 3s):
I think cuz it's just a moment of disappointment.

3 (31m 8s):
Yeah. I can see

15 (31m 9s):
That. It's like a really beautiful thing. If you do get it, you know, at least that's the way it looked. But what you put children through to get there is hard to then be turned down and say, why didn't I get it was what was wrong with me?

3 (31m 33s):
Melanie could see an elite college was a long shot, especially for a kid from a poor public school, but she was going to make it because she was exceptional. Her teacher saw it. She knew it. That was the ground she stood on until this moment,

15 (31m 49s):
You know, maybe you were just somebody exceptional because of the environment you were in. Not necessarily because you are exceptional people like, oh you're so smart. You know, you're gonna be this. You're gonna be that. You're gonna be somebody gonna change the world. You're gonna, and it's like be realistic. You know, Pablo wanted me to apply for Harvard. I was like, be fucking realistic. I'm never gonna get accepted to Harvard. This is a school that doesn't even have fucking statistics off it. You know? Like I AP classes or you know, versus a kid like Fieldston, you walk out in four years, you're prepared to go to school like that. Like this is not happening for me. I don't think anything is gonna change that.

15 (32m 31s):
After that, I definitely knew that I wanted to run outta that high school as fast as possible. I ended up graduating like spring semester of that year and I was gone. So

3 (32m 42s):
Really gone.

15 (32m 43s):
Yeah. Really gone, gone

3 (32m 45s):
Like off the map gone.

15 (32m 47s):
Yep. This has to be her.

16 (32m 52s):
Hi Melanie. This is Lisa. I taught you.

3 (32m 56s):
I was walking with Melanie one day recently when she played a voicemail for me, she got from Lisa Greenbaum, her old high school teacher. I hadn't given Lisa Melanie's number. I hadn't even told her yet about being in touch. It turned out just a few days before Melanie had called the front desk of the high school to get a copy of her diploma. And people from the school started getting back in touch.

16 (33m 18s):
I would love to hear what's going on with you. Call me when you can. It

3 (33m 22s):
Is Melanie is shaking her head listening, looking

16 (33m 25s):
Forward to talking to you. Bye-bye

3 (33m 27s):
Are you gonna call her back

15 (33m 30s):
Probably by the end of the week?

3 (33m 31s):
No, you're not. How are you going

15 (33m 33s):
To no, I'll probably call. I just wanna go about my business. Do what I gotta do for myself.

3 (33m 39s):
In other words. Yeah, absolutely not. Melanie never called Lisa.

15 (33m 45s):
I'm surprised that my number even got passed. These people I'm like, it's just calling because I happen to call the school. It's not like anybody's really reaching out to me.

3 (33m 55s):
This of course makes no sense. Somebody calling your mobile device and saying, I would love to hear what's going on with you. That's the definition of someone reaching out. But this is where Melanie is right now for the last decade of her life. She's been working at the supermarket, taking local college courses. Part-time stopping every few semesters when she needs money or sleep and thinking about where she went wrong. She didn't apply to any other private colleges after Middlebury turned her down. She did not reach out to Lisa or Pablo or Ashley or Angela. She graduated early and checked out of high school and she's furious at herself for doing that.

15 (34m 34s):
I accepted it basically. And I guess I just grew very angry with myself for making that choice of saying, well, I'm gonna accept this instead of fighting against it or you know, maybe bringing change into that situation. But I didn't, I accepted it. I that's always in the back of my head. Like I know I, I know I fucked that up because I could've probably gotten something out of that extra year of school.

3 (34m 57s):
What would you have gotten?

15 (34m 59s):
I don't know. What if, what if I would've reached out? What if, what if you know, they would've sent me to CUNY for, you know, free college courses. There could have been another opportunity I just did. I got so frustrated to the point that I didn't want to look for. The opportunity was just like, I want the shit over and done with cuz I feel like it wasn't gonna change.

3 (35m 20s):
So now a high school teacher who remembers Melanie as having so much promise is calling and wanting to catch up. Of course, Melanie doesn't wanna return that call. So for you like to have people tell you you're exceptional or for me to say people, remember you as being very smart. It's just sort of like it's like salt on a wound or something. It just,

15 (35m 39s):
I, I, I don't. Yeah. Like how, how, how do I measure that intelligence? It's very hard to deal with.

3 (35m 48s):
Have you gone to Middlebury? Do you think you would believe that you were smart?

15 (35m 55s):
Yeah. Why not?

3 (35m 59s):
Just like she felt when she visited fields in that first time, Melanie can sense a better alternate reality sitting right there next to her today. An alternate reality where she went to college and her life is totally different.

2 (36m 28s):
JAL coming up, we meet that alternate reality. Melanie. If she went to college, that's in a minute from Chicago public radio. When a program continues

Indeed (36m 39s):
Support for this American life comes from indeed. No one has a business like yours with all its strengths and challenges to succeed. You need a hiring partner that adapts to your needs. You need indeed, indeed is the hiring platform where you can attract interview and hire all in one place. Start hiring now with a $75 sponsored job credit to upgrade your job post at indeed.com/american offer. Good for a limited time claim your $75 credit now at indeed.com/american indeed.com/american terms and conditions apply need to hire. You need indeed.

Modern Love (37m 17s):
Hey, this American life listeners, I'm Anna Martin, the host of the modern love podcast. In every episode, we peek into an intimate corner of someone's life and learn about what love means to them. You know, I can tell you 35 years with another person, I've never spent that much time with anyone else either. So we both kind of said, I love you pretty fast. My advice is that it's okay. If it's hard, you can listen to modern love wherever you get your podcasts.

2 (37m 48s):
This American life from IRA class today's program three miles K JAL is looking at a group of students who shared one small experience. There's students from a public school in the Bronx who took field trips three miles up the road to visit one of new York's fanciest private schools. In the first half of our program, we heard from Melanie who thinks that if she had gone to college, it would've made all the difference in her life. In this half of the show, we're gonna look at whether or not that's true. A lot of kids from her public high school, university Heights, high school live the life that she did not. They did go to college, two thirds of them last year again, here's Hannah JY. Walt

3 (38m 23s):
I've been talking to lots of university Heights graduates, and I've had this experience a couple times where I feel like I'm speaking to Melanie's alternate reality. The year after Melanie graduated a handsome young black university height, senior named Jonathan Gonzalez won the posse scholarship. This is a kid who grew up in Melanie's neighborhood, went to her school was one of only a dozen or so kids picked to be part of the program with Fieldstone and he won the posse scholarship. Melanie. So desperately wanted, if anyone is alternate reality, Melanie, it is Jonathan, but this is not a role Jonathan conveniently slots into.

19 (39m 3s):
I didn't really for myself. I didn't really see college. You know, for myself, I saw just not being a homeless guy

3 (39m 12s):
At 15 years old, Melanie could see a future with college and graduate school. Not only that everyone around her could see it too. This is not what people saw for Jonathan. This is not what Jonathan saw for Jonathan

19 (39m 25s):
I there, I didn't have a drive to go to college.

3 (39m 28s):
Why not?

19 (39m 31s):
I, it was never, you know what I thought of myself in the future was being the janitor. Cuz I was waking up Saturday mornings, you know, mopping the house, cleaning ceiling fans, sweeping the floor, washing dishes, whatever. What have you, you know, that was what I was experienced in. So college was like, I don't know what I would do there. And I had the blessing to have a girlfriend that was into the books.

3 (39m 59s):
Raquel, Hardy. I wish you could see Jonathan's face when he talks about Raquel. I know that's a corny thing to say. I promise if you could see it, you'd forget to be so cool. Jonathan says he's loved Raquel basically. As long as he can remember

19 (40m 14s):
Pretty long time, I've known her since I was 12. My junior high school teacher actually said that we would be married. I guess she saw it from, you know, the way we looked at each other or spent time with each other in the classroom. And we always played it down. Like, no, no,

3 (40m 34s):
But that summer, right before high school, Raquel and Jonathan got together and it stopped feeling like a joke that they might just stay together. Jonathan and Raquel, both found being at home stressful. Jonathan was given up to foster care as a baby. His foster mom adopted him. He says she loved him, but she could be very cruel.

19 (40m 55s):
I was very, I held a lot of things in and the way I got them out was by sometimes punching a wall or punching other people, getting into fights or acting out in the classroom, you know? And for Raquel, you know, she was into school. Her, I think her outlet was doing work, you know, being in the books so she didn't have to think about it. And my outlet was thinking about it, being sad about it and not speaking to anybody and just being quiet.

3 (41m 23s):
I think that's called having no outlet.

19 (41m 25s):
Yeah. Having no outlet. Okay. But yeah, so that was our, our coping mechanisms.

20 (41m 38s):
We were best friends. I don't know it was great.

3 (41m 42s):
This of course is Raquel. Raquel is beautiful, driven. And just quick, she's the friend you want sitting shotgun when you're last driving Raquel and Jonathan were both selected for the field sin program. And for Raquel, seeing Fieldston was a revelation. She remembers specific details. The trees in the quad that the library was a freestanding building. She remembers walking up to it

20 (42m 9s):
And we get in and there are kids hanging out on the floor and like with their book bags and kids leaving their book bags, unattended. And like, this is unheard of. I mean, I'm sorry in the Bronx, you know, you don't leave your book bag on the floor and walk away. You know what I mean? With a, a Mac laptop inside, you know what I mean? That just doesn't happen. And you don't get to sit on the floor at the school in a laid back kind of like relaxed way.

3 (42m 40s):
Raquel says she had the following thoughts all within the first few minutes, these kids are free. This is what freedom looks like. We must not deserve to be free. And finally, I am really lucky to be seeing this.

20 (42m 56s):
I mean, it's one thing, hearing it from Pablo, but it's another thing. Seeing those things, you don't know how little you have because you don't have anything to compare it to. So I think it motivates you for me. That's what the connection with the fields in school did. For me, it motivated me

19 (43m 14s):
As for me, I didn't, I didn't feel like I was shit anyway and I would never be shit. You know? So I was just like, well, this is where the rich people are. Like, you know,

3 (43m 24s):
Raquel says, everyone felt bad seeing Fieldston, but Jonathan more so because he'd been taught to feel that way at home.

20 (43m 31s):
We had a lot of arguments about his mom, but like he knows now he saw himself through her eyes in a lot of ways. She made him feel very low at times. So I tried to love him and show him the support.

3 (43m 46s):
She says, she just told him over and over how special he was.

20 (43m 50s):
Yeah. Because he was, you know, he was, and he is, he's a remarkable man. And he he's very talented. He deserved what this world had to offer him, you know? And he had to take it.

3 (44m 5s):
That was how Jonathan went from imagining himself as a janitor to applying for college. Not because he saw Fieldston because Raquel saw Fieldston. Raquel wanted to go to a college where she could sit on the rug and debate with friends, laptop on the floor. By her knee senior year, they were both nominated for a posse scholarship. Raquel didn't make it past the first round. But she went on to apply to lots of other schools and got, got into Bard college with a scholarship. And Jonathan got posse. He got into Wheaton college in Massachusetts.

19 (44m 39s):
I think it was like a Friday. I think it was a Friday. They told they, they gave me that I had the letter in the mail from Wheaton. My main thing was who am I to be accepted into a college? You know? Wait,

3 (44m 51s):
That was your first

19 (44m 52s):
Thought. Yeah.

3 (44m 52s):
Did you have any moment of this is great. I got into college.

19 (44m 58s):
No, I was scared.

3 (44m 59s):
You skipped right past excitement.

19 (45m 1s):
Yeah. There was no real excitement. I was just like, alright, so now what

3 (45m 8s):
Did something change since, from November to, whenever you arrived at college where you started to feel like, okay, I'm a person who goes to college.

19 (45m 19s):
Mm. I, I can't really say yes. You know, cause at, at the core I still didn't feel like I was worthy. And when I got to college, it showed

3 (45m 29s):
Jonathan's first day at Wheaton, he looked up his course, syllabi and panicked. He couldn't afford the books. He also did not tell anyone. He couldn't afford the books. He just never got them.

19 (45m 41s):
I didn't do the homework. So I'm going now into a class where one, it's a different dynamic. Now I'm in Fieldston, whereas 12 kids to a teacher. And I'm the only black kid, you know, in some of these classes, I'm, I'm the only kid in some of these classes. So now I'm embarrassed to be the only black guy that doesn't do the work and fulfill that stereotype. So I'm not going to class. It's a catch 22 2 cuz now I'm still the black kid. Now that just does a couple to class and doesn't do the work on top of that. You know? But for me it was, I mean, what, what am I gonna say to these teachers

20 (46m 29s):
In the beginning? I struggled too. My first year I got like C pluses and like B minuses. It was like devastating to me because I was an, a plus student in high school. And we both were like, this is a lot. This is crazy. I wasn't expecting this.

3 (46m 48s):
And where'd you guys talk about that?

20 (46m 50s):
Yeah. We talked about it.

3 (46m 51s):
Somebody to,

20 (46m 52s):
It was nice to have somebody to talk about it with, because you know, my parents hadn't gone to college. Nobody could really help us. You know, we just sort of needed to figure it out together. We kind of troubleshooted some problems like the book situation.

3 (47m 7s):
Were you the one who told him that he should go to the library?

20 (47m 10s):
Yeah. Cause that's what I was doing.

3 (47m 13s):
It had not occurred to either of them that the beautiful freestanding library on campus was there to serve them and had a lot of the books they needed for free. But when Raquel panicked, she went to the student center and learned about the library and the inter library loan system. She told Jonathan 200 miles away who still had not asked a soul. And Jonathan was the one who was in posse. Posse scholars have a 90% college graduation rate. The program is full of supports for kids. Just like him. He had months of training from posse before he even went to college, he had a special campus mentor. Posse was calling him and sending him letters.

3 (47m 54s):
He was ignoring it all a few months into his first semester. Jonathan was barely getting outside of his room or his

19 (48m 1s):
Head. I need to go to class. You need to talk to somebody. And then there's another voice it's like, now you're gonna be embarrassed. It's embarrassing. Like anyway, you, you're not gonna have the money. So how is that gonna help? You know, asking for help is being vulnerable. You know? And the only person I was vulnerable with was Raquel. And sometimes I would just lie. Like, yeah, I did homework today

4 (48m 25s):
To

19 (48m 26s):
Her. Yeah. It

3 (48m 27s):
Was like, you started lying to her. Yeah,

19 (48m 28s):
Because it was too much pressure. But, and I don't, I don't, I just don't want help from them

20 (48m 33s):
Because I wasn't in close proximity to him and I couldn't like help and I couldn't save him and I wasn't trying to save him, but it was like, you know, I tried everything to sort of keep him afloat, even though I was, you know, barely with my head above the water as well, but we were floating and together, but he seemed like at times he were, he would drown and I was trying to help him, but I got to be, it wasn't enough after a certain amount of time, you know, he was tired of me pushing him. He sort of just, you know, I don't know, just kind of let go

3 (49m 16s):
Of you.

20 (49m 17s):
Yeah. Yeah.

3 (49m 19s):
In the middle of her junior year, Raquel let go of Jonathan. They broke up by this point, Jonathan was so far behind the school was warning him. He'd be expelled. He'd already been suspended twice. He did not respond to the letters. Did not tell anyone what was happening. Jonathan appeared to be unable to see how bad it was himself. He went back to school after Christmas break that year.

19 (49m 44s):
The way I found out that I failed out of Wheaton was by going back to the school and my roommate opened the door and he was like, yeah, man, they changed the lock. Somebody else is coming in as right then I was like, oh shit. And the Dean was like, you need to leave immediately. You cannot be on this campus. You need to leave immediately. I felt like I had to go to my mom and said, listen, like you were right. I'm not shit.

3 (50m 16s):
Jonathan came back to the Bronx, got a job at the front desk of a gym and moved back in with his mom. Raquel finished her senior year without Jonathan. She unfriended him on Facebook. But other friends she had on Facebook seemed to be struggling with the same things he had all the time. Raquel would see the same news. So and so flunked outta that school or this kid partied too much and got kicked out. Her high school friends were failing at college. One by one. Jonathan was not the anomaly. She was by the time she graduated, Raquel was the only person she knew of who made it.

3 (51m 9s):
Raquel is now more than twice, as likely as Jonathan to make it into the middle class, statistically more likely to be employed, to be healthy, to enjoy her daily work, to have a happy marriage, but most poor kids who make it to college do not make it to graduation. In fact, the number is shockingly low, less than one fifth finish in six years, there are swarms of researchers trying to figure out what to do about this right now. Education is the best way to cross class barriers. And in many cases, education seems to be the barrier. Pablo Muriel, the high school teacher who all these kids remember and loved. He knows this very well.

3 (51m 50s):
Just listen to what happened when I asked Pablo if he remembered Raquel.

11 (51m 54s):
Yeah. Que of course I remember her. She went to bar bar college.

3 (51m 58s):
Yeah, she did. She's a teacher now.

11 (52m 1s):
She she's already graduated.

3 (52m 2s):
She graduated and she's teaching.

11 (52m 9s):
Oh my God. I'm so proud of her. That's beautiful. That's awesome.

3 (52m 14s):
Pablo is Puerto Rican. He grew up in the Bronx in the projects. So when he told kids they could make it to college. It was credible because he did it. He graduated college. He went to graduate school, traveled the world. Pablo says it's important for kids to see someone like them succeed. But he also feels deeply ambivalent about playing this role. He still tells kids to go to college because what else is he supposed to do?

11 (52m 40s):
And you know, and it's sort of something to reach for. I didn't want them to feel like this is, this is it. And there's no way out. But unfortunately I'm, I'm gonna be very sincere with most of the kids that have graduated that have kept in touch with so many of them only a handful have actually they've been to Raquel Hardy's I just had someone visit me yesterday. Anthony went to Hampshire, got a full scholarship. He called me a year later and said, I can't do it. I'm sorry. I'm leaving. You know, Columbia university for university. You know, there was one young lady who was part of that program as well. She went to Fordham university and she was, she, she, she, she left.

11 (53m 22s):
She couldn't hack it. And we're talking about the Bronx, you know, former university, she couldn't do it.

3 (53m 27s):
Pablo says barred college, Columbia, these are field STS. And he imagines that. What happened to lots of his former students is probably the same thing that happened to them at Fieldston. They were dropped into a foreign land and asked to mentally, imagine themselves as belonging. That's hard to do. In fact, the entire project of Raquel's life has been trying to convince herself she does belong in this regard. She is a mental gladiator because this project did not end when she got into the prestigious college. It did not end when she graduated from that college or when after college, she landed an excellent job interview at a law firm to be a paralegal.

20 (54m 8s):
Even though I got my foot in the door by having a good resume and maybe giving a good phone interview. When I get in there, I'm like this, I don't deserve this. Like it's not, you know, the pay grade salary was above what I deserve than like, this is more money than either of my parents have ever made. Probably like, and those things go through my mind when I'm walking into a place like a, a place that I'm trying to apply for work. And, and, and so how could you convince somebody that you deserve it when you don't even believe it yourself? It's, it's like a reoccurring theme in my life. You know, I have to tell myself that I deserve this cuz I, I work really hard for it.

3 (54m 54s):
She has to ignore the fancy library that she did not get to enjoy in high school, the bad grades she got in college. The fact that she can't afford books. The fact that she's the only black kid in class, the fact that her peers in college already knew how to use a semicolon correctly, the Facebook stream of high school friends dropping out of college, one at a time. And the boyfriend who deeply more deeply than her believes the message confirmed again. And again, by all these things that he is unworthy, Raquel has to not look at the mountain of evidence that what she's working toward will not be possible. And instead has to repeat to herself. You do deserve this, you deserve this, you do deserve this.

20 (55m 36s):
And that's what I did while I was at Fieldston. And that's what I did when I was at Bard. And that's what I do when my job interviews. Now, that's what I do at work.

3 (55m 46s):
Raquel keeps waiting for the sense of entitlement to set in the bravado. She sees in her peers from barred. She can fake it, but she hasn't gotten to the point where she truly feels it. I mentioned this to Pablo

11 (56m 0s):
And I'm, I'm gonna be very sincere with you. I am 36 years old and I have two master's degrees and I'm, I'm all the dissertation at this point, I'm working on my dissertation now. And I still feel that way. It is something that will never leave.

3 (56m 23s):
This group of kids got their first peak over the fence a decade ago now. And Melanie, the girl who found it. So upsetting is a 15 year old that she ran away. She's 25. Now she's the same person. She was at 15, but there are no longer people around to tell her you are exceptional. You're gonna make something of yourself. What there is are customers in an upscale supermarket with red banners out front announcing luxury apartments upstairs. When you described being at Fieldston and seeing like these kids are gonna be doctors and lawyers, and we're gonna be the people opening doors for them and serving them. Do you feel like that's you now?

15 (57m 5s):
Absolutely. 100%. That's why I'm so ashamed of my job. I don't really tell people what I do for living. You know, I felt like we were there to service people like that. And that's what I service. I service people that definitely express that they're better than us and let you know, like you're not on their level. Like I hate telling people where I work, cuz I hate it's it's a supermarket. And like that's I really wanna shake that off of me. That's been like almost nine years of my life and I'm just like, I have to move on. I, I just really want out

3 (57m 44s):
There's this one thing I keep replaying in my head after talking to all these people, it's the story, Angela Vasos told me about Melanie getting into Middlebury. Do you remember that? The teacher from Fieldston, the private school, remember how vivid Angela's memory was?

6 (57m 60s):
And she says, Melanie, come here. Melanie goes up like 50 people in the room. She says, Middlebury accepted you full scholarship.

3 (58m 8s):
Melanie did not get into Middlebury. She doesn't remember this moment at all. But Angela does clearly even today she acknowledges it must not have been what really happened, but she remembers it. If a theory about this, I think Angela has this memory of Melanie making it triumphantly, making it because it is really hard to believe that Melanie would not make it. And I can completely understand that I met Melanie in November and I still call her most weeks just to say so what happened with your dentist, with your grades, with that meeting with your professor? I keep expecting there to be news.

3 (58m 49s):
Like she's about to get her big break or something and things will happen for her. It feels suspenseful, but nothing has happened for her for 10 years. I think it's some special brand of American pathological optimism that so many of us believe the story of Melanie has to turn out to be happy. And that if it doesn't something unusual has happened and not just, this is what happens all the time that the supermarket might be, be full of. Melanies

4 (59m 35s):
Hannah

2 (59m 35s):
Jeffy, Walt it's one of the buts of our program. It's now been seven years since we first broadcast this story Raquel Jonathan and Melanie all decided that they wanted to be educators like their teacher PLO. Murio Raquel's teaching high school in Florida. Jonathan and Melanie are both school. A and they both work other jobs as well to make ends meet. Jonathan is a coach and afterschool teacher. Melanie's not still working at the supermarket. She does nails and works overnight at target

21 (1h 0m 6s):
Investments. Always others got a door thread.

2 (1h 0m 21s):
What program is produced today by Nancy Updyke with Zoe chase on Cole, Stephanie K on Ajay, Walt Meki meek, Jonathan, and he bar Brian Reed, Robin semi an Alyssa ship. Senior editor for today's show is Julie Snyder editing on today's show from Paul tough and Joel Lovel production up from Simon Adler research up today from Michelle Harris music help from Rob Getti production up on today's rerun from Valerie Kipman stone Nelson and Matt tyranny. Special. Thanks today to Najib Gonzales, Keana Jackson, Nick power cargo Rees, Samantha quinone, Adam Edrick S Maxwell, Celine Greenberg, Josh Gordon Rashan solani Nancy Banks, Rebecca de Roger Dennis Lilian de Jesus, Elsa Shapiro and all the other current and former students from university Heights and Fieldstone who talk to HANA our website, this American life.org.

2 (1h 1m 6s):
This American life is delivered to public radio stations by PRX, the public radio exchange, same

22 (1h 1m 12s):
As always to our program's. Co-founder Mr. To Illa, you know, every year when Beyonce fails to win album of the year, Tori

2 (1h 1m 17s):
Walks out of our Grammy party saying,

5 (1h 1m 19s):
This is unfair. This is, this is, this is I don't wanna be here. I'm leaving. I'm leaving right now. I'm going home.

2 (1h 1m 25s):
I'm our glass back next week with the more stories of this American life,

21 (1h 1m 35s):
That's just how the other half lives

2 (1h 1m 54s):
Next week on the podcast of this American life. The story of a couple where he gets diagnosed with Alzheimer's and decides he wants to end his life before the disease goes too far, she tries to help him figure out how to do that. Legally, which in the United States is nearly impossible. They finally find a place in Switzerland. We hear this unusually real, very three-dimensional account. The entire experience they go through. It's really something next week on the podcast, new local public radio station.