0 (0s):
Support for this American Life comes from Squarespace. Squarespace is the all-in-one platform for building your brand and growing your business online. Get started with a best-in-class website template and customize it to fit your needs. Browse the category of your business to find a perfect starting place. Sell your products on an online store. Whether you sell physical or digital products, Squarespace has the tools you need to start selling online. Head to squarespace.com/american for a free trial. And when you're ready to launch, use offer code American to save 10% off your first purchase of a website or domain.

1 (33s):
Jail's been a flight attendant for years, does long flights to Europe and South America, whether they're on the plane for 10 hours or more, and it's such close quarters. And you know, customers can be so stressed out and get testy and she and her coworkers, of course, always have to seem calm and courteous. They need to totally control the cabin

2 (51s):
And at the same time give off this illusion of being servants, right? When in reality we are in control.

1 (59s):
It's stressful, she says, and it's easy for them to get on each other's nerves. Like with this flight attendant who was Jill's nemesis for a while,

2 (1m 7s):
She just talked a lot. I think that's what bothered me a lot. So during our downtime going into the galley, sort of getting away from people, it would just be incessant talking and it, it drove me nuts. And I think my silence would drive her nuts. So we didn't get along.

1 (1m 29s):
No question. Flight attendants snipe at each other if they're, you know, like in the middle of the aisle with the beverage cart.

2 (1m 35s):
We have to do it in a way that the passengers don't know what's happening. For example, she would say, can you get me some more Cokes from the galley? And I would say, we're out of Cokes. And she, to the passengers next to us, that sounds completely normal, but she knows, and I know that we're not out of Cokes and she's stuck behind the beverage cart. She physically cannot get there and get them for herself. And so it is, it is.

1 (2m 5s):
It's war.

2 (2m 6s):
It's war. It's this tiny little symbol of hostility wrapped in this little sentence about Coca-Cola. She might, she might try like, are you sure we're out of Cokes? Because I saw some back there. And I would say, no, we're out. She'd be powerless. Like if we have to do another beverage service, she might like take all the red wine. And so I have to ask her every time for a bottle of red wine, I have to, I have to ask her for something every time I need it. And that might be, it's these little tiny things that you, you would never know.

1 (2m 40s):
And then about two, two and a half hours into these overnight flights, Joe says, it'll be time for a sleep break. Some planes have special seats curtained off or hidden behind doors in special compartments or up secret flights of stairs in certain planes. There are crew bunks above the overhead bins. Who knew?

2 (2m 57s):
It's a very tiny little space, a literally above the overhead bins.

1 (3m 2s):
So Joe would sometimes have to go to sleep with her enemy, with the nemesis. And she says, the dysfunction on the rest of the flight, they really do need to sleep. No kidding. And so they both know it's

2 (3m 13s):
Truce. There is no disturbing the other person's sleep at all. I learned to not toss and turn, not clear. My throat just be very still. I imagine myself like a vampire in a coffin so that I'm not disturbing the other person, even if I hate them.

1 (3m 31s):
And then they lie there side by side at peace, hurdling through the air at over 500 miles an hour. Each of them dreaming, presumably very different dreams. Jill does not know what the nemesis would dream about, but she has certain dreams only when she's in the air.

2 (3m 45s):
It's strange. I don't know if I should say this, but I do have crashing dreams on the plane. Strange. I don't have those on the ground. I wonder if it's the turbulence.

1 (3m 55s):
What happens in the crashing dreams?

2 (3m 58s):
Oh, you just crash.

1 (4m 13s):
But in our program, same bed, different dreams. We have stories of enemies sleeping together or working together or just stuck together in some way with very different hopes and goals, stories of deception. And star-crossed haters from W B E Z Chicago. It's this American life. I'm Eric Glass. Today's show is a rerun. Stay with us Equa Dream Weevil. That title's gonna make more sense as this story goes on. Just trust me on that. In 1986, a man and woman ran into a US embassy in Vienna and said they needed asylum. They were from South Korea and they told embassy officials this incredible story of kidnapping and intrigue and being torn apart and thrown back together and years of dreaming about escape from their kidnapper, while at the same time convincing their kidnapper that what they really wanted to do was stay with him.

1 (5m 10s):
Nancy Dyke has the story.

4 (5m 12s):
The woman who was kidnapped was a famous South Korean actress named Chay. He, I read a book about it by a writer and film producer named Paul Fisher. He spent years researching this story.

5 (5m 23s):
You know, she was compared at the time to Elizabeth Taylor,

4 (5m 28s):
Elizabeth Taylor. Imagine if Elizabeth Taylor passed her prime, but still famous from all her iconic roles, had just disappeared one day. Chay was that beautiful, that much of an icon in South Korea. And she was gone. She found out pretty quickly who had arranged this

5 (5m 46s):
When Chay was kidnapped in 1978, she was put on a boat and the boat went to Na Harbor in North Korea. And she actually has a photo, which is in the book of her very first meeting with Kim Jong Ill. He was there waiting for her off the boat with a photographer. And he had a photographer take a photo and then send it to her as

4 (6m 9s):
A sort of, you'll wanna remember

5 (6m 10s):
This exactly, remember that time. And he's,

4 (6m 13s):
Remember that time I had you kidnapped and brought to me,

5 (6m 15s):
And it's a terrible picture, and he's beaming and smiley and she's got her face covered.

4 (6m 20s):
For years, her family and her country didn't know where she was. This happened in 1978. Chay was in her fifties. And her first sickening guess as to why she'd been taken was that Kim Jong, I had brought her to North Korea to be a mistress for his father. The great leader Kim Ill Ung, who was ruling the country at the time. But no, it seemed that Kim Jong I himself was just a very big fan of cha movies. He put her up in a fancy villa surrounded by walls and barbed wire and armed guards. She called it in her memoir, Les Vegas meets v Lavasach Kim, Kim Jong, I brought her out to display at parties.

4 (7m 1s):
That was Cha's life for five years until one particular night. And one special party

5 (7m 7s):
Cha had been there for a while and she was standing, you know, somewhere in the center of the room.

4 (7m 12s):
And she was used to these parties by this

5 (7m 14s):
Point. Exactly. They were routine. She'd started sort of feeling repulse, Spiderman, but people got drunk and groped women. And then they went on forever. And somebody had already told her that, you know, this is gonna be such a great evening for you. And she nodded along because she was used to sort of hyperbole about everything.

4 (7m 33s):
She had no idea that Kim Jong I that night was planning to show off for the first time another person. He had acquired the man who had directed or produced almost all of CHAI's movies. Her ex-husband Shin sang AK Shin and Chai each didn't know that the other was also in the country. Shin had been brought there the same way Chai was, but he tried to escape twice. So he was thrown in a prison camp for a couple of years.

5 (8m 2s):
The best way to describe Shin, you know, Stephen Spielberg's, a sort of good comparison, a sense as well. He made films that were very good, very commercial, very popular. And he also produced other people's films, had his own studio. And you know, he was the most powerful, popular filmmaker in South Korea, arguably in all of Southeast Asia from most of the sixties and into the seventies. And Shin, you know, 10 days prior to this, he was still in a prison camp, got released and for 10 days in a villa, they fatten him up, tried to restore him to health. You know, he arrives at the party when it's already, you know, in full flow. And he walks inside and as soon as he enters, there's applause.

4 (8m 44s):
What an insane thing. Exactly. 10 days ago, you're in a prison camp, you walk in and you're the life of the party. Everyone's applauding.

5 (8m 50s):
Exactly. And in the pictures, you know, his face that looks eme, you can tell he's just going through something terrible. The suit doesn't fit.

4 (8m 57s):
Now Chay doesn't see Shin come in. She just hears people start applauding.

5 (9m 2s):
And she is sort of even unfazed by this, you know, anytime Kim does anything, people get up and applaud.

4 (9m 8s):
So she didn't know why people were applauding. She had no

5 (9m 10s):
Idea until somebody you know says, you know, why don't you look happy? Look who's here. And she turns around and you know, it's been five years. Shin's got the marks of having been, you know, tortured in a prison camp. She doesn't recognize him right away. And, and from that point on, Kim Jong Ill, you know, was pulling them together and they sort of shellshocked, hugged one another and then, you know, would then moved around like, like, you know, blocking in a, in a movie scene by Kim Jong l

4 (9m 40s):
What? Like, stand here, sit

5 (9m 42s):
Here, stand here. You stand next to me, smile to the cameras. You know, they were sort of the, the guests of honor,

4 (9m 55s):
Famous people don't get to pick their fans. Kim Jong Ill was a super fan who was also, unfortunately the son of the all powerful leader of a totalitarian state shin. And Shay had made their best movies together. Kim loved their movies and he wanted them to be a couple, just like they were in their heyday. So he arranged it Parent Trap style. He told them at the party that guess what, he had a newly remodeled villa for them that they would be living in from now on together,

5 (10m 28s):
Making a joke. I think he said something like, you know, the newlyweds are gonna want to be alone Now what a weirdo and had them taken to a car and you know, by all accounts seemed extremely pleased and expected them to be equally so. And, and you know, it's, it's the, the moment right after that, when they went back to the villa closed the bathroom door, turned the faucets on,

4 (10m 49s):
Collide in private privately, they turned the faucets on so they can whisper and actually have a private conversation.

5 (10m 54s):
Exactly. And they just asked for another what had happened. You know, the way she describes it is sort of a lovely moment where she asks him, you know, what happened to you? And he said, A lot, I'll tell you some other time. And, and he asks her what happened to you? And she says, A lot, I'll tell you some other time. And you know, shin kind of gingerly again asked her, you know, you looked very smiley and happy and I just, you know, have you been brainwashed? And, and she made a joke about how the director couldn't even recognize acting anymore. And they sort of, you know, both of them were finally able to be genuine with someone and, and you know, they spent the next several hours going through everything

4 (11m 43s):
Shin and Shay made a long-term plan and a short-term plan, long-term they were going to escape, but they would wait till they could do it, right? So they wouldn't be be caught. Their short term plan involved a small tape recorder, which they were able to get because one of the weird privileges of their captivity was that they were allowed to shop at a department store that sold things that were out of reach for most people in the country, like tape recorders. Kim Jong had long and short-term plans of his own for them. He told them that soon he would summon them to talk about his vision for their future. Then seven months went by and during those months, shin and Chase spent hours nearly every week in Kim's huge film archive.

4 (12m 30s):
He wanted Shin and Cha to see it and be impressed. And they were, Kim didn't just love their movies, he loved all movies. It was against the law for ordinary North Koreans to watch foreign films. But Kim had set up a massive bootlegging operation running in countries all over the world so he could build up his private collection with every movie ever made or as close as he could get. The archive was three stories high and heavily guarded. At least two screening rooms all for Kim only. And now for Shin. And Che Shin was bold over by every detail,

5 (13m 7s):
You know, the, the way the building itself was set up to run and, and you know, with admiration over how Kim had set up his own archive and, and how well everything was kept, you know, geeking out over the air conditioning settings and how he was preserving the cel and you know, how everything was cataloged and the staff and then how large it was.

4 (13m 26s):
How was it categorized? Was it by year or by genre or by

5 (13m 30s):
Director? It went by country first and then I think it went by year as they got them in. And then there's a lovely touch where, you know, the South Korean films in a kind of normal air conditioning room and then the North Korean films were in the most lavish storage and screening room in the whole building.

4 (13m 51s):
The films were dubbed into Korean after being painstakingly transcribed sometimes by Americans. There was an American defector, he was one of several actually who'd been there since 1965. And one of his jobs was transcribing American films, but just by listening because he wasn't allowed to watch them.

5 (14m 10s):
Yeah. And he wouldn't know that they were films cuz they gave him any other American defectors the audio. For some reason they chopped up the film soundtracks into different bits in the wrong order so they wouldn't know

4 (14m 21s):
What,

5 (14m 21s):
What they were doing exactly or enjoy them. But he had this experience of, of, you know, transcribing them and suddenly realizing, wait, this is Mary Poppins

4 (14m 34s):
Shin and Chay spent dozens and dozens of hours watching one movie after another in the screening rooms at the film archive and in their villa, which was also outfitted to show movies. They did that for months until finally they got word, Kim is ready to meet with you. They went and they brought the tape recorder

5 (14m 54s):
And the second they walked in, Chay had the tape recorder in her purse and she flicked it on. And I think unexpectedly Kim Jonel just talked at them mostly for two hours. You know, Kim Jonel spoke very, very fast and his mind sort of went all over the place and he had a very intimidating waiter slash bodyguard who kept walking in to, to refill drinks and empty ash trays,

4 (15m 20s):
Shin. And Shay wanted to record Kim for two reasons. First, they knew they might not be able to escape, maybe they would be killed and their children and friends would just never know what had happened to them, or according if they could smuggle it out, would at least be proof of where they'd been. The second reason to record him was that they knew that Kim would insist, they say publicly that they had come to North Korea on their own voluntarily Shin. And Shay were hoping that in their private conversation, Kim might admit to having had them kidnapped and brought to him. And he almost, almost did by making a joke in the first couple of minutes of their conversation, Kim talked about how he'd brought Chay over first in order to entice Shin to North Korea.

4 (16m 6s):
I say joke because Kim laughs as he says it, and then all three of them laugh. It's tyrant Management 1 0 1. If he laughs you laugh The rest of what Kim said in that conversation, well he said a lot of things, but the main thing was North Korean movies are bad and I'm sick of it.

5 (16m 36s):
They were making the same film over and over again and that they were too long and too boring and like history lessons and, and too melodramatic and, and he says there's too much crying. I didn't tell anybody to put in so much crying.

4 (16m 52s):
<unk> told Shin and Shay that he knew he was the only person in the country who could get away with saying what he was saying. And he told them not to repeat any of it. He said, when it comes to movies, we are in kindergarten and other countries like South Korea are in college. He said, if we don't catch up in the next 10 years, our movies are gonna be the worst of the worst movies in the world. The problem he said just between us is that people in North Korea had it too easy. They had things handed to them, they didn't have to hustle like Shin and Shay

5 (17m 28s):
Did. There's a point in the tape where he tells them that, you know, and I think, you know, he says, I'm gonna paraphrase a bit, but he says, you know, there's no incentive in socialism to do any better. You know, he says, my my screenwriters, you know, they'll write something, they'll get their rations, you know, the other guys make a film, they'll get their rations,

4 (17m 48s):
They get paid no matter what exactly, as long as they just turn out the

5 (17m 53s):
The work Exactly. And follow orders. And he seemed very conscious that, you know, I need someone who, who pushes himself more than that, who's used to having to do more than that. The Earnest Keep.

4 (18m 5s):
Kim Jong Eel never mentioned another possible reason why North Korea's movies were wooden and unambitious like fear. He, Kim Jong Ill had written the book, the only book in North Korea about the right way to make movies and think about movies. It's called On the Art of the Cinema. It's still in print. Everyone involved in North Korea's film industry in the 1980s had to have been aware of the potential consequences of doing something as unpatriotic or insulting as trying to realize their own independent artistic vision. Without Kim's explicit blessing and his father's, it was better to be crappy than sorry.

4 (18m 48s):
The conversation continued Che murmured that North Korea's citizens were fortunate to have a comrade leader who understood films so well. Kim Jonel agreed with his permission. The three of them got into critiquing specific films, a North Korean one called The Star of Korea. And while they were at it, a Soviet film called Mother it had a dying scene, they all agreed had been atrocious. They were three movie lovers talking about what they loved. And Kim Jong Gill's big plan for Cche was that he wanted them to make North Korean movies good so that they could compete with films coming outta the west and win awards and be shown in theaters all over the world.

4 (19m 36s):
He wanted Che to act in the movies and Shin to direct them. Shin could have his own film company just like he used to have Shin, wanted to call the company Shin Film a very bold request in the circumstances.

5 (19m 49s):
Yeah, nothing in North Korea had been called anything other than, you know, the Workers Paradise this or the Party this or the Supreme Leader this or you know, Kimel University. So it was a big deal, but it's also, you know, very telling of Shin that even in this surreal situation, his first instinct is, okay, okay, okay, okay, but can we give the company my name?

4 (20m 15s):
In film noir, someone is always using someone and often people are using each other and we don't find out till the end who gets away with what Shin and Che knew that their only chance of escape would be to convince Kim Jong I to let them film and work in the west. Kim Jong Ik knew that if he wanted good movies, he had to give Shin and Chai enough freedom to create them. So all three of them wanted to make great movies,

5 (20m 41s):
But same bed, different dreams. Kim Jong I wanted the films for his own purposes and they needed the films to get away from him. And it's almost like his ambition of making films at the world of respect completely overtook any sense of logic. So the first film, shin Nche shot had sequences that they shot in eastern Europe standing in for the Hague. And you know, they showed Kim Jon the film, he said, this is fantastic. It's like a European film. It's the best thing we've ever made. Allowed him to start showing it. And it never crossed his mind that they had done exactly what he'd forbidden his own filmmakers to do forever for a reason

4 (21m 24s):
They'd been forbidden to show the world outside North Korea.

5 (21m 28s):
They showed people things that they hadn't been able to see, you know, almost in a lifetime for some people in North Korea. By 19 83, 19 84 and a second, that film started playing in cinemas in North Korea. You know, the North Korean audiences didn't take in necessarily the higher production values. All they could talk about was that first 10, 15 minutes shot on the streets of Prague, where you know, oh, okay wait, the buildings look amazing. People are walking into businesses, they're all dressed differently, there's cars, what, you know, that's where really had an impact because up until then they had been told you are the luckiest people in the world. You know, the Workers' Paradise is the only place in the world where people have peace and freedom.

5 (22m 10s):
And, and suddenly they saw that that wasn't true.

4 (22m 13s):
How do you know that that's what people thought.

5 (22m 15s):
I was lucky enough to meet and speak to people who'd escaped from North Korea, who were, you know, varying ages at the time that they were able to watch these films. And there's another German researcher in, in Japan now called Johannes Chen, who's done quite a lot of talking to the factors about the same thing. And it's one of the things that's fascinating is that Shin and Chase films had a huge impact straightaway. You know, they, there would've been people in their late thirties who'd never seen anything of the outside world that hadn't been filtered. But it wasn't just that people suddenly were able to see, you know, footage of the outside world.

5 (22m 57s):
But, you know, shin and Shay made a film called Love, love My Love, which was literally the first love story in North Korean culture post 1945. There wasn't about love of the leader or love of the party, it was literally the first time people were able to go to the cinema and see something. And there was about two people falling in love. And it was the first time, you know, teenagers had pictures on their wall of, of Ama Idol of anybody other than the leaders.

4 (23m 24s):
Shin directed seven films for Kim Jong I. And then in March, 1986, he and Shay went to a hotel in Vienna for some film business, managed to grab a separate taxi from their North Korean minders, sped to the US Embassy and ran in, they were debriefed by the CIA and later by South Korean intelligence and they were interviewed by the Washington Post and other media outlets and stories about North Korea are always hard to fact check for parts of Shin and Shay's story, their recollections, their interpretations are all there is, but the movies exist.

4 (24m 4s):
The recording of Kim exists. Kim Jonel had told Shin Nche in the recording that when people ask them why they were in North Korea, they should say freedom for true artistic freedom for Shin. There was some bitter truth to that because South Korea at the time Shin Nche were kidnapped, had been a military dictatorship with very heavy handed sensors. Shin's Studio had been shut down by the South Korean government in 1975. His career was in ruins in North Korea. Shin got to make films again. He wrote unabashedly in his autobiography how much he had loved making movies there.

5 (24m 44s):
Shin always spoke of North Korea as the place where he kind of as the place he associated film freedom with and creative freedom with because he could ask for anything and get it. You know, he asked in one episode, he he, he asked for like a model train to blow up for a scene and he was given a real train packed with explosives on rails to blow up if you wanted to. And if he asked for a wind machine, he was sent helicopters and if he wanted fakes, no, everybody was flown to a mountain, you know, there's no expense spare. You know, Kim Jong felt like the larger than unlike film producer that you hear about. And he didn't have the downside that a film producer usually has because the film producer usually has to say no, every now and then, we don't have enough money, we don't have enough time.

4 (25m 37s):
Shin and Jay had remarried in North Korea at Kim Jong Hill's suggestion and it ended up being a real marriage. They were together till Shin died in 2006. They seem to have been each other's big love in life besides movies. Although Shin loved movies more than Che did, maybe a lot

5 (25m 57s):
More in their shared memoir of their time in in North Korea. It goes from his voice to her voice back and forth and kind of the second they start making films, her voice kind of disappears entirely and it's all his from then on and you know, it's about escaping but an equal measure. It's about making the films almost as if as he's writing a memoir of his time in Hollywood or something.

4 (26m 19s):
Cha's 88 years old living in South Korea. When Paul was researching his book, he interviewed her for it and he asked her about Shin in the movies they made in North Korea.

5 (26m 29s):
And, and you know, when I met her and spoke to her, you could sense the impatience that, you know, if she had had been able to get out of there three years earlier and not made any of the films, she would've been very happy to do so

4 (26m 40s):
And him not so much

5 (26m 41s):
And him not so much.

4 (26m 44s):
Even great love can't protect you from the other person wanting what they want.

0 (26m 57s):
Support for this American life comes from T I A A. Chances are your thinking about retirement and wondering about the what ifs. What if I don't make enough? What if I'm not saving enough? T I A A can help you create a saving strategy that addresses your biggest need in retirement income for life. Want guaranteed lifetime income after you retire? Let T I A A help grow your savings. Guarantee your interest, get lifetime income. Learn more@tia.org. Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association, New York, New York issues lifetime annuities Guarantees are based upon TIAA's claims Pain ability

7 (27m 31s):
Support for this American life comes from ncba, a contractor to the beef checkoff. Capturing carbon from the atmosphere is one of the most efficient ways to slow climate change. The good news is cattle can help sequester carbon naturally as they graze while raising cattle. Beef ranchers protect and conserve the land they have been entrusted to manage and that we all depend on. Without them, this land could be developed and the open spaces we cherish would be lost. Learn more at beef. It's what's for dinner.com.

1 (28m 1s):
Nancy Dyke is one of the producers of our show. Paul Fisher's book about all this is called a Kim Jong I production. We first broadcast this story in 2015. <unk> has died since then. Coming up people sharing beds, actual beds with very different dreams. That's in a minute. There's Chicago Bubble Radio when our program continues. It's American life from Ira Glass. Today on our program, same bed, different dreams. We have stories of people who are bound closely together. They are stuck with each other but with very different hopes and goals. We've arrived at act two of our program.

1 (28m 42s):
Act two, smell you later. There are all kinds of work situations where people very literally share an actual bed so they can do their jobs. These are people who share a bed that they are not ever in At the same time. This happens in lots of places. It has different names, shift beds, hot cheating. Hot bedding. Flight attendants do this. Their apartments with bunk beds that they use when they happen to be in that city. Guys who work on oil rigs and oil fields do it too.

8 (29m 9s):
We had, we have to swap out sheets every time that we're gonna, every time that we're going to go to our ship. Swap out your sheets and put my sheets.

1 (29m 16s):
This guy works in Carlsbad, New Mexico. When he had a friend first moved there years ago to do fracking to save money, they rented this small rv just like 15 feet long. One bedroom net. He worked nights, his friend worked days. They had a rule to always shower before getting in the bed.

8 (29m 32s):
The sheets. My friend's always been real picky on that. He always had a like color blue. I always liked red, red sheets something, something bright. So he, every time that I'd leave, he always had my red, my red sheets on. Every time that I'd leave I'd always put his blue sheets on and plus we never got the same sheets cuz we never wanted to be mixed up and stuff. I'd be pretty, pretty messed up spending him and he'd be spending me and stuff.

1 (29m 53s):
Migrant workers also have these shift beds in some places. Farms around the country in New York, dairy's the main agricultural product. There are over 3,500 dairy farms around the state and lots of them operate 24 7. So shift beds are common. Stephanie Fu went to see the shift beds at one of those farms.

9 (30m 12s):
I didn't see any cows on the farm and more surprising, I didn't smell them. Instead there were just sweet smelling bales of hay in a field with three mobile homes on it. Mexican music was blasting out of the closest one. My interpreter, Antonio and I knock on the door and as soon as we step inside, the stench of manure is overpowering from a few mud caked boots in the corner. It's a two bedroom trailer with holes in the floor and black mold growing in the cabinets and clutter everywhere. Roaches and jars of nescafe and sugar and cans of beans. Coronas, it's 7:00 PM and we're there during the shift change. There are four or five guys milling around all Mexican, all undocumented.

9 (30m 51s):
Some are just getting home and others like this. One guy Jose, are just waking up for work. Jose's shy, but he smiles a lot. He shows Antonio and me where he sleeps. Oh wow. There's a bed in the bathroom. Jose lifts up the bed's mattress and a wooden plank underneath, knocking over a jar of change. Oh wow. And are you in the bathtub? He joked that if he wanted to take a bath he could just lift up his bed and get in. His bed is a wooden plank placed over the tub. There are a couple of pillows shoved over the faucet so that the knobs don't turn and flood the tub while he's sleeping. It's happened before, Including the bathtub bed.

9 (31m 33s):
There are a total of seven beds in the two bedroom mobile home. Sometimes up to 13 people live here and share the seven beds sleeping in shifts. Jose explained how it works. No, there are no alarm clocks, no need for them. When you get off work, you find someone who has an opposite shift from you and you wake them up so you can take their bed. Jose says, okay, I get here at 4:00 AM and my friend is sleeping and I tap him on his blanket and it goes like this. Who is it, Jose?

10 (32m 8s):
It's

9 (32m 8s):
Five. It's five, it's five. And they try to go back to sleep. Let me sleep. And I say it's five. It's five, it's five. I say, okay, okay, it's

10 (32m 16s):
Five. Okay.

9 (32m 19s):
Then I get ready for bed. He wakes up and says, okay, see you later. I'll wake you later. And does it feel strange and intimate or did it at first when, when you had to share a bed with somebody? Yes, of course. Yeah. You're used to to coming to work and suddenly someone else comes and sleeps in your bed, in your blankets. You should see. It's weird. You flip your pillow over each time,

10 (32m 51s):
But

9 (32m 52s):
You get used to it, to everyone smells. We become friends. You know that if he showers it's fine, but if not, I understand because sometimes you don't get back until seven or six and there's no time to shower. I'm understanding that. And he should be too. It's fine. You get used to it. Really.

3 (33m 17s):
That's

9 (33m 17s):
What everyone kept telling me. You get used to it, to the hours, to the work, to everyone else rummaging around in your space. You get used to it. Jose and Antonio work seven days a week, 16 hours, three days a week, eight hours. The other four no overtime. I talked to a guy who's worked closely with many farms across the state and he described the pay and living conditions at the farm we were at as slightly below average. Jose says, it's not that bad, he says, other farms he's lived at have been worse at one. The roof leaked onto the beds and it was so crowded that he'd try to sleep standing up at another, he couldn't sleep because he was afraid that a drunk, violent roommate would beat him up in the middle of the night.

9 (34m 7s):
Here they get along if someone wants to bring his girlfriend over, the rest of them all cram into the other bedroom, even sleep together in one bed so that guy can have a room to himself. But mostly they're not too concerned about privacy. As I squeezed past piles of other people's toiletries and clothes and sheets and condom wrappers all over the floor, I was reminded of what a luxury it is to ever feel like you have a space that's all yours here. At any given moment. Somebody might be in the next room bumping the black-eyed peas off YouTube singing at the top of their lungs.

12 (34m 42s):
Here we come, here we go.

9 (34m 48s):
This is a guy named Antonio singing. He got really excited at this part because he knew the days of the week in English.

12 (34m 55s):
Monday, Tuesday, Thursday, Friday.

9 (35m 1s):
Well most of the days All this is bearable because it's temporary. They do this a few years, then move home. And Antonio tells me he makes more in one day here than he would in a whole week in Mexico and sends it all back. One man says he actually owns his own farm in Mexico with the zone workers and that he's working here to be able to expand it. Many guys have built businesses. One is putting two kids through college. Jose says he bought a big house for his girlfriend in Mexico. Another man puts it best. He says, every head is its own world I come from for my dreams. And he comes for his.

9 (35m 43s):
One of the things, Antonio, the guy who was singing dreams about is his bed, his future bed. He can picture exactly what his bedroom in Mexico will look like once he's finished building it.

12 (35m 55s):
So color

9 (35m 57s):
With a sturdy red floor. That's a color. I like the bedrooms. Each have a bathroom

12 (36m 4s):
With internet. Internet, Netflix.

9 (36m 10s):
What size bed do you want? Is it firm or is it soft?

12 (36m 12s):
King size? No

9 (36m 16s):
<unk> king size waterbed. It's the best. No,

12 (36m 22s):
That's

9 (36m 23s):
Why we're here. Antonio Cracks another Corona. It's getting late for him. He has to get up in six hours for his shift. I shake his hand, but before I go, I notice that I don't smell the manure anymore. I haven't smelled in a while. Actually. The air seems cold and fresh. They're right. You really can get used to the smell.

1 (36m 53s):
Stephanie Fu just a memoir about healing from complex PTs D called what My Bones know. It comes out in paperback this week. Her story was first broadcast in 2015 when it aired. Somebody who knew the managers of the farm apparently heard Stephanie's story on the radio and then talked to the managers like, Hey, that sounds like your place. And then the manager apparently talked to the workers and at some point in the Mexican consulate SNA guy in a car to help straighten this out. And soon enough chop chop new trailer, nobody shares bed, nobody sleeps in the bathtub anymore. Back three, the haunted becomes the haunter.

1 (37m 35s):
This next area is about two women who aren't sleeping in the same bed. They're kind of inhabiting the same body in a way with very different dreams. Micki Meek tells what happened.

0 (37m 46s):
Jess level didn't know she had a secret doppelganger until she got a phone call. Jess is a photographer and teaches photography at the University of New Mexico in Albuquerque. And one morning she was heading out the door for work

14 (37m 58s):
And I get this call and he identified himself as Inspector Kudo from the San Francisco Police Department Financial Crimes unit. And he immediately asked me, do you know a woman named Erin Colleen Hart? And I said, no. And he and why? And he said, well, did you ever give her your identification, your New Mexico state driver's license or any other identification? I said, no, no, I don't know her. And what is this about? And and I immediately thought of my wallet being stolen a year and a half prior at this gallery in San Francisco.

0 (38m 33s):
She never got it back and assumed it was gone for good. But now this police inspector was telling her that a woman named Erin Hart had just been busted using Justin's driver's license, trying to check into a San Francisco hotel.

14 (38m 46s):
And he said, look, I'll send you a police report. You know, she's in police custody right now

0 (38m 52s):
And she was in police custody because she had been trying to use your id.

14 (38m 55s):
Yeah, exactly. I don't know. I just kind of thought, that sucks that that happened and that's the ad and you know, whatever.

0 (39m 3s):
But then about a week after that, it became clear that Jess's license had been used at more places than just the hotel. A collections agency demanded payment from Jess for $500 worth of goods from a whole food store, unpaid parking tickets and televisions also started showing up in her mailbox. And then the rental car company hurts, began hounding her for thousands of dollars in charges

14 (39m 24s):
They figured out and sort of added it up. And it was all like three different cars that she had rented. So one, she just returned, another one she had clearly damaged. And another one she had had, like the boot had been put on it and like there were tickets and whatever's like I knew I had not rented these cars and yet they would not believe me. Like they would not believe me.

0 (39m 46s):
She was spending all her time on the phone and email trying to tell them in other places that she'd been a victim of identity theft. And then Justin got a summons to appear in court from Alameda County Court in Oakland. The charge against her was petty theft.

14 (40m 1s):
She was like really freaked out like this must be connected to her. This woman Erin Hart.

0 (40m 7s):
So she bought a plane ticket on a credit card and flew to Oakland. Once Justin got there, she sat around in a courtroom all morning waiting to be called up.

14 (40m 16s):
I was getting more and more ramped up, felt like a lot of people were getting taken away

0 (40m 21s):
Until she was finally the last person in the room.

14 (40m 24s):
And then the judge asked me, are you the one that sent this big pile of papers into me? And I was like, yes, those are all the documents. She's like, okay, I I've, I'm gonna look through them really, really quickly here

0 (40m 36s):
Because what was in there again,

14 (40m 38s):
All of the hurt stuff. And then the police report just to show like, believe me, this isn't the only thing. Like yeah, there's all this other stuff going on.

0 (40m 47s):
The judge dismissed the case but told Jess she should get the charge expunged so it wouldn't appear in background checks, which was gonna be a whole other hassle. She walked outta the courtroom and she was still completely worked up. How much was this going to cost her? Who was this woman and what else had she done posing as jessann?

14 (41m 5s):
I thought immediately like, I wanna, I'm gonna get to the bottom of this. I'm gonna figure this out. I wanna know what it was she did. I wanna know how she got my id, I wanted to find her, I wanted to find her.

0 (41m 21s):
This is where Justin's story changes from a garden variety identity theft case to something stranger. She had a photocopy of Aaron Hart's driver's license in the file she took to court. So she pulled it out and looked at the home address listed on it.

14 (41m 34s):
I had enough like drive just like adrenaline that I was like, I'm going there just like I'm doing this thing.

0 (41m 41s):
And what was the thing that you were thinking you were gonna do?

14 (41m 45s):
Well, I don't know. I mean, I, I seriously, I wish I could tell you I had a plan and I had something I was gonna say and I just didn't. And I remember thinking like, well, I wanna park close enough that I can run and get into my car if I have to. Like, not even kidding. I, I really did think that it was this huge, huge, huge choo apartment building. And I got in, I had someone went in and I just snuck in after them. Like, I'm going in, I'm, I know her apartment number, I'm gonna go in. And so I'm walking through the halls and I found the apartment. I just went up to it and knocked on it and no one answered the door. And then I'm relieved and I'm like, okay, well I have to leave.

14 (42m 26s):
And then I photographed the door, maybe one of the most boring pictures I've ever taken in my life. Wait,

0 (42m 31s):
Why? Like, why take a picture?

14 (42m 33s):
I almost wanted just to have the evidence for myself that like, you went there, you did this almost like, I mean I don't wanna overstate it, but like a tourist documents, like I kind of felt like I needed to have this pin dropped there. Like I know it sounds crazy in hindsight, it kind of does sound a little weird in hindsight.

0 (42m 58s):
Justin also went to the Hertz counter in San Francisco where three cars were rented in her name and the Whole Foods in Berkeley where she had a $500 debt and hotel Vitali, that's where Erin Hart got arrested trying to check in with her license walking in. Jess saw that it was the type of hotel she'd never be able to stay

14 (43m 15s):
At. And I was not prepared for how like fancy this place was gonna be right away coming in the door. They had like wine or they had tea. And the hotel staff immediately asked me if they could help me. And as soon as I said like this woman had tried to check in here with my id, the guy knew. And actually he said that usually when this happens. And I was like, oh, this happens a lot. He's like, yes. And when that happens, we asked them to leave and they leave and he said this woman didn't leave.

0 (43m 47s):
The manager knew Erin was a fraud because she got Justin's name wrong. When she checked in, she had a beautifully groomed Persian cat with her and was standing in the lobby insisting that the license was hers. That's when the manager decided to call the police.

14 (44m 0s):
So they arrested her and they took her away and the cat was just left there with her stuff. And they were like, well, I guess we'll have to call Animal Humane. And then she came a couple days later she was released and asked for a cat at the hotel. And they said, well we, I'm sorry, we sent her to, and she was really upset that they, that the cat wasn't there. That definitely was the first moment where I had any kind of sympathy for her. And they gave her the number for Animal Humane and then she left. And when I went to Animal Humane,

0 (44m 34s):
Wait, you went to Animal Humane to go track? To also track down the cat?

14 (44m 37s):
Well, to track down, see if she had been there. Okay,

0 (44m 40s):
Just

14 (44m 40s):
See if this, yeah, you know, and nobody knew anything about her, the cat. I mean, and so I just, okay. And I just like left and then I photographed the outside.

0 (44m 49s):
So Jess goes home to New Mexico, but she just can't let this go. She's still dealing with the fallout, fighting with Hertz in a few other places over bills. And she decides to do a bunch of things that most of us would not do first Jess sends a letter to Erin's address saying basically, I know what you did and here's what it's done to me. She includes an invoice for $1,200, the total cost of her round trip flight to California, combined with an hourly rate for her time. And then months later Jess finds herself back in San Francisco for work and she picks up Erin's trail again. She has a list of old addresses. Erin had lived at maybe 20 of them and she got from a private investigator and she starts going from place to place visiting Erin's old apartments.

0 (45m 34s):
At one point Jess pulls up to this gorgeous building overlooking the Bay Bridge. At the time, Jess was seven months pregnant and she thinks, well, maybe I can use this to my advantage.

14 (45m 44s):
I went to the front desk for the security officer and I was like, Hey, as you can see, I'm pregnant. I'm really have to go to the bathroom. I'm looking for my cousin Erin Hart, but I need to use a restroom first. Do you mind? And she was like, Erin Hart. Yeah, I know her. She used to live here. The woman actually knew her boyfriend at the time and she's like, God now I don't know for sure. And it's just, you know, gossip. But I had heard that she had had several thousand dollars of his possessions or whatever that she took off with and never came back. And I was like, oh wow, okay. Geez. You know? And she's like, well you, you know, you know Aaron or whatever. And I was like, oh yeah, totally.

0 (46m 26s):
Aaron's old boyfriend didn't live there anymore. So Justin took a few pictures inside the building and then moved on to the other addresses. All of them were dead ends. I mean, is there any part of you that is kind of feeling like a creep?

14 (46m 45s):
I knew it was cre. Like I knew that it was not like healthy. I did know that, but I could not let it go as just something that someone did to me that I had no control over.

0 (46m 59s):
Jessann hates feeling like she's lost control. And whenever it happens, ever since she was a teenager, she's dealt with it the same sort of way. When she was around 11, her dad abandoned the family, her mom and her three younger siblings. Then they lost their house and for a while they all lived in a van with their cat and dog. Her dad, he did some pretty extreme things.

14 (47m 21s):
My dad tried to have me kidnapped,

0 (47m 23s):
Like he tried to kidnap you or sent someone to,

14 (47m 25s):
He tried to have someone coming and kidnap me at my school and then again later in a park. And my family, we ended up going for some time up to Canada so that he couldn't find us

0 (47m 39s):
Later. Justin's mom got really sick and suddenly she found herself taking care of her entire family at some point as a way to deal with all the chaos. She started taking pictures, things like an ambulance, driving her mom away, screaming matches between her sisters, trash strewn all over their trailer home. She'd methodically document what she was going through and it gave her a sense of control. She continued to use her camera that way as an adult. At 1.8 years ago, she had a brief scare that reminded her of her dad, a random incident where she wondered if he was following her again

14 (48m 13s):
From that night on, I had it in my head. I wanted to find him, but I didn't wanna find him and talk to him.

0 (48m 21s):
What's the thing that you wanted? I just,

14 (48m 23s):
I wanted to see him. I wanted to first just find him. I just wanted to know if I could find him. So I did. I did a bunch of searching and background checks and Google stuff and he was about three and a half hours north of where I lived.

0 (48m 34s):
Justin was living in Oakland at the time, and her dad was just north of her living in a condo on the Mendocino coast. She started making covert trips up there and she never knew how to explain this to her friends. So she kept it simple and told them, oh, I'm going to spend the weekend with my dad, which technically was true, it's just that she did it wearing a blonde wig and from a distance.

14 (48m 56s):
Well, I had a telephoto lens that was really far away. I was like out in the woods, like I could get a mile or so away if I needed to. So

0 (49m 4s):
What did you see?

14 (49m 6s):
He was on the deck. He was out for a walk. He would go to the gym, taking out the trash.

0 (49m 11s):
And he never saw you?

14 (49m 13s):
No. No.

0 (49m 14s):
When you're stalking your dad or you're following your dad. I

14 (49m 17s):
Was observing him.

0 (49m 19s):
I observing him. And so what did that feel like?

14 (49m 23s):
Felt really good to see him and him not know I was there. Because why?

0 (49m 30s):
Because

14 (49m 31s):
I had some like knowledge about who he was and what he was doing. It was like a one way mirror, you know? Like I could see in and he couldn't see me, you know? And it felt like I had some kind of power.

0 (49m 55s):
I don't know much about the identity theft business, but I'm guessing that the ideal target does not own a camera that can photograph you from a mile away. Two years after Justin got that phone call from the police, she was still trying to track Aaron down. And in February, 2013, her private investigator let her know that he found Erin, she was back in jail and about to be released. Jess went with him to a jail in downtown San Francisco. She brought a telephoto lens and a video camera, and the two of them sat around in his SUV for hours waiting. Her PI had a contact who told them Erin might come out the back,

15 (50m 29s):
She gonna come up and pop out their back here. So hopefully

14 (50m 34s):
One by one people were coming out and the entire time I'm just like photographing, have this lens pointed at the door and terrified that she's not gonna come out. Okay, she's not gonna come out, we're not gonna find her. And we see

15 (50m 47s):
Her. Here she comes, here she comes. Is that her? Yep. Yes, that's her. Okay. We got her.

0 (50m 55s):
Erin Hart walked right past her car. She had a couple bags hanging off her shoulder and she was dressed Jess and thought like she was going to a nightclub, tight black shirt, shiny pants, and wedge boots.

14 (51m 5s):
Immediately I thought, oh my gosh, we, we do kind of look similar. She was a similar build to me, which is sort of, you know, tallish 5 7, 5 8. But like, you know, fuller figured wider hips. And I could see that she had a roundish face like I do. And she has this bright orange hair. And I just thought of my days and my teenage years dyeing my hair, that exact orange, like this super bright orange. And I just felt this uncanny like connection to her like I really did. And then from there on for the next several hours was just, you know, adrenaline.

16 (51m 43s):
She's on foot, let me call tail.

0 (51m 46s):
They had two other PIs working with them in a separate car. They all trailed. Erin, whose first stop was a convenience store where she went in to buy cigarettes and a lighter, she hung outside for a few minutes, smoking, then got in a public bus. Where

15 (51m 59s):
Is she going? She, Goodwill,

0 (52m 2s):
Erin got off right in front of a Goodwill store and walked in right

14 (52m 5s):
Away. Pete says, jump out and go in there, go after her. And I was like, oh, should I talk to her? You know, like I think I'm thinking, oh, okay. He's like, no, no, no, no, don't talk to her. Just just go in, get your photographs, get a good look at her. Just go, go, go, go, go. And so I'm jumping out like freaking out, like, oh my God, he's just leaving me here with her. Like what do I, and then I see Nate and in there,

0 (52m 28s):
The other PIs.

14 (52m 29s):
Yeah. I'm like, okay. So I'm looking at them for kind of cues and they're not remotely giving me any kind of like cues. And then I just go for it and I go up to her and I don't say anything to her. I just stand across right across the rack of clothes and the goodwill from her as she's going through, pulling clothes out, looking, changing her mind. Very expressive. Like, oh no, I would never wear that. Like, I could kind of hear in my mind like what she might be thinking from like her expression. And I'm at an angle where I feel like she's can't really tell what I'm doing. Like maybe I'm just checking my email or something and I'm just like looking at my phone and I take some photos of her. But

0 (53m 7s):
How nervous are you? I mean, you're literally, now you're face-to-face.

14 (53m 10s):
I'm shaking. I'm very nervous. Definitely. And I think there's a part of me that is still thinking I could just talk to her right now. Erin. Hey Erin. Like I could just say that. Like I could hear myself saying, Erin Hart, I know you'll probably probably don't recognize me. I know you don't know me, but I'm Laurel Jessann level and you use my ID to do a number of things. But I just, the, the power for me was in seeing her without her knowing that I was seeing her. And then she disappears into the, into the dressing room. And that's when the other PI comes over to me and says she's stealing clothes. Hmm. And I was like, what?

14 (53m 51s):
I just needed to get out of there. I was overwhelmed. I was feeling really, I was feeling really sad for her. And I didn't want to feel sad for her. I wanted to feel angry at her.

0 (54m 4s):
It was hard to maintain the anger because she was looking at Erin and remembering things she'd done when she was young and her family was broke.

14 (54m 12s):
I had shoplifted like nice cheese or like, I literally stole a roula. Like things that I thought and associated with class, middle to upper middle class. And I think that's what really was like giving me this sympathy for Aaron Hart was like, I could identify in a way with the desire to be someone else. Like I could see how a path in my life could have led to my being in that moment. I, I really could. But it was I guess a little disappointing. Like I guess it was a little like, oh, I kind of wanted it to be like she was a criminal and did something bad to me. Yeah. And it just wasn't that, none of that satisfaction of I got her, it, it was just sort of this weird transition and it anger was starting to be sort of like replaced with empathy.

0 (55m 10s):
What Jessann did next doesn't sound empathetic at all when you first hear about it. But for Jess, it was the logical end of research. She went through the hundreds of images she taken and she put together a gallery exhibit. It had surveillance shots of Erin, the court summons, police reports, bills and pictures of places where her ID had been used. She'd done this once before with the surveillance photos she took of her dad. In fact, her wallet was stolen while she was setting up that exhibit, which is what sent her down the rabbit hole of trying to find Erin in the first place. She called the new Show Dear Erin Hart, and one of the items on display was a sealed letter in a plexiglass box. She asked the people at the gallery to give it to Erin if she ever showed up there.

0 (55m 53s):
It wasn't a dramatic letter, just a way of telling Erin that she'd been looking for and wanted to talk. Jess didn't see putting Erin's name in photos out in public as revenge, but not everyone saw it that way. You

17 (56m 5s):
Are a victim of identity theft. Would you consider tracking down the thief and turning the table?

0 (56m 9s):
This is from the Today Show in

18 (56m 11s):
An act some have described as revenge level followed and photographed the woman who stole her wallet and then her identity.

0 (56m 18s):
I reached out to Erin Hart through her probation officer to talk about all this. I sent a couple emails listing everything Jessann says about her, but Erin never got back to me, so I couldn't verify whether she was responsible for bills Justin got from Hertz and Whole Foods, or any of the unpaid parking tickets and tolls, or whether she shoplifted from Goodwill or stole from her boyfriend. So Erin's secretly posed as Jess and Jess secretly photographed. Erin Jessann admits it's an uncomfortable thing that they have in common. Each of them is willing to invade someone else's privacy to get what they want.

1 (57m 3s):
Mickey Meek, it's one of the producers of our show. Like I said earlier, today's show was first broadcast several years ago. Since then, Jessann has become a licensed private investigator and continues to make art. Her most recent project is about her work as a pi, includes portraits of herself wearing different disguises, which she uses in the field. We thought we would end today's program on an airplane at some point in putting together this week's show, what occurred to us that an overnight flight really is just like this huge bed with hundreds of people all together, dreaming different dreams. And we asked people in two different flights like this to tell us their dreams and their daydreams and their hopes and dreams.

1 (57m 47s):
One of our staff was actually on a red eye flight herself and got on the plane's PA system to explain the premise.

19 (57m 53s):
May I have your attention please. Ladies and gentlemen, my name is Stephanie Fu.

1 (57m 57s):
Somehow being on the PA system, she started talking like a flight attendant.

19 (58m 1s):
I am doing the story about this flight.

1 (58m 4s):
David Weinberg and Jessica Ahmed recorded people as well. Here's some of them.

20 (58m 9s):
I was dreaming about old fashioned TV antennas. And then at one point I felt like I was shaking, and I'm sure it was cause the plane was shaking and I was, but I was trying to adjust the antenna

21 (58m 20s):
I was dreaming about. I was in a hot air balloon and I was yelling for my dog. Hey Katie, I'm up here

22 (58m 28s):
Sitting there like semi lucid. I was thinking of the horn puff and swimming underwater and how the little bubbles come out of their feathers when they're swimming. And then I thought of them as like going along in the, in space and creating stars, and then diving into the center of the galaxy. That's really

0 (58m 47s):
Trippy.

22 (58m 47s):
Yeah. Were you medicated at all? No, not at all.

23 (58m 57s):
I had a total nightmare. I was backing down a hill out of a garage with a friend and a BW bus, and we lost control of it and went down the hill and my friend turned to me and said, you know, I will never forgive you for this.

21 (59m 17s):
You know, everybody says, why would you wanna go to New York? You know, there's, you know, it's so big and why, you know, and I'm like, because you see all these things on television. You know, I, I have always wanted to experience a cab ride in New York City. We're gonna do it all. We're gonna do it. All.

25 (59m 37s):
My daughter's about to have a baby. So, I don't know, dreams, exactly the right word, but a lot of hopes. So her first baby, my first grandbaby, just to put it simply, I definitely didn't live it up to my responsibility as, as her father. And I had not been a regular part of her life up until she, she was nine. You know, I, I blew it. So I'm definitely not gonna make the same mistakes that I made with her, you know? So I feel like I've been given a second chance.

24 (1h 0m 22s):
I'm dreaming, dreaming away the time I've got ideas when they grab hold me, I settle.

1 (1h 0m 43s):
Well, Berg was produced today by Zoe Chase and me with Sean Cole, Stephanie Fu j, Walt Mickey, meek, Jonathan and Hiva, Brian Reed, Joe Richmond, Robin, Sammy, and Alyssa Ship. And Nancy Updyke, senior producer for today's program is Julie Snyder. Editing help from Joel Love research, help from Michelle Harris and Christopher Music help from Damien Grave and Rob Geddes. Additional help on today's rerun from Valerie, KIPP El Mustafa, stone Nelson and Matt Tierney. Special thanks today to Clinton Cargill, Sam Greenspan, Sarah Steger, Ian Shapiro, Alaska Aero Lines, Gonzalo Martinez Dilla, and the Worker Justice Center of New York. Antonio, Sarah Heto of Latino usa. Jeff Singer, Chris Crawford and CC Chan. Our website, this american life.org.

1 (1h 1m 23s):
This American Life is delivered to public radio stations by px, the Public Radio Exchange. Thanks is program's co-founder Mr. Troy Mal too. You know, you stop by the office today. Of course, wearing the same exact outfit he wears every single day.

0 (1h 1m 38s):
Tight black shirt, shiny pants, and wedge boots.

1 (1h 1m 41s):
I'm our glass back next week. More stories of this American life.

3 (1h 1m 47s):
Don't

24 (1h 1m 47s):
Turn. I am

1 (1h 2m 26s):
Next week on the podcast of this American Life. When David Sitter's cat died, his family helped him deal with the loss.

26 (1h 2m 32s):
My mother sent a consoling letter along with a check to cover the cost of the cremation and the left-hand corner under the heading marked memo she'd written Pet burning

1 (1h 2m 46s):
An animals attack Our Hearts Pet stories. That's next week on the podcast on your local public radio station.