2 (1s):
Support for This American Life comes from the Capital One Walmart Rewards Card earn unlimited 5% back at

1 (8s):
Walmart online

2 (9s):
2% in Walmart stores at restaurants and on travel and 1% everywhere else when you want all that you need the Capital One Walmart

1 (17s):
Rewards Card what's in your wallet terms and exclusions apply? Support for This American Life comes from Squarespace providing designer crafted templates mobile-friendly and e-commerce ready for a free trial of your new website. Visit squarespace.com American and enter American think it dream it make it with

2 (41s):
Squarespace. From WBEZ Chicago, it's This American Life. I'm Hannah Jaffe Walt sitting in for Ira Glass. Ira is here, but I'm taking over today show because we're talking about questions that I think are pretty fundamental to all of us at various points in our lives, but are especially pressing for me these days. I'd like to explain with a brief example of a situation I find myself in all the time lately with my two children feeling deeply lost. It's bath time Jacob. The older one is Running a Restaurant. He's giving out great prizes cups for grown-ups and also animals.

2 (1m 26s):
I want to have an animal. Jacob says if someone in your family is Christian you can get one of those ways is your mom or your dad is your brother or your sister birthday? No, they're all Jewish. He snatches the animal and says. Sorry, wait, I can't have any animals unless I'm Christian.

2 (2m 6s):
No Jews allowed says my three-and-a-half-year-old to my Jewish face. So here is my question. What am I supposed to say right here? Because I should say something. I should say that is not okay because why because I said so because you're a Jew because Jews Like Your great-grandparents Were driven from their communities by exactly the mentality. You've just expressed to me my three and a half year old boy or because we live in a majority Christian country, and I'm worried that I've clearly already failed to provide you with the Positive relationship to Judaism.

2 (2m 50s):
Or is the best approach not to say anything. He's just having a bath. I don't know as you will hear that sweetie. It's not it's not nice to say that somebody can't have something because they're not. That makes me feel sad though, sweetie. Well, yeah anti-semitic restaurant.

2 (3m 40s):
He says. They're kind for some people just not my kind of people the problem with talking to kids about anything that's actually important is that they don't know anything. It's your job to teach them about all the stuff that matters most but you have nothing to work with. They don't know religion. They don't know history. They don't know how to maintain proper hygiene also a problem. They're little and they have feelings so To be careful about saying well, let me tell you a story about a man named Adolf Hitler you would have liked the way you run your restaurant. By the way, we've all been on the kid side of this kind of conversation where a grown-up is fumbling through something that is clearly important.

2 (4m 29s):
The big one most of us remember is when someone told us about sex and on the adult side, whatever the question is, what is sex? What is God or what is ice? Isis what is transgender mean, you know in that moment that what you say could really matter could be the thing this person remembers and carries with them into adulthood could shape the way they feel about their safety or their sexuality these conversations are how we make our mark on the Next Generation. There are also very often how we learn how much we do not know and in today's show we're going to listen in as people take on three of the most difficult.

2 (5m 10s):
Things to talk about we're going to hear teenagers talking very frankly to each other about sex parents talking to their children about race and kids talking to each other about death this episode the birds and the bees was first broadcast in 2015, and it is full of people bravely facing questions that are still just as relevant and just as unresolved right now. We've got Jonathan Goldstein comedian W. Kamau Bell stay with us. Act One some like it not on the neck to begin I should say throughout this hour we're going to be talking about subject matter that can be difficult to discuss with children.

2 (5m 59s):
So if you've got kids listening, that's something to consider also in this next story. As Iris says we will be acknowledging the existence of sex and talking a lot about our reluctance to speak of its existence. Okay. Let's start With the beginning one way a lot of kids learn about the birds and bees is from each other the seven year old named Moxie told me a friend of hers is get Aaron said something to her that bothered her on the bus. He said if he drew a picture of a baby on a piece of paper and put it in her belly, that would make a baby Maxie knew this was incorrect. That's why I bothered her. So a week later at the playground across the street from her house.

2 (6m 42s):
She sat Aaron down the situation a bet the Paper networking thing. That's that means I'm about to few days ago. You talked about paper body and about I'm not sure because the baby can't survive you see. I'm just saying. Sorry, you need to make a farm and the sperm from how have to get it to my party. And that's how it works.

2 (7m 24s):
I did not know that well now you do sorry when it comes to sex a lot of us learn the wrong thing first and the right thing later you learn through a series of Corrections. You start to find out that half the things your brother told you we're not right. That scene in the movie is not realistic. That's Sophia De Santos was lying when she says she did that thing because that thing is not possible. That's basically our system. You learn things wrong test them out and hopefully get the real story from someone named Moxie this begins on the playground and just continues all the way until you actually start having sex and all the weird information that was not corrected begins to matter what you're hoping.

2 (8m 11s):
They're gonna cover.

1 (8m 13s):
They cover everything

2 (8m 14s):
DeAndre is in a classroom at Buffalo State with about 50 other people mostly men mostly his fraternity Brothers. He's here for some sex ed. I

1 (8m 23s):
feel like some stuff people don't know

2 (8m 26s):
I don't you know,

1 (8m 27s):
I don't know. That's a good question. You know,

2 (8m 30s):
this is a workshop about sexual assault and consent today. This kind of thing is repeated at college campuses across the country, but back when I recorded this in 2015, it was still pretty new a Monday night workshop and consent the room is packed. The students are wide awake knees are bouncing hands are shooting up in the air the instructor Paula magical is talking about the importance of consent consent is a verbal and enthusiastic. Yes. Okay. Why is it enthusiastic you want exactly you want to do it and sex should be fun, right?

2 (9m 14s):
Yeah, I hope so. This kind of Workshop was repeated in classrooms all across campus here and throughout the country in the last year college administrators are panicked about sexual assault as they should be so they're turning to this kind of education as the answer instead of mostly focusing on protecting women things like rape whistles or travel with a buddy programs. They also want to teach men actual sentences to say Do you like this? Can I kiss you but the students here are struggling with the basic premise. They have to learn to speak in this new way because if you don't your rapist because it's just more virtuous.

2 (9m 56s):
They have questions right from the start. It's a continuous process of checking up. So what are checking in either or what does that mean?

1 (10m 10s):
If she says yes, I'm not show you funny. But if she says yes, and then she you know, she keeps saying yeah, I got to be like hey you sure you know, are you really sure like, we about to do this? I'm almost there. I'm about to go to the Joy I get the you know, get the protection. No. No you right you right you right you right stop but but the keep the reaffirmation of yes over and over again. It kind of would mess up the So I feel like should they be a number of times that you should you know,

2 (10m 40s):
he presses them on this 2 3 7 but that guy is overtaken by his fraternity brothers who also have urgent questions does body language count as consent. What if she said yes before you got into the room when you were both sober like in a message on Twitter or something. How many beers is too much to have consent again, please offer a

1 (11m 3s):
number like you ever heard the term like out. Ho Hos liquid courage like what if it's in a sense a way it's like youyou probably nervous and you don't want to be nervous around her so that gives you that your liquid courage like I am not gonna be shaky when she come over you feel me so like you not using it together. Yes,

2 (11m 18s):
the next guy over interrupts what if both parties are drunk and then across the room does the girl need to ask for consent another student? Okay. What if we've been together for a year Paula Madrigal replies? You always need consent, even if you're a woman even if you're a man. Sleeping with men, even if you're in a relationship, even if you have sex every day, even if you are in the middle of sex or if you guys are engaging in sexual activity and maybe all of a sudden someone decides. I want to try it rough if you guys already started having sex so that the other person can withdraw that consent. Okay, so that's why it's active. What if someone's like I want to have another person here.

2 (11m 59s):
Now, let's have three people you're already having sex. So if all the sudden they're like surprised I have another person. Okay, you can be like, yeah, I didn't really sign up for that. I'm out of here. Okay. Does that make a little bit more sense when we talk about, you know checking in and the active process those are carefully chosen examples the vast majority of sexual assault on college campuses occur between two people who know each other and there's not always physical Force Sao Paulo is trying to say take the picture you have in your mind of a serial Predator rapist put it to the Quiet for a moment imagine instead a person who wakes up in the morning and wonders quietly to himself.

2 (12m 43s):
She was into that right? Yeah. She was into that imagine that person is wrong. The workshop was supposed to be 45 minutes. It's been an hour. Paula Madrigal is trying to wrap up. So, how do Do you experts? How do

1 (13m 5s):
you?

2 (13m 6s):
Ask for

1 (13m 6s):
consent. It doesn't sound right. It's like you're messing up the old mood when you see when you ask that.

2 (13m 11s):
It's been an hour and the students in this room are still fixated on this question of the mood. I don't remember there being a whole lot of mood when it came to sex in college. I don't know maybe you guys all had candlelit dorm rooms, but there is genuine Panic behind that question. It's dismissed in a workshop about sexual assaults because of course it is we're talking about a salt you're talking about the mood. Those are Are two separate conversations, but these guys are trying to have just one conversation about everything a conversation that takes into account consent, but also all of their questions and anxieties when it comes to talking to a person they're sleeping with it seems like that's a conversation.

2 (13m 53s):
They've never had that is one of the hardest things ever is to like try to find out how would you say like find out what the other person wants. This is najib Gonzalez College freshman. Buffalo I know najeeb from previous reporting he's lovely and like every freshman at his school. He's been to a consent training in the last year. I felt like if we're going to lay the burden of changing the way we talk about sex at the feet of 18 year olds people who are already many years into learning weird and bad and confusing information if that's our answer to reduce sexual assault. I wanted to know more about what these guys actually know and where they learned it men talk about with Amin all the time like I just thought it like my roommate always talks to me about like his favorite sex position or like and then my other friends would tell me their favorite sex positions and then we'll just talk

1 (14m 46s):
about. Oh,

2 (14m 48s):
that's cool. Let's oh I'll try that one one day or but that's men who are sleeping with women talking about what women like two other men that so it's just like it's more like a will decide. What women do or don't like when do you talk to women? About what they like hmm. Yeah. Okay. It's definitely men. Talk to men about what women like that's how I feel like that's how it is. Even if you get told by a woman What She Likes

1 (15m 16s):
you'll be like, oh, I knew that

2 (15m 20s):
lately najib's biggest source of information is his roommate Elijah Leslie brought Elijah up a lot. Elijah says, he first learned about the birds and bees from his cousin then you get older than you see, you know Sports Illustrated and you You see The Playboy's and you see the porn and then you see the girls gone. Wild. Then you see those late night. The girls gone wild the late-night commercials and stuff like that like three like 4:00 in the morning girls go. Wild that like, I think I think that's what when you start learning Elijah was not the first or the last person I interviewed who told me who learned about sex from porn. So najib is learning how to engage with women from other men who are learning from One that's like learning Chinese from a white American and Wyoming.

2 (16m 11s):
You're missing some key primary source information. Every person I talked to who works on sexual assault prevention brought up one thing as particularly troubling about the way men learn about sex and it wasn't porn. It was baseball that we talk about sex like it's baseball getting a home run as a metaphor for sex. They said think of how many bad lessons are built into that metaphor you go. First base second base Third Base. There's only one direction. To move and a home run is a win not to mention your on opposing teams its competitive and it's a sport that mostly only men play najib Gonzalez is not attached to sex being like baseball or porn.

2 (17m 3s):
The jib just wants to be a good person. He wants to be good to people. He's looking for some guidance. Najib is always looking for guidance. He solicits advice often. This is an example. I remember my cousin telling me like, you know, You gotta kiss a girls night. You gotta kiss you girls neck.

1 (17m 23s):
Like I do it all the time. Like my girl loves it

2 (17m 27s):
and stuff like that. So then that's like kind of where you learn najib ever the careful student kissed necks every one of them another friend told him women like it when you're funny he tries to be that but then najib had a girlfriend who told everybody he was a bad kisser and someone told them please stop kissing my neck. She thought it was gross and he felt like wait do I know things or do I not know things? Definitely when you're younger like you think of it more as like rules and steps to get to your like to get laid when you're younger you think like, oh, it's I have to do this step. I have to follow this step.

2 (18m 7s):
So I have to kiss her in this certain place. Then I have to make out with her and I have to I don't know touch her like, I don't know. I don't know. Grab her butt or something. And then finally we get here but it's not like that for it's not like that at all like it's less it's very I don't know if it varies is

1 (18m 28s):
different from person to

2 (18m 29s):
person. It's is it could be anything? I don't know the girls like girls very that not every girl would like something that you do every girl is different. Everyone is different girls. Very people very what if that was the first thing you learned about sex What If instead Of starting at 18 years old with rape and moving backwards to teach consent. What if you just started with people very because if you understand that consent follows, you have to ask questions and talk about what you like and don't like. Otherwise you'll never know. You may be with one of those neck people and you may not For the rest of today's show.

2 (19m 17s):
We're going to leave sex behind and we are going to step forward from the beginning of Life to the murky complicated middle the other facts of life that you really don't want to have to explain to children because you wish they were not facts or a part of life at all. Our next story is from W. Kamau Bell. He's a comedian and a dad and in 2015 come out had been planning for a conversation. He really did not want to have with this. One that is familiar to black parents everywhere in America Act Two If you see racism say racism, here's Kemal

1 (19m 55s):
I talk about race and racism in my act a lot. Some would say too much. It was how I was raised. Some families have hardware stores. My family has thinking about racism. So it's no surprise to me that after I became a parent. I began to do jokes about race and racism and fatherhood and people ask me all the time. Like you're black you talk about race a lot and have you talk to your daughter about the fact she's that she's black. I'm like no because she's three and a half. I don't want to bum her out yet. You know what I'm saying? Like being black is great, but it's like a big responsibility to know that my mom when I was eight for she told me I was black and she did it the right way when I she's like tonight for dinner. You can have whatever you want. I was like, yeah, she's like you can stay up all night and watch TV.

1 (20m 36s):
I was like Yay and your black I was like, hold on a second that explains everything. I thought every day. I was just kind of Today, it's good to know. Why now, it's good to know. There's a historical context for that. I now have two girls a baby named Juno and an almost four year old named Sammy. My wife Melissa is white and Sammy calls herself peanut butter. Do you know that there's a much anything yet? My wife and I have both put our toes or at least our older daughter Sammy's toe in the race pool, but we have not even put the slightest hint of a Sammy toe into the racism pool. Yes. Those are separate pools. The race pool is filled with positive stories of black achievement African American Role Models books and TV shows featuring diverse characters are race pool even has Kwanzaa, but Sammy's racism pool is completely drained with a lock on the gate and we run past it every day on the way to the race.

1 (21m 34s):
And every day that goes by I feel guilty. The racism pool is treacherous. It's not fun to swim in and if you aren't careful you drown in the sorrow of the black experience in America. Damn. We live in Berkeley people have been protesting the police blocks from our house. How do I explain that? This was on my mind recently how to teach Sammy about racism when this thing happened. It was January 26th, my birthday. I was having a low-key celebration just like I like them. I was carrying a children's book. I just bought for Sammy the case for loving the fight for interracial marriage Mildred and Richard loving our the interracial couple responsible for the Supreme Court striking down the laws in 16 states that banned interracial marriage and if I was going to get into racism with Sammy, then the Having story which was about a family like ours seemed like a great place to start.

1 (22m 29s):
I was headed to meet up with my wife at the Elmwood cafe or restaurant. She loves this was her second time eating there that day after we'd gone there earlier for breakfast. It's not really my kind of place flooby-doo impressed with itself Aloo to Humble brag about his lattes served in bowls. So I get to the end with Cafe and I see my wife sitting at one of their sidewalk tables with our baby and three other moms and their babies before mom's all look like they would go out for the same casting call for a white woman mid 30s who's recently had a kid and while exhausted is doing a great job of keeping it together. My wife introduced me to the group. We made small talk. One of the women asked about the book in my hand. So I turned it over and showed it to her.

1 (23m 9s):
She nodded at the cover. I didn't get the sense. She knew the story. That's what I heard. Knock knock knock it was on the Cafe's window coming from inside. I looked up and saw a woman a server who clearly worked at the only Cafe and she was angry. And looking at me next he flicked her head and mouth something. I didn't know what but the message was clear get or maybe it was scram. Seriously. What's the difference? I was flooded with thoughts. I could barely process. I was stunned. I was pissed.

1 (23m 51s):
I wanted to run away. I felt like I might pass out. I was actually strangely embarrassed as if I had done something wrong. Maybe I shouldn't have been talking to my wife and her friends. Listen, I might have exchanged words. We might not have I think I said something to the effect of a woman told me to get out of here. There was some real he's and a couple of what's within seconds. Another server came out and pretended to do her job. She didn't have a water jug. She didn't bust any tables. She didn't drop or pick up any checks. She just stuck the area and by the area, I mean me finally Melissa couldn't take it. This is my husband.

1 (24m 31s):
Oh the waitress said looking at nobody in particular. We thought you were selling something. She thought I was selling something. That's my wife. And my daughter I said we just ate here earlier today. We thought you were selling something. She said sorry in Berkeley selling something is code for homeless what she was saying was we thought you were home. First of all, I was wearing a knit cap a hoodie jeans and sneakers. I was dressed like Mark Zuckerberg and winner. But I knew the part of me that look homeless wasn't my clothes.

1 (25m 12s):
It was my skin specifically how my skin was getting so close to a bunch of white moms and their white babies, but Juno only looks white. She's a double agent wages again. I'm sorry me I bet you're sorry. Okay, I'm gonna take a walk and think about racism. That's actually what I said. I didn't yell it but I didn't say it into my chest either. Melissa stayed behind to give the waitress a piece of her mind then we went home and Melissa cried we hugged each other and were preoccupied with it really bothered really obsessive and stuck in it.

1 (25m 55s):
We knew we had to do something I blogged about the whole thing and posted a picture of myself wearing exactly what I'd worn when I was at the Elmwood and also holding my book on the lovings. Within a couple hours of story it spread around the Bay Area people online started debating every single point people debated whether what happened was racist whether or not I was racist people blame me for marrying a white woman, it became the righteous indignation story of the week. It's hard to know what to want after something like this happens. I didn't want an apology from the owner though. We got one. I didn't want the waitress to be fired though. She was Melissa and I wanted something more substantial.

1 (26m 38s):
We wanted a public conversation between us and the cafe owner and the employees involved. We wanted the community to show up and talk about their experiences with things like this. We wanted a reckoning and we found out a lot of people wanted that. So many people wanted to discuss the Elmwood Cafe that our idea to have a public discussion snowballed. So with our daughters and our mind before I could say Rosa Parks, we had a venue and an event planner the cafe owner was there and the full on panel of vetted academics and activists. There was a detailed itinerary and the moderator.

2 (27m 15s):
So I'm sure that many of you have heard the story of the incident that happened on January 26

1 (27m 21s):
on a Friday in March. Listen. I sat on a stage at a middle school in a packed Auditorium Are my main concern was that somehow all the planning and structure was going to lead to an event that was careful sanitized and maybe the worst thing boring. It wasn't due in large part to two amazing women on the panel Khadijah means who get to in a minute, but first Micky Jones,

2 (27m 44s):
okay, I'll put on my professor voice

1 (27m 47s):
Nikki Jones teaches at UC Berkeley. She said something that for me made sense of the world not just about the small racial injustices that happened in cafes. But the bigger deadly ones that are happening all around America. She asked us to think of the world in terms of black space and white space credits Elijah Anderson for this Theory, but tonight she made it her main point. Nicky says people have ideas about black spaces. It's tied to Blackness and poverty in the ghetto. It's impossible to say the word ghetto in America without thinking about black people see a black man in a suit. Your brain does a calculus. What poor neighborhood. Did he or his parents, right? About of or his parents parents it all goes back to the

2 (28m 30s):
ghetto. Right and the ghetto itself is believed to be carried on the bodies right on and in black people, right and that presents special dilemmas went black people are in white space. And what's white space just about everywhere else,

1 (28m 46s):
right? She says UC Berkeley where she teaches white space almost all education public and private whitespace move. The theaters restaurants some of my own stand-up shows. I'm looking at you Spokane white space public radio white space and of course the Elmwood

2 (29m 7s):
Cafe, so in these white spaces black people have a special burden and they face a number of dilemmas. They have to prove that they belong there the burden is on them to prove that they belong in a particular space. Now. Let's go back to the incident Who belongs in that space. What is the presumption about what Kemal is carrying on his body?

1 (29m 30s):
Of course not belonging can work both ways a white person in a black space lacks a similar trustworthiness, but think of how rare it is that a white person goes to a black space like a tourist in another country. You can leave whenever you choose. but the highlight of the night High School senior Khadija means He's 18 and made a name for herself in the Bay Area as an activist. She's an awesome public speaker who importantly to me. Now, is that an open with a

2 (30m 4s):
joke? So number one. I want to say that I've been black all of my life. That's a pretty good amount of motivation for me to be a social justice Advocate

1 (30m 17s):
and then she said something that made me take extra notice. She talked about being younger than my daughter Sammy when she learned about

2 (30m 22s):
race. I learned about race at a Young age maybe like two or three. My dad has a really good way of teaching about like fractions when he would make me toast you would cut it in half and be like this is half. This is 1/4 but I learned about race and I kind of similar way learning that white didn't mean white like paper, but it was a construct. Yeah. I learned that pretty young that was weird.

1 (30m 49s):
My oldest daughter is 4 she has just begun to understand that people are different colors. I can't imagine somehow connecting that to the fact. Act that race itself is a construct. I'm not sure I could Define the word contract to another adult. Let alone a four-year-old.

2 (31m 3s):
About

1 (31m 4s):
how Khadija then closed with a few tips on how we can all be less racist like this one

2 (31m 9s):
Focus Less on color blindness because honestly, you're not going to get a gold star for that. Be more color competent. Be more and this one, please don't call people articulate. Don't come up to me after I tell me afterwards. Please do not do that. And there's a whole bunch of reasons why that we don't have time for

1 (31m 29s):
but I might want to grab a pen and some paper because she's on a

2 (31m 32s):
roll your mind makes generalizations. That's what it does. It's not bad to do that. It's bad to think that that one generalization is what everyone is. You also have to take a step outside of that and remember that people are individuals people have different lives just because I'm black doesn't mean I act like other black people black people built this country whether you like it or not. Love us, please. Thank you.

1 (31m 56s):
I'm not sure how it's ready for I was so impressed by khadisha. I began to think about her dad the one who taught her about fractions and race. Khadija was completely versed in the evils of racism. But she was also idealistic about the future. She understood how well-intended people could do racist things. But how that doesn't always make them bad people. She got the broad strokes and the nuances and Khadijah also knew how to do something that is absolutely essential to your survival as a black person in America. She saw an identified racism in her everyday life and she didn't internalized it but she also didn't ignore it. She just Judo flipped it and kept walking. I wanted some advice on how to raise a kid like that who was his dad I imagined him to be a mix of 60s era Berkeley hippie and hope and change are Obama.

1 (32m 45s):
I don't smile a lot. So I'm Not The Smiling black man. Yeah, that's Cliff means he's a self-described businessman who means business. I like to imagine that his business card reads on one line Cliff means and under that business. In fact, when we ask Cliff to do the interview initially, he said, I don't know you I don't know your audience. So no so when my producer robbed and I met with cliff and Khadijah. I knew he was still reluctant, but I wasn't sure what to change his mind. I had to ask why are you doing this interview? Then get easier really want me to do this is the bottom line now had I found out anything to horrific about either one of you then it probably still would have been no, but I couldn't find anything.

1 (33m 33s):
Terrible. Well, I'll take one thing that leaned in your favor. I did read something written by you because I'll try and do as much homework as I could because my answer would really know and you're writing had made enough white people. Angry. That's it. Okay, maybe he's actually trying to do something. So it's clear the cliff is not exactly a why can't we just get along type of guy and he has very clear thoughts about what should be taught to kids. How old it was Khadija when he first started explaining race to her I would imagine for five years old. She was an early talker. We spent a ton of time together to ask her. Does she want to enter a speech for the Martin Luther King celebration at her school and we co-wrote a speech that people were very enamored with and I explained to her that Martin Luther King wasn't killed for I Have a Dream speech, but once he started talking about getting poor whites and poor blacks together, then he had to go.

1 (34m 31s):
But my children I talk to you will be going to school and you you will be getting told that there's Justice for All and then when you find out there's not then you'll be confused and I don't want my children confused. I want them knowledgeable. So and at what age did you get into the history of black people in this country like and have to cover things like Kris over rights movement like Jim Crow and slavery and things like that. At 5:00, I'll talk about slavery and I taught it as what it is that Europe went to war with West Africa first centuries kid used to love Native Americans when I was kicking they fought back. Why do black people thought about what they did and we're slaughtered and terrorized and tortured and murdered and raped.

1 (35m 15s):
I probably left out rape at that age for her captured kidnapped and brought over Africans to America and they were here terrorized and And we go from that stage all the way to being here enslaved. He thought of that at five Cliff is clearly not afraid to throw his kids into the deep end of the racism pool and let them learn to swim. This is pretty much the opposite of what I had done so far how deep did their racism pool get she learned things like white officers following the black migration to Northern California to work in the shipping yards and Southern California shipyards. Hey, we better bring some this is why cops here to keep these people in line.

1 (35m 57s):
She learned that there were you know, black Cooks grinding up glass in the kitchen to make sure that white racist brutal slave masters intestines would bleed and be open and he we be gone or is your question. Do you want the church thing brought up at all? It's fine. That's good decision. I don't know what the church thing is, but I can tell it was one of those family stories. Could you let my producer Robin and I and on

2 (36m 31s):
it after my dad told me about racism. I distinctly remember like being angry with white people. Like how dare you enslaved my people. And so we were at church one day. And

1 (36m 49s):
it wasn't actually a church. It was a church function. It was in the church. It was a church function hail with

2 (36m 56s):
after so I guess I went up onto the pulpit and asked for the Mike and I told the entire congregation that black people and white people should not be together. And that was my synthesis of like racism in America and slavery that I had come up with throughout the week after my dad. Told me about racism. We're saying he became a five-year-old segregationist. I did I

1 (37m 23s):
did in my house. We can't have a five-year-old segregationist. I mean don't get me wrong. It'd be fun for a bit and the kids say the darndest things kind of way. I ran a version of what Khadijah said in church, but my wife Melissa as a hypothetical, what would you do if Sammy told you white people and black people can't be together. It would be an immediate investigation Melissa would ask what makes you say that? Why do you think they Can't be together. And yes, okay why people did hurt your people, but also Mommy and Daddy are together and that's good, isn't it? It would be a conversation with me. It would be a conversation with Sammy every day all the time. I asked Cliff how he felt about Khadija speech at church.

1 (38m 6s):
Like well, she learned what she learned that's probably a healthy reaction for having done what she learned this week. I think the audience was a little surprised Mike was there. Was there a white person her life that you felt like, oh, she thinks that about all white people then she's going to hate this one white person who's actually, you know a nice person. Oh, no, absolutely not. I'm not concerned about the white man in America. I think he's doing very well and I had no concern nor do I now have any concern for anyone's feelings or whatever else being hurt by five-year-old. Maybe I could start a conversation with them. They can think about some of the things that they enjoy that no one else enjoying this country. So, I

2 (38m 45s):
know

1 (38m 52s):
I really like cliff Cliff is not an easy person. But then why should he be easy Cliff is the type of person who keeps the rest of us a little more honest. I want more cliff in my life. Khadija told me that even with her candid unfiltered upbringing she could tell early on the difference between white oppression and the white people in her life, but to be able to do that. She had to learn about it and get angry. I get that when I first began to really understand the violence of racism. I was angry Make sense to be angry the anger helps you push back against the Injustice angers, not the goal. It's the fuel even so sometimes I feel like I have too much anger.

1 (39m 36s):
There are black people in America dying from racism bad treatment in a fancy coffee shop is the softest and easiest part of racism. There were times during this whole thing. I felt like I should just drop it cliff and I talked about that to being told to leave a cafe on College Avenue. That's not a big deal on a base. Asic level but I knew that you can't just keep letting your boundary get pushed. I'll let anything go I don't let anything go don't shake my hand. Like you're black or something you shake my hand like a white man. You shake my hand like you're shaking, but you don't relate to me. Don't let anything go right back into the message of the day that that's what I feel but I never put in those words.

1 (40m 17s):
Those are the words I was looking for don't let anything go. Racism is real and happening right now every day. That means that every day. I have an opportunity to teach my daughter's about racism. So this is to you Sammy and you know, I promise you from now on I'm not going to let it go. The stakes are too high.

2 (40m 46s):
W kamau Bell, he's the host of United shades of America on CNN in the years after we first broadcast this Elmwood Cafe closed Gwen suddenly. It happened shortly after a Starbucks employee in Philadelphia called the cops on two black men. You may remember this got national attention the men had been sitting in a Starbucks and they they were arrested. Coming up a group of grown-ups who are not fumbling at all. They have a plan and it includes costumes volcanoes and a Talking Stick that's in a minute from Chicago public radio when our program continues Support for This American Life comes from the

1 (41m 33s):
Capital One Walmart rewards card

2 (41m 36s):
with the Capital One Walmart Rewards Card. You'll earn unlimited 5% back at Walmart online. That's 5% back at Walmart online when you grab new shades for your beach

1 (41m 46s):
trip new boots for your hiking trip or noise canceling headphones. When you need some vacation me time,

2 (41m 51s):
you'll also earn 2% in Walmart stores at restaurants and on travel and 1% everywhere else when you want all that. You need the Capital One Walmart. Ward's card, what's in your wallet terms and exclusions. Apply Capital One en a support for This American Life comes from better help online counseling

1 (42m 12s):
better help offers licensed counselors who specialize in issues including depression and

2 (42m 16s):
anxiety as well as relationships trauma anger and more you can connect privately with a counselor through text chat phone or video calls and you'll get help on your own time at your own pace and at an affordable rate for a special offer visit better help.com

1 (42m 34s):
tal that's better

2 (42m 36s):
help.com Tal It's This American Life. I'm Hannah Joffrey Walt sitting in for Ira Glass. Today's Show the birds and the bees we are listening in as grown-ups try to convey their most important deeply held beliefs to small humans who cannot yet zip up their own jackets. We started at the beginning where do babies come from in this last part of the show. We're going to talk about the end act 3 about that farm upstate Jonathan Goldstein has this last story and a Corning like I said at the beginning of the show, these are stories about grown-ups talking with children about difficult subject matter.

2 (43m 17s):
So if you have kids with you keep that in mind, okay, here's Jonathan. There's a house in Salt Lake City where kids come to have death explain to them. Not just that people die, but how they died. It's called the sharing place. And the first person they meet there is Jill McFarland. This is how she explains a heart attack your heart stopped working in couldn't move your blood through your body. She has a quiver full of kid-sized explanations for all the ways that life can end like kidney failure. Your kidneys are washing machines for your blood and when your blood they stop working in your blood sturdy, then it poisons your body and you die overdoses over Dallas is when you have a sickness in your brain called addiction an addiction makes you take medicine.

2 (44m 1s):
That's not good for you and you take away too much of it. But not all medicines bad either. Have you dealt with murder? Hmm. It's when somebody chooses to make your body. Stop working. It's a choice. We also do choice and not Choice like murder is a choice cancer is not a choice. We also do contagious or not contagious. Like you're not going to get my depression and you're not going to get my cancer. The sharing place is a grief support center for kids who've lost a family member. It's one of hundreds of centers like it around the country kids sit and support groups led by grown-ups.

2 (44m 45s):
But the point is to allow children to talk to other children about their grief. They're encouraged to speak in concrete language about death because the thinking goes that's how to process deaths finality. So people don't pass away. You don't lose them they die. We invest so much effort trying to Shield kids from the scary things in life. We place advisories before TV shows that warned against inappropriate language and subject matter and what could be less appropriate than death. So for all we let on bunnies lay eggs, your mother means well and life pretty much goes on forever to do otherwise feels like you're breaking a basic pack that grown-ups have with one another.

2 (45m 29s):
Whoo-hoo. Did you have died? My dad to guinea pigs a dog to cats. and my dad and that's all the kids here are more comfortable talking about death than most adults are like Haley who lost the sister and brother to mitochondrial disease. She and her other brother have the disease too, but not as bad. They've had to deal with something that most other people haven't had to let alone other kids. So it's hard to talk about with the kids at school. Sometimes they don't even know what we're talking about because we because we know all the stuff like all these words that Nobody's hurt.

2 (46m 13s):
Like none of the other kids heard about like like neurological or something like that and they're like, what does that mean or like a feeding tube? What does that mean? And it's just really hard to explain. It's not hard to explain but it's hard to like tall them and they still don't know understand where it goes or what it does to help you but this is a place where kids do understand. There are more than a dozen separate groups at the sharing Place broken down by age the groups meet twice a month for about an hour and a half in a refurbished House made to feel homey and safe. So it's like visiting your grandma's there are rooms were kids meet and talk and rooms where their parents do the same.

2 (46m 57s):
But most of the rooms are dedicated to play. There's a costume room where kids can dress up like police ballerinas Cowboys. I'm Spider-Man so you can do whatever I tell you to do and beside it is a room called the soft room, which is full of props and toys including an old telephone one little girl who watched her mother have a heart attack spent an entire play session pretending to call for help. Hi, 9-1-1, she'd say my grandma's dying. Hurry come quick. Then she'd hang up and dial again. Hi, 9-1-1 my dad's dying hurry come quick.

2 (47m 43s):
One of the most popular rooms is a padded room called the volcano room. It's full of cushions and large rubber yoga balls. It's even got an adult-sized dummy to wrestle and punch the

1 (47m 55s):
kids can scream yell pound

2 (47m 57s):
the walls and throw things around they love it. It's a release Eve is 9 years old and her father died about two years ago. She knows that feeling of keeping it all bottled up inside. She says she can go days at school like that. It kind of feels really overwhelming and it's like you you'd like don't know what to do and on the inside. It's like hurting somehow in like feel a feeling way like hurt somehow.

2 (48m 37s):
Where do would you say? It hurts, usually with me would Hurtin throat and kind of my stomach. It's like something that needs to come out, but just I really need to learn how to do that. I think there are people who in this world who can grow up and don't really know how to talk frankly about lots of things. Nancy Riser is one of the cofounders of the sharing place and this is what she says when children ask her how people die. Well close your eyes and listen.

2 (49m 31s):
And there isn't the next breath. Does it hurt? I don't think so. I don't think so. Their face doesn't look like it hurt. Nancy's a therapist who works with young children for a long time. The very concept that children do in fact grieve was hotly disputed Freud said that it was difficult for children to even conceive of such loss. And as a culture Nancy says that's pretty much the idea that we operate under. Oh, look she's playing. She's okay. She didn't really First and what happened? Well, she's playing but then half an hour later. She's in the house holding her teddy bear and sucking your thumb and crying. So we need to let people know that children grief and help them when they grieve so it's not stuck inside and comes out when they try to have a relationship later.

2 (50m 24s):
When they start to get intimate, wow, they cannot bear it and they go off and they don't know why Nancy says children just grieve differently than adults especially little children. They grieve in fits and starts. They can't focus on it for very long and grief is more physical for them. They'll act out their anger. Maybe kick a door, which is the reason for the volcano room at the sharing place the might also regress suddenly using baby talk or sucking their thumbs and if they're potty-trained they might become untrained.

1 (50m 54s):
There are so magical thinkers. I heard stories of kids who were afraid to go to sleep because

2 (50m 59s):
Grandma went to sleep and didn't wake up one little boy wandered away from his mom at the emergency room saying I'm looking for Dad. We left him here last time another boy said he just wanted to die for a few days so we can go to heaven and teach his little sister had to ride a

1 (51m 16s):
tricycle.

2 (51m 21s):
Children also re grieve that is with every new stage of development. They experience their grief a new and with every Milestone when their braces come off when they get their drivers license when they graduate they'll inevitably think I wish my mom was here and given all of this the thought behind the sharing place and other centers like it is that kids can help one another in a way that adults perhaps can't help them. That's why they're brought together in these. Oops in short kids speak the same language. It is turned on. What do you think about that before their session at the sharing place? I sit down with Gavin. He was six and his brother Aidan who's 8 they're both dressed in matching long sleeve polo shirts Gavin sits on his mother.

2 (52m 7s):
Nicole's lab Hayden sits beside them out. You will do you want to intrude introduce yourself? I'm Aidan. My dad died twice. Suicide suicide his little brother Gavin points his finger to his head and pulls the pretend Trigger. He snaps his head back. Yep. That's what happened. Was he shot his head? And then we didn't know he was dead. Right Mama. We didn't and then we then we said wake up Dad. No, you didn't see him. Mommy found him and he was already he was already dead.

2 (52m 50s):
Did you turn over I didn't touch him? Okay. She knew he was are like dead because she saw blood and things on his head. Yeah, and he was like a terrific guy so nice so generous he would always help anyone. He was a terrific guy. What would what did you learn here that helped you the most to understand how he died? Sometimes that task telling the kids that their parent committed suicide false to Jill McFarland because the surviving parent or Guardian might be so inside their own grief that they can't bring themselves to do it Jill explain suicide as simply as she does other kinds of death.

2 (53m 40s):
There's a sickness in your brain called depression. She says and it can make you decide to make your own body stopped working. She says it's required that the kids know how their brother or sister or mother died before starting the group. Why had one family say he died because he was sick one family said that he died in a car accident one family said that he accidentally shot himself. He didn't mean to it was Jill who help their mom break the news to Aidan and Gavin that their dad shot himself. She says that conversation was especially hard the boys immediately said you don't you don't know my dad. Why would you say that? You don't know us and he said I know I don't know you and but your mom's here today because she needs She needed my help and telling you this because this is a really hard and scary thing that happened and your mom told me that that's what happened.

2 (54m 30s):
And Aidan just was like you're crazy lady. There's no way that we're going to talk about this. This is not what happened. It was horrible and was awful and I cried that whole night. I just it was just awful. I just felt so horrible and my husband was like you can't do this. You have to go to the director and tell her that you can't do this again suicide is always one of the highest if not the highest cause of death. Sharing Place families at any given time there's actually a special group devoted specifically to suicide and a lot of the stories you hear in that group are so horrible that you can't help but wonder why tell the kids what happened at all? Why not just say they died and leave it at that according to Jill and her colleagues.

2 (55m 14s):
We need to tell children so they won't find out later in life and wonder what else did they lie to me about they also don't want to have to cloak it in a way. That's Suggest it's unspeakable and shameful. They get enough of that idea at school. This is Eve again

1 (55m 30s):
whose father also shot

2 (55m 31s):
himself with some people at school. They say this makes me feel really sad to they say that when somebody kills themselves, that means they go to the wrong place. I don't believe that but it just makes me feel really sad when they say that Like instead of going to a happy place, they'd go to sad. but even if you even if you don't believe it and you know, it's nonsense, it's still kind of hurts that someone would say that yeah, it does cause I'm like, it's like somebody judging Judging my papa, which it's not a bad thing A lot of people do that.

2 (56m 15s):
But you know just kind of feels a little weird like on the inside. It makes me feel like I'm gonna scream and like do something like that. What are the things that you wish that people would say probably? It's okay that that has happened and we can help you with some feeling better. And understanding you. That's probably something I'd want somebody to say.

2 (56m 56s):
Once a child knows how their loved one died. They're encouraged to say it out loud. There's a kind of sorcery to it naming the dragon. So you can defeat it. I sat in on the suicide Group which is different than the other groups in that kids tend to come to meetings for a longer period of time partly because they didn't get to say goodbye the kids sit in a circle at the beginning of the meeting and hand around a Talking Stick one by one they say their name who died and how they died. My name is Elias and the person who died was my dad and he he died by shooting himself his self with the gun and he and he wanted today.

2 (57m 44s):
Oh, my name is Lindsey. My dad died. He died by Suicide and I regret not seeing him cuz I hadn't seen him for a couple of months before his death. There's also a different question. They respond to each time. They meet. What do you miss most about the person? Is there anything you don't miss tonight's question is what he regret? My name is Ethan and the person who died is my dad. He died by shooting himself in the head. and I don't know if I have any regrets. I just can't remember. It can take a long time for them to get to this point where they can say the word suicide the sharing place never corrects any of the kids or forces them to say anything.

2 (58m 31s):
They don't want to but they notice when a child is finally able to say it. The night I was there Aiden the nine-year-old. I talked to who had a hard time saying the word suicide was finally able to say it in group The Volunteers set around and talked about it afterwards. It was hard for my could tell he wasn't about to say it but he said it and I was proud of him, but it took him probably at least a minute to actually get those words

1 (58m 56s):
out his mom if it was okay to say

2 (58m 59s):
so she wasn't coaching him. No. No, it's good on the other hand Aidan's brother Gavin. And the six-year-old talks about his dad suicide incessantly, he also draws guns during playtime and even sculpt them out of Play-Doh. This is Joe McFarland again. He tells everybody at school my dad shot his brains and it freaks everybody out. And so then he gets in trouble at school which then he was like, well, I guess I can't ever talk about my dad. But this is how can you Gartner's talk and process things. It's just easy for them to talk about but it scares other people. Is it okay for kids to other kids in the class to hear that kind of Thing. Well, yeah. I mean I've let's is there a right answer to that?

2 (59m 40s):
I don't know. I don't know either if I were a parent. I'm not sure I'd want my kid hearing that kind of thing at school. And while Jill doesn't have an answer. She does think kids being allowed to express themselves as much healthier than sending them a message that it's wrong to say this kind of stuff out loud and that's got to be a step in the right direction.

1 (1h 0m 5s):
I have very very

2 (1h 0m 6s):
Very fond memories of this place. I actually tried to come through the side door because that was the door that I always came in through and I was like I can use the

1 (1h 0m 14s):
adult entrance. Finally

2 (1h 0m 18s):
Sarah Muhammad hasn't been to the sharing place for a full six years. She's 21 now. Well when she was 11 her older brother hanged himself, even though he was supposed to be babysitting her her parents had told her to keep an eye out on him because of his past suicide attempts obviously what and wasn't her fault, but she blamed herself which is something I heard other kids here talk about to it's easy for an adult to say don't be silly. It's not your fault, but it's a whole other thing to talk with a kid at the sharing Place who says I know exactly what you're talking about. It was It was kind of nice seeing the older kids whose you know, loved ones had been gone for a few years how they were able to go to school normally and Um just live their normal

1 (1h 1m 9s):
lives because I just didn't want to go to school. I didn't want to be with kids who just didn't know it was just it was too hard.

2 (1h 1m 18s):
I asked her if there was a turning point a moment when she began to feel like maybe she was doing a little better. She said, yes, she was in the courtyard with a bunch of other kids. We were just out there painting rocks or something for a fundraiser and we were just talking being just talking like normal and I realize that I hadn't had a conversation like that in about a year just where where I felt a hundred percent free and just laughing and not feeling guilty about laughing and just happy and that was

1 (1h 1m 58s):
yeah, that was really the first time

2 (1h 2m 1s):
in in a good nine

1 (1h 2m 3s):
months after my brother had passed that I felt

2 (1h 2m 7s):
okay. It's the kids themselves who decide when they're ready to stop coming to the sharing place. But on average they stay about two years when they're ready to leave. They have to announce their intention to times and group before their final goodbyes. Any of you that would like to say something to him, which I'm sure several of you. Will the goodbye is ceremonial and on the last night. I was there at the end of the meeting they said goodbye to a kid named Robbie. He sat in the circle with the other kids and volunteers and anybody who wanted to could pick up the Talking Stick and say a few words his friend Jessica was the last kid to do. So I'll definitely miss you because you're like one of my best friends in this group and I'll miss seeing you.

2 (1h 2m 56s):
And our major fight that we had in the volcano room. It was not my fault. Yes, you did. No, it was just really fun. And I'm gonna miss seeing you and miss hanging out with you. At Robbie's last meeting. There was a kid who just shown up. It was his first meeting. He had long bangs hanging over his eyes and except for his name didn't say anything the whole time whenever a new person joins. The veteran kids have a chance to gauge their own progress to remember what they were like when they first showed up and think about how bad it used to be and how now it isn't as bad and ultimately like Robbie the Make Way for someone on the long waiting list a list on which Names are added all the time.

2 (1h 3m 43s):
They'll say I think it's time to go and then they'll say it again. Jonathan Goldstein is the host of the podcast heavyweight. Teach the gifted children teach them to have our program was produced by Robin semyon with Zoe Chase. Sean Cole Stephanie Foo Ira Glass Miki Miki Jonathan menjivar, Brian Reed Alyssa ship and Nancy Updike our senior producer for today's show is Julie Snyder editing help from Joe level additional help for this rerun from Newark Gil Stone Nelson Catherine raimondo and Matt Tierney special.

2 (1h 4m 35s):
Today to Jillian Gunther Amy Silverman. Stephenplante rain Soph John Radford, Sean. Colu Keanu Jackson Kayla Skinner Deirdre Dowdy Adam Tedford. Carne Williamson, Nava at Shalom Rebecca. Cola a niche wrestler Amy palms and their son Axl Ashley Newman of baked in Brooklyn, Carlos Cuba Brown Chris. She trusts Louis Max enchantee Bryce Diego pisciotta and Donna Freitas the National Alliance for grieving children and all the kids parents and volunteers. Tears at the sharing place. Let us record their our website This American Life dot-org This American Life is delivered to public radio stations by PRX. The public radio exchange a reminder Pocket Casts is the podcast app created by our public radio colleagues at WBEZ WNYC and NPR.

2 (1h 5m 25s):
It is absolutely free works on every device. You can find it at the Apple app store Google Play Store and at Pocket Casts.com Thanks today to my boss. Ira Glass was very gracious in handing over Today's Show at first but then in the last day or so, I think he's a little bored or something. He keeps popping his head in randomly. I'm Spider-Man so you can do it. Whatever I tell you to I'm gonna drop you Walt Ira will be back next week with more stories of This American Life. What did they say Take Me to the

1 (1h 6m 2s):
River?

2 (1h 6m 5s):
Take me to

1 (1h 6m 10s):
the quick. Next week on the podcast of This American Life this last session single mom decides to secretly record her home inspector catch him sexually harassing

2 (1h 6m 44s):
her.

1 (1h 6m 47s):
Okay years later Jesus recording very differently.

2 (1h 6m 49s):
Now what happens when you begin to second-guess the very tactics that helped you survive

1 (1h 6m 54s):
next week on the podcast on your local public radio

2 (1h 6m 57s):
station.