1 (0s):
Support for This American Life comes from quip. One of the first electric toothbrushes accepted by the American Dental Association quip has a built-in two-minute timer that pulses every 30 seconds to remind you to switch sides and Sonic vibrations for healthier gums. Go to get quip.com / American and get your first refill pack for free. From WBEZ Chicago. It's a special Christmas edition of This American Life. We have a bunch of things for you today including later in the program Christmas on fire. But let's just kick things off right now with a song recorded an event. We did on stage a little while back on the twelfth day of Christmas my true

2 (43s):
love gave to me twelve drummers drumming eleven Pipers piping ten Lords a-leaping nine ladies dancing eight maids a-milking. In seven swans a-swimming six geese a-laying five golden rings four calling Birds Three French Hens, two, turtle doves and a partridge in a pear tree.

1 (1m 13s):
I have always hated that

2 (1m 14s):
song.

1 (1m 16s):
I have always had that song. I feel like that song is symbolic of everything that is bad about Christmas. I just say I have no bad feelings about Christmas. I am a noncombatant when it comes to Christmas because on stage talking about the song because we had this idea that we thought might make a really fun thing to try for Christmas and that is we organized a night of improv comedy and I know maybe you saying okay, how does that go together? Why improv comedy and Christmas? Okay. Well this can take a little explaining. Stay with me this British writer and performer named Daniel kits and I saw him say this thing about Christmas that seems so true. He says that when you're a kid and you wake up Christmas morning, what makes Christmas feel so magical is this feeling of like, oh my God, it's going to be amazing.

1 (2m 4s):
The world is so full of possibility Anything Can Happen the fact that Santa Claus even exist this literally magical being who came to your home and kitchen says is thrilled feeling that anything can happen. And that is the thing that is so hard to hold on to once we become adults. In fact, he says that so many adults at Christmas. They try to recreate the same Christmas year after year with the same everything over and over and over. It's like they lock in Christmas becomes the opposite of anything can happen. That is why it never feels as magical to adults. but it is possible to get back to that feeling and okay back to the plan for today's show one place that adults Embrace that feeling that anything could happen and it's going to happen in then they make it happen is improv comedy where you know, they walk on stage with no idea what anybody is going to say and then one person tries something they say something and then somebody else pitches in with a line of their own and then somebody else pictures in it before you know it they've made like a whole scene a whole world really and so With that in mind we got these incredible improv Comedians and we got a cub to perform in and we did a show and we did the show in this particular style of improv where the people on stage they tell true stories about their lives.

1 (3m 23s):
And then those stories are true stories become the basis of the Improv scenes that they then invent and those scenes lead them to other true stories that then lead them into other improv scenes and so on and so on and so on and I was there I kick things off with a story about that song about the song The Twelve Days of Christmas which is a song that I noticed even though just to say it again Christmas is not my day. I am not somebody who celebrates Christmas at all. I'm a Jew and I'm not that kind of Jew whose parents celebrated Christmas and Hanukkah. We were pure Hanukkah people and we go down on the Christmas Hanukkah Jews.

1 (4m 5s):
And in fact, I grew up in a suburb of Baltimore. That was so Jewish. I didn't understand that we were in the minority and so Christmas I do nothing. It means nothing to me the day means nothing and most years I go to Vegas on

2 (4m 17s):
Christmas, but I do really love

1 (4m 21s):
Christmas music. I've always loved Christmas music and and at some point in my twenties and start to make a collection of Christmas CDs and records and the worst song of all is the song The Twelve Days of Christmas

2 (4m 32s):
and whenever it comes on I just think like

1 (4m 34s):
Why is this still in circulation?

2 (4m 39s):
First of all

1 (4m 40s):
the words refer to a wife and a world that none of us can relate to or care

2 (4m 46s):
about 12 words a weeping. What is what experience is that even referring to and then swans are swimming

1 (4m 56s):
geese are a-laying so so are we in a warm climate a

2 (4m 59s):
cold climate? It just raises so many questions but also the form of the song is so intensely boring and you guys know what I'm talking about where you do the

1 (5m 10s):
first one and then you go back and you do all the ones before it which you already did. You know what I mean? So you do two turtle doves and a partridge in a pear tree Than Three French Hens two, turtle doves and a partridge in New Jersey then four calling Birds Three French Hens, two, turtle doves and a partridge in five golden rings four calling birds

2 (5m 26s):
and just like it. So, you know what's going to happen? It's

1 (5m 28s):
repetitious in the most boring

2 (5m 30s):
way and then it's always

1 (5m 31s):
Very slowly which is annoying and

2 (5m 35s):
I don't know why it survived hundreds of years to still be around and and my only thought is five golden rings five golden rings is the hook of the song and you've sung the song right when you get to five golden rings everybody freeze a cyber if it's like five gold rings and just feel like yeah, you know what? I mean? It's like The drum set but that's the hook of the song and without five golden rings. This song would be nothing.

1 (6m 9s):
Okay. So at this point this me back in the studio talking this way, if I could just describe the stage sitting on stools in a row, there are six improv Comedians and we got some of the best people around for this kind of things. Seriously. We felt so lucky they agreed to be in the show Aidy Bryant and Sasheer Zamata. They were both on Saturday Night Live at the time Today's Show is a rerun Scott adsit. On 30 Rock and before that he was in Second City. So it was Tammy Sager Chris gethard to Mike Birbiglia. They both in our radio program before Mike many many times. They both have deep improv backgrounds. So six of them are sitting on the stage on these stools and they listen to that first story that I told to kick things off and Mike was the first one to stand up and speak.

1 (6m 52s):
Well, first of all, I want to disagree with Ira about that song. I think in some sense. It's sort of the 15 bottles of beer on the wall. all of Christmas carols It's endemic. It's repetitive. I think where the disconnect happens is that it's just British

2 (7m 13s):
things. What uh, what kind of

1 (7m 20s):
American things would you put in there

2 (7m 23s):
like a bald eagle a bald eagle a big oak tree. Yeah bald eagle in an oak tree. Yeah. We just got a

1 (7m 31s):
deep British the whole thing, I think. That's the problem lady have a squire. Yes. We've been courting now for going on 10 months and

2 (7m 45s):
I've been

1 (7m 46s):
playing in my mind with what to get you for Christmas

2 (7m 50s):
Lord met with Munch. I am sure that whatever you

1 (7m 58s):
bring me on Christmas will bring me much. What? May I give it to you now? Oh, yes, but so soon before Christmas excited. I think I did well. All right, here you are five golden

2 (8m 20s):
rings. Oh

1 (8m 24s):
my goodness, but I've also brought you 23

2 (8m 30s):
Birds

1 (8m 33s):
23 individual birds and fifty human

2 (8m 38s):
people. Could you stay in the group, please? We are the crystals with him. Do you like it? I love it. Look maybe Munch if we could just go back for a moment to the five golden rings. Oh, yes. Yes. So two questions question. Number one. What is the difference between a gold ring and a golden ring a because one seems to imply that it merely has the color yet.

2 (9m 23s):
None of the value. Well, you've caught me there. I'm afraid to say the

1 (9m 34s):
pear tree cost rather more than I

2 (9m 36s):
expected Rodney the match. Maybe have a squire.

1 (9m 47s):
Do you remember when you first came courting? Yes, my memory is

2 (9m 52s):
intact. Because I distinctly remember telling you I don't like a turtle dove I find roses played out and quite frankly a Lords a-leaping I've seen enough in yet. That's all you seem to have brought. Oh, come on just Do you know what they call you in the county?

1 (10m 31s):
I don't

2 (10m 33s):
think all you quantity over quality.

1 (10m 47s):
Many of you guys actually have memories it did any of you have to go caroling or did you sing in?

2 (10m 52s):
I am also super Jewish. I'm Israeli Jewish. So the level of

1 (10m 58s):
you totally out Jew me.

2 (10m 59s):
Yeah, I but I was in the Chicago Children's Choir

1 (11m 3s):
and was a little kids choir and the big thing that you do a Christmas is singing Christmas carols. So two things that I remember very well from Christmas choir was one was I got a

2 (11m 17s):
So low that I got to do. Yeah,

1 (11m 22s):
and I screwed up and that was

2 (11m 25s):
horrifying the other thing that just occurred to me now is so it was on the south side of Chicago

1 (11m 31s):
and it was pretty racially diverse

2 (11m 34s):
meaning I was usually

1 (11m 36s):
was the minority not just as a Jew but as a white person in choir, and so we also did a lot of gospels which is where I discovered that I Clap

2 (11m 49s):
and it became something that I would practice at

1 (11m 53s):
home. Chris of clarification just as fact-checking matter. You would practice clapping. Yeah to what like, what would be the

2 (12m 3s):
sound you just radio. I was just turn on the radio and I'll be like, oh just like try to clap on the beat because if you don't know how to clap and you're in a choir clapping, it's terrifying

1 (12m 17s):
Bernice. I was watching you singing the

2 (12m 19s):
chorus. Oh wow. You saw me wow.

1 (12m 27s):
I see everything I'm Jesus.

2 (12m 31s):
well, this is Ooh, cool for me. This is

1 (12m 34s):
huge. I'll listen. It's an honor to meet you.

2 (12m 37s):
Oh my Thank you. Thank you Jesus. You know, I hear that all day.

1 (12m 47s):
But it still means a lot when you

2 (12m 48s):
say you Jesus you're so nice.

1 (12m 53s):
I gotta tell you. You really should not be

2 (12m 57s):
singing. What do you mean? Well, I think Bernice's Bernice I think you're answering your own

1 (13m 23s):
question, you know, I'm the Holy Spirit and I just

2 (13m 27s):
wanted

1 (13m 28s):
just want to chime. I think Bernie's has a really nice voice.

2 (13m 31s):
Hey have I told you not to come? All right. Well, maybe it's because I'm

1 (13m 37s):
singing like gorgeous God songs. Maybe you want more of like a pop hit or something. No, what I'm saying is that you were singing from your heart, but your heart is not good

2 (13m 47s):
enough.

1 (13m 52s):
It really puts other people off and it's pushing people away from me. I need people I need more

2 (13m 58s):
people. We

1 (14m 1s):
cut to a an executive television Executives office. I gotta say we got this show and the judges are too soft. And I think you're the exact kind of hard Edge. We need Jesus. Well, I appreciate the compliment, but I would be happy to do the job. But let me also warn you that when I bring judgment, that's the end of the

2 (14m 22s):
world. This is that's the kind of ratings Bonanza I've been looking for. Okay. I'm in Cielo Aguilera. They softball if they feel

1 (14m 30s):
Adam Levine they all feel bad. Nobody gives an honest opinion. I need somebody's gonna be harsh and somebody's gonna be brutal who's gonna say, this is exactly how I see it. Don't talk to me about Adam Levine man. What do I gotta do to get you on my network? I know money means nothing to you you're omnipotent, you know everything you have access to everything. What do I gotta do to get you on my Airwaves? I want you to live your life as I would live

2 (14m 51s):
mine same I Jewish Brothers welcome

1 (14m 60s):
I call. All this meeting spelled his minion.

2 (15m 4s):
Thank you very much. I gotta say thank you for the correction Jacob.

1 (15m 12s):
I called this

2 (15m 13s):
minion

1 (15m 16s):
to discuss our grievances with

2 (15m 19s):
Christmas as a holiday. I know it's not our holiday, but I know that I

1 (15m 26s):
have some concerns

2 (15m 29s):
brother Ava I think you should have just your level of Julie. It's a little high. Oh, here it is. It's on my anklet here. It's yeah, we are. Oh, wow. Well, I don't like it.

1 (15m 53s):
Okay, this is Ira in the studio. I'm just going to stop the tape for a second just to make perfectly clear. What's happening on stage right now? Okay. So the first comedian the seen Mike Birbiglia he had some trouble with his Jewish accent as you heard and he was teased about it. And then another comedian 80 Bryant entered the scene and she has so much trouble coming up with a Jewish accent that at some point that just becomes what the scene is about is her discomfort at this awful accent and the other performers kind of egging her on and also ripping her about it very affectionately, okay. The scene well,

2 (16m 24s):
well, I don't like it. They won't be.

1 (16m 36s):
I want to welcome my brother from the Italian branch of

2 (16m 40s):
Judaism. Thank you Antonio for bringing the 24 pizzas.

1 (16m 57s):
We hope everything is going well at the temple out in Bay

2 (16m 60s):
Ridge. It's really is please continue. I'll stay quiet. I promise for the rest of the meeting. Antonio your daddy gets wet everywhere. My favorite thing about being Jewish is of course the sweet lasagna.

2 (17m 40s):
I'm trying my hardest. I feel we must move on see. I'm sorry. I'm sorry to all the cultures everywhere around the world fellas fellas fellas get in

1 (18m 10s):
here bill is

2 (18m 12s):
working on I want to get I want to get the group back together for a Christmas

1 (18m 18s):
song and I was just thinking this one would be just five golden

2 (18m 23s):
rings. Oh,

1 (18m 26s):
oh, okay jettison the other verses we hit five golden rings hard,

2 (18m 32s):
right?

1 (18m 34s):
We will Circle back

2 (18m 37s):
you could do some scatting. Oh my god. Well, I mean if you're gonna finally let me do it then do me this topped out. Yeah. I just think I just think we all need to accept the truth, which is is nobody likes the

1 (18m 55s):
other verse. I know George. I feel like a lot of people are going to miss like

2 (18m 59s):
calling birds or at least the nine ladies dancing a bit beat by dou y see

1 (19m 19s):
Dad yeah I want to feed the geese. Okay, we can do that. I just want to want to make sure you know, they're an extremely vicious animal.

2 (19m 31s):
Yeah, I think he's before

1 (19m 33s):
they're like really

2 (19m 34s):
cute. Okay,

1 (19m 37s):
you know I'm a big believer in let you learn your

2 (19m 38s):
lessons. Yeah, you always say that before I like something really bad happens. I mean, I just tried to warn you they can be a

1 (19m 46s):
really aggressive animal. Okay, but sure. Yeah, give me the bread. Yeah. Okay. Go For Broke. Just remember what I told you.

2 (19m 53s):
Hey, come here. Look you see. Oh, okay,

1 (19m 58s):
huh. Oh you are. Really beautiful. Oh

2 (20m 1s):
my gosh. I'm sorry. I don't usually say that but you

1 (20m 8s):
are really

2 (20m 9s):
gorgeous. Thanks. I mean, you're

1 (20m 13s):
the kind of person that a goose would give up his old life for I mean I could take you places. I'm going way too fast. I'm sorry, but you You're turning me around. Huh?

2 (20m 31s):
Did you hear that?

1 (20m 32s):
Yeah, like I told you super

2 (20m 33s):
aggressive. see Did you guys have this as a

1 (20m 47s):
kid where the joy of Christmas when I look back on it? I think has a lot to do with no school.

2 (20m 53s):
Oh, yes just this idea

1 (20m 56s):
of wait. There's a there's a week where there's no

2 (21m 1s):
school. It's so different when you don't celebrate Christmas because for you it's two weeks where you don't see your

1 (21m 10s):
friends. Because they are all going somewhere cool and having fun but Jews also give the school break to

2 (21m 16s):
right you still have to go to school children gather around we have a

1 (21m 25s):
class-wide announcement. All right the

2 (21m 28s):
juice this is never good. see I was I was

1 (21m 43s):
I was just gonna tell a quick story. I'm going to

2 (21m 47s):
listen. What I

1 (21m 50s):
feel like we keep talking about like especially people who were like always experiencing like a Jewish Christmas experience, but I was the exact opposite. We're like until I was 13 years old. I did not know Jewish people existed Maybe. And I loved Christmas so much that I would get up at like three in the morning to try and look at my presents and I just always felt like such simple things would give me such overwhelming joy that I wish I could have that now like one Christmas morning. I was in my little Christmas gown and I like crept down and there was a giant stuffed animal st.

1 (22m 31s):
Bernard which is not like a bike that you can ride or something that you can do. It's just going to sit there and you're going to look at it and love it. And as soon as I saw it, I was so happy. I could not believe my eyes. I fell to my knees and I my

2 (22m 49s):
pants I just like upon the sight of this Saint Bernard. I just was like, thank you and I fell to my knees and just blast it. Did right into my pants so I had to like creep into my parents room and say like good morning. Mom Merry Christmas. I've soiled myself and I need your help. Can I ask about the other improv stars

1 (23m 26s):
on stage? Like do you have moments like that of like such incredible Joy at Christmas?

2 (23m 33s):
Like not not that would take your body to that lines, but don't even like moments of just like pure pure

1 (23m 38s):
joy in that way that I think we rarely have as adults you have when I was a kid my sister and I would would get up really early and and stand at the top of the stairs because we knew we weren't allowed to go downstairs and my dad had this tradition he we would have For him to we just shake with anticipation of the top of the stairs and and wait and wait and bother them my parents to get out of bed and we'd pull them out of bed and they would take their sweet time putting on their clothes and getting their shaving

2 (24m 11s):
it just just to torture us because they knew we were at the

1 (24m 14s):
top of the stairs and my dad would go downstairs first and he'd say, let's see if Santa came like he looked around the hallway and said you don't see any evidence. Has he been here? They walk into the dining room and he and we did he disappear and we'd here and go no nothing in here and we're up there going like

2 (24m 38s):
it's the dining room. There's nothing in the dining room goes into this kind of side a little

1 (24m 43s):
sitting room and same thing. He disappears. He does the same stick of nothing in here and then he'd say inevitably it's a Don't know if he came. The first couple of years we were really nervous that maybe Santa did not come. But then, you know three or four years of this we were

2 (25m 4s):
like, of course he came there's everything's in the the go to the family room for the fan with the tree is where the fireplace is that is not gonna come down and then cart everything into the dining room. Family room good

1 (25m 25s):
nothing in

2 (25m 26s):
here. My god dad. I want your help. Maybe I'll go look

1 (25m 33s):
up in the attic. What's wrong

2 (25m 36s):
with you? / what's wrong with you? It's not gonna be the attic

1 (25m 39s):
model guys. Your dad's having fun. Come on

2 (25m 43s):
point your stupid freshly shaven face towards the family room. I want to

1 (25m 47s):
talk to you guys about your dad. Okay, he has

2 (25m 50s):
Alzheimer's

1 (25m 56s):
he doesn't know where the presents are.

2 (26m 0s):
That is true. We've been saying he was having fun, but holy hell the Ho ho ho come in here elves. Mr. Santa Claus. Oh Merry Christmas. Thank you again. I want to tell

1 (26m 30s):
you something. I've never told you about

2 (26m 33s):
Christmas see, you know, we've been working for him for 472 years. You're going to have to dig deep in that bag. Well, I've told you that it's a magical time of

1 (26m 45s):
year, huh. I've told you we give presents to millions of children in the world. No, it may call

2 (26m 53s):
that. Yeah, we do that

1 (26m 57s):
what I haven't told you. Rudolph has

2 (26m 60s):
cancer the red nose is why didn't we get him treated? We all that red nose for so long for years. We just thought it was adorable. I feel so bad. We used to laugh and call him names.

1 (27m 31s):
I have a question. I wonder what you guys think of this and I think this makes me sound like a bad person. Do you feel like Christmas loses a lot of the joy when you hit an age where you have to start buying presents for other people. I have not hit that age. Really.

2 (27m 51s):
A thousand percent. I feel like

1 (27m 52s):
it like takes it's like a fun magic thing. And then when you actually have to give back to other people it becomes I think that's absolutely true drag such a drag your parents didn't make you give presents to your siblings to my siblings. Yeah. I had one brother our elementary school rent. Did you guys have this your Elementary of our elementary school had a thing that was just bad presidents like cheap reviewed going to the gym and be like, oh you can buy like your dad a little screwdriver set. You can buy

2 (28m 20s):
your mom. Plastic ring it

1 (28m 23s):
was all the same stuff. So every year my brother was just an interchangeable. Like I got you the neon flies swatter great. I got you the slap bracelet, you know and our mom would give us the money. Anyway, this isn't it might sound cynical my wife and I do we don't give each other Christmas presents because neither of us believe in holidays don't believe in them.

2 (28m 45s):
Well, they're out there like they're they exist but with Every fourth of July do you think a war is breaking out? No to Chris's point. No neither of

1 (29m 5s):
us like the pressure of having to get a gift and we just don't like him. So we're just like no we don't want that in a relationship. Well, I'm the opposite when I grew up. I remember the first presents I bought and it's still essentially true of me now is that I'm really excited for people to open the present. I found or made for them. Them and watching them open other people's presence makes me angry and I just am waiting for them to get to my present.

2 (29m 33s):
I'm gonna I'm gonna walk you back on that one. Are you making a lot of the president made

1 (29m 39s):
same thing? What is what is unusual? Really? Good person Mom Mom.

2 (29m 45s):
Oh

1 (29m 45s):
sweetie. I got this for

2 (29m 48s):
you. Oh sweetie.

1 (29m 52s):
It's a paper Papa. It's a paper puppet. So, what'd you get me

2 (30m 2s):
know what Greg now is?

1 (30m 4s):
Not okay.

2 (30m 6s):
Sorry sweet mom's mom's friend Greg. You might wanna paper puppet to play with

1 (30m 16s):
to yeah. Yeah, Greg my wanna paper public. I only made one paper puppet. Well, you know what? That's great honey, because Greg and Mommy are going to share because

2 (30m 30s):
sharing is caring.

1 (30m 33s):
Thank you. Is care and okay. I want you to share the paper puppet. That's awesome. Yeah, thank you for that. That's nice. Great. Can you please put on a rope

2 (30m 46s):
guess so okay sweetie. How remember we said when Greg's over we're gonna knock on the door. We're not going to come in at 3. I love my paper puppet

1 (30m 56s):
of my paper puppet, but it's time to go back to bed. Okay. Can I get in bed with you

2 (31m 0s):
guys? My baby? Not a good

1 (31m 3s):
time and I To be

2 (31m 5s):
honest, don't maybe not not a good time. See. Wait, so probably not usable. But for my own sake there's two things that we went past that I want to

1 (31m 19s):
hear and one is what Greg was going

2 (31m 22s):
to say when you say can I be honest with

1 (31m 24s):
you? I was gonna Greg was going to say going to be honest. I didn't get you anything, but your present will be a father figure if you play your cards, right? I you know what? I like had there was no like religious factor in my Christmas experience, but it was all about like creating your own magic. I feel like we had this family tradition where Christmas Eve everyone had to do one trick, which could be of any

2 (31m 57s):
sort and then if you did your trick you got to open one present before you went to bed.

1 (32m 6s):
Now, you're a professional

2 (32m 7s):
performer. All the tricks like I mean, it was all kinds of things. Like I remember

1 (32m 15s):
one year my aunt and uncle timed like a nostril flashlight dance

2 (32m 20s):
to Dueling Banjos and like there was

1 (32m 26s):
welcome to the Bryant family talent show. Does anyone want to start I think Jeff we've got a real great line. We got a great really excited really big

2 (32m 44s):
but I have to say I've been hearing whisperings

1 (32m 47s):
from Samantha that she's got a real great talent coming up.

2 (32m 51s):
It's not ready. It's not ready. Okay. Okay, sweetie. Oh sweetie. It's okay. It's okay, sweetie. All right, we'll just do some banter. We'll do some bastard cover

1 (33m 3s):
this might know if he's ready. Yeah, I'm ready. I've been ready for this all year. I'm waiting for this opportunity all year Michael. I'm gonna remind you of the ages of everybody in the family.

2 (33m 13s):
Okay?

1 (33m 14s):
Okay. Alright. So yeah, I'll remind you my age. I'm 16 and I'm finally seeing the world for what it is man.

2 (33m 21s):
Finally see the world for what it is. I'm sick. Okay - okay, Michael Michael, okay. Curl, your fist through the uncurl your face is how my hands are comfy. Hey. This is how my hands are comfortable Michael. What are those

1 (33m 42s):
brass knuckles? No, not if you don't hit anybody with them Michael put those away interconnected

2 (33m 49s):
Rings we might can I have them can I have them? Yeah, take them to whatever you want with them

1 (33m 53s):
cool five

2 (33m 55s):
golden rings give them back give him back anything but that anything but that I think

1 (34m 4s):
one of the things that's really evocative about Christmas in childhood is Actually fire like you like we used to make fires

2 (34m 15s):
and in the fireplace where one make fire you said like we like everything because a common experience, but collectively we all associate Christmas with fire.

1 (34m 32s):
I agree with Mike where we always had like a big beautiful fireplace where we would kind of gather around but my parents remodeled their house like when I was probably 11 a little bit and they redid the fireplace and it was like all these like River Rocks gorgeous. I know but they were like fake, you know, I mean, you couldn't tell that if you went except for there's still to this day one at the very top that's deflated.

2 (34m 59s):
It's like this deflated River Rock. And so in all our Christmas pictures, it's all of us

1 (35m 5s):
like seated in front of the fireplace and hanging above us is this like weird indented sort of like light grey River

2 (35m 13s):
Rock. Um,

1 (35m 17s):
what's a river

2 (35m 17s):
rock? Oh, well, I'm sorry. I was born and raised in the desert. So we're always searching for Rivers now. It's just there like just like rounded rocks. So they Get real ones. They had to get fake ones Woburn. It just take my family to test also this is it full of air like why is it deflated? Look, I didn't build it. I just I freaking lived it 80. Can you come here for a sec sweetie? Mmm

1 (35m 54s):
loved hearing you on the

2 (35m 55s):
radio. Okay,

1 (36m 1s):
I have to say your dad and I got real sad though. What story I had to tell

2 (36m 13s):
I guess I don't know. They chose that one. I did a ton of other nice stories. Did you talk about what happened when we gave you a 4 foot think Bernard stuffed toy. I'm going to stop this. Seen really why

1 (36m 30s):
why you don't want to hear our opinions and how your hip tight pants friends don't like are

2 (36m 34s):
rocks your hip your hip friends with their tight pants. Don't know what a rock is. Yeah. I don't want to write because you say River. You don't know it's just a rock. Yeah. I heard your daughter on the radio. Yeah.

1 (36m 51s):
We're Avid Teresa and I are Avid listeners. Yeah to the public radio. Station here in Arizona, and it was very disappointing to hear that your family is is it is an embarrassing

2 (37m 9s):
family? I will say I will say the thing that

1 (37m 17s):
was that was particularly special about Christmas because when I try to analyze what it is that made me experience like this absolute Euphoria in these two days is is that my dad was there. And my dad's a doctor, you know, which is wonderful, you know, he's a great doctor, but he just there would be no two days in the year for sure when I would know that he would be around for those two days and it was like there's something where there's this Joy of like the full family that I was just I'll never forget kids kids line up.

1 (37m 58s):
Daddy's gonna be here today. He's gonna be

2 (37m 60s):
here today promised you promised. There's nothing that could stop that, right?

1 (38m 3s):
He's coming today is the day he wrote us. He told us he phoned everything's all set. Oh, man. I'm going to get love from him. I'm gonna get

2 (38m 10s):
advice from him. I'm gonna get a spanking from him because I've been bad. I have so many questions to ask him that will shape how I view men. I'm just gonna quietly observe them and then mimic him suddenly forever. Oh, here he comes. Dad kids Tammy 80. What's your name? So Shear

1 (38m 47s):
something with an S? It's

2 (38m 49s):
Samantha. I'm your wife. Dad Dad. Look at my wards. Very nice Dad. Spank me I stole two years ago.

1 (39m 8s):
I just don't see why we have to go crazy like this. I don't see why we all have to go so

2 (39m 11s):
crazy. Yes. Yeah around Dad if I got all his would you be around more? I've been throwing up Dad something a good though. Don't they look good. They look all clean and

1 (39m 25s):
they look they keep your posture is very good and just like you like it just like you like

2 (39m 29s):
it. Yeah that I appreciate that you work for Federal Express and that you guys will deliver packages 24 hours a day 7 days a week 365 days a year plus you were on that island for a couple of years. You're just never around for us. We just want to hug you for an

1 (39m 53s):
hour. Oh my God. Don't say that out loud. Don't you check just think that if you just need to understand that at that at that, I love you all but I'm just very busy. Just very very busy them hug you please no, it's okay, Mom dad's too busy

2 (40m 8s):
for hook. Thomas look at their faces. It's okay, Mom. I don't deserve to be touched.

1 (40m 22s):
Sometimes. I just send an empty package hoping that you'll bring it

2 (40m 25s):
back

1 (40m 35s):
Dad. I just want you to know I can sense the emotional distance you're keeping and someday I plan on replicating and furthering

2 (40m 41s):
it.

1 (40m 44s):
All right. I'll see you all next year. Dad. There. He goes. You know what? I just noticed that it's like your inverse Santa Claus like Santa Claus brings kids packages one day a year and then you never see him again and we only see you today and then you bring people packages every other day

2 (41m 1s):
and we watch as the dad gets into his FedEx truck and he drives off into the distance and the kids notice that the FedEx. truck flies into the air thin Our Christmas improvisers in alphabetical order Scott

1 (41m 29s):
adsit Mike Birbiglia 80 Brian Chris gethard Tammy Sager and Sasheer Zamata

2 (41m 42s):
took my little boy to see Santa Claus. And then came our turn in line and when Santa asked him what he wanted for Christmas reply. I want Daddy home. Christmas day cause he drives a truck and he's always gone and Mom cries a lot when he's not home Christmas.

2 (42m 40s):
So could you please ask my dad to stay home

1 (42m 48s):
coming up normally responsible adults doing stuff. That is wrong. Just wrong for Christmas that's in minute from Chicago public radio when our program continues. Support for This American Life comes from quip. One of the first electric toothbrushes accepted by the American Dental Association quip has a built-in support system to help you stick with good brushing habits a built-in two-minute timer that pulses every 30 seconds to remind you to switch sides Sonic vibrations for healthier gums and a multi-use cover for brushing on the go plus brush heads are automatically delivered on a dentist recommended schedule every three months go to get quip.

1 (43m 29s):
Cam / American and get your first refill pack for free. That's get quip.com American. This American Life Myra glass each we're going to program. Of course, we choose a theme bring you different kinds of stories on that theme today's program say yes to Christmas stories where people Embrace possibility try something different because that is how you get back to the feeling of wonder that children have at Christmas when everything is so new. We have arrived at Act 2 of our program back to oily Potter and the Goblet of Fire whatever producer Stephanie Foo recently discovered a Christmas tradition that still pretty new in our country that no kidding brought her Joy. Kidding made the world seem like a bigger more wonderful place to her Jazz this report.

1 (44m 15s):
I don't remember how I stumbled on my very first turkey explosion video, but I do remember everything else about it. The video is called why you should never deep-fry a frozen turkey two firefighters are standing at the ready in front of a fire truck on a lawn somewhere in front of them stands a large pot full of hot oil on a propane burner. Another firefighter in full year comes out with a raw pink turkey. She hanging from the end of a long stick. He lowers the turkey into the pot. It's totally submerged in oil

2 (44m 46s):
and then the oil Bubbles and overflows spilling everywhere and a couple of fireballs even forced out of the pot and

1 (44m 51s):
gusts. And then just when you think it's over here comes the best

2 (44m 56s):
part suddenly an enormous 20-foot

1 (45m 1s):
column of fire blasts out of the pot like Sauron himself has been conjured by way of poultry sacrifice. I watched it again. And again, then I pulled in my coworker can't marry Sean cult watch with me another time.

2 (45m 23s):
Great.

1 (45m 25s):
It's just so pleasurable. I saw in the up next column and YouTube that there were more videos like this turkey fryer fire safety PSAs put out by fire departments across the country. We stopped counting at a hundred and fifty videos. They come from Tucson to Pensacola to Danville, California all made to demonstrate the dangers of deep frying a lot of the videos were clearly done as segments for local TV stations, but some departments employ different theatrical methods to amp up the drama on the PSAs some you slo-mo. Some play epic music as you watch close-ups of the pot of oil.

1 (46m 7s):
Some spray water in the pot obviously something you should never do with a grease fire as it doubles the size of the Flames William Shatner even stars in one video titled eat fry love created by State Farm in it. He's playing the inept Chef. I want a moister tastier turkey.

2 (46m 25s):
I wanted deep-fried turkey

1 (46m 29s):
and there is a dubstep

2 (46m 30s):
remix. I wanted a deep-fried turkey oyster. I wanted deep-fried turkey

1 (46m 39s):
amazingly. This was also released by State Farm.

2 (46m 42s):
There's a hunger that I was young blinded by my Hunger. I ignored safety. I want a deep fried turkey baster tastier

1 (46m 53s):
turkey, then there are the Jackass videos. We're regular people without safety gear lower turkeys into deep fryers. Sometimes from alarming Heights underneath trees and basketball hoops. Of course, there's a sub-genre here if people who actually wind up getting their decks on fire and fly into a panic just saying your average turkey fryer incident injures for people for because it's a spectator sport which is why fire departments do these videos every year but after my seventh time watching why you Never deep fry a turkey. It occurred to me that there's another reason why they do them.

1 (47m 34s):
I noticed one of the firefighter standing in the back. He was barely suppressing a grin a zoomed in on him wash it again definitely a grin so I called him to ask about it. His name is Lieutenant Daniel Ackerman of this Gambia County fire rescue. Definitely one of the highlights of being in the office when you actually drop that turkey, you're not a hundred percent sure how it's going to come out. Here are some of the guys from the Fargo fire department. They have one of my favorite videos. Hi do all of you guys like setting turkeys on fire. Yeah, you're doing the opposite of what you're supposed to be doing. You're supposed to be putting out fire, but you get to start one.

1 (48m 16s):
Yeah, it's fun. What's your favorite part about the Flaming turkey tradition making as big a fireball as you can. Yeah, and they're good at it Fargo's Fireball is two stories

2 (48m 28s):
tall. Thor explosion is huge. Yeah,

1 (48m 35s):
what is happening where you are able to get it to be so big sure. Well, we're not following any of the safety recommendations to get it to be that dramatic to show people absolute. Worst case. What can happen did you guys practice? Yeah. Yep. We did find out through practice that the more oil we put in the pot by filling it to the top made. The fireball as big as possible quick science lesson, these frozen turkeys are filled with ice ice of course is water and water does not mix with oil. So when the turkeys hit the oil that ice turns to water turns to steam which pushes the oil out of the pot and when that hits the flame underneath boom, so your basic turkey frying doughnuts are as follows.

1 (49m 29s):
One don't put in a frozen turkey. You should thaw your turkey 24 hours for every five pounds. That's three whole days for 15 pounder to don't put in a wet turkey or two big turkey three don't over fill the pot with oil or over heat the oil for do not do this inside and lastly most fire departments would tell you the most important don't is just please don't deep-fry a turkey at all. Fargo double did all the donts like while some firefighters Heat their demonstration pots to 350 Fargo took Theirs to 700. The pot of oil is obviously already in flames and overflowing before the turkey gets anywhere near it like an active volcano.

1 (50m 22s):
I managed to find the first turkey fire video from 2002. It's called turkey fryer your dinner or your life. It's hosted by this Earnest guy in a hard hat named John Drinkin Berg who is not in it for the fun the fame or the Fireballs. I asked him is he proud of being the originator of this new holiday tradition the turkey explosion video? Okay. First of all, I'm an engineer so they aren't explosions. Oh, okay. I'm sorry. Okay, so what would the The appropriate terminology be flaming oil is being expelled from the turkey fryer. So so how do you feel about being the originator of the tradition of flaming turkey oil videos?

1 (51m 4s):
Yes Not Unusual. It's in keeping with our mission of alerting people to safety issues sure, but you know outside of the mission like what does it make you feel? Like we've accomplished a goal of alerting people to the dangers John works for Underwriters Laboratories. They test products to make sure they're safe. I just walked over to the part of our office that has a toaster and a coffee grinder, and I found UL logos on everything even the light bulbs. And so when John started testing turkey deep fryers at UL in 2002, he found them so egregiously dangerous and prone to failure that they put out a press release calling.

1 (51m 44s):
Stronger turkey fryer guidelines and because most people don't read press releases he figured they had to make a PSA informing people about those dangers too because John sees danger around us all the time and he does not think the turkey videos are Sensational istic in the slightest. I think we tried to show the reality even if you're using it correctly and a dog runs by it or it could bump into the stand and knock the turkey fryer down which would cause Some very serious burns on a pet as well as a child do your friends and family ever. Are you like calling them out and being like, please don't do that and are they like? Oh come on, just chill out about it's fine.

1 (52m 28s):
Well the fact is they call me? Mr. Safety, and I've actually cut a cord off my mother-in-law's fan because it was so that the court was all ready and you know, it was cracked. The insulation was cracked and there was Bare wire on it and I said you can't Like this fan in and she said well, I'm I need it keeps me pool and I said it's not good for you. So I unplugged it myself and I cut the cord off. So she why didn't you just take the fan. Well, I could have done that. So your bit of a worrier. Well, I've got a bit of experience in the field of product safety.

1 (53m 10s):
You have any other really important holiday cautionary tips for us before I let you go. Make sure your smoke alarm is working. Make sure you water your your tree. You have to run your hand along the branches in the tree lot to make sure you don't end up with a handful of needles. If you do the tree is too dry. You should never bring that home. There are statistics you can get by the way Stephanie from places like the consumer product safety Commission on just how many people are injured each year while decorating. I mean, it's like 18,000 people hurt themselves decorating my God. Yeah, we could talk for two hours. If you'd like about cautionary tips. I mean why even celebrated all oh that's we're not crunches here.

1 (53m 55s):
We just want to keep people safe. That's our missions, whatever your holiday and it's not just Christmas. It's Hanukkah. It's Kwanzaa all of that and all of those holidays by the way use candles. I'm going to candles you ready for handles. You handle it John suggests that in lieu of candles this year. Try using LED tea lights instead. And if you think that's too drastic, please go to YouTube right now and type in the words Christmas tree fires and then help John have a Merry Christmas go water your tree.

1 (54m 35s):
Stephanie Foo she's writing a book these days about complex PTSD. We checked by the way with the consumer product safety commission and learned that in the last 10 years there have only been 51 turkey fryer related incidents 51, which means okay, one of two things either number one, the hundreds of turkey fryer videos online are completely unnecessary whenever to the hundreds of turkey fryer Fire videos online. Are working at three The First Noel Andre is six years old and this is his first Christmas with you know, Santa and presence in the whole deal and already it's been like one incredible thing after another till recently.

1 (55m 22s):
He and his little brother Luke who's for had been in an orphanage in the Democratic Republic of Congo and in the orphanage Christmas was not much of a thing. But now that living outside Seattle where it definitely is a thing weeks ago Christmas lights started popping up and they would point to them and say wow Mom look at that. And so we started to explain. Yeah, that's for Christmas is to celebrate Christmas is Jennifer she and her husband adopted Andre and Luke and then we drove through the neighborhood just with the purpose of looking for lights. They were just non-stop. It didn't matter how big the light display was they were

2 (56m 1s):
Mase

1 (56m 8s):
it's obviously from recording they made on that tribe Jennifer and her husband also have two little girls seven and five who you can hear on the

2 (56m 14s):
recording

1 (56m 20s):
and now and wanted to go home and they just couldn't get enough of it. It's been kind of a crash course in the boys arrived in the states. They just got here this November they'd heard some Christmas Basics before this adoption process. Can three years and Jennifer lived with the boys in Kinshasa for most of this year and she talked about Christmas a little bit with the boys, but you know, if you think about it, it is a lot to cover with her girls, you know from the time that they could speak they were basically living in a world with Christmas and Santa and all that but with the boys, it must have been strange for you. You really have to like start at the beginning of walk through like a lot of stuff and it's like right there's your reindeer and there's like there's no it's just really like a kind of a lot to explain right, right.

1 (57m 5s):
Yeah. Yeah, we had to hit a lot of basics who is Rudolph who is even Santa I mean the fact that we had a Christmas tree in our house. Well, and and even though we went to figure out a Christmas tree and then tied this tree onto our car, you know, the little things that we just do every year so we don't really think about it a strange but when you're a kid and you see a tree tied to a car or you're tying it to your own car kid be like Wyatt. What are they doing to the tree? Why are they putting it on the roof? And we opened up the sunroof while he was in there just the window part so he could see it and he just stared at it. And ah, one of the recordings you made is of I guess Andre saying over and over.

1 (57m 51s):
Are you kidding me guys? Are you kidding me guys? You kidding me guys. What's that about? Yeah. I had kept opening new ornaments and seeing a new ornament. He's we have a tradition in our family that we hang up a ornament with a picture of each child each year. So here here they were both really excited to see their own faces on ornaments that they hung them up

2 (58m 12s):
so high.

1 (58m 20s):
Because English is on there. So he usually uses that when he sees something that he really likes going up in the orphanage. Not only did they not have ornaments and trees and Santa didn't get presents. Not for Christmas. Not for birthdays. Yeah, you know, they didn't really have belongings before everything was shared of the orphanage. Neither of them ever asked anybody for a gift or picked out a present to give to somebody. Sonu Of course Christmas is just one of the new things that they're experiencing in their new lives in this country. The orphanage that they lived in was on the outskirts of Kinshasa and didn't have electricity or running water even going to a store was a new experience for the boys when they joined Jennifer's family.

1 (59m 4s):
Everything's amazing right now. So it's not hard to believe that Santa comes and brings you gifts. That's just one of the many things compared with the incredibleness of you know, living in a house with water that comes out of the faucets and up. A room and a family Santa Claus the idea of Santa Claus. That's just really just like one more thing on the list right a guy flies in with a sleigh in the middle of the night with a bag of presents. Why not? It's all kind of amazing if we just let ourselves see it that way.

2 (59m 48s):
He is it all about your family like they say Letting Go your worries for a

1 (59m 56s):
day.

2 (59m 58s):
Is it a star on a tree or a present in a bow? I don't know. Is there any Bell that still Rings true? Tell me what is Christmas to you?

1 (1h 0m 14s):
We're picking my speed is today by Jonathan menjivar was silly Chase on Konya drumming Stephanie feel kinda Jumpy World Mickey make Robin Simeon. It was a shipping Nancy up take our senior producer for today's show was Brian Reed our editors, Joe level. Julie Snyder was her editorial consultant on a baker help reduce our night of improv research help from Chris trosset Allah music help from Damien Gray from Bob Geddes. Our technical director is mr. Matt. Tyranny, the recorded our improv show this week additional production on the rerun from Jessica Lawson hop Catherine raimondo and stone Nelson special. Thanks today to Stewart deputy chief Kevin Ford and the Yonkers fire department Andrew mom and the Bell House original music in today's program was composed by Nico muhly and mixed by Fritz Myers Lucy Wainwright roach and Rebecca pranskey performed the 12 Days of Christmas at the beginning of our show our website This American Life dot-org This American Life is delivered a public radio stations by PRX the public radio exchange sport for This American Life comes from the Lagunitas Brewing Company fueling stories and songs with Lagunitas IPA.

1 (1h 1m 13s):
Say and of course committed to keeping the pub in public radio find out more weren't you at Lagunitas.com. Thanks as always to our programs co-founder. Mr. Tory Mell idea because me regular critiques of our program and you know, it always seems like he's a little confused by the show.

2 (1h 1m 30s):
What? I mean, what do you mean

1 (1h 1m 38s):
Mary glass? Happy holidays everybody. We'll be back next week with more stories of This American Life.