2 (0s):
Hitting podcast listeners over here with a quick message before the show starts couple weeks ago here on our show. We aired a story from the brand new podcast made by one of our producers Hannah joffe walled and our colleagues at cereal that podcast is called nice white parents and I'm coming on here right now to tell you that all five episodes of that podcast are out there in the world. They ready for your binge listening. You can hear the entire thing now it takes you inside of a school in this way that I really do not think anybody's ever done just an incredible. Ori that spans 60 years inside one school building in Brooklyn Hannah who reported this if your regular listener, you know, she's done some of the most memorable stories we've ever put onto This American Life and if you know her story is you know, she has this very I don't know clear-eyed but very generous way of writing about all kinds of people who are in conflict with each other and captures just amazing and revealing moments on tape.

2 (53s):
I really love this new show you can find all five episodes of nice white parents wherever you get your podcast. Okay, I've said enough Here's the shh. And Jeff is 22. He had this real problem with his eyes and doctors had to use lasers to fix vessels that were bleeding at the back of his left eye which worked great but along after or cold bright winter day. He came into his house from the cold and saw this color

3 (1m 22s):
and it was almost like an afterimage like when you look at a bright light. Yeah, and it was a blind spot right where they had put the lasers and instead of seeing Blackness was this Greenish not green is a green that they could never exist. It was fluorescent and it was kind of pulsating and staticy

2 (1m 44s):
at that green but not green,

3 (1m 48s):
you know, actually maybe a better way of describing. It was like if the color blast was fluorescent and green, but I'm just going to say those words back to you if the color black or fluorescent and

2 (2m 2s):
green Yeah, you know that sounds crazy,

3 (2m 5s):
right? Yeah, yeah,

2 (2m 13s):
it has some color seem more energetic like like bright red or bright yellow and others are more peaceful. Like like, you know sort of a Bluegreen see color like what which is this

3 (2m 26s):
it was both. It was both energetic and calming but a lot of the color

2 (2m 35s):
is Greenish, right. It's in the kind of Green family.

3 (2m 40s):
Yeah, it's it is greenish. I remember I bought a bunch of markers a while. You are trying to define a way of representing it to my doctor. And so if you were to try to paint it or Draw it, you would start with a kind of fluorescent green,

2 (2m 52s):
right? And then what would you add to it to add the other part? That is not green. black and like

3 (3m 2s):
like fireworks You just said black and

2 (3m 5s):
fireworks. Yeah, he said that if you've ever had a migraine headache, you can come with a kind of colorful sparkly static. It was like that fireworks. But really he said he's never done a good job describing this. How do you describe a color that only you have seen? Okay. Just which of these things that would you say about this color? What does it remind you of the feeling of punching somebody in the face or more like a soft kiss from somebody Who You're just falling in love with

3 (3m 36s):
or more like warm toast and butter on a cold morning. You know, I have to say of those of those three options you give me I think I only have lots of experience with the third and does the color remind you of that one. You said warm toast and butter on a cold morning. Yeah. Now does the color does it remind you of the feeling of Hope or more feeling of kind of existential dread? Existential dread the color does it remind you at all of the feeling that you get when you're a kid and you get either a hoe hoe or a ding dong and it's sort of cool.

3 (4m 23s):
And so the outside shell of it is perfectly hard and you bite into it and it cracks open and it's soft and chocolatey underneath Um, no the color does it remind you of the feeling of somebody's going to cook something for you and you don't really know if they're good cooker bad cook and then it turns out they're just an amazing cook and everything you eat you think like this is a very good version of this particular thing that I'm eating. Yeah, you know, I it was a little bit more mundane than that. When you see something that nobody else can see it can be terrifying. Jeffrey was scared that maybe something was seriously deteriorating with his vision.

3 (5m 4s):
But once it became clear that he was going to be fine. You're going to be able to see you had this other

2 (5m 7s):
impulse to show his friends share it. Well. Yeah, I used to make

3 (5m 12s):
drawings of it. I used to make drawings of the shapes. Like I used a black pen. And then I did the outline in that fluorescent and you know, it's like yeah, I drove to my friends and they didn't they didn't get it. They didn't think it was that that neat. What would they say? Oh, man, usually usually what I get. Is that interesting? That's the worst. Yeah, but when you see something that other people can your stock I think for most people you want to tell somebody you want to share it you want to do something today in our program. We have three stories of people in this exact situation one involving science one involving comedy one involving angels.

3 (5m 56s):
He's people see something. Nobody else can and they cannot stop themselves. They can't shut up about it though. You be easy Chicago. It's This American Life. I'm Ira Glass stay with us. Equine do these jeans make me look fat less.

1 (6m 24s):
Well, let's kick things off with

2 (6m 25s):
this story of somebody who not only sees Somethin that nobody else sees when she tells other people about the stuff. She sees they don't buy it investigative reporter David Epstein explains. I wrote a book called The Sports Gene. It's partly about how some super athletes are genetically different from the rest of us. They have super genes their physiological freaks. I was deluged with emails from parents wanting to know how they could find out if their child had Michael Jordan jeans a coach wrote offering up his players as guinea pigs for genetic experimentation. There were so many unhinged emails coming in that I pretty much stopped opening them. And then I got this one that had the subject heading Olympic medalist and muscular.

2 (7m 6s):
Be patient with the same mutation. I opened it figuring it would be a link to some article that I've missed in my reporting instead. It was a note from a 39 year old Iowa mother. Her name was Jill vials. She was the muscular dystrophy patient and she had a wild Theory linking her jeans to an Olympic sprinter named Priscilla Lopes sleep and she wanted to send more info sure. I said send it along. Why not? Days Later a package arrived a 19-page Illustrated bound packet. I thumbed through it. It was a little weird hand-drawn diagrams with cutouts of little cartoon weightlifters representing protein molecules old photos of herself and her siblings.

2 (7m 50s):
The original pictures not copies. There was a detailed medical history and it was clear. She knew some serious science. She described in detail how proteins function she referred to gene mutations by their specific DNA addresses the way a scientist would And then I landed on page 14 there were two photos one of Jill in a royal blue bikini sitting on a beach her torso looks normal, but her arms. It's like they're on the wrong body like the stick arms on a snowman her legs to are so thin that are knee joint is wider than her thigh. Those legs can't possibly hold her up, right? I thought The other picture was of Priscilla Lopes Fleet who'd been ranked the best hurdler in the world in 2008.

2 (8m 33s):
She won the bronze medal in the 100-meter hurdles at the Olympics in Beijing in the photo. She's in mid-stride. It's hard to describe just how muscular she looks picture all the muscle you can imagine on a woman now picture more in that photo Priscilla's like the vision of a superhero that a third grader might draw huge muscles bursting from her thighs like your skin can barely contain all the power beneath it. Ropey veins sneaking along our biceps. This is the woman Jill

3 (9m 2s):
believe she shared the same genetic code. Where's kill remember whose arms and legs are like sticks making a move to the Finish. She goes and she will surge across that line a world leading time of 1252. I'll Jill's life doctors have been mystified by

2 (9m 21s):
her case. They had no idea how her muscle disease work much less how to treat it. She did know her disease came from a rare genetic mutation, and she wanted to reach Priscilla because looking at photos of Priscilla seeing her body. She saw clues that made her believe Priscilla had the same mutation in Priscilla did if Jill was right, then scientist might figure out what was making Jill's muscles shrink and Priscilla's muscles balloon, and maybe people like Jill could someday be

3 (9m 47s):
helped.

2 (9m 52s):
The whole thing seemed like a long shot. So I reached out to Robert Greene a geneticist at Harvard who I got to know while writing my book He's important proponent of people being allowed to get their own genetic tests, but after looking at the pictures of Jill and Priscilla, he thought Jill was almost certainly wrong. He doubted they had anything in common and science aside. He had other concerns for one thing, you know, a somewhat famous athlete just like any other celebrity He can become the focal point for an individual for

3 (10m 22s):
various reasons in a very unhealthy way.

2 (10m 25s):
I was concerned that empowering a relationship between these two women could end badly. Yeah. I mean, you know people go off the deep end when they're

3 (10m 36s):
relating to celebrities. They think they have a

2 (10m 39s):
connection to of course. This is a very polite way of saying maybe she's a nut job. I wondered the same thing. How could you not the idea that

3 (10m 49s):
Iowa housewife working off Google

2 (10m 51s):
Images would make a medical discovery about a professional athlete whose body has been obsessively examined for years by a small army of doctors and athletic trainers. It seemed

3 (10m 60s):
pretty ludicrous. But the fact is people with MDS and phds have been telling Jill that

2 (11m 6s):
her theories are ludicrous pretty much her whole

3 (11m 8s):
life. Joe was born in

2 (11m 14s):
1974 at first everything was great. She met all the normal baby milestones. She sat crawled and walked on time then at age four. She started stumbling and tripping all the time constantly falling flat on her face. I would describe this fear. I had about

1 (11m 31s):
witches fingers. This is Jill and you know, my mom was kind of puzzled. What was I talking about witches fingers? What do you mean and when we walked by feel the sensation almost like they were little They were gnarled hands and fingers reaching up and grabbing my shins and I'd fall really forcefully that was kind of the beginning of noticing something was

2 (11m 49s):
different Jill's dad remembered that. He'd had some problems walking around the same age, which is doctors said was the result of a very mild case of polio, but Jill's troubles were much worse than her dad's at ever been and no one could give them an answer. Her pediatrician was stumped. He suggested they take her to the Mayo Clinic. They were stumped there too. They tested the whole family. And found that Jill and her brother and her dad all had signs of muscle damage, but Jill was the only one having trouble walking. It might be muscular dystrophy the doctors thought but that didn't usually show up this way and little girls.

1 (12m 22s):
They were really really sure they'd never seen anything like this. They said our family was extremely unique and they couldn't Define what type it was, you know, ultimately that's good in one way because they're being honest but on the other hand it was terrifying was my life. What are the symptoms that I'll be dealing with? It's alarming. If you don't have something to grasp a hold of

2 (12m 47s):
chill went back to the Mayo Clinic every year and it was always the same. There was nothing the doctors could do nothing knew they could tell her the constant falling eventually stops, but was replaced by a burning sensation in her legs. And while she was growing in height like a normal girl the fat on her arms and legs was Vanishing by the time she was 8 her arms and legs were so skinny that other kids could wrap their fingers around her. Wrists and ankles by age 12 veins were popping out of her legs kids asked how it felt to be old and then her muscles started to fail again.

1 (13m 20s):
I can remember just getting in a fight. I'd always ridden and feeling like someone came up behind me and just threw me into the

2 (13m 26s):
handlebars and got a big bruise across

1 (13m 28s):
my chest from you know, I fall so hard I couldn't hold myself over the

2 (13m 33s):
bike. I just started my

1 (13m 34s):
muscles. It just are quivering and roller skating. I invited a friend to go with me and I can't even stand up on. Skates, and I'm just sitting there going something. That's just something's terribly

2 (13m 44s):
wrong. How rapid how quick was that that you've basically lost the ability to roller skate and ride your bike

1 (13m 50s):
is a public within a few weeks.

3 (14m 1s):
Jill didn't even bother to tell her parents what was happening. She knew there was nothing there the doctors could do about it

2 (14m 6s):
by the end of that summer the symptoms eased up she could walk. Okay again, she started looking for answers on her own. But she did it the way a kid would

1 (14m 15s):
you know, I'm having my body do things that I can't control forces are acting on me and I developed curiosity fascination with things like I would read about poltergeists and I would bring home on two books from the library. I remember it really freaked out my dad at one point because he, you know tip over my book bag and there's all these books about supernatural things and he was like, well you into

2 (14m 42s):
the occult or what,

1 (14m 43s):
you know, it was nothing of the sort it was about I couldn't explain what was going on with me. The doctors couldn't explain and I found these people that people couldn't explain what was happening to them. Totally fascinating. I believe him.

2 (15m 5s):
By the time she went to college Jill had maxed out at five foot three and about 87 pounds. She decided that if she was going to figure out what was happening with her body. She'd have to do it herself. So during Jill's first semester she set up camp in the library. She began pouring over every textbook in scientific journal article. She could find on different kinds of muscle disease.

1 (15m 24s):
So I just thought well, I'll start reading about them one by one and see if something fits

2 (15m 28s):
she did this for months going. By article like a police officer driving up and down every street doing a grid search but nothing really fit until she came to a page in a medical journal about an extremely rare type of muscular dystrophy called Emery Dreyfus

1 (15m 44s):
and then look at the pictures. It was a very startling thing to realize I'm seeing my dad's arm just an instantaneous lock on something that's in your visual memory. What did you see as a little girl? I would notice he had what I called. Popeye arms big forearm and hand muscles and then as I'm reading about every Dreyfus they actually describe the look of the arms as a pulp by arm deformity, but you know, there were very very few photos of women with a Mite Dreyfuss muscular dystrophy

2 (16m 19s):
the journal described the three Hallmarks of Emory Dreyfus patients, they couldn't us their chins their chests or their heels to the floor and their arms were perpetually bent at the

1 (16m 27s):
elbow and I'm you know getting chills read in this thinking life.

3 (16m 31s):
All

1 (16m 31s):
three a really great visual to think about that is shockingly a Barbie doll

2 (16m 37s):
that is elbows that don't bend and feet slanted to fit into high heels

1 (16m 41s):
actually is a terrific representation of what does Emory Dreyfus look like which is very ironic because we give this to little girls and say this is perfect and we're actually handing them a doll that has genetic disorder.

3 (16m 52s):
So when you flip open use in you see these pictures and see these descriptions is

2 (16m 55s):
it like the light bulb just flipped on in this? Is

1 (16m 58s):
it the light bulb I was Was sure, it's Eerie. It's Great, but is terrifying what was very frightening was to read there's true. A lot of cardiac issues involved with this disease

2 (17m 14s):
Henry Dreyfus patients Jill learned often drop dead of heart failure. She became obsessed with reading about it before she went home for college break. She stuffed her bag full of medical books and journal articles. I

1 (17m 25s):
purposely even hid them under several books because I didn't want to alarm anybody at home and I went out in the kitchen long enough to make microwave popcorn and I came back into my my dad was reading. Him and I try to take him away and I'm like just don't, you know, don't read those and he was really sucked into it. And he said well, I have all these symptoms and I said well, yeah, I know the arm thing and the you know the neck and and he said no, he said I have all these cardiac symptoms.

2 (17m 52s):
He'd always thought the stiffness in his muscles and heart troubles were unrelated. He

1 (17m 55s):
said well the doctors told me I had a virus not to worry about it. We both just looked at each other. I said you don't it's not a virus. It's this we have already Dreyfus.

2 (18m 7s):
They went to the Iowa Arts Center where doctors put a heart monitor on Jill's father. His pulse rate dropped below 30 beats per minute, which meant he was either about to win the Tour de France or he was about to drop dead. He had a pacemaker put in immediately.

1 (18m 19s):
She saved her dad's life. I mean just absolutely

2 (18m 22s):
amazing. This is Joe's mom Mary.

1 (18m 24s):
It wasn't for her Howard we've ever known this and I remember being in the hospital that day and I think he He was just in awe of chill and

2 (18m 37s):
you know, just love total total of four. Gel

1 (18m 42s):
but I think it was a hard burden for her because it just seemed like you know, someone else was looking

2 (18m 50s):
the Iowa Arts Center wasn't set up to confirm whether or not her family at Emory Dreyfus that wasn't their specialty.

3 (18m 56s):
So she went looking for someone who could

2 (18m 58s):
remember she was 19.

1 (19m 0s):
Well, I went to the neurology clinic. I can remember even what I wore that day. I dressed up as professional as I could. I wanted to be taken seriously. I mean I had on a Navy pant suit and tried to present the Articles to my neurologist. And

2 (19m 18s):
how did you even start that conversation? How do you make your

1 (19m 20s):
case? I just said I'd been studying genetics. I've been spending a great deal of time in the library and I've come across these photos and I am sure this is what we have and this is this is the name and could you look at these with me? And the doctors just was very abrupt with me and said no, you don't have that and refuse to look at the papers.

2 (19m 42s):
It might seem rude that a doctor would refuse even to look but at the time most doctors believed Emery Dreyfus only occurred in men. Also, this was a self-diagnosis coming from a teenager the defiant teenager

1 (19m 55s):
there was times that when I was in the doctor's office, I would see my chart and it would just list diagnosis muscular dystrophy unknown etiology. I hated seeing that I'd literally just take a pen on my person. I scratched it out and I'd write Emery Dreyfus Muscular Dystrophy and my mom would see me do that. Just like you cannot can't change your chart. And you know, I want it listed what I

3 (20m 18s):
have. You know reading binge Jilla come across a group of researchers working out of Italy. They were looking for families with Emory Dreyfus to study

2 (20m 32s):
hoping to locate the gene that causes the disease Jill decided to write to them she mapped out a family tree noting the symptoms. She saw in her father two younger brothers and a younger sister, then she stripped down to her underwear

1 (20m 44s):
and that I set the timer on my camera and I took pictures of myself because I thought well if that's how I identified it. Let me send a picture and just inquired. Want to take a look at our

2 (20m 55s):
family up to this point the Italians had only collected for other families to study. So they were thrilled to hear from Jill and they immediately wrote back from the letter. It seems like they think she's a scientist who has access to a lab. They asked can you send us DNA if you cannot prepare DNA just send fresh blood but 19 year old Jill soon learned. You can't just go to the local hospital and say draw my blood. I want to send it to Europe. So Joe convinced a nurse friend to smuggle needles and test tubes to her house. They filled them up with samples of her family's blood and shipped them off to Italy

3 (21m 32s):
today. You can sequence an entire genome in a few days. But back in the mid-1990s not so much. It was four years before Jill heard

2 (21m 40s):
something definitive back from the Italians. They confirmed she had Emery Dreyfus. She'd been right all these years despite everyone telling her

1 (21m 47s):
otherwise one day I open email and there it was and that was a weird feeling to realize. Okay. This is it and I clicked on And they told me that name of the G and I was nuclear lamin

2 (21m 59s):
the researchers had discovered the genetic cause of Jill's illness a gene called the lamin gene wood makes the lamb and Gene really important is that it affects the command center inside every cell in your body. This turns other genes on and off like light switches changing the way they build fat and muscle. Jill's lamin Gene has a typo in it a serious one along the spiraling ladders of her DNA the three billion GST essays and sees the makeup Jill's genome. She had one letter in the wrong

3 (22m 28s):
place and it's just

1 (22m 29s):
almost Darkly comical to think seriously, you know on this quest to find out. Okay. Well what happened exactly as it comes down to a g was changed to a

2 (22m 39s):
scene. Soon after Jill got an internship in a lab at Johns Hopkins. It was mapping diseases associated with the lamb and Gene the lab director of heard about Jill's research on herself and saw chance to have not only a dogged intern in the lab. But also their very own real-life lamin mutant Jill's job was to sift through scientific journals and find any references that had been linked to a lamb in mutation. Sitting there day after day reading she came across incredibly rare disease a disorder called partial lipodystrophy. It causes the arms and legs to look as if all the fat on them has been melted away leaving veins and muscle to stand out looking at photos of patients with the disease.

2 (23m 25s):
All Jill could think was that these people looked like her family members. Could you loan her family have not just one but two rare genetic diseases the odds of getting one of them was one in a million the odds of getting the other is one in at least a And the odds of getting both together

3 (23m 42s):
there haven't been enough human beings in the history of our species that anyone should ever get both. So just like before when Jill discovered Emery

2 (23m 56s):
Dreyfus, she zeroed in on a photo in a medical article in Saw herself in it and just like before she tried to get confirmation from doctors. She tried to tell scientists that she had the second rare disorder partial lipodystrophy and just like before they said no, they said that statistically there was very little chance that could be true instead. They diagnosed her with something a little more common.

1 (24m 19s):
They didn't necessarily Laugh at me but we're kind of incredulous that no, you don't have that and they even kind of described it as intern syndrome where you have a medical student that's being introduced to a lot of new diseases and they keep thinking they have what they're reading about. I just thought well, I must be wrong. I think I too was buying into that idea that that's quite a reach to think that you have the second genetic disorder because it's over. Are too I just kind of thought well, maybe I'm just beyond that. So I kind of backed away from that even though it was kind of a Deja Vu feeling

3 (25m 5s):
so she dropped it. She stopped reading about this new disease and before long she stopped doing research into Emory Dreyfus to mostly because the research she was doing started to freak her out in the case studies.

2 (25m 16s):
He read the average person with Emory. Dreyfus was dead by their early 40s. She was 25 and anxiety over this was Landing her in the

1 (25m 24s):
hospital. I had to panic attacks that were brought on by the stress of reading all of these things that they just died suddenly and I went to a counselor for a while. I worked with my cardiologist and we decided it was just too much information. It wasn't healthy. So I really just didn't look up things didn't read articles and I really got to the point that I decided I want to go on with My own life

2 (25m 52s):
so she went cold turkey no more medical research. No more DIY diagnosis. She took a job as a writing instructor at local community colleges and taught adult education classes at night. She started dating eventually meeting the man who would become her husband. And even though there was a 50/50 chance that she would pass on the Emory Dreyfus gene mutation. They decided to have a child her pregnancy was normal and her baby Martin does. Not have the disease, but after he was born Jill really deteriorated physically, if you ever had a muscle twitch, you know how strange it feels to not have control of your body Jill's muscle started twitching from head to toe sometimes for hours at a time and she was suddenly having to hold on to her husband to steady yourself

1 (26m 37s):
the best way I can describe with what it was like it would be like we're gravity is getting incredibly heavy and it's sometimes turns up the knob and you know, you think of how high would they have to turn up this gravity that I can't? Get up off the floor by myself. I can't stand upright. I can't take a step. You know, it's a tremendous amount of force pushing on the body

2 (26m 59s):
by Martin's first birthday. She could barely walk

1 (27m 2s):
one day. He was calling that he wanted macaroni and cheese and I knew like I was you know, I was like six steps to take my I realized this is the this is it this is the last six steps. I'm going to take I just knew I was at that point that I was going to not be able to get up

2 (27m 20s):
again. At the same time Jill's father was also losing his ability to walk

3 (27m 24s):
so father and daughter transition to life in motorized scooters.

2 (27m 28s):
Jill says, her dad was discouraged for the first time in his life

3 (27m 32s):
after a visit with a neurologist. He told her I feel like I go there just to be

2 (27m 36s):
weighed then one day she got a call from her mom and it was about Dad. He just

1 (27m 42s):
moved from his scooter into his favorite chair. He said to my mom he just felt tired and then he simply just thought his had in.

3 (27m 50s):
I

1 (27m 51s):
didn't read it again. And he died. He had a sudden cardiac death and what age was that he was

2 (27m 57s):
63 and the day he passed away Jill and her siblings and relatives gathered at her parents house.

1 (28m 3s):
After most of the people had gone. It was kind of slowing down and my sister said I got I got this to show you she starts pulling up pictures of this extremely muscular athlete and I just took one look at it and just kind of went we don't what you know, we don't have that. I mean, what are you talking

2 (28m 21s):
about? This of course was Priscilla at first you'll didn't get it didn't see any connection with the muscle-bound athlete. It had been 12 years since she went cold turkey on medical research but a week later Jill got curious. She started Googling pictures of Priscilla not just running photos, but shots of her at home doing regular things like feeding her daughter baby food.

1 (28m 43s):
It helps seeing the clothing on her. Just seeing how it fit. It was just unmistakable. It's like a computer that can analyze Is a photograph and get a match and be a hundred percent. Sure. That's the same shoulder. That's the same upper arm. I see the same veins. I see them branching this way. You just know and that's hard to convey. How could you just know but I knew we were very likely Cut From the Same Cloth very very very rare cloth.

2 (29m 14s):
It was the third time Jill saw something in a photo other people didn't see it happen with Emory Dreyfus. It happened with lipodystrophy. Now. She saw that she and Priscilla were both missing fat in the same places on their arms and legs. They had the exact same muscle divisions in the exact same places in the hips and but Jill was certain this was because they shared a mutant Gene and the only question was why did the gene blow up Priscilla with muscles and take jobs away.

1 (29m 41s):
This is My Kryptonite, but it's her Rocket Fuel. I mean, we're we're like, you know comic book superheroes that are

3 (29m 50s):
Is

1 (29m 50s):
just a virgin as could be I mean, her body is found a way around it

2 (29m 56s):
somehow I know that sounds like a plot of a Hollywood movie. In fact, it's totally the plot of unbreakable the Bruce Willis Samuel L. Jackson film

3 (30m 6s):
Jackson glaze a broken bone physically fragile

2 (30m 8s):
man searching for his genetic opposite

3 (30m 11s):
a man born. So strong his body will survive any physical trauma in the final scene Jackson tells Willis that he's the guy, you know makes sense. In a comment, you know how you can tell who the Arts building is going to be. He's the exact opposite of the hero. So do you want to do in this Priscilla and her genetic detective work

2 (30m 35s):
but there was a practical problem. She had no idea how to go about reaching

1 (30m 39s):
her mean I've had crazy ideas. Like can I fly to Canada and show up at a meet and greet and try to talk to her and it's if you're on this motorized scooter and it's like, you know, you're just gonna end up the restraining order at best. I mean people will think you're crazy, you know, I was just trying to resign myself to the fact that well, you know, what am I going to

2 (30m 57s):
do? A full year passed and then Jill happened to be an earshot of her television when I started yammering about athletes and

3 (31m 5s):
genetics on Good Morning America find the best fit for your unique genome and then specialize in the mid teen

1 (31m 10s):
years old. This is just Divine Providence. This is exactly what I'm looking for

2 (31m 17s):
Jill reach out to me with a request and I did happen to have a way to get it to Priscilla through her agent.

1 (31m 23s):
It was such an odd request. Is this really out there right

2 (31m 26s):
this of course is Priscilla.

1 (31m 28s):
He's just This lady she's an Iowa just says she has the same gene as you and once I have a conversation, I was kind of like I don't know Chris and these just have a conversation like see were

2 (31m 41s):
cows Jolson Priscilla the same bound packet that she sent me and it wasn't any of the cryptic science that got to Priscilla. It was a childhood stories Jill shared about kids pointing at the veins in her legs. Priscilla said, she always used to come home sad and crying she'd ask her parents.

1 (31m 56s):
Can I get the veins removed from my legs because As you know, the boys are making fun of me just like if your legs are veiny you like. Why does it look like that?

2 (32m 6s):
Once she grew up? The finger-pointing didn't end it just morphed when people see huge shredded muscles like Priscilla's on an athlete. It usually means one thing steroids and Priscilla has been dogged by doping rumors since College after she won the Olympic bronze medal in Beijing some media outlets in Europe began to openly accuse her and of course, there were the not so furtive glances

1 (32m 28s):
you'd walk by And people kind of like would whisper like oh look at her glutes and look at her look at her arms or her shoulders her calves and just like oh, oh look look, look, it's more like on and I remember there was one pictures put up. They put like a big

2 (32m 42s):
dudes face on my body

1 (32m 45s):
and I was just and he's just like kind of like I'm lifting because my I'm like running and pushing towards the finish line. So I'm using every ounce every inch, you know, every like just piece of energy in my body to get to that finish line. That was pretty messed up and I was really pissed about that and they just I got tested like I felt like I was targeted because I got tested so much for track and field and I think a lot of people really honestly truly believe that I was taking stories

2 (33m 13s):
at the world championships in Berlin in 2009.

3 (33m 15s):
Priscilla was drug tested just minutes before winning a silver medal. There's not even supposed to be any drug testing that close to the race

2 (33m 23s):
then the following month at a meet in Greece.

3 (33m 25s):
Someone stole their training Journal out

2 (33m 26s):
of her bag. It was at the very bottom underneath

3 (33m 29s):
Expensive workout clothes

2 (33m 30s):
and shoes none of which were taken. Why steal a training Journal as someone who's covered a lot of doping stories? I'm convinced someone thought the journal contained her steroid regimen

3 (33m 43s):
Priscilla and Jill spent a lot of time talking on the phone in eight

2 (33m 47s):
months after I first put them in touch. They finally met in person in Toronto where Priscilla lived they picked a hotel lobby Jill arrived first.

1 (33m 56s):
So I got to be a few minutes past the time we were going to meet and then Couple more minutes and I started to get really scared some like I have so much riding on this. I was just watching the doors like okay is this her is this her? You know, I wasn't sure and I see this lady that oh my gosh. This is like seeing family

2 (34m 13s):
Priscilla felt the same

1 (34m 14s):
way. It really was just like a wow moment. Like do I know you gotta they like, how do you so then we start talking kind of just just giggling about like, okay. I'm gonna Flex for you and then she's like, you know, it's a little harder for it. Our sweater also deploy. No sweat off to show me 60. I do have said I do have the definition to I'm like, but you do you do but she's like with lot smaller than yours and then we kind of giggle and but it was still like okay. There's something real there something here. Let's research let's find out because how could the gene do this to you and do this to me? That's that was where my question was and like

2 (34m 52s):
how it took a year to find a doctor to test Priscilla. Finally Jill went to a medical conference. An approach the foremost expert in lipodystrophy. Dr. Avi Manu Garg who runs a lab at University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center. He agreed to do the testing the results showed that Jill had been right. She and Priscilla do have a genetic connection. They each have a single typo on the same one of our 23,000 genes the lamin gene. It's not the exact same typo, but they're almost right next to each other that splinter of distance and typos location makes the difference between Jill's muscles and Priscilla's muscles. It's why Joe has Emery Dreyfuss and Priscilla doesn't but dr.

2 (35m 34s):
Garg also found that they do share a disease. They both have the exact same rare subtype of lipodystrophy the disease the wastes away fat Jill have been told it had nothing to do with her back when she was a summer intern at Johns Hopkins Jilla been right about that all along. Dr. Guard called Priscilla immediately to give her the news he caught her the mall shopping with her

1 (35m 55s):
kids and I was just dreaming about going and getting a big juicy burger fries and dr. Guard calls me and says I have your results. I'm like, okay and then I was like, can I call you back? Because I'm in the mall right now. He goes no, it's kind of important. Are you about to go eat lunch? And I was like, yes, he's like, you're only allowed to have salad. You're on track for a pancreas attack and I was like, see what

2 (36m 21s):
Then he told Priscilla the despite her rigorous training regimen her untreated lipodystrophy left her with 15 times the normal amount of fat in her blood her next hamburger could land her in the emergency room. She was that close in other words. Once again Jill

3 (36m 36s):
steered someone away from a medical disaster. She'd save your Dad's

2 (36m 40s):
life now using The Cutting Edge medical tool known as Google Images. She caused the most intense medical intervention in the life of this professional athlete.

1 (36m 48s):
That's what I just like. Oh my gosh like If this wasn't for Jill, I would definitely have been in the hospital and I called her and I told her I was like you pretty much a saved me from having to go to the hospital and she goes what I go doctor Garg told me that I had the Gene and my numbers are like out of the roof

3 (37m 10s):
scientists can learn all sorts of things by studying

2 (37m 12s):
very rare genetic diseases for instance research on a rare gene mutation that gives people freakishly low cholesterol levels led to a drug that treats high. All in all timers treatment might come from studying a small group of people in Iceland. They have a super rare mutation that protects their brains recently a group of scientists started something called the Matchmaker exchange. It's a kind of OKCupid for rare diseases where people can share genetic and symptom information with each other and doctors. The hope is that it will spark new discoveries. It's just the the we bowl of Jesus that of making things possible that at the end of a molecular biologist. Just in France. He does super technical work on a protein with the lovely name srebp one.

2 (37m 57s):
It affects fat storage and his research team showed that messing around with it can create mice with almost no muscle at all or potentially little rodent Schwarzenegger's when Jill first reached him. She told him that he may have found the actual biological mechanism that makes her in Priscilla so different. Okay that that's drag is kind of Reflection from my side saying that's a really good question. That's a really weird. Really good question because I have no idea of what I can do with genetic disease before she contact me. Now. I have changed path of my team research subject. And this is only because still contact me

3 (38m 40s):
two years ago is totally awesome and have you ever had the experience of someone outside the scientific Community

2 (38m 48s):
affecting your research agenda in this kind of way.

3 (38m 52s):
In my last note people from outside coming and giving me cops new idea. I have no other example of this kind of things, you know, maybe happen once in a scientific life. Of course, this is so different than the skepticism deals gotten from

2 (39m 13s):
scientists and doctors for decades. I

3 (39m 16s):
check back in with one of the

2 (39m 17s):
doubters Robert Greene, you know, the geneticist at Harvard First talk to who was so incredulous about any genetic connection between Jill and Priscilla. I emailed him the results of Priscilla's genetic test. Oh, I was knocked over. I was completely and utterly astounded and I remember thinking I was

3 (39m 35s):
I was ashamed that I

2 (39m 37s):
had doubted this individual because she turned out to have a remarkable discovery about a week after I talked to doctors green and Le Fay. I played those conversations back for Jill. Could you hear that? Okay,

1 (39m 52s):
yeah.

2 (39m 57s):
And so what's in your mind when you hear that?

1 (40m 1s):
If it really does feel really good. Wow, it's kind of like at this weight come off of me some I'm exhausted emotionally and intellectually and in every way possible and I am so happy, you know, I don't want to be the crazy person that's on the internet all the time coming in. You know, I really feel confidence. We can go somewhere with this and I got some really great people

2 (40m 33s):
Jill says, she's proved her Point. She says she's retiring from Why medical research she gave me the same line that professional athletes use

3 (40m 41s):
I want to spend more time with my family,

2 (40m 44s):
but her mother doesn't believe she's retiring nor does dr. Le Fay and I certainly don't believe her recently Jill send me an email. She picked up on a tidbit in a very technical scientific paper about potentially reversing muscular dystrophy. I don't want to read too much into this she wrote me, but of

3 (41m 1s):
course, I'm curious. David Epstein the book that he wrote the kicked out of this office called the sports Gene inside the science of extraordinary athletic performance and he wrote an update about Jill and Priscilla in his book range-wide. General was Triumph and a specialized world. Today's Show is a rerun and in the

2 (41m 29s):
years since we first ran this story as predicted Jill has gone back to the research game. She has a Blog called it DIY scientist dot blog. She still talks to Priscilla. He's not retired from track and field

3 (41m 44s):
scientists at a genetic sequencing company in the UK heard our story about Jill and Priscilla and they reached out to jail and offered her a whole genome sequencing

2 (41m 52s):
and then they flagged a variant in the

3 (41m 54s):
genus mad 7 this

2 (41m 56s):
discovery LED

3 (41m 57s):
Joe becoming a candidate for gene therapy

2 (42m 1s):
coming up. Okay, you know how we started today's program with the color green. That was not green after the break Tig Notaro finds a joke. It is also not a joke. That's when WBEZ Chicago when our program continues this american guy from Ira Glass each week in the program. Of course, you choose a theme bring you different kinds of stories on that theme Today Show something only I can see we have stories of people who spot something that no one else has noticed and then feel compelled to tell somebody show somebody do something about it. We've arrived at two of our program back to mom jokes.

3 (42m 37s):
So comedians don't usually laugh at your own jokes as a rule.

2 (42m 40s):
It's gauche makes things less funny as a rule but as Van Halen one said rules are for fools. Al's take a taro has been on the program before should ultimately Updike a few years back before coronavirus about a rule-breaking addition to one of her stand-up shows as we know 58% of all important events in America start in the car

1 (43m 2s):
TIG and her fiancee Stephanie

2 (43m 3s):
were driving along with

1 (43m 5s):
her mother her sister my stepfather and my brother and we were in New Orleans and it's a big car. Yeah, we had an SUV. And my fiance her mother was telling us this joke that she had come up with and in trying to tell the joke that she had made up. She was laughing so hard she couldn't get the joke out this one on for a couple of minutes laughing catching her breath almost starting to tell the joke and then more uncontrollable laughing until And in the car was laughing just watching her trying to tell the joke.

1 (43m 51s):
Like I don't know that I've ever written a joke. That's funny. This is

3 (43m 56s):
like, right. This is my job

1 (43m 58s):
and I have never made somebody laughing. Yes, you are making your own self. Laughs exactly. It's like what come on Carol. What is this joke? And then TIG had a

2 (44m 13s):
vision of what needed to happen at her neck stand up show

1 (44m 17s):
it became very apparent to me. I just thought Oh my gosh, I have to have her on my show to tell her joke, whatever it is before he got to the joke before she even told me that's why she was laughing. Yeah. Oh my gosh immediately. Oh boy, um. Coming to the stage, please. Welcome my girlfriend's mother Carol Ashton.

3 (44m 58s):
Two weeks after the car ride. Take made her vision come true, Carol walks onto the stage at a comedy club in Los Angeles called Largo. She's not in jeans. She's not in comedy club casual. She's a tasteful mom in cropped

1 (45m 13s):
white pant carrying her purse. She is a civilian. Yeah, how you feeling? Well, I can't really describe how I'm feeling because I've never felt this emotion before so I don't know what it is. You just bummed everyone out Harold. Carol knew two things about her own joke when she walked onto the stage. She knew that it was not a very good joke. She told TIG went egg was trying to convince her to come on stage. She said this is nuts. Nobody's gonna laugh. Carol also knew that she herself could not tell the joke without laughing.

1 (45m 57s):
She was living the mystery many of us have lived the all the way inside joke the joke that is funny Beyond Reason in your head and you cannot communicate the funniness because you don't even understand it. That's what Carol new

2 (46m 11s):
so she was nervous.

1 (46m 13s):
Can you tell me how and when you thought of the joke? Okay. Well first I would feel a lot more comfortable if I left. No, actually actually I would feel a lot less uncomfortable if you told her on left. Yeah, but if you told them this was not my idea. Oh, they know that one. Was there one person? at all Here tonight do not be shy raise your hand if you think Carol Ashton said, hey TIG is Carol.

1 (47m 9s):
I've got sand up that is going to blow your mind Carol. I can't just put you on stage at Largo. Wait till you hear the joke kid. kid must be good. Nobody here thinks that you asked to be here. Were you driving along and the idea came to yeah, I was driving alone. And I got this great idea. I thought this is a very funny joke, which is why you're here tonight Terrell first.

1 (47m 56s):
I have to explain those kind of like a go ahead. Well that it up that it's like a play on words. You know, oh and it's good to explain what genre the joke is don't let them figure it out. You tell them tell them Carol. Well what Stephanie said it's like that Lou Gehrig joke where it's Chi what are the odds of little carrot getting Lucas disease. It's that kind of joke. All right. We got the genre down. So I'm driving along and it came to me about the only problem here is it's about somebody that's not really in the news one never really in the news.

1 (48m 49s):
But in the public eye anymore. Okay, so it is out of date. Yeah, it's out of date. That's the downside. All right, so we got the genre we have established that this is completely out of date material. And so since you're the comedian not right now I of course everything Carol is doing is usually comedy death explaining the joke exposing the Machinery of it and she is killing. Should I say who the joke is about? Well, that's necessary. Right? It's your joke.

1 (49m 29s):
I okay. So the joke is about Paris Hilton see what I mean like Paris Hilton. Yeah. You know, it's actually so so yeah, it's about Paris Hilton. And so this is the joke who would name their kid. That was always

3 (49m 57s):
part of the joke.

1 (49m 60s):
She loves herself for two minutes. Carol's rocking backward and slap.

3 (50m 6s):
Her knees she's laughing so hard she has

1 (50m 9s):
spent the last 10 minutes giving caveat laying out everything the joke has going against it why it's no good. And then when the joke comes into her head as she's about to

3 (50m 19s):
tell it none of that matters.

1 (50m 28s):
after a hotel chain I know the same people that would name their kid after a famous city in friends. I think it's so funny.

3 (50m 53s):
Ladies and gentlemen, Carol Ashton.

1 (51m 2s):
In I when I got off stage that night, I don't know if it was Flanagan the owner of Largo, but somebody was like I think that was the biggest response that they'd ever heard in that room. It was almost like one of the biggest comedians in the world made a

2 (51m 25s):
guest appearance on my show all jokes start is inside jokes inside someone's head. Some of

1 (51m 33s):
them make it out into the world and catch on and that's

2 (51m 35s):
comedy the way it usually works.

1 (51m 38s):
This was a rare chance to root for the other

2 (51m 40s):
kind of joke the non-starter

1 (51m 43s):
the crush. No one understands including you your rational brain can make its rational argument. And then what you stop having feelings, you don't

2 (51m 54s):
understand. No. Except I wanted to do his of our program click that Arrow has a new podcast and advice show called Don't Ask TIG. It is available. Now, wherever you get your podcast at three Earth Angel, so we close today's program with this story about somebody who sees and believe something that nobody else does permit car carrot?

2 (52m 36s):
It's red Forest by actor.

3 (52m 37s):
It's Kapowski on Bernadette Avenue right next to the central bus station. There's a hole in the wall. There used to be an ATM there once but it broke or something or else nobody ever used it. So the people from the bank came in a pickup and took it and never brought it back. Somebody once told 2D that if you scream a wish into this whole it comes true, but you didn't really buy that the truth is that once on his way home from the movies. He screamed into the hole in the wall that he wanted Daphne room all to fall in love with him and nothing happened. And once when he's feeling really lonely he screamed into the hole in the wall that he wanted to have an angel for a friend and an angel really did show up right after that, but he was never much of a friend.

3 (53m 22s):
I need always disappear just when Rudy really needed them. The single was skinny and I'll stooped and he wore trench coat the whole time to hide his wings people on the street were sure he was a hunchback sometimes when they're just the two of them. He take the coat off. Once he even let Rudy touch the feathers on his wings, but when there was anyone else in the room, he always kept it on kids asked him once what he had in his coat and he said his a backpack full of books that didn't belong to him and that he didn't want them to get wet. Actually he lied all the time. He told Duty such stories you could throw up about places in heaven about people who when they go to bed at night. Leave the keys in the ignition about cats who aren't afraid of anything and don't even know the meaning of Scat the stories he made up with something else and to top it all he crossed his heart and hope to die.

3 (54m 22s):
Booty was nuts about him and always tried hard to believe him even lend him some money a couple of times when he was hard up as for the angel. He didn't do a thing to help booty. He just talked and talked and talked rambling off as harebrained stories in the six years. He knew him booty never saw him so much as rinse it glass. When I was in the Army and basic training and really needed someone to talk to the angel suddenly disappeared on him for two solid months. Then he came back with an unshaven. Don't ask what happened face. So who didn't ask and on Saturday they sat around on the roof in their underpants. Just taking in the Sun and feeling low. Hoody looked at the other roof tops with a cable hookups and the solar heaters and the sky it occurred to him.

3 (55m 8s):
Suddenly that in all their years together. He'd never once seen the angel fly. How about flying around a little he said to the angel would make you feel better and the angel said forget it. What if someone sees me be a sport Odie nagged just a little for my sake but the angel just made this disgusting noise from the inside of his mouth. Got a Gob of spit and white flama that are covered roof. Never mind what he salt. I bet you don't know how to fly. Anyway. Sure. I do the angel shot back. I just don't want people to see me. That's all. On the roof across the way they saw some kids throwing a water bomb.

3 (55m 49s):
You know, who he smiled once when I was little before I met you I used to come up here a lot and throw water bombs on people in the street below a tame them into the space between that awning and the other one he explained bending over the railing and pointing down at the narrow gap between the awning over the grocery store and the one over the shoe store. People would look up and all they could see was the awning. It wouldn't know where I was coming from. The angel got up to and looked down into the

2 (56m 17s):
street. He opened his mouth to say something.

3 (56m 20s):
Suddenly Ludi gave him a little shove from behind and the angel lost his

2 (56m 24s):
balance Voodoo was just fooling around.

3 (56m 27s):
He didn't really mean to hurt the angel just to make him fly a little for

2 (56m 30s):
laughs. But the angel drop the whole five floors like a sack of

3 (56m 35s):
potatoes. stunned Woody Watson lying there on the sidewalk below his whole body was completely still except the wings that were still fluttering a little That's when he finally understood that of all the things the angel I told them nothing was true. That he wasn't even an angel just a liar with wings house Kapowski reading. I've got carrots story hole in the wall, which is collected in his book of short stories called the bus driver. Wanted to be God.

3 (57m 33s):
But bigger mystery study by Stephanie coup is Zoe Chase on Colonial drumming Hong gipyo Mickey make Jonathan menjivar Robin seminal piece of shit. Matt. Tyranny and Nancy Updike. Our senior producer for today's program is Brian Reed editing help for today's show from Joe level when Julie Snyder research up from Christopher. So tawa and Wilfong music up today from Damien great from Rob get has additional production help with this rerun from nor Gil and cap. And raimondo special. Thanks today to John pemble. Heidi Rehm Stephanie Ogburn and Jennifer almond Jeff Antman heard it beginning of our program. The guy who saw a green that was not green. That was an artificial lens in his left eye. He says the green Colour sensation is mostly gone except for very rare situations where he goes from extremely cold places to very warm ones.

3 (58m 14s):
Jeff has no idea why that happens. Jeff is host of here be monsters a podcast about fear in the unknown our website This American Life dot-org This American Life is to give the public Efficient by PRX the public radio exchange sport This American Life comes from Sitka salmon chairs community supported fishery delivering seasonal shares of traceable sushi-grade. Wild Alaskan sea food. What about their small boat fleet find recipes and order at Sitka salmon shares not calm. Thanks as always to our programs co-founder. Mr. Tory meltia, you know, he and I were on a flight together. We got delayed on the tarmac for three hours it got to the point where Troy started.

3 (58m 54s):
Going out to the cockpit and heckling the pilot. How about flying around a little but make you feel better. I'm Ira Glass back next week with more stories of This American Life.

2 (59m 21s):
Mexican podcast when you're welcome public radio station during a public meeting in Provo, Utah. Here's how the audience

3 (59m 28s):
reacted when a teacher testified that every student needed to wear a face mask to school.

1 (59m 35s):
It was just wild to be surrounded by so many grown adult. Who were All shouting at me.

3 (59m 40s):
Yeah and just wearing a mask in that space But A Target on your head immediately. Let's go finally began. What happened did kids wear masks next week on the podcast of This American

2 (59m 52s):
Life.