2 (1s):
Support for This American Life comes from the Capital One Saver Card earn four percent cash back on dining and entertainment 2% at grocery stores and one percent on all other purchases. Now when you go out you cash in Capital One what's in your wallet terms apply and from square square is more than a credit card reader. It's a whole system of tools built to grow any kind of business from invoicing to online stores. Go to square.com. / go / American to see how you can take your business from square one to whatever's next.

2 (41s):
WBZ Chicago, it's This American Life from Ira Glass and I tell you about to police investigations. One of them is done. So inspiring me. Well, it's like the detectives in it are like detectives on a television show smart and resourceful and great judgment and just please at their very best the other case same crime. Lots of the same facts is the opposite goes terribly in the investigation that goes wrong goes wrong in a very unusual way. It's like a game of telephone or one misunderstanding begets another misunderstanding begets another until something that is not true spreads to an entire community of people and somehow hardens into the truth and happens incredibly fast.

2 (1m 22s):
It happens in just three days. And just get in front of this crime that going to be talking about this hour is a sexual assault if that's a trigger for you consider this a warning and one of the first phone calls in this chain comes right after the crime. This is back in August 2008. A woman named Shannon was standing on her balcony and Seattle suburb when you got the phone call was from an 18 year old. She knew named Marie who told her she'd been woken up in the Night by a stranger who raped her

1 (1m 49s):
and I you know, I asked her are you okay, and she you know said she was okay and that she was going to be staying I think with her friend that night and when my husband got home I told him what had happened, but I said, I don't know that it happened. There's something about how she said it that just made me question whether or not she'd actually been raped. It was a tone of her voice. There was just no emotion. It was like she was telling me that she'd made a sandwich.

1 (2m 30s):
I just made myself a chicken sandwich

2 (2m 33s):
Jennifer awful shouting Marie. She know Marie for years. Marie was a foster child it stayed with Shannon her husband very briefly just a couple weeks when she was younger and it all hit it off and she said closer with Marie even after Marie went to live in another foster home. They'd hang out together cook together. They give up carbs together for a few weeks Shannon gloved Marie. She saw herself in Murray. They were like and lots of ways. There's actually part of a doubt. Mary was emotional. She did cry like

1 (3m 4s):
Shannon if I had been raped I would have been a starkel. I have been crying really upset. Because I was sexually abused as a child. And I was sexually assaulted as an adult. And I never told anyone for years and years. And when I did tell someone I was hysterical emotional and crying and chain.

2 (3m 39s):
But China was wrong about Marie Curie had been raped his briefing later beyond a shadow of a doubt and the way her case went wrong. You know, we've all heard stories about police not believing women who come forward and say that they were sexually assaulted but in this case the doubts began not with the police, but with people much closer to Marie people who love her and of the best intentions towards her because wrong in this case is something so personal. It's like people exercising empathy and getting it wrong and then that mistake spreads to officials and friends and acquaintances until it is impossible for them all to see the truth. Even when new proof comes to light it when it's all right there in front of them.

2 (4m 22s):
Today's Show is a re-run of an investigation. We did back in 2016 in partnership with The Marshall Project propublica. And the reason that we re running it today is because this story became the basis for this new series on Netflix called unbelievable. It's been out now for a couple weeks and Netflix takes liberties with some of the facts in the characters, but most of the pot and a lot of the details of what really happened to Marie are in the show the first part of our story takes place mostly in Lynnwood Washington near Seattle investigative reporter Ken Armstrong, who did this reporting for The Marshall Project and one of our producers Robin semyon explain how all this unfolded starting with can you explain a little more about Marie Marie gets along with people.

2 (5m 3s):
She's good at it. It's important to her. She moved around a lot when she was a kid in the foster care system. She thinks ten or eleven different families not including group homes. But she did well in a group looked forward to high school loved your classes like to hide can go to the beach with her friends really got into photography at 18. She was proud of herself for surviving the foster care system. Got a job at Costco her own

1 (5m 27s):
apartment. It was just nice to be on my own and not have all the rules that I had had when being in foster care and it was just like Freedom. So it was just awesome.

2 (5m 40s):
She kept in touch with previous Foster families like Shannon and her last foster. Mom Peggy Shannon was the fun adult memories life. They were goofballs together. They have sleepovers at Shannon's house laughs a lot. Peggy who been Reese foster mom from 16 to 18 was more serious and teacher Lee more tough. Love more worried about Marie's big personality and free spirit getting in the way of Murray's becoming a responsible young adult. Peggy lifts close and on the morning of the assault Peggy was the first adult Marie called This is Peggy.

1 (6m 17s):
Hey was so early in the morning. I just left and I drove over there immediately. So the police were there and were you sitting on the floor crying. I sat down next to her and she was telling me what happened and I got this I'm a big lawn order fan and I got I just got this really weird feeling it was like I felt like she was telling me the script of Allah and Allah and Order story. She was detached detached emotionally detached from what she was saying. It felt like they're just what's this drama going on it? But still there was a part of me. That was like, oh my God, I mean if it is real I need to respond remember being in shock and shaking and blanket in the corner.

1 (7m 6s):
They asked me a few questions about what had happened. And that I had told them I'd left my door unlocked and that some one had broken into my apartment and raped me. Again, this is Marie. She's 25 now a quick warning what she told police is difficult to hear and definitely not for kids. Here's what happened. Marie was home by herself and she was awake all night talking on the phone with her ex boyfriend Jordan. Oh my God off the phone and went to sleep. And then open my eyes and there was somebody in my house.

1 (7m 49s):
He had a knife in his hand and

2 (7m 52s):
wearing a

1 (7m 53s):
mask. He blindfolded me and gag me and tied my hands behind my back. He raped her he went through her stuff. He took pictures. He knew her name Marie prayed. He wouldn't kill her. And then after he was done with everything, he said I shouldn't have left my door unlocked, I guess with us. I must have left it unlocked the sliding glass door. He just said that he was sorry and it will look better in his head then. When you did it to me, he said if she went to the police, he'd put the pictures he had of her online

2 (8m 38s):
when the police arrived at Marie's apartment. They did what you'd expect. They processed the crime scene a crime scene technician snapped photos of the place. It didn't look like much in eighteen year olds tidy bare-bones apartment a sofa a bike a desktop computer on the floor in the corner. The bed was unmade green comforter on the floor a messy sheet. Marie was blindfolded and her attacker wore a mask. So there wasn't a real description. He wore gloves to avoid fingerprints. He wore a condom but there was physical evidence the police got fingerprints off the sliding glass door. Just beyond the glass door on the back porch.

2 (9m 20s):
It looked like someone had brushed off a Dusty railing while climbing over it. Police collected the bedding hoping for DNA maybe fibers are hairs. There was a rape kit and a report noting bruising on both of Marie's wrists plus other bruising and abrasions consistent with sexual activity when police searched the apartment they found the things Murray had said the man had used the knife the makeshift blindfold and gag the shoelaces used to tie her up with that's when Marie realized that all of those things were hers to begin with the knife was from her kitchen. The shoelaces came from her sneakers out in the living

1 (9m 57s):
room Peggy remembers hearing about the shoelaces and adding them to her list of things that just didn't make sense. And I just I just

2 (10m 6s):
the whole thing with the shoelaces. I was like,

1 (10m 8s):
first of all is a shoelace strong enough to tie some of these risks with for Peggy this Behavior fit into a bigger picture. She had of her foster daughter that Marie was attention-seeking. loud either not caring or not being aware how she was coming off in public like at the grocery store riding around and grocery carts with her friends getting really silly Peggy said Peggy was often telling Marie tone it down be aware of how people see you Peggy saw this as part of her job as a parent to teach this to Bernie. Part of her MO is to be really really outrageous and to say things that make people react.

1 (10m 55s):
like this picnic that we went on there were some guy that was watching her because she was being so outrageously flaunt a flirty and you know try to have conversation with her about toning it down a little bit because You're drawing a lot of attention to

2 (11m 15s):
yourself right now. I told her

1 (11m 18s):
I could get you in trouble to set of Peggy Marie calling everyone. She knew and saying hey, I got raped didn't seem right to her. She wondered was this rape story one more way to get attention. Marie. Meanwhile says sure she was calling everyone. She knew for what she thought was a good reason. I think I did that because I didn't, you know want it to happen to anybody else that's wanted to let people know that there was somebody out there hurting people. It wasn't the first time I had been raped and I was little and I was living with my mom. I never told anybody about that stuff that had happened to me when I was a kid. I just held it all in and did my whole pretending like stuff didn't happen.

1 (11m 60s):
And you know, I don't know if that guy ever got away or ended up hurting other people because I never told anybody never talked to anybody about

2 (12m 10s):
it, but I didn't want this

1 (12m 12s):
time. I am to be like that, you know, I wanted to be able to try to talk about it and get it out. Summary was calling around and later that day or maybe it was the next morning Peggy made a phone call of her own to Shannon. The other main adult in Marie's life. Here's Peggy.

2 (12m 35s):
I just said I don't know what the hell is going on.

1 (12m 38s):
I can't

2 (12m 39s):
tell you know, I was like, oh my

1 (12m 42s):
God, you know, she's telling me that she got raped but But I felt I just felt horrible. I felt horrible that I didn't believe her and so I think Shannon must have just

2 (12m 54s):
picked up on that and

1 (12m 55s):
then she was like Peggy you're

2 (12m 57s):
not the only one that doesn't believe her.

1 (12m 59s):
She's acting very strange. She's

2 (13m 1s):
telling everybody about it. She's calling everybody that she knows and telling them

1 (13m 6s):
this doesn't seem like what you would do Shannon remembers that phone call with Peggy to will pay you also didn't believe her so looking back we may have fed on each other's doubts about what had happened

2 (13m 24s):
the day after the rape Shannon help Marie move out of her apartment Reece case manager who was helping her transition from Foster Care was also there and Shannon says that hold day. She kept noticing these things little things and each one deep and her suspicions. Marie wouldn't look her in the eye. She wouldn't hug her. She didn't want to talk about the rape instead. She was giggling rolling around on the grass being flirty as Shannon saw it with the case manager

1 (13m 54s):
for me. The thing that cemented my doubts was she was given a like a Visa card to go pick out new sheets and bedding because the police had taken them for evidence. So we went back to the place where she had gotten the original ones and she was Furious that she couldn't by the same set because she really liked it. I'm thinking why would you want to have the same sheets and bedspread to look at every day when you'd been raped on this bed set I said, why would you want to have those sheets to remind you and she goes cause I like them.

1 (14m 43s):
I just thought that was such a strange response. That was the only time I saw her get mad the whole day.

2 (14m 52s):
You think you were starting to look for things. That didn't ring

1 (14m 54s):
true. I don't know if I was looking for them. They just kept popping up. I mean flirting with the manager and rolling in the grass and

2 (15m 4s):
giggling Shannon confronted Marie about what she saw as her odd

1 (15m 8s):
behavior. I did no ice. I told her that I had doubts about her whether or not she was telling the truth

2 (15m 16s):
and how did she

1 (15m 16s):
react she would get upside and she'd say, you know, I'm not really a liar. Why would I lie about this thing? Here's what I

2 (15m 26s):
thought again. This is Peggy Peggy had her own theory for why Marie might be lying about this.

1 (15m 33s):
I thought okay in my mind Murray got herself into trouble. She got carried away with some kind of sexual encounter and she let somebody take pictures of her and now they're going to get out on the internet and she's trying to backtrack and you know, maybe I didn't trust the police and maybe I didn't think they were understanding the nature of my daughter's personality. You know, I mean, it's more History Onyx, you know like histrionic personality. It seemed like her next tactic to try to get my attention one day after the rape Peggy called the lead detective on the case detective Jeffrey Masson.

2 (16m 23s):
She asked if she could meet with me in person

1 (16m 27s):
and so I agreed went to her residence met with her.

2 (16m 31s):
She was having questions about the story that was being told whether it was truthful or not. She seemed you know sincere she was

1 (16m 44s):
trying to pass on information that it may be may be

2 (16m 48s):
sincere is not the the correct terminology. But I mean she was just you know,

1 (16m 53s):
she

2 (16m 53s):
expressed a lot of concern and and caring for Marie

1 (16m 60s):
but

2 (17m 1s):
also had you know, a lot of questions on whether she was reporting the truth or not. Sergeant Mason didn't have a lot of experience investigating sexual assault Murray's was only the second or third case that he'd worked on how much weight. Did you give Peggy's opinion of Maurice credibility or of the you know, the potential truthfulness of what Marie said, it happened. I give enough way to steer the investigation tour. I need to talk to Marie further.

1 (17m 33s):
Was there anything that you are using that is evidence-based to get you to this moment of wanting to talk to her again about her

2 (17m 41s):
credibility know? Sergeant Mason says there were a few other elements to Marie story that it cost him to question her, but it was really the call from Peggy that changed everything. He talks to his partner and three days after the attack detective Mason calls Marie

1 (17m 59s):
and they said they needed to see me and I just all of a sudden I was just like my in trouble. I was my first for I said anything else on the phone. Am I in trouble

2 (18m 10s):
one of the first things she said was am I in trouble and that just

1 (18m 18s):
Well in in the 25 years

2 (18m 22s):
in law enforcement, my experience has been people that asked that or usually in

1 (18m 28s):
trouble. They said well, you just need you to come in to the police station Mason and his partner detective jerry-rigged Garn took Marie back to a conference room to talk. It was a very different conversation from the first time police talk to Murray. Now. It was an interrogation. She says the first thing they did was tell her it's spoken to Peggy and they'd spoken to her ex boyfriend Jordan. And neither of them believed her about being raped Peggy was one thing but Jordan was a friend. He and Marie spoke all the time. He talked about maybe getting back together and he'd been supportive and sympathetic about the rape. Marie suddenly had to try and figure out what these detectives meant.

1 (19m 9s):
The police were very closed off on telling me anything that Peggy or Jordan said, they wouldn't tell me anything that they said at all because he wanted me to tell him And I couldn't so he was just like yeah, is there any reason why he wouldn't believe

2 (19m 27s):
you and I said, I don't know

1 (19m 33s):
we talked to Jordan and he says he never doubted Murray and he never told the police he did in any case both detectives wrote in their reports that Marie seemed unsure of her story detective Rick Garn wrote that he found Marie to be making quote deceptive statements to include that she thought certain things had happened rather than she was positive that this happened Rick are noted that she didn't quote take a stand and demand that she'd been raped. Detectives made it clear to Murray they needed to be convinced. Years later there was an outside review of the case by a police investigator a sex crime specialist named Sergeant Greg Renta his report said quote the manner in which she was treated by Sergeant Mason and detective Rick Garn can only be labeled as bullying and coercive detective Rick garran declined to talk to us.

1 (20m 24s):
Sergeant has review went on quote. If this hadn't been documented in their reports, I would have been skeptical that this actually happened the victims credibility quote became the focus of the investigation and all of the strong evidence that pointed to a serious felony crime was completely ignored. Here's Murray. There's a really some guy out there that we need to be looking for or did you just make this up? And they just started asking me all these questions and just grilling at me and I just started

2 (20m 54s):
crying like

1 (20m 56s):
I was crying and I was upset. I didn't understand what was going on. Really. I just I'm still in shock that they didn't believe me. I was mad to at its pound my hand on the table and stuff like that and the only way they would leave me alone as if I wrote a statement saying that it didn't happen. So she did she first wrote quote. I dreamed someone broke in and raped me the detectives then insisted that she rewrite it and not right that she had dreamed it, but that she had lied.

1 (21m 36s):
There are lots of reasons a victim of sex abuse might consciously choose to say something different from what happened shame fear of Retribution. But Marie says that isn't what was happening with her. She started having moments where she actually couldn't tell if she'd been raped like I was trying to be really honest about everything and you know, possibly maybe I had dreamt that stuff that first statement maybe that I had dreamt it up and then it may be didn't happen and stuff like that. And so those doubts were coming out when I was talking to them and they just started disbelieving me even more and then all the sudden I just started thinking I was like did this, you know that this really just happened to me, you know, this whole thing in my mind.

1 (22m 26s):
I was second-guessing somebody coming into my house and doing all this stuff, you know, is it possible that I just imagine that because why would something like that happened to me? I ran how Marie describes this not being sure herself that the assault happened by an expert on sex assault trauma and how it affects the brain. She said that this kind of cognitive separation. She called it while not common does happen that it's directly related to the sheer shock and assault has on a person like for example being awoken by a stranger with the knife and the people who have been sexually abused before like Marie are at a much higher risk for this happening at foster care to that and the risk is greater get the end of that day.

1 (23m 10s):
I was just like

2 (23m 12s):
to find it did all didn't

1 (23m 13s):
happen because you know now I have nobody that believes me. I just wanted it to be over with so so Marie did something familiar to her. She has a way to deal with terrible things happening to her that are out of her control what she calls flipping the switch that feeling switch inside. I turned it to not really caring about the emotion and thought was turn off that switch will have to deal with him right now. Just want to get out of here. What does it look like when you kind of decide to flip the switch and stop caring so much. What does that? How does your demeanor change when you're speaking to the police officer?

1 (23m 53s):
Well, I'm not crying anymore looking at them when I'm talking to them when I think I was giggling which is something I do when I'm nervous. Like I

2 (24m 3s):
just

1 (24m 5s):
just pretended like that didn't just really happen, you know, and one of the bathroom after that and cleaned up and just kind of acted like it was fine. Both detectives notice the switch Rick Garden wrote quote her visual appearance and Body Language became remarkably different. She appeared less stressed stopped crying and even laughed a little Murray wrote her final statement for the detectives at their insistence quote. I made up this story. She wrote

2 (24m 38s):
Starts Now good

1 (24m 39s):
evening across the Lisa Lynn would now say a woman who claimed she was sexually assaulted by a stranger made up the story

2 (24m 46s):
this new story ran one day after Marie met with detectives and wrote those statements earlier this week the 18 year old told

1 (24m 53s):
detectives a man had broken into her apartment raped her and then stayed for an extended period of time but upon further questioning the woman admitted the assault did not happen detectives do not know why she made the story

2 (25m 5s):
up at least three other stations heard similar stories reporters chased

1 (25m 9s):
it. Like I had to hide like I had to wear a sweatshirt over my face and Sneak out of my apartment because there were just so many just pounding on my door.

2 (25m 20s):
The backlash was immediate we got hate-filled Myspace messages angry phone calls. One of Marie's best friends from high school put up a website attacking Marie warning people. She was a liar. It had the police reports with the statement. She'd written about making up the story. It had her name and her picture for Marie. It was too much police didn't believe her her foster moms didn't believe her and it was all over the news. It felt like the world had turned against her and remember she was 18 years old trying to figure this out. She wanted a lawyer and she had a support system that could have helped her find one.

2 (26m 1s):
She lived in her own apartment, but it was subsidized by a nonprofit that help teenagers like Marie transition out of Foster Care Project ladder. It was called they taught life skills like how to use a credit card how to shop for groceries. They were there to give her. And so she asked them to help her find a lawyer instead her case manager called the police who told him there was no evidence that a rape had occurred. They did not get her a lawyer. So then they said okay. Well we're going to go to the police station. You're going to tell them that

1 (26m 34s):
you know, you're going to tell them that really did happen. You're going to be

2 (26m 36s):
honest when they got to the station detective Mason the lead detective in our case wasn't there. He was out that day so detective Rick guard grabbed another cop to help out. Here's Marie.

1 (26m 49s):
I told him that I wanted to recant and that it really did happen. They should be out there looking for a rapist

2 (26m 56s):
Rick Garn didn't believer the other cop didn't know the case and was just following Rick Barnes lead. Reese has one of the detectives told her that if she kept insisting she was raped she might have to take a polygraph

1 (27m 9s):
test. He told me that if I took a lie-detector test and it came back that I was lying that he was going to take me to jail himself

2 (27m 19s):
using a polygraph on a rape victim is a mistake a big enough one that the federal government can withhold money from States if their police departments do it. The tests are seen as a deterrent to women coming forward to report sexual assault plus their famously unreliable, especially on someone who's traumatized. Rick guards report says it was actually Murray who brought up the polygraph not the cops, but what's not in dispute is that once the idea of a polygraph came up detective Rick Garn used it to threaten Marie. It's a tactic Police use when they're interrogating someone they suspect in a crime. Detective Rick arndt, hola Murray that if she failed the polygraph he'd recommend she lose her housing assistance and get jail time.

2 (28m 6s):
Well, that scared me so I didn't want to do that.

1 (28m 8s):
And so I was like, okay never mind. I really didn't happen. I want to go to

2 (28m 14s):
jail.

1 (28m 24s):
That night the project ladder managers called a meeting. It was just an emergency meeting and they didn't tell anybody why until everybody got their this is Elizabeth. Another former foster kid in the project ladder program. She was there at the meeting along with nine or so others mostly girls in the program managers sitting in chairs in a circle Marie remembers, that is the lowest moment of this whole ordeal the one time she thought about suicide again. Here's Elizabeth Murray stood up and she was crying and she said that she had lied about what had happened to the group to the group.

1 (29m 7s):
Yeah everybody. I mean, it just felt like she was just forced to say that and that it was she I mean there was nothing in in her words or actions that she meant. I mean it was more of a defeat is what it sounded like, you know, just kind of giving up on trying to prove herself. She just seemed devastated and lost actually sounds really confusing from your perspective. Where you wondering. Why is she being made to say this? I mean I really was because I didn't I didn't know her and I mean at first I didn't really know what to believe.

1 (29m 49s):
You know, it's just kind of an odd thing to say. Oh, well, I made it up. I think maybe my own personal experiences kind of came through when I when she said that and and I kind of what kind of personal personal experiences I've I mean, I was sexually assaulted and so I mean being afraid of of saying anything and then and then not having anybody to believe you and then just kind of Trying to forget about it.

1 (30m 31s):
I guess trying to try to move on or move on. Yeah Elizabeth felt for Marie. She says there are a couple of others who look like they did to but they were in the minority. Mainly Murray says people are angry that are pretty mad about it. One of the girls.

2 (30m 52s):
She was calling me and making

1 (30m 56s):
threats at me. Thought I was a liar and basically mentally ill for making up something like that. I spoke to one of the meetings angry girls. She didn't want to be interviewed, but she told me she thought Murray had lied and it did make her mad, but she also said and Elizabeth told me this too. There's something so obvious and transparent about the premise of the meeting. There's a message to everyone we're making her tell you this. So none of you think about doing it. If you do you'll lose your housing. Elizabeth describe the woman running the meeting as fuming. We reached out to the project ladder managers, but they never replied Elizabeth stuck my memory and one other friend friend.

1 (31m 42s):
Why's that was about it? Elizabeth says Marie was avoided like the plague. Yeah. I mean that's exactly how it was people treated her like she was They couldn't get far enough away from her and people they were very cruel to her. Of course the phone calls and the nasty stuff on social media. I mean, I even believed like when we'd walk through the parking lot or we'd go somewhere somebody would you know say something or calling her a whore and die and just a lot of really horrible stuff. I mean I even remember Reading one of the comments on the it was it was on the internet, but I don't remember what exactly page it was or anything.

1 (32m 29s):
But like this bitch is the reason that nobody believes when women say they get raped. Wow. Yeah. I mean there was a lot of that even Shannon who meant the world to Marie she told Marie that she couldn't spend the night at her house anymore because her husband worried she might make up a story about him and if all that weren't enough about a week later Marie received a summons in the mail police were charging her with false reporting. The false reporting charge meant the Murrays rape case would be officially closed the physical evidence police had gathered at the scene was destroyed except for a single fingerprint card.

1 (33m 11s):
That was left behind everything else the rape kit the bedding the DNA swabs. They were never even tested in a crime lab never analyzed further evidence that could have been gathered never

2 (33m 24s):
was. Two months after Marie was charged with false reporting Shannon was sitting at home watching the local news with her husband. When on came a story about a woman in Kirkland another Seattle suburb who reported being raped by a stranger who broke in threatened her with a knife you shoelaces to tie her up and who took pictures and threatened to post them on the

1 (33m 55s):
internet right away. I thought I'm wrong. She it actually happened. She was raped because this is too similar. So I immediately went in and called the Kirkland Police Department and ask to speak to the lead detective on the rape case and I explained the whole situation about what had happened to Marie and that the Linwood police didn't believe her, but it was just too similar and it had just happened. So I Them to call, you know, the Lynnwood Police then he got back to me and said he did talk to them, but they had determined that she had made the whole thing up and the case was closed and that was the end it was over.

2 (34m 47s):
I talked to the lead detective that Shannon spoke to and to another Kirkland detective on this case both remember talking to the Linwood PD, but when they learn the Linwood police didn't believe their victim that was it. They didn't look any further one detective said she figured the Lynwood police knew their case best. She trusted their judgment even so one thing they both told me they were surprised by was that the Linwood police had gone so far as to charge Murray with false reporting one detective remembers hanging up the phone thinking. Okay. Hope that works out for you guys.

2 (35m 27s):
Shannon grew up in a police family. She usually figured police knew best not this time.

1 (35m 33s):
I was upset. I I thought there should have been more investigation that it was just too similar

2 (35m 41s):
Shannon thought something had to be done. She thought Marie should get in touch with the Kirkland Police herself. She told Marie

1 (35m 48s):
if it did happen then here's a second chance to go talk to the police about what happened to you because this just happened to another woman, but she wouldn't go and so that then made me doubt again, why wouldn't she want to get involved to try and prove that she was innocent?

2 (36m 12s):
Marie didn't want to talk to anybody else about the rape, especially not police again the very thought terrified her. What you wanted more than anything was to put this behind her. In March of 2009 seven months after she was raped Marie went to court to accept a plea deal on her false reporting charged under the deal to get the charges dropped. She would need to meet certain conditions for a year. She go on supervised probation pay 500 dollars in court costs and she get mental health counseling not for being raped but for lying about it.

2 (36m 54s):
Coming up today's program is about to police investigations of the same crime the second investigation with the police do a stunningly great job and a minute. I'm Chicago public radio when our program continues Support for This American Life comes from Capital One with the Capital One Saver Card. You can earn four percent cash back on dining and entertainment that means four percent on checking out that new French restaurant and 4% on bowling with your friends. You'll also earn 2% cash back at grocery stores and one percent on all other purchases. Now when you go out you cash in Capital One what's in your wallet terms apply and from Square, you probably know Square they make that little white credit card reader that lets anyone take payments but running and growing a business can take more than payments.

2 (37m 49s):
So square has more tools to help like point of sale for all kinds of business eCommerce tools to help you sell online and full-service payroll that takes care of your taxes to and it's all designed to be quick to set up and easy to use see all the ways Square can take your business from square one to whatever is next at squared. / go / American. That's Square.com. / go / American. This American Life, I'm Ira Glass today's program anatomy of doubt. We have the story of two criminal investigations one goes great when goes about as badly as it possibly could we now turn to the successful investigation.

2 (38m 30s):
It happens in a suburb of Denver called Golden Colorado that we detectives in this second case were very experienced versus the lead detective in the first case. We only had done a one or two other rape cases. This was stated earlier, but I'll just repeat it here the content of today's program probably isn't right for little kids who are can Armstrong and Robin Simeon

1 (38m 49s):
two years later January 2011 detective Stacy Galbraith got a case a grad student mid-twenties had been sexually assaulted in her home raped at gunpoint to cover his tracks her attacker took her sheets with him and made her shower to wash off any DNA and when she went to interview the victim ticked of Galbraith says the victim remembered an unusual number of details about the guy way more than any other race. Time she talked to before the victim had basically chatted him up and he told her things like he spoke for different languages and she was able to kind of rattle off a few of those. He traveled a lot.

1 (39m 30s):
He talked about math. He told her that he has, you know, no problem with finding girlfriends or having girlfriends, but he just doesn't like the consensual aspect of the girlfriend relationship. The victim had a good guess of his height and weight. I knew that he had a distinct mark on his leg a birthmark. She told detective Galbraith the size and shape of an egg. He had a camera with him and she remembered the color and brand of the camera. She described it as a pink Sony detective Galbraith noted that the victim wasn't crying. She didn't seem upset. She was very kind of stoic in her report of this incident.

1 (40m 13s):
You could even say she had more of a flat affect actually.

2 (40m 16s):
Was there anything unusual about that very

1 (40m 18s):
unusual. Typically. I mean I encounter somebody say in the hospital or on a scene that's crying upset much more. I would say visibly traumatized than than this victim was she talked about this guy and the horrible my word is horrible things that he did to her for a number of hours and in relation to other victims, you know, they probably would have said horrible they would have been revealing the Rebel side of the things that they done she I remember we were walking outside for some reason. I don't know why we were outside and she was talking about that. He was a gentleman calm mild-mannered and I just remember just thinking how can anyone after this happened call this person a gentleman detective Gall breath at this point had worked dozens of rape cases, maybe 50.

1 (41m 10s):
She admitted. She didn't totally get her victim, but that it didn't get in the way of her investigating the crime. Detective Galbraith talk to her husband about the case that night and her husband a police officer in another town remembered a case just like it in his Department in Westminster. So detective Galbraith contacted Westminster PD the next morning to look at their case File details almost identical the lead detective on that case Edna. Hendershot says there was one striking Connection in my assault. My Victim was the victim of a theft also of a pink Sony Cyber-shot camera that was stolen from her and Stacy knew that her victim was photographed using a pink Sony Cyber-shot camera.

1 (42m 4s):
Detective Hendershot also said there was a third rape in another town nearby which made them think there could be a Serial offender. The three departments did something that doesn't always happen with different police departments. They started meeting working together. Each department had come up with some kind of trace DNA associated with their victims not the definitive kind that can positively idea suspect but not nothing either the samples were tested for similarities and the results showed that they were connected paternally meaning the three DNA samples had to be the same guy or men in the same family about five weeks into detective Stacy galbraith's investigation.

1 (42m 52s):
There's a big meeting federal state and local investigators are there and 1/4 local Department to it in that meeting someone new to the group a female crime analyst stands up. She done a search for suspicious vehicles in the vicinity of an attempted rape detective Hendershot says at the very end of the meeting. She happens to mention just so the group knows I came across this Mazda truck. That was near this crime scene. Just so the group knows well when Stacy here's that Stacy's like wait a second. What did you say? I tell him I said that's a truck on our surveillance video.

1 (43m 34s):
That wasn't very relevant until right now. It just all came together one second. It was just a detective Stacy Galbraith had only seen the truck on a fuzzy surveillance video. But this analysts had the make model and license plate was registered to a guy named Marc O'Leary detective Hendershot always reluctant to get too ahead of herself remembers thinking wow, that's a pretty big piece of evidence

2 (44m 0s):
potentially,

1 (44m 4s):
but they needed now is a DNA sample from Marc O'Leary to see if it tied him to the crimes. So FBI agents take out marks house. The plan was to wait for him to leave then they'd split up have a few agents follow him while others put up surveillance cameras outside his house while he was gone when Mark leaves his house agents Trail him what they didn't know is that Marc O'Leary had a brother who lived with him in the same house. So the guy they were following wasn't Mark at all but is slightly younger. Similar looking brother. So in other agents go to the apartment and knock on the door expecting it to be empty there shocked when Mark answers agents think quickly say they're informing people in the neighborhood about a burglar.

1 (44m 50s):
They even have a flyer with a phony suspect photo to show him the conversation ends Marcos inside. Meanwhile, Marx brother is eating in a diner and when he's done agent swoop in to get DNA off his glass which brings them closer to their answer but still not all the way there because while DNA from the brother does link the Brothers family line to the crimes. It does not tell them which brother committed them. Here's detective Gall breath. So this point where like crap that it could be either one really. We need to see the lack of both of them for a birthmark. They need to see that birthmark.

1 (45m 34s):
Two days later detective Galbraith in our team. Go to Mark's house in Mark comes to the door. And you know, we have weapons out and I tell them you know that we have a search warrant for the house and I Pat him down to make sure it doesn't have any weapons. He's got real baggy clothes on when he comes out. And so when I'm Pat him down and lifted up both pant legs, I saw the mark

2 (45m 55s):
what you think when you saw the Mark, he's the

1 (45m 58s):
guy he needed to be in handcuffs. He was a very surprised he went almost blue. She arrested him. Garber says it's the most satisfying case. She ever worked on. When the police searched the house, they found shoelaces and other bindings lock-picking tools a gun the pink Sony camera and stowed away in the back of an amplifier underwear. He collected from his victims also computer's hard drives thumb drives media cards, which produced hundreds of images photos of victims detective Galbraith went through the mall.

1 (46m 45s):
There are pictures of women from the towns and Colorado and a picture of another woman with a Washington driver's license on her chest that was gagged and bound it was Marie. I'm thinking thank God. I don't have just an unknown victim here that I may never know who she is. I know who this is. Let me know I'm thinking he probably did that as a form of intimidation to her. I know who you are. You know, I'll have your name and your address and

2 (47m 14s):
but it helped us

1 (47m 15s):
actually detective Galbraith contacted the Linwood PD hoping to wrap up their case. She had the case File facts to her. But what she remembers is the cover page of that facts, which read false reporting. My heart sunk and I was shocked. I was like, oh cuss word because I knew that was wrong. After police filed their false reporting charge against Murray Marc O'Leary went on to rape at least four other women the three women in Colorado plus the woman he raped in the Seattle suburb near Marie, he pleaded guilty to five rapes and over 20 other felonies.

1 (47m 58s):
He was sentenced to over 300 years in prison in a post-sentencing interview with police. He admitted stalking victims over time sometimes breaking and entering in the weeks before an attack to plan and make sure a woman was living by herself didn't have a dog. He also said he knew Police Department's weren't great at talking to one another. So he planned his attacks deliberately in different cities.

2 (48m 23s):
In March, 2011 two years after Marie took a plea deal for filing a false police report. She got a visit from the head of the Linwood PD's criminal investigations division Commander Steve writer who are invited in you know, told Marie who we were

1 (48m 39s):
they asked if I had somewhere quiet they could you know talk to me and

2 (48m 45s):
I just remember not knowing what I'm going to say as much as I thought about this moment. I don't I don't know how to say this. I don't remember the words. I use

1 (48m 55s):
they said they found the guy I have this little piece of evidence. They said that they had found a picture and the picture they found was of my ID. And I just broke down they paid me back to $500 and told me that they were going to get my record

2 (49m 17s):
expunged. She just looked stunned and we were stunned and it was it was hard.

1 (49m 25s):
I didn't really say much after that. I just I didn't really have much to say after they told me that they were just like we're sorry. We're deeply sorry, you know about what happened to you. I didn't mean much to me at all.

2 (49m 50s):
Sergeant Jeffrey Masson, the lead detective in the case hadn't thought about Maurice case in years. He was sure she'd lied. So he just moved on and then he got a phone call telling him that a serial rapist had been arrested in Colorado that Marie had been raped by this man that Marie had been telling the truth. Yeah it was. I was driving to my office. It's one of those times that you're not going to forget. So. it was so shocking that this is the been the one thing that you know where

1 (50m 32s):
I seriously step back and

2 (50m 37s):
question if you know I should continue doing what I'm doing. Marie requested a personal apology for Mason and she got one in the same police station or two and a half years before she had been interrogated as a criminal suspect instead of treated as a rape victim. Marie says he seemed sincere and ashamed he rubbed his head. He looked like a lost little puppy is how she puts it and then there were Shannon and Peggy the two adults who mattered the most to Marie as a teenager. They are both still in her life today. This is Shannon.

1 (51m 16s):
It was very complicated knowing they'd caught him at the same moment knowing that had actually happened that she was actually raped and nobody believed her. Especially the people in her life that had been supporting her and had been taking care of her and trying to Mentor her and help her and we didn't believe her and so I told her that. I didn't I didn't want to say I was sorry over the phone that I wanted to do it in person.

1 (52m 6s):
so she came up and we went for a walk and I just Took her shoulders, and I said I want to look in your eyes and don't you from the bottom of my heart. I'm so sorry. I doubted you and I didn't believe you and we didn't support you and she said that was okay. Give me a big hug. and I I was just so shocked that she would be willing to forgive me for that because it was such a huge thing and it went on for so long.

1 (53m 7s):
The worst horrible part of this whole thing for me

2 (53m 11s):
is that I did talk to the police. and I regret that now

1 (53m 19s):
of course, this is Peggy. Shannon and Peggy have thought a lot about what happened and their role in it. They doubted Marie because of something so normal and human they trusted their intuition about someone they knew really. Well, it's hard not to do that. They had a gut feeling that was wrong but felt utterly true, but trauma Works in complicated ways. You can't tell if someone was raped by how they're acting they can be subdued and detached but they can also be hyper and laughing. They can go back and forth. Sometimes they tell no one what happened.

1 (53m 59s):
Sometimes they tell a lot of people sometimes they're not sure if the assault actually happened. At this point Peggy knows that but even now she can't shake the feeling. She had that letter to call police in the first place, obviously. Wish I hadn't but on the other hand there was all these other other things, you know, I mean the police and the way that Marie was acting. I mean, I you know, she on some level needs to take responsibility for that to you know, I'm sorry, but that's true. And what do you mean she needs to realize at some point and I think she does now that okay, I hate to say this but you know, I mean, okay now this is going to sound really bad like I'm blaming the victim

2 (55m 0s):
but

1 (55m 2s):
Some of the way that she was acting was part of the reason why it had the outcome that it did and I'm not the only person that didn't believe her but also it sounds like everyone who was doubting her didn't have much information about the way that rape trauma can function and so is this about the way that she acted? Well, it shouldn't be about the way that she acted. But unfortunately the reality is that that did influence. And it sounds really harsh for me to say that it's not her fault because I think it's a totally a product of what she went through but on the other hand.

1 (55m 54s):
God I don't know. What she does know is that she never expected her feelings to derail an entire police investigation. She's mad police. Let that happen

2 (56m 8s):
detective Mason takes full responsibility for what happened Commander writer Mason's boss head of the criminal investigations division calls Murray's case quote a major failing one his Department thinks of often. He says the detectives should never have given Peggy's call the weight. They did the Linwood Police Department's own internal review of the case said the same the report said the call quote cause the detectives to change their focus towards investigating the victim for false reporting. No, one was disciplined in the case. Marie sued Lynde would and its police officers and wound up settling for a hundred and fifty thousand dollars.

2 (56m 49s):
She also sued the project ladder managers and the nonprofit that oversaw project ladder Cocoon House. Cocoon House issued a statement at the time saying quote our hearts go out to Marie and her family. We strongly believe that cocoon house and its employees acted appropriately on behalf of the client the client meaning Marie Cocoon House settled the lawsuit races her conclusion and her advice to any woman who wants to report a sexual assault bring proof.

1 (57m 20s):
I just think that all of the facts and everything needs to be laid out so that they can't go back and find something, you know didn't tell them I know but you're not on trial. I know you're right. I'm not really sure how to answer that just just seems like that's how everybody is really sucks that you have to be on trial after you go through something. So traumatic like that, but it's just how it is and how people

2 (57m 50s):
Thank

1 (57m 52s):
and that's what happened to me.

2 (58m 3s):
The story was put together by Ken Armstrong and Robin semyon Robbins a producer on our Show. Ken was investigative reporter for The Marshall Project at the time. Now, he's with propublica since we originally did this story The Print version which was a collaboration between The Marshall Project and propublica won a Pulitzer Prize for explanatory reporting. You can read that version online at the Marshall project.org or propublica dot-org is reported in written by Ken and pro-public has t Christian Miller who also contributed to the radio version of the story the radio version of the story the one that you just heard want to 2016 Peabody Award Maria is now married with two kids drives an 18-wheeler for a living as I mentioned at the top of the show. The story was turned into an 8 part series on Netflix called unbelievable, which is out right.

2 (58m 45s):
Now. Murray says she binge watch the entire thing from the bunk of her cabin. Truck still can that she thought it was excellent that actress Kate mendeavors betrayal of her being interrogated by the police was perfect. And she said that actually getting to watch the Colorado police arrest her rapist, even though it was actors and on TV. She said it was powerful to see in fact like closure

1 (59m 6s):
just another home sick child Tata running wild ready to stand trial and move on though. I'm guilty in your sight show some mercy tonight. I can make it through this fight alone. Oh Lord, Oh Lord. Oh make it easy on me. Keep me working till I work it on out.

1 (59m 51s):
Just please I don't know flight on me till I'm free from the shadow of down.

2 (1h 0m 4s):
These program is produced by Brian Reed and Robin semyon, Missouri chase on Colonial drumming Stephanie food. Hona chahiye. Wild Mickey make Jonathan menjivar was a ship Billy Sullivan Christopher sutala and Nancy Updike or senior producer for today's show was Brian read Joel of will help with editing. Julie Snyder also helped edit the story additional production on our rerun from Jessica lessin. Hops don't Nelson and that tyranny music help today from Damien Gray from Bob Geddes special. Thanks today to Joanne archambault. Tin mining a kuow. And dr. Rebecca Campbell our website. This American life.org is American life is delivered a public radio stations by PRX the public radio exchange support for This American Life comes from the Lagunitas Brewing Company feeling stories and songs with Lagunitas IPA.

2 (1h 0m 46s):
And of course committed to keeping the pub in public radio. Find out more won't you had a lagoon eat us.com. Thanks, as always to our programs co-founder mystery metal to you know, I asked him. Why is he so beloved? Is it because he's so great at his job or is he just so good looking

1 (1h 1m 4s):
crap? They could be either one. Really?

2 (1h 1m 7s):
I'm Ira Glass back next week with more stories of This American Life

1 (1h 1m 17s):
till I'm free from his

2 (1h 1m 19s):
Shadow of Doubt. Next week on the podcast of This American Life Stacy standing on a street corner in Brooklyn wearing this costume covered in rhinestones with huge feathers the rise up in the

1 (1h 1m 37s):
back feathers coming out of this some Stones came off. Just know if you're going to do it carry some crazy glue with you

2 (1h 1m 46s):
we go inside one of the biggest parties in New York City people in masks rivalries that go back years this next week on the podcast on your local public radio station.