3 (1s):
Support for This American Life comes from rocket mortgage by Quicken Loans making the home buying process work for you their team. Is there with award-winning client service and support get started at Rocket mortgage.com American Equal Housing lender licensed in all 50 states and MLS consumer access dot org number 30 30 From WBZ Chicago, it's This American Life. I'm Ira Glass. So one of the people who works in our radio show her brother was going through a rough time and he called their mom kind of panicking and their mom was like, you know, you just need to stop thinking about the stuff and he was like Mom that is not possible and she was like there is totally possible would you have to do is here to take the bad thought and put it into a box in your head then have to take the box out of your head put it in a Cupboard and shut the cupboard.

3 (57s):
I love the completeness of that. It's like the box in the head was not enough right that image maybe work for their mom when she was young, but then she's like, you know, I have not extinguished the bad thoughts quite enough. I need more. I need a cupboard next time our producer and her brother were visiting their parents. She told me the two of them were all just like don't open the cupboards denial. He gets a bad rap compartmentalizing your feelings keeping it all inside pretending things never happened. These are not signs of psychological Health. There's signs of his adulthood.

3 (1m 38s):
If you do this thing's basically you're an adult because being an adult means sucking it up getting on with it going to work even if you have a cold because you're an adult. You do your job and I complaining. In fact today's entire show is the defense of mad thinking about it. If not, knowing the defense and short of ignorance. We have three very different stories. You can decide how convincing they are. Stay with us a gwaan what you don't know.

3 (2m 18s):
Okay. So today's show is a rerun. I just want to say in the intervening years since we made the show. I got over my cold incredible, right? Thanks for caring and then this morning I woke up my voice sound me like this. I cannot explain this. I swear I'm generally a very healthy person. Anyway, the reason that we are rewriting this episode is that the first story in the show was made into a film and the national release of the film is this weekend. The film is called the farewell. I can say this as an outsider at nothing to do with the making of This film. We are not investors in this film or anything. It's totally wonderful. At the end of the Sundance Film Festival this year critics voted it the best film very goo Wong who made the film best screenwriter and Best Director Lulu is the one who did a radio story back before she made the film The story's better family and it fit into the theme of this episode because it's a very dramatic case study of people not admitting the

2 (3m 13s):
truth when my grandmother was diagnosed with stage 4 lung cancer. She was given three months to live. She was 80 years old and my family for reasons. I'll get into in a minute decided not to tell her I was totally against this. When I heard the news I wanted to talk with my grandmother comfort her. I wanted to grieve with her in the way that seems natural when someone you love is dying, but my mom she's the one who called me to give me the bad news quickly informed me that what I wanted that what I thought was the right thing to do would not be permitted and that I would have no say in the matter.

2 (3m 53s):
I was stunned my grandmother or nine I as I call her lives in China along with a lot of my other relatives my parents and I live here in the United States. I'm really close to my 9A at two years old. I lived with her and my grandfather for a year. So my mom could work. Lana is 5 foot tall with a full head of permed white hair. She's small. But with mine I walks into a room everyone listens. I wasn't the only one who felt weird keeping this a secret my dad thought about going to his mom and telling her she was dying,

1 (4m 34s):
but then what? I could not take care of her because I have my own family back in the United States right now. I have my job here. And then I won't be able to you know, take the responsibility being with my mom.

2 (4m 50s):
It's true. My dad wasn't the one on the ground looking after nine a he left China when he was just a teenager. His older brother has lived in Japan for 24 years. The person who was on the ground was nine. I was younger sister. You don't show a lot. How'd you get pink in control? He making around her Julia and Julia. This is her my nice sister. My great aunt. She looks almost identical 29 a in Chinese. I call her cell uni, which translates to little Aunt Grandma, but I'll just call her little 984 this story. Little night I lives in the apartment, right upstairs from 9A and they're very close.

2 (5m 31s):
She was the one who picked up the results of nice physical. It's customary in China for doctors to give bad news to family members rather than giving it directly to the patient. Especially if the patient is older 9 is doctor recommended that 9ib immediately hospitalized for treatment when we entered L. I can't retrieve the wonderful food. She's saying the doctor told her the cancer was very Advanced to not hospitalize her would be irresponsible. Of course in order to hospitalize 9 a it means they'd actually have to tell her she's sick what you're going to show Aloha. So the name is Isabella 13, which is the doctor that is too old that she couldn't handle a blow like this.

2 (6m 20s):
It's not just that little night. I didn't want to upset her sister with the news of her death. She actually I believe that not telling her was a way to prolong her life knowing that has personality little night. I worried that her sister would get overwhelmed with fear and depression. She stopped eating she'd stopped sleeping. She'd lose interest in life. The Chinese believe that mental and emotional health are completely linked to physical health from what what are yo, yo you go right in Selma. She tells me there's a Chinese joke two people go get a physical. One of them is healthy and one of them has a terminal illness the hospital gets the results mixed up the healthy person gets a terminal prognosis and vice versa.

2 (7m 3s):
So then the healthy person ends up dying while the sick person ends up living Jessica co-host Geneseo today of Malkovich. That's me asking little 9 a is that really a joke? It's not very funny, you know sure essential Harbor. She sure did me that it was my family got a second.

3 (7m 26s):
In

2 (7m 26s):
and then a third same prognosis three months maybe less little 9. I knew she needed a fake medical report to show 9A. So she went to a print shop. They told her we can't create a false medical record. If you want to make something up we could photocopy it for you little 9i Whited out the real diagnosis and wrote down words that sounded vaguely Medical but an alarming something about the nine Shadows my family built on that lie with an even more elaborate one. We realized we had a problem. How are we all going to manage to c9i before?

2 (8m 6s):
She died family from three countries needed to say goodbye without letting that 90. We were actually saying goodbye. This would require more than whiteout. My dad had an idea

1 (8m 19s):
so I said all right brought your uncle. Maybe we can just you know stage your son's wedding early one year early. Are you proud that you came up with this idea? Well, you know, I'm the old I'm the everybody considered it me is the smartest in the family. So I mean there's a tissue by mean.

2 (8m 46s):
This was our plan a giant. Goodbye party disguised as a giant Wedding Banquet.

1 (8m 52s):
This is the lie that everybody agreed to life

2 (8m 57s):
and here's how it was gonna go down. My uncle Hai beans son. Leah had recently married a Japanese woman. They plan to celebrate in China the next year, but now it would be in two weeks and it would bring together family members who had not all been in the same place for 25 years my dad told 9i that the wedding. It had to happen immediately because that was when the groom the alien could get the time off work. How did you feel about

1 (9m 24s):
lying? Well, it's not I mean clear cut it this is Ally and that's you know, because people think lying is bad thing, but you know, but the in this circumstance is you don't think that you know, you make a bad lie. You think you make a good lie because that's the way that you know, everybody, you know wants it and that's the way that it's supposed to be

2 (9m 48s):
but that wasn't the way I wanted it or thought it was supposed to be and I still wasn't convinced. It would be what night I wanted. I was so emotional that my mom said maybe I shouldn't go that I might cry and blow the cover. I was afraid she might be right but if I wanted to see 9i before she died I had to go and I had to be part of the LIE.

2 (10m 31s):
This is from a video. I took I started filming as soon as I landed. I brought the camcorder with me to hide behind hoping it would help me to keep it together at the arrivals gate. I heard nine shouting my name through the crowd. She wasn't difficult to spot a squat figure waving a pink handkerchief from the front of the crowd. She was at least a foot shorter than everyone else and her white hair stood out. Oh my granddaughter she cried. She looked me up and down. You're not very skinny. She

1 (11m 1s):
observed

2 (11m 3s):
your mom says you've been very busy with work. I thought you'd be skinny, but you're not that skinny. Then I didn't look or act like someone who is sick at all. I asked her how she was feeling and she said she was doing well. She had some knee pain from the years. She marched across the country with the people's Liberation Army when she was 14 if it weren't for my bad knees. She said I'd be perfect. My parents were delayed in Beijing that night but the rest of the family gathered around nine eyes dinner table. Little 9 I held her little white dog on her lap a dog. They call Ellen. They named Ellen after an American exchange student who had stayed with them.

2 (11m 45s):
Everyone here is yelling saying Ellen sing saying and then finally After dinner, Uncle happy and walk me to the nearby hotel where I was staying 9i is in one of the older neighborhoods in the area. They're still unpaved paths and small food stands, but her street is being slowly engulfed by shopping malls and high-rises.

2 (12m 25s):
Nine is very sick. You know Uncle said as we walked she took care of you when you were little she loves you so much. He kept saying things. I already knew things that felt like he was trying to provoke an emotion out of me. You have to be very careful not to tell her he said you'll feel very sad, but you cannot cry. Looking back. I wonder if he was really just trying to coach himself. You have to be happy he insisted. I know I said as I stared Straight Ahead at the brightly lit Billboards across the

3 (12m 59s):
street.

2 (13m 11s):
And most events. The emotional protocol is clear you smile at weddings you cry at funerals the confusing thing here was that this was one situation masquerading as another. In China, you're actually expected to cry at a funeral a lot as a sign of respect people judge you on how well you cry and how much you cry my uncle understood this protocol and my grandfather Yeah is funeral in 1994. Uncle Hai bin was tasked with the duty of performing a cathartic Chinese ritual to demonstrate his great grieving. As the eldest son. This was his designated role.

2 (13m 52s):
He stood in the aisle in front of the coffin and raised a clay bowl over his head while crying loudly he smashed the ball to the ground shattering it into countless shards. My mother hates these kinds of huge emotional displays, by the way at her father's funeral years ago her family criticized her for not crying enough

1 (14m 14s):
the people over there. They the expect you just fall on the floor and the like like crazy people and shouting and crying. This is Chinese part of you know, their tradition the people die, they hire the people And if you have money you can hire a hundred people come here. There's a crisis a 1-2-3 cry and one two, three stop. I hate that.

2 (14m 53s):
The next morning my parents finally arrived. I'm videotaping as 9i greets my dad at the door asking him all kinds of questions about his flight about a recent dental surgery. He had the rest of the family hovers close by and I can see that my dad is so emotional that he can't say a single word. He can't even look her in the eyes. He tries to be playful and takes off her hat then fiddles with his own sunglasses trying to distract himself later. I was finally able to ask him what he was feeling when you walk through that

1 (15m 26s):
door. Well, you know, it's just like, you know every son, you know feeling that your mom that is dying and you cannot tell. And thinking that that's the probably the last time that you'll see your mom. All the family is around you. Everybody is there and everybody knows what's going on, except your grandma, except my mom. I was afraid to say something then the you you you cannot hold myself and started crying, right? You want to say something, but I don't know what to say.

1 (16m 9s):
It's it's just now there's no words to choose from

2 (16m 13s):
at 1.9. I asks him what's wrong, even though he doesn't respond. It's like she can feel the weight of his grief and she just starts sobbing. I wondered if she knew why we were all there or maybe when you're 80, this is just how you greet your son who lives so far away. There are other relatives around and my dad walks away from that night to get some space on the video. You can hear my mom interject her voice upbeat trying to lighten the mood.

2 (16m 58s):
After a while Knight takes her usual role as The Matriarch and gathers everyone around taking charge. She reminds us why we're all here the big event of the aulia and his wife's marriage. Yes. Ellen's wedding is the big event. My dad confirms quietly. We all urged my night to relax but she's busy giving everyone their priorities you check on the banquet hall. You guys need to prepare your wedding speeches. You need to get over your jet lag probably should be in the hospital get so worked up over this phony Wedding Banquet while we stood by and watched it felt cool.

2 (17m 43s):
I went to that nice knees like all googoo with my concerns Google lives close by and also helps look after nine a I asked her. What if Nina has things she wants to take care of like what Google responded I said, I don't know none of us do that's my whole point. No. Google said she doesn't have anything like that and that was the end of the discussion. The wedding celebration was held in the banquet hall of a newly built Hotel.

2 (18m 25s):
Leon had on a black suit with a pill pink tie his Japanese wife wore a blue chiffon dress with a flourish all guests approach 9i to congratulate her smiling like a politician at a press event non. I smiled back. She shook hands. She kissed babies when it came time for the speeches Uncle - my dad's brother took to the stage first. He fumbled a while with the microphone before looking up. It's a rare opportunity for us all to be here today. He started you all newly on as a young child before we left China and now he's become a man. He's brought a wife back with him from Japan Uncle motion to Leo's wife who couldn't understand a word of Chinese.

2 (19m 11s):
I think we are all hoping that next time they return they will carry with them a baby or to the room chuckled the untranslated this to his wife and her face flushed. There's just one more thing uncle said his voice starting to quiver. They say that a mother's greatest joy is having her children by her side. My mama has sadly not had that fortune he meant because he and my dad lives so far away. So she is lucky to have all of you to care for her. He stared at night in the audience. And then as of in slow motion tears began to stream down his face.

2 (19m 52s):
I thought of Uncle Hai being a yeah is funeral gripping that clay bowl over his head as everyone watched anticipating the explosion into a thousand pieces, but this wasn't a funeral it was a wedding. No crying only happy. He had warned me himself just the night before they were all watching none. I was watching there was no turning back everything. I am everything I've become is because of my mom this releases the damn he begins to weep uncontrollably on stage his shoulders

1 (20m 29s):
shaking.

2 (20m 36s):
Ma. You're the best mom in the entire world. I looked over at nine. I who dabbed at her eyes with her handkerchief? When she moved with she suspicious looking at her I couldn't tell. After the speech is the bride and groom move from table to table making toasts. It didn't take a mind reader to see that night. I didn't like the new Japanese wife. I think she's quite dumb and I said she doesn't understand anything. That's because she doesn't speak Chinese.

2 (21m 16s):
I reminded her know. She insisted it's because she's dumb the bride and groom weren't used to the heavy drinking rituals of the northern Chinese and got drunk fast. I mean they had to drink at every single table Valley and the groom constantly looked like he was about to cry and after the drinking he could no longer hold it in he started to bawl until his face turned bright red. His wife's eyes were wide with panic as she scanned the room for help Google motion wildly to me from across the room as we all swooped in to try and form a barricade around the sobbing groom. We told I know that Liam was probably just too happy that he was crying tears of joy.

2 (22m 2s):
The night after the wedding we all went out to a restaurant after a massive Feast. We played a drinking game. Then I laughed so hard that she cried and then laugh some more it was hard to distinguish which smiles were real and which ones were faked 499 sake. Well, I struggled with the grief of saying goodbye nine. I focused on the future a future. She assumed she'd be part of When you get married, she told me I'll have an even bigger Wedding Banquet for you.

2 (22m 44s):
She also asked when I'd have a baby saying that she was looking forward to holding my child. I had no idea when any of that might happen, but I played along we plan what my Wedding Banquet would look like and talked about how to balance my career once I had this hypothetical kid. Lying made me sick to my stomach. Listen, my mom tried to reassure me your night. I would appreciate that. We're lying to her. Otherwise, why would she have done the same thing to your grandfather?

1 (23m 18s):
This

2 (23m 18s):
was the first time I'd heard of this. I was only 10 when ye was diagnosed with liver cancer as it turns out no one told him about his condition either. As his wife nine. I was the key decision-maker in that situation. He had severe jaundice and was barely Lucid when I finally gave him the bad news in the hospital. I need to tell you something Old Timer she began he succumbed to the cancer three

3 (23m 46s):
days later.

2 (23m 52s):
I asked my dad about this and he said in truth. Yay a new no one told him but deep down people can feel when they're really dying. They knew and he knew but everyone pretended not to know so they could all allow each other to save face. So didn't I also know what she also lying to us. Later, little 9. I told me that there was in fact a secret that night. I had kept from us. You mean I never had any intention. Oh now to shape what 1w down trees and that's the sound of me being totally shocked. She tells me that in 2007 six years before the lung cancer diagnosis 9, I have been diagnosed with breast cancer.

2 (24m 37s):
Not unusual for a woman in her 70s, but my dad didn't know my uncle didn't know I didn't know she had a mastectomy and she'd been wearing a prosthetic breast for nine years nine. I concealed his from our family and uncle's family not because she was ashamed but so that we wouldn't worry all this time that we were lying to her to protect her. She had also put on a show to protect us. After I left China, I immediately Skype 9i from home. I love you. She said in English the few words that she knows I managed to find time to Skype with her every day. Just to check in at first she seemed to be doing fine and had no symptoms then one day she started to cough and my heart sank.

2 (25m 26s):
I just have a bit of the flu. She said it's nothing. When the cough wouldn't go away. She suggested going to the doctor's office to pick up some medicine. Little night. I panicked and immediately talked her out of it. But then a few days later nine, I stopped coughing. Three months came and went and nine. I was still just fine. Everyone was baffled. Eventually, I couldn't keep up with the daily Skype calls and it dwindled down to once a week and then once a month. A year passed and I said she felt fine. So she just decided to skip her annual checkup that year. And another year passed.

2 (26m 9s):
During her 2015 check up the same doctor gave the same diagnosis and prognosis stage 4 lung cancer. Very serious no more than three months. This time little night. I didn't even bother to mock up a phony document. She just told 9A that she had lost a test results. But that everything was the same. Everything was fine. It's been three years. Now since nine. I was first diagnosed little 98 is certain her big sister is still alive because of her decision to lie to her because we gave 9 a joy instead of worry. My mom told me about an old Chinese belief called Chauncey Chong means to rinse out and see is Joy.

2 (26m 52s):
So Chauncey is the belief that you can wash away a misfortune with joy, even though this term was never used while planning the wedding. That's essentially what we did. And by the way, everyone in the family has their own idea of what saved night-night Google thinks it's partly because of her weekly prayers at the local Taoist Temple my uncle credits 9i survival to some expensive Miracle probiotics. He bought her from Japan. Since then I seem to be doing fine, my parents suggested getting a less expensive brand of probiotics and Uncle have been freaked out if we switch it and she dies then it's on you.

2 (27m 35s):
When this whole thing started I felt like the only rational person in my family the lone Westerner defending my grandmother against old-fashioned beliefs as it turns out my mom agreed with me, but she and my dad just understand both sides. I'm pretty sure a lot of other Americans would feel the way that I felt that it's somebody's gonna die. It's their right to know.

1 (28m 1s):
Yeah, and by the way testing that's not your business. you're not you not live with her and so Okay,

2 (28m 12s):
but did you but you understand where I was coming from? Do you understand why I was conflicted.

1 (28m 18s):
Yeah, I know but does China that's a different world. Okay, people going to funeral and you have to you know, hold the pillow around the house Street three times and in this country you don't do that. Right? So you'll you not use your culture to you know, push to them. You know this make

2 (28m 45s):
chaos. I wonder now if my mom or dad was diagnosed with something terminal and I knew and they didn't what I lied to them. And if it was me what I want to know. What my family did was kind and it worked. Maybe I'm reminded of a joke about a physicist visiting his colleague Niels. Bohr and expresses surprise at finding a good luck. Horseshoe hanging on the wall. Surely. You're not superstitious. Oh no Niels Bohr says, but I'm told it works whether you believe in it or not. I know that doesn't seem like a joke, but you know what I'm saying?

2 (29m 35s):
way way way nana nana

3 (29m 47s):
So we first broadcast history back in 2016. Nana is still alive and the family still has not told her she has cancer and that is true. Even though Google went on after making this radio story for us to make the entire story into a film 98 visited the set met all the actors her sister little 99 is in the film playing herself, but lose were the cast and crew to secrecy. They told 9i that the film is about everybody in the family. Yes their family flying in for her grandson's wedding, which it is among other things the now they all face the problem.

3 (30m 34s):
The film is going to come out in China which means the family faces the tough decision. Are they now going to tell 9i Goos? Mom thinks they should not my sister's want to place yourself in the movie. Still believes that being in the dark about all this is what's keeping 9 I alive it doesn't want the family telling her. Again film is called the farewell. You can see it in theaters all across the country starting this weekend. It's just I can say one very real and sometimes very funny scene after another just a very entertaining film about this one family that takes you inside the family with so much feeling just seeing after seeing partly I'd say thanks to Aquafina who stars playing Lulu her face just carries so much of the emotion of the movie in this great way.

3 (31m 22s):
Anyway, coming up the stuff that all of us don't know we don't know side is actually tries to measure that that's in a minute from Chicago public radio when I program continues, Support for This American Life comes from rocket mortgage by Quicken Loans providing you with an award winning team by your side through the mortgage process. Their goal is to make the home buying process smoother for you with a history of Industry leading online lending technology developed in Detroit rocket mortgage is changing the game. Visit rocket mortgage.com American Equal Housing lender licensed in all 50 states and MLS consumer access dot org number 30 30 rocket mortgage by Quicken Loans push-button get mortgage.

3 (32m 10s):
This American Life America's today's program in defense of ignorance stories making the case for not knowing the case. I admit you do not hear very often. We arrived it at two of our program act to ignorance for dummies. So in the first half of our show we heard a woman who's kept in Ignorance by her family in this half of the show, we're going to turn to people who are just ignorant. They just don't know stuff and they don't know what they don't know which hello turns out to be all of us. Sean Cole has two tails and empirical data. There's this story about ignorance that David Dunning really loves he's a psychology professor and he's even cited it in his research. It's about a guy named MacArthur wheeler who in 1995 robbed a couple of Banks and Pennsylvania and didn't wear a mask and he was arrested and the police basically said, well, we have you on the surveillance tapes and he said no you don't and they showed him the tapes and he saw his face and He stared incredulously and said but I wore the juice I wore the juice the juice.

3 (33m 15s):
Yes. Apparently MacArthur wheeler was under the impression that smearing your face with lemon juice made it fuzzy or invisible to video cameras to his credit. He had actually tested this theory he took a selfie but I think he miss aim the camera the thing about MacArthur wheeler wasn't just that he was an idiot. It was that he thought he was doing everything right which made David Dunning think when people are wrong or when they're performing poorly or for lack of a better word when they're incompetent do they know they're incompetent and he had to guess which was no they do not know their in confident. And so we decided to do some experiments and find out now this may not sound like something you can easily test for it's like trying to measure the height and weight of somebody's insecurity but Professor Dunning and his grad student partner Justin Kruger figured out a way to do it.

3 (34m 9s):
They got different groups of undergrads together. This was a Cornell University and gave them one of three quizzes one was on grammar another on logical reasoning and another weirdly on humor. Like which one of these jokes is the funniest. They had a panel of comedians, right the jokes ahead of time and at the end of the quizzes they asked each student a simple question. How well do you think you did or more specifically in what percentile did you land? That is what percentage of the other students taking the test? Do you think you beat and then they gather together all of that data and ran the numbers and I still remember looking at the first graph to this day and the big finding is we took a look at the bottom 25% of people in each study.

3 (34m 55s):
These are the people who have done the worst their scores are falling in the 11th the 12th the 13th percentile in other words really low scores, but they think they're performing the 60th the 65th the 70th percentile. Among the better percentiles. That's right. They think that they've beat out a majority of their peers one way to think about it. If you look at people basically who are about to get D's and F's with the exam. They've just handed in they think they're getting B's B pluses with the exam. They just handed in in short there seemed to be a direct correlation between incompetence and an overweening sense of self-confidence. It wasn't apparent in every poor performing student, but it was in the majority of them.

3 (35m 37s):
Most people who did badly thought they did just fine or even great. They had no idea. Now anybody who's ever gone to school worked a job or known any other people knows this phenomenon, is that guy or lady who's cocky and yet has no idea what they're doing and it's infuriating but here in dunning's lab. It wasn't just an annoyance. It was a repeatable finding they did this experiment four times with four different groups of students and it happened every time bottom performers thought they were at least above average and in 1999 Dunning and Kruger published their findings in a paper called unskilled and unaware of it and their conclusion was this when someone asks so how do you think you did and you open your mouth to answer your

2 (36m 31s):
drawing on the same skill set to answer that question

3 (36m 35s):
that you used to answer the questions on the test. That is the lack of skill means that only are going to make a lot of mistakes, but it also means you're not going to be able to catch mistakes yours or anybody else's you're going to think often. What you're saying is absolutely reasonable. This is the double curse. It's not that you're ignorant and also happen to be overconfident you're ignorant and it makes you over confident on the other hand students who scored well who really were in the higher percentiles. They tended to Guess that they scored a little worse than they actually did and for kind of an endearing reason they figured most of the kids around them knew as much as they did.

3 (37m 16s):
In other words. They weren't mistaken about themselves. They knew themselves pretty well. They simply misjudged other people thinking we probably as smart as I am over the years dining and other researchers have run the same experiment in different ways over and over again, and the result was pervasive competitive Debaters who were doing badly didn't know they were doing badly people at chess tournaments trap and skeet Shooters when they're quizzed on gun safety. Medical professionals medical professionals you'll find for some procedures for example that the interns like catheterization procedures exactly 80 percent of them think they know this techniques.

3 (38m 2s):
So well, they can teach it to other people whereas 0 of their instructors agree. In fact 50% of their instructors say no this person needs still to be supervised whenever they do this only gevalt. Yeah and like all psychological phenomena this one pretty quickly grew a name Dunning was insistent that he and Krueger had nothing to do with the coining of that name the name the dunning-kruger effect. If you for example go on Twitter and type in dunning-kruger, you'll see the effect mentioned several times a day several times with family several times a day. Well, I have a computer in front of me and I'm going to Twitter and let me just put in Dunning Kruger.

3 (38m 49s):
Oh, here we go. Trump is a static display of dunning-kruger in effect. Where did you get your biology PhD dunning-kruger University, you're clueless rants merely reinforce your ignorance. Now, you see so very happy to get a meme out there in the world. I'm happy that it did so many people use it as an epithet this your name that they're using except exactly. It's just become a scientific way of calling somebody stupid which I guess we were sorely in need of but I think the thing that people in general Miss is that we're not talking about the brain of the incompetent. We're talking about the brain of all of us because sooner or later we step into that group sooner or later.

3 (39m 32s):
We become the poor performers. We all have our specific pockets of incompetence and we know some of them but they're a lot of them. We simply don't know and once we step into our own incompetence, we don't know we've made the step. This is really the disheartening Stoner inside of this research. If you think you're doing, well, it means one of two things either you're doing well, or you're not doing well at all. Try not to think about it too long. Really David Dunning who was thought about it more than anyone says it's made him particularly Vigilant about the things he says and does how he acts like trying to catch a candid glimpse of yourself in a mirror this one time for instance.

3 (40m 14s):
He was teaching a class giving them an exam and at the end of it. He asked the students the dunning-kruger question. How do you think you did and sure enough when he looked back at the tests? He noticed this one kid in particular who got one of the lowest grades in the group and rated himself in the 80th percentile and I decided I'm well, I'm going to peek at the name because I just have a suspicion. I'm going to see this person in my office and indeed when the test was headed back. He did come into my office because he did want to offer me a Hence graciously to admit that the answers that I had designated as correct on the exam. We're actually wrong.

3 (40m 55s):
Uh-huh. And so he's really trying too hard to be gracious. I could see some vibrations of outrage in his body and part of my brain is going watch this Analyze This what's going on what psychologically happening then I've got another part of my brain kind of going. Are you sure it's not you or you sure to send to you because I think it would be embarrassing for a person who has proposed the dunning-kruger framework to actually publicly display dunning-kruger, but the sad sad truth is what I dearly love would be to be able to see me in this circumstance to be aware of okay you I am having a Dunning Kruger moment, huh?

3 (41m 39s):
But according to my own Theory, I'll never have it. That's because other people can see when we're doing the dunning-kruger dance, but we can't Which makes you think why doesn't anybody say anything when it's little stuff your fly is down you have stuff on your face your real friends and even some stranger's will tell you but somehow when you're blowing a huge word balloon full of wrongness. That's when the rest of us decide to be polite to go along because to correct that weirdly confident. No, nothing jerk in the office just seems mean like it's not our place, but maybe it's meaner not to correct him. The real sadness for me is that often people are going to suffer for their mistakes, but they're never going to know it because if a person is a jerk in the office what happens is all the parties, they aren't invited to all the wonderful social interactions.

3 (42m 36s):
They just don't get to experience and it's likely that they don't notice the absence of this so you don't know you're incompetent. You can't figure it out on your own and the world is treating you by being silent. It well, how do you improve yourself under those conditions? I should say that Dunning and Kruger is research has been criticized over the years other researchers have tried to punch holes in their conclusion even going so far as to publish papers with alternative statistical explanations for Dunning and Kruger findings and Dunning says he and his partner have responded to those critics in print and may have convinced some but certainly not all of them, which he actually takes to be a plus because the critics they haven't convinced are really confident in their opinions and Dunning and Kruger are really confident in there's so one or the other is dead wrong and just doesn't know it Charles Cole is one of the producers of our show like three forget-me-nots we're going today is about ignorance.

3 (43m 54s):
Of course a huge part of all of our ignorance is the stuff that we To know that we have all forgotten all our lives. There's a huge undertow of forgetting that sucks old classmates names into the abyss the French that we studied that we never used and the pots and cast of favorite movies. We used to love because this of course see this is a curse putting Stephanie Foo.

2 (44m 18s):
I have several large unwieldy boxes stacked in corners of my apartment. I almost never open them but I've slept these boxes. So the 12 tiny Apartments. I've lived in in the past decade. They're full of notebooks external hard drives thousands of sheets of paper photographs VHS tapes full of all my memories starting journals. I wrote when I was five years old the idea that there are whole weeks even months of my life that have just disappeared into the abyss of forgetfulness is horrifying to me. If I can't take these memories with me to the rest of my life. Then what's the point of even living them in the first place to hold on. The past a couple times a month.

2 (44m 59s):
I'll sit in my kitchen table alone in my apartment and I'll just start recording these long soliloquies about whatever here's one actual recording from February 24th, 2014 11 p.m. A six-pack of Corona. And Pacifico is $11, which I thought was super atrocious. And so I tried to buy like whatever like a four pack of cans of Corona cans and he was like, oh that's $9 and I was like, well, I might as well just buy the fucking six packs because I'm sure in the year 2030 that members going to be helpful. So all this to say that my obsession with my ever fleeting memories is what made me really excited when I heard about this condition called hsam.

2 (45m 42s):
It stands for highly Superior autobiographical memory. June 10th 2006 tell me what was the weather like and what day was that?

3 (45m 53s):
So June 10th 2006 was a Saturday and I remember it was a nice sunny day because I was outside for graduation party. I was actually DJing the party. That was one of my part-time jobs in

2 (46m 4s):
college. Joie de grandis is one of only about 60 people in the world who have been officially found to have H Sam. And by the way, I checked it was a Saturday and integrand Falls, Ohio Sunny Joey remembers very specific details from every single day of the last 25 years of his life. I'm sitting across a table from him. When I ask him these random questions. He wasn't prepped on any of them. He's not using his phone to look anything up. When were the Oscars in 1999.

3 (46m 36s):
The Oscars in 99 were on Sunday, March 21st. Oh my God bonus, I think will be Goldberg hosted at that

2 (46m 42s):
year. Okay, which episode is the one where Rachel

3 (46m 47s):
quits? Okay. I like the first few seasons of friends more than the others. So I think that that was season 3. I want to say December 1296.

2 (47m 1s):
Yes, that's amazing. People with HCM don't remember everything in their lives and their memories can be flawed and biased just like everyone else's but they remember a whole hell of a lot more than we do and are particularly good at remembering things. They care about people with HCM who love sports have an encyclopedic knowledge of scores Joey's really good with TV shows and he tells me it's kind of like all the memories are available at any given time for him to sort of scroll

3 (47m 35s):
through for for the for the show. Madman. Don is pitching I think Kodak and you know, he's he's talking about the the projector, you know, how it's sort of a carousel of memory and it's a it's not spot on how I remember things but it's it's pretty damn close Carousel of memory. Yeah, it's it and I think that the words I'm trying to recall exactly the voiceover for this for this teaser of something like, you know, there's a rare occasion when the public can be

2 (48m 4s):
engaged. Come on. Here's that scene.

3 (48m 6s):
There's the rare occasion when Public can be engaged on a level Beyond flash. Its Nostalgia Nostalgia delicate the potent, you know, it takes us to a place where we long to go again. It takes us to a

1 (48m 17s):
place. Where we ache to go again,

3 (48m 23s):
you know and that's exactly how I feel when I think about my memories you want to be there. Sometimes I am there whether or not I choose to

2 (48m 32s):
you know, how Facebook gives you notifications about what you posted a year ago. Today Joey to grandis plays that game in his head all the time. He texts friends on a regular basis saying hey, you move to New York three years ago today or hey six months ago today. We went karaoke Inge and that little basement bar. His friends tell me they enjoy the updates. It's like having your own personal biographer of your friendship, but having H Sam is like constantly scrolling through your Facebook wall 24/7 and just like any sort of late-night scrolling. It keeps him up at night when Joey lies down. He just starts remembering too much lately. He thinks over and over about a guy he dated which seems normal except their whole relationship only lasted for a couple of months and it ended two years.

2 (49m 19s):
Ago, but Joey can't help but go through their whole relationship in incredibly my new detail on a regular basis,

3 (49m 26s):
March 19 2014, you know, we went to Max Brenner and Union Square and had like Sundaes and chocolate or not. It

1 (49m 32s):
was so fun and

3 (49m 33s):
romantic, you know, like that was March 20th, and he's like, oh my God, Joey you're like the funniest person. I know and of course my heart grew three sizes because I'm like, oh that this must be it the next day. He texted me a picture of his cat and it was March 29th. So that next week was the first time that we had a sexual encounter and that was really exciting for me because again, this was just like more confirmation of the fact that like, maybe this is something you know, maybe this is April 19th, which was Easter Weekend 2014 everything just kind of went downhill and so Then it all fell apart. You know,

2 (50m 10s):
that's the problem. How do you get over someone when you can't forget them?

1 (50m 23s):
Well the way I explain it is, you know, how you've got, you know your baggage. I got a steamer trunk

2 (50m 31s):
Jill Price also has H Sam. She just turned 50 and says she's got 50 years of stuff and the steamer trunk is humongous or shifting metaphors a little.

1 (50m 41s):
So if you were, you know, you have like every day is like a bag of garbage and then you go to sleep and you wake up the next day and it's a fresh day and you can like throw that garbage bag out from the day before I don't have that. I got massive amounts of just piled up garbage bags

2 (50m 56s):
everywhere Jill is an LA and she's worked as a script supervisor on set her age. Sam was really useful because our job was to make sure that continuity was preserved throughout the film that Hair looks the same from shot to shot that a table is set in exactly the same way. And of course Jill remembered how that table looked even if the last shot happened weeks ago. I called her up because I wanted to find out if resentment about the past is a side effect of HCM for anyone other than Joey short answer.

1 (51m 27s):
Yes. Like I'm still pissed about stuff from when I was five and that's ridiculous.

2 (51m 34s):
Jill says she can forgive but she can never forget but maybe not being able to forget sort of hinders her ability to forgive as well as the rest of us like she told me she still angry about this thing that happened in her first year at College three decades ago Jill had this calendar that she'd used as a diary writing down details about each of her days in cramped handwriting so minuscule. It's barely

1 (51m 59s):
legible like written all over. I mean everything was on their 1983 was like a really important year. Everything was on

2 (52m 8s):
there everything you can imagine.

1 (52m 11s):
Well, it could be the weather could be I

2 (52m 13s):
mean like what do you mean like snacks? Like who you talk to? Like? What is every every yes everything Joe left the calendar to Mom's house for a few months while she went back to school and the next time she came back. The calendar was gone. I have by the

1 (52m 29s):
calendar. I'm like looking everywhere. So I hysterically go running through the house trying to get my parents to understand like what just happened how important this was. Like, where's my journal what in and they're like, we don't know, you know, and I remember they had somebody at the house they were talking to so it was like I was interrupting some sort of a business meeting, but I was also freaking out and I didn't really care and even to this day just recently I said to my mom, you know, I brought that up I said and you did not really had no idea. She thought I was rehashing things.

1 (53m 10s):
You know, like why can't you just get over what happened when you were five? What what is this? You know, so she couldn't understand why I was bothered or so upset about things that happened decades ago where to me it was like

2 (53m 27s):
yesterday. Why is it like super tragic that you don't have that calendar now?

1 (53m 39s):
Well, I do have it because I then went back a couple years later and I rewrote the whole thing. I mean I couldn't write every single thing. But I tried to go back and redo the entire calendar. That was how important it

2 (53m 53s):
was to me. Yeah, and if it's all in your head it's saved in there. Anyway, then why bother writing it down

1 (53m 59s):
because if I didn't write it down I would have like 50 years of stuff just constantly swirling and writing it down just sort of relaxes it and it's makes it so that You know, it's it's there it's happened and it's put away.

2 (54m 16s):
Does that make sense? Yeah, it makes a lot of sense. I talked to a number of people with h Sam and it seems like their days are filled with random memories showing up like bees buzzing around their head until they can get swarmed by writing this stuff down Jill manages the memories like she's taking them one by one cataloging them and putting them into a filing cabinet. There's a link between obsessive-compulsive disorder OCD and H Sam, maybe having the power to remember so much makes you want obsessively do it all the time. Or maybe it's the other way around desperately wanting to remember everything give certain people the ability to do it phenomenally well, Either way researchers say they seem to go hand in

3 (55m 1s):
hand

2 (55m 8s):
about a year and a half ago. I had a really bad breakup and one of the ways I got over my ex was by managing my memories, which is pretentious way to say. I told myself it was a douchebag. I dwelled on all the bad parts of the relationship all is irritating qualities, but recently I was flipping through some countries in my journal from a few months before I got bad not for fun for this story. I'm not that far gone in one entry. He intuited when I was feeling low and said exactly the right thing and another we went to a perfect dinner where we got free dessert restaurants were constantly giving us free food. We couldn't figure out why but eventually settled on the idea that people liked us because we just look so happy.

2 (55m 52s):
I had of course blocked all of these memories out because they didn't fit into the story. I was telling myself. And I did not want them back it have been good. Forget. And the difference between me and people with age Sam is that I have the choice to stop reading the diary to just walk away. Jill doesn't have that

1 (56m 13s):
choice. It didn't like paralyzed me until my husband died like that. His death has really like paralyzed

2 (56m 22s):
me. How was it

1 (56m 23s):
paralyzing? Because I will never ever ever ever forget that

2 (56m 31s):
of course no one forgets their spouse dying, but for Jill it's different.

1 (56m 37s):
I am still in March of 2005 when he died. Yeah. Not every minute, but I could really put myself in that week and feel it and

2 (56m 56s):
so it hurts like it like it happened yesterday.

1 (56m 59s):
Yeah now the the feeling that I was not going to survive, I don't feel that way anymore because I have survived, you know, but

2 (57m 13s):
how often do you think about

1 (57m 14s):
that? I'll probably like 10 times today. Mmm. Even though I get up every day, I feel like I'm still standing in the same place. It's like it's really being stuck. It's being stuck in a moment that you can't there's no escaping that. Do you wish that you could forget it? Yeah, or or remember it the way normal people remember it

2 (57m 46s):
how do normal people remember it?

1 (57m 48s):
I don't know but it's not like I mean, I don't think that somebody would be sitting here 11 years later still like feeling it the way I feel it. See I wish you could understand and I wish I could understand what it's like to be able to like let things fade and or not. Let just that's the way it is.

2 (58m 17s):
Jill says it's not like she's only reliving bad memories. She likes to go back to one of her favorite afternoons, October 19 1979 and the ninth grade when she had a bad day at school and her mom surprised her with homemade soup when she got home. But when the bad ones come on, she can't help but get emotional and they come on all the time. If you did not have H Sam. How do you think your life would be different today?

1 (58m 49s):
I think that I would have been able to move forward. I think I probably would be married today. I don't think I would be so scared. I would be able to just move walk forward instead of constantly looking back. Okay, so let's put it let's let's reverse this so that you maybe understand you know, your boyfriend you guys broke up. Yeah. How long were you like upset about it or until the point where you felt like, you can move forward without thinking about it all the time or move forward without it like ripping your heart out. Oh

2 (59m 27s):
God, like 3

1 (59m 29s):
months. I don't have that luxury.

2 (59m 36s):
And so are you jealous of

1 (59m 38s):
me? No, no. Because I on the flip side of all that I can't imagine what it's like to not remember my life. Like I really can't understand how Nobody Does even though it is tormented me. It's just everything was just is so important to me that I just I hold onto it so tight that I wouldn't want to not be able to do that.

2 (1h 0m 7s):
I'm not jealous of her either ever since talking to these people with age Sam for the first time in my life. I actually feel just fine about forgetting. I know that sounds like it's the end of the radio story of this is just what you say, but like I cannot stress how sincere I am about this

1 (1h 0m 26s):
totally fine about forgetting.

3 (1h 0m 35s):
73 who choose to be one of our producers here. She's not working on a book about complex PTSD.

1 (1h 0m 44s):
Don't take a

2 (1h 0m 45s):
picture.

3 (1h 1m 5s):
We're program is pretty chilly by Sean coal is that we chased Neil drumming Stephanie Phil Connor. Jaffe wall, Joe level Mickey make Jonathan menjivar. Brian Reed Robin Simian virus. Methyl Ester ship Mac, Tierney and Nancy Updike additional help from Julie Snyder on a baker and Jessica lessin, hop research help from Crystal versatile and Michelle Harris music up today from Damien grave from Rob Geddes special. Thanks today to Michael Werner and Miles lock our website This American Life dot-org. This American life is over the public radio stations by PRX the public radio exchange sport for This American Life comes from Lagunitas. Beer Circus, wild Carnival entertainment live beer and fresh music and a fitting local nonprofits the circus stops in Seattle, Chicago and Petaluma, California tickets at Lagunitas.com / Beer Circus.

3 (1h 1m 53s):
Things you can't unsee. Thanks, as always to our programs co-founder. Mr. Torme out of ta you know, I always tell him every day is a bowl of cherries and he always responds

1 (1h 2m 2s):
every day is like a bag of garbage.

3 (1h 2m 4s):
I'm Ira Glass back next week with more stories of This American Life. Next week on the podcast of This American Life for six months. Hi Mae was held captive in the middle of the Jungle a hostage completely alone. You see all those movies that ramble just exercises when he's in jail. And you say well, I'm going to start exercising you start getting in shape. Let me tell you but you get born hostages all kinds of hostages next week on the podcast on your local public radio station.