1 (1s):
Support for This American Life comes from Capital One Capital one's banking app lets you manage your money anytime anywhere Capital One. This is banking reimagined. What's in your wallet Capital One and a support for This American Life comes from better help online counseling better help offers licensed counselors who specialize in issues including depression stress and self-esteem get help on your own time at your own pace and at an affordable rate for a special offer visit better help.com Tal. Rachel was identity theft ID and a person is the kind of thing that you hear about money was Vanishing from her bank account and it turned out to be some charges and ATM withdrawals that she had made herself.

1 (47s):
So she found this out but you figured okay, no problem call the bank explain situation. They'll take care of it even figured out how it probably happened Jim visiting friends in Chicago sitting in a coffee shop and this guy walked in wearing a windbreaker and sat sort of at the table next to us. And at one point he just kind of of brushed against me and I had my purse actually hanging over the chair and it wasn't until like after he had left and I went to pay that. I realized that my wallet was gone. They just figured that was the person who stole your identity. Yeah, my social security card had been in there and I thought that was something you could do with that. So she goes and closes out her bank account switches to a different bank same thing happens, but it just starts disappearing.

1 (1m 33s):
Because of several Banks this way, it's like a game of Banker mole wherever money goes the Identity Thief arrives. I was like, I don't really know what else I can do. I closed everything really started to figure out for my name is just, you know, keep Vanishing inexplicably a ver control. I started to become distant a very paranoid person all the time like after you know, this had been happening for a year or two. I was just like very anxious all the time there. One point where I thought that my mail was being stolen because I was like, how else is this happening? So I got a PO box and I got to the point where I thought someone was following me.

1 (2m 14s):
Like I was just so paranoid that I would like try to find alternate routes to get to my PO box so that I don't know they can figure out where your PO Boxes. Yeah pack your PO Box. Yeah. I mean, it sounds so crazy looking back. To be honest, I don't have that much money. Like I was working at a non-profit Children's Museum and trying to wait tables to supplement my income but my boyfriend at the time was like helping me out. Like I always paid my rent. I didn't want him to like pay for me or anything. It was very uncomfortable for me, but he would like buy the groceries and do everything.

1 (2m 55s):
I would pay my rent and he would kind of take care of everything else and what did he do for? Living so he was always into politics. So at that point he was working at the Massachusetts state house working for the president of the Senate. Oh, yeah, I can see yeah fancy job and without him she really be sunk because money just keeps Vanishing from her bank accounts So eventually she just gives up on the entire banking system. She goes through last account at the bank put all of the money that was remaining thousand dollars into a bank check that she keeps in a drawer. Hannah's Oliver finances and cash and money orders problem solved the glass. Until she and her boyfriend decide they're going to move and she needs a thousand dollars and she goes to the top dresser drawer where she keeps all of her financial stuff the receipts and statements and all that and there's no check and she's like, okay.

1 (3m 48s):
Well, maybe it fell behind the dresser. Maybe I put it somewhere else. And so we like tore apart the apartment just like flipping couch cushions and like opening drawers and I just like having a panic attack because this is all the money that I had in the world and we couldn't Find it. So she goes to the bank and they were like you already cash this check and I showed her a copy and then we're my signature was was my forged signature and it was my boyfriend's hand learning. Pom. Pom pom. It was the boyfriend after all think about it. Who else could it be in retrospect Rachel says that she assured there was some small part of her in the back of her brain, which was like, okay what if it's him?

1 (4m 34s):
I mean, of course, it's something you would think about and the banks are always like do you have a boyfriend? It's the boyfriend like that's what guys would say that they would suggest that yeah any bank or police officer would always think do you have a boyfriend? It's the boyfriend. It's always the boyfriend and I was like, you don't know my boyfriend. You don't know my boyfriend. These are like magic words that sometimes keep people from seeing things that are right in front of their face. You don't know my boyfriend. My boyfriend is like the king of like generosity and kindness. So giving all the time to everyone just giving you just want to give you don't know my boyfriend. You don't know my wife. You don't know my spouse. You don't know my partner. You don't know them.

1 (5m 14s):
Like I know them is one of the dangers of getting close to somebody to get close to you have to agree. I trust you. I believe you. I know that what you say is true. You know, what I say is true and sometimes that is a mistake. That's one of the Perils of intimacy. There are others too. Of course, that's what I chose about today The Perils of intimacy today. We have grown men awkwardly trying to make friends with each other. Not sure what to talk about. We have people uh, nervous First Dates bravely fighting their own insecurities and anxieties. There are downsides to being close to somebody let's talk about that for a change instead of how great it is to be married forever and blah blah blah Bridget Jones wedding toast blah blah blah single people.

1 (5m 57s):
There are 36 million. Living alone a hundred thirty nine million of your own married and I don't know since the pandemic you might be feeling more isolated than ever. Here is an hour to make you feel good about that for change WBZ Chicago. It's This American Life. I'm Ira Glass stay with us. So make sure came back from the bank from seeing her boyfriends handwriting on the check that he stole from her when she got back to the studio apartment that they shared and confront them with the truth. Obviously. You know, how is she not going to ditch him but seven bed with her and did something he broke down crying and he said I have to tell you something and I don't want to tell you because I'm afraid that if I tell you you're going to leave me and That's when he told me that he has impulse control disorder that he's been diagnosed with this like for many years and that he's done a lot of stupid stuff and he said he was seeing a therapist and getting help for it.

1 (7m 9s):
How long have you guys been together? Probably four years and three year three years. Yeah. I don't be disrespectful to somebody's like actual disease, but the name impulse control disorder just sounds like the name of like well, that's just like saying like I just couldn't help myself. I just wanted to like take money from a cash register. I have impulse control disorder. Right? Like I just wanted to like sleep with your sister. Like I haven't closed control disorder, you know, like it just seems like the most I mean I say with respect to people who might have this as a real disorder right and like, you know any tell these stories and then you just feel like how do you not know? You just sounds so stupid but back then I think I like needed to hear that.

1 (7m 53s):
There was some sort of like medical reason like, okay like it's not always an explanation. Yeah, like he's not a bad person. He's just like going through something that's like out of his control and it's medical. Yes interesting how a person would want that rather than the other thing. Well, yeah, I would like a bow I could tie up and be like, well, here's why Not like you've been living for years with a sociopath. I think the other one sounded better. So the time she accepted. All right, he has an impulse control disorder and she believed the disorder is what caused them to steal the very last money.

1 (8m 36s):
She had in this world and forge her name on a check and then search for the check with her pretending. He had no idea where the check could have gone. But that's all she thought he did that tiny. Morsel of truth is She was able to take in at that point. If you did not put together the whole truth. They've been stealing from her for over a year that he was the Identity Thief not some stranger in a dingy apartment in Chicago. He was the Identity Thief who made her so totally stressed out over money all the time who drove her to the point where she was looking over her shoulder as she walked to her own post office box. They stay together for another year and a half. And before you judge. Okay, before you think how could you do that? I'll explain how it's really interesting and I think it can happen to a lot of us for starters her boyfriend had been the one steady thing in her life, right?

1 (9m 25s):
She's going through this hard time with banks and credit cards and it's not ending and he was the one thing she thought you could depend on. It's just hard to let that go. Ah, God makes me sound so stupid. But yeah, I really thought I knew what good was like everything felt so bad and so hard to control. I was like he has to be good because if he's not good nothing is good, right? That's the whole premise. That's the premise of your life, right? Yeah. Yeah. I was like rationally there's no way that it was him because like he literally supports me.

1 (10m 6s):
He buys all of our groceries and he pays all of our bills and he is legitimately like my personal Army to try and figure out the identity fraud, right? So just doesn't add up there have that that person also be taking money from me the person who's actually paying for everything, right? Yeah. So it's like why would someone steal from you and then spend it on you? Like it just didn't make sense to me, but weird Financial stuff keeps happening. Way to get phone calls about credit cards that are in her name that she never took out and knew nothing about her car gets booted. Even the Rachel never got a ticket or self and occasionally the thought would cross her mind. Okay, if I broke up with him what others troubles go away.

1 (10m 47s):
And you're just kind of brush that thought away. Once the boyfriend stepmother said something to Rachel she was like the evil stepmom that he he like hated her and he kind of got me to hater and I realized years later. She was the only one who was on to him. This happened early on the step. Mom said to Rachel I hear you having some kind of identity theft problems house. It can choose like do you guys like go over Bells together? Like do you guys ever do that kind of stuff together? And I was like, no I don't want to do it. It stresses me out and she was like A really important part of a relationship is like figuring out Financial stuff. Like, you know, maybe you should look into that and like make sure that like he's got things under control, you know, like really tried to get me to like do stuff with him.

1 (11m 33s):
And I honestly, I know she said something sort of rude about him like he's not great at this like and I shut it down like I was just like you don't know because he made me hate her so years later, I realize oh my God, she tried to warn me. But he had done such a good job of like protection that I was like she's not even a candidate for like trusting since did you think about what was in this with the boyfriend and I mean stealing from her making her feel so anxious and paranoid about her finances and then stepping in to comfort her and save the day and help her out using her money like he was like a caretaker.

1 (12m 21s):
It like made him really happy. He like really wanted to provide think he really wanted to be a provider and he would like make me he's like fancy dinners every night like pack my lunch for work and stuff like that. So like I say you're in a half passes and he asked Rachel to marry him. She says, yes, she's really happy next morning. This happens the very next morning. She gets a call from their landlord do the boyfriend had always dealt with and he was just screaming and Amy's, I don't know what you and your boyfriend are trying to pull but you owe me like $16,000 whatever it was like and you're being evicted and why aren't you returning my calls? And I was like, I have no idea what you're talking about.

1 (13m 5s):
And he was like, you're a liar just like your boyfriend should be giving her boyfriend her half of the rent, but he hadn't paid the landward in a year and she was like, okay. Well, where did that money go? And she started to look for it. She went through his stuff for the first time without him around and open drawers. And found all kinds of bills and credit cards in his name from American Express and Banana Republic and all kinds of other places a whole secret Financial chaos, and then they fight about how he'd been lying to her. And this is what breaks them up though. It takes a few weeks for them to break up which I get he'd been her College boyfriend. They've been together five years. They were engaged. So okay takes weeks and during those weeks horribly.

1 (13m 48s):
We started planning a wedding. Like I kind of went into like a catatonic like state of existence where I went through the motions for like a month. We're like, we would go look at wedding places, but in the back of my mind, I was like I can't marry this person, but I couldn't say it out loud. I did call her boyfriend to run all this by him everything Rachel said and give them a chance. Respond, but he said no people close to Rachel and to him did confirm her story. So finally they agreed that we can take a break for a few days think about things talk to their families men come back and figure things out together and he went home to his parents and I went to my parents and And I never ever saw him ever again.

1 (14m 40s):
Never. Months later. I was living with roommates and like put together that like four years. I'd been living with this person who's stealing from me and like started to put together like, oh my God, like he wasn't working like he would get up every day and like get dressed and leave the house when I left the house and he would pretend to go to work. I never went to his office like when he was working at the state house. He showed me his office from the car is like look that that gold domed building.

1 (15m 20s):
Like that's where I work. I'm so excited and like I just realized like I don't know anything that was real. Like I don't know when he was working or when he wasn't like you never met any of his office Maids? No, I heard stories about them all the time. So he had names of people who he said he worked with totally well with the names. I remember an from the Statehouse he had a boss. I think he had named him Rob and I just remember because there was this one time he called me at work and he was like really upset because he's at the airport and he was like, we're all were all supposed to go on a trip to DC and it ends up. There's like a problem with the flight and we have to get on the next flight and there's not enough room for everyone and I'm really bummed because I don't think I'm going to get to go on the trip because I'm not like important enough.

1 (16m 9s):
I cannot high up enough. And he ends up not being able to go on the trip, and he was calling me from the airport telling me the story and I felt so bad for him. But he didn't work and those people weren't real and he wasn't at the airport. I don't know because probably at home. Yeah, this idea that when we discovered the truth it is as all at once, you know, we see what's real and what isn't in a flash of understanding fact the thing that we call an experience like that is the Moment of Truth as we say the Moment of Truth.

1 (16m 50s):
We do not say dragged out your and a half of the truth. That's how it goes sometimes. So now as you come to accept the truth slowly stages, sometimes we have reasons to hold on to a guy when I'm ready to let go of the world that the live preserves the people of I keeps close to us. When we release the live from our hand one finger at a time. What do they show is a rerun from four years ago and in the time since we first broadcast the story I'm glad to say that Rachel has gotten married. She says her husband is honest and open and there are no trust issues between the two of them.

1 (17m 31s):
She's now written about her experience in a book of stories called this can't be happening. That to Why Can't We Be Friends? Okay, fellow adults. Here's a question. When did you ask make a friend? Look at me in an actual friend who you see regularly you talk about actual personal things. It's hard right to make a new one to get to that point to get through the awkward. Hey, you wanna hang out sometime phase?

1 (18m 11s):
I mean this thing right now with this guy who honestly I got like maybe we're going to become friends and he sent me an email saying okay, let's have dinner and I thought great and I responded with a specific time. I said Thursday, how about Thursday? heard nothing then a few days later in an email about something completely else. He suggested again. Like hey, we should do dinner sometime. And again, I was like great. How about Thursday? again her nothing What is that people? How to adults become friends now drumming on our staff has run a little experiment with human guinea pigs on this particular subject.

1 (18m 51s):
I have no idea how adults make new friends I'd like to but I'm not really trying I don't join clubs. I don't ask my co-workers out for drinks. And when I am at bars, I don't do this.

2 (19m 4s):
I have gone out by myself and just trying to talk about sports, you know, which is used with blaring on the TV or about the beer like I'll know someone In order to be your next to me like oh, you know, how is that I really like, hoppy beers blah blah blah.

1 (19m 17s):
That's Chris Garbin poor guy. He's 37 years old nine months ago. He moved his family from San Francisco to Austin for a teaching gig at a small University leaving. Most of his male friends back on the west coast. He has no choice but to start over. I haven't left New York in 16 years. But so many of my male friends have recently moved or drifted away that I probably need to start over too. I haven't done anything about it except maybe complain and overburden my romantic relationships the thing I found remarkable about Chris was that he was being proactive. He was actively seeking male friends. He got on meetup.com. He formed a men's only book club.

1 (19m 57s):
He memorized baseball statistics as conversation starters. He started going to be Powers expressly for the purpose of meeting other hetero dudes.

2 (20m 6s):
The only time I remember ever gone really well really. Well. I've been in Austin maybe for about a month and I was soon at this brewery near my house and I was eating dinner. I think my wife had our daughter out somewhere. So I was on my own and this guy sat next to me and he was there with some of his friends and I don't remember how it started. But at some point he actually kind of like turned towards me and for A good I would say at least 20 minutes. If not half hour. It was just me and him we were talking and we're talking talking talking. I remember in the back Landing like how this is. This is head and like this is how you start a like a guy friendship and then at some point he started talking about how he was a vat and you've been in Iraq and they were talking about how he just flew somewhere and he took his concealed gun like into the airport and the TSA flipped out about it.

2 (20m 59s):
I'm thinking okay, like I'm not a gun guy and Like I don't really even know anything about guns, but I'm just gonna shake my head like, okay sure. You know, I'm in Texas. Now. This is how it is and then out of nowhere. I think he grabbed my knee if I remember correctly, but he definitely liked moved kind of closer to me and looked me right in the eye and said you got to get a gun bro. You got to protect your family. You've got to protect your daughter bro. Now, it's like oh, yeah. I

1 (21m 29s):
do. Did you feel like you You needed a gun to protect your home and family. Oh, okay course not so why did you agree to continue on this line?

2 (21m 41s):
Because I was desperate for

1 (21m 42s):
friends. The only reason I know about Chris's predicament is because he emailed This American Life about it. And even though I could relate I wouldn't have given the letter a second thought if it didn't remind me of my buddy Evan Evan coincidentally had also just moved to Austin with his Our and his young daughter I could tell from Facebook that they'd managed to get set up. Okay, but Evan was already feeling lonely that special kind of loneliness that people in long-term relationships often know too. Well, we

2 (22m 14s):
do things together. We're raising a child together, but like Rap friends. Yeah, you know

1 (22m 21s):
that's seven. He's

2 (22m 22s):
honest put the parts of identity that like make me who I am because nerd like reading and writing about comic books and video games and movies. I need somebody to share that with because we don't have similar interest in that regard or similar taste. So like, you know, this is the part of his act was important to me and I want somebody to care about the share that with and traditionally that's where I've gone to Friends

1 (22m 48s):
for yeah, Evan is one of those friends. I let slip away in a flurry of rain checks earlier this year. We've known each other. I don't know maybe 10 years now. He used to recommend comic books and Xbox games that I never read nor finished part of what I love about Evan is how unabashedly he is who he is. He's honest somewhat awkward and above all a nerd. Although I think he'd accept the term black geek. He says he wasn't always so confident about these parts of his personality and moving to Austin. Ian away from his friends and peers living on the Sleepy edge of town with only his partner and daughter has put him in unfamiliar territory. What is your place like?

2 (23m 28s):
It's nice. Like there's like a pool like maybe like a couple hundred feet away from us and there's like tennis courts. Not the number we're going to use them. Like it's nice

1 (23m 39s):
Evan wasn't putting himself out there. But Chris was and they live in the same city both men both dads around the same age both want friends. Maybe I've been making it out to be harder than it actually is maybe all you have to do to make a friend is get off your ass and try it was a chance to find out without, you know, actually having to do anything myself. I fix Evan and Chris up on a date a mandate. You can't have a mandate without an official activity. Those are the rules. So the first thing I did was write to Chris in heaven and ask them each what they were into Chris sent me a list that included hiking running karaoke and something called disc golf Evan said he likes playing video games and eating and drinking in moderation.

1 (24m 35s):
I suggested they go see Captain America Civil War which was coming out in a week. The trailer was awesome plus the movie stars. Chris Evans is Captain America Chris Evans. That's fate right Evan email me that heat wrangled free passes to an early screening more faith, though. He was concerned about inviting Chris. The movie features The Cinematic debut of Evans all-time favorite comic book superhero the Black Panther and he was worried that Chris a total stranger might witness him crying. I grabbed feet by the hand and convince Evan to give up his plus-one. Anyway, when I email Chris the good news, he wrote back that quote hate may be too strong a word but I really dislike the newest round of superhero movies.

1 (25m 20s):
I didn't tell Evan about that. We kept looking eventually we settled on trivia night at a brew house in town. But by then the whole idea had started to feel a little precarious for one thing. Chris was having some weird misgivings.

2 (25m 33s):
The first thing I did was Google Him and see who this person was. I even went on to his Twitter feed and saw that he was interacting with people and retweeting people who seemed really big in his field and it was intimidating. I mean, the first thing I thought was I feel sorry for this guy having to go out with me. You know, I really felt like he didn't need this.

1 (25m 54s):
He felt like Evan was out of his League. Meanwhile ever was not even thinking about Chris. He never Googled him and when Chris gave Evan his phone number over email multiple times. Never responded with his when I talk to Evan hours before the date. His biggest worry was traffic. He moved to Texas from New York City. He hadn't driven in years.

2 (26m 15s):
There's so much unpredictability surrounding you even when you feel like I'm in control like I feel confident about my abilities, but you didn't without their like making a stuffing turn or like this. It's

1 (26m 26s):
stressful. I get it having relied on the subway. Most of my life driving scares the crap out of me, too. But I needed Evan to get his head in the game. You see by now. I was starting to think that Chris and Evan might not immediately or ever become fast friends. They might just be too different but whether they recognize that or not there was something that connected them. I could see it from my perch 1,800 miles away. Even when they couldn't even is a deep dive pop culture. Junkie. Chris is an English Professor who's into sports. They were opposite sides of an egg headed coin between I figured they must have the gamut of trivia game minutia thoroughly covered if my experiment wouldn't generate a lifelong friendship.

1 (27m 11s):
At least it was within my power to forge the mightiest trivia team in all of Austin on this particular Wednesday night in this hope I was not alone. Evan was poised to win

2 (27m 22s):
if there's a whole bunch of superheroes video. They are like you better believe like I want to try and own it.

1 (27m 28s):
Yeah. Well, I've heard I know I looked at the website for the trivia night and I so like some Star Wars references and things and yeah so

2 (27m 36s):
far towards Lord of the Rings and some other stuff but you know, I've got my weaknesses in

1 (27m 40s):
certain areas. Wait, what are your weaknesses? I don't know what your weaknesses are

2 (27m 44s):
token. I don't fucking like at all.

1 (27m 47s):
Really.

2 (27m 48s):
Yeah. No. No, that's cool though is too white for me.

1 (27m 55s):
The men of the Mandate arrives and I hear nothing from Chris or Evan not a text. Not an email the next morning still nothing. I finally talked to Chris that afternoon about how the night went being the eager one. He got into the bar first. I got there and it was going table to table asking if we could sit down and every single person said no, you know kind of reminded me of elementary school where you're going table table asking if you can sit all the cool kids are saying no, I mean that's kind of what it felt. Like I really felt like I was already in the hole before. I haven't even arrived they'd agreed ahead of time on how they would recognize each other. He told me that he was going to be wearing a purple shirt and yellows Isn't he was going to be limping slightly because he had a stubbed toe.

1 (28m 39s):
So I got there a little bit early order drink right away. Can I get a fungus called a nice long stride up to the first white dude with a blue shirts and go to stage and just go introduce myself and it wasn't me. And as soon as I saw it I said this my guy how tight was his shirt. I know how I haven't like started crying. It was a sure I would not be able to wear in public and then he said, Down and then the first thing he did was order lemonade. I thought oh no, this is gonna be bad Evan eventually ordered some bourbon, but not too much moderation. So I said, you know, we need a teen and what you want and he just ripped off.

1 (29m 20s):
He said where the lonely transplants I said. All right, you know that I thought was a little on the nose. I mean, I was a little briefer than you know, two dudes one from New York one from California. Both of whom can't find any friends blah blah blah. But yeah lonely transplants. Name the lonely transplants, right? The trivia night that Christian Heaven went to is officially called Geeks Who Drink and Evan killed it just as I had hoped Chris was impressed. There was a whole category about directors. They would show us clips and we have to kind of guess what the movie was and he was getting those left and right and I honestly sat there I sat there for entire rounds without doing anything.

1 (30m 5s):
In the lonely transplants did not turn out to be the quickfire of mine melded dream team that I had hoped for there was one where the answer was a loofah, you know, like a bath loofah. It's an organic substance that you have to microwave once a day. So it cleans out the bacteria and I I for whatever reason I thought it was a sea cucumber and he's like no it's aloof I was like no, I promise. It's a sea cucumber and if it's wrong I will leave Chris says Eva. Didn't actually force him to leave or hold it over his head that he wasn't pulling his weight Chris took that to mean that things were going well between them. The lonely transplants came in 19th out of about 30 teams, but their meager showing didn't matter to Chris.

1 (30m 51s):
This is a guy who had told me that he was missing spontaneity in his life that his everyday felt scheduled around work and running errands and toddler parties. He was feeling like there were no surprises left suddenly here. He was trying to remember who recorded Rock Me Amadeus with this sort of awkward sort of dapper black dude from Brooklyn and he knew it was by Falco. I forgotten his by Falco and I didn't write. Falco is cool now Evans a cool, dude. And yeah, I think you know if there was an opportunity to meet someone like him out in the quote-unquote real world. I think I would have gone home just kind of floated on their tell my wife about how excited I was for a potential new friend, but at the end of the night the trivia host came over to talk to Kristin Evan and something happened that left Chris feeling yet again a little inadequate Evan and the quiz Masters went on this like long riff about about Star Wars and then Star Trek and the death of Spock and how that had a relation to like men's feelings and and loss and and I'm sure I saw those movies, but I was just nodding like an idiot and it was at that moment where I thought oh, man.

1 (32m 1s):
I got nothing. Why would you need to to microwave a sea cucumber to remove bacteria? That would just kill the sea cucumber and what are you using the sea cucumber to kill to wash? Anyway after talking to Chris. Naturally I call Devon. How did it go? You know or we talked about the quiz part are we talking about the making a friend part just general Impressions? Yeah general questions. I think well, I definitely thought it was more fun than I was anticipating it to be. You know, I can definitely see myself hanging out with him. Again. This was confusing to me because the entire time that I talked to Evan, he just didn't say that much about Chris or how he himself felt about the date if he had any impressions of Chris.

1 (32m 48s):
He didn't let on the only thing even got passionate about and I should have expected. This was when I asked him to revisit the impromptu Star Trek conversation. He had with the host at the end of the night. I love Wrath of Khan and the friendship. Queen Kirk and Spock, like let's has been a thing that I've always loved in like science fiction pop culture Kirk represented the kind of brash impulsive seat of your pants mode of living that I never really pulled off and Spock didn't fit in and his emotions were not readily accessible to him and you know, his primary identifier was his intelligence, which is something I felt.

1 (33m 33s):
Deeply Kirk and Spock were opposites thrown together under extreme circumstances and multiple alien encounters who came to a level of mutual respect and admiration that spanned the Galaxy and several franchise reboots. They were friends for decades who are willing to die for each other by these standards Chris and Evans mandate was not a rousing success, but I'm more of a romantic comedy buff than a Star Trek fan and rom-coms for the most part are only about the Of relationships by those standards. You just have to establish that first connection. All you really need are two people who both kind of want to meet someone and a powerful external Force to bring them together like a best friend's impending wedding or forced road trip together or say a radio producer.

1 (34m 22s):
Just trying to satisfy his own curiosity. Would you like to hang out again? Yeah, I would I would I would love to hang out with them again. I thought he's a really cool guy. Would it be would youwould you Siddur like calling Chris at some point or hang out with him again. Yeah. Yeah, totally. I've always planning after I spoke to you. I didn't want to like muck up the process by like emailing him prematurely. But yeah, I'll I'll clean the follow-up and email him. It's been three weeks since their date Chris and Evan still haven't gotten together again, but Evan finally gave Chris's number and they've been emailing back and forth about plans. I think it'll happen.

1 (35m 3s):
How I do it probably. No drumming. So I'm like I said today's program is a rerun from four years ago as so I actually can tell you how things worked out with Chris and Evan and that is they never became friends. They made some plans. But then Chris move to Chicago Chris did say that after our story aired. He got dozens of emails from guys all over the country offering to be his friend. Coming up. You meet your hero and maybe they're a jerk.

1 (35m 46s):
Maybe they're just okay, maybe they're like wonderful. Why the third scenario might be the very very worst in a minute. Let's talk about Grady. Oh when I program continues. Support for This American Life comes from Capital One. Welcome to banking reimagined Capital One checking and savings accounts have no fees or minimums and a top-rated banking app that lets you manage your money anytime anywhere check on the account balance deposit checks pay bills and transfer money on the go. This is banking reimagined. What's in your wallet Capital One na member FDIC support for This American Life comes from better help online counseling better help offers licensed counselors who specialize in issues including depression and anxiety as well as relationships trauma anger and more you can connect privately with a counselor through text chat phone or video calls and you'll get help on your own time at your own pace and at an affordable rate for a special offer visit better help.com tal that's better help.com Tom Tal This American Life from Ira Glass Beach week in a program we choose a theme today is show The Perils of intimacy stories of what exactly can go wrong big and small when you get close to somebody we've arrived at three of our show at three hero today gone tomorrow.

1 (37m 13s):
It'll be so awkward meeting one of your Heroes. I swear there should be like a separate word for the phenomenon for the specific problem of like what in the world do you say or talk about that is going to live up to everything, you know and feel about them, Zona is a comedian and she faces problem herself with a man who in this story. She just refers to as hero. One of the first jobs I got out of college was assisting on a video being made by a big hero of mine. My friend got me the job because she you know, she thought this would be like a really fun thing for me to do. But I just thought this is the worst thing ever because I don't know if you can just tell by my energy, but I'm like really bad and meeting most people.

1 (38m 12s):
This was meeting one of my heroes. And I've had like so many awkward horrible interactions that at a certain point ages realized like maybe I shouldn't speak. I took the job and but I had a plan. I was like, I'm gonna ignore my hero, you know, he's not even going to know I'm there. So I get there and immediately realize that this is a very small shoot and they're only like 7 people there and one of the first people to introduce themselves to me was my hero.

1 (38m 60s):
He was like hi. I'm your hero. What's your name? And I just thought this is the worst day ever and it keeps happening because he's a really nice guy, you know, he'd passed by and you'd be like, are you having fun? How's it going? And I just wanted to say to him like, why are you This to me. But I made it through the day without speaking to him. They were so impressed with me.

1 (39m 40s):
The producer was like hey, we have another job. Why don't you drive your hero to and from another shoot? It's like an hour outside of La like I couldn't say. No. I wanted to say to this producer person. Like like I can't handle this like a date. Your to this man and I said, okay now all these like thoughts are going through my head and I was like, there's just like definitely going to be a moment where he shares something about himself and and I'm going to be like, I already know that I know everything about you.

1 (40m 33s):
So we're in the car and like it's really hard to avoid someone who's in your car. But a strange thing happened was that I I didn't feel as uncomfortable as I thought I'd feel because he was just being so open and nice they started sharing things and I told him that he was one of the reasons why I had started doing comedy and I was this aspiring comedian and it was So cool to work with him. And as I was dropping him off, he said I'd love to see you perform some time and like, you know, he's probably being polite but you got to imagine being younger.

1 (41m 22s):
It was just like the most magical exciting thing ever. And so like a week later I said about I went about composing just like the a perfect email to invite him to a show and the great thing about email is that like you don't have to send anything immediately, you know, you can draft things like can really take your time and make sure it's right and that's what I did. I made all these drafts, you know, I made sure all the info was there about the event and make sure like grammar was right and like the spacing and I and even made sure like I sounded like a fun person, you know, like I sounded you read in your life.

1 (42m 3s):
That girl's fun and I never heard back. But but you know, I it didn't even matter because I was like, he's just busy. He's like this busy guy and and also I just felt like I had made like this really good impression and that was five years ago and I kept doing comedy and I was on Gmail very recently. and something that I like to do, so I was kind of just nostalgic Lee looking at old emails I had sent it's just this weird thing I like to do because occasionally I'll see like a fun one and I'll forward it to a friend be like remember when I said that I was doing that and I scrolled way down and I stumbled upon the Email that I'd written to my hero five years ago.

1 (43m 12s):
Dear Hero set aside two tickets for you to next month's show on January 19th, if you can make it, if not, it's every month. So there's always a next time also the shoot turned out awesome. pretty good, right like that was sent at 12:01 and then underneath that I I found another one cent at 1201. It's within the same minute dear Hero set aside two tickets for you next one show on January 19th, if you can make it and then I added hope you had a wonderful holiday.

1 (44m 8s):
I found another one under his Bat. Send a 1202 I confuse saving with sending and my comedy hero received all my drafts. Dear Hero set aside two tickets for next month's show on January 19, you can make it and then there's this like huge gap and then I they I added also the shoe turn out awesome.

1 (44m 49s):
Yeah here here. Oh, And this one I 1204 just added the venue. It's a 1204 again. Now, I just added the time now. It's 12:05 and I just added parentheses doors at 7 p.m. You know just in case he wants to come early. when the doors open 12:05 same email 1206 same email and then this big time Gap happens now.

1 (45m 43s):
It's 12:21 and I say dear hero whole it's just H ol just a spelling error. Five I send it off. But of course in my style. I send it off twice. I can't believe I did that. If I had known about this, like I don't I don't know if I would be standing here in front of you tonight.

1 (46m 27s):
You know, it would have been too embarrassing to do anything in comedy ever after doing this sort of thing to my comedy hero. And I also don't think I would be here tonight because I would be in a Nuthouse just rocking back and forth saying also the shoe turned out awesome also the shoe turn out awesome shoe turned out awesome.

1 (47m 9s):
Thank you. Thank you so much. Tom Izzo know he's a comedian in Los Angeles. She has a web series on Comedy Central called girl Kyle don't want you. That's why I've been staying away from you at for break it down. So we understood today about the Perils of intimacy with this story that you tally up.

1 (47m 50s):
What is good. And what is bad about getting close to somebody this is a one of my favorite stories is by Julia Davis. It's red Forest by actor Matt Malloy wanting to listeners. The story does acknowledge that people sex he sitting there staring at a piece of paper in front of them. He's trying to break it down. He says I'm breaking it all down. The ticket was $600. And after that there was more for the hotel and food and so on for just 10 days say eighty dollars a day no more like $100 a day. And we made love say once a day on the average. That's a hundred dollars a shot. And each time it lasted maybe two or three hours.

1 (48m 32s):
So that would be anywhere from 33 to 50 dollars an hour, which is expensive though. Of course, that wasn't all that went on because we were together almost all day long. So I mean she would keep looking at me and every time she looked at me that was worth something and she smiled at me and didn't stop talking and singing something I said, she would sail into it a snatch for me. She would be gone from me little ways but smile. To and tell me jokes, and I loved it. But didn't exactly know what to do about it just smiled back at her and felt slow next to her just not quick enough. So she talked and touched me on the shoulder and the arm she kept touching and stayed close to me you're with each other all day long and it keeps happening the touches and smiles and it adds up it builds up and you know where you'll be that night you're talking and every now and then you think about it.

1 (49m 25s):
Now, you don't think you know, you just feel it is kind of a destination what's coming up after you leave wherever you are all evening and you're happy about it and you're planning. All not your head really somewhere inside your body are all through your body. It's all mounting up and coming together so that when you get in bed, you can't help it. It's a real performance made it all pours out, but slowly you go easy until you can't anymore or you hold back the whole time you hold back and touch the edges of everything edge around until you have to plunge in and finish it off and when you're finished you're too weak to stand but after a while you have to go to the bathroom and you stand your legs are trembling you hold onto the Warframes there's a little light coming in through the window.

1 (50m 8s):
You can see a way in and out, but you can't really see the bed. So it's really not a hundred dollars a shot because it goes on all day from the start when you wake up and feel her body next to you. You don't miss a thing. I'm not a thing of what's going on next to you or leg or arm or shoulder her face that good skin. I felt other good skin, but this skin is just the edge of something else. And you're going to start going I mean no matter how much you crawl over each other. It won't be enough and when your hunger dies down a little bit then you start to think about how much you love her and then that starts you off again in her face and you look over their face and you can't believe how you got there and how lucky and it's all still a surprise in the never stops.

1 (50m 53s):
I mean, I'm even after it's over it never stops being a surprise. It's more like you have a good 16 or 18 hours a day this going on even when you're not with her. It's still going on. I mean, it's good to be away from her because it's going to be so good to get back to her. You know, it's still there in you and you can't go off and look at some old Street or some old painting without feeling it in your body in a few things that happened the day before the don't mean much by themselves or wouldn't mean much if you weren't having this thing together, but you can't forget and it's all inside of you all the time. So it's more like say 16 into a hundred would be $6. An hour, which isn't too much. And then it really keeps going on while you're asleep.

1 (51m 33s):
Even though you're probably dream about something else. A building maybe I don't I kept dreaming every night almost about this building because I'd spend a lot of every morning in this Old Stone building and when I close my eyes, I would see these cool spaces and have this piece inside me. I would see the bricks of the floor and the stone arches and the space The Emptiness between like a kind of dark frame around what I could see beyond the garden and this base was like Stone to because of the coolness of it and the gray shadow that kind of luminous shade. Was glowing in the light of the sun falling Beyond The Arches and there's also this great height of the ceiling all this was in my mind all the time though.

1 (52m 15s):
I didn't know it until I close my eyes. I'm asleep and I'm not dreaming about her but she's lying next to me and I wake up enough times in the night to remember. She's there and notice say once she was lying on her back, but now she's curled around me. I look at her closed eyes. I want to kiss her eyelids. I want to feel that. Soft skin under my lips, but I don't want to disturb her. I don't want to see her frown as though in her sleep. She's forgotten who I am and feels that just something is bothering her. And so I just look at her and hold on to it all these times when I'm watching over her sleep and she's next to me and isn't away from me the way she will be later.

1 (52m 56s):
I want to stay awake all night just to go on feeling that but I can't I fall asleep again though. I'm sleeping lightly still trying to hold on to But it is an over one. It ends. I mean it goes on after it's all over she's still inside you like a sweet liqueur. He filled with her everything about her is kind of bled into you her voice her smell the way your body moves. It's all inside of you at least for a while after. Then you begin to lose it and I'm beginning to lose it. You're afraid of how weak you are that you can't get it all back into you again. And now the whole thing is going to be out of your body and it's more in your mind then in your body and the pictures come to you one by one and you look at them.

1 (53m 45s):
Some of them last longer than others you were together in this very white clean place a coffeehouse having breakfast together and a place is so white that against it you can see Clearly her blue eyes her smile the colors of her clothes, even the print of the newspaper. She's reading when she's not looking up at you the light brown and red and gold of her hair when she's got her head down reading the brown coffee. The brown rolls all against the white table in those white plates and silver urns and silver knives and spoons and against that quiet of the Sleepy people in that room sitting alone at their tables with just some chinking and clattering of spoons.

1 (54m 26s):
And cups and saucers and some hushed voices her voice now and then rising and falling. The pictures come to you and you have to hope they won't lose their life too fast and dry up though, you know, they will and that you also forget some of what happened because already you're turning up little things that you nearly forgot. We were in bed and she asked me do I seem fat to you and I was surprised because she didn't seem too worried about herself at all in that way. And I guess I was reading into it that she did worry about herself. So I answered what I was thinking and said stupidly that she had a very beautiful. Full body that our body was perfect and I really meant it as an answer, but she said kind of sharply that's not what I asked.

1 (55m 12s):
And so I had to try to answer her again exactly what she had asked. And once she lay over against me late at night and she started talking her breath in my ear and she just went on and on and talked faster and faster. She couldn't stop and I loved it. I just felt that all that life and her was running into me, too. I had so little life in me her life her fire was coming in to me in that hot breath in my ear and I just wanted to go on talking forever right there next to me and I would go on living like that. I would be able to go on living but without her. I don't know. Then you forget some of it all maybe most of it all almost all of it in the end.

1 (55m 53s):
And you work hard at remembering everything's now so he won't ever forget but you can kill it to even by thinking about it too much though. You can't help but thinking about it nearly all the time. And then when the pictures start to go you start asking some questions just little questions. That's it in your mind without any answers. Like why did she leave a light on when you came to bed one night, but it was off the next but she had it on the night after that and she had it off the last night why and another question little questions that nag at you like that and finally the pictures go and these dry little questions just sit there without any answers and you're left with this large heavy pain and you that you try to Numb by reading or You try to ease it by getting out in the public places where they'll be people around you but no matter how good you are pushing that pain away.

1 (56m 38s):
Just when you think you're going to be. All right for a little while that you're safe. You're kind of holding it off with all your strength and your staying in some bear little numb spot of ground. Then suddenly will all come back. You'll hear a noise maybe to cat crying or a baby something else like her cry, you hear it and make that connection in a part of you have no control over and that pain comes back so hard that you're afraid afraid of how you're going to All back into it again, and you wonder know you're terrified at how you're ever going to climb out of it. So it's not every hour of the day while it's happening. It's really for hours and hours every day after that four weeks though less and less. So that you could work out a ratio if you wanted maybe after six weeks and only thinking about an hour or so in the day altogether a few minutes here and there spread over or a few minutes here and there and a half an hour before you go to sleep or sometimes it all comes back and you stay awake half the night.

1 (57m 35s):
So when you add up all that. You've only spent maybe three dollars an hour on it. If you have to figure in the bad times, too, I don't know there weren't any bad times with her though. Maybe there was one bad time. When I told her I loved her I couldn't help it. This is the first time this had happened with her now. I was half falling in love with her or maybe completely if she'd let me but she couldn't or I couldn't completely because it was all going to be so short and other things too. And so I told her And I didn't know of any way to tell her first that she didn't have to feel that. This was a burden, you know that the fact that I loved her or that she didn't have to feel the same about me or say the same back that it was just that I had to tell her that's all because it was bursting inside me and saying it wouldn't even begin to take care of what I was feeling really I couldn't say anything of what I was feeling because there was so much words couldn't handle it and making love only made it worse because then I wanted words badly, but they were no good.

1 (58m 39s):
No good at all. But I told her anyway, I was lying on top of her and her hands were up by your head and my hands were on hers and our fingers were locked in there was a little light on her face from the window, but I couldn't see her and I was afraid to say it but I had to say it because I wanted her to know it was the last night. I had to tell her then I'd never have another chance and I just said before you go to sleep. I have to tell you before you go to sleep that I love you and immediately right away. After she said I love you too, and it sounded to me as if she didn't mean it a little flat but then it usually sounds flat when somebody says I love you too, because they're just saying it back even if they do mean it and the problem is that I'll never know if she meant it or maybe someday she'll tell me whether she meant it or not.

1 (59m 30s):
But there's there's no way to know now and I'm sorry I did that. It was a trap. I didn't mean to put her in I can see it was a trap because if she hadn't said anything at all, that would have hurt me too, you know as though Though she were taking something from me and just accepting it not giving anything back. So she really had to I mean, even if just to be kind he had to say it and I don't really know now if she meant it. another bad timer it wasn't exactly bad, but it wasn't easy. Either was when I had to leave the time was coming and I was beginning to tremble and feel empty. Nothing in the middle of me.

1 (1h 0m 10s):
Nothing inside nothing to hold me up on my legs and then it came everything was ready and I had to go so it was just a kiss a quick one as though we were afraid of what might happen after a kiss and she was almost Wildman as you reached up to a hook by the door and took an old shirt the green and blue shirt from the hook and put it in my arms for me to take away. The soft cloth was full of her smell. And we stood there close together looking at this piece of paper. She had in her hand and I didn't lose any of it. I was holding it tight that last minute or two because this was it we'd come to the end of it things always change.

1 (1h 0m 53s):
So this was really it over. Maybe it works out. All right, maybe you haven't lost for doing it. I don't know now really. I mean sometimes when you think of it you feel like a prince really feel just like a king and other times you're afraid you're afraid not not all the time, but now and then of what it's going to do to you. It's hard to know what to do with it now. Walking away. I looked back once and the door was still open. I could see her standing far back in the dark of the room. I could only really see her white face still looking out at me.

1 (1h 1m 36s):
And her white arms. I guess you get to a point where you look at that pain as if it were there in front of you three feet away lying in a box and open box in a window somewhere. It's hard and cold like a bar of metal. You just look at it there and say all right, I'll take it all by it. That's what it is. Because you know all about it before you even go into this thing, you know, the pain is part of the whole thing. And it isn't that we can say afterwards the pleasure was greater than the pain and that's why you do it again that is nothing to do with it. You can't measure it because the pain comes after and it lasts longer.

1 (1h 2m 16s):
So the question really is why doesn't the pain make you say I won't do it again. When the pain is so bad that you have to say that. But you don't. So I'm just thinking about it. How you can go in with six hundred dollars more like a thousand. And how you can come out with an old shirt. Matt Molloy reading Lydia Davis is story break it down. It was first published in her book of the same name. It's also in her collected Stories We edited slightly for radio. But he Davis his new book is volume of collected essays on writing and writers called essays one.

1 (1h 3m 34s):
Today's program was produced by wrapping semi and with help Nancy updating our production staff. Sorry Chase on Colonial drumming 7200 Yahoo! Walk Mickey make Jonathan and he Barr virus Smith and Matt Tierney editor for today's show is Joel level editorial help for today's show from Julie Snyder and on the baker research up from Chris trosset Allah and Michelle Harris production out from VA Parker additional production help for a rear end today by Noah. Guildenstone Nelson special. Thanks to Kevin Allison and the risk podcast for version of Rachel Rosenthal Story from beginning of the show first appeared. They are at risk. As show.com website This American Life dot-org This American Life is to give it a public radio stations by PRX the public radio exchange for This American Life comes from all birds as sustainable shoe brand all board's goal is to make products that do right by your feet and the planets learn more about the sustainable practices and find your pair at all birds.com.

1 (1h 4m 27s):
Thanks as always for freckles co-founder mystery mail it to you know, I want to try to talk to him about whether Daenerys Targaryen was going to end up on the iron throne with Jon Snow. Are they just misunderstood token? I don't fuckin like at all. Yeah. No. No, that's what always to wait for me and Ira Glass back next week with my stories at This American Life.