0 (0s):
Support for this American life comes from Squarespace. Squarespace is the all-in-one platform for building your brand and growing your business online. Stand out with a beautiful website, engage with your audience and sell anything. Your products, content you create. And even your time get started with a best-in-class website template and customize it to fit your needs. Stand out in any inbox with Squarespace, email campaigns and every Squarespace website and online store comes with a suite of integrated features and useful guides that help maximize prominence among search results had do squarespace.com/american for a free trial. And when you're ready to launch use offer code American to save 10% off your first purchase of a website or domain,

1 (38s):
Rebecca remembers exactly when she learned the astonishing truth. She was in second grade and ran into her best friend, Rachel at school one day.

2 (45s):
And she pulled me aside and said, you know, last night I, you know, I lost a tooth and I woke up while the tooth fairy was putting the money under my pillow. And guess who the tooth fairy was? She said, oh my God, who was it? I have to know. And she said, my dad, my dad is the tooth fairy. And I remember running home after school and telling my mom, mom, I know who the tooth fairy is and declaring it as if I had grown up that I knew who, who the tooth it was. And she said, oh, well, who is the tooth fairy? And I turned to her and I said, Rachel's dad is the tooth fairy.

2 (1m 29s):
Ronnie Lohfeld is the tooth fairy. And she said, I can't believe, you know, it's totally secret. You can't let anyone else know, but you're right. Ronnie is the tooth fairy. And you know, he works really hard and you know, it's a secret, so you can't let anyone else know he is the tooth fairy, but you can't let anyone else know. And from that day on Ronnie, Ronnie Lohfeld was tooth fairy. And all of my notes under my pillow were signed. Love Ronnie Lagerfeld.

1 (2m 2s):
Now in his day job, what did Ronnie Garberville do?

2 (2m 7s):
I think he did something in finance. He was either an accountant or a stockbroker. He worked next to a stop and shop in Massachusetts and Newton had dark hair, worse suit. And I definitely had images of his driving, his Volvo around the Boston area and delivering the tooth fairy treats. I remembering wondering what it was like for Rachel to know that her dad was the tooth fairy and definitely being a little envious that her dad had this special job and the special power and that he had this whole other interesting life where my dad just came home from work.

2 (2m 47s):
And that was it.

1 (2m 49s):
So when you would actually run into running Overfeld what was it like for you? How would you act?

2 (2m 56s):
I tried to act cool. I didn't want to, you know, it's like if you're starstruck, but you don't want them to know that you're star struck

1 (3m 1s):
Just like meeting a celebrity.

2 (3m 2s):
Exactly. You downplay it. You try not to mention it, but you definitely check them out twice and, and, you know, look at them when they walk away, you're like, oh my God, you're the tooth fairy,

1 (3m 13s):
But you knew enough to play.

2 (3m 14s):
Cool. I knew enough to play cool. I said, Hey, how you doing? You know, what's for dinner? How am I getting home tonight? Or my parents going to pick me up? If they called you

1 (3m 25s):
Did play a cool When interesting question and all this, why did both girls come to what seems like the least likely conclusion from the evidence in front of them, of a parent swapping money for a tooth under a pillow? Well, Alison Gopnik studies how children think. And she says, of course, it's logical for a seven-year-old to conclude that her own dad might be the tooth fairy

4 (3m 49s):
Children understand that their parents, for instance, they're powerful in all sorts of ways that make them very different from children. Now from a child's point of view, knowing where those powers begin and end is pretty tricky. I mean, think about all the things that your parents can do that you can't do. And think about the fact that there isn't any obvious explanation about why your father can use a visa card, for instance, which is something that you can't do the power to be a tooth fairy. Isn't all that much more impressive.

1 (4m 21s):
This is a certain kind of story that kids tell like the Ronnie Wyperfeld story, where they will get something going on around them, observe it carefully. Think about it logically how one thing connects to the next thing to the next, and then come to conclusions that are completely incorrect. Therapist alien, Goldman in Texas tells this story about a little girl on an airplane.

5 (4m 40s):
Then she was about four years old and her very first flight. And as the plane was airborne, she turned to the woman next to her and said, when do we get smaller? That had been her experience at airports, watching airplanes take off. They do get smaller.

1 (5m 3s):
The stories are like jokes. And they're also like poems. I think because there's this a high quality to them. Some connection is made between things, a surprising connection, a wrong connection, actually. Well, we at this American life love these stories. And so today we bring you a full hour of them from WBZ Chicago. It's this American life I'm IRA glass today on our program, kid logic or show in four acts, act one baby scientists with faulty data act two. Where what was in their youth? The story from Michael Shavonne act three, the gay man over to the Fetzer man sings act four. When small thoughts meet big brains today's program is rerun a good one.

1 (5m 46s):
Stay with us Equine baby scientists with faulty data. 50 years ago, psychologists and scientists believed that babies could not think at all that they were irrational and illogical, self centered, little balls of need and want. And what science has learned is that this is not true. The children are observing the world and thinking about it and coming to logical conclusions from the day they're born, when Alison Gopnik and two of her colleagues decided to summarize a lot of this research in a book, they called it the scientist in the crib, meaning the babies are like little scientists.

1 (6m 28s):
They argue that when a small baby sits in a high chair and drops a spoon onto the four over and over and over for mom or dad to pick up what the baby is doing essentially is running a little baby sized experiment

4 (6m 40s):
Because it turns out that babies are very interested in gravity and how gravity works. The fact that things full down and not up is not obvious to babies. And it turns out another thing they're very interested in is human beings and how they work. We are actually the lab rats. They're actually doing experiments on us to see how we tick. So when you play drop the spoon, you get two for the price of one, you get an experiment about gravity. You get a little physics tutorial and you get a psychology tutorial. You can see about how that person will do something over and over again.

1 (7m 17s):
Well, kids think with the same logic that adults use and apply that logic just as rigorously, there are certain things that they simply do not know and take a while to figure out up to six or seven years old. For instance, it's not exactly clear to anyone, what is imaginary and what is not, or if wishing for something can make it come true.

4 (7m 37s):
There's a wonderful experiment about this actually that Paul Harrison England did, where he got children to imagine that something was in a box. So he would say, okay, now here's this box. We're going to open it up. We're going to close it. Now let's imagine that there's a puppy in this box or else let's imagine that there's a monster in the box. And he asked the children, you know, is there really a monster in the box? Is there really a puppy in the box? They said, no, they were just imagining it.

1 (8m 5s):
Then the researcher would walk out of the room, leaving the box behind with the child. And then something funny would happen. The kids who were told to imagine a puppy in the box would go over and peek inside the box, just to check. And the kids who were told that there was a monster in the box, they would edge away from the box.

4 (8m 24s):
So they weren't going to take any chances just in case wishing actually could make monsters happen. They didn't want to take any chances about what was going on in that box. But by the time the children are six or seven, they like grownups. They've understood that. Just wishing for things isn't going to actually make them happen

1 (8m 45s):
When they're still small and inexperienced about what happens in the real world, children have to make logical inference is all the time based on the data that they do have here is how children responded. When our producer, Jonathan Goldstein asked them about the tooth fairy.

6 (9m 1s):
What do you think she does with all of these teeth that she's collecting?

7 (9m 5s):
Maybe she gives it to the people without teeth.

6 (9m 7s):
Like who

7 (9m 9s):
Old people,

6 (9m 10s):
What do you think she does with all these teeth?

7 (9m 13s):
Not really. I think she just likes to collect tees and make things out of them.

6 (9m 17s):
Like what kind of stuff?

7 (9m 19s):
Lots of stuff to house two 12 feet and a two stats.

6 (9m 28s):
How many teeth do you think it takes to make a tooth house?

7 (9m 31s):
A hundred, a hundred?

6 (9m 34s):
Why wouldn't she just make the house out of bricks? Like, like everyone else

7 (9m 38s):
'cause I don't because no one does doesn't have brick teeth.

1 (9m 52s):
The stories where kids take a perfectly logical premise and go through a series of perfectly logical deductions that lead to perfectly incorrect conclusions. It turns out that science does not have a name for these stories, which is surprising given how common they are and how they are recognized around the world for their sheer entertainment value here, we've collected a few more.

8 (10m 14s):
We lived in a duplex. The duplex has directly to the left and the right of us. We're aunts and uncles across the street from us all onto an uncle's. So there was no such thing as walking out and seeing the stranger. I just thought we all looked alike. We all had common ancestries. Well, when I became mobile, when I got my phone, when I got my first tricycle, I could go a little bit further. So I ventured down the street and I looked, and I saw the couple Sidney, these two people, but there were people that I had never seen before. I'd never seen anything like that because they were white people. And because I had never seen white people, I assumed that they were ghosts. So I waved like, you know, I wonder if I wave, you know, what kind of people are they, what did they do?

8 (10m 56s):
Did they talk to I waved? And I remember hearing the man going, Wow, that's must be the way they talk. It was like a scientific discovery. I discovered the first coast people and they talked to me, they, I communicated, I waved, they waved. I said, hello. And they said, hello in their language.

9 (11m 28s):
Well, it all began at Christmas two years ago when my daughter was four years old. And it was the first time that she had ever asked about what, what, what did this holiday mean? And so I, I explained to her that this was the celebrating the birth of, of Jesus. And she wanted to know more about that. And we went out and bought a kids' Bible and have these readings at night. She loved them, wanted to know everything about Jesus. So we read a lot about his birth and about his teaching. And she would ask constantly what that, what that phrase was.

9 (12m 9s):
And I would explain to her that it was do unto others as you would have them do unto you. And we would talk about those old words and what that all meant, you know? And then one day we were driving past a big church and out front was an enormous crucifix. She said, who is that? And I guess I'd never really told that part of the story. So I had this sort of, yeah. Oh, well, that's that's Jesus. And I forgot to say the ending. Yeah, well, you know, he, he ran a foul of the Roman government. You know, this message that he had was so radical and unnerving to the prevailing authorities at the time that they had to kill him.

9 (12m 52s):
They, they came to the conclusion that he would have to die. That message was too troublesome. There was about a month later after that Christmas, we'd gone through the whole, whole story of what Christmas meant. And, and it was mid January and her preschool celebrates the same holidays as the local schools. So Martin Luther king day was off. So I knocked off work that day and I decided we'd play and I'd take her out to lunch. And we were sitting in there and right on the table where we happen to plop down was the art section of the local newspaper.

9 (13m 39s):
And their biggest life was a huge drawing by, by like a 10 year old kid and the local schools of Martin Luther king. And she said, who's that? And I said, well, as it happens, that's Martin Luther king. And he's why you're not in school today. So we were celebrating his, his birthday. This is the day we celebrate his life. And she said, so who was he? I said, well, he was a, he was a preacher. And she looks up at me and goes for Jesus. And I said, yeah, you actually, he was, but, but there was, there was another thing that he was really famous for, which is that he had a message, you know, and you're trying to say this to a four year old.

9 (14m 23s):
It's very, no, this is the first time they ever hear anything. So you're just very careful about how you phrase everything. So, so I said, you know, well, yeah, he, he was a preacher and he, he had a message and she said, what was his message? I said, well, he said that you should treat everybody the same, no matter what they look like. And she thought about that for a minute. And she said, well, that's what Jesus said. I said, yeah, I guess it is, you know, I never thought of it that way, but yeah. And that is sort of like do unto others as you would have them do unto you.

9 (15m 5s):
And she thought for a minute and looked up at me and said That they kill him too.

1 (15m 24s):
The two werewolves in their youth. And this act, we have this example of kids thinking like kids, it's an excerpt of a short story by Michael Shavonne.

10 (15m 34s):
I had known him as a bulldozer, as a samurai, as an Android program to kill as plastic man and titanium man. And matter eater. Lad has a Buick Electra as a Peterbilt truck. And even for a week as the Mackinaw bridge, but it was as a werewolf that Timothy Stokes finally went too far. I wasn't there when it happened. I was down in the ravine at the edge of the school yard, founding a capital for an empire of ants. I just begun to describe to myself and to the ants, the complicated rights, sacred to the God whose worship I was imposing on them. When I heard the first screens from the playground, The girls screamed at Timothy the same way.

10 (16m 18s):
Every time he came after them in unison and with a trill that sounded almost like delight as if they were watching the family cat truck passed with something bloody and its jobs. I scrambled up the side of the ravine and emerged as Timothy shoulders, hunched, arms outstretched, growled, realistically, and declared that he was hungry for the throats of puny humans. Timothy said this or something like it. Every time he turned into a werewolf and I would not have been too concerned if in the course of his last transformation, he hadn't actually gone and bitten Virginia bees on the neck. It was common knowledge around school that Virginia's parents had since written a letter to the principal.

10 (16m 60s):
And the next time Timothy Stokes hurt somebody. He was going to be expelled. Timothy was in our teacher, Mrs. Gladfelter his words. One strike away from an out. And there was a widespread if unarticulated hope among his classmates, their parents, and all of the teachers at Copeland fork elementary, that one day soon, he would provide the authorities with the excuse they needed to pack them off to special school. I stood there a while above my little city, watching Timothy pursue a snarling lupine course along the hopscotch crosses. I knew that someone ought to do something to calm him down, but I was the only one in our school who could have any reason to want to save Timothy Stokes from expulsion.

10 (17m 48s):
And I hated him with all my heart. I've been cursed for 300 years. He declaimed, he was wearing his standard uniform of white dungarees and a plain white undershirt, even though it was a chilly afternoon in October and all the rest of us had long since been bundled up for autumn in corduroy and down, I've encouraged to stock the night through all eternity. He went on, I have been searching for prey as lovely as you, he lunged toward the nearest wall of the cage of girls around him.

10 (18m 30s):
The girls peeled away from him as those sprayed with a hose, bump, shoulders, clung, shrieking to each other's sleeves. Some of them were seeing the song we sang about Timothy Stokes, Timothy Stokes, Timothy Stokes. You're going to the home for crazy folks. And the one singing the loudest was Virginia pees herself in her furry black coat and her bright red tights, Virginia had blonde hair. And she was the only girl in the fifth grade with pierced ears and painted fingernails. And Timothy Stokes was in love with there. I knew this because the Stokes has lived next door to us. And I was privy to all kinds of secrets about Timothy that had absolutely no desire to know.

10 (19m 13s):
I forbade myself, but then almost religious severity to show Timothy any kindness or regard. I would never let him sit beside me at lunch or in class. And if he tried to talk to me on the playground, I ignored him. It was bad enough that I had to live next door to him. It was toward Virginia, that Timothy now advanced a rattling growl in his throat. She drew back behind her girlfriends and they're screaming. Now grew less melodious, less purely formal Timothy crouched down on all fours. He rolled his wild white eyes and took a last look around him. That was when he saw me halfway across the yellow distance of the soccer field.

10 (19m 56s):
He was looking at me. I thought as though he hoped I might have something I wanted to tell him instantly, I dropped flat on my belly, my heart pounding the way it did when I was spotted, trying to spy on a baseball game or a birthday party. I slid down into the ravine backward. At first, I could hear the girls shouting for Mrs. Gladfelter. And then I heard Mrs. Gladfelter herself sounding very angry and the bell sounded the end of recess and everything got very quiet, but I just stayed there in the ravine. I told myself that I didn't feel sorry at all for stupid old Timothy Stokes. But then I would remember the confused look in his eyes. As I had abandoned him to his fate, to all the unimaginable things that would be done to him in the fabulous corridors of the special school.

10 (20m 45s):
I kept recalling something that I had heard Timothy's mother say to mine just a couple of days earlier. You know, Althea Stokes had told my mother and that big, sad donkey voice of hers, your little Paul is Timothy's only friend. I decided to spend the afternoon in the ravine. The sun started down behind the embankment and the moon rising early emerged from the rooftops of the houses. Somebody was putting up in front of the school. The moon I noticed it was not quite full. I didn't hear the scrape of footsteps until they were just above my head.

10 (21m 28s):
Paul said, Mrs. Gladfelter leaning over the lip of the ravine hands against her thighs. Paul Covelo what on earth are you doing out here? Nothing. I said, I didn't hear the bell, Paul. She said, now listen to me, Paul, I need your help with what? I didn't think she looked angry, but her face was upside down. And it was hard to tell with Timothy Paul, I guess he's just very wound up right now. He's pretending he's a werewolf today. And even though that's fine and we all know how Timothy is. Sometimes we have serious things to discuss with him and we'd like him to stop pretending for just a little while. What if he isn't pretending? I said, what if he really is a werewolf?

10 (22m 10s):
Maybe he is Paul. But if you would just come inside and talk to him for a little bit, I think we might be able to persuade him to change back into Timothy. You're his friend, Paul. I asked him if he'd like to talk to you. And he said, yes, I'm not as friend Mrs. Gladfelter. I swear to God, I can't do anything. Paul Timothy is in trouble. He needs your help. And I need your help too. Now, if you come right this minute and get up out of that dirt, then I'll forget that you didn't come in from recess. If you don't come back inside, I'll have to speak to your mother. She held out her hand. Now, come on, please. So I took her hand and let her pull me out of the ravine and across the deserted playground, aware that in doing so, I was merely proving the unspoken corollary that my mother had left hanging the other morning and the air between her.

10 (22m 60s):
And this is Stokes. There was a song about me too. I'm afraid a popular little number that went what's that smell Paul Covello. He's a big fat hippo jello. He's a Snoop. He smells like poop. He smells like tomato beef, alphabet soup, Timothy Stokes. I knew as I followed Mrs. Gladfelter down the long silent hallway to the office, hating him more and more with each step was my only friend. Timothy was sitting in a corner of the office, trapped in an orange vinyl armchair.

10 (23m 41s):
There was a Roman numeral three scratched into his left cheek and his white shirt and trousers were patterned with a camouflage of grass and dirt and asphalt. Well, now Timothy, this is Gladfelter took me by the shoulders and maneuvered me around her. Look who I found. Hey Timothy. I said, Timothy, didn't look up, Mrs. Gladfelter gave me a gentle push toward him in the small of my back. Why don't you sit down, Paul? No, I didn't want to be left alone with Timothy. Not because I was afraid of him, but because I was afraid that somebody would come into the office and see us sitting there. Two matching rejects and matching orange chairs.

10 (24m 23s):
That's enough. Now Paul said Mr. Buder boss, the principal is friendly. Smile looking more false than usual. Sit down. It's all right, said, Mrs. Gladfelter you see what you can do about helping Timothy turned back into Timothy. We're just going to give you a little privacy. She followed Mr. Buder bot into his office and then poked her head back around the door. I'm going to leave this door open in case you need us. All right. There were three chairs next to Timothy's. I took the farthest and showed him my back so that anyone passing by the windows of the office would not be able to conclude that he and I were engaged in any sort of conversation at all.

10 (25m 6s):
Are you expelled? I said there was no way ply, are you Timothy? Again? He said nothing and I couldn't stop myself from turning around to look at him. Timothy, are you expelled? I'm not Timothy professor said Timothy gravely, but not without a certain air of satisfaction. I'm afraid your precious antidote didn't work. Come on Timothy. I said, cut it out. The moon's not even full today. Now he turned toward me.

11 (25m 40s):
Where, where are you?

10 (25m 41s):
He said I was looking for you. I was in the ditch With the ants. I nodded, I heard you talking to them before. So, so are you at man? No dummy. Why not? Because I'm not anybody. You're not anybody. Either. We fell silent for awhile. Just sat there, not looking at each other, taking it. The legs of our chairs. I could hear Mrs. Gladfelter and Mr. <inaudible> talking softly in his office. Mr. Buder, Bob called her Elizabeth the telephone ring, a light flashed twice on the secretary's phone, then held steady.

10 (26m 25s):
Thanks for calling back. Dr. Schachter. I heard Mr. Buder boss say yes, I'm afraid. So I went to see Dr. Schachter. A couple of times it said he had micro knots and the fem bots. He has stretch Armstrong to said, Timothy, I know. Why did you go see him? Timothy said, did your mother make you? Yeah. I said, how come? I don't know. She said I was having problems with my anger. I don't know. I guess I was mad about my dad and things. He had to go to jail. Timothy said your dad just for one night, how come he had too much to drink?

10 (27m 10s):
I said, did you visit him in jail? Timothy said, no stupid God, you belong in special school, Timothy. I hope they make you eat special food and wear a special helmet or something. I heard the distance slam of the school's front door and then a pair of hard shoes knocking along the hall. Here comes your mother. I said, What kind of special helmet said, Timothy Man. Where's that helmet?

10 (27m 50s):
Mrs. Stokes entered the office. She was a tall, thin woman, much older than my mother with long gray hair and red veiny hands. Every morning. She made Timothy pancakes for his breakfast, which sounded okay until you found out that she put things in them like carrots and leftover pieces of corn. Oh, hello, Paul. She said in her ER, voice, Mrs. Stokes said, Mrs. Gladfelter coming out of the principal's office. It's been kind of a long afternoon for Timothy. I'm afraid. How is Virginia said Mrs. Stokes? She still hadn't looked at Timothy. Oh, she'll be fine.

10 (28m 30s):
Mr. Buder boss said just a little shaken up. We sent her home early. Of course he added her parents are going to want to speak to you. Of course said, Mrs. Stokes, I'm ready to do whatever you think would be best for Timothy. I'm not. Timothy said Timothy, oh, please Timmy. Stop this nonsense for once I'm cursed. He leaned over and brought his face very close to mine. Tell them about the curse professor. I looked at Timothy and for the first time saw that a thin dark down of wolfish hair had grown upon his cheek.

10 (29m 11s):
Then I looked at Mr. Buder BA and found that he was watching me with an air of earnest expectancy. As we honestly thought there might be an eternal black magical curse on Timothy. And it was more than willing to listen to anything. I might have to say on the subject. I shrugged, are you going to make him go to special school? I said, all right, Paul, thank you said Mrs. Gladfelter you may go back to class now. See you later. Timothy. I said he didn't answer me. He had started to growl again. As I followed the secretary out of the office, I looked back and saw Mr. Buder bond. Mrs. Gladfelter poor old Mrs.

10 (29m 51s):
Stokes, standing in a hopeless circle around Timothy. I thought for a second. And then I turned back toward them and raised an imaginary rifle to my shoulder. This is a dark gun. I announced Everyone looked at me, but I was talking to Timothy. Now. I was almost, but not quite embarrassed. It's filled with darts of my special antidote and I made it stronger than it used to be in. It's going to work this time. And also there's a tranquilizer mixed in Timothy, looked up and bared his teeth at me.

10 (30m 32s):
And I took aim right between his eyes Jerked my hands twice. And when Timothy's head snapped back and his eyelids fluttered, he shook himself all over. He swallowed once and he held his hands out before him, as if wondering at their hairless pallor, It seems to have worked. He said his voice cool. And to reasonable and fine, Anyone could see he was still playing his endless game. But all the grownups Mr. <inaudible> in particular looked very pleased with both of us. Thank you very much, Paul. He said, I'm not Paul.

10 (31m 15s):
I said, Everybody laughed. But Timothy Stokes,

1 (31m 26s):
Michael Shavonne, reading an excerpt from his short story werewolves in their youth. You can find it in the collection of short stories with the same name coming up, kids talking kid talk adults, not understanding, but you will. As our special kids say, the darndest things edition of our program continues in a minute from Chicago public radio. When our program continues

0 (31m 48s):
Support for this American life comes from ZipRecruiter. If you're hiring, you know, it can feel like looking for a needle in a haystack. You just hope the right candidate comes along, but not. When you use ZipRecruiter ZipRecruiter's technology finds qualified candidates for you and then actively invites them to apply. In fact, four out of five employers who post on ZipRecruiter, get a qualified candidate within the first day. Try it free today at ziprecruiter.com/t a L that's ziprecruiter.com/tal ZipRecruiter. The smartest way to hire,

12 (32m 22s):
Hey there this American life listeners, I'm Wesley Morris. I'm a culture writer at the New York times. And I co-host a podcast called still processing This season. I invited some of my favorite writers and critics to come talk to me about the culture that us, the changing ways we consume it and why Keanu Reeves is basically a culture unto himself. You can listen to still processing wherever you get your podcasts,

1 (32m 55s):
This American life and Myra glass each week on a program. Of course we choose some theme, bring a different kinds of stories on that theme today's program, kid logic. We wanted an hour filled with stories in which kids employ kid thinking, especially the kid thinking that is perfectly logical, but completely wrong-headed. And we've arrived at act three of our program at three, the gay man over to the Fetzer man, sings a little kids, talk about a crush or love, or they're talking about more or less the same thing that adults mean by those words or how we check, which remembers how he thought about love in grade school. He wanted girls to like him, but they never seem to hear he is

13 (33m 35s):
Looking back on it. I think part of the problem was how I thought about love as a kid. I had a few ideas about how you get someone to love you that in retrospect, when particularly helpful to me first, I thought that if they can see me sleeping, they would immediately fall for me. When I went to sleep each night, I would consciously try to sleep in a cute way. Just in case the girls are like would peep on me and rolled into a fetal ball, like a kitten and scrunch my head into my pillow hand under my head. I imagined all the popular girls in 10th and cruelly pranking me, but a ladder in Klamath, my bedroom window, but instead of painting fatso or whatever on my window was planned, the collective hearts would melt as they saw me sleeping like a babe, an angel buried snugly under my blankets, I guess was some crossover of a kid's knowledge of what wasn't doing to adults applied to romance.

13 (34m 29s):
My second theory was that they'd fall in love with me. If they can see me reading aloud. This conclusion came out of my experience with nieces and nephews would fawn all over me. When I would read to them by age six, I was already an uncle and I felt the slept me a certain maturity. Often at recess time, I'd go to the back of the classroom and read from a selection of kids' books. All the kids would gather around in a circle and I'd pour through books like Percy, the rose eating donkey, effecting the voices of the different characters and speaking with a preacher, sweaty charisma. I'm not sure why, but everyone in my class seemed to love the way hammed it up. The only problem with this was the girls in class ended up treating me like their uncle. They call me uncle Howie and talk to me and baby talk.

13 (35m 10s):
We'd missed all Bianca Howie. So on. Don't get me wrong. I love the attention, but I wanted love, not love So I had all these ideas about love and of all the girls. I knew my theorist or most intensely targeted at one girl, the most popular girl in school, Karen, she became my most serious crush. I carried a torch for Karen from grade one to grade six, though. Karen didn't seem to like me much. One thing I've learned about love on TV was that if one was sincere love and break all boundaries, I believe that they would come a moment where I'd speak the words. I love you to Karen with such tenderness and tears, that it would break her heart and she would cry to confess her love.

13 (35m 56s):
I would allow one brave tear to travel down my cheek.

14 (36m 10s):
It is very, very adorable.

13 (36m 14s):
Now, years later, I'm friends with Karen actual friends with both her and her husband Allen. I even worked for him for a while. Ken and I have talked before about our elementary school days. Usually steering the conversation towards how mean she was to me, but I've never really spoken to her about puppy love. I wanted to know what you remembered, whether she knew I even had a crush on her at all. So who are your interests? We'll go. We'll go year by year.

14 (36m 39s):
Keith definitely club interest barrier seller. The big one, the big one,

13 (36m 47s):
One realtor.

14 (36m 48s):
Hey yes, yes, yes.

13 (36m 51s):
Notice who she doesn't mention, even though it was so far in the past, you would have asked me the question is still such an awkward thing to talk about. When I finally did tell her about how I felt about her. When we were kids, I sort of mumbled my way through it. Mini backpedaling all over the place. I even forgot to actually point the mic at her. When I was in the elementary school. You were like a big crush. You see?

14 (37m 13s):
No that I thought it was just responsible for tournament. You realize that there was a crash and walk maybe at the time I knew, but I had no clue actually that you liked me. When I think back on it. Now

13 (37m 33s):
One time in the field, Keith told me at the top of you, like he said, if you tackle her, she'll like you, and then you'll be popular. This is the thing funny. So the story goes,

14 (37m 42s):
That's very good advice. I think

13 (37m 44s):
It's very bad. Basically what happened was I was standing off to the sidelines. I wasn't, I wasn't often picked to play. This was like a coed game and seemed like very fun. And Keith said, I'm going to feel carrying the ball. And he goes, you know, when you compare to this article, you tackle her Holly tackle her, tackle her heart and you'll be popular. And then eminent, like, you know, I'm like, I was like, okay, I'm going to do it. You know? And I remember like, you were like kind of running, like the sun is shining off and your hair's bouncing and you caught the ball. And I remember, I just, I didn't know what came over me. I can just remember thinking like, that's what I had to do was I had attack you. I tackled you really hard. Like you're on the grand new hall. And you're like, no, any kind of logic would dictate it.

13 (38m 25s):
That's not the way to get the go your life. Right.

14 (38m 27s):
But it'd been a lot of times the way young kids react or show affection is through physical. Like, like I was telling you before that we, you know, I wrestled with Barry because you just want to be close.

13 (38m 40s):
This is not how she felt about it at the time, because I felt the harder I tackled her. The more popular I'd be. I took it down. Like it was prison football. The game came to an immediate end. Everyone's circling. Karen's riding body, the football near her, like totally still. She was holding her leg, looking up at me saying, you TBA lard, you broke my leg. Karen doesn't remember any of this. She doesn't remember how she then jumped up, got four or five of her girlfriends in the huddle. And miraculously choreographed, an impromptu kicking chorus line of fatso men to the tune of the village. People's macho man, fatso, fatso, man. I would not like to be a fatso man. Fatso, fatso, man.

13 (39m 22s):
I wouldn't like to be a fatso. And at that point they all threw their hands up in the air and unison. I remember it so perfectly. But then after a while it was my crush. She had no recollection of the time. The school photographer called her Daisy duke and then turned around and called me boss hog. Well, the fitness day that I'd beat her in the chariots of fire style race. She didn't even remember the biggest story of the mall or sixth grade graduation dance. Now the last answer was stairway to heaven. Right now I went to the dance at the end with you. But I couldn't because as I was walking, a line of people walked by and blocked me.

13 (40m 4s):
And then it was like a split second. But then you were in the arms of a grade seven.

14 (40m 10s):
Yeah. They

13 (40m 11s):
Crashed our grade six graduation dance. He was talented and he had longish hair and he came through the back door of the gym. They don't remember the last dance. No that you kiss this gentlemen,

14 (40m 26s):
Did I like a Peck or make at kiss?

13 (40m 30s):
I

14 (40m 30s):
Don't think I was making edit angry.

13 (40m 32s):
Nope. By adults standards. It was a Peck. I'd say by grade six standards, you got lady It turns out the can remembered exactly one story about me.

14 (40m 51s):
Well, my most vivid memory of you is sitting in class and the teacher asking us to pull out our homework and you opening up your desk and the paper kind of overflowing out of that desk. And you're rummaging frantically through the desk, trying to find what homework we were asked to take out and not being able to find it. And our teacher walking up to your desk and everyone knowing what was coming, because it probably happened two days before. And the teacher just lacing into you and dumping the contents desk on the floor.

13 (41m 32s):
I mean, does, when that happened, like, did I seem cool? Like a bad boy?

14 (41m 37s):
No, everyone's pumped very, very sad for you.

13 (41m 49s):
More than anything I wanted count to notice me, but not in that way. I think the problem with my theories was that I expected her to fall for me the same way I felt for her that she would see me from afar reading to our classmates sleeping like a little prince. I thought that's what it took for someone to follow them up. I went to her to think that this was the real me. I wanted to think it was the real me. And the truth of it was that the real real me was getting screamed at and having his desk spilled on, on the ground each day, Is awakened level grilling, grade six that you'll never have.

13 (42m 29s):
Again, there's something about kids or at least the way I was as a kid that is purely romantic in the truest love solitary sense of the word only a year or two later. My theories in the ways of love. It changed drastically by seventh grade. I had some spin the bottle sessions under my belt, and I had concluded that instead of dreaming about a true love, I couldn't have, I should get a little bit more pragmatic about the whole thing. One night after deciding I wanted to have a real girlfriend, I called up my identical twin sisters in life, Darlene and Elizabeth Darlene answered. I told her that I liked her and asked her if she'd like to officially go out with me. She kindly told me that she only liked me as a friend, but she was flattered.

13 (43m 11s):
No problem. I said it was Elizabeth home. She passed me over to her twin, who I made the same offer to. And Elizabeth said, sure. And that was it. That's what twins was the difference. I figured we went up for two whole months. It was great.

1 (43m 32s):
Howie. Jacqueline's he's the creator writer and artist behind Howie action comics and other books from conundrum precedent. At four when small thoughts meet big brains. Okay? So all this hour we've been talking about kid logic and you know, sometimes the incorrect logic of childhood does not get corrected during childhood. It does not get corrected until much, much later when childhood is long over Alex Blumberg explains

15 (44m 8s):
I can reconstruct the events that led me to one of the most embarrassing conversations of my adult life. The chain starts back when I was 11 or 12. And I first heard the term Nielsen family. I was probably listening to some adults talk and from their conversation, I gathered that networks consulted Nielsen families to find out how popular a television show was. But that didn't make sense. Why would they only ask people named Nielsen? Which shows they liked? I started thinking, I knew that when they figured things like this app, they didn't ask everybody. They just, that's a small percentage of people. And then extrapolated, I think I figured they'd done some research and found that the name Nielsen, because it was a common name maybe, and it seemed to cut across class and economic lines actually came pretty close to a representative sample.

15 (44m 50s):
I knew this wasn't the way they measured public opinion now, but it seemed like the Nielsen surveys had been around for a while. And I figured they were just a hold over from a more primitive, less statistically rigorous time. After that, I really didn't think about it again. Or if I did, it was only with a mild curiosity. I wonder why TV still does it that way? Fast forward 20 years, I was talking with a friend of mine who was telling me about her friend. Who'd been selected to be a Nielsen family. And I said to her, isn't it weird that they're all named Nielsen? My friend looked at me for what seemed like a long time somewhere during her very long pause because of the very long pause. In fact, I realized, of course they're not all named Nielsen.

15 (45m 30s):
That makes no sense at all. At the time of this conversation, I was 34 years old and I couldn't believe I'd gotten this far without ever stopping to think it through made me wonder what else I'd missed. And if this has ever happened to anyone besides me,

16 (45m 43s):
When I was a kid and I would see the school crossing signs and has a picture of the little kids walking, and then I would say school X, Inc. And I thought that the X-Wing was the word and I pronounced it zinc.

15 (46m 3s):
It turns out I'm not alone. I've been talking to people about this for weeks, and there's a lot of us out there like me and this woman, Jody mace carting around our childhood beliefs. Well into adulthood. Jodie thought there were lots of zings deer, zings railroads, things that makes sense.

16 (46m 19s):
Well, so my twenties and I was walking into work and about 10 geese walked in front of me on the sidewalk. And so I just turned to my coworker and casually said, it looks like they should have a zing sign there for the geese, Those sort of a long awkward silence. And I thought that he was thinking, you know, that really is a good idea, but instead he was, he finally said, you know, Zing is in a word

15 (47m 4s):
And talking to people, I found out that a lot of these lingering misconceptions involve mispronunciation and often the mispronunciation survives into adulthood because the mistake just sounds better or it makes more sense.

16 (47m 14s):
It should be a word and it should be zinc. You know, you don't want a kid to walk slowly across the crossing. If he's smart, he's gonna Zang

15 (47m 28s):
Consider the word. I talked to three people, including my own father who used to pronounce it muzzled all three believed it was the past tense of a non-existent verb Mizel, which means to deceive or to mislead. There's another guy I spoke to who thought well into his early twenties, that the word case idea was Spanish for what's the deal. Most of the common childhood myths like the babies come from storks get corrected sooner or later. They're not obscure enough to sneak into adulthood unscrutinised but occasionally even a very popular childhood myth can make it through like unicorns.

17 (48m 8s):
You know, in my head, a unicorn wasn't really any different than a zebra.

15 (48m 12s):
This is Christie Krueger.

17 (48m 14s):
I mean, in terms of believability, I think the unicorn's really ahead of the dinosaur. Well, I mean, when you think about a dinosaur, it's like from a kid's perspective, a dinosaur is like these really large, you know, monstrous animals, roaming the earth. And then you have a unicorn, which is basically just a horse with a horn.

15 (48m 42s):
As Christie Kruger grew up. She says that if she ever thought about unicorns, they are on a grassy plane, somewhere in Africa, drinking from a watering hole with the wildebeest and the Impala. And then one night she found herself in a conversation at a party.

17 (48m 54s):
It was about a group of five to seven people kind of standing around the keg, just talking. And somehow a discussion of endangered species came up in which I posed the question is the unicorn endangered or extinct. And basically there was a Big gap of silence

15 (49m 21s):
As he might be gathering at some point and all these stories, you come to a big gap of silence

17 (49m 26s):
And then everybody laughed. And then that laughter was followed by more silence. When they realized I wasn't laughing. And I was like, yeah, I, oh God unicorns. Aren't real. Oh no.

15 (49m 52s):
Sometimes the ridiculous belief will survive into adulthood. And it's our parents who were to blame. Robin didn't think there was anything strange about the way she was raised. She lived together with her sister and her parents in a nice house in the suburbs. She went to school like the other kids watch TV and did her homework. And she ate the exact same thing for dinner. Every night of her life, big chicken.

18 (50m 11s):
It was like Monday chicken, Tuesday, chicken, Wednesday, chicken, Thursday, Friday, Saturday, Sunday, chicken, chicken, chicken, chicken, chicken, every night of my life until I left for college. At the end of like the first week of college, you know, when everyone's desperately trying to fit in. And everyone's, you know, it's important that you act cool and sophisticated and whatever everyone begins complaining about the food that we're being served. What was the hard stuff in the sloppy, Joe? You know, what was, what was that mystery meat?

18 (50m 53s):
Like? What animal did it come from? And I'm, I'm looking at these people. Like they are crazy. Like I was like the variety we are getting here every night, every night, there's a different meal. I mean, one night it's one night is Mac and cheese. One night it's mystery meat. One night it's sloppy Joe, one night at seven. I was like, how, how can you create it? I mean, it's a Testament to what great chefs. They must be that they can make a different meal every single night of the week. And they just kind of, they kind of stared and they're like, what? And I'm like, what, what What's running through my head is, wait a minute.

18 (51m 37s):
These people are implying that they had variation in their meal plan for their entire life. Mine it's mind bending. I mean, I don't care what I learned throughout college. This is the revelation that has stuck with me. This is what I've learned. Like all of a sudden, like, holy God,

15 (51m 58s):
When Robin came home for Thanksgiving, that year, you confronted her mother with the startling fact that everyone else ate things. Besides chicken growing up, her mother just shrugged her shoulders and said he liked chicken. Robin had to concede the point. Even when they'd gone out to restaurants, Robin odor chicken, they all had Here's. One more. When Harriet Lerner was a girl, her family was going through some lean years. There were two kids, the house needed repairs. There wasn't much money for holiday gifts. Harriet was seven and she wanted a bike. Her sister, Susan was 12.

15 (52m 39s):
She wanted to set up encyclopedias. But when they came downstairs on Christmas morning, there were only two small boxes waiting for them.

19 (52m 46s):
What was inside them. And we both had exactly the same gift where these real ugly metal tissue holders painted black with these corny red and yellow roses. They were painted with these cheesy looking red and yellow roses. And I looked at my tissue box and I started to cry. And I looked at my big sister, Susan, and I thought, of course, she was gonna cry too. And she looked like maybe she was going to cry, but then she sort of put on a big smile.

19 (53m 28s):
And then she told me that the boxes were painted by trained monkeys.

15 (53m 37s):
The box became heritage prize possession. She kept it on display in her room through elementary school, through high school. Friends asked her about it, she'd say, oh yeah, it was painted by trained monkeys. Nobody ever challenged her on it, maybe because she believed in herself so completely. And then one day she was home from college back in the house where she grew up

19 (53m 56s):
And I'm going through some papers or maybe I was sneaky, you know, snooping through Susan's papers and I've found a composition and it had her name on it. And she had written it in high school and it was called the tissue box story. So I sat down on the floor of Susan's bedroom to read this composition. And Susan told the story just as I told it, except that she wrote how she felt when she saw me crying and how she then looked at my parents and saw that my mother was about to cry too.

19 (54m 36s):
And how she looked at the tissue boxes. And then she remembered that my father had a friend who made them and she knew how much my parents hated taking charity. And suddenly, even though she was about to cry, she forced herself to smile. And she pretended those boxes were painted by trained monkeys. And then, and you know, of course, I didn't know any of this, but the funny thing she wrote in her composition is that she just rushed upstairs and started crying all over her pillow.

19 (55m 21s):
And she wasn't really sad about the gift really is what she said in the composition. She wasn't sure why she was crying, except that it was sort of like she had volunteered to be a grownup before she was even ready for it.

3 (55m 41s):
Yeah.

19 (55m 45s):
Up until that moment, I had never thought to question my sister's story. I had never subjected it to the scrutiny of a grownup mind. I mean, I was 20. I, I don't know I had this tissue box that was painted by train monkeys. And then it wasn't painted by train monkeys really

15 (56m 5s):
Up until reading that story. Harriet thought that her sister's last had been only at a tormentor, like the time Harriet swelled and Appleseed and her big sister convinced her that she had an apple tree growing inside. Her she'd always been jealous of her sister. I was wanting to be the big sister, but reading our sister's story that day made me realize how responsible her sister felt for her and for their entire family. How there are benefits to being the baby. It was good to learn all that, but the vision of the lie that we live in a world where monkeys can be trained to paint, it's hard to give up.

19 (56m 34s):
And really it's just that I can still picture this tissue box and how much I loved it. This tissue box painted by trained monkeys.

15 (56m 47s):
I know what you means for me. There's something appealingly weird about a world where only people who happened to have been born with the name Nielsen, get to decide what goes on television. And not long after the day that Jody Mesa's coworker set her straight about the word thing. She found herself on the opposite side of the exact same situation. She was having a conversation with another coworker and he asked her if Elvis were real ELLs like that live in the forest, she asked with the pointy toes, he nodded, she paused. And then she said, yeah, of course they are.

1 (57m 27s):
Alex Bloomberg. These days. He's the host of a podcast about climate solutions called how to save upon it.

20 (57m 38s):
When I was a child, I thought As a child, My dream, My

1 (57m 57s):
Well, the problem is previous study by Jonathan Goldstein and myself with Alex Bloomberg, Wendy Darren Starley kind senior producer for today's show is Julie Snyder. Today's show is your spread cast years ago. Production help on this rerun from Sean Navarro and Matt Tierney. Special. Thanks today to the great Vivian Paley to bill arrows, Bernadine Dohrn, Michael Cohen of applied research and consulting. Elaine Evans, Brett Birks, Julie Rigby, Jennifer Fields, jacket, and Noah Miller. Our website, this American life.org. This American life has to go it to public radio stations by PRX, the public radio exchange. Thanks as always to our programs. Co-founder Mr. Troy Galatea who explains his behavior this way.

10 (58m 33s):
I've been cursed for 300 years.

1 (58m 37s):
Me too, bro. Me too. I'm IRA glass back next week with more stories of this American life Next week on the podcast of this American life.

1 (59m 19s):
So at second grade teacher Rosen, a TV pops in a movie that is so terrifying. It lines a bunch of kids in group therapy.

21 (59m 27s):
The six year old man, he was like, this is bull like this, this counselor is not worth a damn she's not giving us practical advice. Why are we wasting time talking about this? We need to focus on killing the leprechaun.

1 (59m 39s):
What happens when adults are not around next week on the podcast, on your local public radio station.