0 (1s):
Support for This American Life comes from Sierra Nevada brewing company, family owned, operated and argued over since 1980 proud supporter of independent thought, whether that's online over the air or in a can or bottle more@sierranevada.com.

1 (20s):
I have no idea what gave me the confidence to start performing magic shows from money. When I was 12, I was in an especially good. Hadn't been doing it for a long. I'm not sure I'd ever been to a magic show. I was a beginner. I was a real beginner. I'd been given one of those Magic kits. Like you'd give a little kid that they sell at toy stores. And then I went to the Baltimore County public library on Liberty road and found some books on Magic in the library. And it blew my mind that these books, it is these incredible secrets were just like sitting there, right there on the shelves and the open. Anybody could look at them. I could not understand why anybody was in any of the other aisles. I just felt like, Oh, they don't know. They don't know. These are here before long I was advertising and the Baltimore Jewish time's.

1 (1m 1s):
I was booking shows that paid $5. I believe the price was in the ad. These are our kids' birthday parties. My dad would drive me. The kids' parents would drive me home. After a few months at this, I got a call from a real magician, like an adult who actually knew what he was doing, who had noticed somebody undercutting his prices. Who are you? Yeah, it wasn't hostile. The Magic world of Baltimore was small and everybody knew everybody. So they have somebody new show up. Like he was just curious in general, you let me know that there was a magic store downtown on Charles street, where guys got together. Yogi Magic Mart on Saturday is a place to be crowded with any magician's who did not have Giggs that day. They would smoke.

1 (1m 41s):
And Show each other moves. And a guy named Dan teeny with a huge white beared used to go there. And he would give you one of those special coins. It was stamped with a words, Dan Teenie. He knew who Deenie. When he bought a truck, they took you to the special table in the backroom and said, you down and taught to you. One-on-one is that, remember that this was done with kindness, with helpful tips, how to talk to your hand, had to turn your body when to pause for effect. It was exciting to be taken seriously by these men sharing these secrets. I did my act from seventh grade through my sophomore year of high school. In 70 times, it got kind of carved into me. I could have probably performed it word for word and move from, move up through my thirties.

1 (2m 25s):
But now I have a hard time. I still regularly have dreams that I'm supposed to do. The act that when two weeks ago we decided to do this week's radio show about Magic. When I granted David Kestenbaum one of my co-workers here was also a kid's magician and I was away at birthday parties for years studying when he was in fourth grade. At the moment we sat down in the studio to talk about this. Like it only took about a minute to be comparing card moves with the four ACEs. One of them is face up. Right, but you can still go one, two, three, four. All I know is that you're doing a double lift on that first days, triple left, a triple lift. Then he got to do an album's, the Campo. And very quickly

2 (3m 0s):
We just started comparing gear appearing. Kane also disappearing came, Oh, I had the disappearing cane. He didn't have the appearing cane. The pink seems to go to dangerous. Doesn't it sort of S have a mechanism that don't say it, but like, doesn't it have it? That can be dead from the metal. One can be dangerous. I have the plastic one. Yeah, it was cheaper.

1 (3m 23s):
So when I was 12 years old, I had business cards. I got was a 12 year old with business cards and mine set on it, my name and magical mystery.

2 (3m 32s):
Well, my business card had said master magician, which is like, it seems like it's some level like a black belt level or something, you know, like that, like, I think a certified master magician or something. But yeah, no, that was pretty funny. Like imagine a 12 year old kid walks up to you in a hand, you have a, this is good. This is a master magician, to be more

1 (3m 49s):
Amazing. If they walked up to you and handed you a card that said certified David and I was talking about the stuff. And he said this thing that honestly had never crossed my mind ever in my life until he brought it up. We were talking about whether we were in a good,

2 (4m 10s):
I always thought I was fine. And then it occurred to me that maybe the reason that I got hired wasn't that I wasn't any good. It was 10 years old. And it was probably adorable to have this little magician come over in a three piece suit and do tricks for your kid's birthday. I feel like this is obviously true

1 (4m 33s):
And I'm finding it so upsetting, because what I realized is like, I thought I was the one who was in charge of the situation during the Magic show. And I was controlling everybody's minds with my mind and my Magic CRE. And what you're saying is actually that kind of like the joke was on me. Like, like I was the entertainment, but not in a way that I understood.

2 (4m 52s):
It's got to be true. Right. That's clearly to me is an adult. If you're like, Hey, there's this little kid will come over and do Magic for your party. I'm like done.

1 (5m 2s):
Yeah. In fact, he is when I usually think about my years during Magic shows the biggest feeling I have a bat, it is, I feel embarrassment. There's like a cloud of embarrassment that keeps me from staring at it too closely. Like I know I was doing these store-bought tricks and beginners level, slight of hand in a tuxedo and bow tie and a Cape with a bright red lining. And what a member of the act of some of that is pretty corny. But at the same time, I can say for sure, like audiences were engaged. They were engaged from beginning to end. Like people were not restless. And I know I got laughs and I thought I was good. Like, it seemed like I was good. So what's that like, after talking to David I realized like I do not have a clear picture of This at all.

1 (5m 48s):
And you know, like the things about our past that we'll never fully get into proper perspective, but This, this is a completely answerable question. So I called Judy Meltzer, who is a good friend of my mom's when my mom was alive, who lived around the corner from us and who booked me? Not once, but twice for her daughter, Amy,

3 (6m 8s):
First of all, all, I mean, you did that for quite a time, because one time, I mean, I wanted to get you a magic trick to the bar mitzvah, which you almost didn't have. As I recall anyway, and I went to the Magic store, your mother gave me the name of it downtown, the one you frequented and to a very good at it. Well, this is the thing that was, I was trying to get a fix on. Is w was, was I bad? No. Are you kidding me? You think I would? Of course not. You were a great, you did a terrific job. You liked it a lot. You think you're doing something different now?

3 (6m 48s):
Yes, I am doing something different now. No, you're not. You're not. Oh, no, I'm sorry. I don't buy that. Okay. Just think what you want. I'll think what I want to wait.

1 (6m 58s):
So when you hear me on the radio, it reminds you of my Magic.

3 (7m 3s):
It reminds me of who you have always been, as far as I'm concerned, you have a good at not only that you had a spiel, of course, that went with it. Wasn't that you just kinda did a trick and stuck it out there that like, that's it. And you know, you, you had a nice, a flowing, you know, record when he got a patter patter. Okay. Thank you. Yeah, you, you did, you did that, but I know that you were very professional with the outfit and everything. Yes. By the way, you didn't just wear the Cape. You used it. What did I do at the Cape? What are you talking about?

3 (7m 43s):
You know, like you would, you would flip the side back and it was a very professional way of wearing the eye of wearing the Cape to Cape

1 (8m 1s):
Okay. The assuring. But after David and I realized our common conjuring careers as magical Mister fire and master magician, we were talking and we realized that so much of our pleasure and Magic was just knowing how the tricks were done. Like the equipment itself was kind of mesmerizing with its false chambers and flaps and secrets to the audience. Didn't know like every trick had a principle behind it. And it was cool to think about the principal's the magician, a Ricky Jay, when he said this thing in, in an interview, he said that there are many effects in Magic where what's going on behind the scenes is actually a much more interesting than what the audience sees. And as a musician, you still don't want to say, if only you could know what's really happening here. And, but in today's show together, David and I dove into a bunch of stories with actual master magicians.

1 (8m 45s):
And I have to say the most exciting moments in all those stories are about that, about how intricate and psychological and ingenious what they do is. And even as we've writing and editing the stories like over and over, I've gotten that feeling of excitement about it, that I used to get handling the props or practicing the cups and balls. And that's the day Show from WB he's in Chicago. It's This, American, Life, I'm R a Glass stay with us. <inaudible> line, the oldest trick in the book. It can take years to come up with a magic trick. Several magicians told me this, which made me wonder what are they doing all that time?

1 (9m 27s):
Like what takes years to make something that's just a couple minutes long? And this is the part of Magic. I really knew nothing about from my time as a kid magician, like I never invented a tread. They didn't even occur to me. So wanting to see it, you know, how on MTV cribs, when they would do the house tours and get to the bedrooms, guys would always say, this is where the magic happens and okay. Very different context. But the act of inventing a magic trick, like that's actually where the magic happens. And I wanted to find a way he witnessed the dark beating heart of where Magic comes from. I wanted a magician to explain step-by-step what takes years, but the one magician who seemed not just interested, but actually kind of eager to come forward and do that was teller of Penn and teller tellers, the smaller one, the one he never speaks on the act, but of course in real life, he talks.

1 (10m 11s):
And he liked the idea of explaining how a trick has made. He wouldn't said no lecture, because

4 (10m 16s):
If you understand the good magic trick and I mean, really understand it, write down to the mechanics at the core of its psychology, the magic trick gets better, not worse. The tricky thing

1 (10m 28s):
We had to explain her on the radio is one that he loves to perform and performance a lot. He started working on it years ago, working to invent something new from Penn and teller's live state Show. There was this whole, the fact that he was intrigued by, it seemed like there might be something in it that he could adapt for himself. It's not unusual for a magician like teller to take some secret from a very old trick and repurpose it into something original. This particular one came from a Magic book written in the 1920s and thirties by a guy in Nebraska named David P. Abbott, an amateur magician who made his living as a loan shark. He was famous among musicians back then invent these incredible effects and perform them. But only in his living room, he thought that was the best place for Magic

4 (11m 7s):
Houdini. Thirsted Keller. All the big names of Magic would come to this guy's little house in Omaha, Nebraska to see these great shows and towards the end of his life, when people would come to his house, he would show him, he would show you the book that he had, that it was all of his Magic explained in detail. He died, the book wasn't published. His wife said she would publish it. She died two years later, the house was sold. The book advantage.

1 (11m 37s):
There was a legend in a certain corner of the Magic world. This last book with these incredible secrets. When a publisher went on a decades, long quest to locate the book, found pieces of it, and then finally a full manuscript and for legal sized loose-leaf binders, 40 years later in 1974 and put it into print for the first time. The trick that attracted Tyler was this golden ball, six inches across like a small Cannonball that had been, could float around his living room. That was supposed to be one of the most beautiful routines in Magic. That's exactly teller's taste. Tell her that she was doing silent, beautiful tricks, alone, onstage, and solo bits like this, or in every Penn and teller stage show is the most famous track is a pantomime with a Rose shadow and a carving knife.

4 (12m 22s):
I like stripping things down to the absolute simplicity, and it seems like a ball and a hoop and a person is about as simple as you can get. So he got to work and I started by taking the, the, the original David P avid book. This long loss book. And I set this book on a music stand in my library at home. And I learned this,

1 (12m 45s):
Let me just pause on this page. So this is a page which has seven photographs. And is that Abbott

4 (12m 49s):
That's David P. Abbott. Yes. He looks a bit like a white haired fireplace

1 (12m 53s):
And he's in a black suit and he's moving a hoop over a ball. And there is a little arrows indicating which way you turn it this way in that yes.

4 (13m 1s):
The level of detail that he provided was astounding. So, I mean, I feel like he is, he is speaking directly to me. It, he tells you how to make the paper machine, that you make a ball out of, you know, strips of newspaper X wide. And let me, let me show you some of the, a, some of the, the beautiful, beautiful floating move's that he created.

1 (13m 25s):
They were standing up and walking across the stage. I maybe I should of mentioned this earlier teller and my coworker David Kestenbaum and I are doing this interview on the stage where Penn and teller do their magic. Show five nights a week in Las Vegas in a big theater at the Rio hotel is recorded before the pandemic. And

4 (13m 41s):
We're going to have to go quite a distance to get this, to work.

1 (13m 43s):
Her picks up the ball and the thread. He asked us not to say anything here on the radio about the details of where the thread goes or how exactly it interacts with a ball. But there's still a lot. I can't say it's a picture of a guy and a hoop and a ball, and a very long thread on a stage.

4 (13m 59s):
The early days of this I'm learning moves to make the ball float.

1 (14m 2s):
And now let's say the ball is floating up the string towards you. And then from your left hand to your right hand,

4 (14m 8s):
You're actually catching the sound of it, which has, which is not normally audible to it, to an audience member.

1 (14m 13s):
Can I just record, can you just do it, tell her gestures, the vial, like He summoning it with his hand and it glides it on the thread to him. That's a sound you're hearing. It was a mind is a David and I can actually see that he's tilting the thread downwards, and that's why it sides towards them. Like, we can see the ball's on a thread. We can see how it's done. We hear it sliding along. I got it. That's pretty at the same time. It totally looks like he's this sorcerer who enchanted this inanimate object into a bang and do that is so beautiful. Actually, when you see the thread.

4 (14m 45s):
Yes, it is. I mean, here's, here's one of David P Abbott's moves it. He invented the ball is floating from hand to, without really any movement on the part of either of the, either of the hands Just by an intricate, the way that the thread is interlaced in the fingers,

1 (14m 60s):
Then takes the hoop and spins it around the ball in various ways, which makes it look like there can't possibly be a thread there, but of course we can see the threat. Can I say that's crazy. That is so convincing. Your brain really can not start that out

4 (15m 11s):
In the brain can not sort this out. It's visual. Double-talk, it's amazing. And I'm sitting here, I'm doing it. And it's still fooling my brain,

1 (15m 21s):
Which I totally remember it from being a kid magician and practicing the thumb Palm in the French drop in all the other slight of hand in front of a mirror. If you do it right, it fools you, you know, it feels amazing to you. And that's how you know, the trick is working. So this was teller's first step to inventing his own version of the Trek. He spent months mastering David P habits moves from a a hundred years ago. He started to figure out what else he could make the ball, do it on his own. You practice everyday. He took the ball on three it on vacation with him and videotape himself. See how the moves look.

4 (15m 56s):
Oh, no, I will show you this one. Here I am in a cabin in Utah, my pajamas, I just, I was just obsessed with it. He took it

1 (16m 8s):
A trip to Toronto. We're a musician friend told him that the version of the floating ball routine that he did. And then we tell her that was there. He tried this thing, just kind of messing around. He put the ball on a bench and lifted one end of the bench and then made the boat row up to the bench. And then later he had this thought that the football was actually more interesting to watch when it's not floating. When it's just this ball, that's somehow alive in rolling around it's weirder. And its more mysterious is less clear what's

4 (16m 36s):
It began to cross my mind that no one had ever done a floating bolt that didn't float. And I was, I was jubilant. I thought, Oh boy, I got an idea. I finally got an idea. I finally got an original idea to go with this. With this, with this method,

1 (16m 53s):
The next step was to put something together into a routine like an actual trick as it might be performed. This is about to a tremendous amount of invention, making up all kinds of new moves on his own for the floating ball that does not float.

4 (17m 6s):
Here's here's a move where I kick it across the stage in Atlanta softly.

1 (17m 11s):
All right, let me just describe what you're doing. So you're kicking the boat when it's going maybe 12 feet out there and then suddenly coming to a stop and just sitting on the floor

4 (17m 18s):
Of what you would think in real life. If you kick a ball, the ball doesn't stop until it runs out a momentum. So this is suddenly that ball stops, stops dead, unbelievably difficult. It's it's me using leverage and Slack and all sorts of,

1 (17m 34s):
He was like that. He spent months in pending. These moves at night alone in the theater, after they finished the shows and all of this is preparation. Show his partner pen. At this point, he hadn't seen anything. It was a lot of preparation, all sorts of things like he'd been practicing with a silver ball, like David P Abbott's mysterious floating gold orb. But now are you in a place to where the kids' bar that bounds the size of a kickball? Cause Magic is more magical if you do it with real stuff that people know anybody to set, it was changing fans. Cause he thought, where did is he a kid's box at the playground? But he says, when he put the chain link fence up on stage, it suddenly felt like the set of Godspell. And he ditched in David and I asked him, why didn't you just Show pen something rough, do something with the moves you'd been inventing.

1 (18m 21s):
And he said, no, no, no. That's the thing about Magic

4 (18m 23s):
You can't look at a half a finished piece of Magic and know whether it's good or not. It has to be perfect before you can evaluate whether it's good. I mean, Magic is a fantastically meticulous form.

5 (18m 37s):
You, you forgive other

4 (18m 39s):
Forms. I'm a musician misses, a note moves on fine. You know that he'll come to the conclusion of the piece Magic is an on off switch either. It looks like a miracle

1 (18m 50s):
It's stupid. So

4 (18m 58s):
I sped up, I would guess it was, it was probably 11 months or so putting together a routine of moves that I invented with the non floating floating ball. And I showed it the pen. Describe the act that he saw, like what was it? I believe that what he saw was very, very artsy. It was very lonely. It was very sweetly melancholy. I was trying to recreate that sense of solitude in, in, in a theater later

1 (19m 31s):
The night

4 (19m 38s):
Way back in the theater way towards the back so that he can get a wide stage view of it. I finished it and he quietly, I got up left the theater and I thought, Hmm, that's probably not a good sign. So I went back to his dressing room and we talked for awhile.

5 (19m 59s):
I remember being in the dress room of being really, really, really wicked uncovered.

1 (20m 4s):
There is of course the teller stage partner pendulate

5 (20m 6s):
There was nothing about it that grabbed me. I thought it was technically good as a juggling bit. I thought it was okay juggling.

1 (20m 13s):
He means the mechanics of moving the ball around.

5 (20m 16s):
And it was the first time we'd really had something that outside of, outside of the overlap

4 (20m 25s):
To get into the Penn and teller Show it has to be an idea that appeals to both Penn and me. And he said, and to his credit, he said that he thought it was way too Cirque de Solei. It was way too sort of artsy pretentious.

5 (20m 42s):
I remember a teller getting a little bit mad at me because I said a what's the idea behind this? And

4 (20m 48s):
He was a very offended. He was like, well, the idea is the trick, you know? And I think it hadn't clicked with him because it lacked an essential dramatic idea. Of course, to me, I'm I'm I was, I was all wrapped up in the idea that it was a floating wall. Wasn't a floating, which isn't a very good idea. I mean, that's, that's not an idea that communicates to an audience.

1 (21m 12s):
And I stayed at Starbucks. They talked about what idea might work with a trick pen, suggest to presenting it as the kind of history piece on Ocasek with period music, that kind of thing that they would do at a Magic history conference to tell I got excited about that. Emailed him later, adding to the idea like they tell the audience he was using a method from a hundred years ago, but that electronic technology and no help from off stage, imagining that version of the trick pen wrote him back from reading this and lost a little faith. And the idea, I guess we can try this, but it doesn't seem to bring another level in. Maybe we should just do it the way he wanted and not look for more here. I'm sure if people like it fine. I don't know.

1 (21m 53s):
It seems to make a lot of what I did when I maybe worse. I don't know. I don't have to like every been in the Show that's for sure that I don't like that seemed wrong for pen to settle. He got back to work to solve a problem. And here's why we're making this trick turned from just the mechanics of moving a ball around on a thread to actually thinking through what tells a story what's engaging. What's fun to watch what's satisfying and talk. I realized one of the things that was missing from the trick, he says any magic trick is better. If there's a reason the magic happens. So for instance, if you

4 (22m 29s):
Put, let's say a coin into your hand, close your hand, snap your fingers, open it. And the coin is gone. There's not much of an impact to that. And the reason for that is that the action seems arbitrary that there doesn't seem to be a cause that makes that event happen. Oh, that was like, why would a coin disappear? Yes. If you put The the same coin in your hand, close your hand and even do Just This even just say, take out S a S S a a match, light the match, pass it around your hand and act with a sudden jolt as though something has happened inside your head where the coin melted away and you've been burnt and you open your hand and there is no coin.

4 (23m 10s):
Now that level of acting that level of causality that suggests that somehow the fire of a match could make a coin, melt away, suddenly adds a dimension to it that I think is pretty crucial. It was also, it gives you a story when he gives it a little bit of a story, it gives it, he gives it emotion. And I realized that I was doing all of this stuff with nothing causing it. There was no cause Y is the ball moving around and the ball is just moving around and it was just arbitrary movement.

1 (23m 42s):
I want to tell our collaborators the better a magician named Johnny gave him the suggestion that changed everything though. He said, you got to treat the ball like a train, a dog that would give her a reason for its movement logic. Because to tell a try at it,

4 (23m 56s):
I, I thought, well, you know, what is a typically a train, a dog jumps through a hoop. So a trained dog has not always going to do what it wants, what you wanted to do, but I'd hold up the hoop. The dog wouldn't respond. I'd call the dog. Instead of jumping through the hoop, it would come over and land on the rim of the hoop. I sit down and ignore it. What does the dog do when you ignore it while it very often comes to you? And what a w here's what's happening what's happening is I'm realizing that the plot of this is the dog trainer is getting the dog to jump through a hoop. That becomes the plot. That becomes a little bit of a story.

1 (24m 33s):
Now he had a plot and a story teller did something else at this stage. It's so essential and basic to the kind of drama that particularly happens in a Magic. Show.

4 (24m 42s):
One of the things that you do as a magician is you try to, you try to put yourself in the position of the audience at every moment. And you say, what would I be thinking at this moment? And you try to manipulate that. And one of the ways you do that is by giving the audience a little chance to figure something out and then take it away from them.

1 (25m 2s):
And so he does that with this routine, reimagined it, the bus start's on the bench, always in contact with the bench. So the audience will think the ball is controlled by the bench. And then he goes to the bottle off the bench. It sticks to his finger and floats in the air. So they might conclude that it's his finger that controls the ball. And then he drops to the floor away from his finger.

4 (25m 24s):
Each time you think of something, I give you the chance to think of that. And then I take it away from you. One, one thing after the other,

1 (25m 31s):
It takes a lot of work. He finishes the new routine, shows it to his partner pen who hates it truly, truly hates it. Yeah.

5 (25m 39s):
Is he makes it further away from where my tastes would be. At least when it was an abstract moving thing, it's closer to my taste. Once he becomes something like a dog, it's moved very far out of a taste because you hate an animated object. I do. I hate, I hate, I hate anthropomorphism. I don't like relationships with animals or inanimate objects at all, which is basically what this is. But see, the thing is, where is my argument?

1 (26m 11s):
Where where's this argument? Like, what is he supposed to say? This is a delicate conversation right here. These two men, they respect each other, but don't socialize or hang out together. Who've been arguing. They say constantly and fiercely, but productively for over 40 years. And Penn knows how much work teller has put into this trick and how much you would enjoy performing it every night.

5 (26m 32s):
No, he's not saying this outright, but it's implicit. This is beautiful. This is mystifying. This is entertaining. People will love it. It's really important to me.

1 (26m 45s):
All those five things are true. So it's very, very uncomfortable, uncomfortable because Penn agrees. It's a great trick. Totally works. He just doesn't like it. It doesn't feel like they are Show to him, his red ball. That's also a disobedient puppy. I was like the kind of idea you might see in a cartoon. And they try to build the show around the principle that there should be nothing in the show that feels even vaguely familiar to the audience. None of that you can imagine seeing in anybody else's work. So a pen doesn't say, yes, I didn't say no. Either. He says the tower to be in the show. It still needs one more idea to really make it ours and our respect for each other to try to come up with that idea.

4 (27m 28s):
And I don't know which one of us brought it up. I think I'm the one who said, what if we actually said, I said the, you know, when Mike close and Johnny Thompson came and watched me do this trick,

1 (27m 38s):
These are the two of the magicians they admire.

4 (27m 40s):
They knew there was a thread there. And because they knew there was a thread there, they were more baffled than in an audience that could imagine that there is that this was being done with a little gyroscope inside the, inside the ball. So I said, what if we say right out at the top, here's a trick that's done with a piece of thread and a special backdrop. Penn said, I think all you need is now here's a trick that's done with a piece of thread that gives them so much. It brings them over on to our side. And suddenly this now had an idea. And the idea was bigger than the little plot with a little ball. It was bigger than all the little magic tricks.

4 (28m 22s):
It was that you can state the actual method of a magic trick clearly at the beginning of it. And it can still fall the hell out of the people. It can see that that was by knowing this extra piece of information, the trick

1 (28m 36s):
That's better. In other words of the audience in the theater at the same feeling that David and I had standing on stage, seeing the thread and still feeling amazed, not the audience, can't see the thread, but they know it's there somewhere. Penn did Gabi a little bit of a sudden change in lighting. The boom would reveal the thread to the audience fully visible, but in the end, this solution, just telling them about the thread. It was enough for him at 18 months after Taylor picked up David P habits book to practice. The first time he didn't pen added the ball to there show is not the longest day I've ever worked on a trip, not even close. They told me about one that took him six years of making anything good takes time.

1 (29m 18s):
There's a, there's a quote that you're a partner of 40 years pendula had said about you. It's kind of mean there's no better partner than tower there's. He's not the smartest or most creative person have ever been around, but he was the hardest working. He will not give up. You can put them on a single task. And in the middle of it, hit him with a baseball bat square in the face. And he goes right back to the task. Well, I'm sure

4 (29m 42s):
He's talking directly about this bit in, and that is true. It is true. I have a certain dog with a slipper quality about me, especially I, I do trust my gut. This trick that we do in the show is not the trick that I thought we were going to do, but it is the trick. It was calling me out to me, you know,

1 (30m 18s):
Tell her, tear it up. Cause he said, This. I told his partner at Penn.

5 (30m 21s):
Yeah, he, he does. He does get choked up about it. There was stuff I get choked up about to, it's not it.

1 (30m 31s):
They are very different people, Penn and teller, even the way they tell a story. And Tyler is telling the story has a happy ending. They added the extra idea of compromise was reached. The partnership worked when Penn has the story, the compromise, it was a little deeper.

5 (30m 47s):
I think that a teller does a beautiful job in the audience, loves it. And I kind of zone out. It doesn't feel like the, the whole bit just snaps into what it should be. You know? It doesn't feel like now, even now, even now, you're not into that track. No. Maybe telling me that. I know that, but I mean, tell there may have noticed that every Show order we'd come up with, at some point I suggest we have a show without the red ball. He probably noticed that. I don't know if he noticed it is a pattern that shows up, but can I say again really good trick.

5 (31m 31s):
He has a beautiful job. He worked really hard and the audience loves him.

1 (31m 35s):
No, he told me, of course he knew the pen still had his doubts. You don't work together so long. He said that without knowing something like that, interestingly, I have to five years of performing this trick, they changed the ending tad more of a pen wanted, which is to underline the fact that it's done with a thread a little more. You can do this version of the trick online. There's a video from Penn and teller's TV show fool us. They have a link to our website. Here's where they added to finally finish the trick for over six years, I have to tell our first started practicing with our habits books. At the end of the routine pen walks out on stage, grabs the thread from tower and then dangles the ball from the thread. Pen takes an oversize. Scissors cuts the thread. The ball drops to the ground and pen kicks the ball cross the stage.

1 (32m 18s):
He was mad. He was acting of course, but he was into that ball with Gusto coming out, making a very, very big object and object to big, to fit in the building or making it disappear. That's on a minute from Chicago public radio. When our program continues

2 (32m 41s):
Support for This American Life comes from Sierra Nevada brewing company in 1980 with a few thousand dollars and used dairy equipment. Ken Grossman founded Sierra Nevada brewing company. Ken's award-winning Ailes propelled him from home brewer to craft brewer. And today Ken and his family still own 100% of the company. One of the most successful independent craft breweries in America, more@sierranevada.com support for This American Life comes from better help. Online counseling, better help offers licensed counselors who specialize in issues, including depression and anxiety, as well as relationships, trauma, anger, and more.

2 (33m 21s):
You can connect privately with a counselor through text chat, phone, or video calls, and you'll get help on your own time@yourownpaceandatanaffordablerateforaspecialoffervisitbetterhelp.com slash T a L that's better help.com/t a L This American Life Myra Glass today's program. The Magic Show my coworker David Kestenbaum and I both of us form our kid magicians returned to Magic as adults. And it all looks very different today. Show was first broadcast in 2017, we have arrived at act two of our program act to the lady vanishes. So in putting together this show David became obsessed with this one trick that he had seen back when he was a teenager, the Guinness book of world records listed as the largest illusion ever staged.

2 (34m 8s):
David wanted to know what it was like to be on the other side of that one, like what it was like to beat the magician. Again, the story was made pre coronavirus. He was David. This is a trick I loved when I was a kid I'd kind of forgotten about it. And then one night I was home recently watching the TV show, the Americans that shows about this family, living in the us in the 1980s and the parents, our undercover Russian spies, because its set in the 1980s, these big historic moments pop up, president Reagan getting shot, Iran, Contra, but then this one episode, it opens with this.

6 (34m 43s):
This is the statue of Liberty. David. Copperfield's making the statue of Liberty disappear on TV. Every single person I know is going to be watching This dad. He was about to do it.

2 (34m 57s):
I remember this exact moment happening in my house. I was 13 years old about the same age as those kids. And as a kid magician, I think I'd circled the time and channel and the TV guy. That was our family system for reserving televisions. When I've tried to relive this amazing moment in American history with other people though, I get mostly blank stares, but I figured someone involved with the Americans must have been a nerd like me because there's like two minutes at the show where the family has just watching the trick on television

6 (35m 25s):
<inaudible>.

2 (35m 29s):
So I reached out and yeah, one of the producers of the Americans, Joel fields, it was just like me. I was in my parents' wood den in Toronto, Canada on their Brown quarter, a couch it's extremely possible. I brought some friends just like me in one other way too. I was a magician as a kid, the whole thing hanging out at the local magic shop. His colleague, Joe Weisberg was there also the creator of the Americans. Joe kept ribbing us through the interview. Where were you when you, you watch the David Copperfield special, not watching the David Copperfield special we're even aware that it had happened. I would have to say no.

2 (36m 11s):
For those of you who are not following the national Magic scene of the night <inaudible> and I realized now there are many of you, David Copperfield is one of two, truly big name illusionists at the time it felt like he was in the kind of battle with the other one. Doug Henning, both had TV specials on the separate networks. Copperfield was a handsome, clean cut. Henning was the hippie wearing a tie dye with long hair teeth that hadn't seen braces. I was squarely team Copperfield. My boss IRA Glass I learned while we were editing the story. 1000% team Henning loved Henning's goofy sense of wonder, which I hated Copperfield. My man seemed driven intent on proving that he was the best in the world.

2 (36m 53s):
Going bigger. Every time in his previous TV special, he had made an airplane disappear. Joe was somehow unaware of this. Two was the airplane on the ground are in the sky. Know it was on the ground. Yeah. Well that's not, you know? Yeah, it was actually, people stood around this airplane in a ring holding hands and it just vanished the statue of Liberty even more amazing. I watched it again with Joe and Joel and here I'll just narrate for you. Imagine it's 1983. You're in the family living room on some couch.

6 (37m 25s):
The illusion of the century David covered. Well, the attempt to make a statue of Liberty disappear,

2 (37m 33s):
The TV special opens with helicopter footage of the statue. Illusion happens at night. So it's all lit up. We fly up by the crown, the torch and then cut to the man himself. David Copperfield looking like a teen heartthrob, big dark eyes, some sort of silvery rockstar jacket. And This of course didn't register with me as a middle school kid, but he's young to be taking on something. So ambitious 26 years old, he gives this little speech.

6 (38m 1s):
Good evening. I'm David and tonight we're here on Liberty. People come to this Island by boat and I've made the trip quite frequently during this past year, getting ready for tonight. A couple of weeks ago, when I was on the boat, a young sightseer about seven years old came up to me and said, are you David? He said he saw me to make the car disappear. And then he said, he saw me make the jet plane disappear. I thanked him. And I watched his, he looked up at the statue of Liberty and at me and that to the statute, come back to me. Finally, he looked me right the eye and said, are you thinking what I think you're thinking, well, that's what I was thinking. All right.

2 (38m 41s):
I, somehow that had happened exactly like that, but whatever, finally it's

6 (38m 46s):
David's Magic is performed with absolutely no camera tricks. The illusion you are watching at home is exactly the way he is doing it. Now

2 (38m 56s):
Copperfield has an audience sitting right there on Liberty Island at the foot of the statue. Everyone is sitting on the stage. It's outdoors looking up at the huge statue of Liberty, which is about 200 feet away. There are spotlights on it in a helicopter circling overhead. Our view is the same as the audience. We're just behind him looking up at the statue two on either side of the stage of our two big scaffolding towers, kind of framing the shot. You have a view of the statue between what happens. Next is one continuous camera shot, no visible edits. A giant curtain is hoisted up suspended between those two scaffolding powers. You can't see the statue now, but it has to be there right behind the curtain.

2 (39m 37s):
Then Copperfield puts his left hand to his temple, closes his eyes. This is a signature Copperfield move familiar to me. Then now it's as if he is doing it with his mind, a few seconds pass the curtain drops.

6 (39m 51s):
It's a fricking God gone, gone.

2 (39m 59s):
The spotlight's or the helicopter is still a circle, but now circling nothing, just empty space. The camera cuts to reactions from the audience. Everyone seems astonished. There's one guy wearing a priest's collar.

6 (40m 12s):
I was amazed. I don't see he was there and it's not there anymore. Do you have any ideas where it went? I have no idea. No idea. And then an older woman, I have never seen a statue a little bit limited disappear the way this one did.

2 (40m 31s):
I think in an attempt to land some larger meaning makes a speech about immigrants and how we shouldn't take our Liberty for granted. And he makes a statue reappear. Even Joe Weisberg, the non Magic fan. When he finally watched it as an adult, he was moved for Joel and me as kid magicians. We tried to figure out how he did it. Did you have any theories I had? No, I did not have a good theory that as somebody who knew a lot of Magic gimmicks, I was pretty dumbfounded. Didn't did your friend say, tell me how he did it. I'm sure they did. And I think I would have, I would like to believe that I told them, I didn't know, I'm not proud of this, but when kids asked me how Copperfield did it, I have a pretty clear memory of saying something like, sorry, I can't tell you which was true.

2 (41m 18s):
I couldn't.

6 (41m 19s):
Hm.

2 (41m 25s):
Sometimes it is not so fun to learn how a trick has done. It's all double lifts and hidden compartments. And when you learn the secret, it can kind of a letdown,

7 (41m 35s):
But there are those times when the secret to the trick is cooler than the trick itself, the sheer ingenuity and genius of it. And so I'm going to talk now, but how this trick might of been done, we thought a lot of that,

2 (41m 50s):
Whether to put this on the radio, but the truth is you are all a simple Google search away from what I'm about to tell you. That is one of the weird things about Magic today. Over 30 years later, the internet exists. There's a whole world of explanations and pretty good instructional videos for aspiring magicians. But if you'd rather not go down this road with me, you can skip ahead or stop listening for about 10 minutes. I totally respect that. I should also say we did reach out to David Copperfield and we made a pitch, which was basically, this may be your greatest hit. It's been 34 years. Now everyone is going to be fooled by this trick has already been fooled. You'll never perform it again. Nobody is going to perform it again. We're not hurting the livelihood of any magician by revealing the secret.

2 (42m 33s):
Why not come on the show and talk about what it was like to be on the other side, Copperfield was completely gracious, but he said it wasn't his job to talk about how the tricks are done.

7 (42m 43s):
And he said something else. He said to protect the secrets of his tricks. He's hired

2 (42m 47s):
People to put fake explanations online,

7 (42m 50s):
To throw the curious off the track, which of course make the whole thing even more interesting. So here's the explanation that is on the internet. And also in one book written by a non-musician instead of moving in the statue Copperfield movie, the audience, the entire audience rotated them. Actually

2 (43m 22s):
They were sitting unknowingly on a giant

7 (43m 25s):
Rotating platform. Think a huge lazy Susan.

2 (43m 29s):
Here's how it would have worked. The curtain gets hoisted up between the two towers, blocking the statue from view and while it's up the platform with the entire audience on it and the giant scaffolding towers and the curtain, the whole thing rotates until it's facing away from the statue. So that when the curtain fall's, the audience is looking out at nothing, or I think to be precise, they're looking at a part of the New Jersey coastline.

7 (43m 54s):
It's such a beautiful secret, smart, simple, and big. There was another part of the secret, which is even cooler. When I first heard there might have been a rotating platform. I wonder

2 (44m 11s):
That was to stop the audience members from just turning their heads and seeing the statue after all it should of been just off to one side, the answer it's hidden in what in retrospect is the only possible place behind one of the scaffolding powers used to hold the curtain up. The scaffolding tower is tiny compared to the statue, but it's close enough to the audience that with the platform, rotate it to just the right position. The tower blocks the statue from view, watching the TV special again, knowing this made it even more impressive. I kept thinking how exciting and nerve wracking it. Must've been to be Copperfield in that moment to pull this off the rotation. Would've had to been fast enough that it didn't seem to take too long, but not so fast that someone would notice and super smooth.

2 (44m 57s):
Here's Joel fields, former kid magician. First of all, how could the people that are not have noticed it's like high stakes, right? It's ballsy to put these people on a thing and like, hope that really no, one's going to notice it's a wildly gutsy trick. Why could it have not worked? What could've gone wrong? A one or more

8 (45m 14s):
People could've said, Hey, this platforms rotating.

2 (45m 17s):
Someone could of had a compass. The more I thought about this, the more questions I had, it was this really how it was done. Could you get away with something like that? Maybe this was a fake explanation planted by David Copperfield, a scaffolding power to hide some deeper secret. I figured the best thing would be to track down some of the audience members who are there at the foot of the statue of Liberty. But remember this happened in 1983. And in any case, none of the audience members are named. I didn't see any easy way to track them down. But as I was watching and rewatching the video of the trick, I found one shot where someone's name was revealed. Someone I could try to contact.

2 (45m 58s):
It comes in the lead-up or Copperfield is in the office of the parks service official from the statue of Liberty. It's just a quick cutaway where he's explaining that he had to get permission to make the statute disappear. But if you freeze frame on that part, you can just make out on the man's desk, a nameplate David L Moffitt. I had no idea that this guy was still alive. This was after all 34 years ago, but I started searching for a David L Moffitt and I found one in Virginia, but with a previous residents of Liberty Island, I got it on a plane to fly down.

8 (46m 34s):
He recognized automatically my driveway is that Carolina

2 (46m 39s):
Three, 10 years. If you wanted to do anything with the statue of Liberty, you had to go through David L Moffitt. He lived on the little Island with his family. The park service has a house there. The statue was right outside his window. He felt like it was his job to protect.

8 (46m 53s):
And it was almost a member of the family.

2 (46m 56s):
So when a deodorant maker tried to use her in an ad, maybe because she has her arm up, David Moffitt fought back. When a furniture company wanted to hang a couch from her and have someone sit in the couch, he vetoed it. And when David Copperfield requested permission to make her disappear, he said, no,

8 (47m 12s):
I personally felt that was inappropriate. Use of such a sacred icon. And I wrote back a rejection to the request. And I thought that probably was the end of it.

2 (47m 27s):
But a couple weeks later, Moffitt gets letter in the mail from the director of the national park service, giving Copperfield permission, Copperfield. He had gone over his head. He had connections and the white house Copperfield's team did confirm this. They said he got permission directly from Ronald Reagan.

8 (47m 43s):
Put it mildly. That was a little bit taken back a few days later or walked in the office. And there is David Copperfield. He was standing up. There was a very handsome, nice looking guy. Well dressed,

2 (47m 57s):
Copperfield apologized for getting them. Overruled. Moffitt says, Copperfield seems sincere like a nice guy

8 (48m 3s):
Last signed the permit. And then he says that I would like for you to sign a waiver, that you will not disclose how I make the statute disappear. And I was like, Nope, I won't do that. As soon as I would never do anything that would limit my freedom of speech,

2 (48m 20s):
Hard to argue with that way or at the foot of the statue of Liberty. Moffitt was there during the filming and he saw how the trick was done. He says he kept his mouth shut for the last three decades. Only told family and a few friends, but he confirmed for me the explanation on the internet. That is the real explanation even demonstrated for me.

8 (48m 40s):
We've got the lazy Susan that I used for pottery. That thing. Could you get that? Or I'll get it.

2 (48m 47s):
He had a miniature, a statue of Liberty. Of course,

8 (48m 50s):
That stage starts turning and it goes maybe 25 or 30 degrees to the right

2 (48m 57s):
During the filming. Moffett was standing just off to the side of the platform. I found another guy who was there and who confirmed the basic mechanics of how the trick was done. But talking to him made me wonder if there might be a whole other level of deception to the trick is name is Al Sorello. His name was in the credits for the Show. He flew a helicopter or in the Vietnam war. And now for TV and movies. So many, the Avengers Spiderman, Muppets take Manhattan. The one I want to ask you about was in the 1980s,

3 (49m 28s):
That would be probably Turk one 80 to one of those movies. He was in 1993, not Nighthawks, the statue of Liberty, a working girl. Now when David Copperfield made a statue of David Copperfield. Yeah, yeah, that was a pretty big deal. Actually. He told me the whole time,

2 (49m 50s):
But his job was to fly from position a to position B. Well, the curtain was blocking the view basically from above the statute to above a designated empty spot, which was rigged with duplicate spotlights. If you think about it at the helicopter and the lights are the fixed points on the trick, the things that make the audience think they're looking at

3 (50m 7s):
At the same spot, I didn't think he was going to be able to pull it off. How come, like, what were you worried about happening on the stage where you'd feel the stage move on or whatever, what they spent a lot of money, evidently on some kind of Barings in the stage on the bottom so that you wouldn't feel it. And it got delayed a couple of times because you know, it wasn't working. Right. You know that couldn't get it to work the way he wanted,

2 (50m 36s):
Which put this unpleasant thought in my head, was the audience really fooled by this? Or were they maybe in on it the whole time?

3 (50m 44s):
A yes. Is that right? Yeah. That's yeah. So I have some of the people in the audience were staged that knew what was going to happen, but not everybody. I don't think so. No, I don't know about that part of it. You know, we never got into that. I never asked him, he never mentioned it. You know,

2 (51m 5s):
David L Moffitt, the park service guy was the audience in on it. He answered with a story. This happened just after they finished shooting,

8 (51m 13s):
Their body was slapping their body on the, on the back and everybody happy at all. And I said something to one of the so-called audience. How did you end up here? And she said, Oh, I was paid for this. And I was paid to come here. And that was kind of the end of the conversation. And I was, I didn't, that's not what I wasn't investigating. I was just curious where these people came from, especially when they act so amazed that it was a decision that it had disappeared because they felt the stage move and they, they couldn't help, but feel the stage moving. Do you think they were all actors?

8 (51m 55s):
I dunno if they were actors or a one to be at least, I don't know. I know that one of them was paid to be there

2 (52m 3s):
Is there Moffitt went back over this in his memory because he wanted to be accurate. He later told us, he thinks it was one of his employees who talked to the woman to be fair. It's been over 30 years, but this thought that the audience might have been in on it, it made me incredibly sad. It felt like cheating. If all these people going, wow, they were paid to go, wow, they weren't fooled. That's not Magic. That's like we're watching a play about Magic. I told the Americans, producers, Joe, and Joel about this Joel, the former kid magician. Didn't see it the way I did at all. It means he bought off the whole audience. No, no, no, it doesn't.

2 (52m 44s):
It might mean that it doesn't. He let's say He know the audience was us. The television audience is the audience he promised to make the statue of Liberty disappear with no camera tricks. He made the statue of Liberty. This is a beer with no camera tricks. It's pretty dramatic. And it was moving. I think it's a little troubling if true. If I honestly didn't know what to believe, I've watched the TV special again and again. And some of the audience members started to look like actors, or at least in moments like Just after the curtain drops and the statue has gone. This one guy leans over to the woman next to him in points in this kind of hokey way.

2 (53m 29s):
Then there's the fact that one of the audience members is an a priest color. Really? You happen to get a priest in the audience and a priest dressed that way.

7 (53m 37s):
Then they go out at night. Finally, I got a tip. I was at This Magic Show talking to these two people. One of them

2 (53m 50s):
I'll call it a former high ranking official in the Magic establishment. They knew someone who had been there on Liberty Island during the filming of the show and would know the truth. I called the person up and he agreed to talk.

9 (54m 4s):
My name is ed Alonzo. I'm known as the misfit of Magic. And maybe you remember me as max, the owner of the diner on say by the way,

2 (54m 11s):
Well, ed was also the guy who made that curtain go up and down in front of the statue of Liberty. Actually, there were two guys who is a big curtain ad was 18 years old at a time, a young magician. So he stayed overnight at David Copperfield's parents' house in New Jersey. Before the shoot, I told them I had heard the audience might have been in on it. I told them what the parks service guy he had told me that an audience member had said she had been paid to be there.

9 (54m 34s):
Really see I'm totally surprised. It is possible that maybe some of the people were paid to be there only because they couldn't get enough regular people with the amount of tickets that they gave.

2 (54m 45s):
But sometimes you do use paid extras in an audience. He says, they show up on time and you can tell them the dress nicely.

9 (54m 52s):
But even if they were paid people, they would have not have known how the trick was done. There was no reason for, for anyone to know ahead of time

2 (54m 59s):
Copperfield's team, by the way, it says no audience members were paid. If they say the woman who claimed she was paid to be there, must've been on the production staff. And that says an enormous amount of work was done to make sure the trick would fool people. Ed didn't want to talk about or confirm the mechanics of the trick, but he said they did a whole dry run beforehand out in Los Angeles. The idea to make the statue of Liberty disappear came from an illusion designer named Jim Steinmeyer Copperfield's team would the help of a guy named Don Wayne added all kinds of improvements and built the stage as a test. They use it to make the moon disappear. They set the stage up basically in this parking lot.

9 (55m 37s):
Yeah, we were in a parking lot because this, the stage was an enormous David thought that, you know, we have to do kind of a demonstration to work out the bugs. Before we haul this thing to New York,

2 (55m 47s):
A bunch of top magician's in LA set on the stage. Copperfield made the moon disappear and everyone gave notes tweaks to make it better. So he could full a real audience. And he says the night of the filming at the statue of Liberty, it was clear to him that the people in the audience were fooled. I asked him why in a couple of shots, the audience seems a little fake to me. He had a pretty good explanation, which is that they filmed the trick multiple times. Copperfield's team officially denies This ed says it. So though,

9 (56m 16s):
I think that maybe after we did it about the third or fourth time, some of the people that were sitting on this platform may

2 (56m 24s):
Have had an idea as to what was going on. I grilled ed for an hour about this and for what it's worth. I believe him when he says the audience was not in on it, but they do have this tiny sliver of doubt, which is, I have to say, I kind of enjoyed the feeling. David Copperfield told us he was disappointed that we wanted to do our story on a trick that's over 30 years old, he said he had better stuff. Now, stuff, he just invented it. He was totally jazzed about you need to see it. He said, so IRA and I went to a show in Las Vegas. Copperfield is 60 years old now and doing two or three shows a day.

2 (57m 8s):
That's just how he rolls the other year. He did over 600 performances. The show is not all to my taste, but it was amazing. The work of an obsessive person driven to keep creating new things. At one point, the lights went out just for a brief moment. And when they came back on an enormous flying saucer had appeared right over our heads. I mean, huge. It took up a good part of the theater and it moved like the millennium, Falcon or something hovering and banking the way you imagine flying saucers moving when you were a kid, it was this moment of just sheer surprise.

7 (57m 43s):
Is it the light and joy? I don't care how he did it. <inaudible>

1 (58m 7s):
I remember is produced today by David Kestenbaum and me people who put together today's program include Dan and Chivas. John Cole, Whitney Dangerfield, Karen Duffin, Stephanie Fu Conicelli, Walt, Nicki meek, Jonathan <inaudible>, Christopher Shatara, Matt Tierney, Nancy Updike, Julie Whittaker, and Diane Wu senior producer for today's program is Brian Reed, managing editor for today's show Susan Burton, additional production help on this. We ran by Nora Gil and Stowe Nelson, especially thanks today to Sara, Seth and Adam Goran to Danny Miller and to magician Neil Patrick Harris, Penn and teller, who you heard at the beginning of the show have a Christmas special that airs December 16th in a new season of their incredibly good natured TV show full us starts in January, the color Johnny Thompson, who had mentioned in that story. He died last year, our website This American life.org.

1 (58m 50s):
Where if you go this week, we have something special. You can see a few pages of David P Abbot's book of Magic with a few of his very meticulous instructional photos of the flooding, by which you have to say, show me something to see. So you can see embarrassing photos of me in a Cape and David in a suit doing magic tricks. When we were little This American Life has done over to the public radio stations by PRX, the public radio exchange support for This American Life comes from Sierra Nevada brewing company, family owned, operated and argued over since 1980 proud supporter of thought, whether that's online over the air or in a can or bottle more@sierranevada.com. Thanks as always your programs.

1 (59m 31s):
Co-founder Mr. <inaudible>. You know, I asked him, how is it possible that you only paid 11% in federal taxes last year? It's it's me using leverage and Slack and all sorts of things like that. I'm IRA Glass back next week, but the more stories of This American Life

7 (59m 48s):
<inaudible>

1 (1h 0m 11s):
Next week, weekend This American Life and I was 25 years old. This is how I sounded on the radio and now true to life adventure stories that is not good, which is normal for 25 next week, going to show to kind of commemorate the 25th year that This American Life. So in the air, we have stories of 25 year olds making their way in the world. This next week on the podcast on your local public radio station,