0 (1s):
Okay. This happens to be Chicago, but every city has a place like this, that weird desolate area at the far end of town. We're half mile west of the old abandoned steel mills or half mile north of landfills where methane fires used to burn just south of the auto junkyard, just east of the site of the old city dump, where there was a mountain of raw garbage that would stink up the neighborhood. Whenever the wind would blow in the wrong direction. Everybody down here called it Mount Cassini, the alderman who led the city, put it here,

1 (34s):
We'll notice all these, what would you call it? Tire marks. This street is used as for drag racing year round. Yeah, because it's basically far enough away for the police that they don't don't do anything about it.

0 (52s):
My guide is Charlie Gregerson grew up down here. He shows me where a lake like how you man used to be back in the forties. When he was a kid, you got fishing on a rowboat with his dad. Then the city started filling in huge sections of the leg with garbage incinerator Ash. He come here in the seventies and see bulldozers pushing around the rebel of some of Chicago's great buildings, which had been recently demolished Louise Sullivan, masterpieces, like the stock exchange building and the Garrick theater. This is where they ended up now. Now show me, we're standing here at where were all the buildings being dumped and,

1 (1m 24s):
And that look right here, right here at what was the north end of the dump? I mean, actually we picked the, I picked up a few pieces of a stock exchange ornament right out of, out of the lake. But of course, most of it had been ground right into the dirt because they had bulldozers that would just keep on, they would dump the stuff in piles and the bulldozers would just flatten flattened.

0 (1m 47s):
And so there'll be this like Louis Sullivan, you know, terracotta, ornament, just sticking out, laying out there. Yeah. And so, and so walking around when there's these, you know, pieces of buildings sticking up, I mean, it just seems like it just must have been such a, a strange scene like this apocalyptic, you know, death of a city.

1 (2m 2s):
I remember, I remember seeing one of these big Phoenix columns that I knew had come out of the Garrick theater was just sticking out of the ground. Two of those in the Garrick theater distributed the way to the upper floors that were over the stage. One of those was just sticking out. I've got about a 45 degree angle out of the ground. And at that point, the Garrick had been gone for almost 10 years.

0 (2m 34s):
One's big plans for this area for canals and waterways, Harvard that never really worked out there's zoning maps of the city that shows streets and complete neighborhoods, a whole grid of them that nobody ever got around to building. Instead. Now on top of all, the trash stands, the golf course, Charlie says it from the clubhouse. He gets exactly the same view that he used to get back. When he and his dad took out the robot, it's the same spot. That's where the like, once you can see clear to downtown so far away might as well be another city But today on our program, we have stories from several places like this in the shadow of the city, that weird no man's land where it always feels like secret stuff is happening.

0 (3m 21s):
You know, just out of sight, WBZ Chicago, it's this American life. I'm Eric Glass. I broke them today was first broadcast. A few years ago. It's in three acts, act one, Brooklyn archipelago in that act. Some passengers set sail one day on a three hour tour, a three hour tour and ended up getting lost in the wilderness when fierce or his life on a string of violence. That is just outside a very, very big city back to troubled bridge over water. A guy goes to a remote spot to help people who do not want to be helped. Act three, please. In my backyard, controversy over industrial loaders coming from our factory, odors that for once people want to keep coming, stay with us.

0 (4m 20s):
Brooklyn archipelago. Brad Martin has this story, which takes place on the outskirts of, well, perhaps you've already figured out which city

3 (4m 29s):
Listen. It happens. You go out for a night with your friends and you wind up drunk in your underwear. Soaking wet, covered with blood and shipwrecked on a desert island, all within sight of the empire state building these things happen, or at least they did happen to Alex jar off Alex is 17 years old. He moved to the U S from a small town in the Ukraine when he was nine he's skinny and wears tie-dye t-shirts and unmanageable spray of frizzy blonde hair, and a Valiant, if not altogether, successful starter mustache and well, he can probably introduce himself better than I can. Here's how he responds. When I asked him to state his name for the record, my name is,

4 (5m 8s):
And I love to have very radical experiences in life. And I consider myself to be a psychedelic artistically productive person.

3 (5m 22s):
You're a few other things about Alex. He lives with his cute older girlfriend and is exceptionally patient parents in a small apartment in the Midwood section of Brooklyn. Instead of going to high school, he's enrolled in an internet homeschooling program. He's at work on a science fiction novel and is logged several hundred in flight hours as a student pilot. But most of Alex's time is spent as a guitarist singer and songwriter for his band. You Buffalo. When I went to see them play at a two day Russian rock festival last fall, I learned several things. First. There are many, many ex Soviet immigrants living in Brooklyn. Second. They all very earnestly want rock and third Alex jar off. Whether he's riding on his back on stage or reclining in the dressing room with a beer and a cigarette, it's kind of a superstar Before we get to our story.

3 (6m 15s):
The other key person you'll need to meet is someone who entered Alex's life at a crucial moment. Years ago when Alex first came to the states, Alex had an awkward adjustment. He fought in school and was kind of depressed. He was bored. Then one day Alex was walking along the Brighton beach boardwalk and saw a group of older guys collecting money for something called the Russian punk rock club of America. Older guys, like 25 and 30 years old, Alex was 12. One of the musicians he met that day was Roman God jollof, who immediately took to the young Alex.

5 (6m 43s):
Well, he had this a blink in his eyes. It's sometimes you see an extraordinary person and you know, you kind of know this, you know, he wasn't appeared to us as 12 year old at that moment. At 12 years old, he was writing songs that I was writing at L at 18. And after this, you know, we've been together all the time. We call him producer, you know, what does

3 (7m 6s):
That mean?

5 (7m 7s):
Crucially is means little piglet, little piglet

3 (7m 14s):
Under his new friends to tillage. Alex began walking around an old Bolshevik style hat and trench coat. And his friends gave him books, dust, ASCII, Tolkin guides to Slavic paganism, the beets, and also Robinson Caruso and treasure island. Alex was particularly fond of those And our story today. Our own seafaring tale happens on a boat that Roman owns a 25 foot white sailboat, which Alex likes to refer to as the yacht one. Cool evening. Last may Alex Roman and another friend named Alex, Alex Luba Chomsky decided to take a nice little boat trip and to make a bay, the body of water that wraps around the Southern end of Brooklyn. He was Alex, the three of us

4 (7m 55s):
Excited to just get like 10 gallons of gas. And my friend Roman, he got a bottle of rum and we got two cans of food and we just decided to have a cool trip on the yard. And I started saying, oh, our goal is the open ocean. We let's say to Poland. I told

3 (8m 12s):
Him, Roman had a slightly less ambitious agenda.

5 (8m 15s):
The plan was just to go to the bridge under the Rockaway bridge, then turn around and then come back. It should have taken about 40 minutes. Yeah.

3 (8m 32s):
Things started to go wrong almost immediately. Before they even left the marina. Roman who'd been making headway through the bottle of rum, fell into the water and they had to haul him back in. He was clearly in no shape to drive. This is our,

4 (8m 44s):
He got drunk and he just was babbling something laughing. Like he said, don't go there, don't go there. And he was constantly saying, don't hit the shallows. He wasn't. He was already like, he didn't control the situation. By that time

3 (9m 4s):
As a responsible journalist, I should say for the record that Roman does have one objection to Alex's version of events.

5 (9m 10s):
It wasn't the wrong, by the way, it was a cognac. I don't know why everybody puts wrong. So it was a cornea. You sure it was electric? Yes. It wasn't a trick. I don't know why, how come it's become wrong? It's probably Alex told was wrong, but it was cognac. Not a little bit. It was a lot was out of commission. I was out of commission,

3 (9m 37s):
Alex and Alex had had a few drinks themselves,

4 (9m 39s):
But we were perfectly sober and everything. We might've have had a few drinks, but we were perfectly

3 (9m 44s):
Sober. Neither of you knows how to drive a boat.

4 (9m 46s):
No, no, but we got a hold of it. It wasn't that hard. So we, we knew how to drive it. So it like w didn't seem pretty hard to turn on the motor. You turn the boat. It turns cool.

3 (9m 56s):
Somehow they managed to get out of the marina gun, the engine and take off across the water toward the Marine park bridge in the distance. Once there, they decided to try to sail to Brighton beach and headed toward a landmass, but they got confused and turned back to open water. They drank some rum or maybe cognac one way or another. They drank a lot of it. At one point, they almost crashed into a small island. Gas was running low, but they figured that if worst came to worse, they could always put up the sails and still make it home. Then they got caught in a strong current that turned the boat in circles. The perfect time you would think to begin to panic, or if you're the kind of person who forgets trouble, the moment you're out of it, or even while you're in it, the perfect time to shoot off all the boats, fliers into the water.

3 (10m 39s):
Just for fun. Finally, the series of mistakes reached a critical mass. They had no cell phone. Romans had died when they fell in the water, no flyers, no captain and almost no gas. Even Alex had to admit they were in trouble. We didn't

4 (10m 56s):
No where we were. And then we realized we weren't gonna make it anywhere. And we're like in the morning, we'll figure out what to do. So we went to sleep.

3 (11m 13s):
It was a glorious spring morning on Jamaica bay, sun. Glinting off the water goals, calling overhead as our young pleasure cruisers. Slumbered the light filtering into the boats. Cabin woke Roman and Alex glue Buczynski first. And they came up on deck. What they saw was not good after drifting through the night, the boat had come to rest in the shallows of a small bay, alongside an uninhabited, landmass, stretching out behind them. They could see a long furrow where the tide had dragged them deep into thick mud. And as they stood there blinking and wondering how this might've happened, the wind carried them another 10 feet inland. They could see the skyline of Manhattan on the horizon, the runways of JFK airport, a little closer on signs of in every direction.

3 (11m 55s):
They could even see boats passing by in the distance, but these were too far away to take any notice. It was obvious that they were in a word shipwreck. The hangover sailors sat down to decide what to do. Roman and Glebe Schonski were in favor of waiting to be rescued or for the tide to rise and pull them out again. Meanwhile, Alex was formulating his own plan beyond the island. They were closest to lay another landmass, which Alex was sure led somewhere. His idea was to swim to it, walk to civilization, catch a bus somewhere and bring back help for his friends who as Alex remembers it thought the plan was frankly, idiotic.

3 (12m 43s):
These are islands said, Roman, who in had actually been out on the bay before and was in a position to know, but Alex was sure that Roman was wrong. So Alex stripped to his underwear, he put what he thought he might need in a waterproof plastic mayonnaise jar. He brought his Metro card for the bus. He was going to swim to an expired passport for ID and his favorite Buddhist medallion for lock. He wrapped his clothes in a cellophane blanket and bit his friends farewell. Roman watched him disappear into the surf.

5 (13m 18s):
Of course, it's tried to stop him. I tried to give him reasonable things, but he got a little bit too much excited. So I decided to give him a challenge in life. What should I just knock him down and say stop it? You know, he wanted to swim, you know, he wanted to swim and his wife, he swept,

4 (13m 38s):
I swam really like really violently to get myself warmed up. And by the middle, I got really tired and it was really cold. And I'm like, Aw, it's much worse than I thought. And, and there's birds flying, like, like peeking on me. I'm like other, these crazy, strange far Rockway birds are gonna bite me or, or something, you know? And I, and I got really lucky because my legs suddenly hit the, hit the bottom. And I'm like, and I was so happy when I came out there. I was so cold, but I was happy. Okay. And I was definitely sure there was civilization because toll buildings were right behind the trees. They were like in the bridge was right over there. And I'm like, oh finally. And I, and I, and I was even singing a song walking and the birds were screaming something to me.

4 (14m 22s):
And I'm like, yeah, you know, I, I made it.

3 (14m 25s):
I'm still not sure. I understand why you left your friends though.

4 (14m 30s):
'cause I thought we were going to be stuck there for a really long time. Maybe for the whole day. The only thing I could do is just try to get to civilization. And especially these islands, they were, they were pressuring me to go there. You know, there were so close and I'm like, and I got really bored. You know, I wake up in the morning. I don't want to stay in one spot on the actin, like, and think about how we're going to get saved. Do you know, really want to do something? And I'm like, okay, I'm going to have this, this little adventure. I'm going to go out and try to make it somewhere. And I did,

3 (15m 1s):
Except he didn't Sunni realized that he was indeed on another island with no way off, except to swim backs with the freezing water to rejoin his friends. And he wasn't about to do that. He was alone. So Alex said about doing all the things, a good Castaway should do. He wrote a giant help in the sand for the benefit of the planes landing at JFK, he circumnavigated the island looking for supplies. He found a stick and a piece of red cloth and made a flag to signal passing ships. Then he found several big pieces of styrofoam and some wood and spent an hour or two fashioning a raft. But it collapsed when he sat down on it undeterred, he went back to searching for something that would be his ticket off the island. And then he found it.

3 (15m 42s):
It was the holiday carcass of a ski, or as he calls it

4 (15m 46s):
Scooter, I knew I a hundred percent knew that it was going to float. Although it was pretty badly dug into the sand. And as I was digging out the scooter, something really bad happened. Like there was a pieces of glass, a hundred. I didn't see. I was just digging, digging, and I didn't have any, any shovel or anything. And I cut my finger really bad. I started getting huge amounts of blood was coming out and I had this white t-shirt. It was eventually all in blood.

3 (16m 12s):
Now there was really no way off the island, even by swimming because well, you know, sharks, it was a galling situation and it was made even more maddening because the city was right there.

4 (16m 24s):
I was thinking, how the hell did I get myself into this situation? I never believed that something like this could happen in like in New York city, you know, like in, is such a huge city that you could see sky skyscrapers, like 10 miles away. And on the other side, you can die looking at them, you know, like an old, so I got a little mad at the city of New York. Like I couldn't, I could understand if they had just one payphone there or at least, I don't know, like a button to press to, to know that you're there, you know, By probably six o'clock in the evening, it was getting a little dark.

4 (17m 7s):
All my excitement has fled away and I, I got very cold. So I was like shaking, you know, shivering and no help at all. So I'm like, wow, this is gonna get really bad. Were you

3 (17m 20s):
Hungry? At this point? Also,

4 (17m 22s):
I was very hungry and I was very thirsty and I found limes. I try to open them up, but they tasted so nasty. I couldn't, I didn't even think about eating. Like there was no source of food other than the ducks.

3 (17m 36s):
Ah, yes. The ducks you'll want to hear about the ducks

4 (17m 40s):
That wasn't going to get rescued in the next hour or two. I had a plan to kill a bunch of ducks to get some warm blood, to warm myself, you know? So, so to drink some blood and to cut them open and use them like to warm myself, I had this strange idea about used them as slippers I haven't had after that. I even had this psychedelic idea floating on the ducks, making a rat, a raft out of the ducks, imagine a man with a, with strings attached to the ducks, floating on the water. So it's like this duck writer, you know, Totally normal for a, for a Russian hiker to go and pick up a dog, not just to kill it, but to eat it.

4 (18m 28s):
Like

3 (18m 30s):
I can't, I don't like you could just go over and pick up a doc, like, how did you catch the duck?

4 (18m 36s):
Oh, you just go after it with a stick. I mean, you're a human being, you got more brains than a duck you can catch. But I wasn't really thinking about doing it. I wasn't like fantasizing about killing ducks or anything like that. I was just thinking that if it comes to that, I'll have to, I'll have to get some blood to drink. You know, I know it sounds very violent, but like I was fighting for my life. You know? Like people might laugh when they hear about being trapped on an island. That's so close to civilization and the sharks and the ducks.

4 (19m 17s):
I knew it was, it's a funny situation, but I really got the feeling of what, what is it like being on a desert island? I felt like Robinson Crusoe, you know, I knew what it was like to be by yourself, away from civilization, with no help. And you're facing this huge problem. And the only person that's near you is you and the ghost of your death close by, you know, so I could smell the smell, my smell, my death in the air.

3 (19m 56s):
It turns out that the island where Alex was stranded is called ruffled bar. And it lies only a 20 minute boat ride away from the coast of Brooklyn, far from being traumatized or ashamed of his exploits. Alex wanted nothing more than to go back out there. And from the vantage of my overpriced undersized department, I wanted to see a place where you could be totally alone in the wilderness, smelling your own death in the air while in at least theoretical commuting distance to Midtown Manhattan. So we hired a boat to take us to ruffled bar in truth. I wasn't as completely surprised that some might be to learn that such a place exists. I grew up near the islands of Jamaica bay in a neighborhood called Canarsie. And when I was little, my friends and I would cut through the empty lots near my house to explore the mix of trash and nature on the shoreline.

3 (20m 40s):
It was a place totally apart from the rest of my mostly urban childhood, a secret place that my friends who lived even 10 or 15 blocks away were unaware existed. But then the smaller islands around New York have always occupied a weird place on the edge of the city home to all sorts of enterprise that the citizenry either doesn't know about or prefers not to sit sanitariums and prisons, potters fields and grand failed schemes, roughly bar itself had been the site of several of the ladder since the civil war. And it has the ferry stop, the resort hotel, and even a short-lived dune community of some 40 buildings. We stopped in front of a concrete foundation. Building of some kind was here.

4 (21m 19s):
Th this is cool. This is one of the world war two things here. Like you opened them up and you can go inside like a room in there might be like something like a bunker or something. You see the rope here. And the rope was really old

3 (21m 32s):
And can take a picture of, there are no buildings left here. The island is returned to a deeply wild state. There's a wall of dense brush and a few trees around which sinister Gulzar circle. We pass a flock of ducks. You take one, look at Alex and wisely, move away.

4 (21m 48s):
I'm really thinking about where the heck is the scooter, because it seems like it should be like, as we turn in there, shouldn't be more shoreline here. Maybe, maybe the, yup. That's exactly it. Oh, wow. Then this is the scooter. I tried it here. Let me show you. Maybe, maybe you'll see a glass and stuff. Awesome.

3 (22m 12s):
As we search for Alex's Buddhist medallion that he'd left in the excitement of the helicopter rescue. We walk across a plane of thick, dry grass, Metta down like a carpet underneath. You can hear shells, crunching and mysterious things scurrying around still reminders that we are. In fact, in a major metropolis, we're always close at hand for one thing. There's the garbage piles of plastic and driftwood, but also shoes, steering wheels, prescription bottles, deflated balloons, a washer dryer, several refrigerators, and oddly boats, three perfectly intact ones complete with whores. I hesitate to point these out to Alex though, to be fair. They're probably too heavy for him to drag to the water.

3 (22m 52s):
And then there's this reminder of civilization He was always close enough to the city that simply having a cell phone would have had him tucked safely into bed within half an hour. Alex was finally rescued after seven hours. Thanks to Roman and <inaudible> back on the boat. They were having a final time. A police helicopter was performing drills nearby and apparently no slouches in the cliched Castaway department themselves. They had figured out that they could signal it with a mirror, but why rush?

5 (23m 31s):
We really enjoyed the time thing. There was just, you know, sitting on the boat and, you know, smoking the lust tobacco that we have left and we make a deal that we're not going to eat each other if we're really going to hungry. So basically it was having fun, you know, just a little bit. No, no hustle, no nothing. You know, very quiet, nice weather. Oh, so you,

3 (23m 53s):
So you, you were actually holding off signaling the helicopters while you had a nice day. Yeah,

5 (23m 57s):
Of course. It was a nice day.

3 (24m 4s):
Still as it began to get dark and the cigarettes ran out, the friends thought it was probably time to get a move on a helicopter soon, arrived and airlifted them off the boat. It wasn't until they were safely ashore wrapped in blankets and being fed complimentary cookies than either of them happened to mention that there'd been a third passenger when the helicopter came back for Alex cold exhaustion and dehydration had left him in a trance-like almost wild state. And for him, this island will always be a place where maybe there'd be monster.

4 (24m 35s):
And that was actually when I was here, I was wondering if it's like totally wild place. Are there any animals here other than birds? I was maybe hoping to see some cool animal, like a Badger or something. I dunno. I liked bachelors a lot. Yeah. It was one of my favorite animals. You know, I like bedrooms for the same reason. Probably. I liked the state of Utah where I never was, you know, it's like something that has some kind of a what's it called, like a secret or it's hiding or it's like, they, they attract me in the way that they, they might be hiding something cool from me.

3 (25m 13s):
And that's what after many hours spent with Alex, I find myself liking about him the most, his insistence on finding mystery and adventure everywhere. He looks, it's easy to laugh at that to write it all off as adolescent stupidity. But what if it's more than that? What if it's also a kind of adolescent magic,

4 (25m 30s):
Actually, I'm thinking that this needed to happen? You know, I, I think, I think like if I was a boring person and I would just like, stay at home all the time and be like a nerd, I would never get into this situation. So I think this happened strictly because I was with the right people at the right time, like in the right situation, you know,

3 (25m 51s):
Think about that every step of the way by almost any measure, Alex could not have been more wrong. It takes a special kind of grace to turn that into right time, right place. And how can you help? But envy that who wouldn't rather live in a world where if you believe you should have an adventure, you do. And with each of your mistakes, doesn't narrow your life, but expands it in which the worst thing that could possibly happen is being bored. And you can go to sleep on stormy seas and trust that when you wake up, if you're very lucky, you'll be in Utah. What I'm trying to say is this, Alex does something I never in a million years would have thought possible. He makes me think it might be cool to be a teenager. Again, There's a story that back in the 1830s, a ship carrying $54,000 in Mexican gold was hijacked by pirates outside Jamaica bay.

3 (26m 43s):
And that's the treasure was buried somewhere near ruffle bar on our way, back from the island. I tell Alex this and he listens with great interest. If he found the treasure, he wants to know, could he keep it? Maybe I say, if he didn't tell anybody to which Alex answers precisely as I know he will. The only way he possibly can, he says, but what if I told everybody

0 (27m 14s):
Brett Martin, he's the author of difficult men behind the scenes of a creative evolution today's program. Like I said earlier is a rerun. These days, Alex is 33. He works as a network engineer and he makes music under the name of duck hunter and am inspired by the ducks. In this story, his music is on SoundCloud and Spotify coming up. The thing about Chicago, that nobody outside Chicago believes about Chicago, but that actually is totally and completely true. That's in a minute, I'm just Gaga bubble radio. When our program continues this American life, Myra glass, he tweaked on a program. Of course we choose a theme, bring you a variety of different kinds of stories on that theme today.

0 (27m 55s):
Show in the shadow of the city stories about things happening out of sight for most of us, but very close to us. We've arrived at act two of our program at two troubled bridge over water. So in 2003, on the edge of a city, halfway around the world in Nanjing, China, a man named Chen saw Mr. Chan headed out to a bridge away from his wife and daughter. He was there for 10 hours a day. The he chose is this concrete communist monstrosity four miles long covered with slogans at celebrate the worker. Four lanes of traffic, thousands of pedestrians on the top deck, two train tracks on the lower deck, over the Yangtze river Nanjing, the city of 9 million estimates are fuzzy, but the best guessed back then was that one person per week took their own life.

0 (28m 43s):
Jumping off this bridge, just a heads up by the way that this story is going to discuss suicide. Ms. Chen decided that he wanted to try to keep these people from jumping. And he started to single handle grade first, then with an occasional volunteer, the blog that he kept about this is the most sober taciturn non boastful account of saving lives that you could possibly imagine. Occasionally, Mr. CHAM will insert his feelings, be aware, heavy thoughts. He requires to himself in one entry, how I wished that he will soon be free of this shadow. He says about an old man that he saved in another, the mostly it's just the facts. He has a translation from the Chinese on July 25th at 10 30 in the morning.

0 (29m 24s):
I discovered a woman lying on the bridge railing on a belly weeping. I went to her, she wiped her eyes. She said she was just playing and walked toward the center of the bridge. I went with her and she very ordinarily doubt her cell phone. When I returned at one 10, I discovered she had already climbed up on the bridge railing. I restrained her and forced her onto her bed. She is from nanjing's Gianni district. Her last name is Jo. And today she's 45 years old because her husband surname Lee and 51 years old is violent towards her and mistreats. Her she's not killing herself would be better. However, she is silent when she thinks of her 15 year old son, March 21st, 2010 yesterday at 3:05 PM.

0 (30m 9s):
I saved a young man in the middle of the bridge. He had drunk a lot of alcohol and was planning to jump over the bridge railing I at once, restrained him and dragged him to safety. As we spoke, I learned the situation was actually quite funny. He was thinking about jumping because last year his wife promised to start returning to him 200 Yuan of his monthly 1400 Yuan salary to spend as he pleased. But she had not honored her promise. Yesterday afternoon. He started drinking with his friends and the more he drank the angrier, he got, he believed that killing himself would make her realize that not 1 cent had come to him. He then said another funny thing. His mother's colleagues said that the bridge is haunted and could take one soul. I said, ha ha. It is haunted by drunk ghosts.

0 (30m 50s):
And I took them home. This was the calmest simplest rescue of maiden, recent years. Many of Mr Chen's entries are about the people that he does not save February 15th at five 30 in the morning. The middle-aged man jumped to his death is reported at this time. And he was holding a photograph of his family, August 10th, 2008, Saturday afternoon at 1:40 PM, a young woman, 300 meters from the south end of the bridge, climbed under the bridge railing. I immediately started my moped, but because they accelerated too quickly, the moped leaked oil and ignited. I had to run to her, but when I was 200 meters away, she jumped into the anxiety at the end of each year.

0 (31m 33s):
Mr. Chen does an inventory of how things are going on the bridge. This one is from the end of 2009. He wrote that since he began back in 2003, he'd saved at that point 174. People from killing themselves counseled another 5,150 on the bridge and 16,000 on the phone, 51,000 people had texted him total days, volunteering to that point 646. Mike pattern idiot wrote a magazine article about Mr. Chen. You first heard about him years ago from news reports. I read a bit of his blog in Google translate and felt like he had to meet this man who on his own had decided to rescue so many people and food to China.

6 (32m 13s):
I thought maybe, maybe I'll see him in action. Maybe I'll get to see him save somebody just as backstory. I mean, I actually came, I had come from Cambodia. So I was, I was covering this genocide trials. So I wasn't, I didn't have the most optimistic feelings about humanity. And I thought I was going to find something there, like a hopeful, yeah, I mean, hope perseverance generosity. But as soon as I got on the bridge, I realized that all those notions were completely absurd. I mean, I got instantly depressed. First of all, there's this four mile long bridge and this one man out there, sort of trying to pick out who was going to jump.

0 (33m 1s):
I read in the article at one point, you said, first of all, there's the cars and there's the trains and the bridge is shaking. And then there's just like a sea of people, thousands of people in the rain with umbrellas going back and forth on the bridge. And he's just one, one guy kind of walking up and down.

6 (33m 16s):
And he has this little moped and does a little cruise on the bridge every, every once in a while. But even that is, you know, somewhat as somewhat comical sight to behold, you know, he's on this little broken down moped putt putting through the crowd with his big pair of binoculars around his neck. You know, I sorta thought maybe this isn't even real. Like maybe this blog is a complete figment of his imagination or a fiction that he constructs, you know, once a week. And I just don't see how this guy can save anybody out here.

0 (33m 51s):
And you write in your article, he w he won't really talk to you when, when you're, when you're there in the prayer.

6 (33m 57s):
Yeah. He was really grumpy and unwilling to acknowledge me.

0 (34m 3s):
And so, and so give me a typical exchange between the two of you on the bridge.

6 (34m 11s):
I think I did ask, like, why, why, why are you standing here as opposed to any other spot on this four mile long bridge? And he turned and lifted his binoculars and focused out toward the river and then brought his binoculars down, turned the other way, put his binoculars up and focused in the other direction on the crowd,

0 (34m 39s):
But that's it. He doesn't even respond.

6 (34m 41s):
No, it wasn't like, I was like, I wasn't even there. I was like, I was some ghost and I sort of went through some of this. And then I said, maybe, you know, is there a better time for us to talk? And he said to the translator, you know, I can talk to you at lunch.

0 (35m 1s):
So you go to lunch with them and, and, and what happens there?

6 (35m 5s):
Well, so we were in a little what they call family restaurant near the bridge. And if there are no families present, I mean, it's just workers and they're pretty hard drinking in this case, grain, alcohol and beer. And so we sit down at the table and Mr. Chen has invited a man to join us. Whose name is Mr. Shi? And then we are served some food and Mr. Chen and Mr. Sheikh started really drinking a lot of grain alcohol. And I started to sort of drink with them because it was the convivial thing to do. And then I just realized I I'm going to pass out if I stay with these guys, I'm literally, I was, my head was spinning and I was, you know, the whole room was revolving.

6 (35m 56s):
I just was like, and he was very disappointed. And, and so he sort of said, you know, just we're drinking here. This is what we do at lunch and drinking, loosens the tongue. And so, you know, get with the program. And if you, if you can't, then why don't we, you know, why don't you put on a desk, but then he, you know, it launched, he definitely opened up a little bit more. I mean, he w he wasn't looking at me when he answered questions, but he was answering them. And he was speaking more expansively about life on the bridge. Did he

0 (36m 27s):
Explain why it is that he does this?

6 (36m 30s):
He said he had read a newspaper article about the bridge and about people jumping off the bridge. And, and he himself had grown up in the country outside of Nanjing. So he really related in particular to these people, from the villages who came to the bridge to end their lives and whose lives were hard and full of despair. And he completely understood that.

0 (37m 1s):
So you go back up to the bridge and, and, and he, he putters off and his moped and then,

6 (37m 6s):
And then, yeah, and then he jumped on his moped to go on his rounds and I didn't have anything to do, but I turned to the translator, Susan, and I said, Hey, let's take a little walk out on the bridge. And so we started walking out over the bridge and we're chatting a little bit, and this guy kind of came lurching by, and he, I didn't pay any attention to him, but this guy is about 20 feet, 30 feet ahead of us. And he seems to be climbing up on the railing. And at that point I just yelled, Hey, and then I said to Susan, he's going to go over.

6 (37m 51s):
And I started running for him. And Susan came running, and I had that one little flash of Mr. Chen saying, you know, some of these, some of these people will really take you with them if they can, they're that desperate. And I, I had that little flashlight, this would be a stupid way to die. So be ridiculous if I, yeah, go down with this guy, but it didn't come to that. Because when I got to him, I had my foot on the inside of the, sort of the concrete buttress. And I tried to flip them back toward me.

6 (38m 33s):
And he was completely limp. He was like a bag of sawdust. He, he just flipped right back onto me. And I hadn't even really pulled him that hard. It's hard to explain, but like, when I think of it, I just get, I'd have to say just, I have just goosebumps all over my body right now,

0 (38m 58s):
Because,

6 (39m 1s):
Because, because he, he was going to kill himself and because he didn't.

0 (39m 16s):
So did you feel good?

6 (39m 22s):
No, I didn't feel good. I felt like kind of nauseous. I felt like, wow, you know, they're there every week somebody actually does this thing. And even if we were to clone Mr. Chen, and there were 200 of them out there, they'd probably still want a week. Someone would figure out how to do it. And then like, oh my God, who's coming next. You know?

0 (39m 50s):
And so it's a Mr. Chan comes back, right?

6 (39m 53s):
Yeah. Well, it took Mr. Chen a while to come back on his moped. But when he came, when he showed up the crowd sort of parted, and I was holding onto this man whose name was fan ping. And he said to me, step away, which I thought was a really bad idea because we were standing right next to the railing, but he had such command of the situation and all the nuances of the situation that I just stepped away. I just let go and stepped away. And, and then he said, I want to take your picture. Which seemed like, you know, I didn't even understand what that was about. You take the picture of the guy.

6 (40m 33s):
Yeah. So he pulls out his cell phone. Well, the camera takes a picture. And then he says, and now I think I should punch you in the face wholly. And then he said, you call yourself Chinese. How dare you? How dare you call yourself Chinese, come up on this bridge with the intention of killing yourself today. You know, you, you are somebody's son. You know, how dare you. I am going to punch you in the face. I'm going to punch you right now. And the crowd of course is like crushing in because they think there's going to, I think he's going to punch him,

0 (41m 15s):
Sitting here, like with my mouth open as saying,

6 (41m 21s):
So he kind of takes another step in closer. And fan ping says, look, I'm only doing this because my father was in the red army and he's lost all of his disability and there's no way for him to live anymore. And I'm a lousy son, cause I can't provide for him. And all of our documents burned in a fire. And without those documents, we, we can't get any help. And Mr. Chen says, there's nothing worth this. You know, there's no problem that we can't solve. And then he moves in a little bit closer and he touches his arm to sort of holding him by the elbow with like his right hand.

6 (42m 3s):
But Mr. Chen says, I, I, you know, I think w I think I can help you. I don't, I don't like this. I don't like what you're doing here. This isn't the way to solve anything. And at that point they have each other's word that they're going to meet on Monday morning and Mr. Chen's office,

0 (42m 21s):
Mike patternicity. He first wrote about meeting Mr. Chen for GQ magazine. There's a documentary out there about Mr. Chen and the bridge called the angel of Nanjing. If you or somebody, you know, might need help. The national suicide prevention lifeline is available 24 7 at 1 802 7 3. Talk again, that's 1 802 7 3 8 2 5 5.

2 (42m 46s):
Well, June <inaudible> <inaudible> <inaudible> <inaudible>

0 (43m 51s):
Accurately. Yes. In my backyard. Now this story about some of the mysterious things happening on the edges of the city and the shadow of the city, right? Under our noses. And, but this story, in some context, we're going to turn now to Jorge. Just, you may remember Jorge, he's done some stories for our program. He says that when you move to a new city, you cannot get into the regular conversations that everybody else gets into. He found this out a little while. Back when he did the one thing that everyone in Chicago agrees is the very worst thing that anybody can do. He moved to New York, all new Yorkers.

7 (44m 23s):
And I talk about is what subway train to get to take, to get from point B. And it goes on and on. And you can't say anything. You can't be like, you know, they discovered a 10th planet and they'll be, well, you would take the DMZ to get to the dead planet. It's inescapable. And when you, that conversation finally Peters out it somehow, and it doesn't fail. It turns into a conversation about cell phone reception. You can't get into the, you can't get into the conversation. You don't know where the dead spots are. So, so you can't do any small talk. So what happens is the small talk becomes, oh, you just moved to New York. Where are you from? Oh, you're from Chicago. How do you like New York? How do you like New York?

7 (45m 4s):
Everybody wants to know how you like New York. Cause they want you to say new. York's the greatest place that I've ever been to. And I've, I've burned all of my connections to anywhere that I've ever been before, because I love it so much here. When in fact people would say, so how do you like New York, Nick? Well, you know, I like it. It's big it's stuff, but I, I really like Chicago, you know, oh really? What's Chicago. Like Chicago is this wonderful dreamland where there's a bar on every corner. And you know, the bridge is smelled like chocolate, and then you'd pretty much have a silence and the ice and your glass would clink a couple of times. And then they'd say the bridge of smelling chocolate.

7 (45m 44s):
And then I describe how wonderful it is that the bridges would smell, smelled like chocolate. And this is something that people in New York have never, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever believed. But if you get up early in the morning and it's sort of quiet out and you go to the right bridge and it's just that sort of magic twinkling hour where the sun's coming up and there's, you're in a big city, but nobody's around every now and again, they smell like brownies.

0 (46m 19s):
Yeah. Well, that's actually true. That's very, very true. I can say it's, it's true. And the reason why is because there's, there's a chocolate plant on the west side that spews, that spews the smell of

7 (46m 29s):
Chocolate. Yeah. The smell of magic to say something, to say like the bridge smells like chocolate, it doesn't convey like what actually happens. What actually happens is that when you're walking across a bridge and you're dodging cars and it's a bridge over a dead river in the middle of it, part of town that is industrial and totally unnatural, you're you, you just sort of walk into this cloud of like the sweetest memory you have of cookies being made as a child, your sweetest childhood memory. You can walk into that and you can walk into it by surprise in the middle of the day in the middle of a city

0 (47m 11s):
That now, you know, that, that, that all this is ending, right?

7 (47m 15s):
I know, I know it's like a thousand little stabs in the heart. Thanks

0 (47m 20s):
To the federal government.

7 (47m 22s):
It's like a million little stabs in the heart.

0 (47m 25s):
What happened is this? Somebody complained about the chocolate smell. They complained to the environmental protection agency and the federal government never responsive to even a single complaint from any of its citizens, anywhere in the country, leapt into action. They sent inspectors to the bomber chocolate company, which has been making chocolate bars and other goodies on Chicago's west side, since 1939 inspectors found that too much cocoa dust was going into the air more than is legal under federal standards. That plant installed filtering equipment. In fact, they say they'd been planning to get that equipment in place even before the EPA dropped by in any case, fewer cocoa particles in the air, it means less delicious chocolate aroma.

8 (48m 5s):
Yeah. It was kind of curious to think of like, you know, one small chocolate factory has, you know, somebody complained and they went out there and looked in the, yes, there's a problem. They we're going to fix it. But yet, you know, you have thousands of times where it's happened at the power plants and nothing's happened

0 (48m 22s):
Brian or Miszewski director of environmental health programs for the American lung association in Chicago. And as he points out, it has been widely reported here. The Illinois attorney General's office has documented over 7,600 violations, similar to the chocolate company violation at six coal plants in Illinois in the last six years. And the EPA has never gone after any of those coal plants. Okay.

8 (48m 45s):
Let's let's step back a minute because chocolate factories are not a major source of this fine particle pollution. When you look at power plants, they're responsible for about a quarter of the problem.

0 (48m 56s):
And chocolate is chocolate, a quarter of the problem as well.

8 (48m 59s):
Oh no, no, no. I it's probably, you know, far, far, far less than 1%. Oh,

0 (49m 7s):
Now there's a quote that you gave where you used an animal metaphor that I've seen quoted widely in a million articles that I've just would like to you to repeat here for our listeners.

8 (49m 16s):
Oh, I don't know if I can. I actually, if this is the wolves in the ant thing, I actually got San Francisco animal activists after me for that thing saying that wolves are not dangerous to humans.

0 (49m 30s):
That being said, You will, I'll say it. If you, if you don't feel like you can, you, you said that, hold on for a second. I have it here. You, you said that the EPA, the EPA was doing with this chocolate factory and ignoring the coal plants, you said, quote, it's like crushing an ant. When there's a pack of wolves around then claiming you have saved people from harm.

8 (49m 57s):
How about if we say, all right, you know, it it's like crushing an ant.

0 (50m 5s):
Don't be scared of that animal

8 (50m 6s):
Rights people. No, no. I'm just trying to think I was going to be sharks instead. Nobody likes sharks.

0 (50m 10s):
I just think this is just like my entire relationship to government right now. It could be summed up by this story. Okay. There's all these things that are throwing particles in the air. And the only one I like is the one they're getting rid of.

8 (50m 23s):
Yeah. And you know, that's my frustration as well.

0 (50m 26s):
Federal EPA, hasn't been talking to the press about the chocolate factory. When I called the Illinois state EPA, the manager of compliance and enforcement for the bureau of air, a cheerful public servant named Julie Armitage informed me that there has been a misunderstanding. Yes. She said the coal plants had bounced out too many particles, 7,600 times. But she, these times was very, very short at the least a momentary spike. At the most six minutes on each one was a blip. She said, automatic monitoring equipment is going 24 hours a day, taking readings at of all the blips per year. And you get 211 blips per plant per year. Meaning that well, over 99% of the time, the plants are in compliance with the law.

8 (51m 8s):
Yes. Taken out of context. It appears to be a very bad situation, put into context. It's, it's virtually a non-issue.

0 (51m 20s):
And as for the fact that now there may be less chocolate smell in Chicago,

8 (51m 26s):
You know, I, I'm not really in a position. Would I prefer to not have had the hullabaloo that broke loose? Yes.

0 (51m 35s):
And you don't feel any sort of twinge as an environmental regulator. Who's here to make our world a better place as you are. That that could be the upshot of the whole thing.

8 (51m 44s):
That's the chocolate aroma

0 (51m 45s):
Disappears. Yeah. You don't feel any sort of twinge if that would've happened.

8 (51m 50s):
Well, you know, unfortunately my job here is to ensure compliance with environmental laws and regulations and

0 (52m 2s):
Wherever the sentence is going, this is exactly not the answer. We, the people of Illinois, when I hear you don't want to hear about laws and regulations.

8 (52m 9s):
Well, but you know, they're, they're there for a reason. And for the most part, you know,

0 (52m 13s):
Everybody was finding the rules. She says, the feds inspected just like they're supposed to bombers was in fact emitting too much chocolate. End of story. And then in the months after I had the conversation with her, the EPA says Blummer fixed. The problem. Stopped spewing particles into the air that violated the law and good news incredibly what they're emitting still smells like delicious chocolate

9 (52m 41s):
Creamy on the way to the train station in the wind. And naves comes to the front of a cremate. No one knows that I have it so small chocolate with the stringy sugar soft and sticky note

0 (53m 2s):
Today's episode of our show is produced by Diane Cook, Robin Semyon and myself with Alex Bloomberg, Jane Marie, Sarah Canuck, Amy O'Leary and Lisa Pollack, senior producer for this episode was Julie Snyder production help from Sam Hallgren Thea challenger, Seth, when Tommy Andreas and BA Parker music from Jessica Hopper production up one, today's rerun from Matt Tierney and Chloe Weiner special. Thanks today to Brett ween of the American foundation for suicide prevention, our website, this American life.org, where you can stream a for 750 episodes of our show for absolutely free. This American life is delivered to public radio stations by PRX, the public radio exchange. Thanks as always to our programs. Co-founder Mr. <inaudible> asked me to tell you he can kick the ass of anybody in Manhattan, Brooklyn, Queens, the Bronx.

0 (53m 47s):
And this is

7 (53m 48s):
Something that people in New York have never, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever been.

0 (53m 53s):
I believed I'm glass back next week with more stories of this American life,

9 (53m 58s):
The next time I'll buy a galaxy smooth ride, your sweet space, slightly on the tongue. Very much the joyous intergalactic journey through Mariemont of chocolate, pure undescribable. C-section.