0 (0s):
This podcast is supported by you, MBC. You know why your goals matter at UMB BC. We know how to help you achieve them. If you're ready to create and solve to become a leader in fields, such as public policy, data, science, biology, and more we're ready to help your journey is important. So choose a university that will embrace it. Find out how you MBC makes all the difference. Learn more@umbbc.edu slash how

1 (31s):
It's this American life from WBZ Chicago, I'm Eric Glass. And here at our radio show, we were talking about romantic comedies. Now they don't get a lot of respect. I think it was maybe because the bad ones, every part of them just feels too obvious, you know, a couple meats, but they hate each other. At first, they go through some things that make them we're in some important lesson about themselves, you know, from the very beginning of they're gonna end up together and then no surprise they do when it's not done well, it's all too obvious and tired and you can feel the gears working in the thing. One of the producers on our show, Neil, he wholeheartedly really loves romantic comedies has favorites that he's watched over and over dozens of times, he wants collaborated with the producer of sleepless in Seattle on a romcom script that never got made.

1 (1m 15s):
He's all kinds of thoughts about them. And he realized this thing about romcoms and what's so satisfying about the good ones they really think is true.

2 (1m 23s):
I used to say that it was just watching, just like closeups of two beautiful people and being funny and clever and witty to each other.

1 (1m 32s):
Yeah.

2 (1m 32s):
Being their sort of best selves or sometimes we're ourselves, but then eventually their best selves. And that was kind of enough for me.

3 (1m 40s):
And why shut me out. You know, what happens to people shut everybody out,

4 (1m 44s):
Peaceful lives?

5 (1m 45s):
No, they fester.

1 (1m 48s):
That's Meg, Ryan and Kevin Kline with the fake Fran track signs in the movie, French kiss

5 (1m 56s):
Inside fester and rut. I've seen it happen. You'll become one of those punch bag, lonely old men sitting in the corner of a crowded cafe, mumbling to yourself, my ass twitching, your <inaudible>.

2 (2m 14s):
If there's a simple thing that resonates for me, it's that in the best of these movies, you get to see two people get along in a way that is Great.

1 (2m 23s):
It's just like nice to see that part of

2 (2m 25s):
People. Yeah. Yeah. And I think it's also, I think if you're projecting at all, it's the idea that you can like be that connected to someone or receive someone that well, when you see it, you're like, oh yeah, that would be nice. That's why I like the ones where people spend a lot of time together.

1 (2m 40s):
That's key for Neil and Neil's personal ranking of these films, which has the 2009 film, the ugly truth at the very, very bottom. The three Ron comes into it at the very top, like the tussled hair above Hugh Grant's head, our French kiss two weeks notice, which is a real estate romcom. And his very favorite, lots of people's favorites when Harry met Sally. And they're all at the top of the list for this very reason, because of how much time the couple spends together talking Take when Harry met Sally,

2 (3m 10s):
The thing that I like about it is that at least you get a vision of what their relationship actually is because they spent 12 years together before they finally get together. So you get to see real fights. You get to see their relationship grow, you get to see their personalities clash. And so they actually have a chance to fall in love by talking to each other, as opposed to in romantic comedies now, or like where there's the montage and music playing. And then you're just supposed to come out of that thinking they're in love. They actually spend time with each other. Like there's a sequence of scenes in when Harry met Sally where they're just getting along and they're just talking on the phone.

5 (3m 47s):
Well,

9 (3m 48s):
You're sleeping.

5 (3m 50s):
No, I was watching Casablanca

9 (3m 51s):
Channel

5 (3m 52s):
11.

9 (3m 53s):
Thank you. Got it. Then you're telling me you would be happy with Victor Laszlo then with every blogger.

5 (3m 59s):
When did I say

9 (4m 0s):
That? When we drove to New York,

5 (4m 3s):
I never said that I would never have said

9 (4m 4s):
That I'd find having to go away, Even sleeping.

5 (4m 9s):
Why?

9 (4m 10s):
Because I haven't been sleeping.

2 (4m 13s):
I think if I was dating someone who hated when, when Harry met Sally, I don't know that I could date them. Like, I don't know that I could, like, if you're not interested in like the relationship between Harry and Sally, I don't really understand what kind of person wow. That's not to say that you're a bad person. It just means, I don't think I understand you.

1 (4m 38s):
Okay. Romantic comedies are contrived. The people are way more clever and way better in the real life. The stories are full of things. That would be ridiculous. And sometimes, maybe even on the Stackery side, but they haven't any of us, but this totally artificial forum, when it works, reminds you of what it feels like to be in love. And if somebody who wants to listen to what you say and who says things that you want to listen to. And so today we're devoting our whole show to romcoms today's episode, by the way, as a rerun and each of our acts today, we found a story that reminds us of some aspect of a movie romcom. And yes, we did go on a search for stories of people running sprinting down the street in real life, in an urgent rush to tell someone that they love them, Stay with us.

1 (5m 29s):
Meet cute. So the first thing around come needs is for the couple to meet in an appealing way, the neat, cute.

2 (5m 36s):
The MICU is supposed to make you feel like no matter what happens, these two people should be together.

1 (5m 41s):
There are so many ways to do this. And the wedding planner, Matthew McConaughey saves Jennifer Lopez from a runaway dumpster that is rolling down the street. And pretty woman Richard Gere gets lost in a very fancy car. And Julia Roberts gives him directions bringing a baby. Katherine Hepburn picks up Carrie Grant's golf ball on a golf course. Reality bites would own a rider through us, her cigarette and to Ben Stiller's car. And Neil's favorite when Harry met Sally,

2 (6m 6s):
The thing about when Howard battalion has an extended meet queue, which I like they take a road trip from Chicago to New York. And so they're kind of meeting for several hours. And from the very beginning, it's contentious because Harry has all these theories about relationships that she finds like crazy. And off-putting

9 (6m 27s):
What I'm saying is, and this is not a come on in any way, shape or form is that men and women can't be friends because the sex part always gets in the way.

5 (6m 38s):
That's not true. I have a number of men, friends, and there was no sex involved. Yes I do. Yes I do. You're saying I'm having sex with these men without my knowledge.

9 (6m 48s):
No. What I'm saying is they all want to have sex with you.

5 (6m 52s):
They do not do it

9 (6m 53s):
To,

5 (6m 54s):
They do not

9 (6m 55s):
Do to,

2 (6m 56s):
I think it sets up the chemistry. Like it sets up that there's something about them that you want to root for,

1 (7m 3s):
Make you to do happen in real life. But for this first day in today's show, we have a piece of fiction story where the MICU plays an important role in the story. As a turning point for one of the characters, the story is by Simon, rich, the actor, Daniel Radcliffe. Write it for us.

10 (7m 18s):
I don't understand professor Zander Kaplan said while his girlfriend's sobbed into a pillow, I thought you liked two lips. I do. She said, it's just you get them for me every year. It's starting to get a little impersonal. I mean, this time you didn't even include a card. Zonda winced. Her reasoning was sound. I apologize. He said, I obviously made an error in judgment. He tried to take her hand, but he pulled it out of reach. Do you remember what I did for your birthday? She said, I got you. That new bonds and Bernie, you wanted, I knit you a pair of wool socks. So your feet wouldn't get cold in the lab.

10 (7m 59s):
You never make that kind of effort for me. All you do is think about yourself. That's incorrect. Zonda said, what about MLA diem? It took me nine months to synthesize that element. And I named it after you, you were going to synthesize that element. Anyway. Emily said you needed it for your secret project, that silver org thing in your lab and the lady, it wasn't about me. It was about you. I mean, for God's sake, you wouldn't even tell me what it does. Zonda side. Is there anything I can do to make it up to you? Emily blinked back some tears. I don't know. I mean, it's not like you can just go back in time and get me a different present Zander's expression, brightened, wait there.

10 (8m 46s):
He said, I'll be right back. Zonda, hurried down the hall, crept into his laboratory and locked the door behind him. His time machine was right where he left it. He climbed inside the silver orb and flicked on the power switch. His plan was simple. Travel back in time to this morning, find a new gift for Emily and bring it to the present. But there were a couple of risks. And that was a chance. For example, that using the machine would cause the universe to explode. He'd never tested the thing out before. There was also no guarantee that he would be able to find a good present. He only had enough MLA diem to fuel five minutes of time travel that didn't give him a lot of wiggle room.

10 (9m 28s):
Wherever he went, he would have to shop efficiently. Zonda was usually a pretty good problem solver he had, for example, invented a time machine. But quantum physics and nuclear hydraulics were trivial compared to the rigors of gift shopping. He massaged his temples. Trying to remember if Emily had dropped any hints lately, he vaguely recalled her staring at a vase in crate and barrel, but that place was full of vases. There was no way he'd be able to pick out the right one. He was trying to remember the name of her favorite perfume. When a thought entered his head, maybe he was thinking too small. His machine could transport him to any time in place in human history. Why go back a few hours when he could go back a few centuries, he knew Emily loved Shakespeare.

10 (10m 13s):
She'd written her senior thesis on one of his tragedies. Why not travel back to the globe theater and swipe her an original script. It wouldn't be too difficult. He reasoned all he'd have to do was dash backstage and grab one. It would be the most impressive gift she'd ever received in her life. But which tragedy had Emily written a thesis about? He knew it was one of the king ones. Richard. There's something Charles, that something where there are a bunch of those. What if he got it wrong? It was too risky. There was always jewelry. He knew the general construction dates for king Tut's tomb. He could park in front of the pyramid, run inside and snatch a Jade stone. The entered the coordinates and was about to push the lever.

10 (10m 54s):
When he started to second, guess himself again, buying women. Jewelry was always Chancey. Emily had very specific tastes. And what if she didn't like Jade? It wasn't like you'd be able to go back and return it. He thought back to the night they met, he was finishing his PhD at the time. And his lab had closed early because of Easter. He'd stuffed his papers into his briefcase and shuffled through the rain to the hundred and 16th street station. It was 4:05 AM. And the platform was deserted except for Emily. It had been several days since Sandra's last conversation with a human. And when she started to speak to him, he felt the stirrings of a panic attack, but Emily's friendly.

10 (11m 35s):
Smile managed somehow to put him at ease. She was awfully cheerful. Given her circumstances, a Metro card had expired. She said, and the machines were broken. She'd been stranded for over 20 minutes. Would he be willing to sell her a ride SONDA nodded and watched as she routed around in her purse for some cash to him back, it was a moment or two before it occurred to him that she had given him the chance to be Gallant. You don't have to reimburse me. He said, I'll swipe you in for free. She thanked him enthusiastically. And then shockingly wrapped her arms around his torso. Zonda. Wasn't used to physical contact. And although the hug was brief, it caused his entire body to tingle.

10 (12m 17s):
From head to toe, there was a startling sensation like walking through an electrically charged field. He still felt that way. Whenever she touched him, Zonda was an atheist and believed fiercely and random causality. But by the end of their shared subway ride, he was sure he'd experienced a miracle. This wonderful person had shown up out of nowhere and given him a chance at love and in return, he given her three years of misery. He thought about all of his Saturday nights at the lab, ignoring her calls, making excuses.

10 (13m 2s):
He thought about the way she cried. When he handed her the two lips, how could he make up for three years of romantic inaptitude with a single birthday present. He closed his eyes and concentrated the hat to be a right answer. Cleopatra's crown Joan of arc sought a baby dinosaur. What was the greatest thing? He could give her the very best present in the world. It was the hardest problem he'd ever attempted to solve. But then as always, the solution came to him.

10 (13m 45s):
It's on a parked his time machine by the hundred and 16th street station and dashed into the subway. It was 3:45 AM. A little over three years in the past, Emily was standing by the turnstile swiping and re swiping her expired MetroCard. He took a deep breath and approached her. Let me guess he said expired Metro card. She chuckled how'd you know, I had a hunch. Come on, I'll swipe you through. Oh, that's okay. She said, I'll just go to the machine upstairs. Or the machines are all broken. He said, you better catch this one. He said, the next one won't come for another 20 minutes before she could protest.

10 (14m 25s):
He took out his Metro card and swiped her through the turnstile. Just smiled back at him with confusion. Aren't you coming? She asked us the train pulled into the station, Zandra averted, his eyes. He worried that if he looked at her, he would start to cry. I need to take a different train. He said, well, at least let me pay you for that. That's all right. He said his voice breaking. It's a present. He was about to turn away. When she leaned over the turnstile and hugged him, it was exactly as he remembered it.

10 (15m 5s):
Her long brown hair brushing softly against his neck, his entire body tingling with warmth. Thanks. She said, He tried to say, you're welcome. But the words got caught in his throat. He waved goodbye. As he boarded the train, then he marched out of the station alone.

1 (15m 32s):
Daniel Radcliffe raiding the shirt's story. The present by Simon rich from Rich's book, man seeking woman radical is also the star of Simon Rich's TV show, a miracle workers, which is currently filming its fourth season. Back to the obstacle.

2 (15m 54s):
The, the main body of most romantic comedies is there's something. There's something or a group of things. Keeping them apart. There's always obstacles that are keeping the two, these two people who are faded to be together or apart,

1 (16m 7s):
The obstacles can be bigger. Widow. Tom Hanks is over his dead ex-wife and sleepless in Seattle and Notting hill guy falls in love with somebody who is too famous for him and Bridget Jones. He's going after the wrong guy, which of course is probably to prejudice. And I don't know so many films. It's one of the most common. And when Harry met Sally, they each your improv with other people for a lot of the film. But the real obstacle is that the friends, which in this film as a special meaning, because if you remember when Harry met Sally on that car ride originally, he told her that he didn't think that men and women could ever just be friends. So this is new for him. Billy crystal has a scene in the film with a sidekick character, a best friend played by Bruno Kirby, where they talk about those

11 (16m 48s):
Relationship.

9 (16m 49s):
What do you mean

11 (16m 50s):
You enjoy being with her to find her attractive and you're not sleeping with you, afraid to let yourself be happy.

9 (16m 58s):
Why can't you give me credit for this? This is a big thing for me. I never had a relationship with a woman that didn't involve sex. Feel like I'm growing.

1 (17m 6s):
We went out looking for a real life, couple of facing some obstacle that kept them being together. And that's not actually very hard to find, but one of our producers on a baker heard about a couple of where the obstacle that confronted them once the relationship got going, it was pretty unusual. It was a couple of, one of her friends was in years ago, quick warning to everybody. Who's listening to this podcast version of our show. There are some words that we have and beeped and this and other stories in the program. If you don't want to hear that, maybe listening with kids, you can get a beep diversion at our website, this American life.org. Anyway, here's on them.

12 (17m 38s):
My friend, Michelle Butoh is one of the most audacious ballsy people. I know. And she brings this attitude into all aspects of her life, including relationships. This is a story about her and her boyfriend. It starts in the nineties when she was 18, going to college, living in Miami and as college students do, she adopted a new cool persona for herself. One that wore dark lipstick, cargo pants, and danced in reggae clubs. Every weekend

13 (18m 5s):
I loved dancing. Like I want to be a fly girl on in living color. I definitely would have been like Snoop. Dogg's like video ho if I had the chance. Yeah. And yeah, I was out one night at a teeny bopper club. And that's where I saw him. I remember there, the smoke machine was working. It felt like we were at a bar mitzvah somewhere in Jersey. And literally when the smoke cleared, I'm like, who is that tall boy with the khakis on and the big old chain and the curly hair. How do I talk to him? And I kinda just sort of like inched my way over to him on the dance floor.

13 (18m 45s):
I remember like doing this move where we're like, we both sort of like roll into each other's body and I can get like, get a whiff of his Jakarta war. And I was like, <inaudible> and like, my heart was beating so fast. I could hear it. And I'm like, oh my God, this is what love is. I feel like a Puerto Rican, Molly, Ringwald

12 (19m 7s):
Lincoln, any good first encounter. There were magical coincidences.

13 (19m 10s):
We were walking out to the parking lot and we realized we both had the same car Mazda proteges, both leased by our moms with

12 (19m 17s):
That a moment where you were like, this is fate. I mean, not only did I go to this club.

13 (19m 21s):
Oh, definitely. I'm like what? Like out of all the cars in the world, out of all the dance clubs, you and me,

12 (19m 30s):
He was 18 too. But he seemed to really grown up. He,

13 (19m 34s):
He worked at best buy selling DVDs and he was also a drug dealer. And in my mind, I was like, oh my God, he's so cool. He's so good at math, like he counts so quickly

12 (19m 49s):
In case you're thinking drug dealer, red flag, he was barely a drug dealer. He dealt weed. Nearly every woman I know has dated a weed dealer. They quickly got serious. And he was Michelle's first big relationship. He was funny, smart. They had good banter. And he was this incredibly accepting person, made her feel comfortable, confident, and about her body and about sex, which she'd never really felt before. She imagined a real future with him.

13 (20m 18s):
The plan was, I mean, looking back on it, it seems so basic, but just to be with each other and to have fun and to have kids and to go out to dinner after our movie on a Friday night, you know, all of garden cheesecake factory just kind of exist in a really cute apartment with beige carpet and white blinds. Yeah. The American dream

12 (20m 48s):
Fast forward, three years into the relationship. Their lives are totally entwined. Their families are close. They vacation together. It was that point of no return place in a relationship where you're just like, here it is, this is it. But there was this one thing that seems sort of off a lack of photographic evidence. No pictures of himself as a kid specifically, no school pictures, no prom picture. Even his mom didn't have any shots of him. It was just weird. And then one night

13 (21m 19s):
I had a dream that he called me up. He told me that he never graduated high school. And when I called him the next day and I was like, I had this crazy dream. He just started crying. I could just hear him gently sobbing. And he's like, not only did I not graduate high school, I don't even know how to read. I'm just like how, like I thought, I knew you like what? Like haven't we read something together.

12 (21m 48s):
Their entire relationship flashed before her eyes. One moment after another, suddenly it all made sense.

13 (21m 56s):
And I was going back, you know, I realized like, oh my God, this is why we go to the same restaurant. We would go to the same restaurant and he'd ordered the same thing because he couldn't read the menu. And he liked to go to restaurants that had pictures of the food. You know, I would write him poems and stuff and he's like, read them to me. You know, it's better when I hear it from you never want to go through his mail. I had to help them

12 (22m 24s):
When you stop and think about it. The fact that he'd been able to navigate the world convincingly and keep this from Michelle for over three years, it was an incredible feat. He must've been covering this up constantly

13 (22m 38s):
When he told me why he didn't know how to read. It just made my heartbreak even more. I mean, his dad died when he was young. And so his mom had to work three jobs and he was depressed and just dropped out of the fifth grade. And nobody ever noticed his mom didn't want to deal with it. And you know, I'm not judging because it must've been so hard for her. The only thing that kept going through my mind, I remember was I want to save you. I want to help you. I want to make this better. You know, we're going to get back on track to what we had planned.

12 (23m 17s):
She was not going to allow this obstacle to push them apart. She jumped into action. This was before you could Google everything. So Michelle went to the library and did research on adult literacy. She broke it down into manageable steps and wrote out a timeline for him.

13 (23m 33s):
My game plan for him, it was, I had a list of places he could go to, to go to nice school, a therapist. He could talk to easy adult reading, books, tips, and tricks. It was like a whole sort of like care package of like how to just take it on. And he was like really overwhelmed by it. And I was like, okay, this is a really big deal. I get it.

12 (23m 58s):
Michelle's dyslexic. And her boyfriend didn't have a learning disability, but still she could empathize with how hard it can be to read. And at first Michelle's boyfriend was totally on board with the plan. But after a year of Michelle offering him solutions, he still hadn't taken any action. It just seemed like he didn't want to. He got around the world just fine. Without reading. She started realizing, oh, wait, his illiteracy was a way bigger problem for her than it was for him. And it really started pushing them apart.

13 (24m 29s):
I stopped being his girlfriend and sort of became his coach or his or his mom. And it wasn't fun for either one of us. I tried every tactic I was patient. I was nice. I was stern. And then I like kind of backed off. I'm like, whatever he needs to do on his own time,

12 (24m 51s):
It started to bleed its way into every moment they shared together. Like she could never fully relax anymore. Even when they were happy. She'd snap herself out of it and think, wait, no. Now we're forgetting that there's this huge looming problem. And we've got to fix it before everything can be okay. She started to resent him.

13 (25m 11s):
We don't even laugh anymore. We're not even like holding hands. Like we used to. We're not even having sex. Like we used to simply because you're not even going to this class. Like if he just went to a class, I would just be so happy.

12 (25m 26s):
Did you feel like if you love me, you will learn to read.

13 (25m 32s):
Absolutely. I mean, is that weird? But I totally felt like that. I was like, who's gonna read books to our kids at night. Look, you got to get it together. This was like the vain of my existence. So I was like, and I couldn't really talk to anyone about it. Cause how embarrassing. Cause I didn't want to, I didn't want my friends to think less of him, you know? And I wanted him to still feel like a man. So I just kind of like carried this by myself.

13 (26m 12s):
And at some point I just looked at myself and I was like, you got to go. But even then it was just like, how do I leave somebody when they're down?

12 (26m 22s):
Well, in a sense, it actually like it made the relationship last longer because everything became about him reading. And so if you could just crack that or fix that, then maybe it would work out.

13 (26m 37s):
Oh my God, what are you Zack to fill with tits? Yeah. I mean, I feel like I always live like that. If I could just lose those 20 pounds, if I could just have a clean house all the time, I could do everything I really want to do on my list. And so yeah, there was that, you know, if we could just get past this, then we'll, you know, live the life we're supposed to live.

12 (27m 4s):
That's the promise of an obstacle. You feel like all you have to do is conquer it and you get your happy ending. How would it play out in a romcom?

13 (27m 15s):
The obstacle being his illiteracy. Yeah. Ooh, okay. Boom. He learns how to read. He writes like a New York bestseller like situation. It becomes a movie. Channing Tatum plays him. Lisa Barnett. He plays me and we live happily ever after with like a bunch of mixed children in a huge apartment with beige carpet by cheesecake factory.

12 (27m 40s):
Amazing. See, I was imagining that he would like greet you at the airport with like a sign that he had handwritten himself. That was like, Michelle, I can read

13 (27m 53s):
No, my God. And

12 (27m 54s):
You'd see it and he'd start crying and you'd be like, ah, and he's worked so hard behind your back. Secretly going to night school the whole time. Oh

13 (28m 4s):
I know. And so you just like, fuck a stripper.

12 (28m 10s):
Okay. She wasn't a stripper, but she was sleeping with Michelle's boyfriend, Michelle suspects that the entire time she was struggling to get him to read, he was cheating on her. She was so focused on the obstacles she thought they were facing. She totally missed it. Of course, as rom comes go. The thing missing from this story is calm. At least until Michelle started doing stand-up and figured out how to tell it onstage. When did you decide like, this story is funny, I'm going to put it in my act like, cause it's actually like really sad, but

13 (28m 52s):
Yeah. You know, most of my, my, the first joke I ever wrote was about him.

12 (28m 60s):
Will you tell it to me?

13 (29m 1s):
Sure. It's lines at Disney world. Remind me of my ex boyfriend three hours of waiting for a two minute ride AAO. But the story, I didn't feel comfortable doing it on stage till 13 years later. And I stayed with him, but then it got like real ratchet. Like we would get into arguments and I'd say shit like, but you said you learned how to read for me. Like, that's not how you want your first relationship to be

12 (29m 30s):
Interact. She even talks about how great it feels to tell the story on stage,

13 (29m 34s):
But it just felt so good. It was so cathartic. I was like, yes, I got to get this out. And I just started doing jokes about him and blogging about him. And my friends are like, you gotta be careful. Cause you're using his first and last name. And I was like, bitch, I don't give a fuck. Cause that motherfucker, All right, goodnight, everybody. I gotta go.

1 (30m 6s):
And a baker is one of the producers of our show. Michelle Butoh is the author of survival, the thickest and co-host of the podcast, a doping Coming up a real life romcom than involves Shakespeare, real kisses that are like staged kisses. And the police that's an a minute from Chicago public radio. When our program continues

17 (30m 27s):
Support for this American life comes from Squarespace. Squarespace is the all-in-one platform for building your brand and growing your business online, stand out with a beautiful website, engage with your audience and sell anything. Your products, content you create. And even your time get started with a best in class website template and customize it to fit your needs. Stand out in any inbox with Squarespace, email campaigns and every Squarespace website and online store comes with a suite of integrated features and useful guides that help maximize prominence among search results had do squarespace.com/american for a free trial. And when you're ready to launch use offer code American to save 10% off your first purchase of a website or domain support for this American life comes from Accenture. The pandemic has radically transformed the way people do business.

17 (31m 10s):
Things are not going back to the way they were. So how are the world's most innovative leaders navigating fundamental shifts in technology, human behavior, and more on built for change a new podcast from Accenture. You'll learn how businesses are meeting these challenges and finding success. Subscribe to built for change wherever you get your podcasts.

18 (31m 30s):
Hey there this American life listeners, I'm Wesley Morris. I'm a culture writer at the New York times and I co-host a podcast called still processing this season. I invited some of my favorite writers and critics to come talk to me about the culture that shaped us, the changing ways we consume it and why Keanu Reeves is basically a culture unto himself. You can listen to still processing wherever you get your podcast.

1 (32m 2s):
It's this American life, Myra glass today's program, romcom stories, mostly taken from real life. That mimic things that we have seen in romantic comedies. We've arrived at act three of our show, act three. The run, this of course in a romantic comedy is the scene where somebody has to cross town. At some point, literally sprinting to chase down the person they go have and stop them from either marrying somebody else or winning them back. Somehow it doesn't always end up at the airport, but lots of these do. And honestly, I have to say, I was surprised we found this ever happened in real life, but here is one story like that. Marisa Cohen's dad used to like to tell this story. It was his own marriage. He died a couple of years ago. His name is Ron.

1 (32m 42s):
The street goes like this. When he was getting together with Marissa's mom versus mom, Debbie drove across the country to move in with Ron in Florida and Fort you. She had the post office forward her mail to his house in Florida. And he saw a letter arrive from her ex fiance.

19 (32m 60s):
I think it's crazy. But my dad decided that he saw that letter and he had to read it.

1 (33m 5s):
This is Marissa.

19 (33m 5s):
So he just opened the letter, read the whole thing. And as my dad put it, my mom's ex fiance was declaring like his undying love for her and was like begging her not to go and was saying he wants to get back together with her. And my dad freaked out.

1 (33m 23s):
He decided this is it. It's now or never. He decides he's going to meet her in Dallas, which is where she is in her car trip. And also is where the ex fiance lives. He hurries to the airport.

19 (33m 35s):
The way he told it was he was going through the airport, you know, running through the Florida airport, gets a ring out of a little like gumball machine puts like, you know, however much that costs like a quarter or whatever in the gumball machine pulls out a Mickey mouse ring because it's Florida naturally gets on the plane flies in meets my mom in Dallas. And right there in the airport gets down on one knee. The second he sees her, I had no plans of seeing the ex fiance at all whatsoever.

1 (34m 5s):
It was Merce's mom, Debbie. She had no idea. The ex fiance had written a letter or that Ron had opened it. All she knew is that he had offered to drive the rest of the way across the country with her and was going to meet her in the Dallas airport.

19 (34m 16s):
He gets off the plane and I greet him and practically the very next thing out of his mouth is will you marry me? And he opens up his hand and in his hand, he's got this little Mickey mastering in his hand and I am not proud of my reaction at all. Do you want to hear it? My reaction was, are you crazy? This is the craziest thing I've ever heard of. I barely know you. That was my reaction.

1 (34m 47s):
I have to say that is my favorite part of the story.

19 (34m 50s):
I could have been a little more gentle. Now

1 (34m 52s):
What I love about it is that in the movies, when somebody does a gesture like that, like often it's way crazier than what he did. Yes. And kind of stalker-ish but the movie just acts like, oh, that was a totally lovely thing for a person to do because true love will out. And I liked that you had the normal human reaction that a normal person would have, would be like, are you nuts?

19 (35m 14s):
Right. Right, right, right. Yeah. Well, I'm too pragmatic to fall for that one, I guess.

1 (35m 24s):
Do I have eventually did win out though at their wedding, in addition to a regular ring, she also wore the Mickey mouse ones. There was another story we heard about somebody running to win love, which actually kind of paralleled the run that happens at the end of Neil's favorite romcom when Harry met Sally and when Harry met Sally, the way it goes is that it's new year's Eve. Harry's wandering around the streets of New York. And he realizes that he loves Sally has to tell her now breaks into a run to go tell her

2 (35m 54s):
It's very New York centric in this one because he's like tries to catch a cab. And of course he can't. So then he just like, he's just going to run the entire distance.

1 (36m 0s):
David Kestenbaum has our real life version of this story about a guy named Steve Snyder.

17 (36m 6s):
The thought that someone actually made one of these runs in real life seems so unlikely to me that I wanted to see where it had happened. Retrace the steps of it. So I met Steve where the run began at this burger place on Ludlow street in New York city. Steve is the kind of guy who is not very good at hiding his feelings. Like if this were a movie you could title it, say everything. The setup to the run is this. He'd met this woman, Emily at a birthday party. He was totally Smith.

20 (36m 33s):
What I remember is the party kind of turned into sort of a tunnel vision moment. All I really did was talk to her.

17 (36m 40s):
It didn't go grave. He kept asking her, you want to go to a movie? Maybe we could hang out. Sometimes

20 (36m 46s):
If there's a trajectory of my life, it's going from clingy to a little less clingy.

17 (36m 49s):
Steve email thereafter, the party, nothing came of it A year passes. And just like in, when Harry met Sally, they meet a second time in Stephen Emily's case. It's at the very same birthday party, same apartment. And they become friends. It was the kind of friendship where really it could go either way. She seemed kind of interested in something more, but maybe not enough. And the longer they were friends, it was like, well, maybe that's what they were. Steve had a job as a film critic. So they would go to movies, lots of movies where they would not hold hands and not kiss.

20 (37m 30s):
There, there is a pathetic moment. So Lincoln center station, we're waiting for the train. It's like some crazy 20 minute wait where the words actually come out of my mouth. You know, Hey, if you ever want a film critic as a boyfriend, you just let me know. I think we were talking about it, fit into the context of the conversation somehow, but I can't think of anything more, a better,

17 (37m 54s):
What was her reaction?

20 (37m 56s):
She just kind of laughed and was like, yeah. Okay. Okay.

17 (38m 3s):
The run happened on a night where they were not going to hang out. Steve thinks he was working on a review of some mutant ninja turtle movie. And after work, he goes out with some friends to a music place,

20 (38m 13s):
Music so loud, and it's kind of fun. You know, it's a great night and we're dancing. I actually started dancing for once we leave the place, we're going to go get some greasy food because we're hungry and we haven't eaten. And I, my bag and everything. So we walk into the burger joint,

17 (38m 27s):
The place we sitting in right now, greasy spoon, tiled white walls, and painted brick. It's like a piece of a subway station that somehow above ground,

20 (38m 36s):
You know, there's what, five tables here. It's tiny. And so I remember just kind of throwing my bag down and then I pull up my phone just to check. And it's one of those weird nights, right? Like I just haven't checked my phone almost any night, any night, 99% of nights, you know your phone's right next to you. If it's buzzing, you hear it. If you're, if it rings, you hear it. I don't know if I had bad reception in the place. Cause it's kind of an older building, but I looked down that I swear to God, I have like 22 text messages And I'm, I'm like

21 (39m 4s):
What?

20 (39m 6s):
And they're all from Emily. And so I run out of the burger place to the street.

17 (39m 12s):
Let's go outside.

7 (39m 14s):
Okay.

17 (39m 22s):
All right. So you rush out here.

20 (39m 24s):
I rushed out here and there. Not exactly a lot of room. I mean, there's, there's not room at all. So this is a crowded, like this is where you hang out till 4:00 AM. So I rush out and I, I start reading through the messages and it starts very kind of innocently, very like, Hey, what are you up to tonight? Oh, are you? Oh, maybe you're out. I was wondering if maybe you wanted to like get a drink or something. And then, And then it starts escalating like, wait, are you, are you not texting me? Or why aren't you texting me back?

17 (39m 58s):
Usually he was pretty quick at getting back to her

20 (40m 0s):
Because I was totally into her. And then it started being like, it started getting a little more paranoid. And then I think she started thinking I was on a date or something

17 (40m 11s):
And just two hours, it looked like she'd gone through all these phases, everything laid out and all these texts ending with one that Steve was not expecting.

20 (40m 20s):
The last text message said, maybe we need to talk about this whole not dating thing.

16 (40m 27s):
I,

20 (40m 28s):
I just, I, I thought like, this is this, is it like, whatever's, whatever's about to happen? Like this is the moment. And so I immediately called her. I immediately just hit dial. I didn't quite know what I was going to say. And I think she picked up the phone said, hello? And I just kinda started going into it. Like, I don't know what to say here. Like, yes, I, I want to date you. And What have we been doing? You know, I I'm like screaming in the street, the cars aren't moving. People stopped walking by me. They just stopped to see like what's going on here because I'm screaming. Like, I love you.

20 (41m 8s):
I don't know how to be clear. Like, I love you. That's why I'm screening this. And this crowd is starting to cheer me on. Someone does yell, like say you love them. Like say you love him yelling to her through the phone. And

17 (41m 25s):
I love you

20 (41m 29s):
All. I remember her saying, and it might've been all that she did say was, you know, like you need to stop yelling. If you want to talk about this, you might as well just come here. And as far as I'm concerned, this is the moment like it's on, like, this is happening. And I just start running down the street, looking for calves

17 (41m 50s):
With Trent that's right.

20 (41m 53s):
So I start running.

17 (41m 54s):
We are now jogging up Ludlow street. It's actually kind of exciting.

20 (41m 58s):
The crowd, the crowd is looking at me wondering what the hell I'm doing. And literally I'm like banging on every cab. Cause it's that time of night where some where some are just saying they're off duty. So I think I, I hit a couple and I'm sort of like, can you take me up to the east village? Not that far,

17 (42m 16s):
But taxi after taxi is like, no, there's someone in it. So he keeps running.

20 (42m 21s):
Like I didn't tell my friends where it was going. I left my laptop, all these screeners that I had taken assignments to review that the movie studios told me they needed back. I ditched everything.

17 (42m 33s):
Can we talk about the running?

20 (42m 35s):
Yeah.

17 (42m 36s):
Why does love always involve running?

20 (42m 39s):
That is interesting. Why didn't? I feel like I had to run

17 (42m 42s):
In the movies they run, but usually it's because someone's about to get married or about to get on a plane. Like

20 (42m 47s):
It felt very urgent to get there very quick. This had been building up for years and for a moment, she was willing to consider it. And I was going to get there before she said it was too late or she was too tired.

17 (42m 58s):
Steve told me he'd been living in the friend universe for so long. And now it was like this little wormhole had opened up. He didn't know for how long, where he might be able to slip into the parallel universe of boyfriend. Steve did eventually get a taxi, made it to her apartment and he stayed over and they did become boyfriend and girlfriend in the movies. This is often the final scene. The end of the movie is the beginning of the relationship. You don't really get to see how it goes, how he gets to clingy. One of them meets someone else how it just fades, but that is not this story.

20 (43m 35s):
We got married and now we have two kids and I still can't believe it's all played out the way it did.

17 (43m 44s):
I know things don't always work out at the end, but sometimes you just want to hear the ones that do

1 (43m 54s):
David ma'am. So I show senior editor at four. You had me at hello. So after Harry does his run across New York city on new year's Eve and reaches Sally explains to her that he ran. Because once you realize you want to spend the rest of your life with somebody, you want the rest of you. I have to start as soon as possible. And he tells her all the things about her that he notices and loves about her. That's the final thing you need for a romcom. You need for somebody to declare that they see you in ways that you are usually not seen. Maybe you don't even know yourself. And it does happen in real life. Sometimes after some obstacles, damn, who has a story like that?

12 (44m 33s):
She fell for him in an acting class. Gillian was a serious young actor bent over her desk, taking notes. When Jeffrey got up in front of class to read from a Midsummer night's dream,

22 (44m 43s):
I just remember hearing his voice first and then like actually looking up from my notebook and just watching him do the scene. And he was so, so good. And he had this really awesome voice. It's like super low and really resonant. And he was really hot too.

12 (45m 5s):
By the time he sat back down, she was done.

22 (45m 8s):
I was immediately like more attracted to him than I'd ever felt attracted to anybody before. And I didn't know how to talk to him. Like I just, I knew that I wanted to talk to them, but I just didn't know how there is like a mix between wanting to be right next to somebody and then like run away and hide.

12 (45m 27s):
Jillian was young 20. She'd had boyfriends, but nothing too serious. And they'd always liked her more than she liked them until Jeffrey. They were working together at a Shakespeare theater in New York. At the end, they put on a production of the winter's tale onstage. She'd sometimes get so distracted that he was there. That she'd forget her lines sometimes offstage. She thought maybe Jeffrey was flirting with her, but she couldn't tell for sure. And anyway, she had a rule, never sleep with a cast mate. So for four months she kept her feelings to herself, cut to the night of the final cast party. Everyone's at the bar that they always go to.

12 (46m 8s):
And it's the first night. They're no longer coworkers. So on her way over Jillian makes it her mission to try and kiss him that night. She talks to him a lot at the party, but keeps chickening out. Finally, she gives up and decides to go home.

22 (46m 23s):
And so I was standing there and I was getting ready to hail a cab, finishing up the end of a cigarette. And I felt him come up next to me. And yeah, he just, it was kind of like, I remember him just like brushing back hair kind of off of my cheek. And it's that moment, you know, where you know that you're actually going to kiss. Like you just feel it in your two bodies. And it just so very lightly pressed his lips up against mine. And then it was like a one out, like an actual, like deeper kiss. And I know from the outside we made it look good. Cause it very much felt like one of those like, like a good stage kiss

12 (47m 6s):
After their perfect first kiss, everything falls into place on cue. He invites her back to his apartment. She flicks her cigarette to the curb. He opens the door to the cab. She glides into the backseat marketing and sues.

22 (47m 20s):
I think that's probably the first time I've ever made out with anybody in the back of a cab. I think I was probably like, oh, this cab drivers here,

12 (47m 29s):
They make out all the way across Manhattan, over a bridge and up five flights of stairs. Somehow Jeffrey manages to unlock the door without removing his lips from Jillian's. This impresses her very much. Everything is going so perfectly.

22 (47m 43s):
So then I use this bathroom because I've been drinking a lot of beer all night and I'm so nervous. I noticed that my hands are shaking in the mirror. I'm so nervous. And I just looked myself in the eye and I actually gave myself a pep talk like pointer fingers, and dancing in the mirror and being like, this is everything you've waited for. It's actually happening. It's like excitement, nervous. I believe in you. Yeah.

12 (48m 11s):
Then Julian encounters, the first obstacle and what will turn out to be a very strange night for her

22 (48m 16s):
And my whole heart just sinks. And I'm not actually going to be able to have sex with him. I just got my period. I realized that like making out with him in the back of the cab and just like my cigarettes and my leather jacket, you know, it makes me seem like I was really cool city girl. But the reality of who I am is this very nervous person who grew up very conservative, like very, very conservative.

12 (48m 47s):
Jillian grew up on a farm in rural Canada this one time when she was young and got her period while wearing white pants, her whole family participated in a weird game of denial. Everyone just pretended like she sat in some jam. She didn't even like to say the word period.

22 (49m 3s):
It was something that was kind of like very hush hush and not something I was used to discussing openly

12 (49m 11s):
Jillian, thanks. There's no way we can sleep together tonight. So she's disappointed and she's stressing over how she's even going to tell him, but she can't hide in the bathroom much longer. He's waiting on the other side of the door.

22 (49m 23s):
So I left the bathroom and it was like, I stepped out into another world is like romantic world where he had actually taken a scarf and put it over a lamp. So like the lighting misses like orange mood lighting. He didn't have a shirt on and my mind remembers him glistening. He probably wasn't actually listening, but that's how my mind remembers him.

12 (49m 47s):
We checked her mind remembers right. Jeffrey told me. And he said, yes, this is very embarrassing looking back. But while she was in the bathroom, he slathered on baby oil to make his muscles pop. Anyway, they start to kiss.

22 (50m 1s):
And I remember like at first being really into it and then remembering my situation. So my mouth does that thing where it curls up a little bit and we kind of laugh a bit and he goes into kiss me again. I do that thing where I pull away again and he, he was so sweet. He was like, wait, like what's going on? You know, he noticed it, he read it right away and was like, we don't have to do this. Like I want to be clear, like, nothing is expected of you in this situation. We don't, we don't have to have sex. And I was like, I want to, I really like, I honestly, I want to, it's just, and I kept trying to think of how am I going to phrase this? I think of this thing that my roommate used to say, she calls it, her aunt flow.

22 (50m 43s):
So I look at him and I tell him that my aunt Flo has just landed and she's very much in town and he gets like a little bit confused. He asked me if my aunt is like, just arrived at the airport and if I have to go see her or something. So eventually I just, I fess up and I tell him like, no, I have my period. And I'm pretty sure I whispered it. I'm pretty sure I was like, I have my period and he's smiled this like half smile was like, so I was like, so what do you mean?

22 (51m 22s):
So, And he just, he didn't care.

12 (51m 32s):
He didn't care. He was older than her. Grew up with a bunch of sisters. Jillian is briefly astonished, considers this totally new possibility, not caring, decide she's into it. And they start kissing again. And because this is a family show, I will just say that everything that happened next went really well. In fact, it was the first time this particular activity went quite so well for Jillian.

22 (51m 56s):
I felt like I finally understood what it was about. I remember lying there and listening to his heartbeat. Yeah. And just like listening to his heartbeat, it's such a comforting sound that I can still hear it so distinctly. And after a while he gets up to go to the bathroom and he kind of like flicks on that little light.

12 (52m 24s):
She's talking about the lamp by the bed.

22 (52m 26s):
And I, I turned off that light and he flicks it on again. And then I turn it back off and we have this like little shared moment. Laughter. And he leaves and I turn the light on again and it looks like a crime scene. There is blood everywhere. This is the first time I had seen so much of my own, a menstrual fluid. I was afraid of it. I got good even fathom what he was going to think about it

12 (52m 58s):
Just when Julian thinks it can't get worse, she looks up from the bed.

22 (53m 2s):
And then I don't know how this happened, but my very own like red bloody hand print is on his white wall.

12 (53m 12s):
Oh my God.

22 (53m 14s):
I just like panicked

12 (53m 17s):
Julian, tears, the sheets off the bed and throws them aside. Next the hand print.

22 (53m 22s):
He didn't have any water or anything in his room. So I used my own saliva to wipe the bloody hand off of the wall, like out, out damn spot

12 (53m 37s):
Next she bundles up the sheets, but she has no idea what to do with them. She starts to put them in the hamper, but then realizes that he would still have to take them and wash them himself, which she cannot bear to imagine she peaks under his bed to see if she can stash them there. But then she thinks no, no that's crazy. He'll still find them. Jeffrey will be out of the bathroom any minute she's running out of options.

22 (54m 1s):
So I stuffed them into my own backpack.

12 (54m 4s):
Where you going to take them?

22 (54m 6s):
Oh yeah. Well I have to get out of there.

12 (54m 8s):
You're not going to get away with that though. He's going to notice that she's gone.

22 (54m 12s):
I know, but I wasn't thinking about that at the time. All I could think of is that I didn't want him to have to wash these sheets and I didn't, I didn't want, I didn't want him to have to clean up my mess I guess,

12 (54m 26s):
To cover her tracks. Gillian throws the comforter over the bed. So you can't see the sheets are missing the strains of pillows and gets ready to bolt. When Jeffrey comes back from the shower, she makes up a lame excuse about why she can't stay the night. Something about having to go to work early the next morning, she could tell how flimsy it sounded as she was saying it.

22 (54m 45s):
And I just, oh, it breaks my heart. But I remember him looking so hurt and so confused. I, I wish that I didn't leave. Like I wish that I had stayed, but

12 (54m 58s):
She didn't Jeffrey offered to help Jillian hail a cab. But she was like, no, it's fine. I'll just take the subway. She walked to the station, totally miserable.

22 (55m 7s):
Like that. It really hits me that I have stolen this man sheet. How do you come back from that? How do you, how are you not the weird girl who like took his bedsheets?

12 (55m 19s):
Yeah.

22 (55m 20s):
So then I'm so inside myself and I hear this voice being like ma'am excuse me. Ma'am and I look up and in New York they have this like station outside of subway entrances with this like folding table and the NYP D stands behind. And it's a, it's a random bag search.

12 (55m 41s):
No. And here Jillian does what any sensible leading lady would do when confronted by law enforcement?

22 (55m 50s):
I pretend I don't hear them. And I try to like exit the subway station. I like like a brisk, like run-walk and nothing looks more suspicious than trying to avoid a random bag. Oh,

12 (56m 5s):
The officer catches up to Jillian, unzips her backpack and pulls out the sheets, which are covered in blood.

22 (56m 10s):
I remember him like in the subway has such distinct lighting. Like I just remember him holding up these sheets, my menstrual sheets of shame, like menstrual sheets of doom. I realized that they didn't look like a menstrual sheets of do they look like murder sheets. He asked me to explain it and I just start crying and I can barely get the words out. I'm just like trying to explain to him, like, it's my period on those sheets. And I stole the sheets from the guy that I was with and I know that that's wrong. Like I know that the actual theft of the sheets is wrong and I promised the officer that I would return them, but I just needed to wash them first,

12 (56m 56s):
The police officer looks Julian up and down, asks for her ID and points her to go stand in a little box, taped on the floor by the wall. She watches him walk over to his partner and have a very serious looking conversation. The sheets stay crumpled up on the plastic folding table

22 (57m 11s):
And he comes back and then he gives me an ultimatum. So we can go down to the precinct and they can file a report. And they've got to keep his sheets just in case it's evidence. You know, and they're gonna ask me a bunch of questions and follow up, or I can take him back to the apartment, the apartment that I just came from and have my partner corroborate my story. Like, and I had to think about it. Like I honestly, like I honestly gave it a really solid, good thing. There was a huge part of me that would rather go to the police station than have to go back and show Jeffrey. These not only show him these sheets, but also bring the police there.

22 (57m 52s):
But you know, my, my common sense caught up with me of like, this looks like I've done something very wrong.

12 (57m 59s):
They make the long walk to Jeffrey's apartment violently. They get to the doorstep and buzz, wait for Jeffrey to walk down five flights of stairs when he gets there. The police officer does all the talking good evening. Do you know this woman? Jeffrey says he does that. They just been hanging out. Then the cop reaches into Jillian's backpack and pulls out the sheets. Do you know what these are? Jeffrey says, those are my sheets. The police officer asks, can you identify the substance on these sheets?

22 (58m 33s):
And I just remember being fascinated because without hesitant hesitating, and almost like in this like stronger voice, he just says menstrual fluid, which is like, you know, I, I would call him my period and he thing other than what it actually was. So for him to like, look a police officer right in the eyes and just say very confidently menstrual fluid, it was just, it sounded so scientific and very grown-up

12 (59m 7s):
The cops having fulfilled their narrative purpose and successfully reunited our couple.

22 (59m 13s):
And then I'm alone. Jeffrey. I'm trying to apologize to him, namely for stealing his sheets, but also for, just for everything for bringing the police back to his house,

12 (59m 26s):
Jillian remembers sobbing through all of this she's mortified. All of a sudden Jeffrey stops her and says this thing that still hits Jillian in a soft spot.

22 (59m 36s):
And he told me it was from him looking at me and he's like, you're so strange. And he's a wonderfully strange Everything that you could possibly think of going wrong, went wrong. And it, it all still turned out. Okay. He still liked me no matter what.

12 (1h 0m 2s):
This is like my favorite moment in any romcom, it's a scene in 10 things. I hate about you and Julia Stiles reads her poem to he Fletcher in front of the entire class is Jack Nicholson. And as good as it gets telling Helen Hunt, how he just can't believe she runs into strangers all day long. And they don't know that they just met the greatest woman alive. And of course, it's mark Darcy at the bottom of the stairs telling Bridget Jones. I like you very much just as you are To me, the whole point of romcoms is to set up that line. That's what we all want to hear and say to the people we love most, but real life doesn't guarantee a plot line that pushes us to say it.

1 (1h 0m 49s):
Diane will. She's one of the producers of our show, Jillian and Jeffrey dated for a few months. And then they broke it off. When real life new jobs, her expired visa from Canada got in the way she says, she's glad it ended before anything bad happened. It keeps the memory sweet, just like a movie today. Jillian Walsh is an actor and writer and Toronto version of the story. First aired on the risk podcast.

23 (1h 1m 12s):
Talk to me, baby. Westwind Westwind where you Have no, <inaudible> heard what you told me, but you said yes, but you told me <inaudible> you said, what the hell you doing?

1 (1h 1m 46s):
Well? Brooklyn's Peter's day by Neil drumming and Diane Wu. The people who put our show together includes Annabaker Elise Bergersen Ben Calhoun, Dana Chivez. Shawn Cole, Whitney Dangerfield, Kornfeld, Stephanie food, Damien grave, Kimberly Henderson. <inaudible> David Kestenbaum, Seth land, Alvin mallet, BA Parker, Ben fail, and Robin Semyon Alyssa's ship Christopher's with Talan Julie Whitaker, senior producer for today's show Brian Reed, managing editor, Susan Burton, production opportunities rebrand by Michelle Novaris, Stowe Nelson and Matt Tierney. Thanks to the podcast. Two dope Queens for the recording of Michelle Butoh, performing on stage. Also, thanks to Linda <inaudible> Turner, Jeffrey Barnes, Fitch, Ron Funches, Aisha Harris, the folks at Mikey's burger and the Alamo draft house in Yonkers, our website, this American life.org.

1 (1h 2m 28s):
This American life is delivered to public radio stations by PRX, the public radio exchange. Thanks as always to our programs. Co-founder Mr. <inaudible>. He and I were reminiscing, but that taxi ride we had years ago in England with Margaret Thatcher.

22 (1h 2m 41s):
I think that's probably the first time I've ever made out with anybody in the back of a cab

1 (1h 2m 44s):
I'm Eric Glass back next week with more stories that this American life Next week on the podcast of this American life. So at second grade teacher Rosen, a TV pops in a movie that is so terrifying. It lands a bunch of kids in group therapy.

24 (1h 3m 16s):
The six-year-old me, it was like, this is bull like this, this counselor is not worth a damn she's not giving us practical advice. Why are we wasting time talking about this? We need to focus on killing the leprechaun.

1 (1h 3m 29s):
What happens when adults are not around next week on the podcast or your local public radio station.