Squarespace (0s):
Support for this American Life comes from Squarespace. Squarespace is the all-in-one platform for building your brand and growing your business online. Get started with a best-in-class website template and customize it to fit your needs. Browse the category of your business to find a perfect starting place. Sell your products on an online store. Whether you sell physical or digital products, Squarespace has the tools you need to start selling online. Head to squarespace.com/american for free trial and when you're ready to launch, use offer Code American to save 10% off your first purchase of a website or domain.

The Coldest Case in Laramie (33s):
Hey, their podcast listeners, I are here with a very quick heads up before we start today's show. Our coworkers over at Serial have a new podcast, and what they're doing is they're going back to what they did in their very first season without NASS story. They're looking into a murder this time. The reporter is Kim Barker, and she looks into this case that she's known about since she was a teenager in Laramie, Wyoming. And what's remarkable about the series, what really feels like nothing else Serial has done, or really I think anybody has done, is you just get to hear Kim, who's this pure prize winning reporter, just methodically going from person to person to person, source to source first. You know, just to figure out if this is a story and if there's a chance that she's gonna find out something of interest, and then to piece together bit by bit what really happened. And you just hear her work, these interviews, one after another with this, I don't know, directness and clear headedness. That's just really something to hear, and she ends up at this place she did not expect. I remember Joyce Snyder, who runs cereal and who ran this American life with me for years and years, told me that when she listened earlier on to just this long, long, very rough cut of the interviews, like no narration, no music, no nothing. She was like, if we can make a series that feels like that listening experience, it'll be a new feeling for a podcast to have. Anyway, the show is called The Coldest Case in Miami from Serial in the New York Times. You can get it wherever you get your podcast.

1 (2m 1s):
And here's today's show. Heather in her girlfriend lived with a cat named Sid. The girlfriend was always inventing these cute little affectionate nicknames for Sid, but never did that for Heather. She was always praising Sid and asking Heather to praise Sid, but never gave her that kind of approval to Heather. If anything, she was kind of detached when it came to Heather. And so even though Sid was just a cat against your will, against your better judgment, Heather started to get jealous.

2 (2m 30s):
I remember that I would sort of wake up in the morning and I would hear her saying things like, you are so beautiful. You are a princess. Look at you. And you know, as I open my eyes, I realize that she's talking not to me, but to the cat.

1 (2m 51s):
You felt like the third wheel.

2 (2m 54s):
You know, I know if it, if there had been another woman, I would've compared myself to her physically, sort of what does she look like? What kinds of things does my, is, does my girlfriend attracted to that I could aspire to? You know, what kind, what personality traits is she funny? You know, but there was, there was just, I didn't know what it was about Sid. I mean, I could see that she was, you know, that she was attractive as a cat and I, you know, I could see that she had a, she had this nonchalant that was beautiful, you know, she didn't seem to care really that she was loved. So those were, those were things that I did think about really cultivating even. But

1 (3m 31s):
You thought about cultivating a nonchalant and

2 (3m 34s):
You know, that I was this concerned about, it shows you that it would've been a, you know, a, a fake, but I, yeah, I mean, I thought about cultivating that

1 (3m 49s):
Since our pets win our love, they can also activate all the other feelings. They can go with love, jealousy and anger and dependence and just everything else. And as soon as any one of those feelings kicks in, all the complicated dynamics that happen between any people in any household, any family, all those also inevitably kick in. And that's what happened with Heather and Sid the cat.

2 (4m 13s):
I felt sort of the same way I felt. You know how when you have a crush on someone and, and then your friends with their significant other and the, all the awkwardness as you pretend that, you know, you sort of don't have the feelings that you do for this other person. I sort of felt like Sid was the significant other of the person, you know, for whom I had feelings and I, I, so I felt awkward around Sid and I felt like I had to, to, I don't know. Yeah, I, they, I felt like they were together before I was around and I was an interloper. Yeah, all the awkwardness surrounding that.

1 (4m 49s):
And so what's it like to be in a love triangle with, with another woman and a cat?

2 (4m 56s):
Well, I, it was pretty, you know, diminishing. I mean, it was a beautiful cat.

3 (5m 10s):
Griffin,

1 (5m 11s):
WBE Z Chicago. It's this American Life America Glass. Today in our program in Dog, we trust stories of dogs and cats and other pets and how they get caught up in our family dynamics as non-speaking members of our households. I broke him today in three acts, act one, the youth in Asia, in which writer David Sedaris describes how a great Dane and not a very smart one was able to completely replace him and his sisters when they grew up and moved outta their parents' house. Act two, Polly won so much more than a cracker. Three small children who love their mom but do not love their mom's pet bird back three, resurrection, what it means in a family when a pet armadillo dies and what it means when it doesn't die.

1 (5m 55s):
Stay with us. The euthanasia. So when a pet dies, to what degree can it be replaced by another pet? And to what degree can pets replace people in our lives? When David Si says this story, story which we first broadcast a few years back, along with the rest of today's show

4 (6m 21s):
In the early 1960s, during what my mother referred to as the tail end of the lasi years, my parents were given two collies, which they named Rais and Duchess. We were living then in New York state out in the country, and the dogs were free to race Through the forest, they napped in meadows and stood knee deep in frigid streams, co-stars and their own private dog food commercial. Late one January evening while lying on a blanket in the garage, Duchess gave birth to a litter of slick potato sized puppies. When it looked as though one of them had died, her mother placed a creature in a casserole dish and popped it into the oven like the witch and Hansel and Gretel, oh, keep your shirts on.

4 (7m 12s):
She said, it's only set on one 50. I'm not baking anyone. This is just to keep it warm. The heat revived the sick puppy and left us believing that our mother was capable of resurrecting the dead. Faced with the responsibilities of fatherhood, RAAs took off. The puppies were given away, and we moved south where the heat and humidity worked against the best interests of a Cali Duchess's. Once beautiful coat now hung in ragged patches.

4 (7m 52s):
When finally full of worms, she collapsed in the ravine. Beside our house, we reevaluated our mother's healing powers. The entire animal kingdom was beyond her scope. She could only resurrect the cute dead. The oven trick was performed on half a dozen dazed in chubby hamsters, but failed to work on my first Guinea pig who died after eating four cigarettes in an entire pack of matches. Don't take it too hard, my mother said, removing her oven Mitz, the world is full of Guinea pigs. You can get another one tomorrow.

4 (8m 34s):
Eulogies tended to be brief. Our motto being there's always more Where this one came from. A short time after Duchess died, our father came home with a German shepherd puppy for reasons that were never fully explained. The privilege of naming the dog went to a friend of my older sisters, a 14 year old girl named Cindy. She was studying German at the time, and after carefully examining the puppy and weighing it with her hands, she announced that it would be called machen, which apparently meant girl in what she referred to as Deutche. When she was six months old, Mein was hit and killed by a car.

4 (9m 17s):
Her food was still in the bowl when our father brought home an identical German shepherd, the same Cindy Chris, and as Mein two. This tag team progression was disconcerting, especially for the new dog who was expected to possess both the knowledge and the personality of her predecessor. Machen one would never have wet on the floor like that. My father would scold and the dog would sigh, knowing she was the canine equivalent of a rebound. Machen two never accompanied us to the beach and merely posed in any of the family photographs. Once her puppyhood was spent, we more or less lost interest.

4 (10m 1s):
We ought to get a dog. We'd sometimes say completely forgetting that we already had one. During the era of the Matins, we had a succession of drowsy, secretive cats who seemed to share a unique bond with our mother. It's because I opened their cans. She said that we all knew it ran deeper than that. What they had in common were their claws that in a deep seated need to destroy my father's golf bags. The first cat passed into a disagreeable old age and died hissing at the kitten who had prematurely arrived to replace her.

4 (10m 45s):
When at the age of nine, the second cat was diagnosed with feline leukemia. My mother was devastated. I'm going to have Sadie put to sleep. She said, it's for her own good, and I don't wanna hear a word about it from any of you. This is hard enough as it is. The cat was put down and then came the anonymous postcards and phone calls orchestrated by my sisters and I, The cards announced a miraculous new cure for feline leukemia. While the callers identified themselves as representatives of Cat Fancy Magazine, we'd like to use Sadie as our cover story, and we're hoping to schedule a photo shoot Is tomorrow possible after spending a less year with only one child, still living at home, my parents visited a breeder and returned with a great Dane.

4 (11m 43s):
They named Molina. They loved this dog in proportion to its size, and soon their hearts had no room for anyone else in terms of family. Their six children had been nothing more than a failed experiment. Molina was the real thing. The dog was their first true common interest, and they loved it equally each in their own way. Our mother's love tended towards a horizontal, a pet being little more than a napping companion. Something she could look at and say, that looks like a good idea. Scoot over. Why don't you? A stranger peeking through the window might think that the two of them had entered a suicide packed.

4 (12m 26s):
She and the dog sprawled like corpses. Their limbs arranged into an internal embrace. My father loved the great danger its size, and frequently took her on long aimless drives during which she'd stick her heavy anvil sized head out the window and leak great quantities of foamy saliva. Other drivers pointed and stared rolling down their windows to shout, Hey, you got a saddle for that thing? Went out for a walk. There was the inevitable. Are you walking her or is it the other way around? Our father always laughed as if this was the first time he'd heard it. The attention was addictive and he enjoyed a pride of accomplishment he'd never felt with any of us.

4 (13m 10s):
It was if he, it was as if he were somehow responsible for her size and stature, as if he'd personally designed her spots and trained her to grow to the size of a pony. Went out with the dog. He carried a leash in one hand and a shovel in the other, just in case. He said, just in case what? She dies and you need to bury her. I didn't get it. No. He'd say it's for, you know, it's for her business. My father was retired, but the dog had business. I was living in Chicago when they first got Molina, and every time I came home, the animal was bigger.

4 (13m 54s):
Every time there were more maroo cartoons displayed upon the refrigerator, and every time my voice grew louder as I asked myself, who are these people Down? Girl, my parents would chuckle as the puppy jumped up, panting from my attention, her great padded paws reached my waist, then my chest and shoulders. Until eventually her arms wrapped around my neck and her head towering above my own. She came to resemble a dance partner, scouting the room for a better offer. That's just her way of saying hello. My mother would say, handing me the towel used to wipe up the dog's bubbling seepage here.

4 (14m 38s):
You missed a spot on the back of your head. The dog's growth was monitored on a daily basis, and every small accomplishment was documented for later generations. One confined few pictures of my sister Tiffany, while Molina has entire volumes devoted to her terrible twos hit me. My mother said, on one of my returns home from Chicago, no, wait, let me go get my camera. She left the room and returned a few moments later, okay, she said, now hit me better yet. Why don't you just pretend to hit me? I raised my hand and my mother cried out in pain. Ow she yelled.

4 (15m 19s):
Somebody help me. This stranger is trying to hurt me. And I don't know why. I caught an advancing blur moving in from the left, and the next thing I knew I was down on the ground. The Great Dane tearing holes in the neck of my sweater. The camera flashed and my mother squealed with the light. God, I love that trick. I rolled over to protect my face. This isn't a trick. My mother snapped another picture. Oh, don't be so critical. It's close enough With us. Grow and out of the house. My sisters and I foolishly expected our parents' lives to stand still.

4 (16m 1s):
They were supposed to stagnate and live in the past, but instead they constructed a new we consisting of Molina and the founding members of her fan club. Someone who obviously didn't know her too well had given my mother a cheerful stuffed bear with a calico heart stitched onto its chest. According to the manufacturer, the bear's name was mumbles and all it needed in order to thrive were two double a batteries and a regular diet of hugs. Where's mumbles? My mother would ask and the dog would jump up and snatch the bear from its hiding place on top of the refrigerator, yanking it this way and that in hopes of breaking its neck.

4 (16m 45s):
That's my girl. My mother would say, we don't like mumbles, do we? I learned that we liked morally safer, but not Mike Wallace, that we didn't like mumbles or thunder, but we're crazy about Stan Getz records and the Iranian couple who'd moved in up the street. It was difficult to keep straight, but having known these people all my life, I didn't wanna be left out of the we. During the final years of Matin two, in the first half of the Molina Epic, I lived with a female cat named Neil. My mother looked after the cat when I moved from Raleigh and flew her to Chicago once I'd found a place and settled in.

4 (17m 26s):
Neil was old when she moved to Chicago and then she got older. She started leaving teeth in her bowl and the sort of breath that could remove paint. When she stopped cleaning herself, I took to bathing her in the sink and she'd stand still too weak to resist the humiliation of shampoo soaking wet. I could see just how thin and brittle she really was. Almost comic like one of those cartoon cats checking her fur coat at the cloak rim of the seafood restaurant. Her kidneys shrank to the size of raisins, and though I loved her very much, I assumed the vet was joking when he suggested dialysis. I took her for a second opinion.

4 (18m 7s):
Vet number two tested her blood and phoned me at home saying, perhaps you should think about euthanasia. I hadn't heard that word in a while. And pictured scores of happy Japanese children spilling from the front door of their elementary school. Are you thinking about it? He asked. Yes. I said, as a matter of fact, I am. In the end, I returned to the animal hospital and had her put to sleep. When the vet injected the sodium phenobarbital, Neil fluttered her eyes, assumed a nap position, and died a week after putting her to sleep.

4 (18m 47s):
I received Neil's ashes in a forest. Green can. She'd never expressed any great interest in the outdoors, so I scattered her remains on the carpet And then vacuumed her back up. The cat's death struck me as the end of an era. It was of course, the end of her era, but with the death of a pet, there's always that urge to crowd. The parentheses and string black crepe over an entire 10 or 20 year period, the end of my safe college life, the last of my 30 inch waist, my faltering relationship with my first real boyfriend.

4 (19m 34s):
I cried for it all and spent the next several months wondering why so few songs were written about cats. My mother sent a consoling letter along with the check to cover the cost of the cremation and the left hand corner under the heading marked memo she'd written Pet burning. I had it coming When my mother died, Molina took over her side of the bed due to their size. Great Danes generally don't live very long.

4 (20m 15s):
My father massaged her arthritic legs, carried her up the stairs and lifted her into bed. He treated her the way that men in movies treat their ailing wives, the way he would've treated my mother had she allowed such naked displays of affection. Molina's parentheses contained the final 10 years of his married life. She'd attended my father's retirement, lived through my sister's wedding, and knew who everyone was talking about when they mentioned the M words. Mom mumbles and morally safer. Regardless of her pain, my father could not bear to let her go. The euthanasia begged him to end her life.

4 (20m 55s):
<unk> They said <unk> but he held out until the last minute. A month after Molina died, my father returned to the breeder and came home with another great Dane, a female like Molina, gray spots like Molina. Only this one is named Sophie. He tries to love her, but readily admits that he may have made a mistake. She's a nice enough dog, but the timing is off. When walking the puppy through the neighborhood, my father feels not unlike the foolish widower stumbling behind his energetic young bride. Her stamina embarrasses him, as does her interest in younger men.

4 (21m 36s):
The passing driver slow to a stop and roll down their windows. Hey, they yell. Are you walking her or is it the other way? Round their words. Remind him of happier times of milder forces straining against the well worn leash. He still gets the attention, but now in response, he just lifts his shovel and groans.

1 (22m 3s):
David Sedaris. This story of the euthanasia is in his book, me Talk. Pretty one day version of the story also appeared in Esquire magazine. Today's program is a rerun. David's dad, Lou died in the years since we first broadcast this at the age of 98. You can see David in person on tour all over the country starting at the end of March. details@davidcerasbooks.com slash tour.

6 (22m 30s):
A man's best friend is a dog. That's a very common fact. Everybody knows it's true. But tell me, Mr, have you ever wondered if a dog has a best friend too? Well, I figured it out last night and I did it all alone. And I think that I've got it right. So if you've got a dog off your own, I'm about to give you a bit of philosophy you want. Remember if you can, our dog's best friend is a man who appreciates appreciate the man.

1 (23m 15s):
Two Polly wants so much more than a cracker. When Veronica tells this story, it's a story about love. When she was 17, she saw a bird in a pet store on a call, which kind of a big parrot, brightly colored with a three foot wingspan.

7 (23m 30s):
And I fell in love with her immediately. And you know, I I was still in high school. I had no money whatsoever.

1 (23m 39s):
How expensive was she?

7 (23m 41s):
She, well, sh the price tag on the cage said $1,400, which was an inordinate amount of money.

1 (23m 48s):
So how long did it take you to pay off the bird?

7 (23m 50s):
It took me about five years to pay her off working part-time jobs, babysitting.

1 (23m 56s):
And, and what did you love about her? What did, what was the thing that that drew you to her?

7 (24m 2s):
I, I can't, I find it hard to, to, to say exactly why I was drawn to her. I, I, I thought she was the most beautiful thing I'd ever seen. It's hard to describe how, how it feels to love an animal, but as soon as I saw her face, I, I just thought she was the most beautiful thing and I had to have her and I, and I wanted to see that face every day. And I wanted to care for her. And, and I didn't know anything about bringing up parrots or feeding them or caring for them. I just wanted to take her home like a big, like a treasure.

1 (24m 39s):
Okay, fast forward 23 years. When we first broadcast this story, Veronica was 40 years old, married with two twin boys, Kyle and Cameron, age five, and another boy Daniel, who was eight. One of the things she didn't know about Parrots when she first saw her macaw is that they can live for 80 years. 80. So every morning she would take the bird, whose name is Gideon, out of her cage so she could freely wander the house

7 (25m 3s):
And get into things she shouldn't get into, like a baby climbing into laundry baskets and ripping up clothes and taking the kids Pokemon cards and ripping them to shreds and pulling newspapers out of boxes.

1 (25m 17s):
And, and so at breakfast, you've got three little kids there,

7 (25m 21s):
The kids will interact with each other and Gideon will scream as loud as she can over their heads.

1 (25m 28s):
Now let's play a recording of Gideon for, for people at home. It sounds really loud.

7 (25m 40s):
It's intolerable. It's a sound that you don't want to hear.

1 (25m 44s):
It sounds very dinosaur like.

7 (25m 47s):
Yeah, well, well, you know,

1 (25m 51s):
The word you just used was intolerable.

7 (25m 54s):
It's, it's the most unpleasant sound I think I have ever heard.

1 (25m 59s):
But you've lived with this sound for, for 23 years.

7 (26m 3s):
I've lived with that sound for 23 years. It's in my dreams. It's wherever I go. It's in the kitchen, it's in the dining room, it's in my bedroom. And the kids have, have grown up with her. So they, they won't really notice it at at first, but after about the fourth or fifth scream, they will start covering their ears and shouting back at the bird. And

9 (26m 30s):
You stop it, please. Mommy, will you take her in the, come on, come

1 (26m 41s):
On. Now you tape little interviews with your kids about Gideon. Here's Cameron, who's five.

7 (26m 46s):
Do you like having Gideon in, in the family?

10 (26m 49s):
Not really.

7 (26m 52s):
Would you rather that she went somewhere else?

10 (26m 54s):
Yeah, I would just go to England. Cause I don't want her to scream. When we were watching tv,

7 (27m 4s):
Would you rather have a different kind of pet than Gideon?

10 (27m 9s):
Yeah, dog does really nice and doesn't bite and doesn't bark.

7 (27m 18s):
But do you understand why mommy loves Gideon?

10 (27m 25s):
No,

1 (27m 26s):
This is Kyle, the other twin also five.

10 (27m 29s):
One time. She just almost bited off my phone right now. That kind of scared me.

7 (27m 38s):
They're terrified of Gideon. If they're approached by her, they'll immediately scream and run away. They won't go near her.

1 (27m 47s):
No. And is that because Gideon is in fact a little dangerous? Their their right to be a little scared?

7 (27m 52s):
Well, Gideon Gideon's primary objective in life is to be my mate. And so every other person or creature that comes near me is a threat to our relationship. And my children are a very big threat to our relationship because we have a, we have physical contact with each other. She sees me carrying them and cooking for them and touching them and picking them up. And so she has a, a desire to kill them basically. I mean, in the bird world, she would kill another a, a, a predator or some intrusive love interest.

1 (28m 33s):
Now, after your kids were born and you saw how Gideon reacted to your children and you saw how your, your children reacted to Gideon, they were scared that Gideon bit Kyle, did it change your feelings about Gideon?

7 (28m 49s):
I don't think anything can change my feelings about Gideon,

1 (28m 54s):
But if I had a dog that I loved and, and you know, then I had a, and you know, a new baby in the house and the dog, you know, was hostile towards the baby, I, I wouldn't feel the same way about the dog. You know, like I would feel protective of my kid, which I'm sure you, you did.

7 (29m 8s):
Well, I, I do feel protective of the children and I take certain steps to protect them from her, but I can't, I I can't stop loving her because of her natural tendency to want to drive away competition.

1 (29m 25s):
Now, as I said, this is a glove story and now Veronica knows Gideon is driving everybody else who she loves crazy. She loves the bird, the same monogamous feelings and make Gideon mean to everyone else. Make Gideon fantastically sweet to Veronica. Gideon watches her every move, cuddles with her blushes. Gideon actually blushes when they play together. She is all the Gideon lives for her and it's hard to turn away from that. Thank you Gideon. Veronica also worries that if she gave the bird away, the bird would die. They mate so fiercely that sometimes when their mate vanishes, that can happen. I know Gideon, it's upsetting. And then there's this story. When Veronica was 18 and had barely owned Gideon for a year, she took Gideon outside like she did every day.

1 (30m 10s):
And Gideon flew away. Veronica hadn't been careful enough clipping her feathers. She was racked every night. Veronica cried herself to sleep every day. She sat on the roof watching the skies. After six days, a kid on his way to school spotted the bird.

7 (30m 25s):
And I went quickly ran to where he said she was, and I saw her in probably the tallest tree and immediately scaled the tree, got all the way to the top, which was about, I was up about 50 feet. She was on the end of the branch all the way out. And so I s i I inched my way out and about three quarters of the way out, I was only a foot away from her. The branch snapped and I fell straight down without hitting anything on the way and just fell 50 feet and landed on my feet on hard ground.

7 (31m 4s):
And I suffered a multiple compression fracture of my spine and I had a collapsed lung. I should have died according to the, the orthopedic surgeon.

1 (31m 20s):
Do you think the fact that you nearly died trying to save Gideon is one of the things that makes it impossible for you to give Gideon up?

7 (31m 27s):
That's something I've thought about. Yeah, it's quite possible. I I feel like it's brought us closer. It's not a pleasant thing that happened, but I I feel like she would've died out there.

1 (31m 41s):
You say that it brought us closer, but you're the only one who actually understands that you went out and you got injured trying to save Gideon. Gideon doesn't understand that.

7 (31m 49s):
No, she doesn't understand that, but I know she understands something. She's very bonded to me. She became so close to me at one point that she, her hormones produced an egg and that's something that happens only between couples. So I know she feels something I don't really need to know much more than that.

1 (32m 15s):
In the end, I think this is only partly a story about Veronica's love for Gideon. It's also a story about her family's love for her that they put up with the bird. You know, we all wanna believe that the people who love us will at least accept the parts of us that are not so appealing. In Veronica's case, the unappealing part just happens to have physical form and be a bird every day that her kids and her husband put up with that they prove to her just how much they love her.

10 (32m 41s):
I just don't know why you added to buy her. Well, how much bucks was she?

7 (32m 49s):
She cost a lot of money,

10 (32m 51s):
But how much money

7 (32m 56s):
She cost? Like $1,400.

10 (33m 1s):
Whoa. Just for a parent, why would they do that? Hi.

1 (33m 12s):
The most remarkable thing I think about the phrase I love you is how rarely it's used literally to mean I love you that I have a feeling of love for you. It's used much more often, I think to mean a hundred other things. Tell me that you love me or I need to get off the phone now or things are fine between us, right?

3 (33m 36s):
Or

1 (33m 37s):
Yes, it's fine that we keep the

3 (33m 40s):
Parrot

11 (33m 51s):
Chip, chip, chip, chip, chip. Come on, chip, chip, chip, chip, chip. Come on. Come on to a poodle

1 (34m 7s):
Coming up. One of the best known stories from the Bible reenacted with an armadillo sort of and what animal takes a lick and keeps on ticking answers in a minute. When our program continues

HelloFresh (34m 21s):
Support for this American life comes from HelloFresh. According to a recent HelloFresh survey, 43% of people said they've ended relationships If their partner was a bad cook, but don't sweat it. HelloFresh will help you own the kitchen so you can up your dating game and satisfy your better half. They guide you through every step of making meals your partner will love. Head to hellofresh.com and fool around with easy, foolproof recipes that'll have you both craving more

Indeed (34m 48s):
Support for this American life comes from. Indeed. What's better than finding quality candidates? Finding them instantly. For a powerful hiring partner, you need indeed Hate waiting. Indeed's US data shows over 80% of Indeed employers find quality candidates whose resume on indeed matches their job description. The moment they sponsor a job, indeed knows that when you're doing everything for your company you can't afford to overspend on hiring. Visit indeed.com/american to start hiring now. Just go to indeed.com/american indeed.com/american terms and conditions apply Cost application pricing not available for everyone need to hire. You need indeed

1 (35m 25s):
To Sam American Life. Amira Glass. Each week in a program, of course you choose some theme. Bring you different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's program In dog, we trust stories of pets and the ways they function as actual members of our families and affect family dynamics. We first broadcast this show years ago, we have arrived at act three of our program, act three resurrection. So earlier in today's show, David Ceras talked about animals that his mom could and could not bring back to life. This is another story about what it is that animals can take the place of in our lives and in our homes. This piece of fiction from writer Brady ual.

13 (35m 59s):
It was three days after our old man died that my brother Donald accomplished the most spectacular deed of his life. I wish I could have been there to see it. Donald taking the Greyhound down to Nogales all by himself, buying the baby armadillo for 800 pesos at the Santa Kuna market, tucking the little thing under his arm like a football and running the length of the pedestrian border station passed the heat struck tourists in their sombreros and loud socks and the guards with their side arms and walkie-talkies pushing through the last steel tooth turn style and sprinting like a mad man into the heart of the noga slums. It was his proudest moment, though it did take him the rest of the day.

13 (36m 40s):
In half the night of wandering among the hookers and street corner punks to find a bus that would bring him back to Aho where we lived. There he was. After I came home from hours of frantic searching, sitting stiff, backed on the couch, beaming the little armadillo was rooting at the crotch of his pants and Donald's pink sweating face had screwed itself up. With such a grin of utter self-satisfaction, Donald ended up giving the armadillo to me a present. He said something to make me feel better. I thanked him, took the armadillo, which clawed at my t-shirt like a cat and gave it a little squeeze. What else could I do?

13 (37m 26s):
My father had worked as a janitor for 21 years, but he was also a reader of books. A scholar, if it is possible to be both a scholar and a sixth grade dropout and one of his favorite subjects was zoology. He could bore you into a coma with what he knew about the great horn dowel or the common meal worm or the laughing hyenas of Africa, but of all the beasts of the animal kingdom he loved and admired the humble armadillo most, Nope, not the smartest or the prettiest he would say when one of them scattered across the highway in front of our old demands, but the hardest. You see what I'm saying? The most resourceful. He often promised he would get us an armadillo for a pet, but he died before he could come through an end all heart attack standing in line at the grocery store.

13 (38m 13s):
I was 17, Donald 19. Our mother, a Guatemala migrant worker put married my father under the impression he would one day be a rich man who could buy her a Cadillac and a house with a swimming pool had run off when we were babies, so it was just the two of us Now It took me about a week to get over the shock and then I did what I had to. I dropped out of school, started working full-time, pouring concrete for Hassan Fers, and moved Donald and me to a cheaper apartment near the McComb and Son's wrecking yard where Donald could watch the cars getting pulverized from our window. We got money from the state that paid for Donald's medication, but the rest was up to me.

13 (38m 55s):
Donald was really something else. What could be done with a guy who ate his own earwax, who carried a maroon mini bible in the band of his underpants and read random scriptures out loud at inappropriate times. Who could be sasan about the room? One minute doing a dead-on impression of Sammy Davis Jr. And the next be downstairs in the closet like a pig and trying to tear his hair out from a distance. You wouldn't have been able to tell him from any other teenager. He had relatively good hygiene. Did not usually talk to himself in public, and it was something of a handsome devil with his dark hair hanging down over pale green eyes. Sometimes I would take him to a party or a dance with me and the girls would flock around us.

13 (39m 38s):
He could be as charming as Hugh Hefner in short bursts before he'd have to run off and hide in the bathroom. I remember once when I was nine or 10 and we were playing in the backyard, he kept pestering me saying, I am the Indian. You are the cowboy. Okay? I told him to shut his trap. I was busy building a cave for my army, man. He wouldn't give up me Indian, you cowboy. Okey-dokey. Over and over damnit Donald, you freak. I hollered.

13 (40m 18s):
Do whatever you want, but just shut up for a second. I'm not a freak. He said, sticking his chin out. All right. Then I said, the next time I looked up, Donald was on top of the doghouse with the bow and arrow set. My father had bought for him at a garage sale. He had the arrow notched and pulled back to his ear just like the Indians we saw on TV I hadn't noticed before, but now I saw that he had taken off his shirt and tucked it in the elastic of his shorts, so it looked like he was wearing a loin cloth and then used a little blood from the scab on his elbow to make fiendish red streaks across his face. He was doing it perfect, really just like a TV Indian.

13 (40m 59s):
I didn't believe he would really shoot me, so I just sat there like a jackass. My hands full of dirt. I didn't see him let go of the bow string, but I certainly did hear the thought the arrow made when it hit me in the chest dead center. More from the surprise than anything I felt flat on my back. It was only a target arrow, but it pierced my sternum just enough to stand upright from my chest waving around sluggishly like a reed in a river. I lay in the grass and stared up at the neon yellow fletching of the arrow. My hands, hands were still full of dirt. Donald jumped down from the doghouse and stood over me.

13 (41m 39s):
He was smiling an odd satisfied smile as if he was expecting to be congratulated on his marksmanship. He looked down at me for a long time before he gently put his hand around the shaft of the arrow without pulling it out. He said right smack dab in the heart, white

3 (41m 57s):
Man.

13 (42m 5s):
I told Donald I wanted him to name the armadillo after several days of deliberation. He decided to name it after Otis, the happy drunk on the Andy Griffith Show, who our father had resembled in almost eerie detail, I'd gotten used to taking care of Donald alone. I had no choice, but Otis was a different story. First of all, Otis smelled. He gave off a musky odor that intensified whenever he was nervous or hungry, and no matter if we scrubbed him raw with industrial soap and water, the smell would come back in an hour or so and then there was the furniture. Armadillos are burrowing animals. This is something I learned from my father and in the confines of our small apartment, Otis didn't have many opportunities to burrow.

13 (42m 50s):
Instead, he would march through the house like a tiny gray tank and move the furniture around. He'd waddle into the living room, put his blunt forehead against one of the legs of the coffee table and bear down, inching it around the room, his little squirrel cloth scrabbling on the wood floor. At least once a week, he would crawl between the mattress and box springs of my bed and take a dump. My father was right about armadillos. They are hardy, they're resourceful, and if Otis is typical or as dumb as donkey crap, sometimes in the course of his incessant apartment wandering Otis would find himself trapped in a corner and would spend the rest of the evening attempting to claw his way out.

13 (43m 39s):
Otis was technically my pet, but Donald cared for him, worried over him, tormented him, teased him, then made up with tearful professions of regret and affection while I was away at work. They would do things together. Donald would carry Otis around outside conversing with him, rooting in the weeds in the vacant lot, searching for earthworms or crickets for otis's dinner. Sometimes Donald would hide behind the recliner and when Otis passed by would jump out and shout in a high soprano whale. Look out Otis. Poor Otis would spring two feet into the air like a startled cat, his leathery body twisting his claws, clutching at nothing, and once he'd landed, he'd scurry into the hallway looking back over his shoulder, embarrassment in those little piggy eyes.

13 (44m 35s):
This kind of living arrangement was no boost to my social life. I can tell you if I ever wanted to bring a girl home, I figured I'd have some difficulty explaining why the apartment smelled like a bear's den, why the furniture was strewn around and why my brother was naked and hiding behind the couch waiting to scare the daylights out of an armadillo. It took five years before I found someone I loved enough to bring home. Allison was good about everything, told me I was a saint and a Christian to be taking care of Donald. She was so wonderful and beautiful and good smelly, and I could barely stand it. Eventually I proposed to her, after which I went home to talk to Donald.

13 (45m 15s):
It was springtime in the desert. The smell of cactus blossoms everywhere, and I was so full of love and desire, I could barely see straight. Alison and I had decided that we would get an apartment nearby that with my new promotion at Hassen Fers and Allison's job at the county courthouse, we could afford our own place and with the help of the government support Donald Donald would be all right as long as we checked on him daily, made sure he was taking his medication and occasionally washed down the place with ammonia so the smell wouldn't bother the neighbors. I have to admit the thought of escaping from Donald the notice and that cave of an apartment was almost as enticing as the thought of being together with Allison at home.

13 (45m 57s):
When I sat Donald down to explain things to him, I could barely get a word out. I stuttered and stammered kept wiping my mouth. When I finally made things clear, Donald whipped out his mini bible and frantically paged through it, but couldn't seem to come up with anything. The first time I had ever seen him at loss for a scripture, he yanked at his hair and ground his teeth together until they squeaked. Finally, without saying anything, he snatched up Otis who had been napping under one of the couch cushions and went into the laundry room, slamming the door behind him. I felt like kicking that door down and ringing his neck. Couldn't he at least try to be happy for me to think of somebody other than himself?

13 (46m 38s):
For one minute, I wanted only to be with Allison, and I hated Donald for making it so difficult. Hated him for the years of responsibility and obligation and lost opportunities. Hated him in the way. Only a brother can hate a brother. I took a few steps toward the stairwell to leave. I didn't care. I was going to stay at Allison's my first night ever away from Donald. When I heard a splashing noise from inside the apartment, the laundry room door was locked and I shouted Donald's name but got no response. I tried to kick in the door, which was made of something like cardboard.

13 (47m 20s):
My foot went right through it once I had my leg free. I looked through the splintered hole and could see Donald hunched over the overflowing utility sink. Both arms submerged up to his biceps. The back of his neck was purple and pulsing full of angry blood and it took me only a moment to understand he was trying to drown Otis. I unlocked the door and grabbed him from behind, but he resisted me gring and plunging Otis deeper into the water. I wrestled him out into the living room where we fell sideways against the couch. Donald twisted away from me and stood up the water, dripping off his elbows, forming a puddle around his shoes. Otis was curled up in a ball just like when he slept, and Donald began to shiver so badly that he lost his grip and let otis's body slide out of his hands and hit the floor with a wet slap.

13 (48m 11s):
Donald's face twisted into a mask of concentrated grief. See, he wept. See what I did? Looking at my brother, I felt all the parts of me that had been opening up since I had met Allison collapse on each other. Like so many empty rooms, it would have to be me and Donald Brothers inseparable. No one else allowed. I don't remember if I looked away or if it was as sudden as it seemed, but one moment, Otis was a sad wet corpse, as dead as an armadillo could be, and the next he was huffing and twitching and scrabbling to his feet. Donald let out an arching shriek, which sent Otis zigzagging into the kitchen where a mad cha ensued.

13 (48m 56s):
Donald slipping and flailing, knocking over chairs and pulling down the drapes, still choking and sobbing. Now with relief, he finally hurted Otis under the table, and once he had pulled him out, he held him up, his fingers locked in a death grip around his little body and cried. Otis is resurrected. Otis is resurrected a fair trade. Donald got his armadillo back and I got to marry Allison. Never again did Donald show any sign of jealousy or resentment. He was the best man at our wedding.

13 (49m 38s):
Read a long section from Z and I at the reception and even bought us a gift, a book called Hot Sex for Cold Fish. Things went well those first few years. We saved up enough to buy the concrete business from old Hassan Pfeffer, who retired to write his Harley around the continent, and Donald Aota seemed to thrive together. We stopped in to visit as often as we could. Allison cooked dinner for them on Tuesdays and Thursdays, and we paid a house cleaning service to scrub the apartment down every week, put the furniture back in place and steamed the carpets. Donald had his first episode one night while I was in Phoenix at a heavy equipment auction. They found him digging up the lawn in front of the city first bank B blabbering about how difficult it was to find high grade earthworms on the south end of town.

13 (50m 25s):
When the cops tried to approach him. He pelted them with dirt CLOs and threatened to eat a fistful of worms if they got any closer. He spent most of the night in the holding tank before Sheriff Brassy figured out who he was and gave me a call. A few months later, Donald climbed an old elm at the city park, which branched out over a sidewalk. He managed to pee on a few passers by before the groundskeeper knocked him off a branch with a well thrown rake. We took him to a doctor who adjusted his medication and suggested that Donald be put in a home where he could get the care and attention he needed, where he could socialize with somebody besides an armadillo. I brought up the subject with Donald, but he told me he would rather die than give up Otis and go live in a house with a bunch of half wits and knuckleheads.

13 (51m 11s):
The only other option we knew was taking in Donald to Otis ourselves. Alison was eight months pregnant with our second baby. The business was really starting to take off. It just wasn't a good time. We told ourselves we might be able to work something out in a few months when things had settled down. By the end of the summer, Donald was dead. The call came in the middle of the night like they always do. Sheriff Brass told me that Donald had been hit by a car on 87 near the refinery. He had run through traffic completely naked, dodging cars and sprinting down the median until an old coupled in a minivan, clipped him with their bumper, knocking him over a temporary still divider and onto a concrete platform where he was partially impaled by a jutting piece of rebar.

13 (52m 6s):
He bled to death before the ambulance arrived. After I went to the hospital to identify his body, I drove out to the accident site for half an hour. I combed both sides of the highway without a flashlight until I found Otis cowering under a piece of discarded plywood. His left four leg was mangled, nearly torn from his body, and he was bleeding from the soft flesh of his belly. I drove him over to the only veterinarian in town, Larry Oleander and pounded on the door until he answered.

13 (52m 48s):
Larry was an old retired cowboy with a glass eyeball and a dent in his head where a mule had kicked him. Jesus geronimo Christ. He said. It was four o'clock in the morning. I held Otis out to him and he said, what you have there is an armadillo. Fix him up. I said, son. He said, I don't know what you think do it. Larry Oleander appeared up at me, he side and held the screen door open, come the hell on in Larry amputated otis's leg, stitched up the wound on his underside and bandaged him until he looked like one big wad of gauze.

13 (53m 30s):
When I tried to pay him, he waved his hand in front of my face, took a slug off a bottle of vodka. He kept under the operating table. Jesus. Richard, just promise me you'll never make a peep about this to anybody. I took Otis home and he has been part of our family ever since. Over the last few years, I have added on a wing to the house just for him. He has a room with a skylight and two bay windows, his own pillow bed to sleep under and a bunch of old furniture to push around. As far as I'm aware, he is the only three-legged armadillo on earth with his own personal waiting pool.

13 (54m 13s):
Allison is not thrilled about having an armadillo in her home. Never has been, but she knows it's important to me. The kids, we have four of them now, can't stand Otis either. They want another pet, some kind of happy slobbering dog or an albino snake to impress their friends. Otis is not only real, real dumb, they argue, but also smells like dudu. They're not sure which is worse. I tell them they're correct, they'll get no disagreement from me. But Otis is our pet and we're going to love him no matter what. I try not to let myself forget how blessed I am. My beautiful family, my dream house up in the hills, a successful business that pretty much runs without me.

13 (54m 58s):
I am happy and satisfied most of the time, but every once in a while, maybe once or twice a year, something will come over me. A dark mood that I can't shake. Usually at night when everyone is asleep and the house is quiet and I'll get Otis out from under his pillow bed and take him upstairs. I run a bath sitting on the lip of the tub, holding him close to my chest the way he likes it. Usually I just let him paddle around. But sometimes when the tub is almost overflowing, I take him firmly in both hands and plunge him into the water. There's not a clock in the bathroom, so I count one alligator, two alligator, three alligator.

13 (55m 42s):
This is how I count off the seconds. Otis struggles like a tiny lion for the first two or three minutes, writhing and spasming wildly sending up a boiling foam of bubbles, fighting and scratching with everything he's got. And I hate myself for what I'm doing to him. Usually between the fourth and fifth minute is when he starts to lose his will and his thrashing weakens as he gradually curls up in on himself like a flower dying and goes utterly still, this is always the hardest part for me.

13 (56m 22s):
The urge to pull him out is almost unbearable. But I go five or 10 seconds longer than the last time. One alligator, two alligator, three alligator, four alligator, five alligator. Until I can't stand it anymore. I lift him out and he lies there in my hands, like a deflated soccer ball. And I'm sick with dread, knowing that this time I've taken it too far. I've killed him. I stare down at him and wait hardly blinking, wait for that first twitch or jerk for his nostrils to flare with life. And usually there's an almost imperceptible shutter from under his hard shell.

13 (57m 6s):
A stirring and his tail will begin to vibrate like a piano wire. And he slowly hesitantly, opens up and stretches himself, clawing the air and coughing like a newborn, sitting on the edge of the bathtub with Otis, wet and dripping in my arms. I'm always overcome with the same vision. Donald clutching a newly revived Otis. His face slick with tears transformed from a man twisted inside out with grief to someone awestruck at the realization that our worst mistakes can be retrieved. That death can be traded in for life. That what has been destroyed can be made whole again With a sudden surge.

13 (57m 47s):
Otis struggles to get out of my lap. He is an armadillo and there is exploring to do. I let him down and watch him slide around on the linoleum and try to push the toilet off its base. And I feel a small bitter joy lodge in my heart. Otis is resurrected. I whisper. I carry him to his room and make sure he is comfortable under his pillow bed. And only then will I be able to walk peacefully through the dark, quiet halls of my home. Kiss each of my children. Good night and lie down next to my wife to sleep.

1 (58m 27s):
Brady Udall. His short story, Otis is resurrected, was first published in Story Magazine. It is a work of fiction. No armadillos were harmed in the making of this radio story.

14 (59m 7s):
She said she hurt. Feeling I'm gonna A dog. A dog. Why? I need a friend now,

15 (59m 21s):
Babe, you need all the you can get. I'm telling

14 (59m 23s):
You I'm gonna

1 (59m 26s):
Well program Introduced today by Alex Bloomberg and myself, Susan Burton Blue Chevy and Julie Snyder with production help from Alvin mek. Additional help on today's rerun from Ella Mustafa Stone Nelson and Matt Tierney. In the 20 plus years since we first broadcaster story and Act two about Veronica Chat's Macau. She has published a memoir which includes life with Mac Mcca. It's called Waiting for the Apocalypse. Checking with her this month. She said that as time passed, her kids did come to love Gideon. They fed her. They bathed her. They built various outdoor climbing contraptions for her. Gideon died three years ago at nearly 40 years old. She says, you know, cried when she died. Special thanks today to the student staff of WVU in Morgantown, in West Virginia, to Mary Zimmerman, to the late Larry Josephson and to Deborah and Steven Diggs.

1 (1h 0m 11s):
Our website, this american life.org. This American Life is delivered to public radio stations by prx, the Public Radio Exchange. Thanks is always your program's co-founder, Mr. To Troy Mount. No, it's weird. We've known each other for years. Years, but every time I try to give him a hug, he starts yelling.

4 (1h 0m 29s):
Somebody helped me. This stranger is trying to hurt me. And I don't know why

1 (1h 0m 34s):
America has back next week with more stories of this American life.

16 (1h 0m 38s):
Now

14 (1h 0m 42s):
I'm gonna buy me a dog. Yes sir. I'm gonna buy me a dog. If I was looking for a word to describe what I'm gonna buy, I think dog would be the word. It would be dog. Definitely come springing for my lips. Dogs,

16 (1h 0m 55s):
Can you turn it up please? Can me off? The door is out. Coming to away.