1 (1s):
Support for This American Life comes from the Capital One Savor card earned four percent cash back on dining and entertainment 2% at grocery stores and one percent on all other purchases. Now when you go out you cash in what's in your wallet terms apply. Support for This American Life comes from the new freeform comedy. Everything's going to be okay from executive producers of please like me and catastrophe Nicholas a 20-something man child becomes legal guardian to his two half sisters after their father dies. Everything's going to be okay January 16th on freeform WBZ Chicago to This American Life.

1 (43s):
I'm Ira Glass quick warning to everybody who's listening to this podcast version of our show. There are some words that we have. Beeped there were in the broadcast version. If you don't want to hear these words, maybe it will stay with children. You can get a beep version at our website This American Life dot-org Harvey Weinstein has gone on trial and we thought this would be a good moment to replay the show that we did two years ago. There's not about somebody famous is not about accusations of rape. In fact, what was so powerful about the our said it Illustrated so vividly how all kinds of other Behavior by a boss comments and simulations can affect employees so deeply, The reporting on Harvey Weinstein over the last few years has led millions of women to rethink a directions.

1 (1m 24s):
They've had with male bosses

2 (1m 25s):
and co-workers

1 (1m 27s):
Partners. This is a story about that happening. There's put together by one of our producers Kana Jeffy Walt. We're going to play you the original story that we broadcasted March 2018 with a brief update at the end. Here's gonna

3 (1m 40s):
when Vivian started reading about the men in Hollywood and the media and their sexual transgressions. She thought of the men in her past who had behaved Really the man who assaulted her in her 20s and the

1 (1m 52s):
others a few unwanted kisses over the I mean truly unwanted drunken guys just sort of pushing themselves on me and you know, the usual array of jokes and comments in this and that

3 (2m 5s):
she thought of them and she thought of done her partner of 23 years and Vivian wondered Don was a boss to dozens of women here an alternate a progressive News website. And he was a flirt. It

1 (2m 20s):
was easy for me to imagine that Dawn had missed unspoken signals being a little to present a little too close a little too eager a little too, you know, those kinds of things she'd seen it she'd

3 (2m 35s):
seen Downs attention make women uncomfortable at parties and restaurants. And what would end up happening is I would

1 (2m 42s):
catch her eye and we would roll our eyes together like, oh God men there would be a sort of a Onto there and it would go you know and things would go on.

3 (2m 51s):
This is like Don flirting with some woman in front of you.

1 (2m 55s):
Yeah, he was a flirt. Yes. I knew he was a flirt. I also really knew that didn't have anything to do with us that had to do with the need of Need for attention.

3 (3m 5s):
Did that feel did you feel embarrassed by it? Of course, of course, but it would pass quickly. It was usually very easy to move things along then I could

1 (3m 15s):
step in I could set up between I cooked, you know engage her in conversation. Whatever

3 (3m 20s):
right? Would you talk to Don about it

1 (3m 24s):
rarely? Because I didn't think I'd be believed him by him. I think he sort of laugh it off and say oh you just don't get it. It's all in fun, which I do think was his attitude. I China was his

2 (3m 39s):
attitude.

3 (3m 42s):
So in 2017 when Don told Vivian that BuzzFeed news was writing a story about him. Vivian was not surprised people who used to work for Don at alternate were accusing done of sexually harassing them. Vivian read the article a number of women detailed encounters with Don unwanted advances inappropriate touching sending them explicit emails Vivian recognized on and some parts others felt like they were describing a person she'd never met. Mostly. She had a particular experience reading that story that actually had nothing to do with Don a memory came

1 (4m 19s):
back to me when I was 28 that I'm sure I hadn't thought about since it happened. She was training to be a A psychologist

3 (4m 27s):
with a bunch of young trainees at a clinic she was in the back room where the staff took breaks and wrote notes.

1 (4m 33s):
The supervisor was a man as virtually all the supervisors at the time were in his 40s, maybe even early 50s

3 (4m 43s):
Vivian was on the couch with a friend a woman in her 40s and the two of them watched as many of the young psychology interns women Vivian's age in their 20s crowded around the supervisor. They're surrounding him and

1 (4m 58s):
and sort of hanging on his words and leaning in and it's just got that no offense his words weren't that interested, you know, it's like they were fine. But oh my God, and he was eating it up, you know, you could just see like he loved this and then I'm sitting at the back of the room on the couch and with this other woman Lynn and she looks up she goes the cupcake. Ex Vivian

3 (5m 27s):
lost it. She loved this word. It was perfect. And you understood immediately that that was meant to refer to the women who are surrounding

1 (5m 37s):
absolutely absolutely and you know, and I was really proud that she was basically saying you're not one of them, you know, I did not want to be one of them.

3 (5m 48s):
She's basically saying you're cool and they're

1 (5m 50s):
not exactly exactly like like we are grown-up women and they are not. Okay. Yeah, that's who I want to be

3 (5m 58s):
that is where her mind went reading about her partner of two decades. In the news the cupcakes Vivian felt full of regret. She regretted her contempt for the cupcakes what I found so interesting about this was for Vivian learning the news about Don sparked this memory. That was not about Don but explain something to her about who she is and how she is and the choices and assumptions. She's made in her life. Now I want to tell you about another group of people. I've been talking to the women who worked for Don including women who say they were harassed by him. I talked with them and they shall be their done stories.

3 (6m 39s):
But they also did the same thing Vivian did they brought up specific experiences from their past things that happened years ago because for them that stuff in the past feels related to their experiences with

2 (6m 53s):
Don

3 (7m 0s):
In the flood of me to Revelations. I keep wanting to hear more from the women who are in these news reports their broader history. Not just the bad experience. They had with one man at an office or on a movie set, but the other moments before the harassment who these women were when they entered the workplace shaped their reactions to what happened and its effect on them. There is no me to moment that is actually separate from the rest of our lives. So today's show five women tell their stories Vivian and the for women who worked for her partner Don. He's him over the course of many years at different times with a wide range of experiences.

3 (7m 43s):
We're going to hear from each of them one at a time about their experiences with Don and their experiences before don don resigned from his job following these accusations. He told me the board that oversees Alternet insisted. He couldn't talk on the record. I can tell you some about his version of events, but you won't be hearing from him. It's not a story about him. It's about them these five women. With these women are doing is what I think so many of us have been doing lately. They're doing it in ways. I found Brave and vulnerable. They're re-evaluating who they are how they related to men how they came to think of certain things as normal.

3 (8m 24s):
It's a reckoning Not Just For Men for women. It's This American Life. I'm Connor Jaffe Walt stay with us. This is probably evident by now. But just to say we will talk about sex in this show not just its existence but some of the specifics and there are some moments of abuse. So take this as a heads up. Okay, the women who worked for Don at alternate beginning with Act One, Deanna.

3 (9m 5s):
The list started when Dianna was eight years old. The First on it was face from The A-Team Deanna got a postcard of him that year when her family went to Universal Studios. She put a puffy red heart sticker on it took it with her during the day

1 (9m 19s):
slept with it at night and I actually and I'm eight and I felt like I was going to die if I never met him I actually thought I would die. I was like, I will I will cease to exist if I don't get to meet this person.

3 (9m 29s):
The next one made her cry. He was 12. So was she Deanna called her aunt rose from the base? Distressed she'd written him letters dedicated a song to him on the radio and nothing no response. And Rose was quick to deliver

1 (9m 43s):
advice. This is the way boys are They don't understand you. They are dumb. They do not get you your strong and smart and independent and that just is never going to make sense to men

3 (10m 0s):
it Rose explained. It would be Deanna's job to make sense of things to men if she was going to have relationships with them. It had never be easy and it would be on her to figure it out boys were too dumb to do it for

2 (10m 12s):
themselves.

3 (10m 14s):
Jai's dad was a minister Jay liked mom. Python and had a car and very few opinions.

1 (10m 21s):
He was incredibly sweet and he was very much whatever you want to do. Well, what do you want to do? You know not super motivated on his own. I would like come along with me

3 (10m 30s):
when Dianna went away to college. Jay said I'll come too when she broke up with him his mom called her mom to ask if there was any way they could get back together. Chris worked at the dollar store in the mall. Chris wanted more from his life. Deanna was 19 and got him a job on the other side of the mall at a Sam. Goody. She used to work at she wanted more for him too. He was funny and Moody and he was the first person Deanna had sex with Mark wanted a job in film or TV, but nobody wanted to give him film or TV jobs. It was his idea to move to New York. And once they were there Deanna got a job first as a bookkeeper. Mark got no job. She called his friends his friends friends and found mark and it job which he hated.

3 (11m 15s):
So she found him another job at a magazine. He worked there for the next 10 years. Deanna moved out through weeks before 911. There was the German the Israeli with the Burger Joint men seem to want wives and Deanna didn't want to be a wife men also seem to want her that had no thoughts about what else that might look like. They don't get you her mom would say on the phone. You have to show them how to be with you. The Iraq War was starting and so is a presidential race Deanna volunteered for the Howard Dean campaign. He had a rally in New York before her 28th birthday while she was at the rally.

1 (11m 58s):
This guy comes up to me and he's got a reporter's pad and he said hey after he's done talking, you know, can I talk to you and I said sure and he said you're a volunteer I said, yeah, and we talked for a really long time and I actually got into an argument with him about Dennis kucinich. He was Pro she understood but

3 (12m 18s):
come on that guy could never win and then he said well, you

1 (12m 21s):
know, can I have your email address? I'll send you the article when it's done and I was like sure you know, what are you writing for? Whatever he was. Echo I'm the executive editor of alternate

3 (12m 30s):
Don he's in alternate was not a major publication but Deanna knew it. She read it all the time. The next day down Center is article very Pro Dean and a personal note to her

1 (12m 43s):
see how much you influence me already and I was like, well, that's cool. I just convinced this like editor guy. That's awesome. I was like, that's really cool. Like what made you change your mind? It started up this email conversation.

3 (12m 58s):
He asked about her was she hoping to get into politics. What was her job. Did she like it? What else did she want to do?

1 (13m 6s):
It seemed really kind and a little bit flirtatious, but I was fine with that. Like I was I liked having this super interesting compelling man interested in me

3 (13m 20s):
Don lived in California, but had an apartment in New York for work. Deanna. Couldn't quite guess his age. She thought maybe mid 40s.

1 (13m 28s):
He was 56.

3 (13m 30s):
He'd be coming out to New York again. Did you want to get dinner? I

1 (13m 33s):
kind of figured it was a date and I did feel flirtatious with him. I did feel like this is

3 (13m 41s):
fun. It was fun. He walked her home. They talked about the party. She was planning for her 20th birthday where she should have it. They made it out outside her apartment. The next day done asked her out again dinner and this time back to his apartment. They were making out got naked and when she felt him push inside her Deanna was startled it was abrupt and he wasn't wearing a condom Indiana's experience. Someone always went and got the condom that had never happened before she felt slow like she was floating in a silent conversation with herself.

1 (14m 19s):
Should I say something? I think it's okay. I mean I don't really want to stop things.

3 (14m 30s):
He's older. She thought guys like that aren't getting around be nice to him. You're on birth control.

1 (14m 37s):
You're not getting axed murdered right now. You're having a good time. You're fine. All right. Let's just do

3 (14m 45s):
this. It was new and adventurous and that's who Deanna wanted to be plus she felt powerful in that

1 (14m 53s):
moment. This is something that I am bestowing upon him this youthful gift this youthful body or something. I you like. I did feel that way and kind of like I was doing him a favor and he steamed very like grateful and I had not had that experience before. Are the 25 year old boy who knew as it turns out different real different. So yeah, I definitely felt like this was a rare thing for him. Uh-huh.

3 (15m 26s):
She thought about the condom thing again on the way home. Deanna's story about Don the he was a good guy a grown-up self-actualized man who was taken by her was a so a story about herself. She was powerful interesting could change his mind on important issues. Use the fact that he never even thought to ask about protection. It just didn't make sense. And so I my default

1 (15m 52s):
was to trust that it was going to be

3 (15m 53s):
okay. It did not make sense to me and I made sense of it and that carried through the entire relationship Don started giving her work. He wanted her to help manage a big project for alternate. Deanna said, yes. Don't that she was a poor fit for her corporate job. She agreed when he was in town. They get dinner spend the night or a weekend which she loved and then he leave which she also loved Dan did not need things from her as her other boyfriend's had it was the opposite he set things up for her.

3 (16m 35s):
He had an apartment for her to crash in. He had contacts. You should meet he bought her her first Mac laptop. He helped her quit smoking dinner was on him. And he did it all without demanding. She be a wife. It was seven months later that Deanna learned Don had a wife a partner actually a distinction without a difference as far as Deanna was concerned since Don explained that this was a woman he'd been with for years Vivian who you heard from earlier. They owned a house together and she didn't know about Deanna. She says it was one of their first fights.

1 (17m 10s):
I can't believe you lied to me and he was like, I didn't lie to you. I never lied to you and I was like a lying by Omission is still lying and he Was like you knew and I'll never forget this word. He said you've you've been colluding with me all along and I was like I

3 (17m 27s):
don't think so. But she went back to old emails to references down would make to his domestic situation. Maybe she hadn't wanted to know she stopped sleeping with him. She kept working for him by now. They're working on a book together that meant seeing him and when she saw him she did inevitably sleep with him again. She liked him their conversations their connection. He wasn't

1 (17m 57s):
Thrown by me in a way that felt like other men had been he wasn't he just wasn't afraid of me.

3 (18m 5s):
He saw her as she wanted to be seen. She stayed in the secret affair ignored his daily phone calls home to Vivian. Deanna wanted more time with Don more contact as he did with her. He could be annoying about it. She started a folder called his where are you emails? So he didn't like lack of contact or the wrong kind of

1 (18m 29s):
contact he would say, why did you email me about personal stuff? There's no work info in here. Like I need to know what's happening. I need to know where things are. I need to know what we're working on and I'm like, okay, so it's entering the work email. Why isn't there anything emotional here? Don't you love me? I guess you don't care about me. Like you would send these like super victim emails. That was also the point where he started talking to me more about about the staff and his frustrations at work and his you know, I don't want to do all this anymore, but everyone's

3 (18m 56s):
No,

1 (18m 56s):
that works for me is so incompetent that I have to be in there all the time like doing all these things for them

3 (19m 2s):
by now. Deanna had met a lot of Don's staff. He'd started flying her out to California as a consultant for alternate. So she'd see him and his

1 (19m 10s):
office. He was just a very demanding boss. Just yelling at people like why can't you get this right? And what's wrong with you?

3 (19m 19s):
Deanna tried to make sense of this Behavior. He was angry and insecure this was Not the easygoing confident man, she'd signed up for she wanted to be supportive the way he'd been supportive of her. But this felt all new to her.

1 (19m 37s):
If we had been to an event together. He would watch how much I was drinking and would accuse me later of drinking too much and being too tired to want to have sex with him and starting a fight about that. What do you mean? Why not? Why are you tired?

3 (19m 53s):
Like I had a really long day. He's like, well, you knew you were seeing me

1 (19m 55s):
tonight like Why did you have a long day? Like why did you do so much and I'm like well, why don't I was working for you

3 (20m 1s):
and to you know,

1 (20m 2s):
and like I would defend myself and then he would get really like assertive and like red-faced eyes bulging, you know veins popping and he was scary as shit when he was

3 (20m 14s):
angry. Deanna started giving into sex not I don't feel like it but I love you sex. This was sex to end a fight having sex could shut down the behavior that was not making sense the parts that did not fit into Deanna's story of a powerful woman who was having adventures with a man who was not challenged by her power.

3 (20m 55s):
Back to the dinner in Asia had just started at alternate. She was still getting a lay of the land. She was bright ambitious ready for her chance and here it was the staff was friendly the boss. Don was too sometimes

1 (21m 12s):
Don was a very very Mercurial very very moody. Sometimes it would be like compliments and praise other times it would just he would be like Furious. About the pettiest thing

3 (21m 26s):
but she generally escaped his anger a nation learned early how to anticipate his moods keep it professional. She kept her distance a couple months in the hole alternate staff got together for some meetings. Everyone came down flew a couple people out from New York including a consultant for alternate named Deanna and Asia didn't know Deanna really she seemed nice after the meetings. They all went out to dinner and aneisa. Saw that Deanna was Sitting next to Don but made nothing of that it was an issue as colleague Laura who noticed it first. Here's Laura

1 (22m 2s):
during that dinner. I glanced over and noticed that she was cutting up the meat on Don's plate like his steak or something and I was just like what I was just like what is happening. This is this is so strange to me

3 (22m 16s):
cutting his meat like she was leaning over his plate. Yeah.

1 (22m 20s):
Yeah, there was sitting right next to each other in a tight, you know, it was It's a big

3 (22m 24s):
table but a crowded restaurant so they were sitting very close together. And she was just like leaning over like like it was her plate. But

1 (22m 31s):
like I mean, it's not normal. It's just not normal. You know, it's just like why why

3 (22m 37s):
would he need that? Why would she

1 (22m 39s):
need to do that? Why was he letting her do that? Did he

3 (22m 43s):
ask her to do it? I don't know. Yeah, I mean it was something about it. That was just very

1 (22m 46s):
profoundly disturbing. I was so weird. Oh, she's like cutting his meat for him.

3 (22m 53s):
Anisha eventually noticed it too and she could not figure out what is up with this woman.

1 (22m 60s):
I just don't understand this Dynamic like the manual I had constructed on how to like navigate and deal with Don. I was just like flipping through all the pages. I was like, nope. Nope. Nope. Nope. What? No, I have no guide for this just like where to place this Behavior

3 (23m 19s):
Laura couldn't place it either. There's really no rationalization. I could think

1 (23m 23s):
of no possible reason for that to be a thing happening right at that moment that made sense beyond their sleeping together,

3 (23m 31s):
but it still didn't make sense after that dinner Laura and Anisha left and never mentioned it. They didn't talk to each other about it or anyone else in the office. Anisha says, it just didn't feel like fun office gossip. It felt like something she didn't want anything to do with She didn't know anything about the woman sitting in that chair next to Don but in the Asia had always known she did not want to be in that chair. act 3 Anisha most of the girls quit being friends with boys earlier, but in Asia was 13 and she still liked her friends that summer she hung out with the same boy.

3 (24m 16s):
She always had in the same places the kitchen her friends basement playroom, or

1 (24m 22s):
we would all go to the pool together and I had this like tie-dyed bathing suit this one piece and you like most of my other friends were like wearing bikinis, but you know, it was like no, I'm good

3 (24m 34s):
at the snack bar. They get popsicles, you

1 (24m 36s):
know, they're always be like talk about like the scene at the You know like talking about like different girls like that would occasionally like be part of the conversation. I think they probably like rained it in when I was around but there would occasionally be comments and so they were like they had like named someone like the hypnotizer like there's this like, you know title for like some woman

3 (24m 57s):
it would have been nothing if it was like the other girls they talked about a passing thing. But this one persisted for weeks. It got to a

1 (25m 4s):
point I recall were like they talked about it enough that I was like, oh, who is she, you know, I wanted to be Beyond in on it. I was like show her to me, you know, and they were all cryptic about it. They're like, oh the hypnotizer the hypnotizer. Oh, she's here or like did you see the hypnotizer and I can remember I found out but eventually I found it. It was

3 (25m 21s):
me. It was the first time an Asia had the feeling there was her and there was someone else she hadn't known was there a person who looked good to these boys her friends. I guess a part of me was

1 (25m 35s):
pleased by that, but the more prevalent Lange was like like Whiplash. They were talking about me in front of me. It's like there was the me that was present in there interacting with them. And then there was just like other like separate objectified body. It just feels like this whole other person enters the room

3 (25m 59s):
another person. Who is you? Yeah.

1 (26m 2s):
Well her like I guess you fundamentally I felt the same but suddenly I had to reckon with the fact that I did not look the same to other people.

3 (26m 11s):
It was obvious to a nation how to reckon with that. She To crush that other person she did not want to wear the tie dye bathing suit ever again. She slouched she wore baggy clothes. It wasn't like a decision or anything. It was just Instinct. She watched the girls in bikinis that summer and considered if they somehow had the opposite instinct or maybe they had made a decision to actively try to merge the two girls the one with breasts and the one from before it really seemed easy for some of them like they welcome. And it

1 (26m 45s):
in a part of me wishes that I could do that sort of own it, you know and like use it like a power and and it's just never struck me as a power. It does it feels like a false power. It feels like if if that is somehow getting me attention like it could turn like that's not a safe kind of power to traffic in.

3 (27m 7s):
By the time and Asia met Don she wouldn't have been able to say if wearing loose clothing was her fashion sense or strategy. She was 23 years old. She's been guarding against that separate person the hypnotizer for a decade by that point alternate was an Asia's first real job. The first time she had a desk that was hers. The first time she learned a male colleague was getting paid more than her for the same work the first time she asked for a raise from her boss, Don, which did not go how Nisha expected

1 (27m 39s):
yes. Oh, I like build this whole case and I get in there and I'm nervous. I you know have my opening for a where I'm just like, you know, I've I've been doing X and Y and the quality of the work I've been doing I've been working really hard and I'm a you know, and it's hard to survive in the city unlike such a low salary and he just like latched on to that. He kind of leaned in and was like, oh, are you having trouble paying rent? And I remember that so specifically because it was like my rent. It was so oddly personal and unnecessary and like out of left field and like I was completely disarmed.

1 (28m 22s):
I didn't know how to respond. I think I just sort of stuttered and was like, no. It's like not that he

3 (28m 31s):
wasn't offering to pay her rent directly. Just did she need a salary increase to help pay her rent. Which in Asia did not want to talk about

1 (28m 40s):
I don't remember whether I said like no, I'm not having trouble paying rent. I think I tried to avoid answering that because I didn't want like I felt like that was none of his business, but when I tried to shift the conversation Back to like this is about being compensated. I don't remember if he got like angry angry, but he was definitely visibly displeased and he he did not want to give me a

3 (29m 4s):
race instead. He offered her a title change. We bit have you what would have

1 (29m 10s):
happened had you said?

3 (29m 11s):
Yeah. I am having trouble paying my rent. He would have he would have won. Would have been you would have would have won a little

1 (29m 19s):
a little corner of more

3 (29m 21s):
power over me. Wait, but it would he have paid it. Would you have gotten so so you would have fun you would have gotten more money? No, I would have lost. Anisha felt like Don was not talking to her but to the hypnotizer that he did not want to engage her as a professional discussing her compensation. But as an attractive young woman struggling with her rent, he didn't want to be a boss paying for her work but a savior paying for her life. Anisha didn't want that kind of help.

1 (29m 59s):
Maybe it's kind of petty but I was like you are not gonna win like you don't get to have

3 (30m 5s):
this. So she won but she didn't get a raise. act for the cliff the summer of an Asia's first year at Alternet Don left for several weeks of sabbatical a friend had offered down the use of his vacation house in Big Sur, California. He headed out and wrote Deanna asking her to join him. It's the Cliff of the universe. He wrote what someone calls the greatest meeting of land and sea Deanna wrote back bring me soon, please.

3 (30m 48s):
Don floor out picked her up from the airport and they drove to the house together.

1 (30m 53s):
We went to bed and started fooling around and he stops and he says we probably shouldn't have sex and I said, how come

3 (31m 7s):
Dan said he had an STI a sexually transmitted infection. He'd had it for a long time hadn't had symptoms in years

1 (31m 15s):
and I was just started like I actually We got dizzy. I'm like hold up. What wait we have been having sex without condoms for two years. And now you're telling me that you and he was like, it's not a big deal. I've had it since I was 16 and I was like, it's definitely a big fucking deal and I got really angry. Like I cannot believe you would risk my health this way unlike that it out. This is really fucked up and he was like, why are you getting so upset about this is not a big deal. I was like, yes it most certainly this is an STI like and he's like I cannot understand why I am upset at all

3 (31m 52s):
eventually done did seem to get that Deanna was upset and began to comfort her. She calmed down wanted to go to

1 (31m 59s):
sleep. He started wanted to fool around again. I don't have time for this right now like the soft feels and he was like, well, we don't have to have sex and whatever and then he was like we can have anal sex. And I was like blink blink. No,

3 (32m 19s):
she did not want to do

1 (32m 20s):
that. And he we were naked in bed. He was spooning me and he made a move like he was going to penetrate me. And I jumped up and yelped. What the fuck and I was like, what are you doing? And he was like, what do you mean? What am I doing? I'm just you know, like I want to be with you. I want to be like, you know, and I was like you're starting to pressure me and it's starting to make me really uncomfortable. This is messed up and he flipped out he stood up and he just started screaming.

3 (32m 60s):
At me

1 (33m 0s):
he was like, how can you say that? How can you say that? I'm pressuring you I am the most feminist man, you know, and you know it and that's fucked up. So he starts screaming at me like the eyes bulging like the red

3 (33m 11s):
screaming. I am the most feminist man.

1 (33m 13s):
Yes, and then he the bedroom was sort of right on the other side of the kitchen and he goes into the kitchen and just start slamming stuff and like throwing stuff and I'm just hearing shit smashing in the other room, and I am naked in some dudes bed. And fucking Big Sur. I don't know how to get out. and eventually just stopped. I just sat there the whole time like I didn't know you're in you're in the bed. Yeah, I just stated the bed. He came back eventually and slept with his back to me which was like his culture older maybe and I just laid there thinking like I don't know what's going to happen next because I really didn't want to challenge him.

1 (34m 6s):
I just had to start making sense of everything around me and being okay with

3 (34m 10s):
everything. So if you're not going to challenge him or talk to him about it

1 (34m 14s):
then how are you going to make sense of it? Shut this out don't think about this again and do whatever you can to not make it happen again.

3 (34m 29s):
Deanna would manage manage her feelings his temper manage them away from explosive moments. This is what it meant to be close to someone managing a relationship was a role Deanna had practice in it made sense to her.

1 (34m 44s):
I have been told my whole life that I was going to have difficult relationships with men that none of this was going to be easy that they warned me that this was how my relationships were going to be. They were going to be very difficult and challenging and so this

3 (34m 57s):
Like okay. That was how it was going to be for me. It took three years for Deanna to break up with Don after that. She wasn't angry when she did just tired and sad she told him she loved him, but she couldn't keep doing this. He wasn't angry either. She thought he would be but he was gentle he said he knew the day would come they both cried after that should still run into him at professional or social events. They're friendly a few years after they broke up. Deanna went to a protest Uptown

1 (35m 31s):
and my We're staging part of the protest. So I went to to be supportive and I ran into Don there and he was like, well, this is something you know, we were just kind of like chit-chatting. I hadn't seen him in a while and you know, whatever whatever and we're kind of walking along with the protests and talking to different people.

3 (35m 49s):
There was a young woman walking nearby with a reporter's notepad. She was looking around and quickly scribbling notes

1 (35m 56s):
and I actually watch like I felt like watching the Terminator a little bit he just Just looked and like zeroed in on her and just beelined over to her and said who are you writing for and she's like, oh, you know, I'm a student like and he's like you don't have a place for this article yet. I'll give you a place for that. You know, do you want to pitch me and she was like you who

3 (36m 17s):
are you you know, and he

1 (36m 18s):
introduces himself says, all right. She was like, oh, it'd be great to write for alternate.

3 (36m 22s):
He really just came out of nowhere. This is Kristen. Kristen was a determined 21 year old who bought the same breakfast sandwich from the same cat. A every day because she knew what you liked and she had no need for wasting time. Kristen had never actually heard of alternate, but she knew she wanted to be a reporter and this guy had a business card and she didn't I was a journalism

1 (36m 45s):
student undergrad at NYU

3 (36m 48s):
done told her to send him/her article and if it was good, he publish it. Kristen said she definitely would Deanna was off to the side watching and I

1 (36m 57s):
got so mad. Because it just seems so gross and I heard that tone of voice and I had remembered how he had said things like that to me. Like I'll give you a doll, you know, like I'll help you I'll support you and I got so angry. I just looked at him. I was like, I can't fucking believe you and he's like what and I was like, I'm out of here. I'm good. I'm

3 (37m 18s):
done. The story they had created together had just been obliterated. They weren't co-creators. This was his story. Deanna was a set piece. Yep.

1 (37m 38s):
It made me so sick to my stomach. I wasn't that special and like seeing her kind of like brightness and enthusiasm. Like wow, someone wants to give me an opportunity cool.

2 (37m 50s):
I was so

3 (37m 51s):
angry I was so angry. Oh God. Deanna left went home. Kristen went home to she wrote and rewrote her article until it was 2:00 in the morning. And she knew she had to get it off to Don and I was excited. Yeah, I thought wow what a this is a crazy, you know just chance incident and maybe this will be good and turned into something and it did turn into something. Coming up the story starts over but it's going to go so differently next time that's in a minute from Chicago public radio when our program

1 (38m 36s):
continues. Support for This American Life comes from the Capital One Saver Card with a Capital One Saver Card. You earned four percent cash back on dining and entertainment that means four percent on milkshakes with the kids and 4% on music with your pals. You'll also earn 2% cash back at grocery stores and one percent on all other purchases. Now when you go out you cash in Capital One what's in your wallet terms apply. Support for This American Life comes from free form with the new comedy. Everything's going to be okay 20-something Nicholas has never been particularly helpful in raising his two teenage sisters, but when their father becomes terminally ill Nicholas is the only one left to teach his younger sisters about life love and all the other things.

1 (39m 25s):
He still hasn't learned himself what could go wrong? Everything's going to be okay premieres on Thursday, January 16th at 8:30 7:30 central on freeform.

3 (39m 37s):
It's This American Life. I'm Connor Joffrey Walt Today's Show five women. We wanted to take one of the me to stories where you hear about encounters women had with men who abuse their power in the workplace and expand that to look at the lives of the women before the encounter Today's show was first broadcast two years ago. We're telling the story of several women who worked for the same person Don Hazen at alternate over the course of 13 years. So we We met Deanna and in Asia and we just met Kristen the student at NYU. Kristen is going to come back. You need to meet someone else first. Act 5 Tana.

3 (40m 19s):
Tana was asked to have an opinion about Anita Hill. It was 1991 and she was in the third grade her opinion was that it was wrong because she knew that was the opinion. She was supposed to have the opinion Tana actually had was not when she imagined the adults were asking for

1 (40m 37s):
I remember thinking that it wasn't that big of a deal but I think that my natural instinct and mean again, I was a child was maybe people are going free. A little bit too much maybe everyone should be a little bit more chill

3 (40m 51s):
by 10th grade. She was stronger in her conviction. She knew about sex and she knew about feminism and she believed that if Monica Lewinsky wanted to have sex with someone or blow them or whatever actually happened in the Oval Office. That was her choice men had been allowed to follow their Bliss forever. They went a little too far but that have been corrected and now Tana could see things had swung too far in the

1 (41m 16s):
Other direction. Oh, nobody can have sex anymore. That's terrible. That was the impression. I got like I just Envision the u.s. Workplace as you know, a bunch of bureaucratic fun hating HR people taking you to jail. If you said someone looked

3 (41m 33s):
nice one of her first bosses was Jeff he ran a shop in town Thomas had just started college, but it was summer. So she spent most of her days at the shop

1 (41m 44s):
and he would always tell me these awful things about his A wife where he'd say, you know, she's so beautiful when she walks down a restaurant all men, you know Whiplash to check her out, but I'm just sick of her when I go out to dinner. Can I get you a sandwich? You know, like you're so tiny. Can I grab your waist? He definitely tried to physically grab me a lot.

3 (42m 4s):
It was irritating but 10 of tried really hard not to show it because Jeff was middle-aged miserable. She'd heard his wife kicked him out. A co-worker said he found Jeff in the shop one morning waking up, sir. Ended by beer bottles, he made Tana uncomfortable, but he was so pitiful that it felt unreasonable to attach any value to her discomfort like when her friend at work a guy her age told her Jeff

1 (42m 29s):
always talks about you. It's really creepy and he goes Jeff's always talks to me about how he just wants to put his head between your breasts and just go like the motorboating. Sound in this guy said that I was like are you kidding me? That's the saddest thing. That's where twelve-year-old would say. This is a grown-ass man. How could he say that? I was were being like so grossed out Jeff denies all of this. By the

3 (42m 58s):
way, Tana did tell her parents though. It took her a while. They're protective. She was worried they make her quit and then they were driving one day her mom her. Dad Taun it in the

1 (43m 8s):
backseat that I was like Mom and Dad have something to tell you and I was very dramatic about it and they're like what happened and we'd like taking Deep breath and saying I've been sexually harassed and they kind of laughed in my face and they were like, what the hell do you expect your 19 year old woman, of course, you're being sexually harassed. I thought oh, that's just the thing that happens that I can accept everywhere. I'm going to

3 (43m 30s):
work. Kind of work a lot of different jobs and got a lot of Education college graduate school, which do not open a path to a graduate school job, but a job at a Whole Foods. That's when a roommate told her she knew and editor of a political news website Watanabe

1 (43m 49s):
interested. I can't even imagine a world in which like I would go from work at a Whole Foods to work in journalism. She was like, well just have an interview with this guy

3 (43m 56s):
on her way out the door to meet done. Her roommate said if you get that job, you'll definitely be sexually harassed.

1 (44m 3s):
I just kind of thought well, that's the way it is.

3 (44m 7s):
The interview went well, which felt great to Tana because she was used to bombing interviews. She was so shy it was raining when she and Don walked out of the building. He offered her a ride. She said no, I'll take the

1 (44m 19s):
train said no. No, I'll give you a ride. I'll give you a ride and he kind of insisted on it. And I remember, you know, I got in his car and I said this is so silly and he even made fun of me about this years later where I said like I really want this job. I would even do it for free. The until I prove myself that I can do it in hindsight. Like I want to like slap fight, you know, 20 dumb 25 year old self fortunately. I didn't have the opportunity to screw myself over that way

3 (44m 44s):
because done brush that idea off as ridiculous in the interviewed on suggested ton of might start editing a section at alternate they recently created about sex. So it didn't seem totally out of nowhere that toward the end of the

1 (44m 58s):
ride. He's sort of like, you know, kind of casually put his hand on my knee and said Thing like so I hear you and your roommates are like pretty wild and crazy sex lives. I think I said something like a huh. Yeah, it's pretty crazy or something like that. I just on some level. I very passively did nothing and did you feel bad neutral just like whatever it felt bad, but also I was ecstatic because I felt like I had a real shot at the job.

3 (45m 29s):
She called her friend to thank her. She said as you warned me he got a Little sexually harass see but I'm so excited. I think I got it. She did and from the beginning Tana understood that her attractiveness to Don meant she'd be seen rather than ignored. Tana was seen by Don all the time. He take pictures of her sometimes when she wasn't looking and send them to her. He was generous with his attention and controlling usually at the same time. There was no way to tease the two apart and she accepted them both. He appreciated her legs. Which he told her he did not seem to love her personality.

1 (46m 7s):
So I remember once we were at lunch she was like Tana. Would you have to say you can't even talk and I was really sick. So I kind of like it coughed a little bit because I had the flu or something and I remember he in front of everyone fake caught you like all you do is every cough that's all you ever do is that the only thing you can ever even say

3 (46m 25s):
at a party Don rub Tana shoulders and asked if she wanted another drink when she said no, he grabbed tonya's wrist. Twisted her arm and pushed her into a table get to be physically separated from her. He apologized later and she forgave him easily. Don was old to her pervy but again sort of pathetic. I felt an appropriate to read him as anything else. I remember there was one

1 (46m 51s):
woman in the office who started freaking out and crying because Don told her that the color of her sure looked nice on her and my reaction was like, alright everyone. Everyone's being hysterical. Are like it's nice colored shirt like chill the fuck out with my inner thought there was another woman who was really funny actually when she found the porn printed out in the printer. She stepped this, you know, we're all like giggling about it because we all knew who it was like it was so obvious and she sent this hilarious email to all of editorial that was something to the effect of whoever decided to print out porn in the office. Please

3 (47m 30s):
abstain from wait who did The porn it was

1 (47m 34s):
Dawn. Obviously

3 (47m 36s):
one of 10 is co-workers another young woman quit because of Don's bullying like

1 (47m 41s):
survival of the fittest. Like I can handle the bullying in the sexual harassment. She couldn't did you feel kind of proud of that? Yes. I did. Like I can take

3 (47m 52s):
it. Tana was the cool girl who could take it she was comfortable in that role it gave her more power professionally to have the attention of the most powerful person in the office. Even if it meant accepting the attention that was not professional like when Don kept telling her he wanted to buy her a black cocktail dress. He thought would look great on her

1 (48m 13s):
body. So I just thought it was really kind of sad or Bittersweet or semi pathetic. He thought I needed for him to buy me this dress when I could have just bought it

3 (48m 25s):
myself and Midway through that indignant that Tana felt guilty Don wanted to be generous to be a wealthy Charming Man. Man, who could give her beautiful things this was not the way she saw him which made her feel bad for him.

1 (48m 40s):
And then I actually did end up buying it and this is where I wonder like was I not clear enough about setting that boundary. So I bought the dress. I told him. Oh, yeah. Guess what? I bought this dress because I have $90 down seemed pleased

3 (48m 56s):
but then she didn't like the dress. She didn't like the way it fit her which she told him and he was like, oh give

1 (49m 2s):
it to me. I'm going to give it to Girlfriend it all look better on her because due to years of yoga. She has curves and muscles that are in separate places than you do. Whoa, but that's crazy. Right? That's pretty crazy. Okay when you say like, this is where I feel like confused about what is it that you feel confused about if I didn't set clear enough boundaries to more clearly communicate that this exchange made me uncomfortable. A wall that's what you're supposed to. Do. You know, you say

3 (49m 37s):
know that first time Don drove her home and put his hand underneath Tana did not say no instead. She entered into an unspoken agreement between cool girl and flirty boss. He'd look after her career and he flirt with her while he was doing it. The rules were cleared at Tana. You don't say no saying no would destroy the agreement from which both parties have something to gain. You don't ask why do you want to buy me this dress? You don't say please don't rub my back or please stop taking pictures of me. You don't reply when he says by email what he wants for his birthday is sex with a mysterious blond woman and then adds or you could just put on a wig When Don asked Anna to his New York apartment for meetings, she followed the agreement.

3 (50m 27s):
She said nothing. There was no office in New York. So it was easy to Pretend This was appropriate and one night. They met they talked about work and then down wanted to keep hanging out.

1 (50m 39s):
It was getting kind of late and we were drinking and he was like, hold on just one second. I'm like, oh my god with voice to going to come out with comes back out runs back out to the table with a paper bag filled with Graphs and he says, you know, these are photos from my past. So he starts like showing me all these old photographs from the 70s and 80s and they're like basically almost exclusively of like very conventionally beautiful blond women. It seems like this is my ex-girlfriend at this point. This is my ex-girlfriend at this point. I was like, alright cool lot of blondes. Like I don't know what why you showing me this stuff and then he like gets the a photo and then he says and this is an artistic photograph of my penis and he hands me.

1 (51m 22s):
This photo and it's like a black and white photograph of an erect penis. He just did it. So casually as kind of look at it and like handed back to him. I'm like, I got to my boss just showed me a picture of his dick. That was like, yeah. Yeah. He did. This did seem like a violation of the agreement. I mean it was an artistic picture was black and white it was from the 70s. I mean, I definitely didn't say hey, you know what? I'd love to see right now picture of you erect penis from the 70s like it was definitely not the most appropriate thing to do to a female subordinate. Right? Right. Yes, right.

1 (52m 3s):
That seems very true. Are you still like doubting if that was appropriate or not? It was obviously an appropriate. I definitely didn't enjoy the experience. I told a million people about our contemporaneously like hey guys. Guess who's Dick? I just saw against my well like right now but also we were in his apartment. It was late at night. We were drinking. It just seems like a 60 something-year-old man who's in charge of you know, 25 different people. So just kind of know that you don't show a young female subordinate a picture of your penis, even if it is from the 70s, even if it is late at night and even if she does Some say hey, this is wrong.

1 (52m 48s):
Like there are certain standards of behavior that seem like they should be obvious to everyone

3 (52m 55s):
but it seemed like they were not obvious to don don seemed to think it was appropriate to show her that picture so Thomas thought maybe there was no unspoken agreement between them maybe the agreement and the boundaries of that agreement or something Tana imagined on her own. In the beginning as a new employee with no experience tan has power was her attractiveness to Dan. She tried to use that to her Advantage. It was the same power than Asia did not want to use when she asked Don for a raise the power of the hypnotizer Tana engaged in Asia did not it cost them both in different

2 (53m 39s):
ways.

3 (53m 43s):
New people came in to alternate and tana trained a lot of them many of them were young women and one of them came to tana and said we've got to do something about Don's behavior.

1 (53m 54s):
And I said, are you kidding like you're not going to change anything? Like I don't think it's a good idea. I can't do

3 (53m 58s):
this Tana felt for this woman, but she did not understand her and why she thought anyone would care about this. She said this isn't news that this happens.

1 (54m 10s):
It was like yeah, dude, would you expect

3 (54m 14s):
yeah, you were your parents in the car that

1 (54m 16s):
day, right?

3 (54m 18s):
The young woman was Kristen the NYU student who Don spotted at the protest Terminator like while Deanna watched now Kristin was full of urgency and she was ready to

2 (54m 31s):
fight.

1 (54m 44s):
act 6

3 (54m 45s):
Kristen Kristen was 13 and she got a note. Well, she never actually saw the note even though it was apparently written to her. It was intercepted by a teacher, but she knew what it said because everyone in school knew it was from the boys lacrosse team dear Kristen. You have nice boobs. You should use them Kristen remembers how absurd it seemed and laughing with her friends at the note and the boys

1 (55m 11s):
use your boobs. We were like joking about it, like

3 (55m 15s):
like better put better put them to use The boys lacrosse team needs them like what do they want to do with them? Like, how can you boys? How could you use my boobs on the like I'm on the lacrosse team. It was just stupid one of the boys who signed the note was Kristen's boyfriend, but the to never talked about it because they never talked because they were in seventh grade and that's what I meant to be boyfriend and girlfriend the guidance counselor came for Kristen in the middle of class. They walked to her office and she asked Kristen what you thought of the note and I was like, I don't know. No, I think they're just like being stupid boys and she was like, you're a victim of sexual harassment and I just remember being like

1 (55m 54s):
feeling really weird that she said that to me because it sounded so serious and I just like

3 (55m 59s):
I just just like, can we just let it go like,

1 (56m 3s):
you know, one of these guys is your boyfriend. What does he think that this is cute and I was like, I don't know he's

3 (56m 9s):
at I don't even know him like he's an idiot like he's not going to be my boyfriend anymore. I like

1 (56m 14s):
and then I felt like she was angry with me because I Wasn't like freaking out about this letter, but like that's how I

3 (56m 21s):
felt you were like not performing victim of sexual harassment. Yes Lee. Yeah. I was just like performing like child in a room like I'm 12 and you're an adult talking about like my body and like boys and this is so uncomfortable. Like I remember I even like zipped my hoodie up real. It's

1 (56m 38s):
real tight all the way to the top because I thought that she would like make a comment about like my boob

3 (56m 43s):
showing like or something. It's not like Austin couldn't imagine some girl being upset by that note she could and she could imagine some girl might enjoy that note but she was the girl she owned the boobs they were talking about that. Everyone was now talking about and then there was like a thing in the auditorium and this like girl who I didn't know at all sat down next to me and was like I heard about the

1 (57m 9s):
note like are you okay and like all that

3 (57m 11s):
kind of shit was just making me so uncomfortable.

1 (57m 14s):
I was just like yeah, I'm fine like I

3 (57m 16s):
didn't care. I remember caring about well the guidance counselor for

1 (57m 20s):
not just letting it be a stupid kid thing and making it into like an attempted rape or something. Is that how it felt it's about it just felt like they wanted me to cry and act like it was the worst thing that ever happened to me and I was so violated

3 (57m 38s):
when Kristen was raped a few years later. It took her a while to use that word. He took advantage of me is what Kristen said it first. And when that didn't feel right she said he's an asshole, but that didn't seem right either. She had no word to summarize the experience something

1 (57m 58s):
that I didn't like that was wrong, but

3 (58m 2s):
It wasn't what I

1 (58m 2s):
imagined rape would be like and it wasn't as scary as I thought that it would be

3 (58m 8s):
she was at her friend's house for a party. It was late people were going to sleep and she climbed up to the top of a bunk bed to get away from an older guy who was creeping her out. Kristen was drunk. She remembers her face felt numb. She remembers hearing someone banging on the door, which you later found out he had locked before he climbed up into the bunk bed and took her clothes off. She said no, but he had sex with her. Anyway sex that didn't feel like the right word either. Kristen noticed her friends doing the same thing describing their experiences with boys in different tones and different arrangements.

3 (58m 48s):
And then there was the friend who wouldn't say anything at all about what happened except she was upset and didn't want to talk about it and eventually she did explain. He said can I just put it in you for a second? Her friend said no, he did. Anyway, that's when Kristen said she felt like she had an understanding to share all those

1 (59m 9s):
We were mad at those boys because of what they did to us.

3 (59m 15s):
We were mad because they raped, you know, I never liked several of my friends were took us a really long time to

1 (59m 22s):
like put the word to it

3 (59m 25s):
when she added them up all their experiences Kristen felt like boys were aiming their behavior. So it would come in just under the line of something that had a name

1 (59m 35s):
like they're playing a game to see what they can get away with

3 (59m 38s):
is that's what I I kind of realized from it

1 (59m 40s):
like the way that a guy is going to screw you over most likely isn't going to be he's gonna rape you in an alley it's going to be something that people might doubt and it's not going to look like the worst examples of things or the most clear cut and it's intentional and that's why it's scary. It's like they tell the actually I think maybe they don't need they don't believe What they did was wrong because it doesn't look like what they consider

3 (1h 0m 12s):
rape same as for you. Mhm. Rape the word was congruent with the way she felt about it that she decided was What mattered and I think maybe maybe after that I was just

1 (1h 0m 28s):
ready. I don't know.

3 (1h 0m 29s):
I I wasn't waiting

1 (1h 0m 31s):
anymore to call something what it was

3 (1h 0m 35s):
four years later Kristen met Donna to protest graduated from college and accepted a job at alternate. She was 21 alternates youngest employee done. To tell the story of how they met how he'd found her on the sidewalk.

1 (1h 0m 50s):
He liked very much that he had discovered me. I definitely got the sense that he liked feeling like he was doing

3 (1h 0m 58s):
me this huge favor and like I was his prodigy or something and then it evolved from. Oh, I found her on the sidewalk like it was this cute

1 (1h 1m 8s):
thing to like don't you

3 (1h 1m 11s):
dare publish anywhere else and the amount of control?

1 (1h 1m 16s):
That I realized he had over me was up was concerning early

3 (1h 1m 21s):
when done invaded her to meet at his apartment. Kristen did not think as Tonya had well, there's no New York office. So that makes a certain amount of sense Kristen thought I know what this is. I know why he wants me here. I know I he's ordering Sushi and offering me weed and repeatedly asking me if I like his music

1 (1h 1m 42s):
and he wanted me to he liked that I was young and he thought I was like cool.

3 (1h 1m 46s):
it's hanging out this young person who likes was having a good time with him and I think a

1 (1h 1m 50s):
lot of the like Shameless way, he would look at her talk about my

3 (1h 1m 54s):
body was a way for him to kind of force me to see him as a sexual being like I'm

1 (1h 2m 2s):
not 60-something your old man with no sexuality and if you think so, I'm going to prove to you that I'm not by forcing you to realize that I do have I do have sexual thoughts and urges and and also there about you

3 (1h 2m 15s):
a And said to me recently relating a different incident, she said forcing someone to be part of your boner against their will it's just a smarter way of forcing someone I thought about Kristin when she said that how alert Kristen was to a violation that was not definitively over the line. Kristen found it alarming how laid-back Don was how he behaved as if their interactions were completely normal like one day she was supposed to meet with him in a coffee shop Don and some other colleagues and Kristen walked in Don was already there. I think I had pretty much just sat down and he was like on his computer, you know, just real casual like, oh I saw someone on the internet.

3 (1h 3m 1s):
She looks just like you

1 (1h 3m 3s):
let me show you and he's

3 (1h 3m 4s):
like kicking. It's Time pulling up this

1 (1h 3m 6s):
picture and I'm like, oh God what that what are the boat

3 (1h 3m 8s):
is? What is he going to show me and he pulls up just a picture

1 (1h 3m 12s):
of a completely naked woman like a porn star something with like fake breasts and blond hair and I was like that. I can't even imagine when the look on my face must have been like my response was she looks nothing like me

3 (1h 3m 25s):
Kristen stood up said I'm gonna go have a cigarette and I was

1 (1h 3m 29s):
like, oh, yeah cool. So this you see every blonde chick and the porn you watch.

3 (1h 3m 35s):
You have me great this Behavior had a name sexual harassment. Kristen did not doubt it. I always knew it was wrong. It wasn't like I ever thought is this normal? Like I knew no this is not normal and it's bad but having a name for this Behavior didn't solve anything for Kristen. It just made her angry because it seemed like there was nothing she could do about it. She had no previous experience no Connections in the industry and she needed the job. Oh, hi Easton. Always

1 (1h 4m 7s):
I don't even know if I should say this. I used to like to talk about fantasies of kidnapping him and like torturing

3 (1h 4m 14s):
him and

1 (1h 4m 16s):
like forcing him to transfer money into my bank account and but you know, I would just always joke about like the things I would do to that man.

3 (1h 4m 25s):
That would just make him feel uncomfortable and terrified. Like that's what I wanted to do more than anything Kristen's Revenge fantasy. Is very similar to the plot of the movie 9 to 5, which Kristen has never seen because it came out in 1980 before she was born. All of which is to say this is an old story

2 (1h 4m 56s):
Kristen's

3 (1h 4m 57s):
anger blood the blood into her thoughts her work. She remembers being at a conference in interviewing an older man guy. In his 70s about drug policy and at the end I said I was going to smoke a cigarette and he said you don't want to get cancer in those boobs. Do you

1 (1h 5m 14s):
and I was just like and like just got up and went outside and smoked a cigarette and like told all the people at the conference. I can you believe that this dinosaur man just said that to me it was the same thing. I felt like with Don like it was this older man who was just kind of like I'm going to force the fact that I have a sexuality on you. Like I'm going to force you to reckon with it by making you the object of my sexual

3 (1h 5m 41s):
desire later that day Kristen was walking with her alternate colleague Ian. Frell not Don Ian Ian was at various points Don's second-in-command and we were walking down the sidewalk and he was on the he was on the left

1 (1h 5m 56s):
of me and traffic was on the other side of him and I told him what happened and he said,

3 (1h 6m 2s):
oh, well, it must you must have taken it as a

1 (1h 6m 5s):
mint kind of those right or something like that and I just had like this image of pushing him into the street. That was like so vivid and almost like freaked me out. I was like I came very close to like maybe killing this person, but that's how full of Rage I was by that point. Like I was just like about to explode

3 (1h 6m 27s):
Ian does remember Kristin telling him about this but does not recall responding in this way. Kristen started talking. She told the female co-worker named Lauren about how Don was treating her Lauren was a bit older seam together, but she didn't know what to do. She did have one idea of someone who could help a woman learn actually just met at a book party a woman in her 30s who had worked with Don in the past. Her name was Deanna. Lauren asked to talk to Deanna Deanna remembers.

1 (1h 7m 1s):
She started telling me about the experiences. This new staffer was having with him this young woman.

3 (1h 7m 8s):
Deanna hadn't been with Don four years at this point. Lauren. Didn't know they'd ever been together. But learn told Deanna part of what's so hard about this is the new staffer is so young and inexperienced Don met her when she was a student on the street at a protest.

1 (1h 7m 23s):
I was like, you gotta be fucking kidding me. I was fucking there. I should have taken her by the wrist pulled her away with me and said do not I will find you another job, you know, and I felt such guilt over that

3 (1h 7m 41s):
Deanna began cycling through the moments all the choices. She had made that she thought were just hers choices. She assumed would only affect her and her relationship with Donn. She thought specifically about a call she got years ago.

1 (1h 7m 56s):
Just two months after she

3 (1h 7m 58s):
Broken up with Don it was a professional contact who said she wanted to ask Diana about something serious. And then the woman on the phone said that her organization had put on an event with alternate and a young staffer had just complained that Don sexually harassed her the woman on the phone said to Deanna you've worked with Dawn. Does that sound like him? Deanna paused to consider it before answering.

1 (1h 8m 25s):
I have a lot of shame it a lot it but my greatest shame was you know, I can't picture him doing something unwanted was what I said and so I kind of defended him and I think kind of and like I didn't say I believed this person but was that was that true for you at the

3 (1h 8m 42s):
time that you couldn't imagine him doing that?

1 (1h 8m 45s):
No. Yeah, but I thought there was a tiny part of me. That wondered if that could be true and I just didn't want to deal with it and nothing was ever done that never went further

3 (1h 9m 2s):
Deanna and Kristen went out for drinks. Deanna listened. Kristen talked Deanna said she wanted to help in whatever way she could Indiana prayed that Kristen would not ask her what happened to you

1 (1h 9m 15s):
everything felt like it would blow up everyone would know that I was complicit. That I helped him. How can people want to be friends with me after that. How can people trust my professional expertise after knowing that about me? How could what would my mom think? They're all going to think I'm a fraud that I I'm not talented that I'm not that these ideas aren't my own or something and I would just have to to shrink away.

3 (1h 9m 47s):
Deanna helped connect Kristen with a lawyer the lawyer told Kristen. It would be very hard to win a lawsuit and keep her job. She also said she's probably need more evidence. That's when Kristen thought to ask Tana. She knew Don had been harassing her to Chris. Doesn't remember Tana saying this isn't news that this happens. She remembers Tom of being kind and saying she didn't want to betray Dawn he'd given her a chance and a career when no one else would have so she said she didn't want to do it. And then what did you do? I just kind of gave up.

3 (1h 10m 31s):
Kristin's apartment flooded and she got a payout from her landlord when the money came in. She quit Alternet without ever using the words. She believed to be true when I when I left I didn't say to him. I'm leaving because you sexually harassed me and I hate you like I was too affected by the idea that he was giving you a chance that he and it's true. He did give us a chance that no one else did so

2 (1h 11m 0s):
I

3 (1h 11m 0s):
mean But I guess I I felt like I had paid my dues and and it wasn't the payoff was no longer

2 (1h 11m 10s):
Fair.

3 (1h 11m 15s):
X7 Vivian four years after Tana told Kristen that their experience was not news to anyone suddenly. It was news reporter named Cora Lewis at BuzzFeed news reported a story about sexual harassment allegations at alternate. She talked to Kristen and tana and Deanna and she talked to other women you haven't heard from here. Don denied most of the allegations in the BuzzFeed story some he said we're mischaracterized for instance. He does not remember twisting Tom as arm but did say he was rubbing her shoulders and stopped when he saw it made her uncomfortable.

3 (1h 11m 55s):
He does not remember showing Tana a photograph of his penis but says he does have such a photograph and some women may have seen it. He said he often took friendly photos in the office and when he commented on Tanya's body, it was out of concern that she was getting too skinny. The photo he showed Kristen. He said was not a naked porn star but a closed movie star when I contacted Don. He said he told Deanna about his relationship with Vivian his partner on their very first date and that his memory of their time at Big Sur is different from hers beyond that. He did not respond to specific questions, but ask that I include an apology from him in which he says along the way I strove but apparently failed.

3 (1h 12m 40s):
Failed to treat everyone with respect and consideration they deserved. I regret causing harm and I'm Reckoning with it. Some of the accusations against me are untrue, but I deeply regret those that are I apologize to anyone I offended and treated badly. Before the BuzzFeed news story came out Vivian says Don told her he needed to talk to her about something to prepare her Vivian told me she knew what it was me to stories coming for Don. She'd pictured how their conversation would go when Dan Soder down it was not what she'd imagined. He told her ten years ago.

3 (1h 13m 20s):
He'd had an affair with Deanna. Oh,

1 (1h 13m 23s):
yeah, you didn't you didn't

3 (1h 13m 26s):
he? And told you about it before he

1 (1h 13m 28s):
hadn't told no, this is all I am assimilating all of this in the past month. Wow. Yeah, I went crazy. I mean it just sort of screamed. You have no idea what you've done immediately. You did. Oh God. Yes.

3 (1h 13m 45s):
She wanted to understand why he did this she tried to remember what was happening in his life around that time and it was a lot moving his elderly parents trying to take responsibility for A sister who is ill and suffering a psychotic break his own health issues. Vivian is a therapist and from Don Vivian solicited details assembled details as a therapist does for

1 (1h 14m 11s):
myself. I mean, this

3 (1h 14m 12s):
was not playing therapist for him.

1 (1h 14m 14s):
This was just like I have got to make sense of this somehow I've got to I'm still working on that. Don't get me wrong. He's like to why

3 (1h 14m 24s):
do you have to make sense of it? It's what I

1 (1h 14m 26s):
do. It's who I am. It feels like the only way to be a person with a history that feels coherent

3 (1h 14m 38s):
a person with a history that feels coherent with him like your history with him.

1 (1h 14m 44s):
Yes. We absolutely it's so hard to

3 (1h 14m 46s):
integrate. Are you going to stay with him?

1 (1h 14m 54s):
99.9% certain we will make it through

3 (1h 14m 57s):
this. Don had just destroyed the story Vivian had about their relationship a coherent history that for Vivian had included a wonderful partner with whom she shared a joyful life shared trips and friends and intellectual interests a partner who took loving care of her last year when Vivian was in chemotherapy for breast cancer to stay with him and to make her history coherent Vivian is trying to figure out what she needs to know and how to resist Asking about the things she does not need to know

1 (1h 15m 32s):
want to know about stupid things. Like

3 (1h 15m 35s):
did they share the music that we

1 (1h 15m 37s):
love? You know things like that things have always felt very special

2 (1h 15m 44s):
and intimate.

1 (1h 15m 47s):
I want to know what was shared that's always felt exclusive.

3 (1h 15m 53s):
We were watching a movie the

1 (1h 15m 54s):
other night and one character was holding another in a certain way and I just broke down. And she said did you hold her that way? He said no when I saw that I just thought that you and me. And I believe him. By the end of 2017

3 (1h 16m 16s):
Don story was added to the Deluge of allegations about sexual harassment and violence that suddenly have a public platform in this stunning period of time that is right now done story came after the one about Harvey Weinstein and Mario Batali and Louis CK and Senator Al Franken Matt Lauer and Charlie Rose and Russell Simmons and Dustin Hoffman and Kevin Spacey editors at the new Republic DC Comics the Paris review. You the head of MPR news the owner of an NFL team and the choreographer of the ballet after Dawn's story Kim Congressman Patrick Meehan, Michael Douglas, Rob Porter and the sentencing of Larry now sir, the board that oversees alternate said they were investigating the allegations in detail that investigation did not include reaching out to any of the women named in this story or in the BuzzFeed

2 (1h 17m 9s):
article.

3 (1h 17m 11s):
I don't know how you can understand what happened without about speaking to the people who are saying something happened to

2 (1h 17m 17s):
me.

3 (1h 17m 26s):
The show first aired two years ago since then done Hazen has retired when I reached out to him. He said the last two years have been the hardest and his life. He still trying to make sense of the experiences shared in the show many of which are so different from the way he experienced them and he says he never intended to cause anyone any harm Vivian did stay with Don who she says has been a steady. Loving partner and they're doing well. She says the story is here. Do not capture the person she knows to her. These are incidents where women misinterpreted Don's Behavior as predatory. Vivian says he acted foolishly but he's not a predator and then outside of his consensual affair with Deanna done never tried to sleep with any employees alternate was acquired by Raw Story in 2018, Deanna, Kristen and Anisha and tana are still writing in various other places.

2 (1h 18m 20s):
The Beloved and I Stumble to the kitchen pour myself a cup of ambition yawn and stretch and try to come to life jump in the shower and the Blood starts out on the street. The traffic starts jumping with folks like we all the John from night.

3 (1h 19m 27s):
Today's show was produced by Susan Burton and Robin semyon the people who put our show together include Zoe Chase Dana. Chievous. Sean Cole Emily Condon Whitney Dangerfield Neil drumming Southland Miki Miki Alvin molasses Robin semyon, Lily Sullivan Christopher sweat Allah Matt, Tierney, Nancy Updike, Julie Whitaker and Diane whoo, our senior producer for this episode was Brian Reed. With the managing editor was Susan Burton editing help today from Julie Snyder production help for this rerun from nor Gil Catherine raimondo and stone Nelson special. Thanks today to Nava at Shalom Rebecca Vitaly to Cola Cora Louis Rebecca. Treister Lauren Kelly Rebecca, Carol, Sarah Jaffe adelstein Heather Geller Lynn paramour, Joshua Holland, Liliana, Segura and Myra Smith and special thanks to Annie Baker and Heidi Shrek who wrote an episode of TV show I love dick that inspired Today's Show Merrill Garbus of Tune-Yards created the spectacular cover of the song nine to five that you are hearing right now.

3 (1h 20m 32s):
You can find it at our website This American Life dot-org This American Life is delivered to public radio stations by PRX the public radio exchange support for This American Life comes from Lagunitas Brewing Company fueling stories and songs with Lagunitas IPA and committed to keeping the pub in public radio find more at Lagunitas.com. And thanks as always to my boss Ira Glass. He swears. He does not have a problem with a woman taking over the show for an hour. This is the thing. He told me over and over this week doesn't bother him at all. He kept

1 (1h 21m 8s):
insisting. I am the most feminist man, you know, and you know

3 (1h 21m 12s):
it I'm kind of choppy wild Ira Glass will be back next week with more stories of This American

2 (1h 21m 18s):
Life. Just use your never get the credit. It's enough to job you crazy.

1 (1h 22m 5s):
Next week on the podcast this American live in these dark combative times. We attempt the most radical counter-programming we could think of delight.

2 (1h 22m 14s):
Guess what? I'm waiting for my bot

1 (1h 22m 19s):
for instance a five-year-old who gets to ride the school bus for the very first time. Oh, man. An hour of delight next week on the

2 (1h 22m 30s):
podcast on your local public radio station.