3 (1s):
Support for This American Life comes from the Capital One Walmart

1 (4s):
Rewards Card earn unlimited 5% back at Walmart online 2% in Walmart stores at restaurants and on travel and 1% everywhere else when you want all that you need the Capital One Walmart Rewards Card what's in your wallet terms and exclusions apply? Support for This American Life comes from kept era kept era is the website millions of people use to find software users can search software features filter options read reviews and compare software side by side visit Kappa Terre.com American for free. Graham grew up in a working-class town north of England and when he was 11 or 12 is family moved into one of the first houses in new development that was being built and was kind of hitting the jackpot for him at that age because all around everywhere were homes under construction, which I remember this from construction sites in our neighborhood when I was a kid was so incredibly fun this became my new playground, this is Graham.

1 (1m 6s):
So I would you know climb on the scaffolding do bit of kind of amateur gymnastics, but It also build stuff and the big thing amongst us kids was lighting fires. And you know, there was tar paper was one thing that burnt very nicely is actually all kinds of trouble to get into bricks and boards to play with and what concrete to write in they've been through the workers left and cigarettes, which they would smoke once it found a porn magazine and when diagram was there alone and he had this great idea he put together a little makeshift seesaw or was he calls it a teeter-totter?

3 (1m 41s):
The

1 (1m 42s):
plank of wood balanced on a brick at the center, but another brick on one end of the plank as idea was to drop something really heavy really really heavy under the other end of the plank from a great height to find out just how far he could send that brick catapulting into space. So to accomplish this he set up his teeter-totter by some scaffolding. So I climbed up on the scaffolding and I carried up this cutout massive piece of In stone. I'm guessing around 25 pounds. So you are how high up? Probably at the sort of second floor window level.

1 (2m 23s):
So what 15 feet 12 feet he carefully chose to line up the stone directly above the near end of the Seesaw below down on the ground and then you drop the stone. It landed perfectly. I really had lined this up pretty well and the brick launched. And the following few moments are probably the most vivid memory. I have of my childhood. I was obviously watching to see what the brick would do because that was the experiment really to sort of Follow That in it. It's Journey, but the brick it didn't move it out. Like he thought he thought it was going to Arc into the air like a rocket instead.

1 (3m 5s):
It just seems to be getting bigger and bigger. I now have an image in my head of this break. Just getting larger and larger as it headed right towards my face. I even remember very vividly that the break had the construction of the break had three circular holes in it and I can still picture them. Now as they headed towards me in a kind of slow motion way. Yes very much. So I feel like that memory is minutes went over the sea. It was just not even a second. So I believe instinctively jerked my head back as this brick came.

1 (3m 48s):
Actually towards my face and I have a very clear memory of the kind of sound and the wind and even I believe the brick as it flew past me flicked my Fringe different to your hair. Yeah, and it's sort of whistled as it went. Even when I throw my dog's bowl now each has a little whistle device in it that memory comes back to me. This moment was standing like nothing like this had ever happened to him and I remember having to sit down for actually quite a few minutes it to recover. I really felt like you know, and I've probably for the first time that you know, I was inches away from Death. I remember walking home and some State of Shock afterwards.

1 (4m 38s):
Did I used to wonder if the break it had actually hit me and killed me, you know, maybe I'd fallen off the scaffolding or something. I used to wonder, you know, whether the crime scene investigators came to look what would they make of the whole setup with the even understand what had happened right? Like you got hit by a brick like where did it come from? Yeah. Yeah, you know this this dead child who laying in a building site, you know, there was the Teeter Totter there, but I even had this sort of vision of what if my body fell forward and you know destroyed the little structure that I'd made down there and how did I get hit under the chin with a break and where's the brake?

1 (5m 23s):
You know what the forensics would have made of the whole setup. It's thing write your own death. That is not bad enough on its own. There's a whole question of Forensics afterwards what people will make of it. It's weird to think that those stare at the scene to your death. Look at the objects scattered around you get it all wrong again you wrong. That's the bigger thing right the bigger question after you're gone isn't just how it happened. But you your motives your state of mind what to make of you your whole life your good qualities your bad ones today in our program. We have three stories of people who embarked on this kind of forensics for beginners trying to understand somebody's death bumbling their way, whatever scraps of evidence they can get their hands on.

1 (6m 12s):
Well text messages handwritten notes stuff that frankly And so puny compared to the task at hand WBZ Chicago to This American Life. I'm Ira Glass stay with us. A quad so we begin today with a woman whose sister has died and she has questions. The woman's name is Nadia Bowers and she wrote this to somebody who she thinks might be of help quick warning for people listening to the podcast of our show. We've done beep some curse words in here. If you prefer a beeped version of today's program. It's at our website. Anyway, here's

3 (6m 50s):
Nadia. Dear dealer. Hey, man, what's up? I'm saying man, because that's my guess as to what you are all the people blowing up. My sister's phone offering and seeking drugs or men Brian Jerry Eric and my personal favorite baby Jesus. I can make a graph charting the meeting of particular men with Misfortune for my sister. It's a safe bet you're just another data point one among many part of a pattern but distinguish because you're the last data point you're the one who killed her. And dealer. It just seemed like the right title for you, since I don't know your name we can be informal here, right? You don't have to call me Miss or mrs.

3 (7m 32s):
Definitely. Don't call me ma'am. My sister called me. Nod my sister Sasha. Why believe you knew? What did you call her? I hope you didn't call our Saj because that's what a lot of people who loved her called her and I find it hard to believe that you loved her. Did you know her well enough to care for her or did you hardly know her when we were little we sometimes called one another after the food we give our cats. She was tender vidole and I was chefs blend. Did you even call her by her name or was it lady? Or maybe you had a nickname for her like purple the color of her car the one she was found in keeping with our informal tone.

3 (8m 14s):
I won't call you. Mr. I'll just call you my man. Because that is what you are. You are mine man. The one I want to talk to the one I'm seeking. The only one who knows him very important things about how my sister died. You are quite possibly the last person who saw her alive and I'm a little jealous. As for me, you don't have to call me by my name. You can just call me the

1 (8m 35s):
sister.

3 (8m 47s):
I think about you all the time almost every day. I feel like I deserve to know you like I deserve to have at least five minutes of your time five minutes alone with you. This is me tying you to a chair so we can think about some things together. Are you still alive? I feel like you are and I'm angry about that. But then if I learned who you were and that you were dead. I might be angry about that too. I think about hurting you and when I imagine the violence I could commit it alarms me. It's important to me that you know some things I want you to see who you messed with know who you destroyed. Sasha was a valedictorian of her high school class. She studied psychology at Yale. She was bold.

3 (9m 28s):
I was her Apprentice. She gave me my taste in music riding around in her Ford Escort. She's slipping a cassette explaining the difference between Funkadelic and Parliament. One of my most prized possessions is a cassette tape where we taped ourselves on mushrooms sitting in my room. I was a senior in high school. She was home from college for Christmas

2 (9m 45s):
vacation.

3 (9m 51s):
That's Sasha asking me what I'm laughing at nothing. I tell her we stared as my grandmother's watercolors on my wall started to

2 (9m 58s):
blur. It's like

3 (10m 9s):
we burn knock Champa incense and cracked ourselves up about things. We called social experiments. These were basically fantasies about ways. We could be completely inappropriate and situations where certain contain Behavior was expected like the public library.

2 (10m 23s):
The library and I pulled a bunch of shelves which is

3 (10m 30s):
that's me screaming. When I listened to the tape, I hear a self-assured Sasha. She's in control. I'm real little sister Overjoyed to have her full attention trying to impress her with my wisdom and also be here court jester. Sasha tells me a story about this horse. She knew that she called a total

2 (10m 53s):
bitch

3 (10m 55s):
not safe to have around people and then this girl from the Special Olympics showed up in the barn and threw her arms around the horse's neck and the horse stayed calm.

2 (11m 5s):
Waiting for her to take a bite out of this chick and it was like she knew she was like sat there. Did she bite people? Yes. Oh, yeah, that time is so cool that she's been right idiot. I bet you did.

3 (11m 35s):
Is there ever a good time to be an asshole? I'm asking her. I've done the math and as of March 11th 2018 as 6:49 p.m. I have lived longer than my sister. I have walked the Earth more seconds than my big sister who was born two and a half years before me. This does not make sense. You have knocked the universe off course. My husband would say take it easy Encyclopedia Brown as he watched me walk around with her phone trying to reconstruct her last days reading texts listening to messages making notes trying to figure out who you are.

3 (12m 25s):
My man. I was hoping to finally understand the part of her life that she refused to share with me at the end. It infuriated me that she kept getting texts after she died like this one from Brian. Hey any of the shirts around my hands shaking I responded you should fuck off. This is Sasha sister and she died go get your drugs somewhere else you piece of shit or this one from Frankie any news got sleepies when there was no response. He wrote must be dead. I wrote back to Frankie. Actually. She is dead fuck off. This is her sister. You'll have to fucking get your drugs somewhere else. So my man, are you one of the guys she talked to and texted with on our last day.

3 (13m 8s):
Are you the ex-boyfriend who kept harassing her the one who introduced her to Oxycontin that guy. Are you the friend who told me how sorry he was at Sasha died and that it was a hot day and maybe her windows were rolled up and she suffocated during a nap in her car. Are you one of those friends I ran into who didn't have the decency to show up for her Memorial one of those people were you feeling guilty about something? Here's something that's been eating at me for a while. I read that you actually don't mind when people die from something you were selling because it tells a hardcore users that the high is really powerful the high of heroin mixed with fentanyl fentanyl, which is up to a hundred times more potent than morphine 100 times more potent than the drug given to my father when he was dying from cancer.

3 (13m 50s):
So a death from this stuff is like a calling card. Is that true that my sister's obituary bringing business for you?

1 (14m 2s):
I

3 (14m 2s):
have a friend who's a Jehovah's Witness and she told me that in the resurrection. I'll be able to hold my sister like I used to and speak to her like nothing happened. I like this idea, but I can't get myself to believe it. Her body was burned cremated at 1800 degrees. I don't like picturing that but I do aside from my own body hers was probably the other female body. I knew the best lean taut muscular. She rode horses. She was Fearless always wanting to ride the ones that were trouble. She could lose her saddle and Gallop at a flat run like a wild woman gripping. The horse's mane with her hand. Her leg muscles were iron cables. She used to put me in the Vise.

3 (14m 43s):
I move inspired by our love of the UWF wrestlers she would wrap a Brawny legs around me and squeeze until I almost couldn't breathe. My mother always called Sasha the daughter with a bleeding heart when point when she was working in New Haven you would walk down the street with her and she knew all the homeless people by name if you were driving with her, she would jerk the car to the side of the road get out leaving the car door swinging open and called to the man or woman to see if they were okay if they needed anything that was her life's work. She was actually a clinical social worker with two masters degrees and social work and public health for the last five or so years of her life. She had trouble keeping jobs. Should trouble committing to anything.

3 (15m 32s):
The daughter with the bleeding heart her autopsy report says that her heart way 360 grams when I had to identify her body the edges of the sheet. She lay on her pink from her water down blood the water down blood of her compassionate bleeding heart. They should have cleaned up better cleaned her up better though. I caught myself thinking how perfect her eyebrows were. How old are you? Are you my sisters age? Younger? Did you know she was 44 maybe that seems old to you, but it's not she looked older since she started using but before before my man, she was gorgeous sexy.

3 (16m 17s):
She probably met you at your place or the Taco Bell parking lot and her filthy car baseball cap picked at skin too much eyeliner. So maybe you could never imagine that but she As ask anyone who knew her ask the multitude of men who knew her as the ones I would like to line up against a wall execution style and actually execute asked her first mindfuck of a boyfriend at age 14 and the obsessive one that followed in high school as the professor's married. Men. Random men apparent Friends the one who first gave her crack than Oxycontin ask her coach who slept with a young women on his team and pulled her into a coke-fueled party scene while she was still a teenager. He denies all This today, I find myself fixated on the men.

3 (17m 1s):
They Circle her memory like these loser deadbeat ghosts or something. How dare they have the nerve to be alive a year after Sasha died after visiting her grave on a summer day. I drove through the center of our hometown by the town green. There was a cluster of boys and girls Not yet High School age. The boys were on their BMXs doing tricks riding down a little Hill. The girls were all clumped together watching these young peacock strut their stuff knowing their job was to sit there and be impressed. They were nearly silent Whispering among themselves why the boys were having all the fun?

3 (17m 44s):
I drove by them and shocked Myself by rolling down the window and yelling girls get a backbone. They are not that cool. I worried what my sister's death was doing to me. What was your day like today? Your day is a dealer or so much heroin and Fentanyl on the streets these days. I'm pretty sure you're crushing it as the kids say on the radio. I heard the chief medical examiner for Connecticut actually get choked up about how they need to build new buildings just to keep up with all the dead bodies from overdoses a grown man who sees dead bodies for a living cried you my man are powerful. Is that how you feel?

3 (18m 28s):
A few days before she died. Sasha sent me a silly text there had been an incident about a week and a half before at my mother's house where she had been hosting a cookout for friends Sasha showed up in bad shape slurring her words fighting off drowsiness. I forbade her to use some combination charcoal gas grill because I thought she was going to blow us all up. There was a fight she felt wrongly accused and was crying a lot. I tried to get her to talk to me about what was really going on and that went nowhere. My mom confronted her with some hard evidence. I text I saw ding onto her phone. Sasha did this thing when she knew she was caught she would stare hard into your eyes while she sized you up. What did you know for sure. What could you convince you of what could she get away with admitting without completely throwing herself under the bus?

3 (19m 14s):
Eventually, she just sort of faded away into the Next Room trying to clear the table, but knocking things over instead. I was still holding a grudge about it, but I was happy to get her innocuous text asking if I remember the drawing in our Middle School French books and went with the word fabula meaning week. It looked like a man with no bones making a face like he had just eaten something distastefully Bland growing up my sister delighted and imitating the man fibula and making me crack up. She did it so often it was such a staple in our repertoire that I thought it was odd that she would even have to ask if I remembered but this was our pattern there would be an incident then after things. Sided she would reach out and we were both be happy to not have to deal with the larger issue.

3 (19m 55s):
But each time. I knew I was being roped into denial. I was less willing this time and I held out on writing her back. I wanted to punish her a little more show her. I wasn't a pushover but this thought came to me strongly. You don't want that to be the last text. She ever sends. You read the subtext. She may need you and you need to let her know that you love her. I never texted Sasha back. I waited too

2 (20m 21s):
long.

3 (20m 34s):
After she died, I looked at the text in her phone from the night of that cookout the night we fought about whether she was on drugs. She wrote a friend. How do I not hate my sister? My family truly hates me. I don't want to talk anymore her friend wrote back. Damn Nadia that fucking narc. Seeing the word hate in association with me knock the wind out of me. I wanted to yell at her know. You've got it all wrong. I'm the one who loves you not those people but by the time I read that she was already dead. July 31st 2015 the day she died. She had just seen her drug counselor after our dad died and her addiction blossomed.

3 (21m 14s):
He became the Father Figure in her life. She was working in his garden toward the end of her life. She created Gardens for people just because she loved it gave her a place to put her anxiety or manic Tendencies. He called to her saying he had to go and was she okay. She waved him on I'm fine. I'm fine. This was maybe 3:30 p.m. I'm glad that she saw her counselor that day. They loved one another very much a 4 o'clock. She has a 47-second outgoing call to Alan a 402. There is an incoming call from Alan for 54 seconds at 4:08. She calls Gary for one minute. Then Gary calls her back at 4:20 and they talked for 42 seconds at 427. She calls Gary again, and they talked for 41 seconds if 439 she has an outgoing call to Tim for one second at 4:40.

3 (22m 0s):
She has a call-out to Jerry for one minute. Are you Al? Gary Tim Jerry, were you the last one to talk to her? Did you see her too? Were you with her? Both our windows were rolled down had someone been in her passenger seat were you with her when she died and you got scared and ran tell me what were her last moments. Like what was she saying before did you watch her die? My mother worries that she wanted to die, but I don't think so. How long have you been cutting heroin with fentanyl? I don't think Sasha saw coming you sucker punch people, you know.

3 (22m 40s):
She had meetings coming up written in heard a book about possible work. She was trying in an e-mail reconnecting with a beloved former colleague two days before she died. She said hi surprise surprise rumors of my death have been greatly exaggerated, LOL. Her autopsy says 6:54 p.m. As a time of death sometime between 440 and 654 Sasha and hail the drugs that killed her. She hated needles. She was found in her car in the parking lot of a seafood restaurant off I-95 the detective on the scene happened to be an old high school friend. He told me that he thought she had probably used felt sleepy I needed to pull over the restaurant is on the water.

3 (23m 22s):
I was happy that maybe she was seeing water in those last moments. There's an off-track betting place next to the restaurant with galloping horses painted on it two stories high. Maybe she saw the horses. I just wonder if you knew what was happening or did you really just think she was going to take a little nap? I don't want her to have known what was happening. I don't want her to have been

2 (23m 43s):
scared

3 (23m 46s):
if I'm going to be honest here. Am I going to be honest here? Maybe I don't want to believe that you deserve my empathy. I don't want to look you in the eye because you may not look much different than my sister. You may be like her someone who can't be around their family that much anymore because pretending is so hard seeing Sasha trying to dry the wine glasses. We used for Thanksgiving while she nodded out pretending that she still had one foot in our world was one of the most heartbreaking things I have seen. You may look like that. You may be sick eating to get high just to maintain some equilibrium. You may have been her friend. I may have even met you you may have called her Saj you may have loved her.

3 (24m 32s):
God help you if you loved her. To be fair my sister dealt to as I was writing this to you. My husband offered me a gentle reminder of this fact, it was mainly so she could use there's longhand addition and subtraction in the back of heard a book with people's initials how much they owed or paid her how much she owed him paid in return. Is chump change really written a few times as me free drugs were her pay. This was not high-rolling dealing this was survival. When my husband reminded me that my sister was dealing to I quickly defended her. Yeah, but she never killed anyone. He said again gently you don't know that.

3 (25m 15s):
I was stunned. It's true. I didn't know that and the fact is she could have killed someone my worst fear when she was alive was that she would be driving around high and kill someone the idea of her killing. Someone kept me up at night. I often thought about having her followed so curious. I was about what our days were like where she would go. I was once driving to visit her and my mother thinking about how I could spy on her when there was a traffic slowed down and I-95 a few exits away from her hometown on the radio. They said there was an accident up ahead. My mind went to my sister that she caused it. I pulled up in the traffic jam right behind a purple car. I gasped it was Sasha here was my chance to play detective.

3 (25m 59s):
She moved to the right lane in the middle one. I was in began to pull forward. I was at risk of being seen so I decided to not try to hide I pulled up next to her ready to make a stupid face and stare at her until she felt my presence to my horror. She looked half asleep. Her head was back her eyes at half-mast. I couldn't believe she was able to drive a car. My heart started racing and I pulled in behind her is That might Shield other cars from her. I followed her all the way home to her house trying to steer her car with my body like a bowling ball headed for the gutter. She was still living in her own place with an ex-boyfriend turned best buddy, not yet evicted and forced to live with my mother during the last year of her life. I pulled into her street and watch her drive into a driveway.

3 (26m 42s):
I wanted to follow her in barge into the apartment that she never let me enter. But I froze. Because I didn't know what I do. Once I was inside deliver some Joan of Arc Oprah Hulk Hogan's Beach like she'd go for that. So I did nothing. I told myself she's going to an outpatient clinic. She has a therapist a drug counselor all these professionals helping her. But unfortunately, she also had you. And here's the thing my man. I need you to I know that I know what I'm doing here because of you I get to say if it weren't for that guy because of you.

3 (27m 23s):
I don't have to blame her because of you. I cannot my head when people tell me there's nothing I could have done. But I don't know if that's true. I did try my family tried interventions honesty confrontation rejection love she once told my parents but out of anyone in the world. She cared most about what I thought of her. I ache at the possibility that if anyone in the world could have saved her it was me. But to save her I would have had to go to her live with her make it my life. I would have had to physically remove her from her life and stand guard at the door holding a shotgun. I would have had to somehow wrestle her denial get her to finally go to her knees and raise the white flag.

3 (28m 6s):
But I got engaged I got pregnant. Today whenever I tell someone about my violent feelings towards you they inevitably say well if it wasn't him it would have been someone else. It wasn't him. It would have been some other guy. But my question is why did it have to be anyone at all? Why should my comfort be that there would have been another one that all we can expect from Life as a game of whack-a-mole but was shitty people. I can't accept that because you know what, man? It was you and yeah I'm raging at you. So I don't have to read it myself or my sister to save myself from falling into a sad Heap on the ground.

3 (28m 49s):
So yeah, I'm using you I don't care. None of this is fair my man, so fuck you fuck you because you're still here and there will never be another her fuck you because I will always think about you you are my dealer now, man. You don't me a life without Sasha because of you. I'm going to have to do this. Alone, and I'll never let you forget that yours forever. The sister

1 (29m 27s):
Nadia Bowers. She's writing a memoir about her sister. Coming up problem with having a Facebook account after you're dead that you have never ever ever thought about that's in a minute from Chicago public radio when our program continues. Support for This American Life comes from the Capital One Walmart rewards card with the Capital One Walmart Rewards Card. You'll earn unlimited 5% back at Walmart online. That's 5% back at Walmart online when you grab new shades for your beach trip new boots for your hiking trip or noise canceling headphones. When you need some vacation me time,

3 (30m 3s):
you'll also earn 2% in Walmart stores at restaurants and on travel and 1% everywhere else

1 (30m 10s):
when you want all that. Need the Capital One Walmart Rewards Card what's in your wallet terms and exclusions. Apply Capital One en a

3 (30m 19s):
Support for This American Life comes

1 (30m 21s):
from cap. Tara kept era is the website millions of people use monthly to find software for their team or business users can search software features filter options read reviews and compare software side by side visit kept ERA.com American for free to find the software tools you need for your business cap Tara.com / American that's Capt errr a.com slash American kept era software selection simplified Is this american guy from Ira Glass? Today's program The Secret of my death stories of people who died and the stuff about them that is hidden and the stuff about them that is uncovered after their deaths by people on a mission to figure them out today show first aired a couple years ago.

1 (31m 8s):
We've arrived at two of our program act to comment omori. Is that is that egg title to obscure? I was just hoping it would be a kind of a play on Memento Mori which is you know, like a moment of awareness of One's Own Death, but even I know maybe that's too obscure. But anyway, a lot of this story happens in the comments section of Facebook, so, you know comment omori. Anyway, Stephanie film

3 (31m 32s):
explains after someone you love dies. Suddenly, even their most annoying traits in retrospect seem endearing Blake burkhart's friend was his guy Dave Mar. They were both comedians in Chicago men in their 20s in the comedy scene Blake was drawn to Dave because he was this extroverted weirdo loud and absurd he was also a problem Drinker and constantly High even had a bit about being so stoned he couldn't order food at the movies and he had this laugh.

1 (32m 1s):
I remember that kind of bugging me like he he would just start talking real fast. Be like whoohoo likey it. Tired of doing it for somebody but come on Blinky boy. Whoo. Whoo. Whoo. Whoo, come on anything grab me like shake my shoulders and stuff if he was excited about just the dumbest thing like a new new jokey rotor

3 (32m 22s):
Dave saw himself as this in your face brutally honest iconoclast, but Blake says thinking about it now, he can't really remember any actual instances of Dave being much of a rebel. He just remembers Dave as being disturbingly

1 (32m 35s):
nice to me. It was almost a little bit annoying how Kind he was because it you know made me look bad in comparison and we were always together. But uh, yeah, he was a he would go up to people that he had only met once or twice and say like hey, how's it going? How are you today? And like you could tell he really meant it

3 (32m 53s):
on stage. You could often hear this earnestness and Dave's comedy this almost childlike excitement about ridiculous

2 (32m 60s):
stuff. I heard a song played on church bells recently you guys and it just feels like you only use your senior like Oh like something that shifts inside you, you know, and I heard this song and I just want to do my best to replicate it to see if it affects you guys. Okay, bing bong bing bong bing bing bing bing bong bong bong bong

3 (33m 33s):
bong. That's a recording of a said Dave did on October 10th 2014. Twelve Days Later Blake got a call that said Dave was in a coma. It was sudden David been a diabetic and somehow his blood sugar had gotten so high that his body shut down. His kidneys were failing Blake visited him in the hospital. It was jarring then after three weeks of doctors trying to jumpstart Dave's Body. They told his family. It was probably best to take him off life support. They invited his friend to the hospital to say goodbye

1 (34m 7s):
when I found out he you know wasn't going to be coming out of the coma and was going to be taken off life support. I just said I can't go there's no way I can I can see him like that knowing that I'll never be able to talk to him again. So instead I went to my house. We're at the time. I was living with for other Comedians and all friends with Dave and I said, I'm going to go home and everyone should just come over tonight after you go see Dave. We just made a whole night out of it and just kind of made a basically a wake for Dave and just kind of waited for the news of him officially passing.

1 (34m 50s):
How many people came so it was at least 50 60 people. Wow, that's a

3 (34m 55s):
lot. Everyone knew Dave was going to be taken off life support that night and finally a Facebook post confirmed it rest in peace Dave Mar. Then his 1700 Facebook friends began to post eulogies of him to his Facebook wall thoughts and prayers. I had a gigantic crush on Dave one admitted. Another said let's all be the most Dave Mar versions of ourselves. Blake's post kept it simple.

1 (35m 23s):
I wrote. I love you

3 (35m 24s):
dude. How do you ever told Dave? I love you to his

1 (35m 28s):
face. I don't know. I don't I don't think so. When you're faced with actually losing them you kind of you've realized it more. Unfortunately, that's how it works. So.

3 (35m 50s):
Two weeks later on Thanksgiving day. There was a post on Dave's Facebook page from Dave.

1 (35m 57s):
Oh man. It was this it was it's so hard to

3 (35m 59s):
explain. This is Dave Mar spoiler alert. You're

1 (36m 6s):
alive. I'm yeah spoiler. I'm here

3 (36m 9s):
his friends all whipped out their phones in the middle of their Thanksgiving dinners and started shouting. Enjoy on his Facebook

1 (36m 15s):
page. People are saying like no, And celebrates Thanksgiving the way Dave celebrates Thanksgiving Dave turned Thanksgiving into

3 (36m 24s):
Easter. It turned out David's parents never did wind up taking him off life support. They transferred him to another hospital instead then a couple days later his dad walked into his room and started talking to him. Like he had countless times since he'd fallen into the coma

1 (36m 41s):
and at some point perhaps I recognized his voice my eyes popped open and I was still in Intubated at this point, so I had a whole mess of tubes like sticking out of my face and attempted to scream. But because I was intubated it came out silently, but I just mouthed the words what?

2 (37m 5s):
Wow,

3 (37m 7s):
Dave had been in the coma for a month. He's a type 1 diabetic which has done an awful job caring for himself. He hadn't paid much attention to what he was eating drank too much and he had no way of monitoring his blood sugar because he sold all his test strips for weed money. So he had no idea his blood sugar was skyrocketing eventually sending him into a coma the last thing he remembered was puking into a bucket and figuring he must have food poisoning and then after a month he woke up in a hospital bed completely bewildered by the entire situation. But the upshot of all that was that he was in this weird situation that some of us fantasize about that Tom Sawyer thing of being at your own funeral we get to hear all the things people say about you good to finally find out how you're seeing.

3 (37m 58s):
What people will remember about you. Dave didn't get a chance to look at Facebook for a while. He was still recovering his hands wouldn't stop shaking so he couldn't even use his phone it took another month or so for him to be discharged from the hospital. And that's when he finally decided to read through all of the eulogies people had left on his page about a hundred of them. It was New Year's day after the ball dropped and everyone went to sleep. He was recuperating at his parents house. So he went down to their basement and set Ilona the little kitchen island scrolling for

1 (38m 30s):
hours, you know, it got to be too and 3:00 and 3:30 a.m. And I'm just there at this Island reading these things for my laptop.

3 (38m 41s):
One of the first things you spotted right in the middle of all the I misuse was a post from his brother trying to quash the whole thing written the day after day of supposedly died.

1 (38m 52s):
I think my family was honestly like pretty upset reading some of these things like two friends of David there seems to be some confusion and unofficial word on David's passing at the time of this posting Dave Mars still with us until you hear official word. The David is passed please out of respect for him in our family. Refrain from posting about David in the past

3 (39m 13s):
tense. I got 70 likes three comments, but the Facebook algorithm had buried it. It was overshadowed by all of the comments coming in facilitating the dead Dave narrative. Some of those got twice as many likes and reading these comments was sort of like you'd imagine people brought up a lot of memories things. He did some of which he didn't even remember funny stories and he got to see what this life. He bungled through actually looked like from the outside.

1 (39m 42s):
There's pretty good ones in here. This one I had forgotten existed. I okay. So this woman writes deep into the late night our of a crazy sexy cool party. I found Dave pounding on a closet door and then she transcribes this conversation where she says, what are you doing Dave? And I say, I gotta go to the bathroom and she says that's a closet and I say no it's not it's the bathroom and there are people In there, there are people in there and they need to get out and then she says I show Dave that it is indeed a closet. And then the last line is me saying just let me knock on the door for a little and then I'll walk away so that people don't know what I did

2 (40m 27s):
and that's great man. That's so funny.

3 (40m 32s):
A bunch of post perplex them just because they were so Random. There was one from an ex-girlfriend who is appreciative of the fact that he broke up with her inside his car because it was cold outside one woman said he was a great Storyteller and also quote unreasonably sweaty

1 (40m 49s):
guy. Yeah absurd right like what like it's so easy not to include that sentence,

3 (40m 56s):
but as Dave kept scrolling past the funny memories, of course things got heavier many of his friends have been The stated and they took to Facebook as a form of therapy pouring their hearts out about their loss dozens painted day of as a devoted friend the kind of guy who was there with hugs and advice and beer whenever you needed him and then he got to this one post from a friend's the just got it him.

1 (41m 19s):
Hey, dude, pretty sure kit took this photo right before I told you I was going to leave her party in order to go to bed early and then you made fun of me for doing that. I guess I never thought about this before, but you were totally my Best friend in college, even though you were a senior when I was a freshman you insisted on treating me and everyone is equals even though we weren't dude, you really made me feel so effing cool my dumb smile in this photo is 100% genuine because I was so happy to be with you all the time. It wasn't just me who felt that way whenever we went to CVS or Walgreens every employee recognized you and said hello. We've even eating at Chipotle for free because you have it going on dude.

1 (42m 0s):
Thanks for telling me not to be so. Hard on myself and then laughing about how funny that sounded coming from you. Thanks for all the rides home. Thanks for being my best friend. It looks like it's finally your turn to turn in early. You earned it. I'll talk to you later

2 (42m 16s):
Duffer. That is so sweet. Yeah. Yeah,

1 (42m 32s):
it's it's just really sweet.

2 (42m 36s):
It's really. I don't know. It's

1 (42m 44s):
like so many of these things. I like didn't remember like I don't remember things that way. I don't remember.

2 (42m 52s):
Employees at

1 (42m 54s):
Walgreens all knowing my name I remember like shoplifting from Walgreens and spending the night in the in jail. Like that's how I remember this stuff.

3 (43m 7s):
This was the main thought Dave had going through his eulogies even though everyone was being so nice. He thought they're all wrong.

1 (43m 16s):
I know that people don't really talk shit about someone when they died. But it just it's just really tough to like Square the image that I have of myself with the way other people talked about me when they thought I was dead.

3 (43m 39s):
That's why reading is on eulogies. It actually made him feel awful. He felt overwhelmed by the complete disconnect between the guy he thought he was and the guy everyone else was talking about he'd thought that he was at core a bad person that he took his depression out on people that he could be insensitive

1 (43m 58s):
self-centered. I put myself in this coma it was my carelessness my recklessness that got me to this place in the first place and like on the one hand while it's moving to hear that everyone at this wake at Blake's house was so miserable. To feel like I had gone. I made these people

3 (44m 27s):
miserable that totally makes sense. You are like you guys you're not like acknowledging how fucked up it was that I did this stupid thing to you.

1 (44m 36s):
Right and that's why it was like it's very different the experience with my family because my family was pretty aware that and and they had been hurt by, you know, in terms of the traditional wreckage that an alcoholic or an addict leaves in their wake, my family suffered a lot of that and so They weren't effusive when I came back. They were very aware of the ways in which I contributed to this situation.

3 (45m 15s):
So now that everyone was saying he was this wonderful a nice guy. It actually made him feel guilty even now years later. It's a burden. Witnessing your own funeral it actually kind of sucked. Maybe it wouldn't if you stayed dead the problem is if you have to keep on living but you know who this didn't suck for Dave's friend Blake. Have you ever found his laugh annoying since then?

1 (45m 42s):
No now it's now it's like music to my to my ears. That sounds

3 (45m 46s):
crazy. But I got to watch his loved one come back to life. That's really the thing with fantasizing about he gets excited. Just thinking about the Dave woke up.

1 (45m 56s):
Yeah, just to relive that moment again, and again, I would be Priceless because that's the happiest. I think I've ever felt. I think it just makes me a little happier to be around and every time it's just like I'm just a little happier around him than I could be around any other friend because I know what it's like to also lose the same person

3 (46m 17s):
Dave and Blake both got second chances to love and to be loved turns out one. Is a lot easier than the other.

1 (46m 32s):
Stephanie who choose to be a producer and a show. She's currently writing a book about complex. PTSD like Burkhart has Comedy album called Atlantis and the living Dave Maher is currently booking tour dates for the Dave Mark coma show his website. This is Dave Martin calm. Actually, you know first Ranger says last story is about a guy who goes to a funeral for somebody he does not know it all and has to piece together all the stuff you would want to know and that kind of situation and the guy who did this wrote us an email at the radio show.

1 (47m 16s):
There was no subject heading in this email. The very first client was a link to an obituary for another guy. Eddie Forlani Eddie died a few weeks before he was young when he died only 35 the email began dear This American Life. I'm attaching a quick document that I created Friday documenting some of the thoughts and emotions. I had following the funeral of a Navy SEAL the whole experience was more of an odyssey than I had bargained for this caught the eye of a producer here on our show Dana Chivas here. She is

3 (47m 44s):
the email was signed by a retired officer in the Navy a guy. I'm gonna call Charlie. It's not his real name. The document he'd attached to the email was an essay. It was four pages long. He'd written a quickly after Eddie for Lonnie's funeral Eddie was a stranger to him. But there was something about the whole experience that seemed to kind of haunt him that led him to write an essay something deeply emotional. I couldn't tell what it was so I gave him a call. So, why did you write

2 (48m 11s):
us? I need you're going to ask questions

3 (48m 17s):
do radio shows a lot.

2 (48m 19s):
I I don't and I think I wrote you guys one time prior because and that's the only reason why I even knew how to contact you.

3 (48m 28s):
Okay, so maybe Charlie Wright's radio shows more than most people. I asked him to tell me the story of Eddie for Lonnie's funeral The Story begins with a random text message from a friend of Charlie's a guy named Mark. He and Charlie went to the Naval Academy together after graduation Charlie. On to become a Naval aviator. He flew Medevac helicopters in Iraq in 2007. His friend Mark joined the Navy Seals the Navy Special Operations forces. What was the text that you got from Mark? So

2 (48m 58s):
actually it started with good morning said I said, good morning. How's uh, how's Liam your son and his next Texas. Hey, I got a job for you. And that's where my response came back does involve explosives. He says I attend the service of a frogman in my absence

3 (49m 19s):
Frogman is a nickname for a Navy SEAL Eddie for Lonnie and Mark have been Navy Seals together. The funeral was going to be in San Diego and Mark who lives in Florida couldn't make it so he has Charlie who lives nearby to go in his place.

2 (49m 32s):
That was the moment where it was like that moment of decision was like well do I really want to go to a funeral of somebody? I don't know. In his absence and yeah, if it was anybody but more like I probably would have would have made an excuse.

3 (49m 44s):
So did you sit there for like a minute or two before you wrote him back thinking of excuses not to go.

2 (49m 52s):
I'd be lying. If I said no, I did think of a few excuses not to go because you know, if you don't know those aren't one of those things that people like attending to begin with and let alone the funeral of somebody that you don't know. Yeah, which technically seems a little rude because just doesn't seem appropriate

3 (50m 11s):
but Charlie wrote mark back said send me the details and I'll do it and then in the swirl of his own life and work and family he kind of forgot about it. Two weeks later he woke up and realized it was the morning of Eddie for Lonnie's funeral he put on a nice pair of jeans nice shoes and a dark button-down shirt. He thought he'd go to the service during his lunch break catch the eulogy and then scoot out of there get back to work. He realized he didn't have any of the details about the service and he also didn't know anything about Eddie for Lonnie. So he did some Googling and found a Facebook Memorial. Market setup and a go fund me page asking for donations to help support Eddie's family.

3 (50m 56s):
It mentioned that he had passed suddenly. In the essay Charlie sent us he writes there are pictures of his three children and a smiling face of Eddie and Seal training submerged in mud and smiling and giving a thumbs up with green fatigues on the date of his passing was listed and I started Googling different military tragedies. Being alumni from a military academy means it rarely. Is there a military accident where someone I know isn't involved or affected found unusual that I could find no reporting on anything,

2 (51m 25s):
you know at the time. I told myself that he was a Navy SEAL that had, you know died in the line of duty. He had you know, if it was a if it was a major fire fighter or a conflict there would be you know, there would be yellow ribbons. There would be Parades will be Flags everywhere. There would be people weeping the streets if it if he had died in

3 (51m 50s):
combat. So you knew it wasn't that you knew it wasn't a battlefield

2 (51m 53s):
death. Well, I mean I didn't you get that little bug in the back of your head because I'm like, okay well How did he die it was a car accident

3 (52m 7s):
the internet didn't shed any light on the mystery surrounding Eddie's death. But anyway, it was the day of the funeral. So Charlie would probably find out what happened there. It's a weird thing being a proxy at a funeral. He reminds me of being a plus one at a wedding only miserable. You don't know the person who died or their family. So it's hard to have any feelings about it. Like the fact that Eddie for Lonnie was gone. It hadn't changed the course of Charlie's life at all. Just course of his lunch break really? Charlie gets to the chapel late because Mark texted at the last minute and asked him to pick up some flowers for the family corsages for Eddie for Lonnie's daughter and Widow.

3 (52m 52s):
As soon as he drives into the parking lot, he notices a woman sitting on the sidewalk dressed in black attending to a little boy who's having a total meltdown over his pants and how he doesn't want to be wearing them Charlie recognizes. The boy from pictures is Eddie Forlani son when Charlie walks into the chapel the service has already started and he's carrying those flowers. So one of the funeral directors intercepts him and ask him if he's the flower delivery guy. Charlie tries to explain awkwardly and in whisper talk because again, the service has already started that know he's there for the service but no, he doesn't actually know the deceased and no he doesn't know the family either. He's just there for guy in Florida like as a stand-in the funeral director lets him by and Charlie finally squeezes into the back row of mourners.

2 (53m 38s):
The pews were all we're all full and the walls, especially the back of the walls were lined with Men and three piece suits that were you know, six-foot-four athletically built wearing sunglasses. I mean, you're clearly Navy Seals

3 (53m 57s):
people were giving eulogies and his essay Charlie rights that have felt odd to hear about the achievements of a stranger stories from his friends the men on the back wall with him. We're still faced betrayed no emotion until Eddie for Lonnie's daughter a seven-year-old name's Alma broke down in

2 (54m 13s):
tears a little girl. was You know sobbing, you know in that sort of deep heartbroken deep are broken sub and her stepmother. you know, it was kind of bent over and escorting her out through the door and she is just sobbing sobbing and again, you can imagine all these six foot plus, you know, 300-pound athletic Navy Seals and it was everybody just looks so helpless like it was like there isn't anything these guys can't take on and win and his little girl sobbing right behind us and Nothing anybody could do.

3 (55m 12s):
There was a part of your essay that that really struck me. I'm just going to read you wrote the military trains you to separate the emotion from the mission. Eddie's oldest girls. Thelma was old enough to understand what was happening, but not military enough to know not to show it. Did you want Zelma to be a little more military in that

2 (55m 34s):
moment? I don't know what to say that because That little girl, you know wailing out there in the hallway. Yeah that that that again set off a Cascade of grief. That everybody there had to kind of stuff away.

3 (56m 13s):
Charlie stuff the grief away with an old military trick he focused on accomplishing the mission to deliver the flowers Mark had sent him with

2 (56m 20s):
his stupid and I feel so embarrassed even admit this but I mean, that's what I clung to his like I need to give her the flowers like I clown a clung to that idea that my mission is to give her the flowers.

3 (56m 31s):
Luckily a voice in Charlie's head. His wife's voice. He says told him that delivering the flowers then was a really bad idea. So he stayed put It made him deeply uncomfortable all these feelings for a stranger. He wasn't being military enough. You lose

2 (56m 48s):
a degree of empathy in the military because empathy is not a not a it's not advantageous skill to have and most especially common arm Fields empathy is not a useful emotion to have and The fact that I'm sniffly and carry up is generally, you know the his week. Like I said you your your empathy your empathy centers. tend to be Atrophied

3 (57m 22s):
well, I mean I think it you could also see it as proof that your empathy centers have an atrophied that they're actually quite present. They just

2 (57m 31s):
come out at the wrong times and with odd things, which is

3 (57m 35s):
I guess although I think some people would argue that a funeral is the exact right time for it to come out

2 (57m 41s):
there present. Yeah, I know there.

3 (57m 44s):
The service finally ended the chaplain asked everyone not to talk to the family just proceed outside to the flag presentation. But Charlie ignored these instructions and walked up to Eddie Furlong. He's Widow eager to give her the flowers to accomplish his mission at last when he told her he was there on behalf of his friend Mark. She brightened and gave him a hug. She told him Mark was the whole reason they'd had a service there in San Diego. He'd arranged everything Charlie got back in his car and called Mark to give him a report. And then Mark said something strange. He told Charlie he was relieved to hear there had been so many people at the service

2 (58m 20s):
it hit me and hit me almost like a touching a light socket. He said I'm glad people showed up. I was worried know it was going to be there and I and and and you get that kind of like sinking feeling that you've missed something important and the next thing he told me was you know, because because of how he killed himself and and

3 (58m 46s):
edea disappeared from home three and a half weeks earlier He'd been missing for about a week before his body was found under a bridge. He had a backpack filled with pictures of his family and his service record in his essay Charlie writes about that moment after the funeral when he was in his car talking to Mark and he finally understood how Eddie had died. It all came together in my mind suddenly no mention of cause of death. No news stories of training accidents. No mention of the end of his life at the eulogy the monster that hides in the dark the one that you don't mention lets you summon his attention. How did that change things for you to understand that Eddie had committed suicide.

2 (59m 32s):
I got lightheaded honestly, I had a physical at a physical reaction. Yeah, I just because there was nothing there was nothing about it. I mean no no articles on it. The chaplains invocation didn't talk with nobody said anything about it both Mark and Eddie's Widow as I found out this morning. I talked to her they were terrified because they expected to show up to an empty Chapel. They expected no one to come.

3 (1h 0m 15s):
In fact, the Navy chaplain had mentioned at the start of the service that Eddie had killed himself, but Charlie arrived late and missed it and Charlie had misunderstood marks worried that no one would show up Mark told me he was worried about that but not because Eddie killed himself. It was more like it all happened so suddenly and he wasn't sure people will be able to come. The morning before interview Charlie called Eddie's Widow to make sure it was okay with her that he talked to me and during the conversation. He learned something about Selma's breakdown in the chapel.

2 (1h 0m 48s):
The reason why she wanted to leave this cuz she was Ashamed she felt that. She felt ashamed that everybody knew her father had killed himself and that you know, they felt that she was a bad person. and I was I was horrified to hear that he of all the things for her to think that she was somehow this prior for father passing away that everybody in that memorial service who's there to support her and she was I don't know. It's just horrible.

2 (1h 1m 28s):
I was horrified to hear that and that you wanted to

1 (1h 1m 31s):
leave.

3 (1h 1m 40s):
Eddie left the military in 2012 the same year is Charlie Charlie says when you go back to civilian life you get a job. You've got your family and friends, but you miss having a greater

2 (1h 1m 50s):
Mission your sense of purpose is gone. It's you have to evolve but what I heard what Eddie did and I understood what he I understood what he was thinking in that moment. I guess I'm trying to I'm trying to explain in a basic layman terms. Without knowing you know myself, but I you know, maybe I can put myself in a few of their shoes, you know with tuck me in.

2 (1h 2m 30s):
About

3 (1h 2m 30s):
what being able to put yourself in their shoes. I mean, can you talk about that? Are you up for it up for talking about that?

2 (1h 2m 43s):
So I've been kind of dreading this

3 (1h 2m 46s):
you want to take a little break.

2 (1h 2m 49s):
I can keep going on. Hey. I'd like to say I'm brave enough to take that subject on but I don't I don't. I don't I don't think I don't think I can I don't think I can do that. That's fine.

3 (1h 3m 4s):
That's fine. Charlie's had his own bouts with suicidal thoughts. They brought his career in the Navy to an end. He told me about it when the microphones were off. He said it was okay to talk about here. I asked him if in retrospect the thing that got him about Eddie's funeral the reason he felt compelled to write the essay was that it could have been his own funeral, but he said no, that's not it. And then he explained why he wrote the essay. He said he knew from his time doing Medevac flights that the mere sound of a helicopter approaching can improve the vital signs of a person on the verge of death. He said I wrote you because I wanted to be the sound of a helicopter to someone

1 (1h 3m 52s):
K Natchez we wanted to share the phone number for the National Suicide Prevention Hotline. That number is 802-777-8295 talked the guy Charlie who wrote that essay asked us to say that he dedicates his essay to a guy who helped him a marine who died in Iraq major Richard Gannon the second.

3 (1h 4m 15s):
Well in my time for my

1 (1h 4m 31s):
program is pretty today by Mickey Meek people put this episode of our show together includes on a baker Ben Calhoun Dennis shivashankar Whitney. Dangerfield Hillary Elkin Stephanie food David cast him down Alvin Mela Stone Nelson, Maddie Raymond Robbins seminar was a ship Lily Sullivan Chris trosset a The mat. Tyranny Julie Whitaker and Diane whoo senior producer for today's show is Brian Reed managing editor for today's show is Susan Burton special. Thanks today to Judy. Melinek Wesley Lowery Melissa Franklin and David Martin production helping this rerun from nor Gil and Catherine. Raimondo our website This American Life dot-org we can subscribe to our free weekly podcast. Listen to the archive of nearly seven hundred episodes for absolutely free This American Life is to give it a public radio stations by PRX the public radio exchange sport for This American Life comes from indeed.

1 (1h 5m 14s):
Lead with its skills test vote for employers who want to see a deeper sense of the person behind the resume or in more and indeed.com higher. Thanks as always to our programs co-founder. Mr. Tory Mountain Tia, you know, it's been over a week since Valentine's Day, but Tory still reminiscing about how much fun he had. I remember like shoplifting from Walgreens and spending the night in jail. I'm Ira Glass back next week with more stories at This American Life. That someone gets my I hope that someone gets my I hope that someone gets my

2 (1h 5m 53s):
machine.

1 (1h 5m 60s):
Next week on the podcast of This American Life a man in China. Not a journalist. Does the guy decided to see for himself? The anti-government protests in Hong Kong makes videos post them online. The Chinese government is not happy next. He had scan Wuhan heart of the Corona virus epidemic. What's that again spread information to the Chinese government doesn't want out there. What happens to somebody? Who does that next week in the podcast or your local public radio station?