0 (0s):
Support for This American. Life comes from Squarespace. Squarespace is the all in one website platform for entrepreneurs to stand out and succeed online. Whether you're just starting out or managing a growing brand, Squarespace makes it easy to create a beautiful website, engage with your audience and sell anything from products to content to time all in one place, all in your terms. Head to Squarespace dot com for a free trial. And when you're ready to launch, go to Squarespace dot com slash American to save 10% off your first purchase of a website or domain. That's Squarespace dot com slash American.

2 (41s):
I am in the office of Dr. LJ Drakovic, who examines dead bodies for the police in Pontiac Michigan, and he's running through this carousel of slides. All of the murder victims. They Were close up of body parts

3 (52s):
To say as you just like flip through these things. This is the carousel slideshow I've ever seen. It's just like every slide is some.

4 (59s):
Is is another story. Yes, every Crime Scene is a story of its own, is a novel and it opens up in every direction.

2 (1m 15s):
To illustrate, he tells me this story. Back when he worked in the Wayne County Coroner's Office in Detroit, there was a young woman, the story by the way, probably is not suitable for younger children. Okay? Anyway, there's this young woman, she apparently killed herself by taking her boyfriend's gun, putting it in her mouth and firing. It was ruled a suicide. That's what the police thought. That's what the other medical examiners thought. But Dr. Dragovich wondered, this woman didn't have a history of depression. There's no note.

4 (1m 45s):
My colleagues tease me as being paranoid and seeing things where they were not.

2 (1m 52s):
So he does the examination, including the inside of the woman's mouth.

4 (1m 56s):
In this particular case, the tongue showed two holes.

2 (2m 3s):
Two holes he says is very strange in this kind of case. 'cause usually he told me this gets a little explicit again. Usually he says, when people shoot themselves in the mouth to kill themselves, they kind of point the gun upward toward the brain. The tongue doesn't get involved at all. Doesn't get injured. The only way this could have happened, he realized is if the tongue was all bunched up, kind of pushing against the tip of the gun, the muzzle of the gun when the gun went off. But why would you do that? Why put your tongue there if you were killing yourself

4 (2m 36s):
In my assessment of this, this was a homicide. Now do I know for sure? No, I did not. But that's the logic. So I told the detectives that that was my finding. They went back to interview the boyfriend and they said, we know that you shot her. They said, no, I didn't. I said, yes, we know. The doctor told us, he said, what doctor? He says, the doctor that did the autopsy.

4 (3m 18s):
He said, what autopsy? I called the coroner's office two weeks ago and they told me they never did autopsies and suicides.

2 (3m 26s):
Of course, you know why call the coroner's office to ask that question if you're not planning on killing anybody? It did not take very long after that. He said, for this guy to confess, as Dr. Drakovich says, every Crime Scene

4 (3m 39s):
Is a novel

2 (3m 42s):
On a day on a radio program, we dive into those crime scenes and the novels that led to them from WBEZ Chicago. It's This American Life, Myra Glass And. you know the thing that makes a Crime Scene such a strange kickoff to any story, any detective's investigation, is that the Crime Scene is filled with details, but it is totally unclear which ones are the important ones. Years back, I was talking to this former forensic criminologist. Rico tore about this and he said, sure, at a Crime Scene, there's all the stuff you would imagine from watching crime shows on tv, the way the blood splattered on the floor broken glass fell and give helpful information.

6 (4m 18s):
Yeah, there's certain, you know, there's certain routine things that you would look for. And let's say you get into a scene where there's still some food on the table. You wanna see if it's still warm. Do you wanna see where the placing of the, of the utensils might be? That might give you a clue whether it's a right-hand or left-handed person that was last there. A smell could be important. You never know

2 (4m 38s):
If you can remember, can you think of a, of a, of a case where a, an utterly ordinary object ended up being the, the piece of evidence that clenched it?

6 (4m 47s):
Well, as a matter of fact, it was a, a burglary with a piece of cheese that had a tooth mark in it and we were able to match the, the bite mark to the individual that did the burglary.

2 (4m 58s):
What?

6 (4m 59s):
Just a piece of cheese in the left, in the refrigerator. The individual decided to help himself with some food and he took a bite out of a piece of cheese

2 (5m 6s):
For what it's worth. Often a bite mark is not good evidence. But in this case,

6 (5m 10s):
He had a unique enough bite mark that we were able to identify it.

2 (5m 14s):
When the police are done with the Crime Scene who actually cleans up the Crime Scene,

6 (5m 19s):
Usually the person who owns the property, we would mark it as a possible biohazard and then the individual would hire whoever he wanted to hire to have it cleaned up.

7 (5m 36s):
Other drivers stare at Neil Smith's truck and sometimes take pictures on the sides and back of it in Big Red Letters is the company name Crime Scene Cleaners specializing in homicides, suicides, and accidental deaths.

2 (5m 53s):
Well, that's Nancy Updike and this is Act One of our program. Act One Grime scene. Back when we first broadcast today's program, this was a few years back, Nancy went to a town near San Francisco to see Neil Smither, who cleans up crime scenes for a living. Quick warning, some of this might not be suitable for younger listeners, the squeamish and wimps. Also, we have un beeped the curse words here on the podcast. If, you prefer a beeped version of our show. It's at our website.

7 (6m 21s):
After spending two days with Neil Smither, I was this close to signing up to open his Los Angeles franchise. I'm not joking. Neil spends all day, every day speeding around in a huge white pickup truck with a cell phone glued to his ear, making sure his company gets to dispose of every drop of blood within driving distance of Orinda, California and his franchises in Utah, Kansas, Texas, Las Vegas, and Alabama. Mostly. He doesn't leave the truck. He's had this one for about a year and it's got 90,000 miles on it. Neil is absolutely blunt about his job. To the point of crassness,

8 (7m 0s):
I did a job one time. An old guy dropped dead decomposed on his kitchen floor. So when we got there, we had a about a 10 by five foot square pool of just gore. No power in the house. So it's dark, it's very quiet. I'm in there with a respirator 'cause it was just humming. It smelled. I'm hearing this noise, you know, and I shouldn't be hearing a noise. There's no power in this house. Nothing. I get a flashlight, I'm hearing this funky noise, man, what the fuck is that? So I get closer to gore with my light and it's just a bowling ball size thing of maggots and they're riffing around in the blood and the gore and it sounds like when you need hamburger,

7 (7m 39s):
The maggots were making a sound that you could hear.

8 (7m 41s):
There's so many of 'em, just so many of 'em riffing around in this pool of gore that yeah, you could hear 'em.

7 (7m 49s):
The only time he speaks gently about what he does is on sales calls.

8 (7m 55s):
Hi there, this is Neil. May I help you? Yes sir. Yes sir. Alrighty, that's all you need to tell me. Lemme kind of walk you through how we work. We'd have a crew to you within the hour. They'd write you up a free estimate. If you liked the estimate, they'd rock and roll on that job right then And there. Our services are

7 (8m 16s):
All in. By the way, have you noticed Neil's southern accent? He made it up. He borrowed it from his Arkansas grandparents so he could play steel magnolia during business negotiations. He grew up in Santa Cruz. He has no problem admitting the accent is cultivated.

8 (8m 31s):
Something about a southern voice that just kind of opens up a trusting vein, you know, which is great. I mean. That's what I want.

7 (8m 44s):
Neil has that tightly wound energy like Jim Carrey. He's five five with short brown hair under a baseball cap and sunglasses. He smokes. Cools, does not stop for lunch and drives way too fast. The directness, the crassness is all deliberate. It's his marketing strategy.

8 (9m 3s):
Go sales. Look at the truck. We're we're pretty upfront. I hope I don't offend too many people. I just try to, I try to be honest with him. you know, I mean we're dealing with death. How do you sugarcoat death? you know, you can't.

7 (9m 18s):
Neil describes for me the outline left on a pleather couch by a body that has decomposed into it over the course of 60 days. And I wanna stop here and acknowledge that this is gross. It is. It's gross, but it's interesting. And to me it's much more interesting than it is gross I mean. Think of it, a melted person four years ago, Neil had never seen a dead body. He was a laid off mortgage broker for God's sake. Then he saw pulp Fiction. Remember that scene where John Travolta blows the guy's head off in the back of the car by mistake and they have to call in Mr.

7 (10m 0s):
Wolf to fix everything

9 (10m 2s):
On a YouTube fellow do was take those cleaning products and clean the inside of the car. You need to go in the back seat, scoop up all those little pieces of brain and skull, get it outta there.

7 (10m 12s):
Neil is possibly the only person in America who saw that scene and thought, wow, I want that job. And it turns out it is a real job if someone dies in your house. It's up to you to get it clean, but doing it yourself, even if you wanted to, raises all sorts of problems. Are you complying with the state and federal laws governing the disposal of bodies and bodily fluids? Do you have the proper permits and liability coverage? No, you don't. So you call Neil. Here's how his job breaks down. Murders are the least of his business. Most of the cleanups are either de comps bodies that have sat for a while and started to decompose.

8 (10m 53s):
I did a decomp on the very end unit upstairs there. It was bad.

7 (10m 57s):
How long had it been going?

8 (10m 59s):
He sat for a good long while. He was all humming. Maggots everywhere took decomp

7 (11m 3s):
Or suicides. Suicides and attempted suicides are a surprisingly big part of his job. The rest of Neil's business consists of meth labs and kitty houses. Kitty houses are those places usually full of old newspapers and other garbage that have dozens of cats everywhere, eating and peeing and crapping. Meth labs are usually hotel accounts. Neil has a few national chains on contract hotel rooms get used all the time to cook methamphetamine. Neil says he does a lot of business with hotels. He claims hyperbolically that there's no hotel in the country that hasn't had a murder or suicide in one of its rooms.

7 (11m 48s):
The second day I spend with Neil, he gets called out to a jail to clean up after a woman who tried to kill herself in the bathroom off the prisoner's waiting room. I'm not allowed to record anything. I have to just watch. I hold open the bathroom door with my foot while Neil sets up his stuff. Next to the sink are several thick, dark red drops of blood And. there are a few streaks of blood on the wall. Inside the sink is more blood. It isn't a lot, maybe a third of a cup overall, but clearly she did some damage. Then while Neil's getting into his protective suit, a woman in the waiting room behind us, a tweaker Neil confided to me later, meaning a meth user reads the back of Neil's shirt out loud.

7 (12m 31s):
Crime Scene cleaners. She says, you cleaned my mother's house. Neil turns around. Yeah, which one was that? Without any emotion. The woman says her mother and cousin were murdered by her mother's boyfriend a while ago. You guys cleaned the house. She repeats. Oh yeah, I remember that one that was on the news. Neil says, the woman nods and doesn't say anything. So Neil goes back to cleaning. He whips through it in about 10 minutes like it's spilt milk. In fact, it's exactly like cleaning up a mess at home except with industrial strength, cleansers and equipment.

7 (13m 14s):
He snaps on some rubber gloves, sprays the whole area with a special enzyme to neutralize the blood and kill any bacteria or viruses, scrubs any tough spots with a little brush and then wipes everything clean with heavy duty paper towels. It isn't hard. Just depressing.

8 (13m 40s):
Bottom line, I'm a businessman. I'm an entrepreneur. I want to make money and build my company.

7 (13m 47s):
Were you like this as a kid?

8 (13m 51s):
Well, I was the kid in school who would buy boxes of blow pops and bring 'em to school and sell 'em at lunch. you know, I was a kid at school who ran a lunch ticket scam. you know,

7 (14m 4s):
What was the lunch ticket scam?

8 (14m 6s):
I had a girlfriend in the office, you know, the head office in high school and she'd kick me down with lunch tickets for a a discounted price and then I'd sell 'em for an increased price, but it was still lower than what the, you know, the Mexican kids or whoever could buy 'em from the school. So I just figure I'd beat the school by 20 cents a ticket. Shit, I bankrolled my whole high school career on blow pops and lunch tickets. It was a beautiful thing. I always had money and I didn't break any laws, didn't sling dope, none of that shit. Bought my own car and I bankrolled it with blow pops and lunch tickets.

7 (14m 45s):
Neil's plan is to retire in seven years at 40 and be rich. But in the meantime, the job is changing. Him seeing so many crime scenes, seeing the way so many people die, he's also seen how they live in houses filled with old newspapers, dirty dishes, and too many cats never cleaning the bathroom.

8 (15m 7s):
I think more than anything now most people are just dirty motherfuckers. We live like animals, man, you have no idea. I'm a clean freak. My place is spotless, you know? So I was, when I got into this, I was shocked by the way people live and it's amazing. I went into a bathroom yesterday at a car wash, right guy in there doing his business and I walk into the thing And, you know, this guy had thrown his garbage on the floor and didn't flush the toilet. Just common, you know? No common courtesy at all, you know? And he was in a tie and a and a, you know, a clean cut, nice looking guy. you know? Didn't your mom teach you anything? you know your 40-year-old dirt bag, you know?

8 (15m 51s):
Are you just a dirt bag? That's dirt bag. Straight up. That is a dirt bag.

7 (15m 57s):
Did you think people were this? I had no idea. This big dirt bags before this job? No, I

8 (16m 2s):
Had no idea. I had no idea. I thought, you know, everyone was normal, you know, believe me, it's the normal is the dirtbagging this fuck.

7 (16m 14s):
But now you see more dirt baggery everywhere.

8 (16m 16s):
Oh, it's 80 20 Dirtbag. You bet. I swear to God. So now I'll go home and take a hot shower, then I'll convert to a bathtub, read my book and not think about dirtbags. Wait for my girl to get home. Wait for death. Death are my girl. I love 'em both.

7 (16m 53s):
Neil's thought a lot about his own death in the last few years. Not surprisingly, he says he wants to die slowly so he can say goodbye to everyone. He doesn't wanna be found by a company like his and cleaned up with his family off somewhere wondering what happened. He doesn't even care if it's a painful death. He says, as long as it's slow, cancer would be fine. He says he'd take cancer. When was the last time you heard someone say that?

2 (17m 29s):
Nancy Apte is producer for our program, we heard about Neil Smither from the book gig, which is a kind of unofficial sequel slash tribute to studs circles classic book about Americans and their jobs working. Neil is still working. He has not retired since this episode was first broadcast years ago. He says Business is booming, Act Two. What police cannot do. So the clue is that a Crime Scene are not always conclusive. Of course, lots of crimes are forever unsolved. People die and it's never explained why stuff disappears and is never found again that we want it to be fiction.

2 (18m 9s):
Writer Amy Bender has this story about a boy who would be handy to have around at lots of crime scenes. I have to say this is one of my favorite pieces of fiction we've ever put on the radio show. Her story was read first by Actor Matt Malloy.

10 (18m 21s):
Once there was an orphan who had a knack for finding lost things. Both his parents had been killed when he was eight years old. They were swimming in the ocean when it turned wild with waves and each had tried to save the other from drowning. The boy woke up from a nap on the sand alone. After the tragedy, the community adopted and raised him, and a few years after the death of his parents, he began to have a sense of objects even when they weren't visible. This ability continued growing in power through his teens and by his twenties, he was able to actually sniff out, lost sunglasses, keys, contact lenses and sweaters.

10 (19m 4s):
The neighbors discovered his talon accidentally. He was over at Jenny Sugar's house one evening picking her up for a date. When Jenny's mother misplaced her hairbrush and was walking around complaining about this, the young man's nose twitched and he turned slightly towards the kitchen and pointed to the drawer where the spoons and knives were kept. His date burst into laughter. Now that would be quite a silly place to put the brush. She said among all that silverware, and she opened the drawer to make her point to wave with a knife or brush her hair with a spoon. But when she did boom, there was the hair brush matted with gray curls sitting on top of the fork pile.

10 (19m 44s):
Jenny's mother kissed the young man on the cheek, but Jenny herself looked at him suspiciously all night long. You planned all that, didn't you? She said over dinner. You were trying to impress my mother. Well, you didn't impress me. She said He tried to explain himself, but she would hear none of it. And when he drove his car up to her house, she fled before he could even finish saying he'd had a nice time, which was a lie. Anyway, he went home to his tiny room and thought about the word lonely and how it sounded and looked so lonely with those two Ls in it, each standing tall by itself as news spread around the neighborhood about the young man's skills, people reacted in two ways.

10 (20m 29s):
There were the deeply appreciative and the skeptics, the appreciative ones called up the young man regularly. He'd stop by on his way to school, find their keys, and they'd give him a homemade muffin. The skeptics called him over too and watched him like a hawk. He'd still find their lost items, but they'd insist it was an elaborate scam and he was doing it all to get attention. Maybe declared one woman waving her index finger in the air. Maybe she said he steals the thing so we think it's lost, moves the item and then comes over to save it. How do we know it was really lost in the first place? What is going on?

10 (21m 10s):
The young man didn't know himself. All he knew was the feeling of a tug light, but insistent like a child at his sleeve and that tug would turn him in the right direction and show him where to look. Each object had its own way of inhabiting space and therefore messaging its location. The young man could sense, could smell an object's presence. He did not need to see it to feel where it put its gravity down as would be expected. Items that turned out to be miles away took much harder concentration than the ones that were two feet to the left.

10 (21m 54s):
When Mrs. Allen's little boy didn't come home one afternoon, that was the most difficult of all. Leonard Allen was eight years old and usually arrived home from school at 3 0 5. He had allergies and needed a pill before he went back out to play that day. By 3 45 alone, Mrs. Allen was a wreck. Her boy rarely got lost. Only once had that happened in the supermarket, but he'd been found quite easily under the produce tables crying. The walk home from school was a straight line and Leonard was not the wandering kind. Mrs. Allen was just a regular neighbor except for one extraordinary fact.

10 (22m 34s):
Through an inheritance. She was the owner of a gargantuan emerald. She called the green star. It sat glass cased in her kitchen where everyone could see it because she insisted that it be seen sometimes as a party trick. She'd even cut steak with its beveled edge. On this day, she took the green star out of its case and stuck her palms on it. Where is my boy? She cried. The green star was cold and flat. She ran weeping to her neighbor who calmly walked her back home together. They gave the house a thorough search, and then the neighbor, a believer recommended calling the young man.

10 (23m 15s):
Although Mrs. Allen was a skeptic, she thought anything was a worthwhile idea. And when the phone answered, she said, in a trembling voice, you must find my boy. The young man had been just about to go play basketball with his friends. He'd located the basketball in the bathtub. You lost him, said the young man. Mrs. Allen began to explain and then her phone clicked. One moment please, she said. And the young man held on when her voice returned, it was shaking with rage. He's been kidnapped. She said they want the green star. The young man realized then that it was Mrs. Allen he was talking to and nodded.

10 (23m 56s):
Oh, he said, I see everyone in town was familiar with Mrs. Allen's Green Star. I'll be right over. He said The woman's voice was to run with tears to respond in his basketball shorts and shirt. The young man jogged over to Mrs. Allen's house. He was amazed at how the green star was all exactly the same shade of green. He had a desire to lick it. By then, Mrs. Allen was in hysterics. They didn't tell me what to do. She sobbed, where do I bring my emerald? How do I get my boy back? The young man tried to feel the scent of the boy.

10 (24m 38s):
He asked for a photograph and stared at it. A brown haired kid at his kindergarten graduation. But the young man had only found objects before and lost objects at that. He'd never found anything or anybody stolen. He wasn't a policeman. Mrs. Allen called the police and one officer showed up at the door. Oh, it's the finding guy. The officer said The young man dipped his head modestly. He turned to his right, to his left north south. He got a glimmer of a feeling towards the north and walked out the back door through the backyard.

10 (25m 19s):
Knight approached and the sky seemed to grow and deepen in the darkness. What's his name again? He called back to Mrs. Allen Leonard. She said he heard the policeman pull out a pad and begin to ask basic questions. He couldn't quite feel him. He felt the air and he felt the tug inside the green star, an object displaced from its original home in Asia. He felt the tug of a tree in the front yard, which had been uprooted from Virginia to be replanted here. And he felt the tug of his own watch, which was from his uncle in an attempt to be fatherly. His uncle had insisted he take it, but they both knew the gesture was false.

10 (26m 4s):
Maybe the boy was too far away by now. He heard the policeman ask, what is he wearing? Mrs. Allen described a blue shirt and the young man focused in on the blue shirt. He turned off his distractions and the blue shirt came calling from the northwest, like a distant radio station. The young man went walking and walking and about 14 houses down, he felt the blue shirt shrieking at him and he walked right into the backyard, right through the back door. And sure enough, there were four people watching tv, including the tear stained boy with a runny nose eating a candy bar.

10 (26m 46s):
The young man scooped up the boy while the others watched. So surprised they did nothing. And one even muttered, sorry man. For 14 houses back, the young man held Leonard in his arms like a bride. Leonard stopped sneezing and looked up at the stars and the young man smelled Leonard's hair rich with a memory of peanut butter. He hoped Leonard would ask him a question, any question, but Leonard was quiet. The young man answered in his head, son, he said to himself, and the word rolled around a marble on a marble floor.

10 (27m 36s):
Son, he wanted to say. When he reached Mrs. Allen's door, which was wide open, he walked in with quiet Leonard and Mrs. Allen promptly burst into tears and the policeman slunk out the door. She thanked the young man a thousand times, even offered him the green star, but he refused it. Leonard turned on the TV and curled up on the sofa. The young man walked over and asked him about the program he was watching, but Leonard stuck his thumb in his mouth and didn't respond.

10 (28m 19s):
Feel better, he said softly tucking the basketball beneath his arm. The young man walked home, shoulders low in his tiny room, he undressed and lay in bed. Had it been a naked child with nothing on, no shoes, no necklace, no HaBO, no watch. He could not have found it. He lay in bed that night with the trees from other places rustling and he could feel their confusion. No snow here, not a lot of rain. Where am I? What is wrong? With this dirt crossing his hands in front of him, he held onto his shoulders, concentrate hard.

10 (29m 7s):
He thought, where are you? Everything felt blank and quiet. He couldn't feel a tug. He squeezed his eyes shut and let the question bubble up lot. Where did you go? Come find me. I'm over here. Come find me. If he listened hard enough, he thought he could hear the

2 (29m 41s):
Waves hitting Amy Bender short story is called Loser. It's from her collection of short fiction called The Girl in the Flammable Skirt. It was read first by Matt Mahi coming up. What does it mean when you get outta prison? Kick your drug habit, return to the scene of your crimes and little kids make fun of you. Kindergarten Khan in a minute. From Chicago Bubble Radio when our program continues

Wondery (30m 23s):
Support for This. American life comes from Wondery podcast, American History Tellers, which takes you to the events times and people that shaped America and Americans. In the latest series, American History Tellers explores the Underground Railroad, a covert network of secret routes and safe houses operated by men and women committed to helping enslaved people escape bondage in the south. Hosted by acclaimed storyteller, Lindsey Graham, not the senator, different guy. Follow American history tellers on the Wondery app or wherever you get your podcasts.

BetterHelp (30m 55s):
Support for This, American life comes from BetterHelp online therapy. Do relationships have to be easy to be right? Of course not the best relationships with friends, family, or partners happen when both people put in the time and commitment to make them great. Therapy can help BetterHelp offers convenient, affordable online therapy. Start the process in minutes and switch therapists anytime. Give your relationship some love with BetterHelp. Visit BetterHelp dot com slash t today to get 10% off your first month. That's BetterHelp HEL p.com/t.

2 (31m 31s):
Hey there, it's Tyra Glass from This American Life and the very first place that you can get the newest episodes of our podcast, it's a full day and a half before they appear anywhere else online is The New York Times audio app. In the app you also find the best of our archive, hundreds of episodes plus This American Life shorts, which are handpicked stories for when you want something you know short that's only at The New York Times audio app. You can download it at ny times.com/audio app and subscribe to start listening. This American Life from Ira Glass each week program. Of course we choose some theme, bring you different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's show crime scenes and the stories they tell.

2 (32m 12s):
So today's episode First Air years ago, and at some point we realized here at our program that we had a question, an actual question about crime scenes, something we wondered about from watching the news.

11 (32m 24s):
Alright, I'm Bennett Tolu, I'm a forensic pathologist and neuropathologist.

2 (32m 30s):
A question was about police shootings and the way the Crime Scene and evidence can be interpreted after the fact so differently by different people. So for example, after Stefan Clark was shot by Sacramento Police back in 2018, the county coroner did an official autopsy for the state. But in addition to that, the family also hired a well-known forensic pathologist. This man you're hearing right now, then an Mahalo to do an autopsy for them. He announced his findings at this press conference and I dunno if you remember that case, but Stefan Clark was 22 years old, unarmed shot by police multiple times. Dr. Al's analysis came out before the county coroners and he was definitive about a number of things.

11 (33m 13s):
There were a total of eight gunshot ones, meaning that he was hit by eight bullets.

2 (33m 23s):
The first shot Amal always said, hit Stefan Clark in the side and then spun him around. So his back was to the officers then six of the eight shots were to his back. That is a different story than the police had told. Police had said he was advancing towards them when they fired.

11 (33m 39s):
So the proposition that has been presented that he was assailing the officers, is inconsistent with the prevailing forensic evidence.

2 (33m 58s):
Weeks later, the county released its report. It was different from Dr. Al's report in some significant ways. First, it said there were seven bullets, not eight. It said only three shots were to the back, not six. And as with the first shot, the county said it was probably to his thigh and the clerk probably was walking towards the officers when it happened. And we wondered here at our show, how could something so basic be in dispute, the number of shots, whether they entered from the back or from the front. Does that indicate that one of the autopsies was deliberately spinning the results or these actual honest scientists said, be disagreeing about the evidence that's in front of them? Well, I asked Dr.

2 (34m 38s):
Judy Melanic, a veteran forensic pathologist who performed autopsies in the Bay Area for 15 years. and she said these kinds of discrepancies happen all the time when there were two autopsies of the same person. She said in these kinds of cases, the official autopsy, the coroner's office usually happens first and then the family gets to do their autopsy after that. That's true, even though the family usually goes public with their results first has happened in this case. So Dr. Melnick says picture, okay, two autopsies by two doctors.

12 (35m 9s):
The first autopsy done by the coroner's office alters the body and changes the evidence. So it makes it a lot more difficult for the second pathologist.

2 (35m 18s):
When the second pathologist gets the body, it's already been washed clean, so it doesn't have any blood stains or trace residue. The first pathologist has already cut open, the body has already removed the bullets.

12 (35m 29s):
So when Dr. Omalu got the body, he didn't have the bullets anymore. They had been taken out by the first autopsy and he didn't have access to the X-rays of the body from the first autopsy,

2 (35m 40s):
Which would've shown him where the bullets had been.

12 (35m 42s):
He also didn't have the organs in their proper orientation in the body. The organs had been taken out by the previous autopsy pathologist and sliced up to identify the wound tracks and then put in a plastic bag inside the body cavity. So the first pathologist has that advantage because they got the body pristine and it wasn't altered

2 (36m 2s):
In this way. Dr. Malnik says there could be lots of disagreement and it could be honest disagreement between pathologists. There are people looking at different sets of data, so they come to different conclusions. So, and with that, we have arrived at Act Three of our program, Act Three, return to the scene of the crime. you know, there's this truism and detective fiction that a criminal always returns to the scene of the crime. It turns out in real life that actually is not very common at all, except among arsonists. Arsonists apparently like to see the fires they've set and then some of them are actually caught when police look at pictures taken of crowds at fires. And then, okay, maybe this is rare and maybe not. Nobody really keeps track of this kind of thing.

2 (36m 43s):
There are the people who circled back to the scene of the crimes to undo, to erase something, or at least to promise that it's never gonna happen again. Katie Davis discovered that one of her own neighbors in Washington dc, an old friend of hers was trying to do just that.

13 (36m 58s):
Bobby, comes up my street one afternoon in March. I haven't seen him in a few months and he's kind of gliding along smoking a Marlboro. That's the way he's carried himself since sixth grade when I first met him, one of the bad boys from over on Calvert Street. Bobby tells me he's going to coach a little league team with some neighborhood kids. Great. I say from up on my porch inside, I'm thinking, who's he kidding? He's rail thin, he's sweating. It looks like he's been using all winter Bobby flicks his burning cigarette into the street and watches me waiting for more reaction. This is the same Bobby I loved and tried to save for a whole year. Bobby who stole $60 from my house to buy heroin and swore to God swore to his own dead daughter that my dog Purdy ate the money.

13 (37m 46s):
And this is his latest plan to get clean coaching. A bunch of 10, 11, and 12 year olds rounded up by the DC Department of Recreation. All I can say is, that's great. A week later, Bobby's back, This time on my machine.

14 (38m 5s):
You have two messages. Message one. Hey, how you doing? Just calling to say hi. When I get off, I'll probably walk Bailey maybe woke up, run up and see if we can say hi to you. Katie. You gotta see this. These starts I got are unbelievable. One of 'em tried to spit on me yesterday at practice. I mean a couple of 'em. I don't think, I don't think even I can handle. It's like they're too much of a disruption. you know,

13 (38m 33s):
My machine cuts him off, but now I know Bobby's clean because if he were still using heroin, nothing could puncture his detached haze. He's sounding awake and rattled Bobby, who spent two and a half years in Lorton prison on assault and possession charges rattled by a bunch of kids at their first baseball practice.

15 (38m 53s):
First day was just crazy.

16 (38m 56s):
We went to Harrison Playground at between 13th and 14th on V Street and that's a rough, rough neighborhood. And as soon as we got on the field, my kids started to act up right away, right away. And I think they were afraid. I was a little afraid,

15 (39m 16s):
Okay? He was like picking who was going to be right field or whatever. But then everybody was just yelling and ch joing on each other.

16 (39m 27s):
I tried to get them to chill, to relax and play ball focused on the game. They started cursing me, a few of them cursing me and cursing each other. One kid spit at me

15 (39m 41s):
And he got mad and said practice was over.

16 (39m 45s):
And I cursed him and I told him I didn't. They didn't fucking impress me before they were born. I was in penitentiary, you know? So if they're trying to act like they're bad, they, they're not impressing me. It I, and right when I did that, I felt in my gut that I had just screwed up. I felt right then that you know what? You just laid all of your cards on the table. You don't have a whole card anymore. Now they know you.

15 (40m 17s):
Then Shannon said, maybe he got pumped in the butt, but I lost some meth that when everybody was laughing,

16 (40m 30s):
One kid says, well while you, while you were in prison, were you getting humped? And then I knew I'd screwed up. I said, no, that didn't happen to me. Now. Then I said, oh, because you were the humper, right?

13 (40m 45s):
Three days later they hold a second practice This time at a field in our neighborhood, Bobby's back for more salvation through little league.

15 (40m 53s):
I far smacked the shit out. You.

18 (40m 56s):
What's your strategy? Or do you, maybe you're

16 (40m 58s):
Formulating it. I'm formulating it. But my strategy short term is to, my strategy is to, to remember I'm the adult. Me. Good stick. Go, go, go, go. Run it out. He might fall, he might break his ankle. All good. Stick, good hustle. Hey, every first baseman on plane is good gym.

13 (41m 21s):
This second practice is going a lot better. The only tantrums being thrown are by the kids. Bobby stands by the backstop in our park pushing away a locust sapling that's grown up through the fence. There are no bases and only a warp piece of rubber for the pitcher's mount. That's how it goes around here. Anyone with any money drives their kids to the wealthier neighborhoods to play. Leaving this misshapen field for Bobby's team.

16 (41m 45s):
Come on man. I'm not gonna tell you where it's going, but I wanted you to bring it home when it comes to you wake up, wake up.

15 (41m 53s):
I thought you

16 (41m 54s):
Talking. That's what I'm saying. See? See the guy in the game, the battle's not gonna tell you where the ball's going, guys, talent level, bad news bears, they're horrible As far as talent. I think they're wonderful kids and I'm not gonna give up on 'em, but God, man, they can't throw a ball. They can't catch a ball. They can't hit a ball. And they've never learned. No one's ever taught 'em. Bring it home. Ah, okay, you got good. Stop. Good throw. That's the way to play, fellas. That's the way to play. Think it's coming your way. Yeah, yeah.

15 (42m 26s):
Ball

16 (42m 27s):
Hands, hands up.

13 (42m 29s):
The third practice starts around five o'clock. On a humid April afternoon. Kids are scattered around the field, squatting down, twirling their gloves. Joey is throwing rocks at his brother. Joey is always throwing rocks. Benjamin thinks he should be pitching. Bobby tells him to stay right where he is and keep catching.

16 (42m 47s):
That's what I'm talking about right there. Come on Benjamin, get that thing. Come on now, get that ball. you know, get in front of that ball. Oh,

15 (42m 54s):
You didn't know.

16 (42m 55s):
Now I do know you need to learn. Get in front of that ball, bring it home.

13 (42m 58s):
After a half hour, things start to spin out of control. Benjamin, the most volatile of the kids throws a rocket at Joey. Bobby tells him to run a lap. You must be tripping, says Benjamin, I might be tripping, but you need to be laughing. Says Bobby,

15 (43m 13s):
He gonna make me run a lap and I ain't even throw nothing. Maybe you need exercise,

16 (43m 19s):
Benjamin. He's my favorite because I just see me more so than any other child on that team. I don't know what his home life is like, but from what I can see, he's emotional. And when he feels cheated or or done wrong, he reacts exactly like I always reacted violently. He verbally with the violence and he just goes off and fuck you and fuck the team and well, that's me. That was me. And in ways it still is. When I get my feelings hurt.

16 (44m 0s):
I don't always say, mom, you really hurt my feelings. I say, fuck you motherfucker. And. you know what I do? What I've done for a lot of years is I would hurt myself because someone hurt me. Well, Benjamin does that at practice.

15 (44m 23s):
Nah man, he always give some my ear shit. Get on everybody. Nerve

13 (44m 28s):
Bobby finally asked Benjamin to go home and come back next practice. Instead, Benjamin stands over my microphone and starts calling the game as he sees it.

15 (44m 37s):
Think he all, he think he right all the time. Who you talking about? The coach. He always, he press, oh, I been in the penitentiary. I know all this stuff. My bump, all that man.

13 (44m 50s):
Bobby pauses as Benjamin mimics him, then throws the ball up and cracks it to the outfield.

16 (44m 55s):
Bring it home, fellas. Bring it home.

13 (44m 58s):
A few minutes later, Benjamin finally does a lap, but he walks it.

16 (45m 2s):
Watch the hop. You still got him. Good throw now. Mon, thank you. Thank you. When

13 (45m 9s):
He was these kids' ages, Bobby ran wild at night, taking money, stealing bikes. Most kids were afraid of him, but he never messed with me and my brothers. I even remember Bobby and his sister eating with us a couple times because his mom never made dinner. When Bobby was 13, his mother caught him stealing change out of her purse and kicked him out of the house. The only place Bobby knew to go was right here to this field where he now coaches baseball.

16 (45m 36s):
You got one more shot at it.

13 (45m 38s):
It used to be an abandoned lot full of old cars and refrigerators here in the left outfield where Joey's pacing and muttering because Bobby told him to quit looking for a fight right here. There used to be a white 69 Ford Falcon. That's where Bobby went. When his mother threw him out,

16 (45m 55s):
I spray painted all the windows black so no one could, could see in. And I would shoplift food from the corner store, the Matty's delicatessen neighborhood deli, like stuff like Vienna sausages and bottle of wine to go to sleep with at night and sardines. And that was dinner.

13 (46m 15s):
Bobby says that alcohol helped him feel less afraid. Late at night in that old Ford, SUNY found pot than PCP. In his twenties he started shooting heroin.

19 (46m 27s):
He, sorry, A little bigheaded little kid, like a whole bunch of little lep running around

13 (46m 33s):
Trash is talked at every practice. And Bobby is teased relentlessly for wearing Payless shoes, which the kids would never be caught dead. Any Brandon. The 8-year-old calls Bobby powdered donut because he's white and he likes to lean into Bobby and whisper punk. Mostly Bobby laughs other times though, especially when the kids start in on each other, it can get to him.

16 (46m 57s):
Fellas, fellas, I can't talk if you're talking

15 (47m 3s):
Course, you need some more gloves,

16 (47m 4s):
Man, I'm about ready to put the gloves in the bag and go home. Gimme this stuff. Let me roll. No, no man, I'm serious. Well shut up everybody. Shut up please. Bobby

13 (47m 15s):
Picks up the bat bag and slams it against the brick wall.

16 (47m 20s):
Chill. Okay, chill. I can't talk if y'all talking. Yes. Okay, look here. I'm sorry about What's up fellas? What's happening

13 (47m 30s):
Somewhere around the third or fourth practice without announcing it in any way, the boys start calling Bobby, coach, coach, can you fix this glove coach? Which bat should I use? What's it like when the kids call you coach?

16 (47m 45s):
You know, I didn't, it didn't really hit me at first. you know, I took them to a picnic a couple of weeks ago and weekends ago that some recovering alcoholic and addict friends of mine threw. And to hear people there, Hey, Bobby, hey Bobby. And then to hear these, this group of kids that I came with, Hey coach, hey coach. It. That's when it sort of hit me that, hey man, you know that that's, this is who you are, you know, and, and, and these people now see me as coach, not just Bobby, the recovering drug, dope fiend, you know, Hey, he's a coach.

16 (48m 29s):
So that, that, that makes me feel good to have him, to have these kids call me coach. So I don't know. Now, now, now I have this like little small part in shaping what their, what their day's gonna be like. you know,

15 (48m 49s):
When he told me that he had come from prison, he got shot in his neck. I thought he was just another one of them. People who like to talk about their life and didn't get over it. But I learned to understand him.

13 (49m 7s):
How do you understand him?

15 (49m 10s):
He don't want no trouble, he just want us to listen to him. But I guess as you roll into people, you start to have more patience. As you roll into people grow, you start to have more patience. And I think that's what's happening.

13 (49m 37s):
The Department of Recreation gives Bobby an ID badge, which he wears around his neck when he comes down to the neighborhood, like a sign. I am no longer a dope fiend. I'm doing something good. Most people might keep it in their pocket. Bobby wears it right on his chest.

16 (49m 52s):
I just walk around with my head high and feeling proud for the most part, very proud of, of what I'm doing.

13 (50m 3s):
The skeptics are everywhere though. Neighbors who gave him advances for paint jobs he never did. People, he stole bank cards from people he actually spit on. What is that like for you to walk around in the neighborhood and you, you might even walk by somebody that you, you owe money to or conned money out of?

16 (50m 24s):
It's, it's hard to explain really. It's, it's a rollercoaster of emotions. you know, there's times and right when I'm feeling like the world is wonderful, when everything is going my way, I'll see someone that I had conned out of a few hundred bucks and the voice in my head will immediately say, see there you're, you're still a scumbag. Remember what? Look, that's who you really are. So

15 (51m 0s):
What do you do when you see that person?

16 (51m 3s):
It depends. It depends on how I feel. And there's times when I might be feeling real insecure and I'll put that macho thing up and I'll put the cocky thing up and hope they say something wrong to me so that I can go south with my, you know. So

15 (51m 23s):
Do you do that?

16 (51m 25s):
No, but I want to, I want to I mean there's a part of me that still wants to be a thug. you know, there's a part of me still very capable of being a thug. you know, I just wouldn't be able to be a, a real good thug with my hands. 'cause I'm older. I have to get a weapon now. you know,

15 (51m 48s):
I ain't wearing no girly drinks, honey.

13 (51m 51s):
It's early May and after 10 practices, the kids are finally stepping into their uniforms at the local recreation center. This is the first new thing they've seen all season. Their bats and gloves are splintered and old, but the uniforms are bright blue and gray. Texas ranger uniforms with red caps. Bobby is tanned and relaxed, dancing around, faking jabs, counting the kids to see if he can feel the team. Never a sure thing. Today there are exactly nine boys the day of their first game against another team. The recreation bus is an hour late to take the team to their game.

13 (52m 32s):
So some of us go on a taxi, six kids and I all squished together. Bobby and the others are hailing a cab. When the bus finally shows up, we all pile out at what is supposedly the best little league field in the city. The grass is shin high, there's a pile of dirt in the outfield. No fans, no parents, just Bobby and the team

15 (52m 52s):
Don't even have a feel I can sly on every time is six, about five or six. Dang. Oh, the other team, four 30,

13 (53m 8s):
The other team never shows. So Bobby's team wins by default. Some other kids are in the same boat, so there's an impromptu scrimmage and official or not. This is the first baseball game that most of these kids have ever played.

15 (53m 21s):
They two damn small man, we would tear them up, mama. Okay, with the shut up.

13 (53m 29s):
The other team is small but very fast. And they have three coaches who tell them when to steal bases. So a line drive becomes a run, then another run and another run. And it's five zero

16 (53m 41s):
He stole home on y'all. Good play, sir. We'll see what we need to work on today. Move up,

15 (53m 48s):
Move

16 (53m 48s):
Up in the box instead of looking good in our uniform. Come on, let's get out. We gotta a force a second. Get the force a second.

13 (53m 56s):
The season. Lurches forward with DC recreation, canceling games for no reason, never rescheduling rain outs. The uniforms are not washed for three weeks and one day no one shows up to let the boys in to suit up for a game. So they have to forfeit by June. Bobby's team has only played one real game, one game in four months. In this inconsistent world, Bobby is someone the kids can count on. He never misses practice coming in his painter's pants most days to hit the ball to them. And while it might seem like Bobby's keeping the kids in line, he'll tell you that's what they're doing for him.

16 (54m 33s):
I don't want to have to avoid my neighborhood. I don't want to have to avoid my community playground because I let these kids down because I'm a drunken dope fiend fucking bum, which is what I become. If I go have a beer right now or some dope right now, tomorrow I'm a bum because all the good feelings are gone. I don't wanna feel the shame, which I felt from relapses in this big time Shame, this shame. I won't be able to look these kids in their eyes and their faces. I'll duck 'em. God, I'm 42 years old and I would have to come in my own neighborhood and duck children because I'm ashamed.

16 (55m 17s):
I don't want that. Don't ask smoke. Don't ask smoke. Don't ask smoke. You the man out there. You're the man.

13 (55m 31s):
By June, Bobby's team gets its first win with some great pitching from Donald and a catch by Ricardo in the third inning that looks more like a football interception.

15 (55m 44s):
Yeah. Oh man,

16 (55m 46s):
Boy, that was a major league catch, man. I don't make catches like that.

13 (55m 55s):
And while they wait for their bus to take them back home, the boys start tussling with each other rolling around on a grassy hill.

16 (56m 2s):
Hey, you're sure they're celebrating their win. They're celebrating their win by wrestling. I'm about to myself,

13 (56m 10s):
This is easily the sweetest moment of the season, not only because of the wind, but because it's amazing to see the boys so happy. And this is what Bobby will remember when Justin and Ricardo get in a real fight an hour later when he has to suspend Benjamin. Not once, but twice when Joey threatens to beat up a kid from another team. Always that delicate balance, fragile like sobriety.

15 (56m 36s):
Time out, time out for me. I gotta have my shoes.

16 (56m 40s):
I always thought I was gonna be a loser forever. And first of all, being clean makes me feel like, okay, I got a chance to be a winner. But the kids especially, it's something about kids, you know, this is something I never thought, man, that I'd be able to do. It's like, man, I was walking after a practice like a week or two ago. I swear to God. I walked across Duke Ellington Bridge to the subway and I started crying. I started crying because I was so fucking happy. you know, so happy that, damn, this is probably gonna work out. I'm probably gonna be able to pull this off

13 (57m 28s):
By the end of the season. The kids have a record of two wins and no losses. Playoffs never get scheduled, so there's no reason to practice anymore. No one knows where Benjamin is these days. And just this week I saw Joey stealing a soda from the corner store and I made him take it back. Bobby still comes around though and hangs out in the park, talks with the boys, and he sometimes shoots one-on-one with them. And he says, stick with me. I'm gonna have tryouts for a 12 and under basketball team, I'm gonna still be coming around here.

15 (58m 1s):
Oh, you gonna get in there?

2 (58m 11s):
Katie Davis grows that smoke in the neighborhood she grew up in in Washington dc. It's been years since we first broadcast this story. Over a decade ago, Bobby did go on to coach a basketball team and they took first place at a local Boys and girls club, but Bobby also relapsed. He started doing heroin again, and then he would get clean and then he would relapse again. Then he moved to a halfway house, a sober house where a few years back he died. He was clean. His counselor said that one of his few possessions when he died was a CD with his story on it.

2 (58m 53s):
My problem is produced today by Alex Bloomberg and myself with Susan Burton Blue. She and Julie Snyder dreaming editors for today's show. Paul Tough. Jack hit, Margie Rocklin, Elise Spiegel, Nancy Updike, and Uri. Sir Val. Production help today from Todd Bachman, Mary Wittenberg and Anna Martin. Mixing help for Matt Tierney, Michael cte, Katherine Raimondo, and s Stone Nelson production help on today's rerun from Alvin Meli and Satya Riddle. Special thanks today to Marian Roach, Cheryl Miller, Bob kgi, Robert Kirschner, Wesley Lowry and John O'Leary. And we gore, the forensic criminologist you heard near at the top of the show. He died years ago. Our website, This American Life dot org, we can listen to our archive of over 800 episodes for absolutely free.

2 (59m 33s):
This American Life is delivered to public radio stations by PRX, the public radio Exchange. Thanks is always your program's Co-founder Mr. Troy Malatia. you know, he was showing me around his gardening shed. He showed me his shears, his hand pruner, his shovels. And I don't know this thing filled with soil.

8 (59m 49s):
That is a dirt bag. Straight up.

2 (59m 52s):
I'm our class back next week with more stories of This, American, Life.

Insperity (1h 0m 2s):
Hey friends, are you struggling to attract and retain top talent? If you're worried about recruiting and retention, consider Insperity a leading HR provider. They'll help you improve hiring and compensation practices so you can spend more time growing your business and less time on hr. Visit insperity.com and download their free ebook on how to build your dream team. Don't let a lack of talent hinder your success. See how Insperity provides HR that makes a difference. At insperity.com.