0 (0s):
Support for this American life comes from Polestar. Polestar is an electric vehicle company driven by sustainable design. Every inch of their vehicles are built to maximize form, function, and our future designed to accelerate from zero to 60 in less than 4.2 seconds, with a fully electric all-wheel drive system designed with a sleek exterior using frameless mirrors and a panoramic glass roof. And designed with a carefully crafted cabin utilizing completely sustainable materials. This is an electric vehicle, unlike any other pure performance, pure design. Polestar, design yours and book a test drive today@polestar.com.

1 (38s):
From W B E Z Chicago, it's this American Life hourglasses off this week. I'm Sean Cole. So there's this guy who's been on our show a few times now. Kirk Johnson. He's this extraordinary person. In his early twenties. He went to Iraq and ran rebuilding projects in Fallujah for U S A I D. After the invasion, he saw that Iraqis who worked for the US military were being threatened and killed because of it, and weren't getting asylum in the us and he was outraged. So he single-handedly launched a campaign, which changed US law on this. And for years after he championed these cases, saving thousands of people's lives, it was beyond difficult, an extraordinary stressful job. And so to decompress, Kirk took up fly fishing, which is where today's story actually starts.

1 (1m 23s):
It has nothing to do with a Iraq or refugees. It begins on a river in New Mexico. Fly fishing, just in case you don't know, you're using this special lure that looks like an insect. That's the fly floats on the water. Kirk makes his own flies out of things like rabbit fur. So taking parts of one kind of animal, using it to imitate another kind in order to catch a third kind. So Kirk's on the river with this guide, a guy named Spencer Seim. This is back in 2011. And at one point, Spencer reaches down to fetch something out of his tackle box. Here's Kirk

2 (1m 57s):
And I caught this really colorful flash, really beautiful looking fly, and asked him what it was. And he, he pulls this thing out and it's, it's a, it's a salmon fly

1 (2m 10s):
That is, it's used to catch salmon. Kirk had only ever seen trout flies, which are kind of brown or gray. But this thing was intricately tied together with bird feathers and silvery thread, maybe an inch and a half long, kind of a moth sized peacock, like an impressionist version of an insect or a dream about an insect.

2 (2m 30s):
And it's got these emerald and canary yellow and ruby colored strips from feathers of, of these exotic birds, maybe at 10 or 12 species in total. And they're arranged in this really ornate pattern where the hook cls and the Barb Mules will connect to. This gets really nerdy. Nerdy, yes, but I'd never seen anything like it. It's a beautiful piece of art. Hmm. And he then said to me, he, he goes, well, if you think that's crazy, you should hear about this kid who just broke into the British Museum of Natural History to steal hundreds of these exotic birds for their feathers, which he sold to Victorian salmon fly tires cuz he wanted to buy a new golden flute,

1 (3m 19s):
An actual flute, a musical instrument made of gold.

2 (3m 23s):
And as soon as he said that, I mean, I, I, I'm not, I'm not like overdramatizing the moment like I was in the middle of a cast when he was telling me this. And I just kind of froze. I was like, this is the craziest sentence I've, I've heard.

1 (3m 37s):
Kirk started playing Spencer with questions on the spot. He wanted to know everything. So they went back to Spencer's place that night and looked up the kid's profile on Facebook. His name Edwin Wrist, r i s t.

2 (3m 50s):
And even that didn't seem like a real name to me. It seemed like some 19th century, you know, he was one of these Victorian boxers.

1 (3m 59s):
Edwin had broken into the museum two years earlier in 2009. This was a branch of Britain's Natural History Museum in a little town called Train. So Kirk starts Googling around to read everything he can find out about the case. But there wasn't much, just a few articles in the British press that covered the basics, which were, Edwin Wrist was from New York, originally was in London studying music. He was exceptionally talented on the flute. He was only 20 when he stole the birds. 299 of them. And not just any dead birds. They were from one of the most important collections in scientific history. And also their feathers would fetch about a million dollars if he took them apart and sold them to salmon fly tires, which he did, some of them.

1 (4m 40s):
And he was caught. The police arrested him, and yet somehow he was now walking around free auditioning for orchestras in Europe, and a huge number of the birds were still unaccounted for. Kirk wanted to understand how this happened, that a 20 year old Flo desk with no particular experience in museum, larceny made off with some of the most precious specimens in the world. And he wondered where the missing birds were. Kirk's guide Spencer told him, if you really wanna find those specimens, you should get yourself to the 21st annual international fly tying symposium who was in Somerset, New Jersey at the DoubleTree Hotel in conference center. But a hundred people were there.

1 (5m 21s):
If you've been to any trade show, you can picture it. Sort of a maze of booths selling all kinds of fly tying supplies, hooks, thread feathers, and you can buy whole birds there too.

2 (5m 30s):
I went, I went to into one guy's booth, and he had like a pretty large box just full of parakeet heads. And then all of their beaks were kind of like open, you know, like they were chirping at the moment of, oh my God, I won't go too gory there. But

1 (5m 47s):
Were you about to say at the moment of their death?

2 (5m 49s):
Yeah, at the, yes, I was, I was gonna, I was actually gonna say at the moment of their decapitation, but, but there are, you know, bits of birds everywhere.

1 (5m 59s):
The guy with the parakeet heads was busily tying a fly and a hook clamped in a little vice and attached the feathers with thread wrapping it around the shaft. All of these spectators were gathered around him, like he was a sidewalk magician doing a trick. Kirk Post as a customer at first, but the guy could tell he wasn't serious about buying anything. So Kirk finally came clean and said to him that he was thinking of writing something about that museum heist.

2 (6m 23s):
And he looks up from his fly and he said, I don't think you wanna write that story. And I, I said, no, like, why? And he goes, because we're a small, tight-knit community and you do not want to piss us off. And I'm, I was just like, momentarily stunned, but in, in my mind, I was like, holy cow, this is awesome. This is so like, I, because

1 (6m 49s):
What would happen if you pissed them off?

2 (6m 52s):
I don't normally like pull this card out, but I feel like my time in Fallujah has calibrated my threat perception a little bit differently. Imagine. And so a dude with a bunch of feathers pinched between his fingers does not constitute a threat to me.

1 (7m 10s):
That guy's threat had the exact opposite effect on Kirk than he intended. And something kicked in for Kirk at this point, like it sometimes does when he gets an idea in his head.

2 (7m 20s):
To me, it was just a very clear, you know, flair fired. Like if he was trying to turn me away from this story, it was just, it was like he had just filled my tank up. It was like, it, it was like, Hey, pay more attention to this. This is crazy.

1 (7m 35s):
It is crazy. The stuff Kirk found out, you can't turn away once you start hearing all the details, not just about the heist and wrist, but where the birds came from and the whole surreal subculture of salmon fly, tying what Kirk calls the feather underground, sometimes characterized by shady dealings and obsession. Kirk interviewed more than 50 fly tires and discovered things that the people investigating the case didn't find out. And that is our show today. The story we first ran back in 2018 about what may be the greatest feather caper in history, expect high drama and ornithology and stay with us.

1 (8m 27s):
Act one the specimens. A quick warning that this episode contains a few swear words that we've un beeped for the podcast version. You can find a version with beeps at our website, this american life.org. The birds Edwin stole, I said they were valuable. Some of them were collected in the mid 18 hundreds by one of the greatest scientific explorers of his time. A man named Alfred Russell Wallace. It was like another Darwin and a peer of Darwin's. Alfred Wallace spent nearly a decade thrashing through the Malay Archipelago, capturing and preparing animal specimens and shipping them back to England. He lived in tiny huts, his flesh regularly invaded by bugs. And about four years in, he contracted malaria and figured he would just hunker down in his shack to sweat it out.

2 (9m 10s):
And while he's hit in the middle of this fever, he has a eureka moment and figures out evolution through natural selection completely on his own. He's like, I've got it. Like I figured it out. And this

1 (9m 24s):
Is before Darwin came up

2 (9m 26s):
With it. Well, but this is the kicker. He sits down and he writes, this paper meant for publication. And he puts it in an envelope and he mails it to Charles Darwin, who, who had never published anything on this yet.

1 (9m 39s):
Darwin had figured it out too at that point. But he had been too scared to put it out there. These specimens were as important as Darwin's Finch, which by the way, are also at the Tri Museum. They're early evidence of evolutionary theory and specimens like these can inform scientists about everything from climate change to the way we perceive color. Scientists are still using them. Alfred Wallace himself once wrote that each species, each bird is an individual letter building the words and sentences that describe the deep history of our planet. If we allow these letters to disappear, that history disappears with them. He also wrote that it's probably best if people from the west never see birds like these in their original habitat and all their beauty and glory, because they just plunder them and ruin everything.

1 (10m 25s):
He had no idea how right he would turn out to be.

2 (10m 28s):
Not long after there was an industrialized slaughter all over the world, and it was in the, in the name of women's fashion.

1 (10m 36s):
This was back when women wore a lot of hats. And anyone who was anyone wore hats with a lot of feathers on them from parrots, egrets, ospreys. Designers in the US and Europe couldn't get enough of this stuff. Whole species were decimated by the fashion industry. You'd see hats decorated with entire birds

2 (10m 52s):
In the 19th century. This was like the Gucci bag. If you could only afford a robin, that was one thing. But if you could afford a bird of paradise, and we're talking about the whole bird being mounted outstretched wings, and, and it might, and sometimes these hats had several different birds mounted on them. Holy

1 (11m 9s):
Crow.

2 (11m 10s):
And it's, sorry, and it's a, I mean, it's, it is punny, but it's like, it was how they demonstrated their own perch in society.

1 (11m 19s):
Some women had so many birds on their hats that they had to squat just in order to fit into their carriages. So Gotti and inconvenient. Meanwhile, the gentlemen of the era were also sort of using feathers as accessories. Salmon flies were like hats for guys. This was also around the time that all these exclusive fishing clubs were popping up on the coast of England and Scotland. And each club had its own special patented salmon fly. And the flies themselves had all these names.

2 (11m 44s):
They're absurd. They're like the exhort, the jock, Scott, the Durham's ranger. Can I, I just wanted to please, can I just Yeah, yeah. Just to give people a sense of, okay, so this is the recipe for the first fly, that salmon fly that Edwin ever tied. It's called the Durham Ranger. This is a recipe from the 1840s, and

1 (12m 9s):
They call it a recipe.

2 (12m 10s):
Yes. The tail calls for feathers from the Indian crow, which is the red rough fruit crow that's all over South America. The butt requires two turns of black ostrich hurl. The throat has light blue hackle usually from the tinga, which is from Central America. The wings have a pair of long jungle cock feathers with double tits on both sides.

1 (12m 38s):
It goes on like that. The cheeks are from a bird called a chatterer. The horns are blue macaw, which is a parrot. Of course, back then when you wanted these feathers, you went down to the local plume merchant, or in Paris, a plum masier. And you paid real money around the year 1900 certain snowy egret feathers were more expensive than gold

2 (12m 57s):
For me. All I kept fixating on was that this is, this is all bullshit, right? That it's that there's, there's no reason why a salmon should care about any of this. They don't. I mean, you, you could tie a chocolate wrapper to a hook and catch salmon. Oh, so all of these little subtleties of, you know, which subspecies did you use for the cheek of the feather? They don't even see any of that.

1 (13m 31s):
But that didn't matter to Victorian salmon fly tires back then. And these days, the community tying this kind of fly still tries to do it according to the same classical recipes in these 100 year old manuals, except now they don't even fish with them. They're just for show. They use feathers from the same species arranged the same exact way. So the fixation is on historical authenticity, like a fly tying version of civil war reenacting. But because we've murdered so many birds for so many reasons over the years, a lot of the most coveted species are now endangered or protected.

2 (14m 3s):
There's a species of tinga that is just completely illegal to, to buy in salads. The katanga macata. And they, they completely jones over this stuff. I have been struggling to find another hobby whose adherence are so quickly driven to break international laws, to do the art. I mean, you don't get into the dark side of knitting.

1 (14m 30s):
Of course not every salmon fly tire is breaking the law, but some of them openly flout the rules or just ignore them. Violators can be fined thousands of dollars. There was a post on the main web forum for this hobby, classic fly tying.com, that sums up this slavish addiction to certain feathers. One guy said, there's something to a fly tied with the old materials. And someone else responded, I've met this something, I'm haunted by it constantly. Now it's like a drug. Nothing else matters. Nothing else compares when it touches my fingers. I feel the history. I'm taken back to a time when fish were as big as logs, fresh from the sea, reds, yellows, and shades of blues.

1 (15m 12s):
Their texture and color have that power to push you to do your best. There is nothing else that compares to that power act. Two, the flattest Kirk wanted to talk to the bird thief, Edwin. Rest. He emailed him every now and then. Over the course of three years asking for an interview, Edwin always said no, that it was still too raw. And then finally he agreed, gave Kirk like a week's notice. Kirk and his wife Marie Joza, flew to Dusseldorf where Edwin was living, playing in an ensemble, which is the music you're hearing right now.

1 (16m 2s):
But Maurizio was worried. They didn't know this guy. He had broken into a museum after all, who knew what he was capable of, if he was dangerous, and they were meeting 'em at their hotel room. So they hired a German bodyguard who sat out in the hallway during the eight hour interview. They didn't have bothered Edwin. Wal Tall was not imposing even in his black P code. He was friendly. Kirk liked him though. They're very different. Kirk's, ah gosh, farmboy Midwestern ness. And Edwin's living in a rarefied world of flutes and feathers in Europe. And we asked Edwin if we could air parts of their interview on the show, and he said, no. So you won't hear his voice. But a lot of what we know about how he came to be in the museum that night comes straight from him.

1 (16m 46s):
He grew up in a quiet town in New York state, south of Albany. And he was cute. Looked sort of like Harry Potter with thick wire rim glasses, bit of an indoorsy kid homeschooled along with his younger brother. And even back then, he was shaping up to be a great musician. Edwin's parents were both journalists. And when Edwin was about 10, his dad was researching a story for Discover Magazine about the physics of fly casting. So Edwin happened to watch an instructional video on how to tie flies using this specific kind of feather called a hackle

6 (17m 16s):
Profile. But let's tie the hackle around the base of the wing so that it floats lower in the surface and perhaps looks like a mayfly at rest.

2 (17m 23s):
And the feather is transformed. It's suddenly the hook has like a thousand little legs sticking out in every different direction. Oh, it looks

1 (17m 33s):
Like a, like a centipede.

2 (17m 34s):
Yes. And for whatever reason, 10 year old Edwin's brain was just frozen by this. Seeing something so ordinary transform into something extraordinary like that was amazing to him.

1 (17m 53s):
Edwin told Kirk that he and his brother watched that part of the video maybe eight times. And soon he was rummaging through the garage in the basement, looking for a hook and thread, anything he could find to try it himself. He plucked the feathers from his mom's down pillow. His dad seeing all of this, finally brought Edwin to a tackle shop, got him a vice and some hooks and other materials so he could start tying flies for real trout flies. To begin with, the ugly ones, Edwin's brother got into a two. They took classes, spent hours hunkered over their creations and this kind of fussy trance. Before too long there were winning fly tying competitions and going to conventions. And it was at one of those conventions where Edwin laid eyes on his first salmon fly.

1 (18m 35s):
It was at the booth of a prominent fly tire named Edward Muro or Muzzy for short. And once again, little Edwin's mind just froze. It was the same reaction Kirk had that day on the water, total bedazzle. And,

2 (18m 47s):
And he's kind of owing and eyeing, and he starts talking to Muzzy. And then before you know it, he's arranging for private lessons with Muzzy to learn how to do this, this new type of fly time new to Edwin. And so I think he was 14 when he went up to Maine one summer and, and got lessons, I think it was eight or 12 hour days where Muzzy proceeded to walk 'em through. Not just the the techniques, but the history of this art form.

1 (19m 18s):
During that first tutorial with Muzzy though, where Edwin tied the Durham Ranger, they used substitute feathers or subs, meaning no red roughed fruit crow, no black ostrich hurl. Instead they used like dyed chicken feathers or whatever. And Muzzy who'd been tying flies longer than Edwin had been alive, could tell right away that Edwin was a natural, a prodigy.

2 (19m 38s):
And so at the end of that session, that first session when Muzzy saying goodbye, he gives Edwin an envelope and kind of in hush tones said, this is what it's all about.

1 (19m 52s):
Edwin opens the envelope and inside is 150 or $200 worth of exotic bird feathers

2 (19m 58s):
From the red fruit crow and from Kaa, I think now Muzzy stuff was legal, and it was a gesture to this young acolyte, almost like a like work your way up to these things. You know, like when you get good enough tr try using one of these red Raf fr crow feathers.

1 (20m 18s):
And that's when Edwin caught the bug. All he wanted to use in his flies were exotic bird feathers. From then on, he started doing chores for his neighbors, gathering firewood just for little extra feather money. He soon grew into a masterly tire, which by the way means an expert mimicker able to consistently and perfectly hue to the same classic recipes again and again. But there was always this one limitation as to what he could accomplish

2 (20m 43s):
As good as Edwin got. And I mean, he was heralded as the the future of fly time by Fly Tire Magazine, which I subscribe to, of course you do. You know, he was completely embraced by this community, by his 16th birthday, I think. I mean, he was a legend already, but as good as he was, he was a 16 year old who wasn't really flush with cash. And so whenever there was these occasional eBay auctions of a, of the species that he wanted, he always got outbid by these wealthier older fly tires who had disposable income. And so his devotion to this art form was kind of always defined by a longing for what he didn't have.

2 (21m 32s):
These other guys would say, yeah, well it's a good fly, but huh, you know, talk to me when you get some real tinga.

1 (21m 38s):
That's not gonna feel that

2 (21m 39s):
Good. No,

1 (21m 40s):
Especially to a kid. Edwin has this specific way of talking, perhaps cultivated from living in Europe for many years. And on the topic of using substitute feathers, instead of the real thing he told Kirk, the knowledge of its falsity eats at you. So in a way, Edwin was a popper musician gazing through a shop window at a shiny musical instrument, which by the way, he literally was that too. At the same time, he was excelling at fly time. He was also excelling at the flute. Just to give you a sense, this is a YouTube video, Edwin posted of him covering Master of Puppets by Metallica, playing all the parts on different flutes.

1 (22m 21s):
Anyway, he was finally admitted to the Royal Academy of Music in London, but he didn't bring any of his fly time gear, or feathers with him. He said Customs wouldn't have appreciated his birdie bag. Around the same time, a fly tieing friend in Canada and something of a mentor to Edwin sent him an email saying basically, Hey, while you're over there, you've gotta check out this place north of London, a branch of the Natural History Museum in a town called Train. He attached pictures of drawers filled with brilliantly colorful bird specimens. They weren't on display, they were stored away in a special wing of the museum that the general public isn't allowed into Act three.

1 (23m 1s):
The museum, The train, is this big old brick tutor building from the 1880s. On the outside it looks more like a private mansion or a boys school than a museum. The only way you can see that special bird collection is for legitimate research purposes. So Edwin came up with a plan, a lie. He emailed the museum and told them he needed to photograph the birds for a friend's PhD thesis. And on November 5th, 2008, he brought a camera to the museum, signed the visitor logbook using his own name, and was escorted to the Birds of Paradise Collection. You can tell a research specimen of a bird from a mile away, their eye sockets are stuffed with cotton. Their wings folded down at their sides, legs stiff.

1 (23m 43s):
They're referred to as bird skins. And importantly, the legs have these tags attached to them with the species and date and other biodata. And in this case, Alfred Wallace's signature. Without that tag, the specimen isn't a specimen anymore, it's just a bird. Who knows where the hell it came from. But research, of course, was the last thing on Edwin's mind, looking at the birds. He was just in awe of their arresting beauty. He made this analogy, he said, if I put a gold brick on the table, it's really impressive. There's a shock value of understanding. Wow, that's really valuable.

2 (24m 17s):
And then this is the, this is what he told me. He goes, if you go to Fort Knox, if you go into the vault, there's a drastically different feeling than just seeing a, a gold brick quote for a fly tire. For someone who understands the feathers and sees the potential in them, and who really has a passion, I guess you could call it an obsession. I don't like to use it because it sounds like a negative term, but that overwhelming, wow. What have I just seen feeling was all that I had. And I remember it to this point because it was just so extraordinary. And the sad thing he told me is that many, many, many, well, most people have no idea what that feels like.

1 (25m 5s):
Edwin photographed all sorts of different species of birds that day. And he says he wasn't casing the museum that first time. He just wanted to look, except he also took pictures of the area around the museum. Those surely were not interesting photographs, but they may have proved useful later on. Oh, and also

2 (25m 22s):
He opens up Microsoft Word on its computer and creates a file called plan for museum invasion.no,

3 (25m 33s):
He

2 (25m 33s):
Does. That's very good. And it's a little on the nose. I know, but you don't think anyone's ever gonna see your hard drive. You know, like in some ways it was like a, it's a smart thing to do. Like to build a list of the things that you're gonna need to pull off a museum heist. You don't wanna just wing that, wing it. Hey. No, but I mean, he wrote on there that he, I mean, he would need a glass cutter. And I said, was this like one of those things you see in the movie where, you know, it's some perfect disc shaped glasses

1 (26m 5s):
Exactly. Like in Pink

2 (26m 7s):
Panther. Yeah. And it, it was just like a handheld, like, almost like an exacto knife. And I was like, well, did you practice? And he is like, no, I didn't think it was gonna be that hard.

1 (26m 18s):
The evening of June 23rd, 2009, Edwin finished playing a concert at the Royal Academy of Music and boarded a train to train. According to him, he brought along only one empty suitcase, a pair of latex gloves he took from his doctor's office, some wire clippers, a little l e d light, and the glass cutter Act four, the heist.

9 (26m 47s):
So he came up, Edwin came up from the station, he's sang on foot with his suitcase on the night, obviously he'd been up here before.

1 (26m 55s):
The detective on the case, Adele Hopkins took Kirk to the crime scene up public footpath 37 in tr to a sort of secluded area outside the museum.

9 (27m 5s):
And then came along here. And then he's saying he shined up this wall, which is doable up here onto the top.

1 (27m 15s):
He clips some strands of barbed wire in order to get to a window.

9 (27m 18s):
This window here, which has now got the bars

1 (27m 21s):
And was the reason he brought the glass cutter, which it turns out he dropped along the way somewhere.

2 (27m 26s):
He had a moment of doubt where he started saying to himself, maybe that's some kind of sign that I'm not supposed to do this. Like maybe I should just bail on this whole thing. Hmm. But that this other voice in his head said, no, you've been planning this forever. Like, just figure it

1 (27m 46s):
Out. So he used a different kind of glass cutter, a giant rock,

9 (27m 49s):
And then just smashed one of the windows and then went in.

1 (27m 55s):
Edwin says he's not sure how he didn't cut himself up on the glass.

2 (27m 58s):
And an alarm is triggered in the museum. And there is a security guard there that night. This is a very contentious point, but Edwin told me that he thinks that the security guard was engrossed in a soccer match. The museum virulently denies this. And they told me the security, that particular security guard doesn't even like soccer. But one thing that we're certain of is that an alarm was triggered. The security guard did not notice it. And Edwin had the run of the place

1 (28m 32s):
And he was in there undetected for at least an hour. It was a weirdly easy thing to pull off. His plan had just been to take a couple of the best specimens of each species, but in the dark with just his little l e d pinch light. He couldn't see which were the best ones. So he just started grabbing whatever he could fit in his hands. The Ingas were small, he bagged about a hundred of those. The relend and Kess though were trickier. He had to carefully coil their long tails in order to make them fit. He moved from cabinet to cabinet, sometimes emptying whole drawers or nearly, he took 47 of the museum's, 48 red rough fruit crow. He only left the last one cuz he didn't see it wedged in the back of the tray

9 (29m 15s):
Because he is been here before. He knew exactly where to go for what he wanted, filled up his suitcase, wouldn't believe it, would you? And just walk back to the train station.

1 (29m 25s):
Kirk tried to get Edwin to describe the feeling that he had loading the birds into the suitcase, but sitting together in the hotel in Dusseldorf, Edwin was strangely devoid on this score. He told Kirk, it wasn't like, ah, they're mine now. Ho, ho, ho. It was surprisingly unexciting and technical, like, how do I make them fit though he did admit that even he was amazed, he managed to pull it off. Edwin said, quote, the fact that essentially an idiot with a rock could steal a suitcase full of birds from the Natural History Museum. Even as I think about it, and I've thought about this myself, it's absurd. And then he went out the way he came in, shoved the suitcase back out of the window first and climbed out after it.

1 (30m 5s):
At which point this total exhaustion fell over him, dragging one foot after the other back to town. And mixed in with the fatigue was paranoia. When he got to the train platform, every set of footfalls on the walkway above him was a potential threat. And he was there for hours. He had missed the last train back to London that night and had to sit on the platform with a million dollars worth of birds until four in the morning.

2 (30m 31s):
He got back to his room, had this kind of euphoric moment where he laid out all the birds and kind of realized the, the success of his hall

1 (30m 42s):
On the floor.

2 (30m 43s):
Or were I, I think that he laid him out on his bed. Did

1 (30m 47s):
He like roll around dead

2 (30m 49s):
Birds? I can't, that I don't know. But there was nobody else on planet earth that had this many flawless specimens of these species to now be sitting with this hall. Like it would just, he would punch through to the highest level of fly time because he wouldn't want for anything. And he would just have this kind of, you could just, you're totally in a different game now and no one else is able to play with it, you know?

1 (31m 21s):
And if they wanted to play, they'd have to pay through the nose again. Edwin had stolen 299 birds from the museum. He would never have to wonder again where his next feather was coming from. The broken window wasn't discovered until the following morning. The cops were called in.

2 (31m 37s):
They look around and the museum and the cops together conclude that nothing seems to have been stolen.

1 (31m 44s):
Wait, what?

2 (31m 46s):
Yeah, they went looking for the things that they knew had a huge market value, like Darwin's Birds,

1 (31m 53s):
Darwin's birds, the famous Finch is, which were still safely cuddled in their drawer. Once again, Alfred Wallace was second best to Darwin.

2 (32m 2s):
Yeah, I went

1 (32m 3s):
Through

2 (32m 3s):
All that. That's, to me, it was like one of the final blows to him is that if they had cared about Wallace as much as they should, they would've gone and checked to make sure that Wallace's birds were still there, but they didn't. And if they had done that, they would've found out right away that they had been robbed. They would've had a big headstart on things. But as it happened, it took them a almost like it was well over a month before they even found out that they were robbed

1 (32m 27s):
35 days. In fact, the closed circuit surveillance cameras in the town of Tring reset after 28 days in a statement to us, the museum said, I'm paraphrasing here, that there's nothing more important than the security and welfare of the collection. And after the theft, they changed how they grant access to the collections and also beefed up their security measures. Back five, the investigation. It was only when someone wrote to the museum with a question about one of the species that a curator went to. That cabinet opened the drawer and saw that it was empty.

1 (33m 11s):
It was a huge blow. The curators at the train are part of a long lineage carrying for and protecting this collection. During the blitz of London in World War II bombs raining down everywhere. It was their predecessors who bundled up the museum's bird specimens and secreted them out of the city up to their new location in Trang. That's why they're there. So they'd be safe. And now under the watch of collections manager, Robert Priest Jones, this happened.

10 (33m 38s):
There is a missing chunk from the record. And in something like the Flame bar bird, it is a missing chunk that, you know, a a, a really substantial possibly over the half of the world's resource of that species is now missing. The whole thing was a complete kick in the guts. It was desperately, deeply depressing.

1 (33m 59s):
Alfred Wallace's Birds survived Hitler, but not Edwin Rest. The investigators didn't have a lot of obvious clues to go on. There was almost no physical evidence. But had the police or the museum looked in the visitor's log, they would've found Edwin's full name, which if someone had Googled it, they would've found edwin ris.com on which he was selling some of their specimens, using their Latin names. They also would've quickly discovered that he played the flute. And if they had gone looking for the birds on eBay or the fly tieing forums, they would've found birds for sale from someone with the handle. Flute player.

1 (34m 39s):
19 88, 1 of the posts was titled Indian Crow Feathers for Sale, buying New Flute. If any of the buyers asked, Edwin made up stories as to where the birds came from, but mostly no one asked. They didn't wanna know. The way Edwin finally got caught was sort of random. A tip came in from a fly tire who had seen a bird skin at a festival in the Netherlands of all places that looked like it might have come from the train. And the guy traced it back to flute player 1988 on eBay. It took some doing, but the police finally tracked Edwin down and showed up at his apartment with a warrant. One year after the break-in, he confessed immediately brought the officers into his bedroom where his girlfriend was still sleeping and showed them the birds.

1 (35m 27s):
Since he confessed and pled guilty, the case went right to sentencing. Edwin was looking at 10 years for burglary and 14 years for selling stolen goods. But during the sentencing process, Edwin's lawyers brought in a psychologist who diagnosed him with Asperger's syndrome that changed everything. The judge in his statement said that Edwin's crime wholly merited a lengthy prison sentence. He said the crime amounted to quote a natural history disaster of world proportions. But he said, because of the diagnosis, an illegal precedent in the UK involving Asperger's, a long prison sentence would probably be overturned on appeal. So he sentenced dead wind to one year suspended.

1 (36m 7s):
There was a financial penalty too, but no time behind bars of the 299 birds, a third of them came back to the train unscathed. Another third had been plucked at or dismantled or in some way compromised chiefly their bio data tags had been removed with the date and species and Alfred Wallace's signature, which meant those specimens were now useless to science. And the last third did not come back to the museum. They were gone missing. Some of them were sold, but certainly not all of them. Where were they?

2 (36m 46s):
When Edwin was caught, he pleaded his guilt, which meant that the, the investigation stopped and there was no search for the, for anything else. The museum wasn't looking for it, that British police wasn't looking for it. And I, as I was starting to dig around in these forums, and I would see occasions of guys cracking jokes about the heist and like, it wasn't like it was a, a reformed community. I was like, this is nuts. Like, like someone's gotta find these things.

1 (37m 14s):
And Kirk is someone who can't stop himself when he comes across an injustice that he might actually be able to fix. Also, this unsettling thing happened during the interview. Kirk says, Edwin just didn't seem like someone with Asperger's. And after six of their eight hours together, he told him. So Edwin responded that he hadn't exhibited any obvious symptoms of the disorder until he was in the evaluation room not long before sentencing. He said, I became exactly what I was supposed to be

2 (37m 41s):
If I'm being honest. I was pissed off. Like this is, this started out as just a quirky, funny story to me. But when I learned about Wallace, when I learned about the dent that we have to these specimen collections and that they were still out there, a lot of them were still missing. Then it took on as more serious, you know, valence that were suddenly I was like, okay, this isn't just like a funny thing. Like there's, you can't go back and get a, another bird from 1860 anymore that that bird's gone. And what I met was a kid who was not remorseful, who kind of grimaced when I referred to him as a thief at one point.

2 (38m 29s):
And he told me that he doesn't think of himself as a thief. You know, are we at the anger level at this point? Like probably a approaching there because now it's as if this is a case closed and no one's looking for these birds. And I'm still on these forums seeing people trading and selling things that look suspiciously like Edwin's Birds

1 (38m 55s):
Had Edwin hidden a bunch of way and was still selling them with someone else selling them. Kirk couldn't let it go. And then he had a kind of breakthrough and became certain that he knew where all of the missing specimens were coming up. Kirk goes and confronts his prime suspect and he learns that ornithologists can have serious potty mouths that's in a minute from Chicago Public Radio. When our program continues

11 (39m 28s):
Support for this American life comes from T I A A. Chances are your thinking about retirement and wondering about the what ifs. What if I don't make enough? What if I'm not saving enough? T I A A can help you create a saving strategy that addresses your biggest need in retirement income for life. Want guaranteed lifetime income after you retire? Lett I a a help grow your savings, guarantee your interest, get lifetime income. Learn more att i a.org. Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association, New York. New York issues lifetime annuities guarantees are based upon TIAA's claims Pain Ability. Squarespace is the all in one platform for building your brand and growing your business online. Get started with a best in class website template and customize it to fit your needs.

11 (40m 11s):
Browse the category of your business to find a perfect starting place. Sell your products on an online store. Whether you sell physical or digital products, Squarespace has the tools you need to start selling online. Head to squarespace.com/daily for free trial. And when you're ready to launch, use offer code daily to save 10% off your first purchase of a website or domain.

1 (40m 32s):
It's this American Life. I'm Sean Cole in for Ira Glass. Today's show, the Feather Heist, the true story of one of the weirdest capers in recent history, which was also a tragic loss to natural history. And it's the story of Kirk Johnson who took it upon himself to reinvestigate the theft of 299 bird specimens from the train museum north of London, act six. The suspect. Kirk, of course, asked Edwin wrist about the missing bird skins when they were together in Dusseldorf. Edwin told him the police took everything from him. They had everything. He also in the interview called into question whether the museum knew how many were still missing and suggested they never really knew how many they had in the first place.

1 (41m 16s):
But the people at the train had given Kirk this document, a meticulous accounting of what had come back to them and what was still unaccounted for. And Kirk had it with him. This is him reading it to Edwin in the hotel room.

13 (41m 29s):
I mean this is like a pretty thorough, like this, the number of specimens missing. July oh nine, intact specimen with labeled without label. Approximate number of specimens represented by feathers and skin fragments. And then a total estimate of sort of consolidated. I know this is weird, this,

2 (41m 48s):
I said this doesn't seem haphazard

13 (41m 50s):
Like, and

2 (41m 51s):
And Edwin said, no, it doesn't seem haphazard. I would agree. It looks very, very thorough and it looks very calculated, I guess. And so I said, well, so then if that's accurate, where are they? And he goes, if someone has them, I really don't know about it. And the question then is, does one individual have them or is it parceled out over time? And I, I look up at him and I said, but aren't you the person most uniquely positioned to answer that? And he says, in what sense? And I looked at him, I was like, you are the one that took them. And, and after kind of a long-winded response, he said, I don't have them fundamentally,

1 (42m 37s):
He used the word fundamentally.

2 (42m 38s):
Yes.

1 (42m 40s):
Now a number of Edwin's customers returned the feathers and bird parts and whole birds that they bought from him to the museum. In some cases, Edwin's dad reimbursed them spending thousands of dollars. The museum was now faced with the bizarre task of having to calculate how many feathers equaled one red reft fruit crow. And factoring all of that in the number of outstanding birds on the spreadsheet shrank down to 64. And as Kirk waited through all of the past sales of birds online, doing way back, machine searches and stuff like that, this sort of pattern started to emerge. That seemed odd. There was another user who had clearly posted specimens that came from Edwin's Stash,

2 (43m 18s):
This different user named Goku, G O K U.

1 (43m 22s):
Either it was Edwin under another name or someone who was working with him to sell the birds an accomplice.

2 (43m 28s):
And I really did not know the answer for a long time. But this Goku guy suddenly became like a big person of interest to me.

1 (43m 37s):
Kirk started mapping all of Edwin's closest associates in the fly tieing world. And he developed a shortlist as to who Goku might be if it wasn't Edwin. And then one day Kirk happened to be visiting with an ornithologist at Yale named Rick Prem, one of the head curators at the Peabody Museum,

2 (43m 52s):
MacArthur Genius Guggenheim recipient. And you walk in and he's just like dropping the F-bomb right and left. And he's just, I mean I love this guy and

14 (44m 2s):
I wrote these notes because I was trying to get Fish and Wildlife service to bust these fuckers.

1 (44m 7s):
Rick Prem had taken an enraged interest in the tri case himself. Like Kirk, he had taken copious notes, kept track of the sales online and listening to the two of them talk. It's like they've each met the only other person in the world who's not only heard of but loves justice passionately the same band he worshiped in high school.

14 (44m 26s):
I mean, did you get, did you ever see risks? You never saw his website at the day, like when he was busted? What was on his website? I his website's down now. Yeah. So, but did you ever record it? No, I have. I've got his whole website. All those screenshots. Yeah. No.

1 (44m 46s):
And looking at Edwin's website definitively narrowed the shortlist of who Goku might be down to one guy.

14 (44m 53s):
That's okay. Long there. Right there. Long when

1 (44m 57s):
Long when another top notch fly tire, who is exactly Edwin's age? They're friends Long Wen lives in Norway.

14 (45m 4s):
Yes. It's so perfect. You have no idea how helpful that is. Wow. I mean this is why I did.

1 (45m 11s):
And Kirk had other evidence implicating long some Facebook exchanges, Edwin saying, did your box arrive pictures of the two of them on a trip to Japan, after which all kinds of new birds were posted for sale by Goku, not only that other members of the community were openly accusing long of working with Edwin, telling him, we know it's you. Your days are numbered. Now Edwin has insisted all along that long was not involved in the highest he's defended long against accusations on the internet. And he told Kirk that long was not involved. And then he put Kirk in touch with long and long. The only other person Kirk knew of, who clearly seemed to be selling the stolen birds, agreed to talk Act seven Oslo.

1 (46m 2s):
Kirk thought maybe long had been at the museum with Edwin that night. There was always a question as to how Edwin pulled this off on his own, maybe Long had put him up to it in the first place. He pictured him being wealthy and manipulative, using Edwin as a pawn. And when Kirk's plane landed in Oslo, he was just about jumping out of his skin. He was so eager to talk with Long, he took a train out to a little suburb of the city. Long met him at the station. He was a teenage looking 20 something with a big smile in Chuck Taylor's.

2 (46m 29s):
I had miraculously convinced him to do the interview at his home cuz I had this kind of fantastical notion that he would slip up and I would, you know, find some partially exposed wing under the couch or something like that, you know, and like

1 (46m 51s):
A box of dead birds would come tumbling out of

2 (46m 54s):
A closet. Yeah, yeah. When he was trying to reach for some sugar packets or something. So we walk into the apartment and out of the corner of my eye, there's like this green flash just bombing towards my face. And it, it's his parrot that just was loose in the apartment and, and flapped over and, and landed on my shoulder and, and and spent most of the, I think that was like a seven hour interview the first day. And it was a, like an uncomfortable interview where I'm, I'm learning all of these things about his life, but also confronting him with stuff. And his bird is meanwhile like maybe nibbling on my earlobe.

15 (47m 36s):
I hope I'm not being like a jerker, like I feel like the worst best ever. Like all these questions, but

16 (47m 44s):
No, but those are questions I

1 (47m 46s):
And something else happened when Kirk walked into the apartment. All notions of long being the rich conniving mastermind of the train heist fell away long, was from a family of Vietnamese refugees who had fled the war to Norway in the seventies. He started tying flies in a boy's home when he was a kid, basically as an escape

16 (48m 3s):
Because the things were Turin in our family. I I'm in, yeah, I don't think about that now because it's like past. But things were bad and we had to do our best to just go through it with parents being in Vietnam and all the, and the after the war and stuff.

1 (48m 29s):
And Long said, he never really had what he called true friends. And around that same time, after he had started tying flies, he was reading about other fly tires online. And he heard about this one kid in America who was exactly his age.

16 (48m 41s):
I think I start hearing about Edwin when I was 15 or 16 because he was really famous back then.

1 (48m 52s):
Long looked up to Edwin, they met online first, just writing back and forth. They had a ton in common. So they decided to meet that Japan trip was the first time they saw each other in person. They tied flies together there. Edwin had already stolen the birds at that point, but he hadn't been caught yet.

2 (49m 8s):
And you know, he's telling me that Edwin reached out to him to ask him to help sell these things. But just as a friend, he just said, Hey, I've, I found these things. Can you post these things online for me? And long thought that that was what being a friend was. He thought he was gonna help Edwin make enough money to buy his new flute. And he also felt really flattered and honored that Edwin Wrist was paying attention to him

1 (49m 41s):
Long told Kirk, he mostly just reposted some of Edwin's ads, including pictures of birds. But it is true that Edwin sent him a bunch of presorted packets of feathers and three or four whole bird skins to sell. And long did sell. Some of them long says he didn't know any of it was stolen at the time, which Edwin confirms, Edwin made up stories about where the birds came from and long never stopped to think how implausible they were. Partly because he was blinded by his love of the birds, but also probably he was blinded by his infatuation. For Edwin, looking back long says Edwin was probably just trying to attract less attention to himself.

16 (50m 16s):
My assumption is just like he wanted to erase his traces, but the traces all, all there. So I, I don't know why.

15 (50m 25s):
But he's using you as a friend. Like he's, do you see like, it's not a, it's not a nice thing

16 (50m 32s):
For you? No, it's, it's absolutely not. And I had like a tough like, decision about how to deal this friendship at that time. I think when, when he get exposed, I was really shocked I was frozen from the forum because people, they assume that I was the, the, the one responsible for everything. I was like considering if I should turn my back because it's reasonable for me to, to erase this friendship and you know, like, you can't do this to France.

2 (51m 11s):
It made me like really upset with Edwin. I don't know how you look at this chain of events and see them as equals. I don't know how you look at the chain of events and see this as anything other than Edwin using him as a fence to potentially take the fall for him if things got, you know, hairy,

1 (51m 43s):
Sitting with long Kirk ultimately turned to the question of where the missing birds were. But instead of just asking him outright, he eased into the subject with that kind of Colombo. Just one more question, gentle persistence. Meanwhile long sometimes sounded like a disgraced banker at a congressional hearing saying he couldn't remember things that seemed basic. For instance, Kirk asked him whether the customers paid Edwin directly or if Long had handled any of the money.

16 (52m 9s):
Like I, I don't remember if I received the money or if the money went to him, but you

15 (52m 15s):
Would remember, right? I mean, I'm not like, I'm not, I'm not trying to be an asshole, but you would remember if people like these things were selling for thousands of dollars, like Yeah, like you don't, you think you would remember?

16 (52m 27s):
I don't think I sold things for thousands of dollars. What I remember most is selling small amounts like packages of feathers.

15 (52m 38s):
I don't want to be rude, but like there's, there's another point where I'm like, I'm really just,

16 (52m 42s):
Yeah, I, I understand because I spent like four years to try to forget all this. Yeah, yeah. So what are you doing is like, try to bring up all in the surface. And so the the details is quite unclear to my myself because I I trying to close this case.

1 (52m 59s):
Yeah. Kirk thought to himself, you and me both buddy.

15 (53m 3s):
There are still a lot of skins that are missing. Yeah. Like a lot. Yeah. And

16 (53m 8s):
I don't have in the skins and many people would probably think that I possess those skins.

2 (53m 16s):
Why?

16 (53m 17s):
Because I was so close related to advent. That would be a natural thing to assume.

15 (53m 25s):
It would be very logical. Like yeah, it would be reasonable for them to think that. No. Yeah.

16 (53m 30s):
So I guess that's, that's what I'm saying.

15 (53m 32s):
Yeah. If that's not true, then a yeah, how can we prove that that's not true?

16 (53m 41s):
I can't, I can prove it.

15 (53m 42s):
You can or you

16 (53m 43s):
Can't, can't.

15 (53m 47s):
Where do you think then the question B is where, where are

16 (53m 50s):
They? I don't know.

15 (53m 52s):
How is that possible? How do you not know? Like, you know, like, I mean you and Ed.

16 (53m 56s):
I, I know what Ed, like, I don't know where, because tiny part was sold through me. Like you can't like ask for a receipt for not not having skins.

1 (54m 19s):
Kirk left Long's apartment feeling bad for him, but also frustrated. It still seemed like maybe he was holding something back and he didn't know if he would ever see long again. But then the next morning long was waiting for Kirk in the lobby of his hotel. He told Kirk he had been thinking and decided to quit tying flies with exotic bird feathers. He was afraid though that he'd lose the few friends he still had. He said they only liked him because he tied beautiful flies Kirk and long spent the next two days hanging out, they walked around the city together, mostly sightseeing. At one point they met up on the steps of the National Gallery where amongst painting the scream was stolen in 1994 by thieves who broke through a window.

2 (54m 59s):
And I just decided like, ah, screw it. I'm just gonna, I'm gonna just do one more 10 attack on his defenses here and see if I can get him to admit anything.

17 (55m 13s):
I heard from like two separate people that like in the last year you've told them that you have so much Indian crow and you don't, you don't have any need for it. And, and so like, what am I supposed to do with that? Like when I,

18 (55m 29s):
You do

17 (55m 30s):
Whatever you, but is it true? Yeah. That you have a lot of Indian crow?

18 (55m 34s):
No, I have like, I have, I have still have some of the packages of the ones I was supposed to sell.

17 (55m 45s):
Okay.

1 (55m 46s):
Long kept those packages. He was supposed to sell for himself after Edwin was arrested. He sent back the bird skins, but he kept the feathers

2 (55m 53s):
And I suddenly, I was like, okay, like this is now we're getting somewhere

17 (55m 58s):
Like how many,

2 (55m 59s):
And he was just miserable under this line of questioning. But he finally estimated that he had between six and 800 of these feathers from, from Edwin.

17 (56m 9s):
But 800 is a lot of feathers.

18 (56m 11s):
Yeah, I know.

1 (56m 13s):
And he didn't have that many anymore. He had sold half of them again back before he knew they were stolen and kept the rest, which he had been tying with ever since. He was now down to, to about a hundred feathers. Kirk says long also admitted that the number of birds Edwin sent him was more like 10 or 20 rather than just a few. We check this with long and he refutes it. In any case, Kirk finally felt like he was closing in on what he'd been after. Obviously he had no real standing to be asking any of these questions or making demands. He wasn't the police. He didn't work for the museum, but he had been on this case so doggedly for so long.

2 (56m 56s):
I was like, long, you know, you have to show me these things. Right? And he kind of very quietly said yes. And then he started crying and he, he started crying. Yeah. And he, you know, he told me he's never told anyone about this. That he, not even his family knows about this like that, that he's never admitted this to anyone. And I saw someone who was really struggling with his actions and in a way that I hadn't seen with Edwin, you know, that there was no, there were no tears in the Edwin interview. There were no, I mean there was a kind of a, you know, he thought it was just as crazy as I did this whole story attitude.

2 (57m 38s):
You know? So

1 (57m 39s):
Not only are you getting a better accounting of there, you know, co involvement and the number of birds that were involved, but also there's something else that you've been looking for, which is like contrition kind

2 (57m 54s):
Of Yeah. Yeah.

1 (57m 56s):
Kirk And Long took the train back to Long's apartment where long dipped in and fetched his binder of feathers, sort of like a stamp up with little pockets. They brought it to a local bar, ordered a couple of beers and opened it.

17 (58m 8s):
Can I take pictures? Sure. I want to ask you like the, just like, what's, what

2 (58m 14s):
Kind of,

1 (58m 14s):
And four years after he had first heard about the highest, Kirk had them in his hands, feathers that no one else knew about, that Edwin wrist had stolen from the string museum. It was the first time he had seen stolen trim museum feathers in the wild fugitive feathers. Kirk says, holding that binder. He felt a straight line back to Wallace. Wallace who wrote All living things were not made for man. Still, Wallace probably never pictured two guys pouring over the detached feathers of his birds in a bar in suburban Oslo. So

17 (58m 45s):
This is like, these are tri and this is,

16 (58m 48s):
It's this is string. This is not string. Okay. This is string.

17 (58m 52s):
And these are, okay. So there's like,

16 (58m 54s):
Shall we talk? Just count, only the train first and then tell about every

17 (58m 60s):
Yeah, that'd be great.

16 (59m 0s):
Okay. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6,

2 (59m 2s):
And

16 (59m 3s):
10.

2 (59m 4s):
I just remember very clearly having two thoughts. One was, here they are. I found them.

17 (59m 12s):
And how can you tell so quickly which ones are, oh wait, was okay. Sorry. You're at 40 there,

16 (59m 17s):
41.

2 (59m 19s):
And then at the same time, recognizing just how pathetic it all was and how small it all was. There weren't, there wasn't a box of missing birds. There were no labels. These things I knew what would happen. They're, they're just plucked, harvested feathers from 150 year old birds that will never be returned to their, you can't reattach 'em to a bird. You can't do anything with them. Yeah. And so it was this complicated moment where I was really kind of like proud but also a little embarrassed because I was like, this is not, there's nothing really triumphant about this moment.

1 (1h 0m 14s):
Kirk told long, he thought Long should send the feathers back to the museum, partly because it might help long put the whole ugly business behind him. Long agreed. It took him a few months, but he finally stuffed them all into an envelope with no return address. Kirk learned of two other full bird skins that definitively came from the train. The buyer lives in South Africa and has no interest in sending them back. About 20 others belonging to a guy in Montreal look like possible train birds, but he's resold them already and say long sold 10 more of them that would bring the total number of birds unaccounted for down to 32, which means A, there's just no way to find out what happened to all of them anymore. And B Edwin is not the only fly tire in the world who felt okay about knowingly owning stolen property.

2 (1h 0m 60s):
Anyone who bought anything from him should send it back to the museum in whatever shape it's in. But what would

1 (1h 1m 8s):
Come of them sending back parts of birds or feathers or whatever you knew

2 (1h 1m 15s):
Nothing. No, no, no scientific value. I mean, maybe in a, you know, someone will figure out down the line how to figure, figure out which feather came from which bird, but it would just be a, a moral victory. Honestly. A moral

1 (1h 1m 30s):
Victory.

2 (1h 1m 30s):
Yeah. I mean, it's not there and I, I'm fully aware of that. Like they're not gonna be used, but they don't belong to this, to this community. They belong to that museum and, and the end of this should be everyone just return things that they know are stolen, even if it's two feathers and they can walk around with their head a little bit higher. And maybe that's just so stupid of me for suggesting this, but if the choice is between them returning it and them getting to keep it, that seems easy to me.

1 (1h 2m 1s):
But Kirk finally decided to let go of this case. He realized that he had become just as obsessive as Edwin about the birds. And as obsessive as Wallace for that matter. All three men for completely different reasons, spent years fixating over the very same birds, not the same species, the same physical animals. Wallace wanted knowledge. Edwin saw a lot of beautiful colors and guest dollar signs. And Kirk, though he knows how loony this sounds, wanted to avenge the birds as a last ditch effort. And with the museum's knowledge, he went on the main fly tying forum and said that the train was ready to accept any anonymous returns, no questions asked. He said, as much as I would personally like to know who might be in possession of any of the missing skins, it is much more important that they be returned.

1 (1h 2m 47s):
And I have included the museum's address below for anyone who is so inclined. I don't mean to lecture and imagine that some of you might be annoyed by this point, but I am challenging you to help remove this cloud that hangs over your hobby. Simply deleting any reference to what happened at the train doesn't seem like the best way of coming to terms with it. And then more than 40 members of the fly time community asked the moderator of the forum to delete Kirk's post and like so many other things in this story and disappeared. Kirk Johnson wrote an excellent book about the Museum Heist, which was the basis for this story, and is now being adapted into a TV series.

1 (1h 3m 33s):
It has lots of details we weren't able to get into in the show. It's called The Feather Thief Beauty Obsession and the Natural History Heist of the Century. Since this program first aired in 2018, Kirk has investigated four other natural history museum, heists, four other cases of people stealing birds in Frankfurt, Stuttgart, Florida, and in Los Angeles where he lives. We should say that Edwin Wrist was not responsible for any of those crimes.

3 (1h 4m 8s):
Bird.

1 (1h 4m 21s):
Our program was produced today by Mickey Meek with help from Dana Chivas, Neil Drumming, Damien Grave, Haja, Walt David Kestenbaum, Seth Lin, Anna Martin, Robin Simeon, Christopher Sw, Don Nelson, Matt Tierney, Julie Whitaker, and Diane Wu. Our senior producer for this episode was Brian Reed. The managing editor was Susan Burton. Production help on this rerun from Ala Mustafa Research help for Michelle Harris. Special thanks to Ellen Paul, James Costa and Marion Bentley. Our website is this american life.org. This American Life is delivered to public radio stations by prx, the Public Radio Exchange. Thanks as always to my boss, IRA Glass. You know, I happened to see him in the park last weekend with his two dogs, A Labradoodle and a Pomeranian. It's just the three of them walking along and he got really hostile when I approached them.

2 (1h 5m 4s):
We're a small, tight-knit community and you do not want to piss us off.

1 (1h 5m 9s):
I'm Sean Cole Iris, back next week with more stories of this American life.

3 (1h 5m 14s):
We're the cold winter winds

20 (1h 5m 27s):
Next week on the podcast of this American life here in America. But when the guys that he grew up with in Sierra Leone told him they were all on the gym hoping that if they sculpted their bodies enough, they would find wives overseas. It did not. They right with Saed, even though they can name guys who did it,

21 (1h 5m 47s):
Salam scientists Alpha,

20 (1h 5m 52s):
But then Saed talk to them more about it and the whole thing look very different. This next week on the podcast, on your local public radio station.