3 (0s):
Support for This American Life comes from Capital One Capital One is reimagining banking by offering accounts with no fees or minimums that can be open from anywhere in five minutes Capital One. What's in your wallet Capital One and a Support for This American Life comes from Royal Caribbean climb a volcano in st. Kitts one day zipline through the Puerto Rican jungle the next day open your mind and push your limits come seek the Royal Caribbean ships registered in the Bahamas. Of course, it's the time of year for making resolutions and turning over new leaves and starting over and a few years back when Dave was doing that.

3 (44s):
He was turning his life around he was trying different things. He's trying to figure out what to do next one of the places that he looked was the Howard Stern Show. I think that was a really good choice. I know everybody is not a fan of Howard Stern but I am and I think that one of the best things about the show is that it's always been a place where people talk with this kind of brutal and funny honesty about themselves. One of Howard's innovations that he took the strain of crude dark confessional comedy. That's always been a big part of stand up ever since Lenny Bruce Howard figured out a way to turn that into radio daily radio anyway to get back to this guy Dave. He loved that. Show and in 2015.

3 (1m 24s):
He was a few months sober and his early 40s working as a waiter at Katz's Deli in New York City when he was younger. He'd worked in television hosting an interview show for college kids, but ruined that career with Heroin addiction now sober in recovery. He needed a project he decided to do a podcast about drugs with the feeling of the Howard Stern Show like you remembered the years when comedian Artie Lange was on Howard Stern definitely my favorite period of Howard Stern what are they would come on every day. He would talk about his own drug problems. You would tell crazy stories who were talking this very real way about the mistakes that he was making his life at that time that he was not able to stop and Dave wanted to shoot for that.

3 (2m 6s):
He had co-host the show with his friend Chris who had met Chris years before in rehab they would spend hours in rehab smoking cigarettes and talking about the crazy things they done on drugs. That's what they wanted their podcast to be people. Come on tell wild drug stories and very important to Dave. No recovery talk which they've found to be sanctimonious and annoying. This show is not necessarily about recovery. It's about drugs maybe eventually it will be who knows if this show is ever about recovery. You got to get somebody else in this spot. I'm out. Okay case this isn't clear in these recordings Dave is the one with a deeper voice in the loud opinions. Chris is the other guy the show is about drug story.

3 (2m 47s):
It's not about recovery. It's not about doing the next right thing. It's about the last wrong. Nothing, but maybe with the evolution of your recovery. That's what the show will become notice how at the end there. Chris is not agreeing with Dave because it's 10 years younger than Dave but started drugs and drinking at an earlier age. He was just 11 or 12 and is way more extreme stories about it putting a year in prison. He's also spent way more time in rehab and at this point he'd been sober for nearly two years versus four months for Dave and all of that gave him a different feeling about recovery and sobriety. I was going to talk about it. But Dave was adamant sobriety isn't all that entertaining first and foremost.

3 (3m 29s):
He wanted the podcast to be entertaining if this shows about recovery, it's going to be linked. So they tell drug stories was meant to be good for you. There's men to be fun. They listed in the comedy section of iTunes not self help if you want self-help. David said go to a meeting. They were going to call the show War Stories. But there's already a podcast called War Stories. It was about you know actual war with tanks and guns and stuff. So they came up with Dopey which really captures the spirit of the show perfectly as Chris put it two dopes talking about dope. Listen. I am so grateful to be sober and I'm so grateful to be able to talk about drugs, you know, like in a way where I'm not feeling bad about it, you know, it's it's not even euphoric recall.

3 (4m 22s):
It's Funny and I think that's why we got along because we felt safe sort of doing that with each other, you know, and sometimes you kind of feel a little judge with people when you sort of recount funny stuff that's happened to yeah, they'll be there's going to be no judgment of drug use past or present. They recorded the first episode on a laptop no microphone or anything. You're a fish tank in Dave's apartment in Manhattan. Maybe you could hear the hum of the tank in that recording but between this episode episode 1 and episode 143 of Dopey just two and a half years later. Their lives are going to change drastically baby's head. 143. Dopey wasn't completely different and the episodes in between the chronicled the story where so much happens to them and some others things lots of drug users face, but because you know podcast and radio are so intimate it all gets documented in the most unfiltered way Dave and Chris wanted the show to be just for fun, but ended up being so much more.

3 (5m 18s):
Today we're going to have two stories like this story is about a kind of DIY radio very different kinds of DIY radio, but in both stories, it's amateurs inventing how to talk about what it is that they're going through and really both stories are dispatches from two very different battlefields. I know it sounds a little Grand but really like this story from the opioid epidemic and then the other story is from a small town in Syria in the middle of the war that's going on there. And we hear about life during that war in this way that is much more personal and close up than we usually get from WBZ Chicago. It's This American Life. I'm Ira Glass stay with us like one two dopes Kings.

3 (6m 8s):
So, okay. Remember the premise two guys, Dave and Chris. They have this podcast. It's called Dopey didn't achieve is from our staff. Listen to dozens of hours of the podcast. In two and a half years and tells the story of what happened today shows a rear and by the way, so in Dana says last year that is really two years ago and a quick warning before we start since this is the podcast internet version of the show. We've removed the bleeps that we use when we do the show on the radio, if you prefer a bleep version of the show, it's on our website. Okay? Here's Dana.

1 (6m 38s):
We've been talking about this podcast for five minutes already. And the whole point of the podcast is to tell crazy drug stories. So let's get right to 1 this is from the very first episode Chris tells the Ori,

3 (6m 49s):
so I relapsed I don't even want to say a relapse I just started using again after a brief period of abstinence and I took a lot of Xanax about 60 bars for those of you that don't know hours no over the period of about three or four days. So so you took a hundred and twenty milligrams over four days. Yeah, and I blacked out for about a week and during that blackout. I robbed a veterinarian. I went into the veterinarian clinic. I told them my cat was having seizures and I needed phenobarbital ASAP. They told me something like, you know, we don't just hand out medications for the asking. Please fill out some paperwork and can we see your cat? Obviously, I had no cat with me if you don't have a cat at home.

3 (7m 30s):
I did have a cat at home Smeagol. And so I filled out the paperwork and while I was filling out the paperwork. I ended up putting it down and storming into the back knocked over the nurse and the veterinarian came into the medication storage room and tried to stop me. I got out the police came. I struggled with the police and fought them and got a bunch of assaults on the police officers. There was a helicopter in the scene. It was a big big deal. Just so you know something about Chris. He's Burley. Chris is a you're at least six feet. Yeah. He's like one of these Massachusetts Protestant white guys. He's very big and Broad and I would be scared if Chris got excited, but I'm a gentle person very gentle very gentle soul like a lamb.

1 (8m 14s):
If Chris is the lamb and a drug addicts clothing Dave is the Border Collie constantly circling Chris hurting him between drugstore. He's nipping at his ankles for his Boston accent.

3 (8m 25s):
Well, you you invite all your Facebook friends to like Dopey. No, I invite certain ones certain sex, which certain ones do invite up to your room inside certain friends up to my room

1 (8m 39s):
or for Chris's vaping

3 (8m 41s):
habit. What's the flavor? This flavor is the milk inspired by Momofuku this fucking vaping the end of the world. And it's

1 (8m 53s):
Chris on the other hand comes across as a sweet docile kind of dope who find subtle ways to subvert Deeds Alpha maleness like an episode 15. It's as easy as the word toodles. Okay

3 (9m 4s):
toodles. No. No, we don't say

1 (9m 6s):
toodles which Dave hates. So Chris starts saying it at the end of every show

3 (9m 11s):
toodles, please stop saying,

1 (9m 14s):
They do very little editing except they do bleep out people's last names. They want the show to be anonymous which is why I'm not using last names either by the way, and they use non-traditional bleeps like this one. Dobby is not the kind of show. You bring home to meet your parents Dave and Chris. We're a lot for one thing and obviously they're talking about heavy drug use, but it's not just that they can be insensitive and insulting to it is not politically correct by Design. They use the kind of language you might forgive your grandfather for using which is harder to stomach coming from a 30 or 40 year old today. And then sometimes there's also language you wouldn't forgive your grandfather for using I'm not going to play you that stuff on the first few episodes.

1 (9m 57s):
It's of Dobie. They run through most of their favorite drugstore. He's how Chris made wine from orange juice at rehab had Eve once stayed up all night doing coke heroin and ecstasy before appearing on Howard Stern how Chris shot crystal meth while at a Brain Injury Clinic. They're not supposed to be engaging in recovery talk. But of course, the only reason Dopey can exist is because Dave and Chris are both in recovery. There'd be no Dopey without it. So recovery keep slipping into the conversation even Dave does it

3 (10m 26s):
we're actually In a hurry because I have to go qualify it an Alcoholics Anonymous meeting at 8:00. Yeah, it's a live episode of Dopey basically basically, but more based on the recovery and of things I'm a little bit nervous about it. Are you yeah, just let it rip don't even think about it. That's the best way to do it. Chris

1 (10m 43s):
actually has a scholarly knowledge of 12-step philosophy and now and then he quotes by memory from the big book, which is sort of the Bible of Alcoholics

3 (10m 50s):
Anonymous and then they added the appendix to the book where they quote William James who says that you have a Virtual experience of the educational variety that's what you're talking about. And it's

1 (11m 2s):
actually the beginning for the first 20 episodes or so. They get like 500 downloads and episode so barely an audience, but they start hearing from people right away. They get their first fan email from some guy named Troy three weeks after they upload the first episode. I can't believe anyone is listening to them because their Newfound audience the Dopey Nation other people start emailing leaving reviews on iTunes some listeners leave voicemails. Their own War Stories their downloads grow back Tobar the average about a thousand downloads and episode.

3 (11m 33s):
So whoever the Dopey nation is now stay strong Dopey Nation.

1 (11m 39s):
There's a Reddit Thread about Dopey a few people even get Dopey tattoos with the show's logo and the word toodles underneath it one guy takes Dave and Chris out to a steak dinner. He tells them he didn't get sober until he started listening to their show Dave and Chris try to write back to every email they get they respond to comments on Facebook and Twitter people aren't turned off by the recovery talk. They like listening to sober guys having fun enjoying life in recovery. It gives them. Hope Chris says the listeners come. The debauchery and stay for the recovery. He calls his marketing strategy

3 (12m 12s):
rope-a-dope.

1 (12m 20s):
Dave and Chris know they have a finite number of drug stories between the two of them. So they develop a roster of recurring guests friends of theirs who are also sober near celebrities like Rob Reiner son, Nick Dave's dad Alan and then there's a guy named Todd one of Dave's best friends from college. They got addicted to heroin together and their 20s Dave always said if Todd got sober he could be the third host of Dopey. And had really wants to be on Dobby, but Todd is never sober.

3 (12m 50s):
Good story, you know where to call here. Yeah, you give me six months sobriety time and you're on the show. Yeah. He's doing community service and stuff. He's giving back please. He's giving back. But what do you know? Just get me some fucking clean time and you could come you could come back to the house. The three days such a fucking liar

1 (13m 29s):
Todd is one of the few recurring guest still actively using drugs. His life is in shambles. He's 42 and he can't hold down a job. He spends all his money on drugs lives in his parents apartment in Manhattan. He often just watches DVDs all day.

3 (13m 44s):
How you doing Todd?

1 (13m 48s):
That's Chris talking to Todd on episode 54.

3 (13m 51s):
I'm doing all right miserable miserable. Is that related to substance abuse? abuse Everything's really sounds what's not related to substance abuse these days Less in my life.

1 (14m 7s):
And this episode Todd tells a very Dopey story about getting so high on heroin. He passed out in a subway station and then slept through a meeting at the unemployment office the next

3 (14m 15s):
day the call failed

1 (14m 17s):
towards the end of the story The call drops and Dave says

3 (14m 20s):
dude. That's the worst story I've ever heard of my I thought it was fun for a second and then I realized poor Todd is in big trouble.

1 (14m 28s):
As a listener to me, it seems like Todd has a specific purpose on Dopey. He's a caricature of how not to treat your addiction an example the Dave and Chris can hold up to their listeners and say don't do it like this guy when Dave and Chris talk about recovery. They often talk about abstinence in 12-step programs. That's what worked for them. But the science shows that opioid addiction is best treated with medications like Suboxone and methadone which are associated with a 68 percent decrease in death. For a while and OPD was pretty clear that he thought medications were dangerous that you should learn to live without any substances. Chris was more middle of the road. Dave's opinions have changed by now.

1 (15m 9s):
He feels like whatever works best for you is what you should do. Listen a year in the making Dopey Dave moved out of the apartment with the fish tank and in with his partner Linda and their six-year-old daughter Chris eventually moved to Boston and started working towards a doctoral degree in Psychology. He was dating a med student named Danny they live Together had a dog. He was also working part-time for his sister's company which helps people who are struggling with addiction and other issues find treatment and he was working every other weekend at a sober living house by episode 96 of Dopey. They're getting about three thousand listeners a show. They decide to relabel the show. They move it from the comedy section on iTunes to the self-help section mainly because they thought they could compete better against other self-help podcasts rather than comedy podcasts.

1 (15m 56s):
But also because by now they've admitted to themselves they are in fact a self-help show. But anyway back to Todd on Dopey Todd is the foil to the sober good life to their successes where he Luck's control Dave and Chris now exercise restraint where he is depressed. They are content where he can't hold down a job. They're raising children getting Advanced degrees making a podcast every week

3 (16m 21s):
do something good for yourself tomorrow. Just do something just now just do something. And one thing is it all Builds on each other right or your whatever. All right, bud. I love you. Your first day of have a great evening. All right. Thanks for calling Todd. You got it boys. I'll talk to you later. But

1 (16m 44s):
that's

3 (16m 45s):
tough. Sad sad call. Hello, what's going on? What's up

1 (16m 59s):
an episode? 126 last March Todd's on the show again this time though. He's sober he's been to detox and moved into a sober living house. He refused to go to rehab so Dave and Chris arranged for him to move into the sober house where Chris Works in Western Massachusetts

3 (17m 15s):
some terrible. You just wake up. Are ours too many hours. I'll turn that frown upside down Todd. This is the first really sober call on Dopey. Let's date.

1 (17m 26s):
He keep saying how nice it is to talk to Todd when he's sober. He's happy to have his friend back Lucid. Dave tells him he bought some new equipment for Dopey the soundboard and three microphones an extra for when Todd

3 (17m 37s):
is back. Well, I bought a board that was smaller, but it could only have two mics and I was thinking well, what do we do when Todd gets home? So I went out and I bought another another board. the Todd board

1 (18m 4s):
Todd lasted a few months at the sober living house, but he got bored and one day he left move back in with his parents got a job. And then in June

3 (18m 15s):
for those of you who don't know this week was a terrible week for me. My very very very very very close friend Todd who is on Dopey? Anyway, Todd died a week ago yesterday so maybe eight days ago. He died. We don't know what happened. But I'm gonna guess it was an overdose. Yeah,

1 (18m 45s):
and how died in his parents house? He was 44 years

3 (18m 48s):
old. Well, I told my friends I told my friends he died and they said well, he's basically the most likely candidate to die and I agreed with them but like It's so sad to me that you never gets to be sober and he never gets to be free is never free. Yeah, it's like if you're out there and you think you're going to get away with it, you might not you know what I mean and like you guys should really fucking know that it could all end.

1 (19m 24s):
Somehow after 20 years of heavy drug use David never had a close friend died from an overdose. - Todd has his first one it changes things for him before. He laughs at the War Stories all these absurd situations and bad decisions. That should kill you but didn't he'd had the upper hand but now he didn't anymore those things that killed one of his best friends. Dave was the one who introduced Chris and Todd, they weren't close friends, but even still Dave thanks. Chris is a little cold about his death and Dave knows this is unfair, but he feels a little resentful towards Chris. Todd was in Chris's sober living facility right before he died. Why didn't he look out for him better?

1 (20m 11s):
Todd's death last summer just happens to coincide with an uptick in downloads on Dopey in July the downloads double when they land their biggest celebrity interview yet Artie Lange the comedian who inspired Dopey and this is

3 (20m 24s):
the gas. I want to know why I'm mad because what them guess. Yeah, it's not Meryl Streep.

1 (20m 28s):
He's episode 140 just two episodes after Todd's death already tells a bunch of stories about getting high on the Howard Stern Show on an airplane in a Santa suit.

3 (20m 39s):
So I'm Santa Claus. Next morning, if you hit the beard while

1 (20m 43s):
His companion come out of the beard a little unhinged during the interview, possibly. Hi. What

3 (20m 48s):
am I trying to stay strong doping a today stay strong don't be nation-state. The Autumn Wind is a pirate. Here we go past leaking from she

1 (21m 0s):
with a rollicking song He tramples

3 (21m 3s):
along swaggering boisterously

1 (21m 6s):
and the next episode of Dopey episode 141 Dave and Chris are on Skype. They do an RD recap Chris who's drug of choice was always cocaine things already was probably on cocaine. We talked about it for 30 minutes before Dave changes the

3 (21m 21s):
subject two weeks ago. I'm at work. Yeah, and you know, I know where

1 (21m 27s):
he's going is Dave wants to do a little recovery lesson two weeks before Chris had made a phone call to his sponsor and it was clear. He thought he was talking to Dave. So the sponsor got worried and called the friend of Chris's who texted Dave. Who freaked out and then I'm like, holy shit. So I started

3 (21m 44s):
texting you you texting who you texting me. So many I took a screenshot of it. You tell I was me like 12 times in 10 minutes or something.

1 (21m 53s):
Chris is one of those people who always text back even if he's sleeping. So when Dave didn't hear from Chris he sent a message to Annie Chris's Girlfriend Chris eventually resurfaced in calmed everyone down, but he was ticked the David contacted Annie. He was fine just a little sleepy and out of it. No reason to scare his

3 (22m 12s):
girlfriend happened and I got upset does just that it had to come back to Annie and like I never would get upset if somebody Express concern that's not true. You're going to say when I'm concerned all the time. If you take

1 (22m 36s):
just two weeks after Todd died. So Dave was admittedly on high alert and by To the story. He sees it from Chris's perspective. It's one of those irritating things that happens to people in recovery. You are slightly off one day and everyone assumes you're using again Dave explains

3 (22m 53s):
the point of this story. Obviously, you're fine. The point of the story is this is something that addicts have to go through who are using, you know who are lying, you know what I mean? Like they're covering up their shit or they just got clean and everybody is sure that they're still Getting high or in your situation, you know your four and a half years clean, but like what do you how do you think somebody should deal with that? You don't even

1 (23m 23s):
the next week they do episode 142. Normally they record the show on Friday night and Chris puts it online on Saturday morning, but that Friday Chris gets home from work trip to Texas and he's too exhausted to record the show. They agreed to do it Saturday. Saturday comes around and Chris is fighting with Annie. He tells Davies too upset to record the show. He needs to go to the gym then after the gym. He needs another hour Dave's getting pissed. He knows the Dopey nation is expecting an episode. They finally start recording late that night around 11:00. Chris is lackluster Dave's doing most of the work providing most of the energy and Chris keep screwing up and saying things that they leader have to bleep out like where you went on the work trip or sister's name.

1 (24m 8s):
For Dave last

3 (24m 8s):
name. It's amazing that Bob course is driving around and thinks you know, who I should talk to Dave. That's why did you say my last name? Now? You have to bleep. Fuck it. We put it in my notes. It doesn't even work because we've changed it so much now it's twice and what else what's wrong with you? I don't know. I'm stupid. I can't I can't. boys I said it once right. Chris what? How are we gonna get the show out? I'll do it tonight.

1 (24m 48s):
Steve's worried that Chris has lost interest in don't be that he's too busy with the other things in his life. Now his girlfriend his job his Doctorate. He starts wondering if Chris is going to quit and if he does what will happen to the show, they finally sign off at 1:00 in the

3 (25m 3s):
morning and stay strong my brothers and sisters in that a recovery and toodles I'm going to stop there call recorder you can stay online. All right, maybe don't have to say toodles. It's unnecessary. So hello and welcome to Dopey the podcast about drugs addiction and dumb shit and I am Dave.

1 (25m 32s):
This is the next episode of Dopey episode 143 a week later

3 (25m 38s):
for those who aren't on Dopey social media. The worst thing that could have ever happened happened and Chris relapsed and died and here I am alone at my dad's. One microphone plugged into the mixer

1 (25m 58s):
Chris overdose three days after episode 142 he'd been secretly using drugs again probably four weeks after that last episode. They recorded together Dave and Chris fought first Chris put the Show online without bleeping out Dave's last name. Dave was pissed. He wanted him fixed it but inadvertently inserted 10 minutes of silence into the middle of the episode which made chrismad so that Monday they're fighting over text message all Dave couldn't make sense of what was going on with Chris. He told Chris it was fine if he didn't want to do Dopey anymore. But Chris said no that wasn't it at all. He loved making Dopey they've believed him but meanwhile Chris was also fighting with Annie.

1 (26m 42s):
She left their apartment and went to stay with her parents. Chris was distraught crying. He asked Dave to call and check in on him. So Dave called him after midnight and told him he check in again in the morning went to bed. He woke up at 6 a.m. To a text from Annie. She sent it in the middle of the night asking Dave if he check on Chris, so at 6:30 Dave sent Chris a text message a minute later. Chris wrote back. I'm good as you like to hear I'm sleeping, but not totally good alive. Nothing to worry about we can talk later at 10:30 and he called Dave and told him that Chris was dead.

1 (27m 31s):
In the next few days Dave had to decide if he was going to do the show that week or ever again in the two-and-a-half years of making Dopey together. They'd never missed a show. They thought if he skipped this week, he'd be letting the Dopey Nation down. He'd be like your drug dealer not showing up and besides drug users should know if somebody dies from a drug overdose. So three days after Chris's death. He recorded that episode of Dopey and he calls Annie.

3 (27m 57s):
Hello. Hey, you're on you're on you're on the show. Hello everybody. How are you feeling?

1 (28m 12s):
They start to piece together. The mystery of Chris's death David completely misread his behavior. In retrospect, he was probably high on the last episode of Dopey. He was probably high when he made that weird phone call to his sponsor. He was probably even high on the Rd Laing episode David been operating off the wrong story The Chris wasn't interested in Dopey anymore. But Annie hadn't she had noticed the strange ways. Chris have been acting he kept taking the dog for walks. For instance when the dog didn't need to go out. He was staying up all night and sleeping during the day. She got suspicious he was using again. So she and Chris's sister arranged for surprise drug test on Monday a guy showed up at their apartment and did a saliva test.

1 (28m 58s):
That night and he told them she was going to stay with her parents. Chris left before her mom arrived to pick her up. Now. She realized it was because he couldn't wait any longer to get high and he slept at her parents house and went to work the next morning but soon after she went home to check on

3 (29m 14s):
Chris and I don't know if you want me to elaborate on how it was walking to the apartment. Yeah, you might know you might as well. Just here and The Vape is there the keys are there. So I look at the college's office on the cars and I look at the wedding. He's not there and then I'm going to bathroom I going to the bathroom. He's not there. That's why I start panicking and and I said welcome to the bedroom on the side of of the bed. I found him that I knew right away. He was dead. Everything after that is somewhat foggy.

3 (29m 55s):
I I knew we had our cat at home because he always gets dark and everywhere.

1 (29m 59s):
Narcan is a medication that can reverse an opioid overdose. You sprayed up a person's nose,

3 (30m 4s):
and I've got the Narcan but I knew it was too late. I just I just had to do it because people feel like the only thing I could do with it. Well at the

1 (30m 12s):
moment Chris had cocaine Xanax alcohol and Fentanyl in his system. He was 33 years old. Soon after a package arrived for him at their apartment. It was filled with drugs Percocet cocaine crack cocaine heroin, and he scoured the apartment in Chris's car. She found a bunch of drug paraphernalia needles some of which were used and clean pee he'd ordered online. Also, she found a small medicated patch that wasn't in any packaging. She sent a picture of it to Dave they couldn't be sure but Dave thought it was probably fentanyl. And he is a theory about Chris's relapse.

1 (30m 54s):
He had recently injured himself doing a Hai. Karate kick to try to impress her something in his leg popped. He was in terrible pain the doctor. He saw wasn't his regular doctor and she thinks Chris got painkillers fold himself into thinking he could just take them for the pain and stop there. If any theory is right. Then Chris started using again two weeks after Todd's death and was dead three weeks later.

3 (31m 17s):
I mean when when the news came I I got angry about it and then the next morning I woke up and You know, I felt the day between the last time I had spoken to him, you know what I mean? I felt the distance and I was like, it just felt like it was becoming real and then this morning I woke up and I could hear his voice in my head. Like we were like we were doing the show I could hear his voice and and then I kind of woke up and it was another day since I had spoken to him and it just it's like it's like liquid.

3 (32m 1s):
Becoming solid you know what I mean? And insert you move away from this liquid feeling to this cold solid truth that he is never going to come back and and it's

1 (32m 14s):
over. Dave hangs up with Annie. I know he's got to end this episode of Dopey without Chris for the first time.

3 (32m 22s):
We'll just end it the way we always end it and we'll say Stay strong Dopey nation, and I said I would never say this, but Chris is dead. So I'll say toodles for Chris and we love you. And everybody out there, please try to take care of yourself. All right.

1 (32m 53s):
Dave still makes Dopey by himself. Now. He's pulling him bigger guests like the comedian Marc Maron and the rapper Killer Mike, but it's not the same show. Dopey is a nation knew it is gone along with Chris. It's not a buddy comedy anymore. It's more of a straight interview show. There are fewer War Stories when there are the tone is different. Dave is different. There's this one moment in episode 1 42 the last episode Dave and Chris did together. But I keep thinking about Chris had just played a voice mail from a listener named Mike who tells a story about hiding his pee in the closet of his bedroom. So important why and afterwards they get into a conversation about whether it's okay to laugh at drug stories in the First episodes of Dopey.

1 (33m 38s):
Dave was a solid. Yes on that was the whole point of the show, but now they flip sides Chris says, yes, it's fine to laugh. Dave says this

3 (33m 48s):
I think it's funny but the fucked up thing and like it might it might it might be the end of Dopey right? Check this out. Like I just feel like like this guy. He's like everyone's laughing about everything they're doing and then they can just drop dead. But what's that? But what's the flip side morbid reality the whole time until he died? No, dude, I think it's funny. I think the urine is funny. I think that shit is hysterical but it's like it's like laughing on the train tracks and not seeing the fucking train coming. I don't think morbid reality is better. No, of course not I'm just saying it's sad, you know, we laugh on the train tracks, but we have the right to laugh on the train track.

3 (34m 30s):
It'd be much different if someone had never struggled and the truth is that when we were struggling the person who had tell a story that was terrifying and laugh at it might have a better chance at reaching us. I'm getting us to stop then the person who's morbid reality. I just feel responsible. And I think it's obviously because of Todd's death that like when we laugh at stuff, I just want to throw it out there that at any second Mike could be dead because Mike still using you know, and there's fentanyl everywhere and it's killing everybody. That's what I'm saying. How's the yes no, of course. Yeah.

1 (35m 8s):
Dave told me he always thought Dobby was good for him and Chris for their sobriety. He thought their creation would protect them. But it didn't Chris is gone Dopey. It turns out was its own War Story playing out week by week. So now on the show Dave's Mission has changed the drug stories aren't just in service of a laugh now. They're in service of an Urgent Message you could die. Todd died Chris died you could die.

3 (35m 43s):
Dan Achievers is one of the producers of our show since we first aired this story a year ago. The dhobi podcast is still going strong. They just hit their three millionth download and you can find it. Wherever you get your podcast coming up what happens when you go on the radio and make fun of a militant islamist group who also happen to run your town. Because you're in Syria that's in a minute Chicago public radio when a program continues. Support for This American Life comes from Capital One. Capital One Wants To Build a Better Bank one that feels and acts nothing like a typical bank. So they're reimagining banking. They offer one of the nation's best savings rates and accounts with no fees or minimums that can be open from anywhere in five minutes.

3 (36m 30s):
That's banking reimagined Capital One. What's in your wallet Capital One and a Support for This American Life comes from Royal Caribbean with Royal Caribbean you're invited to do more than just dip your toes in the water snorkel with whale sharks near Cozumel soar above the Bahamas and a helium balloon of Perfect Day Island discover new Delicacies at award-winning restaurants and soak in the warm Caribbean Sun. You can do all this and more on one Cruise vacation come seek the Royal Caribbean ships registered in the Bahamas. To smirk life Myra glass each week in a program. Of course, we choose the theme bring you different kinds of stories on that theme Today Show wartime radio people in battlefields of one kind or another using very a DIY Grassroots level radio or podcasting to try to make sense of what is happening around them.

3 (37m 25s):
We've arrived at two of our program back to good morning Katherine Bell. So back in my 20s. I was a volunteer reporter at the community radio station in Washington, DC. P FW a great station that really did reflect the community DC was 2/3 African-American back then and and also had immigrants from all over the world and the most popular show in the station. I remember was the Bama our it was a guy named Jerry Washington who would play songs and talked a lot about his knees. There were Caribbean and Central American shows. There was a show made by Iranians who missed the former Shah of Iran and then another show with Iranians who hated the former Shah of Iran.

3 (38m 5s):
There was a call in Atry show listeners who Colin and read their own poems and it was daily. This was a daily call in poetry show that in my memory. Anyway, never seem to have any kind of trouble getting callers. That's Community radio. But this next story is about somebody setting up a station like that a community station only they're doing it in a war zone in Syria and a small town called calf ran Bell that's confined belt spelled with a K in the Northwest part of the country. Not far from the Turkish border. Rural Town surrounded by olive trees and fig trees 30,000 people living there. When we first broadcast this episode a year ago back then it had been almost eight years.

3 (38m 47s):
The convertible was in a kind of No Man's Land. We're different factions fought militant Islam is had taken charge of the town. Reporter Dana balut heard about the station years before she ever listen to it.

1 (39m 0s):
I crossed paths with the founder of the station back when I was covering the war in Syria for the Wall Street Journal. His name is rad-brad fattest. He lives in caftan been we never met in person. I was based across the border in Lebanon because American Press was mostly not allowed in Syria. But when the regime struck a town near caftan bill or Isis was advancing and I needed to know the details from the ground me and my colleagues would pull out our Ian spreadsheet of contacts and go through them Rapids was one of those names I'd Skype him to confirm a death count or verify a location then move on rottens was an activist before the radio station. He was sort of famous for these banners these homemade signs written in big black letters on white sheets.

1 (39m 44s):
He would bring them to protests post pictures of them on Facebook and Twitter. I always saw them in my feeds. They were witty like this one from Thanksgiving holiday. Does not celebrates Black Friday special offer, whoever wherever you are bring your enemy and come to fight in Syria for free limited time offer. One of the most viral of these was after Caitlyn Jenner announce her new name Caitlin spelled with a c and not a k like the other women's names in her family rides gave her this shout out Kaitlyn. He writes spelling it with a see we would write caftan bill with a see if it meant like you we could be free.

1 (40m 25s):
I knew rides had his own radio station radio fresh though. I never turned in back then but around Thanksgiving last year. I heard the rotted had been killed. It hit me harder than I expected saddened by the news I listened for the first time you can stream radio fresh on Soundcloud. There's hours and hours of programming listening through was like reliving the war from the inside seeing it in a totally different way from deep in the The small town it was incredibly alive hyperlocal sometimes utterly ordinary people complaining about their neighbors, but other times so radical I couldn't believe they got away with it.

1 (41m 6s):
Here's an example of that. One of the first things I heard this satire program called Co Eliza, he's backstage with the president where an actor impersonating president Bashar al-assad's has made up conversations with an officer in his army.

3 (41m 20s):
Well not here for sure. If Mei Li. Now I'm Yadi. Well, like an Overland Alina anime Eve Jaden Boehner.

1 (41m 31s):
That's the actor making fun of the president's lisp, which is very pronounced. He's pretty spot-on.

3 (41m 36s):
Well, we've established that I

1 (41m 41s):
was shocked when I first heard this impression. My knee-jerk reaction was oh my God, how did you not go to jail for this because in the past that's what would have happened before listening to radio fresh. I had literally heard of to other places. Has in the whole Arab world were anyone had tried to do political satire. One was Lebanon where I'm from and the other Egypt where for a while till the government random out of the country. They had their own version of Jon Stewart. And now there were these guys out of a small town in northern Syria it completely blew my mind. I talked to a bunch of rides friends and caftan bin.

1 (42m 22s):
They told me he was always a rebel before the uprising. Against the Syrian regime he would curse the president in a way. No one else dared. He mocks religious figures to his cousin told me this always made people super nervous everyone in town knew him as the guy who got kicked out of med school grads was a Burly guy in his mid-40s clean-shaven warm eyes mischievous face. He was sharp taught himself English ran a thriving small business. One of his best friends had the Abdullah told me how rad started the radio station

3 (42m 52s):
be generous of Saddam a few caveats, you know mosques. They have loudspeakers.

1 (42m 57s):
These are the speakers for the call to prayer five times a day at one point early in the war the Syrian military showed up and caftan Bill and started shooting protesters Rod wanted to get those soldiers to defect so he loaded up a bunch of recordings on a USB stick and had some friends at the mosque blast them over those speakers anti-regime slogans like

3 (43m 17s):
Nizam you tackle a coon Museum Amsterdam Coon. The regime is tricking you regime is using you regime is killing your family. There are no terrorists here. Everybody is civilian here for home Bella shots occur throughout the not a Blazer and ideas are from here and ride was like why am I limiting myself to the mosque only why don't I start a radio station where I could to just talk to people when you

1 (43m 41s):
so shortly after when Rod found himself meeting with International groups including the US state department. He pitched. His idea for a radio station. There are always opportunities in war and this one would be an unusual chance to push back on the rules make fun of people. They could have never made fun of before an opportunity to blast out ideas like free speech and democracy to whoever tuned into ninety Point ofm.

3 (44m 6s):
Not the only if you help but you need to remember name is like fresh be directed in a said say mister loom bracelet how to make a typical Farm Bill a lot of salafi.

1 (44m 15s):
This is a clip from the station's first few weeks on air. August 2013 the radio fresh was based out of an old government building and Catherine been the studio was done up with shiny purple curtains for soundproofing. There was an ashtray on the table and lots of smoking while they were on the mic the host who's talking about how to form neighborhood councils as a thick local accent one of my favorite things about radio fresh. It sounds rural slangy homegrown. Well, I was trying and by the station from the very first clip, I heard the people it was actually made for the citizens of Captain Bill many of them were against it in the beginning here's ratted himself on the second anniversary of radio fresh.

1 (44m 60s):
One of the rare times. He actually went on air

3 (45m 3s):
will be there yet can fix air hockey and no load gave in the Missouri legislature overrode. You can after all bacteria.

1 (45m 18s):
In the beginning there was a lot of talk about how the money for the radio would have been better spent on aid for families in need people were hungry. They don't have clean water or electricity. It seemed extravagance and frivolous to spend money on a radio show, but pretty early on the station came up with a program that became indispensable throughout the village. It was called The Observatory radio fresh put 24/7 Watchman and tall buildings to keep an eye out for airstrikes as soon as they saw one. They radioed in to the station. Which would interrupt programming on say the nutritional benefits of

3 (45m 50s):
lettuce and then Monticello we brought in a level at your home

1 (45m 59s):
with an air raid siren.

3 (46m 4s):
Upside best pianos at Latvia jerky from beloved or be Shackled are

1 (46m 8s):
there saying planes are circling over caftan bed rattles response to the doubters was the radio isn't frivolous. It's about saving lives

3 (46m 17s):
and their bodies is a good look. Hello, Raju on cousin he

1 (46m 22s):
is saying if these are strike warning saves even one life that would be worth the whole cost of the station. Before the observatory people used to jerry-rig their own version of this alert system buying a walkie-talkie and eavesdropping on the regimes frequencies. It was expensive over $100 and parents hated how much the regime thugs would swear and cuss on the frequency. They didn't like that the kids overheard The Observatory was a clean version for the cost of a basic radio $5 the Airaid warnings. They were just one of a slew of soup. Practical you live in a war zone and here's how to survive kind of programs.

1 (47m 5s):
There's a medical show that teaches people how to administer first aid that show has episodes on chemical burns meningitis and kids how to treat head

3 (47m 14s):
injuries and Elizabeth who do good kisser Vol Jang drama or under the horn as Eve

1 (47m 19s):
here the hostess saying when you think your skull is broken and when you see blood or a clear fluid coming from your ears or nose get medical help immediately radio fresh had language learning programs in case you have to flee the country and that how to put daily but

3 (47m 34s):
a bad idea and a half they'll eat Jay Jay.

1 (47m 42s):
Is there doing the alphabet in this episode of Teach Me Turkish more than 3.5 million Syrian refugees have landed in Turkey the last eight years. They also taught French English and what I love about these programs is how the people teaching the language are actually not at all fluent in the language. They're teaching You can hear how hard they're trying

3 (48m 3s):
dear listeners. Welcome to the elephants episode of teach me English

1 (48m 9s):
everyone. I talked to about radio fresh brought up. This one program called the complaints show. It was radio freshers version of a call-in show, except they couldn't actually have a call-in show because there is Jim had cut off all the phone lines. So they put up a bunch of little black boxes with a radio fresh sticker on them all around town people would drop in slips of paper with their answers to quiz shows their ments and complaints the host would choose one complaint each week to talk

3 (48m 34s):
about having become fever name is Shakira

1 (48m 40s):
often. It's very specific stuff at one point early on a faction set up shop inside a school building using it as a police station parents were worried about sending their kids to school in a building shared with criminals and thieves plus the police station made the school an easy target for the regime parents told the rebels their concerns, but nothing happens, so they turn to radio.

3 (49m 1s):
Fresh, is that the shock women martyr May mean a helmet how far Charlotte? Oh Moser the FEMA dresser most volatile Veneto Albanian

1 (49m 16s):
today. We have a complaint that there is a police station in the same building as a school and that's the broadcaster says defies logic again. Here's rottens friend Hadi

3 (49m 27s):
consumer will module Dean sobbing macaroon for CML hulka. When people inside the police station heard a piece on the radio, they came right away to us and they told us we're willing to leave the school, please tell the families were going to leave the place. We don't want any trouble against us and they did the emptied the police station from all the militants that were

1 (49m 48s):
there people complained about the price and quality of their bread. Someone brought up their neighbor using a hole in the front yard as a bathroom while his actual bathroom was broken the neighbor heard the episode and fixed his toilet. When I first heard the complaints show at felt pretty familiar. We had a similar program in Lebanon. Although not quite a small town e as the neighbors toilet, but listening hour after hour would I realize was that this complaints show was doing something besides solving practical local problems. It was also spreading a revolutionary idea that you could voice your concerns and hold people accountable and get results the guys at the station confirmed.

1 (50m 28s):
This was at its original mission for the show this In a place where the rules were so recently non-negotiable and you just have to keep your head down and deal with it. The complaints show was just one of the many programs debates kids shows series on Islam doing this kind of work. One problem people had with a station from the beginning was that it was funded by the Americans which in the middle of a war where the US was not being particularly helpful was not a good look. It's true. Almost all the money for the station has come from the US state Department's it's around $40,000 a month these days which covers the salaries of 53 people.

1 (51m 15s):
It's a pretty big operation when listeners accused the station of being a mouthpiece for the Americans. Brad was happy to address it head-on this Him on the

3 (51m 25s):
air let the tear was it. Hello lab is Mario Samia Samia shall because American I will be double Americano be damaged nozzle Anarchy.

1 (51m 35s):
He says the response is very simple. Have you heard anything on radio fresh that sounds like we're supporting the Americans. We're always trying to prod them on the radio with our banners. We have opinions about them and we don't hide them rat is vision of democracy meant everyone in Katherine Bell had an equal say in what was happening including Leading women he wanted their voices on the radio too. Although that was such a daring idea for Katherine Bell even his friends had he wondered whether it was possible it

3 (52m 3s):
can look he's I was like how all our demon Jeep most of all that easy to find women. We hired them we trained

1 (52m 9s):
him. This was bald because almost no women in the village worked outside the home. They took care of the kids and the homes that was it and it was bold because of who was running a friend bill at the time ratted was always offending the local leaders including just about Everyone who was in charge of Catherine bill over the last eight years First the free Syrian Army was offended by a banner so they came to the radio station and kidnapped two guys next Isis attacked the station in 2013 a couple weeks later. They shot rods multiple times almost killing him, but when rotted was deciding to put women on the air in 2015 two years after radio fresh had started Katherine Bell was run by a new extremist islamist group nusra Al qaeda's branch.

1 (52m 54s):
In Syria rotted knew they wouldn't like this but he went for it. Anyway, pretty much cause of Allah who is introducing the afternoon newscast. She is now the director of the women's division of radio fresh. She talked to me from the woman's office over Skype another epidemic and betrayal and know it smells salty out in the corner. Hosea I never imagined that I would hear my own voice or that I would be reporter never hippo was a young newlywed who had just moved to town when she heard that radio fresh was recruiting women to go on air.

1 (53m 38s):
She'd been listening to the radio and was curious what it was like to make it. So she along with 20 other women went to the first training they did icebreakers spent three days on voice technique mom. Is it that he had no one thought that a column a few times. I don't know if you know this. This one but when you put your pen in your mouth, this is a way to open up your voice. I did not know this one. Neither did most of the people at this American life and how to be as a presenter and how to take breaths from your belly HIPAA passed the training and began working at the station made news shows programs about women's rights interviews with local women who had lost their husbands in the war by the time rods put Heba and the other women on air in 2015 the islamists in charge of Captain been nice.

1 (54m 25s):
Already hated radio fresh the station poked fun at them and all sorts of ways for being illiterate hypocritical one satire depicted the religious police rushing people to the mosque without actually understanding the rules of prayer nasara assigned people to listen to radio fresh and shifts. They issued regular warnings and threats to the station whenever they heard something they didn't like now radio fresh got a lot of warnings for having women on are Nostra considered their voices shameful a form of nakedness. Finally in January 2016. Minnesota had had enough they burst in one morning to shut the station down broke down the door faces covered carrying machine guns.

1 (55m 6s):
They took everything laptops. The transmitter had these hookah flash drives him on the other women watched the nasara guys ransack the main station from another building the woman's office just up the hill B'Elanna militia Burger assault B&E and we looked at the window when we heard a lot of noise. So as girls we Started Gathering everything in hiding it because we said, you know, they were going to come to us next they quickly rearrange the office to make it look more like a home for somehow didn't pay your kids beds and in Jessica's bed. So we were preparing lies, you know, just in case they came in they started questioning us and you know, we were going to say like, oh, we're just girls here hanging out at her house and we're just having breakfast together morning coffee or met a best, but they just took the stuff and they left they didn't even come to us.

1 (55m 58s):
Mr. Blindfolded rotted and took him to the infamous Allah al-kitab prison. They left two armed men at the station to keep anyone from coming in everyday Heba would finish her housework and get dressed to go in for her usual shift, but there wasn't anywhere to go anymore people started spreading rumors that radio fresh was over. Days passed most of finally reached an agreement with radio fresh they'd let red go and return the equipment under a few conditions first that the radio station wouldn't Play music Here's right at talking about the agreement in English actually in an interview with the CBC

3 (56m 35s):
the started to say it's forbidden because it's Haram and Islamic Sharia law in their opinion. It's

1 (56m 42s):
Haram Haram sinful. No, Sarah had been on rats case about playing music for a While his cheerfully defiant

3 (56m 49s):
it was like two years asking me to stop playing music, but I refused finally because the attached the registration more than three times and kidnap me like three

1 (57m 3s):
times kidnapped me like three times. He's

3 (57m 5s):
saying then I stopped playing the music but I started to play sarcastic thing instead of the like animal sounds like she like birds frogs dogs chicken and

1 (57m 21s):
everything. Animal sounds radio fresh replace the jingles leading into each segment with animal noises. There was a rooster in the

3 (57m 32s):
morning. So we'll have another has a beautiful

1 (57m 38s):
birds during the day and after dark, of

3 (57m 42s):
course. crickets

1 (57m 49s):
The CBC interviewer asks Rod what's the point of that? Why are you doing that

3 (57m 54s):
when the people hear animal voices? They will ask what's going on with her new fresh and the answer will be the Islamic armed groups band the music from Radio fish because it's Haram. I want them to just to think to use their minds. Is it really her? Oh, you can move the mines. You can move the ideas.

1 (58m 20s):
Mr. Has other big demand was for radio fresh to take women off. The air completely rods had a creative fix for this one, too. Again, here's HIPAA, but Island owl steam out. If I thought we were having a meeting and he came and he told us that they wanted to transform our voices. You know, now we were gonna use something to change our voices from female voices to male and that you wouldn't be able able to tell that it was a female in the first place.

3 (58m 49s):
So don't wanna come on.

1 (58m 56s):
So when we first heard what our voices sounded like we were laughing and it was so strange because we were like really this is like what people are going to listen to but after a while it just became normal and it literally got to the point where I could tell you which girl was which voice but these days have I just Was annoyed at the voice and because the voice is so hard to listen to radio fresh reduce. How long women speak on the air to a fraction of what it was? By this past fall the Assad regime had retaken swaths of the country and in many other places including Katherine Bell extremists.

1 (59m 40s):
Like no Sarah were gaining power people like rat AIDS people who didn't want a said or the extremists they barely held any ground and finally around Thanksgiving Rod was assassinated. I read the news in a tweet and later heard the whole story. He was in a car with two colleagues from the Your station it was around noon A van pulled up next to them and shot and killed ratted and his friends have mu Junaid then drove off. While most never claimed responsibility for the assassination the whole town blame them Everyone I knew who had reported on Syria was talking about rotted that day posting pictures of him riding that his death was the end of the Syrian Revolution because ra is was one of a handful of people in Syria who was still living by the principles of the Revolution.

1 (1h 0m 28s):
He was still talking about nonviolent resistance and democracy civil society and freedom rotted was there from the very first protests in Syria and stuck by his principles while so many others either died or fell off the train now, he too was gone. Have I got the news over WhatsApp? So it was worth of you about to enjoy this dish had honey member hornuts hard. She evident at that point. I just wasn't aware of anything anymore. I never thought that moment was going to come Meagan McLaren had them destroyed be moved forgetting a lot whole head of it. All I never imagined that someone like that. I could die. Like know he would be he would be one of the ones that stayed.

1 (1h 1m 15s):
The funeral lasted three days hundreds of people came there were programs on radio fresh remembering rods and her moods their childhoods talking to their friends chatting about their

3 (1h 1m 26s):
legacy.

1 (1h 1m 37s):
After ads death, you can still hear glimpses of radio freshest classic dark humor. They continue to make fun of the president and the local factions. Here's a radio drama about a local guy partitioning his house and Katherine Bell to host refugees. But these refugees aren't displaced Syrian women and children. It turns out no he wants to host French people fleeing their own country after the yellow vests protests and particular beautiful French women

3 (1h 2m 11s):
Mario Suzie. Oh Emily is not necessary

1 (1h 2m 16s):
Mary Sonia Emily sleeping in the streets not on my watch. I found the episode hilarious a sign that rotted Spirits was well and alive at Radio fresh. I wondered if rats friend had he felt the same way. Do you still feel that? Do you still feel that at the radio station?

3 (1h 2m 39s):
Not at all? Not at all. I don't think things would be the same again. I mean despite all my attempts mean we're trying to manufacture a laugh, but our hearts are not the same. My buddy convention in besides. I don't be pessimistic but this is the

1 (1h 2m 55s):
truth. There's a talk that rat gave two years ago at the Oslo Freedom Forum

3 (1h 3m 2s):
this little furries moodier Rodeo

1 (1h 3m 5s):
fresh. He opens with footage of the aftermath of a bombing describing the smell of burned bodies of guns. The audience is wrapped and rat this gripping, but he also looks very tired of trying to convince these westerners and peaceful Norway to care about the more than 500 thousand syrians who have died in this conflict and the millions that remain And yet there he is. He hadn't given

3 (1h 3m 30s):
up more legible manzara that had battle mode will kharab with the mark of the table of tishri family.

1 (1h 3m 40s):
He and his speech saying there is nothing prettier than a flower that defies death chaos and destruction and instead blooms and radiates. Hope yeah, just like radio fresh.

3 (1h 4m 2s):
Daniel boulud she's a filmmaker and a producer at the podcast Kernan cultures that screening with a K Kernan cultures which runs stories like this one from the Middle East in the oceans were first broadcast this story the news from calf on bail is not good Syrian president Bashar al-assad intensified bombing of the last remaining rebel-held areas of that country. And if Rambo went from 30,000 inhabitants to only about a hundred last month, the former headquarters radio fresh were bombed to the ground. There's nothing left. Nobody was killed because they'd all fled months before HIPAA. The director of the women's division of radio fresh is living in a refugee camp on the Turkish border hot. He's living in Turkey their travels back to Syria often to report because radio fresh is still on the air.

3 (1h 4m 47s):
It's run from small Secret Studios in various people's homes in Northern Syria. You can still listen to their daily life feed online and buy new episodes. That's all on SoundCloud. I don't know where I'm going now that I hope the wind that's blowing helps me

1 (1h 5m 10s):
can

3 (1h 5m 14s):
turn on your

1 (1h 5m 15s):
radio. Oh baby.

3 (1h 5m 18s):
Listen to my song

1 (1h 5m 22s):
on your night light.

3 (1h 5m 28s):
But program was produced today by Sean Cole the people who put a show together includes Ella Baker day in the chip is Aviva to kornfeld Jarrett for Damien grave Michelle Harris Seth Rollins doing Nelson Catherine. Raimondo. Naughty Raymond, Christopher sutala, my Tierney Julie would occur and Diane were who are managing editors for today's show Susan Burton and David kestenbaum additional help on the rebound from Jessica Lawson. Hop special. Thanks today to our interpreters. Saffy shamoon, Baraka teary and honey. How asli also thanks to dated after AJ man. Hopera Maya salivates. Andrewy Glenn Danzig Lancet Paul Wilson. The over manage a single video huge signal. Dr. Brian Goldman Rami Ferris Dallas illume up to war with albacore. John Yaeger Isom. Khatib Raja Abdul Rahim and blueprint post-production our website This American Life dot-org we can listen to our Archive of almost seven hundred episodes for absolutely free This American Life has delivered a public radio stations by PRX the public radio exchange support for This American Life comes from Lagunitas Brewing Company feeling stories and songs Lagunitas.

3 (1h 6m 28s):
I EPI and of course commits give me the pub in public radio find out more one shoe at Lagunitas.com. Thanks as always to our programs co-founder. Mr. Troy mallick to you know last weekend, you know, I was just up all night talking in his kitchen morning comes his wife came downstairs and I don't know Tori panicked. He just

1 (1h 6m 48s):
blurted. Oh, we just girls here hanging out. We're just having breakfast together morning coffee or met a

3 (1h 6m 54s):
I'm Ira Glass back next week with more stories of the Samara. Life listen to

1 (1h 7m 7s):
turn on your night light.

3 (1h 7m 32s):
Next week on the podcast of This American Life. How do you feel looking at it? It scares me a little bit. Well my coworker David cast mom showed me the universe splitter app. I'll be honest. I thought it was BS an app that fires of photon and creates an alternate universe. But David does have a PhD in physics, like I know it's kind of silly but it also kind of freaks me out. Like what if it's true, you literally just put your finger right up to the button and pulled it away and fear. All right, I guess.