2 (1s):
Support for This American Life comes from Capital One Capital one's banking app lets you manage your money anytime anywhere Capital One. This is banking reimagined. What's in your wallet Capital One and a few years ago Jennifer go measure was watching this PBS cooking show and the chef David Chang started talking about MSG monosodium glutamate, of course, lots of people believe MSG is bad for you cause you headaches food hangover that idea has been around for decades. I grew up hearing this maybe you did too. But Jennifer knows this is a myth. In fact, very next segment on the show is science and food writer Howard McGhee saying just

4 (40s):
that and he just had this sort of throwaway line that yeah this this myth of MSG being harmful. Can we Trace back to one letter in the New England Journal of

2 (49s):
Medicine a letter to the editor in the New England Journal of

4 (54s):
Medicine? And I was just sort of sitting there going huh? One letter. It was like, oh, it's an origin story.

2 (1m 1s):
It's time Jennifer was a PhD student very interested in the way people talk about race and asian-americans.

4 (1m 6s):
So to hear that there was once this

2 (1m 7s):
letter but let Americans to freak out about the dangers of an ingredient commonly used in Chinese food ingredient. That was later proven totally harmless. Jennifer wanted to see that letter so she went to the stacks found this old journal from the 60s. There was a letter to the editor from dr. Titled Chinese restaurant syndrome

4 (1m 29s):
the letter reads for several years since I have been in this country. I have experienced a strange syndrome whenever I have eaten out in a Chinese restaurant the syndrome which usually begins 15 to 20 minutes after I have eaten the first dish last for about two hours without any hangover effect. The most prominent symptoms are numbness at the back of the neck

2 (1m 48s):
here bunch of the symptoms that he's observed many ways through the possible causes for this strange numbness and eliminate them one by one soy sauce. No cooking wine. No, then it gets to the sentence. It's going to live on for a half century quote others have suggested that it may be caused by the - sodium glutamate seasoning used to a great extent for seasoning in Chinese restaurants.

4 (2m 11s):
And that one line is what spawned his entire. Myth letter is signed. ho man Kwok MD

2 (2m 22s):
So the first thing she did was look up dr. Clock to get the whole story from him, which he learned was that clock has been a researcher and a pediatrician in Maryland. He's dead. She ran into bicchieri 2014. So instead she traced the history of how this letter blew up led to all these other things by reading subsequent issues in the New England Journal of Medicine and newspapers from the time and other documents. She wrote a paper published it in an academic journal in 2017. And then after that she gets his voice mail. Her work number. She's professor at Colgate University. Yes. Good afternoon. My name is dr. Howard Steel on a Colgate Alum fact. I'm the oldest surviving trustee.

2 (3m 4s):
That's Colgate them in their God and love it at any

4 (3m 9s):
rate. And at first I'm just like am I in trouble if you know, why is that? Why is a board member calling me what's going on?

2 (3m 16s):
I have some information perhaps you might like to

4 (3m 19s):
hear and then he sort of pauses and he says As

2 (3m 22s):
I am the author of whole man quack.

4 (3m 27s):
I am the author of ho man Kwok. My brain just sort of goes what

2 (3m 35s):
and I have a lot to say about it. I just just surfaced.

4 (3m 39s):
I'm listening to the voice mail in my living room and my jaws just dropping because up until then I had completely I had operated under the assumption that dr. Ho man clock was a Chinese American researcher and I all of a sudden I don't know what to believe.

2 (3m 56s):
It could be she makes sense because remember there was a Doctor Robert home and Quoc. The one is obituaries. Add so who is this guy on the phone? Well, I have a phone. I asked you that phone all the time because I store the little finicky to electrified my left chest leaving some joke about how he keeps his phone in his pocket right by the thing that electrifies his pacemaker,

4 (4m 20s):
but when the phone rings my

2 (4m 22s):
heart stops, I answered immediately at any rate. It would be a pleasure to hear you hanging up now. Have a nice evening. Bye. Okay, what right this message is just the beginning the very odd beginning of a story that we going to continue in just a minute. You will hear more from the mysterious. Dr. Steele because this letter to the editor. I don't know. Is it possible that this is the most impactful letter to the editor in the history of letters to the editor a launch an entire MSG scare the lasted for decades even today forty-two percent of all Americans think that it's bad for you.

2 (5m 2s):
It's not since the 90s. The FDA has listed MSG is perfectly safe for its intended use like vinegar salt pepper. Today on our show. We have three stories like this one with people throw words out into the world. They take on a totally unexpected life of their own and in all these stories the words wreak havoc for years. Of course, we've all seen this happen in presidential politics today. We have more modest examples of it happening. WBEZ Chicago This American Life. I'm Ira Glass stay with us.

2 (5m 50s):
Guan humor is not the best medicine. Okay, so where we left off it was the voice mail and Jennifer will measures phone from this retired surgeon where he says, okay. I'm the guy I made up a fake name. I wrote a letter and it said off 50 years of completely needless panic over MSG. Call me. Billy Sullivan explains what happened next

4 (6m 13s):
when Howard steel left that voicemail for Jennifer La mejor she calls him back right away get the whole story from him. She doesn't record it though and a few months later. Dr. Howard's deal dies. But before he died the Colgate alumni magazine remember Jennifer teaches at Colgate Howard's on their board. They did a couple interviews with him that they did record.

2 (6m 35s):
Okay. Great Howard. I'm fine. Thanks. How are you?

4 (6m 40s):
That's Michael Blanding the journalist who did the interviews. He's the one you can hear typing during this call.

3 (6m 45s):
First take you back to the beginning was a dear dear friend of mine and I were recovering from a Chinese meal

2 (6m 54s):
with an example once a week and we were perfectly happy

4 (6m 58s):
husband bill was adopted to they'd eat drink and talk shop and they got to talking about being published in medical

2 (7m 5s):
journals. number one

4 (7m 16s):
Howard's friend was a doctor of internal medicine, which he was constantly reminding Howard is a much smarter breed of doctor.

3 (7m 23s):
He told me that it was impossible for someone as stupid as an orthopedic surgeon, which I was to write an article that could be published in something as magnificent as a New England medical journal. That was a threat and he was willing to make a

2 (7m 39s):
bet

4 (7m 44s):
Filbert Howard $10 that he couldn't get published there. It's one of the most prestigious medical journals in the world which Howard took as a challenge

3 (7m 52s):
when I decide will all write a little article and send it over there. So I went home and I just sat down and wrote a letter to the editor of the Journal of Medicine in New England and I didn't sign with my name, but I signed it home and Croc ho When word man1 work waqt, aw, okay figuring that someone when they got the swelling would realize it what that worry was a breakdown of not a nice word. We used to use all the time when someone was a jerk. We call him a human crock of you-know-what

4 (8m 33s):
human Croc Helman karak. I know cringy an offensive pond on a Chinese name a white guy playing an Asian for laughs. Keep in mind this is the 60s. He said he made up the name of dr. Clark's

2 (8m 47s):
Research Institute and his title to

4 (8m 50s):
he said the Chinese food wasn't the point of it except for that. They were at a Chinese restaurant eating and drinking a little too much the night. They made the BET and Howard won that bet. Yes. It wasn't an article. It was a letter but it was printed in the journal good enough for them. Here's Michael Blanding the reporter who interviewed Howard.

2 (9m 10s):
But once he saw it, once the letter was published. He was sort of mildly

4 (9m 13s):
horrified. So he was horrified efforts. He wasn't happy that he won the bet it's hard to tell, you know, it seemed like an he would sort of go back and forth between being proud of the fact that he was able to achieve this being published in this journal and and sort of

2 (9m 27s):
being distressed by the fact that it actually made it into print

3 (9m 31s):
as soon as it came out. I called the the journal editor and came to visit. It's a bobcat. I you know, I it was all fake. It was all made up and he hung up the phone on me. He wouldn't talk any further because the jackass so I kept calling and finally apparently he gave a message to a fool girl in the office that if anybody my Howard called hang up, so I yeah, I actually four years I try to call them and tell them that the whole thing was a hoax that it was not true that I had know anything about Chinese particularly Chinese. What's the court Chinese restaurants and I never saw anybody that didn't know what the hell I'm talking about.

4 (10m 15s):
So that's how weird story and then this joke of has snowballed after the letter was published other doctors wrote in some of the making jokes about this Chinese restaurant syndrome, but also often recounting their own experiences and symptoms. The New York Times notice has 10 letters from doctors publishes an article remember no scientific studies. At this point just letters some of them jokes. The headline was Chinese restaurant syndrome puzzles doctors the news spread from there under headlines like Kwok squeeze and Chinese Chow numbs some here's Jennifer the professor who traced the history. I mean the titles were very very offensive.

4 (11m 2s):
Let's see. Let me see if I can find the one from the Chicago Tribune. Moon in broken English. The headline is Chinese food make you crazy. MSG is number one suspect. Wow Chinese food make you crazy. I can't believe that was a headline. Yeah, there's like em, they were all reacting to something. That wasn't even real. Hmm. It was all projection. To this day. Lots of Chinese restaurants post. No MST signs in their windows and printed on their menus

3 (11m 35s):
everybody in a Chinese restaurant syndrome and it's a lie. It's a big FIB is a fit the Shanley.

2 (11m 52s):
Howard lots of people this story over the years he told groups of other doctors. He told

4 (11m 57s):
Jennifer who believed him. She alerted the alumni magazine who recorded those interviews, they pitched the story to us and we were like 96 year old man confesses to writing a prank letter the drove the nation's the decades-long scare about a toxin does not actually toxic he's dead, but you have recordings or in But as we and Michael the reporter started looking into this more carefully, there were a few things that were puzzling for one the name of the research institute Howard said he invented the national biomedical research Foundation Michael discovered. It was a real place and the real dr. Quack had worked there kind of a coincidence if Howard made up the name, like he said he did it also seemed weird if the journal published the fake letter with dr.

4 (12m 43s):
Cox name and institution on it, and it was quoted in over a hundred. Hundred newspapers naming him and the letter it seemed weird that the real Doctor clock never set the record straight never post a letter complaining in the New England Journal of Medicine or in any of those newspapers. Also Howard said he tried to get the journal to retract it that he called and the editor wouldn't take his calls. We reached out to the New England Journal of Medicine. They declined to comment but it seems strange to us on the face of it Howard became a highly acclaimed surgeon. He invented important medical procedures. It seems like for sure you could have gotten the attention of someone at the journal.

4 (13m 29s):
It's hard to verify what really happened because everyone involved in this is dead Howard is dead the friend he made the bet with his dead the real dr. Clock is said but dr. Clock has kids we called them and talk to his family. We also spoke to one of his colleagues at the Research Foundation and the son of his boss there. They all said yes, dr. Robert home and clock did write the letter. His daughter said he was proud of it that he was a concern doctor in a curious scientist who dolphin pose questions, like this wasn't a joke at all. The thought that Howard was going around telling the story for years. It creeped her out a little And when you read the original letter, there are details that seem more likely to come from her father then from Howard like when he says he moved to the US which the real dr.

4 (14m 19s):
Clock did and how he's very specific the syndrome happens with Northern Chinese food in the 60s how many white guys in Philadelphia would have made that distinction. Also home on Kwok is an actual Cantonese name. What are the odds that Howard steel through together random Chinese sounding syllables to arrive at that. I called up Jennifer the professor that Howard steel had left the voicemail for I finally reached the Kwok family. Okay, and they told me something they say that their father did write the letter. What? Yeah, they say that he wrote it and there's

3 (15m 0s):
certain. Wow. Okay.

4 (15m 7s):
What do you think of that?

3 (15m 11s):
I honestly have no idea.

2 (15m 19s):
I just like I

4 (15m 20s):
cannot believe that. Dr. Steele made this up

3 (15m 24s):
right now. I'm like are there two were there two letters like did they bust happened? Dude? Like they happen to write about MSU at the same time in like one got printed and like one person that I was edited. Like I don't even know I mean I can't really like I mean the timing of this I wish I was starting to feel so alive. I mean for many reasons, obviously

4 (15m 48s):
there were two options. Neither of them good someone has been telling a story that's not true for 50 years one of these two men both of whom were by all accounts brilliant, upstanding pillars of their communities either Howard was fessing up to something. He totally did not do claiming responsibility for the whole. A mess when actually he had nothing to do with it or Howard was telling the truth. And dr. Robert Holman Kwok beloved pediatrician and researcher had seen this letter to the editor in the journal with his name on it that he didn't write was delighted with his good fortune and rolled with it for 50 years.

4 (16m 29s):
I'd one person left to call Howard steals daughter Anna. She grew up hearing this story. I told you everything I just told

3 (16m 36s):
you. Okay, that's that is a shock

4 (16m 41s):
but actually not that big a shock. It took her about two seconds to make sense of all this she believed the clock's not her father.

3 (16m 50s):
No, I don't think anybody who knew him and loved him would be would be surprised. It's just one one more thing in the life of my

4 (17m 1s):
dad this she said this is exactly the kind of thing. He loved to do he liked to prank people and he sold lots of big stories about himself many true and some not you can never totally believed him and never quite not believe him. In fact, she says it helped explain this other thing that even though her father supposedly won the BET his buddy never paid him

3 (17m 25s):
the fact that that was never settled up is is is of suspect that maybe it was a wink wink between them both

4 (17m 34s):
well so now knowing all this do you feel convinced that he didn't write the

3 (17m 38s):
letter it seems to point in that direction doesn't it I mean if I thought we were dealing with you know too straight-laced Straight Arrow no-nonsense positions I might be arguing a stronger position but knowing these two clowns I'm not sure I can there's not much I can say

4 (18m 5s):
So it seems like Howard didn't write the fake prank letter that caused Decades of chaos. His prank was that he said he had written the letter he was claiming credit for chaos. He didn't create it was complicated to even think about oh my God. That's too funny. All right. Well here we are first the world believes MSG was bad for you and it wasn't and now we nearly believed the second piece of fake news that it all started with Howard. Here's where Anna came down loving her father and his best friend.

4 (18m 49s):
But also what the hell I wish I could

3 (18m 54s):
give them both a piece of my mind. I'm not angry, but I just want to say you owe everybody huge apology what is wrong with you? And he would just start laughing. I'm sure and he would have a big mischievous grin and he'd say something like I don't owe anybody an apology. You all should have had your head screwed on straight to figure out this was a

4 (19m 20s):
joke. So many people near the end of their lives are trying to make things, right. He was trying to make trouble like a last like a last act like a lifelong Legacy prank kind of

3 (19m 35s):
You got the last laugh. The one thing you want to hear this but I'll talk to anybody. They won't believe me. Anyway, I'm here and happy to screw things up further, but I can't believe what I did for 50 some years. So I don't know what anyone would want to do with it except shut my mouth, but it's getting kind of late. God will set it pretty soon. And you know how she

4 (19m 58s):
is Howard died. Just a few months after he left his way through those interviews. He was 97.

2 (20m 13s):
Billy Sullivan is one of the producers of our show back to baby's got Bank. Okay. I know like way this sounds but we now have another old guy basically pranking the world right before he dies, but in this case Gets hundreds of thousands of people involved and excited and talking about this guy's plan that he set in motion for years and years Stephanie Foo explains

4 (20m 44s):
in 1926 in Toronto Canada. The 72 year old lawyer named Charles Vance Miller was at lunch at the Queens hotel with two lawyer friends. They got into an argument over some legal matter Miller told them they were both wrong and they prove it if they followed him up to his office. He eagerly ran up three flights of stairs grab a book plopped it on his desk. Ask and then died just put his head down on the desk and was gone. A couple days later rumors started swirling Charles. Vince Miller had done well for himself gotten Rich it avoided Scandal his whole life was an upstanding citizen though. He had no family. Never married. It hinted that he'd leave his fortune to the University of Toronto.

4 (21m 25s):
When his fellow lawyers brought out his well, that's not what they found as soon as Miller's people started executing as well. They realized that as well was like an elaborate prank as if he thrown a bunch of money out of a window to watch what would happen. He left stock in a brewery to prohibitionist pastors. He gave his racing stock to people who didn't believe in Bedding. He said he wanted to leave his vacation home in Jamaica to three other lawyers and I think for them to share except for the fact that the three lawyers all hated each other, but by far the Clause that unleash the most Mayhem was the last one. It's about all the rest of his money. I'll just read it to you at the expiration of ten years for my death give it and it's accumulations.

4 (22m 10s):
To the mother who has since my death given birth in Toronto to the greatest number of children as shown by the registrations under the vital statistics act and quote. In other words the woman who had the most babies in the ten years after his death would be awarded a whole lot of money 9 million Canadian dollars in today's money for almost 7 million u.s. Dollars there were immediately a number of theories as to why Miller did this but none of them were charitable if he really wanted to support a young woman with a bundle of kids. He could have just willed all the money to her at the time of his death, but setting this up over the next 10 years created a twisted contest some said he was an avid supporter of birth control.

4 (22m 52s):
So maybe setting off a baby-making storm could be a wicked way to force a conversation about it. Some said he was trying to test the legal systems ability to hold up a crazy will but that he'd really expected. It would be thrown out that the money would automatically just be donated to the University of Toronto his alma mater people said That Miller had been obsessed with the idea of what people would do for money. He liked to talk about how everybody had their price. Maybe he was testing the women of Toronto to see what they are as was. I don't think anybody, you know fully knows why he did this. This is Elizabeth Walton she wrote a 200-page dissertation on the contest. I just think he saw it as a big joke.

4 (23m 33s):
I feel like the modern-day word for it would be that he was basically a troll. That would be a good word for it. Yeah. Pretty much cops do it in as well. He says this will is necessarily uncommon in capricious because I have no dependents or near relations and no Duty rests upon me to leave any property at my death. And what I do leave is proof of my Folly and Gathering and retaining more than I required in my lifetime. Apparently Miller really like to drop dollar bills on the sidewalk and hide and watch people pick them up when I think about the kind of person who'd plant a wallet in the street and put it on YouTube today as a commentary on human nature. ER yeah, I feel like I know who that guy is.

4 (24m 21s):
For the first few years after Miller died. Nothing happened a few newspaper articles were written. Nobody took it very seriously. Some relatives went to court arguing that the money should go to them and then six years after his death the Attorney General introduced a bill trying to nullify the will and have the money donated to the University of Toronto. This was a mistake totally backfired before this. Not many. People knew about the well, but now that the government was trying to invalidate it the Press picked it up and there was a huge public outcry but not in the way you might think the public was like baby making race. Hell. Yeah, we want a baby-making race women's group supported the contest because they felt women should have a fair shot at the money.

4 (25m 10s):
Which what can I say? There's a different time others disagreed with the In intervening in people's will and Affairs altogether, it caused an uproar the government backtracked said okay fine. You people have fun. And with that the race was on usually when the story has been told it's like haha a Man created the zany will that set off a wild baby making storm in Canada? The conjures Brady Bunch images of big families happily stopping their way to fame and fortune knee-deep in Cabbage Patch children. But the way it unfolded was actually much darker because of course the story is about an old man encouraging women to go through the excruciating pain and danger of childbirth as often as possible and a 10-year period a 10-year period that was already half over this contest didn't really get started until six years in that made.

4 (26m 4s):
It skewed from the start. It meant suddenly the only contenders were women who had about six babies in the last six years women who didn't even know there was a contest to be part

2 (26m 14s):
of

4 (26m 15s):
They found out about it quick when reporters started pounding on their

2 (26m 18s):
doors. It was Madness really it was a media Feeding Frenzy. This

4 (26m 24s):
is Karen Nolan. She worked with Elizabeth to develop a screenplay for a movie based on the contest that aired on Canadian television in 2002. As soon as the will was verified reporters went through the birth registry found women who had already given birth to about six children since Charles's death and - to their homes to try and get the exclusive.

2 (26m 44s):
Civ, you know, they coined the phrase the stork Derby comparing it to like a horse race. So there was a Mad Dash to track down the women get their exclusive stories and to follow them and Hound them on the very intimate and personal details of their life.

4 (27m 4s):
It must have been a jarring experience to be an automatic front-runner and this bizarre contest but most of the mothers went along with it because of the nine million dollars. Many of the contestants were desperately poor during those first six years the Great Depression had taken hold nearly a quarter of Toronto's families were on welfare families were living in Shacks or camps some even it groundhogs to keep from starving. Canada's birth rate had actually plummeted at the time. And so most of the families that suddenly found themselves in the running to receive the stork Derby money agreed to Media scrutiny because they wanted the chance of the prize and because in the short term the newspapers offered them money.

4 (27m 44s):
Exclusive contracts where reporters could come and photograph and interview the families whenever they wanted to sometimes the families even got advertising deals with things like soap in many ways. This was sort of like an OG reality show albeit a really perverse one the frontrunners of the stork Derby even became household names like Jon & Kate Plus 8 or maybe more like Octomom after all it was build on the news reels as freak Canadian race papers all over the world from the New York daily. Lee news to the Marshfield Wisconsin News Herald picked up the story The Press followed a bunch of contenders, but I'm only going to run through three of the long-term favorites to win one of the first competitors that the newspapers dug up was mrs.

4 (28m 30s):
Grace big not. Oh, I don't want to give away who won or how many kids mrs. Big natto actually had during the race, but over her lifetime mrs. Big. No-No was pregnant 24 times though only 12 of those children lived. She's a working mother. She was a wizard with languages picked up polish-german Yiddish and worked as a court interpreter in Italian all the while. She raised her 12 children and would get up at 4:30 in the morning to make two dozen butter tarts macaroni meatballs sausage and her famous red sauce for her family, but the public didn't exactly see her as a hero. Here's Karen again,

2 (29m 5s):
the cultural makeup of Toronto at the time was a very waspy waspy. Xiety and we have this Italian family here who is you know reproducing children at a rate that outpaced the the white Protestant Anglo-Saxons.

4 (29m 27s):
Mrs. Bananas husband was an Italian immigrant and some papers weren't kind about that. These were the years leading up to World War Two. Of course, it didn't help that one of the other Italian contestants named one of their Derby babies little Benito Mussolini, but because of Nationality Italian families in the race received phone calls calling their families fascists and threatening to kidnap their children. Contestant number two was mrs. X she was the scandalous one.

2 (30m 3s):
She was a social outcast because her children were fathered by different men which was you know taboo and she was ashamed for that. She was considered to be a trollop, you know by having children with more than one man. That's

4 (30m 22s):
a c word.

2 (30m 25s):
Start

4 (30m 25s):
using that mrs. X had five children from her husband, but then her marriage fell apart he moved out and she entered into a new relationship with a man and had another five kids with him. She wanted to marry him but didn't have enough money to go through with her divorce all in all mrs. X had 10 children by the time she was 24. She tried to hide her identity because of the circumstances of her situation, but her name was eventually revealed Pauline met Clark. Contestant number three was mrs. Kenney.

2 (30m 55s):
She's my favorite character in the whole whole story why she your favorite I think her eccentricity for one thing her passion and her undeniable belief that she was the chosen one. If you will

4 (31m 12s):
mrs. Kenny was in it to win it. She was under 5 feet tall, but over the course of her lifetime she wound up carrying nine teen pregnancies to term. She was French Canadian. To an Irish man, and she believed that money was hers. She said she had the gift of Second Sight and a Divine connection with Miller who told her she was going to win. So, of course it had to be true. Mrs. Kenny was a talented wood carver and often told her carvings in the street and she carved a large number of statues of Miller even named one of her children after him at one point a bunch of the leading Derby mother's got together and said screw this whole race. Let's just share the winnings. There's a ton of money. They were all poor it would still A result in plenty for everyone but mrs.

4 (31m 55s):
Kenny was the sole hold out the only one who insisted. No, I'm the winner. She shouted once and I won't split with anybody. Why should I it's my money and if the judge doesn't give it all to me. I'll walk right up to the bench and punch him in the eye. So yeah. Mrs. Kenny was tough as nails, but she probably was the poorest at the three her family lived in a slum and their home was infested with rats. One night rats attacked three of her children. Tiny three-month-old Patrick and the worst of it. Here's Karen.

2 (32m 26s):
So yes, it had bitten the baby on the in the face and neck area and you know, as we all know throughout history rats carry diseases, but they couldn't afford the hospital. They couldn't they it is this is so difficult to even time. It's unbelievable that it still. Looks me up

4 (32m 50s):
mrs. Kenney and her neighbors tried desperately to have the public health nurse visit her home but to no avail the baby died and then it was all over the front pages of the newspaper, but always written in terms of what this meant for the chances of mrs. Kenney or whatever

2 (33m 12s):
Other Woman was you know that the coverage was centered

4 (33m 15s):
on every loss or tragedy or Our

2 (33m 19s):
Triumph was always put in terms of their chances in the in

4 (33m 23s):
the race, you know, not in terms

2 (33m 27s):
of what kind of a system do we have where someone's baby can die of rat bites in the first place.

4 (33m 41s):
It's hard to say how many women had babies specifically for this race when he talked to reporters. Everyone always have the same thing. I would have had this child. Anyway, I tend to believe mrs. Big narrow and many of the other Catholic families in the race. I don't think mrs. Big. Natto is Ever playing the game. She'd been cranking out a baby a year long before she heard a word about the Derby. So the whole contest was just an added bonus to her. But then there was mrs. Kenny who was obviously playing to win and said outright that she was trying to make babies. And then you have mrs. Clark. Mrs. Clark situation was the most unsettling. It came out that mrs. Clark's lover had drawn up a contract with her where you could get half her winnings if he impregnated her enough.

4 (34m 23s):
Mrs. Clark's lover was also abusive. He given her black. I broke her door down chased her out into the street after a fight. So maybe she didn't want to be pregnant as many times as she was. Maybe she was forced to Here's a Lisbeth you

2 (34m 37s):
sort of wonder what she basically abused was. She

4 (34m 40s):
taken advantage of Because if you

2 (34m 43s):
think about also the kind

4 (34m 44s):
of power Dynamic that Miller set up between men and women and at that time like if your partner or if your husband or your lover thought that if he got you pregnant over and over that you might win millions of dollars and she was a very young woman and so you were sort of canoeing that maybe these these women might have been coerced or you know, I mean, I don't know. I mean, I think it doesn't take a lot for someone to put together with this young woman and so many babies and with this huge

2 (35m 26s):
prize.

4 (35m 33s):
In 1933, it looked like mrs. Bennardo was going to win then in 1934 headlines read that mrs. Kenny had taken the lead in 1935. Another woman. Mrs. Tim like sped to the front in 1936 Madame X was listed as a late entry tied for second all the while the physical tool for these mothers was enormous mrs. Big natto suffered a hemorrhage near the end of her final pregnancy and many of the stork Derby mothers were in and out of the hospital for Asians and transfusions and all three mothers suffered the emotional toll of having stillborn babies during the race. Most of the women couldn't afford to have their children in hospitals. And so the infant mortality rate of the Derby babies was six times that of the national average 34 percent of these babies died, but aside from an article or two again, the Press only saw these deaths in the context of the race the headline in a 1936 Montreal paper was still born infant.

4 (36m 32s):
It may assure prize underneath a stillborn child May assure. Mrs. Matthew Kenny the prize in the stork Derby under the will of late Charles van similar. Her nearest competitor is believed to be mrs. Joseph big Naldo. The race ended on Halloween 1936, but at first it wasn't clear who'd won. Here's how our three competitors stood on that date. Mrs. Kenney claimed to have had eleven. Children. Mrs. Clark said she had 11 as well. Mrs. Bennardo had nine but mrs. Kenney and mrs. Clark didn't walk away with the prize that easily with mrs. Clark the scandalous one who had tied for the largest number of children the lawyers.

4 (37m 16s):
Charge of the estate had some questions about our case and raised the question of whether it's children born out of wedlock should count. This is where it was clear that there had been a huge oversight. Nobody had actually set rules for this contest at its beginning. Remember Miller explained this whole contest in two sentences in as well. So as the courts lat there were nuances that needed to be figured out rules to be set. But of course only after the fact of everything after the babies have been born and the blood transfusions administered A massive multi-way Court battle broke out. All of the contestants had to go to court to prove that. They had the most children each woman had to lawyer up and go up against the lawyers for the executor of the estate.

4 (37m 57s):
The fight went on for two years. And of course now the rules would be determined in front of an audience. To figure out if her illegitimate children would count mrs. Clark and her Lover's abusive sexual history was scrutinized on the stand. He recounted his physical violence with her admitted to giving her a black eye and busting down the door to her house and to the contract he drew up when he mentioned the contract the courtroom burst out into raucous mocking laughter. And in fact, the lawyers regularly through in crude jokes during the trial soliciting Giggles from the audience in the end. It was decided that illegitimate children could not be counted Within. Derpy and so mrs. Clark's number got knocked down to 5 she was out of the running.

2 (38m 46s):
Then came mrs.

4 (38m 47s):
Kenney the one who believed she was the winner and had carved statues of Miller. She'd also tied for 11, but apparently two of her children had not been properly registered probably because mrs. Kenny was too poor to deliver children in hospitals. She'd had them at home instead that brought her count down to nine children, but no big deal. She was still in the running. Then the lawyers pointed out three of her children had been stillborn quick warning. I'm about to talk about a lot of traumatic births until this point. Everyone had assumed that stillborn children would count for the Derby again this patent been in the rules and after all these women had carried these children to term but now in mrs. Kenny's trial lawyers for the executor of the estate started questioning that and so mrs.

4 (39m 32s):
Kenny had to sit I'll pack of lawyers argued around her about how a legitimate her dead children. Were they brought up doctors and had them give graphic descriptions of the stillbirth. If each baby breathe, if it's heart ever beat she had to relive the moments all over again. Mrs. Kenney cried throughout this and eventually ran from the courtroom.

2 (39m 54s):
It was just all too much for her. And at one point she left the courtroom just screaming that she was being treated like a dog

4 (40m 7s):
end You know there never was a sensitive portrait of this woman. It was all sort of caricature style. So I think the coverage just continued in that way, you know, the newspaper report said she was shrieking insinuated that she was drunk and said quote during the scuffle. Mrs. Kenney dealt at least half a dozen hard blows on the arms and bodies of the officers who showed great restraint in their tactics. In the end it didn't help her case. The child born dead is not in truth a child the judge wrote. It was that which might have been a child. Her account was knocked down to six. This is Kenny was out of the running lastly.

4 (40m 54s):
There was mrs. Bennardo who again had nine children, but one was stillborn and another was unregistered mrs. Bennardo suggested that there was some conspiracy with this. Said she'd register the child herself at the parliament buildings. She was quoted as saying if they can't find the record, it'll be just too bad for them up there. I will tear the parliament buildings apart before I give up. I'm supposed to be in the hospital now with another baby coming but I'll stay on my feet until I drop or this is cleared up, but her Prada stations didn't sway the judge and she eventually did give up after all she did have a job in almost a dozen mouths to feed at the end of two years. None of the three favorites found.

4 (41m 34s):
Up at the finish line for other women with nine babies each one. Each of these women walked away with what today would be about 2 million Canadian dollars or one and a half million u.s. Dollars most were late comers who really only became candidates when the Heavy Hitters were eliminated in these four women and something else in common. Here's Elizabeth. I mean the families that one were white Protestant families who were essentially middle-class and Had homes that when the reporters went into them and describe the homes, it was always, you know, the clean and tidy home and the well-kept this and that, you know, the

2 (42m 16s):
forerunners through the whole

4 (42m 18s):
race were working class people and unemployed people and they had very death Nick backgrounds. Maybe it wasn't a coincidence that these women didn't win. Maybe they didn't win because they didn't have the means to navigate the system. As elegantly or maybe the judge who decided the contest had his finger on the scale. And it's last four years. The Public's view of the contest had turned as people saw how it played out. It had encouraged the poorest women to have the most children. That's that alarm Bells off for big group of people in what was a growing and popular movement at the time Eugenics Teddy Roosevelt was into Eugenics Alexander Graham Bell W EB Dubois.

4 (43m 3s):
Even Helen Keller a refresher you Genesis believe that in order to improve the human species some I'll shouldn't be allowed to reproduce and yes, that's just as creepy as it sounds at the end of the contest they came forth and droves to say that the money shouldn't be given to any women. Here's Elizabeth the social commentary was around, you know, who are these people and should they be we producing they're not canadian-born they're poor. They're not the right people a minister Reverend Claire silcox submitted written testimony. Simoni against the participants as quote unspeakable women and argue that these poor children would eventually reduce wages and lower the standard of living an editor for a Canadian newspaper said that the contest attracted quote those whose progeny would be of little use to the state Elizabeth and Karen believe that this environment influence the judge that he eliminated on technicalities all the contestants who had not made the right kinds of babies.

4 (44m 8s):
Here's Karen.

2 (44m 9s):
Yeah, I do. I believe that it was intentional. I mean because they went to such lengths to discredit. Those that were the others the French Canadian Catholic the woman with the illegitimate children the Italian, you know Catholic with a immigrant husband, it became a platform for them to send the message of to use of a modern phrase stay in your lane. Like immigrants know their place. They were definitely trying to send a message

4 (44m 41s):
after the lawsuit took place. Mrs. Clark and mrs. Kenny both filed appeals and both receive settlements for the equivalent of Mm Canadian dollars each mrs. Bennardo The Immigrant translator walked away with nothing

2 (44m 56s):
ladies and gentlemen, the antipasto bar is now open

4 (44m 59s):
last December. I shuffled around a table piled high with prosciutto and provolone Santa came into the banquet hall and little kids ran past me to get their guests from him. I was at the 89th annual bagnato holiday party, which as you can imagine is bigger than most holiday family gatherings. Mrs. Big. Natto. Remember had 12 children. And they had children who also had children who by now have had children to one of her great granddaughters gives me a rough estimate. There are over a hundred and fifty people now who are direct descendants of Grace about a hundred and ten of The Descendants and their families are in a reception hall giving generous air kisses then turning screaming. Oh my God, Uncle Paulie.

4 (45m 40s):
Everybody can see get the everybody among the attendees many teachers an agent for the cast of The Young and the Restless a few writers. And a former mayor, so take that eugenicists but talking to a bunch of the Magneto's not that many of them know much about the Derby and those who do don't seem to care but it just doesn't make you mad that Grace didn't get any

2 (46m 2s):
money. Life's not all about money, but no I don't I don't think so. From what I hear. She was just that amazing woman with an a huge heart and I don't think she would get angry her oldest daughter Mildred told me a story that might answer that question, you know, her her mother made a huge broad thought of sauce on the stove for Sunday dinner and and she asked Mildred and one of the boys to put it out on the back porch to cool off. And when they went out to get it, it was gone and Mildred was very angry. And her mother says what just think Mildred somebody's having such a wonderful dinner tonight

4 (46m 45s):
after the Derby Grace told the whole family that they weren't ever to talk about that dumb contest ever again, but she otherwise seemed unfazed. She continued having more kids even took an orphan from off the street. It's true that the chaos of the stork Derby turned her into a laughingstock and rock Toronto for over a decade but a century later, it's mostly forgotten just a funny old tale from hundred years ago Charles Vance Miller didn't have any children and unless you preface it with remember that crazy stork Derby guy. Nobody remembers his name, but more than a hundred people get together every year to share stories about Grace big not. Oh, There's more than one way to leave a legacy.

2 (47m 36s):
Stephanie who choose to be one of our producers here at our show. She's now off writing a book that is part Memoir part science about complex PTSD coming up something said in the middle of a race between One racer and another the dated both of them for years after that the minute from Chicago public radio when our program continues Support for This American Life comes from Capital One. Welcome to banking reimagined Capital One checking and savings accounts have no fees or minimums and a top-rated banking app that lets you manage your money anytime anywhere check on the account balance deposit checks pay bills and transfer money on the go.

2 (48m 16s):
This is banking reimagined. What's in your wallet Capital One na member FDIC This American Life from Ira Glass today's program The long fuse we never really use those sound effects and I should have those totally worth it. Anyway, Today's Show. The long fuse is about people saying things that end up having consequences for years after we arrived it at three of our show act three meat ball and chain. This last story is about three.

2 (48m 57s):
Three Little Words uttered a 25 miles an hour during a sporting event and the years and years of feelings that those words Unleashed Jared Marcel tells what happened Ian. Billy was 21 when this whole thing happened. He's competing in a big bike race a national championship. It was in Gainesville Ian's from Austin and when they got there he saw that the roles were pretty flat just like home plus it was humid. Not too bad just like home. So he was Hey, I have a good shot at this thing. When the race starts everyone comes out blazing everybody was racing really aggressively in that race.

2 (49m 39s):
There was just a lot of attacks there be a lead group of five Riders and then it would become 10 and then 15 and 20 and and then a group would come out of that of five Riders and it was kind of like this amoeba that kept kind of like breaking up and coming back

4 (49m 54s):
together

2 (49m 56s):
in wasn't considered one of the favorites but on this day in this Reese he was better than most he kept attacking taking a lead stay near the front the whole time and then at one point he realizes oh man, I'm first now you'd think being in first place is a good thing, but for the majority of a bike race competitors play Hot Potato with the top spot chances are if you're staying first early on for too long. You probably going to lose. No, you're definitely gonna lose because the person in first takes on all the the wind and cycling. This is a big thing the front-runner basically works the hardest and that makes the person that's peddling behind them have to work a lot less hard.

2 (50m 41s):
I mean scientifically it's like 30 to 50% less hard. That's why I'm by creases. You see bikers lined up behind the lead guy. I remember like bending my head over kind of as I was pedaling as hard as I could and looking behind me. And and yeah, I just saw this kind of white and black checkered. Jersey coming across to me and that was that was Mike Mike Friedman. He knew who the favorites had this race were and this Mike Friedman wasn't one of them and starting to spread it as hard as I could he would like cause way back to me and I just couldn't believe it like he seemed so done but like he just he's just really tenacious like he just kept coming back Ian was worried now if he kept the leg Lead black and all the win for Mike.

2 (51m 32s):
She was gonna get tired Mike might burst ahead and win so Ian was like let him get front for a bit. I started like hosting and then we were kind of just like coasting and he would look back and the group would be like getting closer to catching us and and he said, You can win you can win three words. I knew instantly like what it meant. He means if I stop attacking him and let him stay with me and let him sit in my draft then when we get to the Finish Line.

2 (52m 15s):
He won't Sprint me. He'll let me win the bike race. Now when cycling this type of Gentlemen's Agreement happens all the time competitors will temporarily agreed to a truce so they can conserve energy. Energy and stay ahead of the pack. It's a strategy sometimes this happens at the end which could end up deciding who wins like hey, there's two of us here at the top. I won't spend on you. If you take on the wind resistance for me, we can beat everyone else Ian went for it. I just put my head down and went as hard as I could. I mean I felt like I was just going so fast and we had we had a like a motorcycle like a motorcycle referee that would follow the Some they they come up and give you time splits on they'll either just tell you or sometimes they'll have like a whiteboard.

2 (53m 4s):
That's all right the gap between you and the Chasers and so what they kept coming up and it would be you know, you have 20 seconds and then it was like 30 seconds and then 40 seconds and like the Gap just kept going out and out and out. I mean, I remember with like one lap to go and just like feeling so happy like I'd already won the race. And then so we go around and then we're coming towards the finish line and we're getting ready to take a kind of the final left hand turn to the finish and I turned to him and I was like, yeah you remember our deal right?

2 (53m 48s):
And then Mike just started sprinting and I just remember watching him come by on my left and my leg started cramping as we Of that hill and I was just like I can't believe this is happening. It felt like this dream just all of a sudden kind of turned into a nightmare and I didn't win the bike race my did Mike one just belief quickly turned to Total rage. I was like so upset remember riding up next to him and hitting him on the back and yelling something like what the First place takes home a jersey with stars and stripes like Captain America and watch them put Mike's metal on and then they gave him a Jersey.

2 (54m 36s):
And then traditionally like everybody raises their arms on the podium after the national anthem plays and I was standing right next to Mike and I didn't I wouldn't hold his hand. I didn't raise my arm and that that was like the photo of the race even was not having it. He immediately told the reporter what happened. He was like Mike cheated he cheated. His side of the story was that. There was no deal that I was just confused like it like when he said like you can win this race, he was like no.

2 (55m 18s):
No, like what I was saying was like if we work together if you stop attacking me, you can win. Stop attacking me. Stop trying to get rid of me. You can win if you just keep pulling and don't let this group behind catch us as if to say. Hey man you doing well keep it up. Might even win this thing. I said you could win. Not that I'd let you win. So life goes on in races professionally for a bit but gets injured and becomes a journalist. Of course, he covers cycling Mike becomes an Olympian the whole time.

2 (56m 3s):
They're sort of circling each other's orbits, but avoiding crossing paths, and annoyingly. Everyone in the racing world really likes Mike. He had this nickname as like meatball and he had a Blog and there was a lot of sort of like love for meatball. I was a little bit resentful about that. I was always thought like they don't know the real Mike like he's a cheater and he goes he goes back on his word. Like I would tell people or people would ask me about like what happened in that race and I feel like well Mike's a a cheater and they just feel like well, it doesn't seem like something he would do, you know, and I'd be like no, you don't know people would sort of look at me sideways when I was like, I hate my favorite be like nobody.

2 (56m 49s):
Hates Mike Freedman. What are you talking about saying you hate? Mr. Rogers, right? Like yeah. Yeah. So as time passes this race days, like a thorn in the inside. I realized like saying that sounds like a high school football player like talking about competing in the State title. Okay for whatever else and then I totally get like how kind of like ridiculous and small that sounds as an adult, but it's it's weird. It's just How like how you cling to those things then one day about 15 years later. He's covering a race in Colorado. They were microwaved.

2 (57m 28s):
He's on the tour bus hanging out and then one of the guys on the bus because like I'm gonna give Mike a call and see if he'll come to the start line and and hang out with us on the bus before we start and Mike came onto the bus. He didn't even like look at each other and then he left and then when he came back I was I'm standing outside the bus and he had like a tray of coffees and he handed me one and and I think he was just like, you know, I want I just want to talk to you about that day. I think about that race all the time and I was like, man, me too.

2 (58m 12s):
I remember seeing his lower lip shaking just shaking and that is Mike Friedman. That damn the bus Mike didn't fully fessed up and apologize for Mike. It's complicated. Here's how he remembers those final moments of the race. I wasn't even thinking I just

3 (58m 31s):
man we made this left-hand turn and the finish line is right, you know within sight, you

2 (58m 34s):
know, 250 meters and before I knew it man. I was sprinting

3 (58m 38s):
even going up to the line. I knew what I was doing. I was wrong, but I couldn't I couldn't stop

2 (58m 43s):
do know why you did what you did or have a better understanding of why you did it. Well, I think there I was 17 years old at the time. So,

3 (58m 56s):
you know,

2 (58m 56s):
I I just yeah, I don't know. It's just it's kind of one of those things that

3 (59m 4s):
I don't have an answer. You know,

2 (59m 6s):
I try my best but I don't always do my best kind of thing. It wasn't pre-planned. It wasn't done in a way to be nefarious. It wasn't I'm going to tell this guy I'm going to do this in this Sprint wasn't done in that way wasn't done that way at all. That's it. You know, I mean, that's it. That's the only time I've ever cheated ever at a bicycle race ever. He immediately regretted it. Did it change how you saw yourself as a athlete as a competitor? It did change how I saw myself, you know, this is

3 (59m 45s):
just I don't have anything else like that that I can

2 (59m 49s):
definitively say affected me the way that this had that was the one thing that I knew, you know like that I had done wrong. It ate at him. He didn't race for two years. Mike didn't even tell anyone for a really long time fessing up that he cheated with me and that he was just that a cheater not a kid who lost himself for a minute in a race. I do it. I didn't admit that this happened until like, you know, I

3 (1h 0m 20s):
was with someone that I wanted to marry, you know, and then there was one other

2 (1h 0m 24s):
person that I told why I was drunk and he's my best friend and never meant as much to anyone else as I did. Him, but he couldn't let it go. He thought about it for years after his cycling career was done his life sort of tagged his marriage ended hit bottom. He was living in a camper and his friends land when he realized he wanted to reach out to Ian that he missed his opportunity and the bus a year back. Here's Ian. He was moving back to Colorado. He was driving back and he called me and that's when he said yeah. Yeah, I mean you're you're right. It was a deal and I'm sorry that I crossed the Finish Line first that I didn't hold up.

2 (1h 1m 11s):
My my end of the bargain Michael someone to give Ian the Jersey the Captain America one. He stuffed it deep in the drawer all these years. So they agreed to meet up. He drives like this really like revved up. Like I think it's a Jeep or a pickup truck or something and you could like hear it like run. I'm down the street like you can't even pull up and I mean I was like kind of nervous and he came up and he was holding the jersey and he gave it to me right away. He looked me in the eyes and he said sorry and I said Thank you like he had talked about like he is I think he had even called like the governing body and asked him if there's any way that the actual results could be changed and like yeah he was Just like every effort to make it, right.

2 (1h 2m 3s):
I was just like wow, like when does that ever happen in someone's life? And I mean, I don't even know when I've ever done that, you know, like just like made something that I did wrong right like decades later. This event set off by a few words. I just ballooned in ballooned in their heads for about 15 years, even though in the grand scheme of things this race didn't matter. It's not like it was the reason Mike made it or the thing that ended in his career and fixing it took something. That's so simple three words you were right.

2 (1h 2m 49s):
Jared myself. His reporting can be heard on the podcast caught from WNYC Ian Daly the racer who got cheated out of his victory wrote about this in bicycling magazine. That's what we heard about the story. The other racer Mike Friedman now runs a non-profit teaching kids about bikes called pedaling Minds today's program is rear. I'm and when we reached out to Mike this week, he said he regretted replying. I don't know when Jared asked him why he did it. He said he doesn't know why and it was so Out here Otis in an e-mail quote In the Heat of the Moment. I made a poor decision paid for it with my character honor integrity and self-respect today as I write. I feel selfish by apologizing to him when I did so long after is inherently a selfish act, but the only way to truly free my heart was to admit it.

2 (1h 4m 8s):
Well program is produced by Diane. Woo the people who put a show together includes Ben Calhoun, so. Chase damage Shiva shankara love even the cornfield near drumming Jared Floyd Damien. Grave Miki Miki Stone Nelson Catherine. Raimondo. Been failing Nadia Raymond, Robinson. Vienna was a ship Billy Sullivan Christopher Sir Topham Hatt. Tyranny and Nancy Updike or managing editors for today's program are Susan Burton and David kestenbaum additional production helpful nor Gil special. Thanks. Today is Tommy Slocum chuckling Chris Bateman David Goldenberg Veronica Simmons Astrid Wang Brandon cough way and Michelle Solomon our website This American Life dot-org. You can listen to our Archive of over 600 episodes for Italy free This American Life is to give it a public radio stations by PRX the public radio exchange.

2 (1h 4m 50s):
Thanks, as always for programs co-founder. Mr. Cornell to you know, I called him earlier today and when I called him, I don't know he was exercising in the middle of his Sprint intervals. I mean

3 (1h 5m 2s):
I can't really like

4 (1h 5m 4s):
I need a man the timing of

2 (1h 5m 6s):
this. I'm Ira Glass back next week with more stories of This American Life.