0 (1s):
When he wants to explain to people what his life is like these days, Glenn, he sometimes tells this story on election night in 2016, he says, he went to a bar, got a seat near a TV, or did a beer and started making small talk.

1 (13s):
And I had turned to the guy to my right and said, did you vote? And from there, he went into a long explanation about just some shadow government ideas and, and whether voting makes a difference and probably 10 minutes into it, he was talking about mass shootings and then eventually Sandy hook,

0 (37s):
Sandy hook, of course, we're a gunman killed 20 children on first grade, as well as seven adults is random stranger then started telling any of this particular story about Sandy hook. Either the whole shooting was fake. It had to be fake. He said, because one of those first graders also showed up as a victim and a second mass shooting all the way over in Pakistan, in the corners of the internet where people trade Sandy hook conspiracy stories. This is a key piece of evidence that Sandy hook was not real. Of course it was real. And what happened in Pakistan was in reality about two years after Sandy hook, the Taliban gunned down more than a hundred kids there. And there was a public vigil and at the public vigil, probably as a sign of solidarity with other kids who had died in school shootings, mourners had this photo of a boy from Sandy hook, smiling and wearing a Spiderman shirt under a quarter, a Jakob furry cower, Sandy hook deniers saw that in the coverage and they pounced.

0 (1m 36s):
Did he die twice? Did he die at all? So the guy at the bar with Lenny is rattling through all this Pakistan stuff. And then as when he explained to one of my coworkers, Mickey, make the guy mentioned the kid's name, Noah Pozner,

1 (1m 52s):
I really need to hear much more than that. Just needed to shut him down basically. So what did you do? I took out my driver's license and I said, Whoa, look who you're talking to. You know, show some respect.

0 (2m 3s):
The boy in the photo was Glenny son, Noah, who was six when he died.

1 (2m 9s):
Well, he sure he connected it instantly. Yeah. And he just became more agitated. Very angered went outside and maybe had a cigarette, came back, yelled at me some more, Oh my God, how much did they pay you? Well, how can you do that?

0 (2m 24s):
Committed to his beliefs. I was the villain. People like this man at the bar, pretty much redefined everything about the way Lenny loses life. Where are you going to is how he lives. He runs into these hoaxers in person. And pretty much every day online, they think the government has paid him millions to play the part of a grieving dad and their minds. Lenny is the sick one. No, it was never even his kid and the person who has popularized these theories more than anybody is Alex Jones who runs the website info Wars and who pushed these theories with his radio show and his YouTube videos. Alex Jones made his name right after nine 11 promoting the idea that nine 11 was an attack orchestrated by our own government.

0 (3m 7s):
Sandy hook. John said many times that he did not believe the shooting was real.

2 (3m 12s):
Shandy hook is a synthetic completely fake with actors. In my view, manufactured. I couldn't believe it. At first. I knew they had actors there clearly, but I thought they killed some real kids. And it just shows how bold they are that they clearly used actors.

0 (3m 31s):
He's going to the government or some shadowy global forces are the ones who hire these actors. He and the other hoaxers called them crisis actors. I was like this whole alternate world that exists right next to the real one that makes life miserable for parents like Glenny, but I'm like most parents in that situation, Lenny decided to go all action hero on the hoaxers and on Alex Jones action hero, I will do what needs to get done to defend my family. Damn. The consequences. Lenny is resourceful. He is dog-eared. He does not give up. And he's effective right now. So many people believe in these alternate worlds and conspiracy theories about, you know, the presidential election being stolen or the hope queue idea about pedophile rings at the top levels of government.

0 (4m 19s):
And so we're rerunning this episode that we first ran in 2019, because it's amazing to hear what fighting back against that kind of thing really means today in our show, we have Lenny story. And then in the second half of the show, we have a story from writer, John Ronson, where he also tries to untangle where this alternate hoaxer world ends and the real one begins from WBZ Chicago. It's this American life I'm Eric Glass stay with us like one down the rabbit hole. So our story about the transformation of Lenny Posner was put together by Miki meek.

0 (4m 60s):
I should say there's some curse words in today's program that we have and beeped for this podcast version of the show. If you prefer a beeped version, it is at our website. Here's Miki.

3 (5m 9s):
The first time Lenny became aware of any conspiracy theories about Sandy hook was about a month after the shooting. He'd been on a media blackout, trying to get through Noah's funeral and taking care of his two young girls. They were also at the elementary school that morning, and one of them was Noah's twin sister. She hid in a separate classroom, but one day Lenny finally felt ready to go online, read the news, Google the son's name,

2 (5m 34s):
Whereas coming up on search results, the forums, and it's just completely disgusting.

3 (5m 41s):
And just over 30 days, this whole world had been invented. And one of the central pieces of it involved Lenny's wife info Wars fans were dissecting this one interview she did on CNN. It was with Anderson Cooper just days after Noah's funeral. What do you want people to know about?

4 (5m 58s):
He loved running and playing with his siblings and you love bubble baths and fireflies. And he loves eating the inside of Oreo cookies. And he played the video Gangnam style ad nauseum. I understand he used to tell his siblings that he, that he managed to taco factory yes. That he was going to split his time as an adult, between managing a taco factory and being an astronaut.

3 (6m 23s):
The comments online were gross and flimsy. Why didn't she sound sadder? Why would she put on lipstick if she was really grieving? And wasn't she too old to be the mom of a six-year-old kid, they were convinced that something was up. How are you holding up?

4 (6m 39s):
I, most of the time, I'm, I'm kinda numb. I think every mama out there can relate to the fact of how long it takes to create a baby. Those nine months that you watch every ultrasound and every heartbeat. And it takes nine months to create a human being. And it takes seconds for an AR 15 to take that away from the surface of this earth,

3 (7m 2s):
This reference to guns was another aha moment for conspiracy theorists. Some of them started digging into Veronique's life, looked up her maiden name and then said, Hey, look at this. There's a Swiss diplomat who has her exact same name. And even fishier this diplomat once went to an arms control summit at the United nations. So maybe they're the same person. Maybe she's one of those elite globalists trying to make guns look bad. So president Obama can repeal the second amendment. Suddenly every real sentiment Veronique shared about Noah was getting reinterpreted as lines from a sinister script.

4 (7m 36s):
They were here and they mattered. They all had families and they matter.

3 (7m 43s):
And the kicker that cinched it for these conspiracy theorists Anderson Cooper's knows there's this moment when the tip of his nose disappears because of a digital glitch in the video, what CNN says was normal interference that happens with a live satellite feed. It's just a couple seconds, but hoaxers, wouldn't let it go.

1 (8m 1s):
They said that it's a green screen or blue screen or whatever. So that was a fake interview. And vernac was a participant of a fake stage CNN interview. That conspiracy theory was all over YouTube and it was all over YouTube with Noah's image.

3 (8m 21s):
I've talked to parents, who've lost kids and other mass shootings, and they've all been blindsided by online harassment, from conspiracy theorists. The crisis actor claim is so common. Now these attacks usually start almost immediately after victims are Aidid in the media and parents who go on TV and talk about gun control, like Veronique. They get it. The worst Sandy hook is when this really took off families get stuck fending off all this crazy hate by themselves. There just aren't that many resources for them because law enforcement still hasn't figured out how to deal with most cyber harassment and the tech companies aren't much help. So most families just try to ignore the conspiracy theorists and hope they'll eventually go away. And that's what Lenny did for awhile.

3 (9m 3s):
His life was Iraq, but after about a year and a half, they were still at it and he couldn't let it go anymore.

1 (9m 9s):
I realized that the grieving requires, you know, a calmness and a silence. And all of this material was a distraction for me and it was noise and I needed to handle that noise so that I could have the silence and calm that I needed.

3 (9m 30s):
There's a photo I love of Lenny with his arm wrapped around Noah. He's got a walrus mustache and he's kneeling on a trampoline with a soft smile it's spring. And Noah has all this big Brown hair that cheeks, he snuggling his whole body into Lenny's chest. Lenny's got tons of family photos like these posted them in an online Memorial. He made for Noah right after he died. The Sandy hook deniers downloaded them and repurpose them into cruel means root fake across Noah's face. Took a picture of his headstone and photo-shopped under his name is not buried here. Photos of his daughters were circulating to, he couldn't just leave them out there on the web with the trolls.

3 (10m 10s):
Lenny got consumed with thinking about how to take control of the situation, how to extract Noah and his family from all of this, the internet didn't scare him. It was actually his comfort zone. He ran his own it business. He was not the kind of guy who sat around and complained about how something didn't work. He was the guy who fixed stuff.

1 (10m 29s):
So you need to find what the problem is, and then find, you know, what your solution is. And then start getting closer to that solution step by step. Otherwise the problem is overwhelming. And then you just want someone else to fix it for you. You have to track down where you can make a difference and get closer to being less broken.

3 (10m 54s):
There was one other thing that made Lenny, especially qualified to deal with the conspiracy theorists. He used to enjoy those theories in itself. The classic fun ones, Bigfoot Lochness area, 51, NASA faking the moon landing WIC. What's the fun of it.

1 (11m 9s):
It's suspending your disbelief. It's like sitting down and watching a science fiction movie, and then looking at the what if, and it's, it's just fun, especially if there's no price to pay in your life. And there's no cost to that way of thinking. Then it's just the,

3 (11m 24s):
Yeah. Sometimes he even listened to Alex Jones in his car. And in fact, just a month after the shootings, when Lenny first saw those things on Alex Jones, his website, he tried to reach out. He found a general info Wars, email address and shot him off this message. Alex. I'm very disappointed to see how many people are directing more anger at families that lost their children in new town, accusing us of being actors haven't. We had our share of pain and suffering. I used to enjoy listening to your shows. Now I, that your type of show created these hateful people and they need to be reeled in exclamation point. About an hour later, he heard back from Jones's staff.

1 (12m 3s):
They responded with, we have not supported the crisis actor claim. We insist that it's a true event on and on

3 (12m 10s):
This wasn't true. Jones did spread the crisis actor theory. It was on his website at the time. And he started talking about it a lot that CNN interview with Veronique, he talked about it all the time.

2 (12m 22s):
Folks, we've got video of Anderson Cooper with clear blue screen out there. He's not there in the town square. We've got people clearly coming up and, and laughing and then doing the fake crying. We've clearly got people where it's actors playing different parts of different people. I've looked at it. And undoubtedly, there's a coverup there's actors. They're manipulating, they've been caught lying, and they were pre-planning before it and enrolled out with it.

3 (12m 47s):
What Lenny wanted was a one-on-one conversation with Jones, but it didn't happen.

1 (12m 52s):
Or a few emails after that asking me to prove that I'm really who I am and, you know, sort of leading on to get me on the show.

3 (12m 60s):
Lenny didn't want that. He's very private and very reserved a behind the scenes kind of guy. He's careful when he talks things like no comment that's off the record. Or do I have to talk about my personal life that came up all the time during our interview, one of the ground rules he gave is that I had to run his quotes past him and his lawyer, because he's worried about his own safety. If his words were misconstrued also he's fighting some of the conspiracy theorists in court. We agreed to his terms. And in the end, he didn't ask me to edit any of his quotes, but he did request that we remove one personal detail and we did now a year and a half after he reached out to Alex Jones, he decided to try a new tactic.

3 (13m 44s):
He'd go directly to Jones's followers and the other Sandy hook, conspiracy theorists.

5 (13m 49s):
I think he, he, his approach was I'm going to make them see the light.

3 (13m 53s):
This is very unique. She and Lenny were separated when the shooting happened, but we're still very much in each other's lives. They decided to start releasing documents about NOAA report cards, school photos,

5 (14m 5s):
Even disclosed Noah's death certificate, which was a difficult decision that we made. But figured after a while, you know of providing this, this hard copy, convincing evidence, that reason would prevail. And they would say, Oh, okay. You know, yeah, you've made your point. You know, I'm going to come around.

3 (14m 26s):
Then he also decided he answered anyone's questions. He wanted to join this notorious Facebook group called Sandy hook hoax. It's where a lot of the deniers were congregating and sharing theories. The cover photo on their page looked like it came straight out of a horror movie, a corpse light girl with a keep quiet finger in front of her mouth, the administrator of the Facebook group immediately let him in. Did you identify yourself as like I am a father or you just,

1 (14m 52s):
They knew I wasn't stealing here.

3 (14m 53s):
Yeah. To me it seems so crazy to even go there. Like this doesn't exactly sound like a group of people who'd want to listen to you.

1 (15m 1s):
People who are conspiracy minded, see these tragedies unfold on the internet or on television. They still feel separate from these events. And I considered that bridging that gap could be an important step.

3 (15m 19s):
I can add a human element to this. That's right.

1 (15m 21s):
That's right. And so here I am. I am. I'm the person. And so let let's see what happens. The question started pouring in why weren't these children rushed to hospitals? Why wasn't anything done? Why aren't you suing, you know, the MTS or why aren't you doing this? Why wasn't a rescue helicopter called from Hartford. And I started to recognize some of the patterns that were there.

3 (15m 44s):
There are the people you'd expect in a conspiracy group. Anti-gun control people and the government people, but also parents.

1 (15m 51s):
They were young parents with small children and they just couldn't wrap their minds around the reality that you know, that an adult can look at children in their eyes and pump bullets into their head, but they just can't deal with that.

3 (16m 12s):
The conversation on this Facebook group quickly got ugly and abusive. Some of the members started using antisemitic slurs. Lenny was trying everything to keep up a rapport with them. Even told them I listened to Alex Jones in my car. I used to argue with people about nine 11 being an inside job. I entertained that we didn't go to the moon, but it didn't work. So we started blocking people and fighting back. This got him booted from the group. What's remarkable is just how up for this whole fight. He was when a bunch of people kept private messaging him, Lenny thought, you know what? I'll just start my own Facebook group. He called it conspiracy theorists anonymous. This name was meant as a joke. He has a dry sense of humor.

3 (16m 54s):
Anyway, he made some progress with people, the people who aren't full-blown deniers, who actually wanted help parsing out the truth of what really happened, but they dropped away once they got answers. And pretty soon the only ones left were just dark, sadistic trolls coming in to entertain themselves.

1 (17m 17s):
Okay.

3 (17m 18s):
One of Lenny's worst trolls was a guy named Wolfgang. Helbig that's his real name by the way, he's a retired school security expert in Florida. Who's probably the number one new town hoaxer in the world. This guy travels to new town appeared as an expert on Alex Jones. This show he's even called for Newtown parents to zoom the bodies of their children, to prove that their dad, how they ordered a background check on Lenny, then send it out in an email to lots of people. It was almost a hundred pages, the scene, everything from a social security number and phone number to almost every address he'd ever lived with photos. Names of his relatives were included to the online harassment had become so intense at Lenny and Veronique. And their two girls went into hiding.

3 (17m 60s):
They moved into separate high security gated communities, but Lenny's address kept getting exposed. And hoaxer started posting videos of where he lived.

1 (18m 8s):
One apartment that I had moved into. I had only lived there, I think for a month. And I got a call from a particular hoaxer who happens to be in prison now for attempted murder. And he called me up and was acting like a smart ass. And then read me my social security number. And then read me my address, where I had just moved into. And I said, well, you know what? I don't like this apartment that much anyway. And, and I moved shortly after that

3 (18m 40s):
To try and throw the hoaxers off. Lenny started putting utility bills in different names and got multiple PO boxes all over the place. All this forced Lenny into a new battle strategy. If they were going to expose him, he'd do the same to them. He wrote newspaper. Op-eds clean out how big and the others by name and when these hoaxers posted his new addresses online, he did the same to them. He also made it so that if you Google their names, the first thing anyone would see was all the Sandy hook garbage they'd created. And Lenny being Lenny decided to write a biography about Wolfgang, how big his life called the hoax of a lifetime. He released it as an ebook. Lenny became the one who knocks.

3 (19m 20s):
He calls this troll rustling. It's like trolling, the trolls. He gets both energized and sheepish. When talking about it, he insists sometimes the only way to fight hardcore hoaxers is it turned the tables on them. And it worked on some of them freak them out. Still. Lenny was just one guy and every day, new mountains of content about no over showing up online, his crusade was a lonely one. The hoaxer seemed so dangerous. Most of the other Newtown parents wanted to stay as far away as possible from them.

1 (19m 56s):
In my darker moments, the conspiracy part of me would return and ask myself, am I the only one that lost a child? Why am I the only one fighting back? I mean, what the hell is going on? I mean, people were trampling all over other people's children's memories and those children no longer had a voice to defend themselves. And people were just silent about it.

3 (20m 23s):
But while Lenny was escalating his tactics, so it was the other side around the second anniversary of Sandy hook. A small group of conspiracy theorists made an almost three hour movie on YouTube questioning the shooting. They described themselves as independent journalists and researchers, but their backgrounds were totally random. They included a magician, the owner of a moving company, a guy who'd been arrested for stabbing someone five times and a stay at home. Dad. I just had an idea

0 (20m 48s):
That I wanted to be an underground filmmaker myself.

3 (20m 52s):
This is Doug Maguire. He says he met this group online on YouTube and got brought in at the end to help Polish the movie. It felt exciting at the time, Doug was a struggling filmmaker in Los Angeles. Occasionally did some stunt work. He got into conspiracy theories. The way lots of people do watching them on YouTube. Like Lenny, he loved the ones about Bigfoot in UFO's, but then he went to look up news about Sandy hook and YouTube recommendation system started suggesting hoax videos. He didn't believe the theory that the kids were actors. He thought children died, but he felt pretty sure there was some other kind of coverup going on, maybe one with the mafia. And where did you get that information? Like where did you come up with this idea of a mob?

3 (21m 33s):
Had you read this somewhere?

0 (21m 34s):
No, it was, you know, cause I make movies. So I think I have an active imagination. Confused. What was your thinking? A family had done someone wrong, like let's say the movie Goodfellas. Okay. Henry Hill is hiding out in a little village.

3 (21m 51s):
You also mentioned kindergarten cop. When they released their film, they uploaded it to a bunch of different accounts on places like YouTube, Vimeo, daily motion. Pretty soon it was showing up everywhere to combat this. Lenny had to change tactics one final time, no more talking to hoaxers one-on-one. Now the thing he'd focus on was content removal, scrubbing their stuff off the internet. He decided he was going to get every single copy of the movie taken down, which wasn't going to be easy. He couldn't just write into YouTube and say, Hey, this video is full of lies. That wasn't going to be enough. The internet is full of lies. He needed something else. And he realized he had it.

3 (22m 32s):
These conspiracy theorists had used photos and videos of him and Noah and Veronique. Those were his property. Making this movie a copyright violation. The stolen images were now a useful weapon. Let me track down every place where this video was posted. And you've probably seen this. There's a little button you can click on to report stuff. So that's what he did for hours every day and success sort of the hoaxers kept reposting and moving the video on to other sites.

0 (23m 0s):
You know, the crazies are not running the asylum. It's the, it's the platforms who are allowing this to go on. So that solidifies it for me, that we have to just remove all of this garbage and that's all we need to do.

3 (23m 14s):
But this of course pissed off a lot of hoaxers.

6 (23m 17s):
We don't know what's going on. We just know it doesn't look right.

3 (23m 21s):
Alex Jones. He was stumped. Lenny had successfully forced the info war site to remove pictures of Noah using copyright.

6 (23m 29s):
So frustrating. This was amazing. The climate is Lenny Posner. They think because they can hold out some little kids and say, we're shutting people's websites down because they're belittling the memory of these children. Nowhere not, but even if we were, you couldn't violate our first amendment because that's what it's there for.

3 (23m 52s):
Then Jones put one of the guys who worked on the movie on the air. His name is Brian. He's from Alabama.

6 (23m 58s):
What do you think of us being censored? What's been happening to you. I can tell you lots about Lenny, that this man is something that you've never seen before. He's got a group of trolls. They're trying to shut us down when we're just investigating it and looking at all sides, it must be horrible for folks out there just specifically, what have you gone through? I can't even put up a video showing that he has put up a copyright strike against me, without him copyrighting striking that these people are filed and Laney, if you're listening your day is coming.

6 (24m 40s):
My friend, it is coming. They made a major mistake. Oh, I totally agree. They don't know what they bid off. Go after him. Alec crush

3 (24m 53s):
In this video on YouTube Jones showed his fans. He had millions of them. Lenny's email the city he lived in and the address he picked up, his mail even held up some satellite shots from Google earth. Lenny got this video taken down to flagging it for privacy violations, but it didn't matter. The hooks are so taken on a mob mentality, pursuing and harassing Lenny. This is an info Wars fan named Lucy Richards who left multiple death threats on Lenny's phone.

7 (25m 20s):
Did you hide your imaginary Spanish attic? Are you still fucking him? You fucking do back there. It's going to die a lot in hell as it's coming to you real soon. And there's nothing you can do about it. So you just have to take it. Okay. Do faster. Look behind you. This is coming to you real soon.

3 (25m 41s):
She said, look behind you. Death is coming to you real soon. Lenny was already living in hiding. He'd moved multiple times by then because hoaxers kept tracking down his address. But now the chances that a hoax there might show up at his door and kill him, suddenly felt much higher. His kids were living with him half the week and he worried about them. At the same time he didn't consider stopping. He didn't think it would make them safer.

1 (26m 6s):
That's one of the misconceptions that exist that people think that I am only targeted because of challenging the content. And that's not the case. I took the action because I was being targeted. So if my address is published all over the internet, my photo was published all over the internet and my living children's photos are published online. That's existed before I did anything. I didn't cause the targeting. It was already there. I was minimizing the targeting.

3 (26m 42s):
He posted receipts firearms. I'd asked if he actually bought them and he wouldn't give me an answer. Amidst. All this Lenny kept up his daily ritual. He'd wake up, make coffee, and then sit in front of his computer for hours. Flagging content, trying to systematically erase Noah from the Sandy hook hook story. There was a lot of stuff. He couldn't invoke copyright law for like the death threats and harassment. That was much harder to get taken down. The tech companies were wary of becoming arbiters of truth, making decisions about what its users could. And couldn't say, but Lenny and his usual methodical fashion kept chipping away on YouTube.

3 (27m 25s):
He kept a scorecard. Once he nailed someone with three copyright strikes, YouTube would remove their accounts. He killed thousands of videos. This way, the hoaxers called this getting partnered. He become a hashtag. Then he and Veronique helped get a professor in Florida named James Tracy fired. This guy had harassed them for years and kept using Noah's image to promote his conspiracy theories. He's also the one who helped popularize the conspiracy term crisis actor on his blog right after the shooting and that woman who was leaving death threats, Lucy Richards, Lenny reported her to the police and they arrested her. She was sentenced to five months in jail. The judge rebuked her for going after Lenny saying, quote, this is a reality and there is no fiction.

3 (28m 8s):
There are no alternative facts. He borrowed her from info Wars and other conspiracy websites is one of the conditions of her parole.

8 (28m 17s):
<inaudible>

3 (28m 20s):
One surprising thing that happened over the years is that some of the hoaxers who used to harass Lenny flipped to his side, there were dozens of them. Lenny says these were people who came to him only after they changed their own minds. Not people who tried to convert. He says that never works. It's a waste of time. Some of them became disenchanted when they saw Sandy hook hoaxers who were more interested in Photoshopping evidence and getting online followers than tracking down the truth. One of them was Doug who worked on that hoaxer movie about Sandy hook in 2016, he found a phone number for Lenny and left a voicemail.

9 (28m 55s):
Hey Lenny Posner. This is dickhead Doug Maguire. If you ever need me, if you ever want to get ahold of me and learn about what all of these people are up to, here's my number. Did you apologize in that message? I don't believe I did

3 (29m 12s):
Not. Surprisingly Lenny didn't return his call. Doug was reaching out to Lenny because the hoaxers had turned on him too. He says he started feuding with some of them after he made a video, exposing a Christian utuber who was making money off false, outrageous claims. All of the social media accounts then got hacked. Lenny was the only person he could think of. Who knew how to fight back. He wanted advice. So he tried him again and got through. He told Lenny that it felt like he'd been sort of brainwashed that he'd been on a roller coaster ride that he wanted to switch sides. And he had started a nonprofit called the honor network where volunteers help families from mass tragedies fight digital harassment. So Doug began helping him scrub content.

3 (29m 54s):
When you were doing it, did you feel like you were doing penance?

9 (29m 57s):
Yeah. Yeah. And my heart is very heavy for this.

3 (30m 6s):
Were you surprised at how quickly Lenny let you in?

9 (30m 14s):
Yeah. And I still am the fact that he even is giving me a chance. I'm very humbled. You know, I tell him, I love him. I tell him that he's like my mentor. Sometimes I call him boss and he says, don't call me boss. So have

3 (30m 34s):
You apologize to other families at Sandy hook?

9 (30m 37s):
No. I think just to try to like call up, you know, one of these families that they don't, they don't need to hear from, you know, some kind of YouTuber guy in Los Angeles. I think like one day I am very sorry. I'm very sorry for her. Any problems to the, to any victims.

3 (31m 17s):
Doug is now one of Lenny's most devoted volunteers. He's got more than a hundred people helping them out at any given time that the burnout rate is high because the work is so intense and hoaxers harass volunteers like Doug all the time for helping Lenny.

9 (31m 31s):
Yeah.

3 (31m 37s):
Google's know his name. Now. He no longer gets page after page of hooks or content. A lot of it is gone now. Instead, the first hits that come up are news articles about Lenny's fight to make the tech companies more accountable for years, he's been criticizing them in the press for not doing more to protect families of mash tragedies from online abuse last summer, he and Veronique called out Mark Zuckerberg and an open letter in the guardian. They wrote quote, you arguably the most powerful man on the planet have deemed that the attacks on us are in material that providing assistance and removing threats is too cumbersome. And that our lives are less important than providing a safe Haven for hate. Shortly after Facebook reached out to Lenny, he started working with our content moderators and policymakers and says their response times are now much faster.

3 (32m 25s):
He also helped turn up the heat on Alex Jones that spring he and Veronique and another dad from Newtown filed defamation lawsuits against him. Other parents followed with their own suit. A few months later, Apple started removing Jones's from iTunes. Same. They would not quote, tolerate hate speech, Facebook, Google, and Spotify then followed suit YouTube killed his channel completely, but you can still find his videos on the platform. And Twitter was one of the last to take action against Jones and info Wars. The New York times reported that getting de platformed cut his online audience nearly in half.

3 (33m 7s):
I met up with Lenny at his place. Recently he lives in a gated high security residence. He was filing copyright and harassment reports to places like Instagram, Pinterest, Reddit, Vimeo, and Twitter. He says, Twitter is as big as headache right now. There's content about Noah. He still can't get down and he gets personally attacked there all the time. He's like he like jumped in this rabbit hole. That is never going to end.

8 (33m 33s):
I don't think I jumped in. I think I just got pulled in.

3 (33m 37s):
You're just constantly subjecting yourself to just so much hateful material.

8 (33m 41s):
Just like throwing trash out. Once it's gone, it feels really good. It really does.

3 (33m 49s):
This is what victory looks like. Taking the trash out every day. He recently spotted one of the hoaxers has been after him, turns out the person lives nearby. Lenny's about to have to move again. This will be the eighth time.

8 (34m 10s):
Yeah.

0 (34m 11s):
Is one of the producers of our show. It's been two years since we first broadcast this story. Just last month, the Texas Supreme court rejected Alex Jones attempt to stop blending and Veronique's lawsuit against him. The lawsuit is going to go forward. Also last month, Alex Jones helped organize the funding to pay for the rally near the white house for Trump supporters on January six, for some of those supporters stormed the U S Capitol coming up. How Alex Jones became Alex Jones, or maybe not that's in minute I'm Chicago public radio. When our program continues this American life Mara glass today's program be where the Jabber walk we've arrived at act two of her program act to Alex in Wonderland.

0 (34m 55s):
So one of the occasional contributors to our program, Jon Ronson actually got to know Alex Jones personally years ago, long before Alex Jones became the most notorious conspiracy theorist in the country. They met doing a story where together they snuck into a summertime enclave of the rich and powerful called Bohemian Grove. They each did their own stories about it. John thought it was pretty harmless, maybe will silly Alex Jones thought it was much more sinister now. And then over the years they would touch base. Then in 2016, John met somebody in Alex's orbit. And that is where this story begins. The man's name was Josh Owens and then October, 2016, he started sending me cryptic texts

10 (35m 38s):
About his boss. A lot of times I'm conflicted with what I'm seeing. Anyway, I won't get into that. His bus was Alex Jones just worked for him as a camera man and a field producer. We exchanged more texts. And then we arranged to meet in a hotel lobby in Washington, DC. And here he was walking in from the street and waving shyly. I was struck by how nervous he looked. He had traveled here to tell me secrets about Alex. And the reason he chose me was because I have known Alex Jones for so long. When I first met and wrote about him 20 years ago, he brought cost info Wars down an ISD N line from a child's bedroom in his house, which was covered in Juju train wallpaper back then the whole operation was him, his producer, Mike and his webmaster executive producer, girlfriend Kelly also known as violent.

3 (36m 37s):
Well, Alex at 26 years old is now syndicated to over 40 commercial markets. So he's huge not to mention that he's on short wave and the internet. He's been number one on AOL, you know, numerous times. But Alex is, is a sensation because he's young. He's vibrant. When so many people are getting involved with this movement through what Alex does.

10 (36m 57s):
This is tape I recorded back in 1999. Filings would eventually become Alex's wife. And then years later, his ex wife in an extremely acrimonious divorce and custody battle during which Alex would at one point stare at her from the dark and tell the court she doesn't have any good qualities.

0 (37m 18s):
You're beautiful. My love is it. My girlfriend, violet, nickel's beautiful and smart. Look at her. Oh at her, she is just incredibly smart. That's the webmaster of info wars.com.

10 (37m 32s):
I followed Alex around for weeks. That year, he was different back then and eccentric fledgling, conspiracy broadcaster. I can't remember him attacking anyone, but the powerful in those days, he wasn't going after victims of school shootings as crisis actors. He didn't assert as he did in 2017 that the yogurt maker Shabani was quote, importing, migrant rapists, who were spreading tuberculosis. He later apologized to Shabani in the face of a lawsuit. He has money now, a workforce of something like 40 employees and a fan in precedent. Trump who's repeated a bunch of theories championed by Alex that Barack Obama is a Muslim who wears a ring with an Arabic inscription.

10 (38m 21s):
The Ted Cruz, his father was linked to the JFK assassination as a bomber and Hillary co-founded ISIS. Alex is playing a role in propagating the misinformation and confusion. That's America was Hillary.

6 (38m 37s):
She is an abject psychopathic demon from hell that as soon as she gets into powers and try to destroy the planet, folks, let me just tell you something. There are dozens of videos and photos of Obama having flies land on him indoors at all times of year. And he'll be next to a hundred people. No one has flies on him. Killary reportedly. I mean, I was told people around her that they think she's even obsessed. Okay? You can't watch that evil off. Man told us a rotten smell around Hillary. I'm not kidding. People say Obama and Hillary both smell like sulfur. They smell like hell.

10 (39m 12s):
Anyway, back to my meeting with Josh,

6 (39m 15s):
I wasn't a big listener of the show.

10 (39m 18s):
He said, working for Alex had been his dream job. He'd actually won an online report contest four years earlier to work for info Wars. He was a young and angry Alex Jones fan back then committed to exposing the shadowy elites. But now he was disillusioned because Alex had changed and a final straw was the Muslims. Alex had likely been broadcasting untrue stories about American Muslims running secret terrorist training camps in the Catskill mountains of New York and cheering the nine 11 attacks here. He is talking to then candidate Donald Trump.

6 (39m 56s):
You are vindicated on the radical Muslim, celebrating, not just to New Jersey, but New York, Palestine all over. What do you have to say? They're still attacking you. Well, I took a lot of heat and I was very strong on it. And I just want to finish by saying your reputation is amazing. I will not let you do.

10 (40m 13s):
Yeah. So Josh had found himself intimately involved in the business of demonizing Muslims. This wasn't why he'd signed up. These weren't powerful elites. They were regular people. Recently, Josh boarded, a plane and sat next to a Muslim family. The little girl was laughing her face pressed to the window, just looked at her and he hated himself. And soon after he began texting me, he wanted to make amends. He said he knew he should quit working for Alex, but it was hard. Alex paid him well. And although he had seen Alex scream at people in the office and punch cabinets and ripped down lines, you don't have to be nice to Josh.

10 (41m 0s):
As we continue to talk, I realized that Josh hadn't come to tell me any specific secrets about Alex. He just wants to vent his frustrations to somebody else who had known him a long time. But then he said, Oh, here's the story. The thing Josh told me then word, if true, totally rewrite the story of how Alex Jones became Alex Jones. First, you should know that Alex has a kind of origin story about what got him obsessed with rooting out conspiracies. He started a few times to the rolling stone journalist Alexander's eye check and drawing monologues on his show.

6 (41m 38s):
When I was like 16 years old and I'd be at parties in would come up a Sheriff's department car and they'd come in and sell bags of drugs to people.

10 (41m 48s):
This took place in the Dallas suburb of Rockwall, where Alex grew up.

6 (41m 52s):
And I went to school when they were having an auditorium meeting about drug testing and something. They had, they had cops up there that I knew were drug dealers. I stood up and I said, I was at a pool party. He was selling cocaine and ecstasy. Last week, they took me in an office, ran my head in the wall, told me we're going to kill you. If you don't shut up. They said, you're going to move out of this town right now, before we moved down here to Austin, because of it.

10 (42m 14s):
Police corruption in Rockwall had opened Alex's eyes to the existence of powerful cabals and exposing them in her become his calling. And it all began at that school assembly. So that's Alex's origin story. But according to Josh, it wasn't true. The true story he said was much more revealing. And it was also a big secret. Josh said, okay, I've heard this story a couple of times from the childhood friends and family members, very few people in the office know it. But when Jones was a teenager, he was a bully. No one liked him because he was a bully.

10 (42m 57s):
There was a group of kids that felt unsafe around him until they came up with a plan to trick him. They invited him out to a party in a barn. It was a trap. Josh said they beat him within an inch of his life. That's why his family moved to Austin, his whole family up rooted him and moved into a completely different city because of this crazy thing that happened to him. Josh said having those guys conspire against Alex by luring him to that party was the real reason he got obsessed with conspiracies. He had been the victim of one, Josh and I partied. Soon after that, I walked around, replaying our conversation and wondering if I should look into it further.

10 (43m 40s):
There were now two Alex Jones, origin stories and Alex's version. He was a brave figure, forced out of town for standing up to corrupt or authority, but injustice. He was an outcast run out of town by fellow high school kids had Alex still been the fringy. Alex of the nineties. I would have left his childhood alone, but he had become an influential figure, spreading chaos. And according to Josh being ambushed at that party was the moment that shaped him, that made him who he was. And so I dug around some more.

11 (44m 17s):
Yeah,

10 (44m 22s):
Really clear, really quickly that Alex's school assembly story did not stand up to scrutiny. My producer, Lena MSCEIT sees, reached 10 people who at the school at the time. And while it's true that the local sheriff had been convicted of stealing marijuana from the police evidence room with a plan to sell it. No one remembered anything like that. Assembly happening, not the students nor the principal or the teachers at one of Alex's old football coaches, Randall tally, who preferred to go by coach Randy.

12 (44m 55s):
Do you remember an assembly where Alex called out the cops in the assembly for being drug traffickers while I didn't know about that. Is that your first time hearing about it? Yes.

10 (45m 8s):
He's a former classmate Ryan.

13 (45m 11s):
No, not at all. That was probably dare the dare program. And I do not remember that at all.

10 (45m 18s):
He's an old school friend, Jacob Olson

12 (45m 23s):
Who tells us that? No, no.

10 (45m 27s):
And Lena found the police officer who actually worked in the school when Alex was there, who presumably would have been one of the drug dealing cops who beat up Alex, his name is Terry Garrett.

13 (45m 41s):
Okay. That sounds like something he probably would say, but I don't think anything like that ever happened. I mean, I, I would be willing to bet my whole pension that, that never happened. I mean, I don't think there were any times where actually we were even, we were questioned a student than an administrator wasn't in the room.

10 (45m 58s):
What everyone does remember about Alex is, well, how memorable he was. We were emailed the same stories over and over from former classmates quote. He used to run through the hall saying he was the devil. This is no joke. And he spoke a lot about being Satan or the antichrist. And you would walk the halls with his arms, flared out with this intense wide-eyed evil look in his eyes. And he proclaimed to be the antichrist, his coach, Randy,

12 (46m 33s):
I'm fixing to tell you something, that's going to blow your mind. He, Oh, golly. People thought he was possessed. Have you heard this? I've heard this from so many students, but this is the first time I've heard it from an adult. Well, he could make his tongue turn black and he would roll his eyes back in his head and he would just sort of shake his head. It was, I don't even know how to describe it. It was so eerie. So you would see him do it. Yeah. I saw him do it in class. And what did you think you were looking at?

12 (47m 14s):
I really didn't know if he had broke a pan or something, you know, to get his tongue and his mouth black or not. He terrorized that high school

10 (47m 23s):
Just run full steam and shove his head into the lockers and scream, you know, hail Satan. This is Ellen. I'll call her Ellen. She didn't want us to use her real name because she texted, I am not afraid of Alex directly, but I am very concerned about retaliation from his followers. Ellen went to middle school and high school with Alex. She didn't remember any party in a barn where Alex got revenge attacked, but she did have lots about the memories of him. Like these

12 (47m 54s):
Sitting in art class with him across the table. He's over there, wringing his hands describing to me in great detail, how he's going to rape me. And I never thought he would actually do that. Just shock factor.

10 (48m 10s):
If Alex hadn't become famous, would you still have remembered Alex?

12 (48m 15s):
Oh yes, definitely. You don't forget people like that.

10 (48m 19s):
Then Alan told me her worst Alex memory,

12 (48m 23s):
The most violent incident was in second period geography, where he bled into one of his closest friends to the point where he was unconscious and bleeding and laying on the floor without Jared <inaudible>.

10 (48m 47s):
So when did you first meet Alex Jones?

11 (48m 50s):
1990. My senior year.

10 (48m 53s):
George real name is Jared. He still lives close to Rockwell in a mobile home in the countryside, even though his mother who was watching us from the kitchen had counseled him to be anonymous. Jared was steadfast. You wanted to be named

11 (49m 9s):
Right off the bat. He was odd, real raw and real strange. We want him around because it was funny at first, you know, do I, but it got worse and worse. And finally, man, we just didn't want him hanging out with him. At all.

10 (49m 24s):
Troward was bewildered that a journalist had contacted him. Nobody had asked him about the day, Alex beat him unconscious. Since high school, it was an argument over a girl.

11 (49m 35s):
I was the dude just kill you. Just go home. He came in behind me and pretty much ran me to the wall and called me a fall off balancing days. Me a bird vision. I couldn't, I could see him, but he picked me up and I just went over and hit first and knocked me out immediately and started nobody when to convulsion us, flipping off the ground. And he just kept stomping on my head and kicking me in the head and kicking me near and my blood, come on, my ears, my nose and everything. He was trying to kill me, you know, point blank, whatever, whatever the excuse is or, you know, yeah. I got seven fractures, this goal and concussion and lost 20% here in my right here.

11 (50m 19s):
I live with headache pretty much all the time. I get pretty bad headaches.

10 (50m 23s):
Joe had said the parents took over after that Alex's father dentist offered to pay Jared's medical bills, including a $10,000 neurologist's bell. But there was a condition

11 (50m 35s):
Y'all just, don't jump on Alex. You know, just, just leave him alone. I'll pay all the bills. So, you know, so I just left him alone.

10 (50m 43s):
Jared said, Alex, his father also gave Jared's parents a book about why it's wrong for people to Sue people. Lots of people. Remember Alex beating Jared up. His coach, Randy broke up the phone.

12 (50m 56s):
Oh golly. Alex had him upside down into the pile. Driver is no, what is it? You literally have the person with his feet up in the air and his head down between your legs and you just dropped to the ground. And first thing that hits is your bed and his head at the same time. Holy shit. Yeah. Holy shit.

10 (51m 26s):
Jared eventually returned to school. And then one night he was at a party. It wasn't in a barn. It was at a house that this was the origin story that Josh, the camera man had taught me. The beating in the countryside. Gerald said the instigators were his friends, Mark and Brian, the two guys who brought him to the party. Did they know that they were taking him somewhere where he might get attacked?

11 (51m 55s):
The other two guys that brought him him, they love fighting there. I thought they did. They fought all the time. They figured it me or somebody would whoop him. You know, they wanted to see it. So they brought him out there and he come in and he's been drinking and just hooping the holler and carried on. Finally, one of my buddies slept in the back of his hat and I I'll try not to even look at him. You know, he thought it was me and here we go, he just pointed me out and just picked me out and said, come on, I'm going to beat your head. Like I did before. You know, he started all that flipping around and flopping around the living room and throwing his coat on his ass. And he was a D you know, the site and then he's going to kill me in.

11 (52m 35s):
Or I had to, you know, it just, it was ridiculous that he was able to, that he did what he did tell me. I had to prove to myself and all my friends, Hey man, it was a fluke deal, man. You know, when I jumped on him, I just, I hit him until I broke both my number, my Anthem, until I couldn't hit him no more. I just reached over and grabbed this rake. You know, it wouldn't handle still. Right. But with nano and I just thought it hit him in the back of the head with it and it knocked him down. And when he come back up running, that's when he ran into my buddy. And that was a mistake, you know? And he got a buddy grabbed it by the year and planted his knee in his face. And he just took off running and I'm like two or three weeks later, they moved.

10 (53m 16s):
So they move because of this fight because the rolling stone article said that he liked her, had uncovered some corruption in the rock wall police force. And that's why they moved.

11 (53m 28s):
Yeah, no, definitely nothing like that. They couldn't go nowhere anymore. And there was nowhere to go. No, nobody hanging out with nobody just couldn't stomach. And you know, so he knew there was nothing left there in Rockwell for him.

10 (53m 44s):
So Josh, the camera man story had turned out to be sort of right, but he's wrong about a couple of things. It wasn't a barn. It was a house. But more importantly, the way Josh told it, the fight was the thing that had made Alex a conspiracy theorist. But Jared said, no, that's not true. He said, Alex always had his theories even before then.

11 (54m 8s):
Yeah. He had something to say about the French principal and the teachers in the, in the school cop. And everybody's, you know, doing all this. If we were at the pool hall, it's, you know, it was the guy that owned the pool hall and he done called the, he doesn't call the DEA and they were setting the deal up weird, man. Everybody's like what?

10 (54m 32s):
Hey guys, I'm sorry. I'm like five minutes late. I was stuck getting back to the office. I got a lot of, a lot of crazy stuff going on. So it's good to be here with you guys. It's a Thursday in February. Alex is talking to me from his studio in Austin. I'm at home in New York. I think the crazy stuff Alex is referring to by the way is that a judge has just ordered him to give a sworn deposition in the court case, brought against him by some Sandy hook parents, Alex had one condition for doing this interview. You wanted to make a brief statement though. My story isn't about Sandy hook. This is what he wants to say. So here's my Shandy hook statement. Looking back before I was ever shooed years ago, I reviewed the information and I do believe the horror of Sandy hook happened by the way, that's only sort of true.

10 (55m 23s):
Even after Alex first admitted, the children died at Sandy hook. He had pitched saying they probably died and I tend to believe they died. I have apologized the families many times in the last few years in my reporting has caused them any pain. These apologies are contentious because he's apologized, but then continued to cast doubt on the shootings. I never shared that anyone should have rash the victim's families. And I asked the media to please stop sharing that. I have shed that as best as we can tell Alex never directly instructed his fans to harass the families. But on his broadcasts, he repeatedly talked about Lenny Posner's ex wife and son, and he gave partner's mailing address and showed Google earth shots of the building and said he would probably have to go there himself.

10 (56m 14s):
I ask anyone else who is going to rush the families to stop what happened at Sandy hook and similar ventures, a tragedy that needs to be recognized it's time for, to come together as Americans

14 (56m 24s):
And as humans and defend the lives of children and other defenseless individuals, period, Alex

10 (56m 32s):
Aligned to answer follow-up questions about Sandy hook. I got to the business at hand.

14 (56m 38s):
Okay. So there's a guy in Rockwall called Jared, but I think you knew him maybe as Bubba. Oh, Oh, I remember Bubba who was a senior and I was like a freshmen coming and getting me on a class and he was like a hall monitor so he could do it. And then he attacked me in the hall. So I defended myself and I'm sad that he got put in Tacoma, but that's just what happened. I've never talked about this stuff and I'm not particularly proud of it, but I always defended myself. I never started fights as different.

10 (57m 7s):
And Jared's version of the way in Jared's account. Alex started the fact also Jared said he wasn't in a coma, but he was hospitalized for multiple skull fractures.

14 (57m 19s):
Jared said that he thought that you were trying to kill him. Well, when a 250 pound, he would be a self described redneck and you weigh 160 pounds. It starts attacking you. You defend yourself. So, so the way it works in America is when someone physically attacks you and you defend yourself. You're not the bad guy.

10 (57m 44s):
Alex does confirm parts of Jared's story. He remembers his father paying the medical bills that he doesn't recall a book about why it's wrong for people to Sue people.

14 (57m 55s):
I felt real bad. My dad wouldn't visit him at the hospital. I mean, we weren't happy about it. And I mean, th that's the story you've got. What about the time? I mean, you didn't hear about the time like 20 people attack me. Well, the other story I heard was you were at a party and some of Jared's friends attacked you. Is it? So is that the, is that the story that you mean? And, and no, that never happened. So what supposedly happened at that, the story I heard is this, it all started with Jared, with the geography, and then you were at a party suburb. Jared

10 (58m 35s):
Told Alex everything Jared had said about the ambush.

14 (58m 39s):
And that's why you left town was because of that party. That that's the story there. Total, total complete horse crap, total Shakespeare infection. So what happened is I wasn't that big of a guy and everybody would start fights with me. I mean, this is just total fiction, totally made up. You didn't hear the part where the captain of the football team attacked me in the lunch room. And I literally took on the entire senior football team. You know, I did not hear that. That was an Epic fight. That was like Hercules. It was like pop, pop, pop out. It was just like, it was the greatest trip of my life. I mean, I

10 (59m 17s):
Later we talked to Alex's old friend, Jacob, and one of the football players and coach Randy, and no one remembers it this way. Best Jacob said, Alex fought off two or three football players, which is actually still quite impressive.

14 (59m 34s):
And then like the whole football team, the whole senior team charges me like a phalanx. And I just pow, I mean, it was just like, it was the best. So I thought you were actually getting to that story. No poor Bubba starting to fight with me. That was a minor conquest. I'll tell you what a bubble wants to charity. Get in the ring with me today. I'll do it. These big, old, tough guy let's get in the ring right now. Well, he said he has to be very careful with this scope while he physically attacked me like Ronson. If I came up and punched you in the face, would you have a right to defend yourself? I would have a right to defend myself. I think it's unlikely that I would defend myself because here's the thing, John, did I ever punched you in the face?

14 (1h 0m 16s):
You've never punched me. Alex. Was I ever threatening physically to you? No, NEFA, let's be honest. Have I not been a big old sweet seen Teddy bird? It's true. On a personal level,

10 (1h 0m 31s):
Alex is adamant that the party did not happen, but we confirmed that. It did. We talked to two people besides Jared, who said that they were there. One is named Marty bottoms. He says he personally attacked Alex. The other is Mark Milton. When he phoned my producer, Lena, she was asleep. He was on his tractor. Bellina recorded it as best as she could.

15 (1h 0m 55s):
I'm probably going to lose you when I dropped down this cap rock girl. But yeah, there's more give her mills.

10 (1h 1m 0s):
Mark said he remembered Alex beating Jared unconscious in geography. And then he said this,

15 (1h 1m 7s):
Well, you all ended up going to a party. And then some of others' friends jumped in that night. This was at a party after Alex beat up. Yeah, this was at Marc glossary's house out there and McLendon Chisholm. He said he moved to Austin after that party. Yeah. They sold the condo over in Lakeside village and he couldn't take it from him being jumped by a couple of boys. It was above his friends and he had moved out of the deal.

10 (1h 1m 32s):
This is the story. Josh had told me in the hotel lobby. Jared told me it's the story. Alex swears is untrue. Alex's family. Wouldn't talk to us. So I can't say exactly why they finally moved out of Rockwell in our interview, Alex retold the story of the school assembly. But he also named other reasons for their move. Like how was Austin born? Mother was homesick and fed up with all the fighting in the end. What seems clear is that this fight happened and the assembly where Alex AltEd the drug dealing cops probably never did.

14 (1h 2m 15s):
If I had to

10 (1h 2m 16s):
Guess, I would say that Alex has replaced a true story where he's humiliated at a party with a different story where he's a hero standing up to corrupt cops and getting beaten up for his bravery in a way it's the same story as the one where the whole football team came at him in Alex is the character he plays on info Wars. The beleaguered hero attacked from all sides, bloodied, but undaunted and emerging. The Victor it's like stories. Little kids tell about themselves. Alex disputes. Most of the other things that people told me about him, he says he did not pretend to be the antichrist in high school.

10 (1h 3m 1s):
He says he didn't roll his eyes back in his head or dye his tongue black. He says he never told a classmate. Or we would like to rape her. He calls all of that insane garbage. He says he doesn't punch cabinets or rip down blinds in the office. During our reporting. Something very strange kept happening. It happened during Lena's call with Mark, the track two man Mark's daughter. Chelsea was listening on mute as he was telling Lina how he knew for certain that the police assembly story was a lie just then Chelsea unmeeted herself and said to her father,

12 (1h 3m 45s):
Nobody knows what he found out about the cop. So you can't speak and say all the reasons why he left Rob, because he might've found out stuff that you didn't even know about.

10 (1h 3m 56s):
It kept happening. All these people who knew for sure that Alex had been a liar back in Rockwell. A lot of them believe that what he says on info Wars might be true. They have a reference for him like coach Randy.

12 (1h 4m 10s):
I agree with so many things. A lot of people just think it, Alex goes ahead and says it,

10 (1h 4m 17s):
But not Jared. Actually, Jared had somehow gone through life. Not realizing that Alex was a radio host. And when I bought it up, it was awkward. No, who's, who's a fan of his now Donald Trump, Donald Trump's been on his show. He talks about what a great reputation Alex has. I could tell that Jared didn't want to hear the president. Trump was an Alex fan. He gave me a look to say, are you fake news? Well, the media and stuff, ideas. I don't know. I mean, I don't know what, I don't know. I wouldn't, I don't know what, believe it or not. You know, he likes and they like each other.

10 (1h 4m 58s):
Yeah. It's like all of that craziness that happened at Rockwell high school, Alex, I'm making stuff up and you know, now Donald Trump's a fan. The fact is he's carried on saying all of these crazy things, but it's no longer about the school or the pool hall. Now it's the globalist

0 (1h 5m 19s):
And the Muslims, people believe him now, including the precedent.

11 (1h 5m 24s):
I mean, I mean, who's to say, I mean, I mean some of the stuff he says could be true. It could be, I mean, Obama, it could be about Muslim. He could back the mud, the radical Muslims. And he could have been giving them money. I mean, who knows? You know, we don't know. I mean, we hear what they want us to hear and we see what they want us to see. You know? I mean, anything could be anything, you know,

8 (1h 5m 52s):
More than anyone might've been stood. The Alex doesn't always tell the truth, but no, this is Alex's legacy. The chaos he sows in the world, the feeling that nothing can be known for sure. John Ronson,

0 (1h 6m 13s):
He and his producer, Lena Missy's originally created a version of this story for audible, where they also did. John's audible original. The last days of August, a deep dive into the never before told story of what caused the untimely death of 23 year old porn star, August Ames it's available on audible or wherever you get your podcasts. Audible is the world's largest producer and provider of downloadable audio books, and other spoken word entertainment.

8 (1h 6m 37s):
<inaudible>

0 (1h 6m 54s):
The program is produced today by Dana. Chivez the people who put our show together today includes Ben Calhoun, Sean Cola, Viva Kornfeld, Damien grave, Michelle Harris, Makey, meek Stowe Nelson, Catherine Mae Mondo, Ben Fagan, Natty, Raymond Robin semiannually Sullivan, Christopher. So Tava Matt Tierney, Julia Whitaker, and Diane Wu additional production help on today's rerun from Ari Safferstein I'm managing editor for today's program is David Kestenbaum, especially thanks today to San Diego, Lonnie Phillips Whitney Phillips, Dr. Kenneth Henderson, Joe Ronson, Elizabeth scholar, David bloom, Jonathan Curlin, Sophia Hilsman and Eric Newsome, our website, this American life.org. This American life is delivered to public radio stations by PRX, the public radio exchange. Thanks as always to our programs. Co-founder Mr.

0 (1h 7m 34s):
<inaudible>. You know, he recently tried Axe, body spray. You know that stuff. He didn't like it. You can't wash that evil off, man. I'm Eric Glass back next week with more stories of this American,

8 (1h 7m 45s):
My <inaudible>

0 (1h 8m 6s):
Next week on the podcast of this American life, it was a drawing of an octopus that a kid drew that somehow, and it became a thing. And this third grade class kids go look at it on the wall. They'd talk about it was it,

16 (1h 8m 20s):
It was like an eight year olds. Okay. Drawing. Wasn't amazing. But it was like, you knew what it was and then

0 (1h 8m 29s):
You disappeared and they held a funeral for it. And that's when things got bigger next week on the podcast. When you local public radio station,