0 (0s):
Support for this American life comes from good RX while he can't avoid allergy season, you can at least save on your prescriptions with good RX. You can compare prescription prices at over 70,000 pharmacies and find discounts up to 80%. For simple smart savings. Go to good rx.com/ <inaudible>. That's good rx.com/tal good RX is not insurance, but can be used instead of insurance, Medicare and Medicaid in 2021. Good RX users saved 81% on retail prescription prices. A quick warning. There are curse words that are unbanked in today's episode of the show. If you prefer a beeped version, you can find that at our website, this American life.org, David, to what problem was this supposed to solve?

0 (47s):
The teachers were trying to get the kids to stop tattling. And why was that so important? Because it's a pre-K classroom and it's constant there, right? I should say, by the way that you are David Kestenbaum, you are one of our producers, our senior editor right now, and, and this classroom is your kid's classroom, right? Yeah. Both of them went there. I still don't get, like, it seems like kids tattling on each other. It's just a fact of pre-K. It is, but you got 20 something kids. I mean, you know, it's hard being one parent with two kids doing it. Imagine you're in a classroom with like 20 kids. And if they bring it to you as a teacher, all these little injustices, you got to get like involved in all these cases, you know? Right. And it's just a time suck. Yeah. It's just a time suck. And so, so one of the teachers had this great idea.

0 (1m 30s):
She took a tissue box, hung it on the wall and then took this plastic phone receiver and hung it in it and said something like that's the tattle phone, tell it to the phone. And I thought it was just brilliant. And I just want to say, this is a place that loves kids. I would go to pick up my son max, and I would have to wait because he would want to hug every single teacher. And I go to get Augie our older kid. And he would be like, I need five minutes. I'm in the middle of something. Like, they're just going to stay longer. I mean, I get choked up thinking about this place. And I love the idea of the tattle phone, just as like, as a vessel for all the little injustices that go on every day. And I wanted to hear what was said into it, like these little three year olds, four year olds talking into this plastic phone.

0 (2m 14s):
Okay. And I should say, this is the part of the story I knew very well. What happens now we asked if we could put a phone in the classroom that would record the titles. The daycare was fine with that. I reached out to the parents. I didn't know how they were going to feel about us recording their kids at like the worst moment of the day. But every single one of them said, yes, some of them said, please, yes, do this. So we got a phone. It was this chunky red phone, kind of like 1980 style. We had it set up to record and we needed an outgoing message for it. And, and that is where I stepped in. You've reached the turtle phone. Okay. Tell me what happened after the beep. Tell me the whole story. I really hope to make some inroads in that four year old market.

0 (2m 56s):
I really hope that helps our ratings. And so what we're going do now, David, is that you're going to explain what you heard on those recordings on the title phone. And when you're done, I'm going to come back and I'll explain what today's show is about. Okay. So I brought the fund into class and I set it up and the kids started to use it immediately. And with great enthusiasm,

2 (3m 21s):
Shame is sharing with me. And I don't like am very upset. <inaudible>

0 (3m 33s):
Catch that one. Nathan farted in my face. And I said, yuck, Nathan, but the real crime I think there was enormous excitement. Just having a phone in the class. It was larger than they'd probably ever seen in their lives. Bright red with buttons on it. It was an old touch-tone phone. Everyone wanted to use it. Even if they didn't have a tattle, kids sang a song into it. One tried to order a pizza. Someone said, hi mom, please pick me up early.

2 (4m 5s):
Our baby turned into it and I don't know how <inaudible> ducky. And that's why her <inaudible> a baby. Ah, sorry. I need to hang up on you for one second.

0 (4m 24s):
Several calls later. Conscience, heavy. That kid calls back.

2 (4m 28s):
I'm sorry. I had to hang up on you. I'm just sorry.

0 (4m 38s):
The title phone was like a magic portal into one preschool classroom in America, which is kind of incredible. Like most parents I'll ask my kids what happened in school today and they get nothing. School is like this black box. You drop them off, pick them up and you have no idea what happens in between. But now I had this phone, it was set up. So it sends me the messages as they happened. It was funny listening to them from my desk. The portal into this classroom would open for a second. I get this little report from a kid here, a little sound of the room, and then it would close sometimes for awhile. Then the portal would open. I'd hear something and then silence again. There are never any titles between one and three o'clock because that was nap time.

0 (5m 21s):
Then they'd start again. These little dramas.

2 (5m 24s):
Ramon is not listening to my teacher, Mr. Evan, but he's my favorite teacher. And I know, I know he's not moved by. I don't want him to be so I'm trying my best to listen. My friends, not me,

0 (5m 42s):
My friend, Simone, it's always their friends who are bugging them.

2 (5m 45s):
My friend Jack was in my face. All I was waiting to go to an area that made me really upset. <inaudible> when I'm playing family thing, your weight sleep pretense. Please.

0 (6m 10s):
Can I just say, I'm not sure that one is actionable. You're pretending to sleep and complaining that someone is waking you up. I don't know.

2 (6m 18s):
People are not sharing the towel phone.

0 (6m 23s):
How much of their day is about like justice?

4 (6m 27s):
Ugh.

5 (6m 30s):
I couldn't put a, put a percentage on it, but I could say the majority of the day,

0 (6m 39s):
This is Kathleen Jones. The lead teacher in the class

5 (6m 42s):
Is everything is and rules. They live by rules. They can sit down to play a game and the whole playtime will be nothing but arguing about the rules. And then there's no playtime left and they feel good about it.

0 (7m 2s):
It's funny. Like they can't make breakfast for themselves. They can't get dressed. They can barely talk. And, and they're, they're just full of, that's not fair,

5 (7m 14s):
But they're dynamos every one of them has something that it's. Yes, exactly. It's awesome. They're wonderful.

0 (7m 23s):
There's actual scientific research on this. Kids know when something's unfair some, when they're just 12 months old, my kids weren't even walking them. And I know this is kind of obvious, but so many of the conflicts in this world come down to some version of what's going on in this classroom. What's fair. How do you divide up something that there's a limited quantity of?

5 (7m 44s):
You know, tiles? We only have one acrylic, one that's yellow-ish gold-ish. That is it. That is the prize in the class. Whoever gets that. And he's like, I'm the king or the queen and ha the gold. That's what they call it. The gold.

0 (8m 2s):
I sometimes think that the main usefulness of numbers for my son, max, how reason he knows how to count is score-keeping how many of something he has and how many his brother has. It's a weighing of the scales of justice, no matter how tiny. So did it work for you? Like did they stop coming to you with their complaints?

5 (8m 30s):
Yes, it does. It does work. Yes. That phone holds a lot of power.

0 (8m 36s):
I gave the teachers the break they were looking for. I wanted to see if the kids thought it worked, whether the tattle phone helped them deal with stuff. So the other weekend I interviewed a bunch of them, which I have to say these were some of the weirder interviews I've done in my professional life. Bob Woodward. I know this isn't right, but I had to pay one interviewee, a piece of gum, another kid, Nicki insisted on performing magic tricks before granting an interview. I did not have high expectations. Wait, that worked really well. Wait, that was actually amazing. That was good. Nikki then refused to talk about the phone at all, but others clearly use it a lot.

2 (9m 20s):
You had to tell the title, phone, the whole story. What happened?

0 (9m 27s):
That's Gabriel. This is denia

2 (9m 30s):
Tell me the whole story. That's all I can remember.

0 (9m 34s):
One girl's parents told me that they were on vacation, staying at a hotel, which of course had a landline phone. And their daughter Simone said, look, a tattle phone is if there was some sort of national tattle phone network staffed around the clock by government workers, entering everything into a database. My friend's kid, Sean, who just turned five and who I adore was the only one who could remember a title worthy event from school in any detail. He whispered it to me. He was clearly kind of excited about this. His friend had kicked him.

7 (10m 9s):
He kicked you in the penis. Did you tell the tattle phone? Oh, you didn't have to title thought if you had the peddle phone, what you've told it? Yeah,

0 (10m 25s):
It sounds like it might've been an accident. Sean stood up and acted out the whole thing in slow motion for me. Like it was a scene from an action movie, right? His friend was trying to kick the ceiling. They should have a security camera in the classroom.

2 (10m 45s):
Put data

0 (10m 46s):
Right down. Just to telephone. A bunch of kids told me they felt good. After talking to the title phone though, the why it made them feel better. It took all my interviewing skills. This is Gabriel. How did you like having the title phone in the classroom? How did it feel after you said something to the title phone? How come you felt good?

2 (11m 14s):
Because, well, I felt good because I told them the person

0 (11m 24s):
One girl told me talking to the tattle phone felt like eating ice cream. It's nice to think that just getting something off your chest can solve a problem. That if you just released the fact of the injustice into the world, you feel better. And sure. I think that can be true. But we had the phone in class for a month and I did notice toward the end, we got fewer messages. They came in regularly, but not with the same energy it's possible. The novelty was wearing off. I think there's something else going on as well. Before we put the phone in the class, I had it set up in my house just to make sure it was working.

0 (12m 6s):
My kids used it a couple of times. And then our younger son max was complaining that his brother Augie, who a year older and pinched him, tell it to the title phone. I said, it's not working. He told me I pick the phone up where there's some technical glitch, but it's fine. It's working max. No, he said it's not,

2 (12m 27s):
It did not do anything at the debate. Even in work to me, it doesn't even do anything.

0 (12m 33s):
It listened to your title

2 (12m 35s):
Now, what

0 (12m 37s):
Do you mean? It listened?

2 (12m 39s):
It, it didn't, it didn't strap on keep pinching me.

0 (12m 44s):
It didn't stop Auggie pinching me. I know max. I know sometimes you want more than just to speak. You want actual justice. Thank you, David. You're welcome. And that brings us to like, what are we 12 minutes into the program. It brings us to what we're doing today on our show today, we have people, some of them young, some of them old wanting justice, feeling a sense of injustice on things as big as the constitutional foundation of our entire country and things as small as the question of whether a ball is in or out. And in all those cases, people young and old, not trusting the system to deliver justice, WBZ, Chicago, it's this American life stay with us.

0 (13m 50s):
Hoop dreams. So the journalist Michael Lewis, who wrote Moneyball and the big short and Liar's poker and lots of other books and who contributes to our program now. And then he was looking around at what is going on in America these days. And he noticed that one way you can describe the current moment that we're all living through is that Americans don't trust the rafts in all walks of life. They don't trust their impartiality. I'm talking about Supreme court, justices, police journalists, the people who regulate banks and wall street and student loans to people who said medical costs. So many people today for the system is rigged. Number 2016, Bernie Sanders and Donald Trump both ran on that. So many people feel that the figures of authority who are charged with enforcing rules, impartially keeping everybody on a level playing field that they're failing at their jobs.

0 (14m 38s):
It's not fair. So Michael did a bunch of reporting on this and made it into a podcast called against the rules. And we first broadcast today's program. Back when that series launched a couple of years ago, today's program is rerun back then Michael adapted version of their first episode for us. It's about people not trusting the reps in the most literal sense of that. It's about basketball. Referees. Here's my glues

9 (15m 4s):
For me. This story really begins with my 11 year old son Walker. He plays on a basketball team, run by a Japanese Buddhist temple. My son isn't a Buddhist that most of the time he could pass for one. He has no conflict with his teachers or his classmates or his Japanese Buddhist teammates. I wouldn't say his mind is exactly pure, but usually it's calm. The exception is when he deals with refs, even in what amounts to a Buddhist basketball game, anytime a ref blows the whistle on him. He throws up his arms and astonishment and he jumps up and down with his little fist balled up in his mouth, clenched tight. So everyone knows just how much injustice he's suffering.

9 (15m 45s):
Then he marches off with a scowl and he doesn't get over it. After a game. This season, he gets into the car and starts bitching and moaning all over again. How did it make you feel when the ref made those calls? Do you feel any better now?

2 (16m 1s):
No.

9 (16m 3s):
Tell me how it feels.

2 (16m 6s):
Feels like someone keeps poking you in the back of the shoulder and then saying foul, foul, foul, foul.

9 (16m 15s):
Have you ever found out in your career?

2 (16m 17s):
No.

9 (16m 18s):
Did you know that you were at risk of failing out?

2 (16m 20s):
Yes, but I also knew if I did, it would be unfair because I knew that he was calling the stupidest fouls. He'll he'll look back and say, oh, I was being a huge asshole,

10 (16m 34s):
Play with a steel plate in a foot race. Cause he trying to catch him. He can play with a very deep gray.

9 (16m 41s):
The thing is, I know why my son does what he does. He thinks he's clay Thompson, the all-star shooting guard of the golden state warrior.

10 (16m 50s):
They reset back to Thompson

9 (16m 53s):
When clay hits a three clay pounds, his chest and points to the sky. And so when Walker Lewis hits a three, he two pounds, his chest and points to the sky.

10 (17m 4s):
And I think we had a technical foul as well. Play very unusual

9 (17m 11s):
When Clay's called for a foul, he scowls and throws up his arms and astonishment. And sometimes even says something to the ref that gets him slapped with a technical foul.

10 (17m 21s):
You only had one during the entire regular season

9 (17m 25s):
And Clay's the famously most laid back all star in the entire national basketball association.

11 (17m 32s):
Something has happened in the relationship between referees and players over the last, I guess, year or two

9 (17m 38s):
That's Ramona Shelburne. She's covered the NBA for the last decade for ESPN.

11 (17m 42s):
It's been quite frankly ugly this year.

9 (17m 45s):
One of the warriors headbutted a RAF, another Chuck is disgusting. Mouth guard off a ref chest

11 (17m 56s):
And some of the stuff I've seen, I mean, when Draymond green is, is getting fined for calling Lauren a whole cap. And can we cuss on your podcast?

9 (18m 4s):
I think we already have,

11 (18m 5s):
You know, a fucking bitch like, like when, when he is saying that to a female referee, man, that's next level. And I haven't seen that before at this season. It's the stars now who are really pushing the issue, right? It's Kevin Duran getting thrown out of games. It's Steph Curry getting thrown out

9 (18m 34s):
Last year, bad behavior got various golden state warriors tossed out of 10 different basketball games. Kevin Duran, their best player got thrown out of five, four more than he'd been thrown out of his entire career. Up to that point. The men who coached the stars aren't much better. Even Steve Kerr, the Warrior's famously decent civic-minded coach.

12 (18m 55s):
I can snap. I can completely lose it.

9 (18m 59s):
If you back away from the golden state warriors, I mean they're exemplars of the way people should behave. The, especially your stars is like impeccably behaved people. I'm so pleased to have my son emulating your players. The only time they have problems really is with referees. I can't imagine you in your life have another relationship like you have with wrestling.

12 (19m 22s):
No, you're right. You're right. I would never say the things that I do to referees, to a person in normal life. It happens two or three times a year and I've been caught on camera. You know, MF being a ref. And you know, my daughter will send me a text like dad, what are you doing? It's all over Twitter. I can read your lips. This is embarrassing. And I'm embarrassed. So why is that? You know, it's a sense of right or wrong, you know? And I feel like there's like this personal offense, like something unfair is happening.

9 (19m 58s):
The players get fined if they talk about the rest. So we won't be talking to them, but it's not just them or their coaches or my son who are treating refs in ways. They'd never treat an ordinary person. It's the fans in every arena who spend meaningful amounts of their time, looking for the refs mistakes on the jumbotron. It's the cable sports channels playing and replaying the refs mistakes. So their viewers can tweet and retweet about them. It's this entire infrastructure seemingly built to focus attention on whatever mistakes the refs may for the sole purpose of generating outrage. There's one thing that unites Americans just now it's their belief that the ref suck, which is weird because they almost certainly suck less than ever before.

9 (20m 47s):
Before you hate me for saying that, give me a moment to show why. So we're walking across a parking lot. It's a caucus, New Jersey and they're chain, hotel and motels in someone's idea of a mall. And we're surrounded on all sides by freeways. It's like what people think about when they tell jokes about New Jersey, Abel approaching a four story rectangular, otherwise nondescript concrete building. There's a discreet little sign here that says NBA and shows a logo with a basketball player inside a recent concession to the world.

9 (21m 29s):
We live in the replay center, a place where basketball referees review the calls made by other basketball referees in real time to minimize referee error, the replay center was built to persuade people that life was fair

14 (21m 49s):
And the door is locked. All right. Now,

9 (21m 53s):
No someone eventually unlocks the door and leads me down. A hall filled with a lot of old basketball stuff, jerseys and bobbleheads and basketballs and posters of Michael Jordan. The replay center was the ultimate man cave,

13 (22m 6s):
Man cave.

9 (22m 7s):
It's also the latest weapon in the battle for fairness. So this place just on first view is amazing. It really is it's wall to wall screens, 110 of them. What's on them is whatever is captured by all the cameras in 29, NBA arenas across the country. They may have a screen somewhere with scores on it, but I didn't see it. And they're all muted. What you hear is referees staring at basketball games, which you see is nothing but anglers on professional basketball court.

13 (22m 37s):
Nobody's ever walked in here and walked down and said, this probably sucks.

9 (22m 40s):
That's Joe Borgia. Who's run the center since 2014, before he volunteered for Secaucus duty. He refereed NBA games. His father was an NBA ref before him with a break in the late sixties. Borgia has been reffing professional basketball games since 1946. If you went back to the, your dad at the beginning of his career and said, this is what it's gonna look like, what do you think you'd have said?

13 (23m 6s):
If I told them we would have replay, he turned over in his grave, forget about a replay center. Oh, absolutely.

9 (23m 12s):
You see the refuse to insist on their authority. And everyone agreed that there was no better way to ensure the fairness of the game than to let the ref play God. The replay center is an admission. The ref is not God that he makes mistakes.

13 (23m 26s):
I think the mention of replay, none of us liked it when we first heard it, it's a necessary evil it's necessary. You have to have it today.

9 (23m 36s):
Yeah. Everything's taped. Now everyone pays more attention to the referee's mistakes. So the NBA has to as well. Now when a ref thinks he screwed up some call or didn't get a good look at the action.

13 (23m 49s):
Watch the referee on the bottom of the screen.

9 (23m 50s):
He twirls his fingers in the air.

13 (23m 52s):
There you're sick.

9 (23m 54s):
That's the signal to the ref and the replay center who goes to work, reviewing the tape, looking for the best angle to figure out what actually happened.

15 (24m 2s):
Sure. Duke, we're going to give you two good angles. All right. That's the first one. The other, one's going to give you a better look.

9 (24m 8s):
The refs here, sit dressed in black, staring at screens, waiting for a signal from somewhere in America. The end of games is when they get most involved because that's when fans and coaches and players are most likely to accuse some ref of having made the mistake that changed the outcome. Of course, a mistake at the beginning has just as much effect on a game as a mistake at the end. But the end is what people notice and get outraged about. So the justice at the end of the game must be more exact than it is at the beginning. These replay center refs have video technicians with them who can freeze a moment on screen, then zoom out or zoom in so that the entire screen contains only a player, his fingertips or his toes here.

9 (24m 53s):
You just scroll through tiny slivers of the game, not the game itself. The sliver is where injustices might occur.

13 (24m 60s):
I mean, goodness gracious. If you don't have slow motion in here at freeze frame, that's very difficult. One

9 (25m 5s):
Of course in slow motion, you can see things that the naked eye Mrs. Magicians sometimes perform during halftimes of the NBA games. When Joe bore just slows it down, he can see how they do their tricks. It's kind of the same thing with the players.

13 (25m 19s):
Exactly. I can go with 60th of a second at a time that you're going to pick a lot of little things

9 (25m 24s):
Players are getting good at is creating optical illusions. And then this sort of things in a magician

13 (25m 29s):
Does isn't flopping and optical illusion

9 (25m 32s):
Flopping is what they call it. When a player pretends to have been knocked over by another player, tricking the rafts into making bad calls is now considered a skill

13 (25m 42s):
For possible Flager

9 (25m 44s):
There's blood on the screens. Kevin Love's front tooth got knocked in love, plays for the Cleveland Cavaliers. And the question is, did the guy who popped him in the mouth do it intentionally.

13 (25m 55s):
We're looking for the unnatural. Did he throw his elbow out?

9 (25m 58s):
The rest needed? Decide if the violence was not just excessive, but unsportsmanlike, which sounds archaic because we sorta lost the concept. So the factory,

13 (26m 8s):
The foul was on Kevin luck. I thought he was outside. I was moved. He was moved to this lake. Come on, you gotta be quick on days, stuck on the blood coming out of his mouth. Yeah, it's ugly.

9 (26m 18s):
The players all stand around, scratching themselves while the rest put on headsets and talk to the replay center,

13 (26m 24s):
The blood doesn't sweat the decision. Listen, it was a lot of contacts. A lot of it's accidental that was accident.

9 (26m 31s):
The only thing stopping the replay center from checking every decision is that it slows the game down here in Secaucus is still trying to figure out how they might talk to the rafts as they run up and down the court. Because if they do that, they could just fix every call on the fly.

13 (26m 46s):
The special forces we found that we actually use a chip over the molar that worked off the vibration of the bone. Believe it or not, we that we, we got a handful of G league referees molded, and we tested that to

14 (27m 1s):
Where a chip over their

13 (27m 2s):
Moment, but it wasn't good enough because they didn't know where the voice was coming from.

14 (27m 10s):
It was just a voice in their heads.

13 (27m 12s):
And then aware of what it was that a coach talking to.

9 (27m 15s):
It's insane, the time and money now being spent to ensure the fairness of what after all is just a basketball game, a jillion miles of fiber optic cable connect this room directly to the NBA, arenas around the country. All for two calls, a game

13 (27m 30s):
At two calls, again, $15 million to build this road to get to close right again, but you gotta do it. You gotta do.

9 (27m 39s):
Can I just pause here a moment just to consider what the NBA has done in the past few years to improve the calls. For example, they brought in serious managers to hire and train the refs. Joe Borgia calls his boss the general because she actually was a general and an air force pilot. Her name is Michelle Johnson. And before she supervised NBA refs, she ran the air force academy. It sounds like overkill to use a general to make sure a basketball games are well raft, but the NBA thought it needed overkill. So adjust your mic a little bit, or at least Adam silver, the NBA commissioner did.

16 (28m 14s):
If people don't believe that the league office is unbiased and that the officials are on unbiased, you're going to have a problem. Regardless of the accuracy of the calls,

9 (28m 24s):
People watching at home are scrutinizing every call on their phones and their TVs. They had just enough information to be suspicious of the league.

16 (28m 32s):
There's 18 cameras covering every game that there's 18,000 people watching games with sophisticated smartphones that have high definition, audio and video. We started to get into trouble.

9 (28m 45s):
Silver took over in 2014 and also hired Joe Borgia to run the replay center. Since then he's taken a ridiculous amount of grief just for trying to improve the justice on a basketball court. So here's what else Silver's done. He's broaden the pool of people from which refs are selected. They used to be mostly white men, mostly from the same background. At 1.4, NBA refs came from the same high school he's hired more black rafts and female rafts. He's insisted that referees be physically fit so they can get into position to see all the plays while everyone else in America is getting fat or the rest are getting buff. They're also not getting new feedback on all their bad calls.

9 (29m 28s):
Silver decided to publish the mistakes made by every ref in the last two minutes of every game. So everyone could see them. He gives the teams and the rest, a private document listing every refereeing mistake. All this new data on refs means that we, and they know all sorts of strange things about their minds. For instance, we now know that their calls have tended to favor whichever team's losing their calls. Also favor the home team. Some large part of home court advantage is just the refs. The analytics department of the Houston rockets has even done a study that shows that the home team that gets the best calls is the Utah jazz. Why Utah, who knows, but you can be sure that someone will figure that out.

9 (30m 9s):
There's now basically a small army of geeks analyzing all this new data.

17 (30m 13s):
Well, I don't really like writing papers about sports federal, other than about the economy.

9 (30m 18s):
That's Justin, Wolfers a behavioral economist at the university of Michigan and the co-author of a paper about NBA refs.

17 (30m 24s):
But the thing is, this is a domain where the NBA referees have tremendous incentives not to make the wrong call. Every era they make is tracked. Those areas, determine whether they get more games, those games determine how much they get paid. This is arguably the most analyzed workforce in the country.

9 (30m 43s):
Basketball referees are now picked apart in ways that not long ago, would've seen preposterous, not just for the fairness of their calls, but for their unconscious behavior. Wolfers took data from over a decade of NBA basketball games, more than 250,000 of them. Then he set out to look for evidence of the refs racial bias.

17 (31m 3s):
The question here isn't whether people are anti-black or anti white, but when there's an in-group bias. So if, if a predominantly black team is playing and the referring crew is predominantly white, are they more foul is called against them. Then on nights, when the same team is playing with a predominantly black referring crew and it sends out the answer's yes,

9 (31m 26s):
Wolfers wrote his paper back in 2007 before this new age of referee transparency.

17 (31m 32s):
Well, it was a bit of a lesson for me. You can probably tell by my accent, Michael, I'm an Australian. You know, I thought it was an interesting piece of social science. It turned out the, the New York times put it on the front page

9 (31m 43s):
And the NBA. Wasn't happy the commissioner at the time, attack the study and embarrass the league by trying and failing to refute its findings.

18 (31m 52s):
This morning, we'll hear from the NBA commissioner, David stern,

19 (31m 55s):
Our referees are the most reviewed, most ranked and most rated. And that's why we take exception to what the times did here.

9 (32m 3s):
That's stern on NPR in 2007, the result of all this coverage, every single referee was made aware of his unconscious bias. When the dust settled, Justin Wolfers was curious to know if his paper it had any effect. He made another study of referees after the controversy he'd created. Then guess what

17 (32m 23s):
The most recent study that we did seems to suggest that that form of racial bias has gone away

9 (32m 28s):
For a while. Anyway, he has no idea why maybe simply making the refs aware of the problem was enough to correct it by the way, the NBA dispute to this study too. But the end, this became a case study, not in ref ineptitude, but in ref reform NBA refs have now achieved with police. Forces can only dream of though the rafts have no choice. The world's now too good at seeing their mistakes. Look, there's no way any basketball referee is going to be perfect, but there's also no way these refs are anything but more accurate than they've ever been.

9 (33m 8s):
I mean, even home court advantage means less than it used to. And yet these reps are treated as if they're trying to rig the games. Just the sound of those 18,000 people screaming at you or booing you. Does this sound any different than it sounded when you started?

12 (33m 30s):
Yeah, there's, there's a little more anger involved and you know, it used to be sorta of the garden variety. You're terrible. You suck any of those kinds of terms.

9 (33m 40s):
That's Mani McCutcheon who started reffing in 1993. And so got to see firsthand the effect that the arrival of the internet has had on referees

12 (33m 49s):
A few years back, a Twitter exploded in game five of the Miami heat in Oklahoma city, thunder finals from years ago,

9 (33m 59s):
One of the players hit a three point shot. McCutchen was giving the signal for a three and running to beat the players back to the other end of the court. When he realized he'd lost his balance

12 (34m 9s):
Falling for a referee, it doesn't get much more embarrassing than that. It's it's bad. People are on you. Pretty good. You know, and I'm, I'm trying to hold it up. And Eric was on the sideline and he sees me fall.

9 (34m 22s):
Eric is Erik. Spoelstra the Miami heat coach.

12 (34m 24s):
And he sorta just stood onto the floor and braced me and our arms sort of inner locked. As he braced me, righted me. I yell out things as I go on by and I run on down to the baseline. After the game, Twitter exploded that the NBA is rigged. If you don't believe that, watch Moni McCutcheon give a high five to Erik Spoelstra after this three. And the reality of that was just so far in a way wrong up against this real human moment of just a reactionary thing that a good person does for another good person. You see someone falling, you help them not fall.

9 (35m 3s):
He says that when he started out reffing, no one would have even noticed. And if they did it, wouldn't have mattered. That's changed.

12 (35m 10s):
Mistakes get made as NBA referees, and they're just mistakes. But they often get interpreted in this, this wider scheme of thought process that a lot of our cultures is dealing with right now, which is there must be a fix in there must be a reason for this.

9 (35m 28s):
You think the world is looking for a fixed more now than it was when you started.

12 (35m 32s):
I think that the t-shirt I saw recently has merit. I'm not saying it's your fault. I'm saying, I'm you,

9 (35m 38s):
He feel abused.

12 (35m 39s):
Yeah. Now, you know, people do their research. They things are out there on the internet. They know your record with the, with their team. They they've done all, there's all these sites on all these

9 (35m 51s):
Different, they know personal things about you.

12 (35m 52s):
Oh sure. Of course. Some death threats are made from time to time and playoff series and you'll get security all the way to, to both the hotel. And then the hotel the next morning out to the airport, the

9 (36m 3s):
Security to the hotel,

12 (36m 4s):
Not every night, but when those threats are, are a known factor, it has happened in my career. Security to your car is mandatory every night.

9 (36m 13s):
And at some point you feel this question rising up in you in me, it rose up while I was talking to Ramona Shelburne, the ESPN reporter, why would anybody want to be a ref?

11 (36m 23s):
Seriously? I wonder that too, man. It's just, you know, they, they're not allowed to say anything. They're not allowed to explain themselves. They're not allowed to defend themselves.

9 (36m 32s):
Look, obviously they get paid. They started 150 grand a year. And if they're great at their job and work extra games, they can make as much as 500. But there are lots of ways to get paid without spending half your life in hotel rooms. And the other half being insulted by arenas filled with crazy people. Do you think the refereeing has gotten worse or better?

11 (36m 52s):
I actually think it's gotten better.

9 (36m 54s):
Of course it's gotten better. How could it not have the mystery is why the stars and the coaches and the fans act as if it's gotten worse sitting in the NBA replay center in Secaucus, New Jersey. I get a hunch about that after I see all these people on all these TV screens jumping around and hollering at refs, the ruckus appears to be confined to Cleveland, but in here it feels like the entire universe is disturbed. There's a reason for this. LeBron James is upset. Jake, he's arguing.

13 (37m 27s):
There he goes.

9 (37m 28s):
Roger is going from rafter ref. She was, you know, which rests to argue with.

13 (37m 33s):
Yeah, they're talking about goaltending. So they're talking about it and talking about it. I think they might change. The James is James and the other guy had the best angle.

9 (37m 45s):
LeBron James has any effect doing that. The Ruffin Cleveland is not twirling his finger. There's no signal to us to do anything in the replay center. LeBron's drama. Strictly speaking is pointless. It's strange the way these players argue. They must think that if they make life unpleasant enough for the ref, you'll think twice before the next call,

13 (38m 9s):
I'll reveal

9 (38m 9s):
That

13 (38m 13s):
I'm going to sorry.

9 (38m 13s):
It's them. That it occurs to me just looking around the room at 110 TV screens. I've had a hard time following the games, nevermind the scores. I sometimes don't even know which teams are playing, but every time a player gets up into a referee's face, I've recognized the player. And I actually don't know that many NBA players, but I know all the ones who pitched these hissy fits because the only players getting up into the faces of the rafts are the famous players or the coaches who protect them. Ramona Shelburne, put her finger on it. The more aggressive behavior towards refs, isn't coming from every player it's coming from the stars.

11 (38m 50s):
It's just different than in the past. Like, you know, when you're a star, I think there's this feeling that you've sort of risen above reproach. You get used to a certain level of treatment. You get used to people who treat you that way. And then you feel like you should be treated that way.

9 (39m 6s):
Yeah. So referee referee to that person, it comes as a shock.

11 (39m 10s):
Oh yeah, no, it was with, when it, with any star in any celebrity, there comes a level of entitlement. So anybody who goes against that, who doesn't treat you like a star gets put into that hater category.

9 (39m 24s):
You want to understand the way the rest are treated, stop thinking of them as people just doing their best to try to make a game fair and start thinking of them as haters.

0 (39m 33s):
So we just got really interested in a very simple question of does the sense of being privileged make you disobeyed the rules of the road or the laws of the land?

9 (39m 43s):
That's Dacher Keltner. He's a professor of psychology at Cal Berkeley and someone who wonders about the effect inequality has on people's behavior.

0 (39m 52s):
It experience I had in Berkeley where I was riding my bike up this hill and I, and I got to the four-way stop sign. And I was halfway through this four way stop sign. And this guy in a black Mercedes roll through the stop sign, and it's halfway, there is a foot away from me about to take me out and he's on his cell phone. And I looked at him, I was ready to take them on like, all right, buddy, this is it. And, and what was most telling about this whole experience was he looked at me as if I was in the wrong and now I should get out of his way. And you know, even though I had made it through the stop sign first,

9 (40m 27s):
So Dacher and a colleague dreamed up this weird experiment, they hid two Berkeley undergraduates in the bushes near four way stop signs. The undergrads noted the makes of all cars coming through the intersection, assign them numbers. One to five, according to their market value. A new Mercedes was a five, a Honda was a three and an old pacer. It was a one

0 (40m 50s):
We positioned a Berkeley undergrad by a pedestrian zone and we make sure they look like they want to cross the street. Right? And they're sort of leaning into the pedestrian zone where it's required by California law to stop.

9 (41m 4s):
It's a game of one-on-one and a California crosswalk, one car versus one pedestrian

0 (41m 10s):
And 0% of the drivers of poor cars, zoom through the pedestrian zone. They all stop. And 40 some odd percent, 45% of the drivers of the fi the fives that rich cars blaze through the pedestrian. So I just say the rules don't apply to me. I'll carry on

9 (41m 34s):
This one. Study led to a bunch of others that showed basically the same pattern of human behavior.

0 (41m 40s):
Another experiment. We bring people to the lab and as they're leaving, there's this big bowl of candy. And it's like, and it says on it for the children, the Institute of human development on the ball, and we say, are you going to take a candy or two, if you're, as you're leaving and well, two, we count up how many candies they take after they leave the experiment. Privileged people grab a big handful of candy compared to poor people.

9 (42m 4s):
So let's turn the conversation something much more important, which is basketball

0 (42m 8s):
Most important of all

9 (42m 9s):
In the last five or six years, the NBA has embarked on essentially a dramatic reform of reference at the same time, the friction between the players and some of the owners and some of the coaches and the refs is going through the roof. The source of the outrage is the star players. People are getting thrown out of games or Kevin Durant and Steph Curry and James harden. And the warrior is the most famous team ever to walk on the court are the chief culprits exhibit a and bad behavior towards rafts. So you've got this weird combination.

0 (42m 41s):
Yeah, no, that's fascinating. You know, I still remember being a Lakers fan, you know, the great magic Johnson teams and watching Larry Bird do his nine step layup. And I'm like, come on, make the call. You know,

9 (42m 53s):
For most players of his era that would have counted as traveling. But Larry Bird was like, LeBron, the new Mercedes of his day, he played with certain assumptions about the rules and how they applied to him. The inequality on a basketball court is profound. It's profound and it's more profound there. Wasn't Larry bird's era. Larry Bird was a millionaire. LeBron James might be a billionaire and these guys are global franchise. Yeah. So you got in a funny way, a microcosm, it's an odd microcosm on a basketball court of what's going on in the largest society. The NBA has set out to ref the games more objectively, more accurately, more, fairly.

9 (43m 33s):
This is enraged, the stars and their fans and coaches. You want to know why here's what I think the star is used to get more calls in their favorite. And then they do now just because they were stars, objective refs have eliminated some of their privilege. The more objectivity there is, the less power they have. And to them, that's outrageous. I think American life just now has at least one thing in common with basketball. The authority of its referees is under attack. If people don't trust the refs, one day, you wake up in a world that seems not just unfair, but actually sort of rigged that is it's incapable of becoming fair because the people who benefit from the unfairness have the power to preserve it.

9 (44m 25s):
Boom, do you, if you flip a switch in 110 screens go dark,

13 (44m 31s):
All the law of small screens you got to do manually. The big TVs we got the remote.

9 (44m 36s):
Most nights, Joe Borgia stays at the replay center until almost two in the morning. It's just him and a couple of refs staring at tiny slivers of basketball games, trying to impose justice on powerful people who don't want it.

13 (44m 49s):
I think I'm not. I am not. So that's another story. All rough said, she got it. Then you do know you have to be partially off to

9 (44m 58s):
The a

13 (44m 58s):
Hundred percent negative business.

9 (44m 59s):
100% negative business.

13 (45m 2s):
That's why my son doesn't want to rough that I don't like people yelling at me

9 (45m 5s):
One day. A young Borgia naturally becomes a referee. The next he doesn't one day. Most people think the refs are more or less fair or at any rate, they don't spend a lot of time blaming them for all their problems. The next day, they wake up to radical inequality. The people on top the elites think they're special. They behave as people do when they think they're special, young people emulate them without even thinking about it. They just assume that's how you act. If you're a star or want to be. My first question is why when you hit a three-point shot, which you often do, why in the past, have you padded your chest and pointed to the sky?

2 (45m 49s):
I did it because of the people on the MBA and the MBA. Did it.

9 (45m 53s):
What do you think they're doing? What does it

2 (45m 55s):
Mean? I don't know. Just like I'm cool.

9 (45m 59s):
Do you believe in God?

2 (46m 1s):
No, I knew it. I mean, now I know what it meant, but no, I don't.

9 (46m 6s):
So what does it mean

2 (46m 8s):
Basically? It's like, thank you. Going

9 (46m 10s):
For hitting a three point shot. Do you, do you think God was responsible when clay Thompson hit a three point shot?

2 (46m 16s):
To be honest, if God was watching over everybody, whenever they hit a three point shot, I don't think that he would be able to like actually make, make them make the shot.

9 (46m 31s):
So do you have anything you'd like to say to the referees of the world before we turn this recording off

2 (46m 37s):
Don't pick sides unless it's my side.

9 (46m 40s):
Thank you.

0 (46m 47s):
Michael Lewis today's program is a rerun Joe Borgia who ran the replay center retired in 2020 David stern. Former NBA commissioner died in 2020. I goes podcast against the roses made by Pushkin industries. The current season is looking at how we doubt experts of all kinds, Gooding the people at the heart of Michael's latest book, the premonition experts who understood early on what COVID might do in America, but were not listened to. You can get against the rules wherever you get your podcasts.

0 (47m 39s):
Coming up. Dean Andrew grapples with the document that's supposed to enforce fairness above all others. I'm talking about the United States constitution. That's in a minute from Chicago public radio. When our program continues,

21 (47m 52s):
I'm Lulu Garcia, Navarro the host of first person, a show from New York times opinion. When we hear the word opinion, we often think of hot, takes a point of view in reaction to the news. But what about the experiences that shape people's opinions?

22 (48m 7s):
And we're like, yeah, we should unionize. And I was like, yeah, I'm pretty sure that's actually a felony.

23 (48m 12s):
That's a, the heart of the story in a lot of ways. How did I find myself pregnant?

21 (48m 17s):
First person, listen, wherever you get your podcasts.

0 (48m 24s):
This is American life from IRA glass today's program. No fair stories about people young and old, all over our country. Feeling a sense of injustice, feeling wronged and not getting satisfaction from the people in charge. We have arrived at Actemra program act to the fairer sex for this act. Let's go to Broadway for a show that starts with this true story.

24 (48m 47s):
When I was 15 years old, I would travel the country giving speeches about the constitution at American Legion halls for prize money. This, this was a scheme invented by my mom to help me pay for college. I, I would travel to big cities like Denver and the Fresno. I, I would give a speech when a whole bunch of money and then bring it back to put my little safety deposit box for later.

0 (49m 12s):
This is Heidi Schreck and the show what the constitution means to me. I loved this show. It's totally original. And what it's about in and how it tells its story. It's very funny. It's a very patriotic show in this totally corny way in the show. I'm Heidi, Schreck recreates the idealistic speech that you gave it 15, that one, her and have money to pay for her whole college education. And then she talks about the constitution and about her own life. Our show today is about fairness and Heidi Schreck to be clear, says that her 15 year old self definitely saw the constitution as a powerful instrument, enforcing fairness.

24 (49m 49s):
I believed it made our country fairer more equal, more democratic. I believe that wholeheartedly

0 (49m 57s):
At 15, at 15, you said, you said that as a kid, you had a crush on the constitution. Yes. What does that mean?

24 (50m 5s):
I was really excited by it. Like I, I was a very idealistic nerdy, young person and researching and reading about the constitution. And my dad is a history teacher and talked very passionately about the genius of this document and its ability to evolve and, and to somehow surpass and rectify the, the flaws of its founders. Like this idea that there was a document that could be created by flawed people that could be better than the people who made it.

0 (50m 45s):
When you say that I'm reminded of this, of this famous quote from bill Clinton, where he said, and I think this is such a beautiful quote, too, where he said, there's nothing that's wrong with America. That what's right with America. Can't fix.

24 (50m 58s):
I mean, Frederick Douglas has the similar quote, which is that like, yes, the constitution was founded on the great evil compromise of slavery, but that it also contained the means by which we could rectify that evil.

0 (51m 15s):
And so, and so your play is partly about that hopeful feeling that you had about the constitution when you were a kid, but also how you came to see it. Like once you became an adult as a deeply flawed document, you talk in the play about how, especially the constitution and American law really did not address things that affect you and members of your family, especially the women in your family for just a long time. And when it did finally get around to addressing women, it was late and it came to it kind of, kind of a critically. And there's a large section of the play where you've talked about how, how to get women to be covered by the constitution lawyers and the justices had to kind of jury rig women into having rights using, for example, the ninth amendment.

0 (52m 1s):
Can I ask you to just explain what the ninth amendment does?

24 (52m 4s):
Sure, sure. So the ninth amendment, which was my favorite as a kid says the enumeration in the constitution of certain rights shall not be construed to deny or disparage other rights.

0 (52m 19s):
You're just resetting that

24 (52m 20s):
I'm just residing from memory. Yes. Yes. Okay. Well, it's technically shall not be construed to deny or disparage others retained by the people meaning that just because a certain right is not explicitly given to you in the constitution, it doesn't mean you don't have that. Right. This amendment allows for the fact that the founders could not have imagined the future that we're living in now.

0 (52m 48s):
Well, it's like them admitting it. It's like we can't think through every possible thing in this one document. Right.

24 (52m 53s):
I also like to think that in 300 years they knew that the world would look very different.

0 (52m 58s):
And, and in the play though, you, you say to actually like get this thing to apply to women justice, William O. Douglas has to come up with a concept, which is so strange. And so almost poetic like this idea of the penumbra,

24 (53m 10s):
Right? What is up a number here? I am standing in the light and there you are sitting in the darkness and this space between us this space right here of partial the shadowy space right here. This is a penumbra William Douglas. I love that metaphor and said that you could, therefore, I think this idea that somewhere in the shadows of the constitution we are in between kind of in between shadowy space or our rights, we have not yet named, you could use the ninth amendment to essentially like shine a little light into the dark corners and say, okay, over there.

0 (53m 56s):
And then as you say, in the show, the ninth amendment combines with the 14th amendment and a kind of like wonder twins, power, activation moment to decide Roe vs Wade. But, but the ninth amendment is also the way that birth control gets legalized in the sixties. And, and w w let's hear, we're going to hear an excerpt now from the play. And this is where you talk about how that came about. And it begins with you explaining how you and a friend got birth control. The same year you were doing this contest. When you were 15, you went to planned parenthood.

24 (54m 25s):
Neither of us were having sex yet, but we just, we wanted to be on birth control just in case, you know, just in case we were in a hot tub and, and, and the sperms swim up and attack to us. Okay. I mean, you can laugh, but be careful, Or, you know, in case of a real attack, what I didn't realize at the time is that birth control had only been legal for all women in this country for about 15 years. I mean, I was 15. So I thought it had been legal since like the Dawn of time, but no, no. In 1965, this incredible woman, stele Griswold got herself arrested for dispensing IUD to poor women at her Connecticut planned parenthood.

24 (55m 11s):
She faced a year in prison, took her case all the way to the Supreme court. And this, this is actually when William O. Douglas first pulled out his big pin number metaphor. This is when he said for the first time that one thing, the constitution surely guarantees is the right to privacy. And that this allows a woman to put in an IUD as long as she is married. And as long as her husband says that it is okay, This is a very scary moment for William O. Douglas, because nobody understands the ninth amendment. Nobody, except for me at 15 justice Scalia said he didn't even remember studying it in law school, but they had to dig up this amendment that nobody understands because there was just no other way to deal with a female body because they all wanted to make birth control legal.

24 (56m 1s):
They did. They wanted it because, well, because I found out that William of Douglas, who was my hero when I was 15, just as William on Douglas was 67. And he was having an affair with a 22 year old college student. So I'm thinking, right, they want to find a way to get the birth control flowing. I actually Arab Bella, can you play a snippet of the Supreme court recording? This is the actual argument. So remember it's, it's 1965. There will not be a woman on this court until Sandra Day O'Connor arrives in 1981, here are nine men deciding the fate of birth control.

26 (56m 45s):
All of these devices that are covered, that each of them has the potential dual function of acting in a contraceptive capacity. And as a prevention of disease, it's probably only two was respect to some, but some that by under the term of feminine hygiene and others, I just don't know about they are. They are oh, sold in the Connecticut drug stores on one theory or another. Is there anything on the record to indicate to the standard of the birth rate in Connecticut, these reasonably be the states that don't have such a lot.

24 (57m 37s):
It's like four hours of that.

0 (57m 41s):
When Heidi Schreck was publicizing her show, she did this interview with Tony Krishna, the, the playwright and the pure surprise winner, probably best known for angels in America. And in this interview, they had this interesting exchange Cushner says to her that he thought that her show was partly about this thing that he has been writing about and thinking about ever since he wrote that a movie about Abraham Lincoln a few years ago, that Steven Spielberg directed Kirschner said that in his view, a central question of democracy is that there needs to be some kind of mystical bond holding everybody together. Lincoln talked about the mystic chords of memory, and very consciously tried to pull everybody together into allegiance for the union.

0 (58m 22s):
But Christina said that if you actually interrogate what the thing is that is actually pulling us together, it's really like just a stack of paper, right? It's just an act of faith that we have with each other. And he pointed out that how, of course, everybody knows right now, this act of faith, this feeling that we are all in this together. And we are one people who can work things out together that is in such short supply. And the very idea of teenagers giving speeches about that stack of papers about the constitution and its importance and its values. Krishna said, I'm quoting here. It feels like an ethos of a not very distant and yet somehow very distant past where people believed in fairness that the superstructure that we've also want to agents to the constitution is going to create opportunities and possibilities.

0 (59m 12s):
That really hit me when I read it. And I asked Heidi Schreck in our interview. If, if she agreed that the America, where she gave those speeches when she was 15 seemed very far away.

24 (59m 22s):
Yes.

0 (59m 23s):
How so?

24 (59m 25s):
Well, so it was the eighties between like 86 and 89. First of all, I felt, I mean, I was very liberal in high school, you know, feminist liberal, like I get my speeches reflected those values. And I remember giving a speech about the second amendment, which I was arguing for gun control because there had just been a shooting in California and a McDonald's. And I was arguing for strict gun control laws in front of a room of men who, you know, all owned guns and went hunting. And, and I won that contest and, and I always felt a sense that these men, I was, you know, giving the speeches for supported my right to have a different view than they did supported my right as an American to express myself the leaves.

24 (1h 0m 10s):
Like it was important in a democracy that we have these conversations together. So that felt different to me. I will also say I was, it was, this was like the very beginning of, of rush Limbaugh, you know, and then Fox news.

0 (1h 0m 22s):
And there's been, who gave you award money after you argued against the, the second amendment? You think that that would be, it would be, might be harder today?

24 (1h 0m 31s):
I think so. Although I will say I looked on YouTube at other American Legion speeches and they still seem to be like, the winners often seem to be quite liberal. So at least maybe in the space of the American Legion, there's still room for this kind of dialogue.

0 (1h 0m 50s):
I hope

24 (1h 0m 51s):
I helped you.

0 (1h 0m 59s):
Heidi. Schreck what the constitution means to me. A filmed version of the state show is on Amazon prime, go to constitutional footnote here. After we recorded that interview, I learned that the 14th and ninth amendments did not really combine one to twin style to decide Roe vs. Wade. Technically the 14th decided row with the ninth justifying an important precedent that cited in the case.

1 (1h 1m 23s):
This then it's John from <inaudible>

0 (1h 2m 6s):
Well program was produced today by <inaudible> and Ben Calhoun. The people who put our show together includes the people to Kornfeld Jared foil, Damien grave, make uniques go Nelson. So yellow have a gray Nadia, Raymond Robin semi-regularly Sullivan Christos Shatara Matt Tierney, Nancy Updike, Julie and Diane Wu. Amanda, to get her to for today's program is David Kestenbaum production help on this rerun from Michelle Navarro, especially thanks to David Jacob Weisberg, Nicole capital STO Matt Ross, Sarah scroll gardens tribe, Sarah Holdren, and New York magazine, Chris Jensen and everyone at the south mountain YMCAs, where we set up the tattle phone, Michael grad Alinsky, and the folks at FET phone who made the fund that we used to record the kids' titles, our website we've listened to our archive of over 700 episodes for absolutely free this American life.org.

0 (1h 2m 49s):
This American life is a little bit public radio stations by PRX. The public radio exchange X is always your program's co-founder Mr. <inaudible>. You know, you said this thing the other day, that is a perfect illustration. Why you should not combine microdosing with babysitting.

2 (1h 3m 6s):
My baby turned into ducky and I don't know how I could Intuit gucky and turn back to a baby

0 (1h 3m 15s):
AmeriGas back next week with more stories of this American vibe, Next week on the podcast or this American life. Mississippi is one of the few states where you lose your right to vote permanently. When you go to prison for lots of different crimes, they don't get it back when you get out when you got off parole, but there is one loophole to get that right back.

27 (1h 4m 2s):
1721 says Gerald layered of Jefferson Davis county,

0 (1h 4m 6s):
Get a bill passed in the state legislature. We watch someone try next week on the podcast or new local public radio station.