0 (0s):
Support for this American life comes from NetSuite. If you're a business owner, you probably don't need them to tell you that running a business is tough. Don't let QuickBooks and spreadsheets slow you down anymore. Now is the time to upgrade to NetSuite by Oracle the world's number one cloud ERP NetSuite gives you visibility and control over your financials, HR inventory e-commerce and more. Join the over 24,000 companies using Netsweet schedule your free product to her. Now at netsuite.com/tal that's netsuite.com/tal a quick warning. There are curse words that are under beeped in today's episode of the show. If you prefer a beeped version, you can find that at our website, this American life.org, Gary did not want to become a football player, no interest in the game at all.

0 (51s):
He was a timid kid kind of kid who in baseball, what causes eyes. When he was up at bat, he was so scared of getting hit by the ball. But when you're in high school, you know, your personality is still up for grabs. And at Gary's high school, there was not one person, but two people with a very different vision of who he was. They were assistant high school football coaches and very noticeable, big personalities. And they were twins. And I didn't really know their name. I'd seen them around. They were super handsome and in great shape. I mean, they were ripped and they would wear Gold's gym and tank tops and jams. These shorts, these Hawaiian shorts, they would buy those. And they had really long hair and they w they were very charming, charismatic, funny.

0 (1m 36s):
And they were known as the Jetsons, which was this self proclaimed nickname. I think they called themselves the Jetsons. They referred to themselves because the Jetsons was people from the future. And they felt that they were like that. They were, they were definitely the first people I ever noticed who referred to themselves in that is that the third person said the Jetsons are coming to get you. The Jetsons will see you, the Jetsons. That's what they was. Sometimes they would, they would say, Johnny Jetson, we'll be with you today. Joe Jetson will be with you tomorrow. They're like magical figures. And these magical figures, these assistant football coaches, they gave Gary his own nickname in the fall of junior year.

0 (2m 19s):
It was not a glittery name. Like the Jetson's kind of the opposite, actually waist. They called him as in waste of talent to let go, man, to playing football. They told them that football would get them a college scholarship. It'll get them girls. They said the newspaper would write about him. They wanted him on the team so badly because Gary was a giant compared to most of the kids playing football back then this was in Peabody, Massachusetts, Boston, suburban or Salem in the late eighties. Most high school players back then were five, nine, five, 10. Gary was six, six, 200 pounds. And he was athletic, but basketball on his high school team, those coaches scolded him for his complete lack of aggression and for crying.

0 (3m 2s):
What he really loved doing was art projects, going to the arts and crafts store reading. He kept an enormous stuffed animal collection in his room. Even in high school. He was also pretty depressed at the time. Gary's a comedian today, Gary Goldman, and on stage when he tries to describe what he was like as a kid,

1 (3m 20s):
I talk about being Charlie Brown. I say, picture my childhood, Charlie Brown. If Snoopy had died, that that was my, that was my childhood. I felt so sorry for him.

0 (3m 34s):
Like the whole point of his character is that he's sad and lonely. Yeah. Even that wasn't lonely enough, you have to kill off his dog. Yes. So in the debts, instead of telling them that they were going to make them into a star, he laughed it off. He liked the attention from the Jetsons. Sure. But he did not consider this seriously at all. Football seemed brutal, just nonstop, violent, physical contact. He did not think he could cut it. Guys. You knew who played football. They were so tough. Gary, on the other hand, he got picked on, he got bullied. He was bullied out of little league. So football, no way. And then his junior year ended. And just a couple of days into summer break,

1 (4m 14s):
It was June six 30 in the morning. You got a phone call, woke them up. It's the twins. They said that Goldman, this is the Jetsons. Meet us at the universe gym at seven 30. We are going to train the Goldman this summer and get the Goldman a scholarship and make the GOME Han into a star. By the end of the summer, you will be 245 pounds and ripped like Arnold. It was so weird and bold. And on the spur of the moment he figures, what the hell? And he has this thought that you have sometimes as a kid, he thinks these adults say, I can do this.

1 (4m 55s):
Maybe they're right. They were so convincing. They was so convincing. And then there was a part of you that thought like, yes, magical man. It was, it was intoxicating. It was because they were so cool. And my entire life, my, my family was more of a, don't get your hopes up type of attitude, a philosophy of things. Don't, don't always work out the way you want them to. And so it was a very negative house. And I remember asking them, if I said to you guys really think I'm gonna, I'm gonna play on the side, school football team. I don't have that much experience. And they're they're answering.

1 (5m 36s):
Should I swear? Or just say what really happened every single time I would ask them any kind of question they say, fuck. Yeah. And not everybody was using that expression back then. That was the first instance of somebody saying that to me, instead of don't get your hopes up and we'll see it was fuck. Yeah. And I, and I just, I was like, Oh my gosh, these guys are, are, are so, so exciting. And they believe in me.

0 (6m 4s):
So that summer, every morning he works out with the Jetsons from seven 30 to nine 30, then they take them to a diner and they buy him a big breakfast with eggs and other proteins at night. Sometimes they teach them running routes. Remember Gary had never played football.

2 (6m 17s):
And it was just like the Jetson said

1 (6m 21s):
It was incredible. It was like a Rocky montage. I was getting stronger and bigger. And they would say things. They, they had this thing. The Goldman is getting huge. The Goldman is getting huge.

0 (6m 34s):
And so by the end of the summer, how did you look?

1 (6m 37s):
I looked fantastic, man. I, I I'd grown my hair long. Like them and clothes started to look really cool on me. They were, as I was filling out and they were, they were right. I weighed 240 pounds. I could bench press 225 pounds. I ran a 48 40, which was, was very impressive to everybody. Everything about me had, had changed physically. I had built this really great costume.

0 (7m 3s):
Why did you say costume? Because it, it

1 (7m 6s):
Covered up who I really was. I was still the same, the same Gary who, who cried at movies.

0 (7m 12s):
So you have this man costume yeah. That you're wearing, which is your new body. Yes. I feel terrific. And as it came time to start practices, you would think that he would be psyched to use this new body that he had created for the purpose that have been made for like, okay, he's kept in America, it's world war II, bring on the Nazis. But in fact, he was terrified of just getting hit of the physical contact that should built into football. And a week before practice, he talks to a friend and he says to the friend, he doesn't think he can do it. He doesn't think he can go through with it. Should he call the Jetsons and tell him he started over. It's not for him.

1 (7m 47s):
I'll never forget what he said. He said, Gary, they will kill you. They spent their entire summer train you and feeding you. You can't, you have to go through with this.

0 (8m 2s):
So he did. He went through with it. But the problem was as John Jetson put it, he was a Daisy in a field of weeds, a lamb among conquerors. You could put it into a tough guy costume, but it doesn't always make them into a tough guy. And of course, adults are always trying to convince kids and inspire kids about who they can be. That's what good parents do. That's what could teachers do? But some kids like Gary just have trouble going along with the plan. They want to please the adults. They want to do what they're asked. But all the while that genuinely wonder can they actually become the person the adults are telling them to become is that them is that who they should be.

0 (8m 45s):
And it's totally confusing for them. The adults in their lives seem to know what they're talking about. They're adults for God's sake, they're supposed to know better, but the kids end up wandering in a really primal way. Who am I? Well from WBZ Chicago. It's this American life I'm era glass I showed today in two acts in the second act, adults make it to a woman can't even decide what is true about some of the most basic facts about her own history. But we're going to start with this story act one Gary's story, which we're calling Jersey. Sure. Gary went to his first football practice and it was just as bad as he had imagined.

0 (9m 26s):
It would be guys rushed at him and smashed into him on every play. It's totally painful. He's completely miserable. Bruised. It was in this one, play.

1 (9m 36s):
This guy hit me helmet to helmet and it was so loud, like a gunshot. And everybody noticed it and they called it a biz. And the way it got its name was, they said, and the Jetsons has told me this. They said, the biz is the sound that it makes when you get hit in the head during a game, which is zoos. And each week, the, the guy who had the best hit on somebody else would get this. T-shirt called the biz of the week. T-shirt. And now we know that, that these things, these businesses, they were concussions, but at the time in 1988, the concussion protocol was pretty much you good?

1 (10m 17s):
You good? And that first time that I got

3 (10m 21s):
Besides the Jetsons were so proud of me, they, they high five, me and they patted my head. The goal man got BUSD as first biz. I was laughing along with them, but I was like, I hope that never happens again. So every day Gary would show up at practice and hated it until finally they started to play real games. And these are just

0 (10m 44s):
Preseason scrimmages, but they're against other high schools. There's a crowd. Yeah.

3 (10m 47s):
The stands that changed everything from the very first time they put them in an offense,

1 (10m 52s):
They set up a play from a it's this pass where they just throw it over the middle. They throw it up high. Nobody can reach as high as I can jump. I catch it. It takes a couple of guys to, to bring me down just because I'm I'm big. And I want to run away from contact. Like there were fans and they were cheering. I, I will say that was exhilarating.

0 (11m 14s):
Coach Trey man on defense. He barely knows what he's doing. And he sacks the other side's quarterback.

1 (11m 20s):
I had no technique, but I was just so much bigger than this kid that, that he couldn't outrun me because he wasn't as fast as me. And he wasn't as strong as me. So I was able to wrestle him to the ground. Anyhow, we go into the, to the locker room and the coach is berating the other players on the team for, for not being aggressive. And he says the only person out there sticking anybody, which I don't know if they still use that expression. But I liked that express, sticking anybody is Gary. Gulman a kid who never played football until this summer. And I w I had goosebumps and I, it was, it was like a movie. So it's all happening. Just like, just like the Jetsons had said it was uncanny opening game of the real season.

1 (12m 11s):
The coaches start him, this newbie player. He sacks the opposing quarterback right away and on offense. Faith for me, the ball three times I caught every single one. I mean, that, that night I go to my first high school party. I'd never, ever gone to a high school party. And it was such a let down. Cause you see parties and movies. They're so exciting and there's sacks. And I just sat on a, on a couch because I didn't drink. And, and it was an incredible left down, but I was in, I was invited, but I was really excited. That's it's important. Yeah. You were there, you were there at the bad part. Yeah. You made it. And then Sunday night, the night before school, a local newspaper reporter called me and interviewed me about this game.

1 (12m 54s):
He said that, that I was the talk of the town and it talked about how everybody knew the ball was coming to me and they couldn't stop me. And just like the Jetson said, said there are going to be newspaper articles. There was a newspaper article on the Salem evening news the next day that called me Mr. Rob potential. Wow. Yeah. And it did not last,

0 (13m 16s):
The season opener is first grade game was also his last great game.

1 (13m 20s):
I had one more decent game or I caught a pass and I made a really, really good tackle. But the teams started to do this thing where they would send guys to block me in my legs and they would send a couple of guys and they would just roll into my Mo my legs. I think it's called a cut block if I remember properly. But that was how they would sort of neutralize me.

0 (13m 45s):
And didn't the Jetsons have some technique you can use to like get her?

1 (13m 49s):
No, I either either they, they didn't suggest one or I wasn't able to employ it.

0 (13m 57s):
Opposing quarterbacks learned to stay away from the side of the client that Gary was on. So it wasn't sacking anyone anymore. And after this one time, when Gary fumbled the ball on a big play at the goal line 70, he says they stopped sending them out for passes. So no more churro catches. He wasn't making big plays. He was not living up to all that bright potential and some dark part.

1 (14m 22s):
His personality kicked in like maybe he was a waste after all the man costume had fooled them for awhile, but he was still the same person. You'd always been started to dread practices and games. I would throw up before every game on the sideline I would throw up because I was overcome by it, nervous and anxiety. I started to feel really lousy about myself and my grades suffered. And, and I just knew that I was starting to, to disappoint these, these guys. And they never said anything to their, they never said, wow, we were really had high hopes for you. It just, I, it sounds crazy. I still have nightmares about it.

0 (15m 7s):
His plan back then was make it through the season one game a week, never play again.

1 (15m 13s):
And in the middle of this, a college football coach came into our locker room and, and introduced himself to me at my locker. And that was sort of a, what the hell is going on here

0 (15m 25s):
Introduced himself to you mean and said what?

1 (15m 29s):
He said. You had a great game, which I, I hadn't. And I am an assistant at Dartmouth college. And we'd love for you to take a visit

0 (15m 41s):
To Dartmouth. Okay. Here's the thing that Gary didn't know or understand at the time, as disheartened as he was his coaches did not think he was having a bad season. Sure. They weren't sending them out for passes. But the main reason for that, John Jetson told me on the phone, wasn't the fumble that Gary had made like Gary obsessed over. It was that the quarterback couldn't throw reliable, passes their team. Wasn't that good that year. And sure, yes. Gary didn't know how to stay on his feet when players threw themselves at his ankles. But John Jetton says he'd only been playing football a few months. Of course he hadn't mastered that there wasn't time to teach him everything. The Jetsons still saw. Gary as a diamond in the rough Gary was doing everything.

0 (16m 22s):
They asked, ran his plays. Well, it was more reliable than most of the team. And so the coaches did what they did with any player, with a ton of potential. They took video of Gary's best game. That great first game made a bunch of copies and send it around to colleges. And after seeing that video, a parade of recruiters showed up Gary school he'd get called out of class to meet them. He was approached by Harvard, Holy cross, UMass university of New Hampshire, university of Maine, and some top division, one AA schools, Syracuse and Boston college, his favorite, but recently when the cotton bowl,

1 (16m 59s):
And also there were players on the team who are all Americans. I mean, this was a big time program that played a big time schedule against Penn state and Notre Dame and Ohio state and USC. I mean, they were, they were big time football and they had Heisman trophy winner, Doug Flutie. He was the hero to everybody in my neighborhood. And what do you remember of like them recruiting you? I remember this man who had seen on TV because he had recruited Doug fluid and he was a new England celebrity. His name was Jack Bucknell. I'll never forget it because he had an office at Boston college and it overlooked the stadium and he had a Heisman trophy and he said, son, I always, I always loved being called son.

1 (17m 44s):
And I would just melt. It's like an arm around the shoulder. I don't know what it is about that word. He said, son, I'm going to go ahead and offer you, which meant a scholarship I'm gonna, I'm gonna offer you. And he said something to the effect of you're 17 years old, or maybe I was 18. And he said, you have an NFL body. And, and I remember thinking, wow, I've really fooled another one. And a part of me was thinking, I was afraid this was gonna happen because I'm gonna have to take the scholarship. And I know I'm going to be in over my head. And then the other side of it was, this is so exciting. And somebody believes in me and, and did,

0 (18m 25s):
Why did you feel like, Oh my God, I'm going to be playing for this incredible coach, whatever problems I had in high school. This guy is the guy. He's a genius. He's going to fix whatever problem I had. I'm going to be a star. Yeah. So he takes a scholarship. He says he has no idea how he would have paid for college without a football scholarship. He works out all summer. And by the time he gets to training camp, he was bigger than ever 260 pounds, his speed and strength, one of the best on the team, but it's clear right away. It

1 (18m 53s):
Felt so small. I mean, these guys really were Superman, their aggressiveness, their strength. It wasn't the same sport. And it was quite clear early on to the other players that I wasn't like them. I didn't talk was like, yeah. And I can be pushed around and I could be bullied. There were guys who were going to go on to the NFL. There was one player who played for the Vikings. And I remember one time I was lollygagging on a play and he, he hit me and beside me, and he said to me afterwards, and, and he was, he was his nickname on the team was the maniac. What? You really have to do something impressive to get a nickname like that.

1 (19m 34s):
Amongst these lunatics, he said to me, he said, you can't just stand there like that. I could have killed you. And in the nicest way possible, he said that he had let up, even though he had hit me harder than I'd ever been hitting my in my life.

4 (19m 50s):
<inaudible> Gary went into a full-blown depressive crisis, not eating what he should have been eating, like a horse sleeping all the time crying. The prevailing thing

1 (20m 7s):
Going on in my head is I want to kill myself. I'm worthless. I'm useless. Everybody hates me.

0 (20m 14s):
And did you have this thing? Yeah. Do you have this feeling of like, Oh, well, I'm actually like, as strong as any of these guys. Like, you're stronger than most of them you're faster than most of them like, like I should be as good. Did you have a thing of like, what if I just psych myself up in the right way? I'm going to be able to do this?

1 (20m 29s):
Well, I just knew, I knew who I was and the problem is I know who I am and I hate him. I hate him. He's so weak. And he disappoints and he lets down and I just wanted to go back to the room and sleep and, and, and cry. Yeah. Did you have your stuffed animals with you? No, but I, I had brought my blankie. Like I, I grew up with a blanket that was in my crib and I could never sleep without it, but it was like this thing that I was so ashamed of and never spoke about really to anybody, because I, I thought that if anybody ever found that out, they would just be like, this guy is insane.

1 (21m 15s):
And also a woman. Did you have a roommate? I had a roommate. Yeah. That you had to hide the blankie from yeah. Yeah. It's in the F you would call it the blankie, not the blanket. No, I, I always, I, I mean, I, I refer to him, I referred to him. I called him blanking and, and, and, and whatever happened to it. Oh, I still have it. It's on my pillow right now in Harlem. Yeah. Wait, wait. Seriously? Yeah. Wait, how old are you? I'm 48. Do you need it? No, but I, it, I love it. It's there with the pillow. I've put it in my, my computer bag so I can carry it on planes when I travel.

1 (21m 57s):
And is it a comfort? Yeah, it's a comfort. It helps me. It helps me sleep. I, I don't know who commented. Isn't it? The fact that you keep asking me questions about it makes me think it's, it's really odd, but like, you'll have like, people who you're sleeping with will like, will like come over and they'll sleep in your bed and there'll be the blankie. Yeah. My partner. Shadae, she's a woman she's been aware of it since we've been dating. Yeah. Not a problem. Not a problem. No, not until today. Sorry. I'm not trying to Blinky shame. I'm not. Anyway.

1 (22m 37s):
Back in college, first time he goes home for the weekend. He stays in his room, cries and sleeps and won't talk to anybody. And his brother suggests he find a therapist for what team actually has counseling services set up for anybody who needs it. And when he gets back to school, Gary meets with therapist who asked them a lot of questions. And he said, point blank. He said, why not? Why don't you just quit the football team? And I, and I like that was ludicrous to me. And the way I would explain it now is starting to Sarah. My entire identity is wrapped up in this. And if I quit, I will be proving the voice in my head that keeps telling me I'm weak and soft and worthless.

1 (23m 17s):
Right? So we made it through the season. The doctor prescribed him antidepressants and the sadness and ruminations lifted. And in the spring Gary's therapist asked, what are you gonna do about football the next year? And Gary was like, I'll continue till I graduate. And he said, listen, I never give advice. It's not my place to give advice, but I'm going to give you some advice. You need to the football team. I said, if I quit the football team, I don't get to wear the uniform. I don't get to wear that jacket.

1 (23m 59s):
That gets me special treatment in the cafeteria and, and makes me interesting to the other, the other students and the professors. I said, if I'm not a football player, then who am I? And he said, and I'll never forget it. The best answer. He said, you'll be a man, but he didn't mean it. You'll be masculine. You'll be macho. He meant you'll be an adult.

4 (24m 28s):
Gary, quit the team. He did keep the scholarship. Counselor, went to bat for him and convinced the school to let him keep it for four years. And that same year, the year he quit football. Gary took the first real steps towards a different vision of who he'd be as an adult, a vision that was not handed to him by any of the grown-ups in his life, not as coaches or his parents or his teachers was something he invented for himself. That's the year he started writing jokes.

1 (25m 3s):
Do you know that? I listened to your show and I've heard people reveal things about themselves that I wouldn't reveal. Yeah. And I would never thought that the blanket would be one of those things that there could be somebody being like, Oh, I'd never tell anybody about a blanket. I don't, I couldn't care less than everybody knows now. So you feel, no, you feel no. Self-consciousness about it at all. Not anymore. I did for 47 years though. I only mentioned it on stage. This, this year people laughed and it redeemed everything. No, no, no. And now you said that, I feel like I am like, I don't want to make you feel weird about it. No, no. I think it's healthy, but, but you love Charlie Brown, who was the wisest character on the peanuts cartoons.

1 (25m 48s):
Oh my goodness. Yeah. And he had a blanket. He was five. He wasn't five, right? He's eight or whatever. He's no, you're right. He was old enough to have he's a child. No, he is a child. Yeah.

4 (26m 13s):
Gary has an HBO special called the great depression. It's on HBO. Max. If you're curious about his work, you can find it@garygoldman.com coming up

1 (26m 32s):
19 year old tries to understand a moment that shaped her whole life. Fortunately for her there's video, unfortunately for her, it's more complicated than that.

4 (26m 42s):
That's an a minute I'm Chicago radio.

0 (26m 44s):
When our program continues support for this American life comes from choice, ology and original podcast from Charles Schwab hosted by Katie. Milkmen a behavioral scientist, Wharton professor, and author of how to change choice. Ology is a show about the psychology and economics behind our decisions here. True stories from Nobel laureates, authors athletes, and more about why we do the things we do. Listen to choice ology at schwab.com/podcast or wherever you listen support for this American life comes from Squarespace. If you have a story to tell whether it's about starting a business or sharing photos, Squarespace gives you an all-in-one platform to bring these stories to life with modern templates and 24 hour support, you can easily create a professional website or online store, head to squarespace.com/american for a free trial.

0 (27m 40s):
When you're ready to launch use code American for 10% off your first purchase of a website or domain, this American life, Myra glass today's program. Here's looking at you kid stories of adults telling kids what they should think of themselves and kids trying to make sense of what they're told today's show is a rerun we've arrived at act two of our program. Act two grownups know things that that title was actually a line from Lord of the flies. Piggy says it that grownups have a cup of tea and talk things through, and then everything is all right. That's how grownups do it. It's hopeful. And of course, you know, wrong-headed so often things don't work out that well here in the adult world, but I'm in the story.

0 (28m 22s):
It's this moment where a bunch of the boys chime in with their desire that they could turn to adults. And in this next act, a girl turns to an adult with that same kind of hope that the adult will set things right. But every time the adults that she turns to, since we do not agree about some very fundamental things about her Eleanor Gordon Smith reported this story for a book she wrote,

5 (28m 45s):
I got interested in uncertainty years ago. There's a kind of uncertainty that we all live with where you don't know the answer. It's not a big deal. Like what time the bus is coming, who left the front door open, where that pen went. But I wanted to know about the opposite high stakes uncertainty, where the facts aren't decisive and it hurts to not know what to think, where there are big consequences. It affects your whole life. I wanted to know, is it possible to just sit in that kind of foundational doubt or do you just have to flip a coin and pick something, anything to believe? Which is how I got interested in Nicole Colombo. She's 40 now, but this starts when she was 16 and she just couldn't catch a break.

5 (29m 30s):
She was in foster care after her dad who had sole custody of her for most of her life had a stroke and died. She'd bounced around between friend's houses, but wound up in a group home. I just felt very

6 (29m 42s):
Adrift in the world and unanchored having lost my father, my best friend, I was so alone. And I, I just, I was reaching out for something to feel connected to.

5 (29m 58s):
She started really wanting to know about her mom. She lived nearby just a couple of hours drive, but they hadn't seen each other in more than 10 years. The custody court hadn't even allowed visits. And Nicole didn't know why a quick warning, what I'm about to go into mentions different kinds of abuse. Nicole had a foggy thought that her mom might've done something bad to her. As a kid, she remembered saying something to someone when she was young about her mom burning her feet on a stove and remembered something about a sexual abuse allegation. But could that be right? Surely she'd remember those things actually happening, but she didn't. What if her dad had just made her say those things about her mom?

5 (30m 39s):
It had been a really ugly custody battle. Each parents had all kinds of things about the other. What if her dad wanted custody so bad? He invented all these awful stories. There was so much about her mom that Nicole didn't know. So she arranged to meet her mom in person. They did. They started seeing each other more regularly, but it always felt off. Once she remembers sitting next to her mom at dinner and putting her head down on the table in front of her,

6 (31m 6s):
She rubbed my back and it was very, very uncomfortable. And I had a pretty strong reaction to it.

5 (31m 15s):
Nicole says they didn't talk about any abuse. And then in the middle of that doubt, a piece of evidence seemed to fall from the sky and with it, the promise of knowing what had happened in the custody dispute, Dr. Dave Cohen phoned Nicole. He was the child psychiatrist in the custody battle that had split Nicole off from her mom. And he had video tapes of interviews. He'd done with her when she was a very young girl, it had been his job to investigate the abuse allegations. He'd had a question. He was speaking at a conference. Would it be okay if he showed those people? The tapes, Nicole remembered Colin. She remembered that he'd been nice to her as a kid.

5 (31m 56s):
She said, yeah, he could use them, but could she see those tapes too? He agreed and recorded that meeting.

7 (32m 5s):
I don't know the effect because it's never been done to my knowledge. This will have on you. Okay.

6 (32m 11s):
So I'm sitting across from Dr. Corwin and there's a video camera. I'm getting ready to watch the tapes of myself at five years old. And he went through a very lengthy informed consent

7 (32m 25s):
At this stage. You're 17 years old. What I'm doing is I'm, I'm doing this informed consent directly with you saying here's the issues as I understand them. And then it's up to you. Okay.

6 (32m 36s):
Finally, we got to the point where he was going to shut off the video camera so that I could watch my five-year-old self. And he asked me to be here. You know, what do you recall? Why don't we start with, if you could just tell me what you can recall of that time? I think I described one of the offices that he did, one of the interviews in a striped sweatshirt that I was wearing at the time

8 (33m 5s):
Wearing a sweatshirt that was striped this way. Okay. That's I don't know why. When I think of these interviews, that's right.

5 (33m 11s):
17 year old, Nicole says she can't remember whether her mom really did hurt her.

8 (33m 19s):
You, I guess I told the court that my mom burned my feet on the stove and I still don't remember if that's in fact how I was burned. Really all. That's the most serious accusation against her that I remember. That's what I'm having a problem. Remembering. I've come here trying not to determine already that she's done it or that she's guilty. And I've come here to try not to say, well, she's in a, she, she didn't do anything. I refuse to believe she's had anything imperative. I really want to know.

5 (33m 53s):
And then Colwin brings up the allegation of sex abuse.

6 (33m 56s):
David Corwin literally asks me, do you remember any allegations of sexual abuse?

5 (34m 2s):
Ah,

6 (34m 6s):
And my initial reaction is actually, no, I remember that was part of that was probably the act. And then he starts to speak and I say, wait, hold on a second. Okay.

5 (34m 18s):
17 old Nicole's whole demeanor changes at this moment. It's instant and kind of strange to watch. She becomes completely still. And she's staring into middle distance.

8 (34m 32s):
Gosh, that's where I accused her of when she was bathing me here, whatever I'm hurting me.

6 (34m 48s):
And that's when I started to recount some details of a memory that came back to me. As you were saying that to me, is that

5 (34m 58s):
You remember having said those things or you remember having experiences.

8 (35m 4s):
I remember it happening that she hurt. She hurt me. She is too. She is the, I don't know if it was intentional hurt. She was bathing me. And I only remember one instance and she hurt me. She put her fingers too far where it shouldn't have been shared. That's the first time I've remembered that since saying that when I was six years old. But I remember, I remember being young.

8 (35m 45s):
Yeah. I remember it happening. Okay. It was like,

6 (35m 52s):
Like a movie set where the walls there's no, there's no roof. Like I was sitting up on the walls, looking down into a bathroom and my biological mother bathing, you know, younger me and she touches me inappropriately. That's where the memory stops.

5 (36m 20s):
Like you're watching it from outside of yourself from above.

6 (36m 24s):
Yes. But I could feel the pain though. And I remember saying that like, it's like I took a snapshot of the

8 (36m 32s):
30 seconds long, a picture of the pain and what was inflicting the pain.

6 (36m 37s):
It was my biological mother.

5 (36m 45s):
Even before she saw the tapes. Nicole at 17 felt she'd got the certainty she wanted. She remembered her mother actually hurting her. She watched the videos of herself as a small girl. Anyway, Cohen shut off the recorder while she did. And this remarkable thing happened. Nicole saw herself as a young girl describing the very same abuse, almost verbatim. I've seen the videos. It's the eighties, a very small Nikolas and pink tails and white stockings coins and a big plaid shirt and shaggy hair. And he asks right away about Nicole's mum.

8 (37m 19s):
What's she like me? Why? Why is she mean hurt? How does she hurt you? Like stick your finger up my vagina. But I've to there my finger. When did she do that? All the time. Which gives me a bit about what, what did you say to her when she did that to you should go do that. I said, Oh, okay.

5 (37m 58s):
She says, her mom burned her feet over a hot stove. Corn tries to figure out if Nicole knows the difference between what's real and what's make belief. He asks her to separate things like president Reagan, real, what she knows from things like Superman, make belief, which she also knows. He gets out of swear on her oath as a brownie. That what she said about her mother is real. She does. She holds three little fingers up in the brownies.

8 (38m 23s):
My honor, I will try to serve God and my country,

5 (38m 28s):
The concerning details about Nicole's mom. Once she had dropped Nicole off to see Dr. Cohen for one of their recorded sessions. And Nicole had seemed happy to be recorded and speak clearly into the microphone. When her dad dropped her off is suddenly concerned that the microphone would broadcast. What she's saying into the waiting room where her mom sits. Korn asks her about the abuse she described the week before. Does she remember talking about that a little bit? Nicole says quietly.

8 (38m 56s):
Okay. Tell me a little bit, right? They can't hear us. Okay. They can't hear us out there and you're safe here. Okay. And I'm, I'm not gonna, after we get done talking, I'm not going to tell them what you told me. Okay. It's just between you and I right now. Okay? Okay.

5 (39m 23s):
She whispers before going on to talk about being burned untouched in the bath. In another interview, Nicole says her mother's told her to lie.

8 (39m 35s):
I don't know. I guess what's your quarterback. My mother, you know me? How's that? Get back to me.

5 (40m 3s):
She's talking about CPS child protective services.

8 (40m 7s):
You didn't do what she did. She would do something bad to me. Well, when, when did she say that?

5 (40m 19s):
So that's the video of six year old Nicole co and then ask seventeen-year-old Nicole. How she's feeling about what she just saw. She says there are some questions that might never be answered, but her biggest question about why she didn't grow up with her mom that had an answer. She was sure her mom had abused

8 (40m 38s):
Back, but I do have an explanation in my mind and I can now realize it's not my fault. You know? And I can put that chapter behind me and I can go on. Yeah, I do think it's very humbling

5 (40m 59s):
For Nicole. The tapes and her memory proved what had happened to her as a kid, it was a relief. She'd been worried that she was going to learn that her dad really did coach her to lie about her mom. Now she could put that aside. She could remember him the way she always had as her best friend and a good dad. But then Colin published a case study about Nicole. He didn't use her name. He called her Jane DOE, but Corwin's case study became part of a huge dispute that was fracturing psychology in the nineties. It was called the memory Wars. And the argument was about whether repressed adults suddenly remembering trauma were real. Some scientists believe repressed memories were possible.

5 (41m 40s):
Others said no way. Nicole's video tapes. And Corwin's article were co-opted by the side that thought repressed memories were real. They thought Nicole's case proved it. Coleman. Hadn't seen this coming. I've spoken to him. He says he wasn't on either side, Dr. Elizabeth laughter's red corns article with one eyebrow firmly raised. She was a psychology professor at the university of Washington and a big deal. It was her experiments that proved memories of malleable. And she was a star witness in high-profile court cases where she argued that eye witness recollections aren't reliable.

5 (42m 23s):
So when the memory Wars began, she knew which side she was on. She thought repressed memories were almost never real. She wrote a doorstop of a book called the myth of repressed memory. And when she read the Jane DOE case, she was alarmed.

9 (42m 36s):
I knew that people were using this case as the new proof of repressed memory, it was being discussed academically. It was being introduced into court cases to prove that repressed memory is real and has been proven. It be, it was being used against people whom I thought were innocent because they were on trial in their cases. And so we had to get to the bottom of it.

5 (43m 5s):
Part of her suspicion was the message. And part was the messenger. She'd seen Corwin testify in court. On another case, a patient accused their therapist of abuse and she didn't find him persuasive there.

9 (43m 17s):
I already had a suspicion about Corwin and his judgment. I think going into this situation because of the work I had seen him do on this other case and how he had pretty much, you know, helped to ruin the life of this poor female psychiatrist, who was the accused person. In this other case,

5 (43m 38s):
You're saying that the female psychiatrist was accused of

9 (43m 42s):
Abused by, by I think a former patient and

5 (43m 46s):
Cohen was saying that that had happened

9 (43m 48s):
In so many words. Yes, he was. He was an expert for the accuser.

5 (43m 53s):
Loft has decided to investigate the Jane DOE case. She wanted to know whether the abuse had really happened, but to do that, she needed to know the real name of that little girl, rather than us Cohen, which would be normal for a researcher. Looking into someone else's study. She decided to dig around on her own Loftus, knew where to start

9 (44m 12s):
Clues in the tapes. At some point in the tape, he called her Nicole and I just made a little mental note. Her name is Nicole. He said something like, and when you were living in Fresno and I thought, Hmm, it has something to do. Fresno, that kind of thing.

5 (44m 37s):
She contacted a private investigator to run down some tips. She searched death records for Nicole's father. She found dozens of matches and she started narrowing them down, closing in on the real Jane dog, Nicole, meanwhile, we're thinking very little about her time. As Jane DOE, she left foster. Karen was making her own life as an adult. She joined the Navy. She was learning to fly military helicopters and she decided to become a psychologist. She says, because she wanted to be like Colwin. She felt safe when she was talking to him as a kid, like she was being listened to. She wanted to make other people feel that way. She started ACEing her psychology classes at night, while she trained as a pilot during the day, a couple years into her military service stationed in Hawaii, she got an odd phone call from a close family friend

6 (45m 24s):
Said, Hey, there's something going on. There's a private investigator looking for you. What did you think? Oh my gosh. Why on earth? What on earth? What is happening now? And I knew within moments of hearing the words, private investigator, that this had something to do with Dave's journal article,

5 (45m 53s):
It was the only thing she'd ever been. Part of that might be interesting to an investigator. She called Corwin who learned Loftus was behind it. Loft us interviewed Nicole's foster mom, former stepmom, family, friends who knew her growing up she'd even interviewed Nicole's biological mom and said she might've been wrongly accused. Nicole hearing about Loftus was like, absolutely not. Why did you want her to stop?

6 (46m 19s):
I felt intruded upon. I felt violated very vulnerable, very exposed. And I understand that. That probably sounds weird given that I had already given Dave my consent to publish a story about intimate details of my life. But there's a very, very big difference between someone asking you to investigate parts of your life and someone doing so without your knowledge or permission, I did exchange emails with her and I asked her to stop what she was doing. And what did she say? And so many words. No.

5 (46m 58s):
Did she ask you any direct questions while she was looking into the case?

6 (47m 3s):
No. Did that strike you as kind of odd? It struck me as kind of infuriating.

5 (47m 10s):
Nicole complained to Loftus his university who told us stop investigating the Jane DOE case.

9 (47m 15s):
We just got the call from some administrator on my campus saying, you know, are you looking into this case? I said, yes, look on the end of this case. And, and they, and sees my files. I mean, I couldn't believe this was happening. When, when can, when can the administrators come to your office and just take your files?

5 (47m 40s):
Loftus was eventually cleared. And she published her findings on Jane DOE. She argued that the abuse might never have happened. Of course, this was the opposite of what Nicole had believed and clung to. Since she was 17, loft has printed eight pages worth of doubts in a magazine and called the article who abused Jane DOE when Nicole heard the article was on Stan, she took a friend from her military base and drove 50 miles to Barnes and noble where they stood side by side reading it,

6 (48m 8s):
It was so hurtful. It was so ridiculous to me that someone basically interviewed everyone in my life who had known me when I was a child, except me. And then when I had and patchwork together, the story that just so happened to completely support her hypothesis, how dare she? She just had no, right? She just had no right to do what she did.

9 (48m 47s):
Whose story is this? This isn't just her story. This is, this is the falsely accused mother's story. This is a whole other people are part of this story. I don't think one person gets to just decide. I'm going to only tell the story one way and only let people tell it who believe me complete uncritically. What about the other people in the story? I thought I was investigating an accusation against a possibly innocent person.

5 (49m 20s):
I don't think the claim is that you should have just believed her on critically. I think, I think Nicole says that the way that you went around this research was sort of traumatizing and demoralizing to her. Like it made her feel like she didn't have any control over her own records and her own confidential information from her childhood. Can you put yourself in her shoes at all? Can you understand why she feels like this was a trespass?

9 (49m 46s):
Well, I, yes. I, I mean, I think she, she had her way of, of telling her story and, and she didn't want there to be another way. And then that might be upsetting for her.

5 (50m 3s):
I don't, I, it doesn't seem to me like what she was upset by was that there was another way of telling the story. I think what she found upsetting was that you found out who she was and looked into her life without asking her without thinking about her.

9 (50m 22s):
Well, don't you think that, that, that that's what journalists do all the,

5 (50m 29s):
Usually when you write a story about someone you contact them or you ask them what they think of, the things that you've found out.

9 (50m 40s):
Actually, I, you know, I, I, there were times when I would have liked to have talked to her. I think I even wrote up some questions that I might want to ask her, but in the end, we, we decided that it was just too risky, risky, how I just remember there were going to be conditions and, and, and it just made us nervous. And so we decided we would just publish what we had found out through many, many other sources and, and, and leave it at that.

9 (51m 22s):
And that's, that's what we did.

5 (51m 25s):
Nicole suit with the help of a lawyer who took a case for free. They went after Loftus and everyone who'd helped write the article for 21 complaints from defamation to invasion of privacy. But even though she was angry with Loftus, Nicole read her article over and over again, until something happened that she wasn't expecting. She found herself agreeing with Loftis a little,

6 (51m 47s):
It planted a seed of doubt. It did. Yes.

5 (51m 53s):
What was that like to feel like there's this thing that you've been so certain of for so long that you felt like you had resolution of with Dr. Colwin and seeing those tapes, and then to have it be the subject of doubt again, what did that do to you?

6 (52m 13s):
It made me feel very small and made me feel very insignificant as though my opinion on my own, the events of my own life were the least important.

5 (52m 28s):
Nicole started changing her mind back and forth over and over someday. She thought she'd been abused other days. She thought she'd lied about it. I have to say, as someone who spent months looking into as his article, it is really hard to work out the responsible thing to think. When I first read it, I remember thinking game over. There's no way Nicole's mom abused her. But as I looked into each claim, loft has made what, it seemed like a nine on the convincing. The scale turned out to be more like a fall, like lost has found a report from another psychologist.

5 (53m 9s):
Who'd interviewed young. Nicole who said she sounded mechanical and rehearsed. When she talked about abuse, loft has told me that was the evidence that impressed her most, but I don't know. He says, quote, Nicole has told her story numerous times to a number of people. And she now sounds mechanical. He could mean Nicole's lying, or he could just mean, she's been asked to tell it too many times and left us, interviewed Nicole stepmom, a woman who'd been there for the custody battle. She told, loved us that she and Nicole's dad had tried to win custody with what she called the sexual angle. Loft has heard that as sinister, but did she accidentally reveal that she'd had an agenda or did she just use sexual angle as an unfortunate shorthand, like saying we won custody with the abuse thing and take the burns loft has found out that Nicole has a fungal condition that makes skin peel like a healing burn, but there are photos of young Nicole's feet with big blisters.

5 (54m 8s):
Could they be explained by a fungus? It genuinely torments me. I still don't know what to think. Every piece of evidence seems to pinball back and forth like this. I went mad trying to find out the answer. I thought if I read enough court documents, I'd finally find the one thing that no one else had. The thing that would give me certainty either way. Of course I didn't. And Nicole didn't either. She sat every day in the suspended animation of not knowing caught between two really distressing ways of seeing her past in one, her mother abused her in the other. Her father manipulated her into lying. And because she lied, her innocent mother was cut out of her life and wrongly accused of abusing her child.

6 (54m 52s):
It just created this back and forth that I continue to live with today. It did happen. It didn't happen some days I fall somewhere in between

5 (55m 4s):
How disorienting was it to feel like you had the truth and then you lost it.

6 (55m 11s):
Disorienting is a good word, but I don't think it fully captures. It goes to my identity. It really goes to the heart of who I am and who I thought I was and who I think I am the most important, the key memory on which I rebuilt and then rebuilt again, my identity has now been called into question. It's just frustrating multiplied by a million. It's just so, so frustrating.

6 (55m 55s):
There is an intangible to be gained from the process of transition from being a victim, to becoming a survivor. And in my case now, all of a sudden I'm am I neither? I don't know, am I either, I don't know.

5 (56m 18s):
Nicole's lawsuit against Elizabeth Loftus dragged on and on over five years, all the way out to the California Supreme court in the end, Nicole lost the first amendment protected life. As, as journalist and Nicole had to pay the legal fees, nearly a quarter of a million dollars, which she could not afford. The court garnished, her military wages. She quit, the Navy lost two houses and her car was repossessed over all this. She filed for bankruptcy These days, instead of being stuck between believing she was abused and believing that she wasn't Nicole's found a third option, she tries to care a little less.

5 (57m 3s):
She can't dial down the uncertainty. So she tries to dial down the stakes.

6 (57m 8s):
I'm never going to know. I'm never going to know. And even after all these years, I think I still thought that at some point I would come to a solid decision. Yes or no. And really, really, I'm never going to know. And that just has to be okay.

5 (57m 33s):
There's so much that Nicole can't be certain of. So she hammered out a certainty about herself. She found a way forward. She became a pilot. She got two master's degrees and a PhD in psychology. She's now a therapist like she's wanted since she was six and she's never caught her mom out of her life. Nicole's mom has always said that she never abused. Nicole. She maintains that today. And she says, she didn't tell Nicole to lie to child protective services. Her mom's in her seventies, they live in the same state. It's not an easy relationship.

6 (58m 6s):
There's a possibility that I ruined my biological mother's life. There's a tremendous amount of guilt associated with that. We're close for. We're relatively close for a period of time. And then things sort of fall apart again, just as they have.

5 (58m 24s):
When was the last time that you spoke

6 (58m 28s):
Five months ago? And what was that like? It's still, it's still awkward. It's still very pressured. If you will. She still wants very much for me to believe that she never did anything to me. And, and I still don't know. So it's, it's really, really hard to move past that major sort of elephant in the room. Do you have a talk about it? No.

5 (59m 2s):
Is she able to accept that? You might just not know?

6 (59m 9s):
No. I think she really wants me to believe that she didn't.

5 (59m 12s):
Do you think you could, do you think there's anything that could change your mind?

6 (59m 17s):
No. The waters are so muddy now. There's no,

2 (59m 23s):
I'll never know one way or the other. Nicole is no more certain about what happened today than she was when she was 16. She never flipped a coin and picked something to believe, but she landed on a certainty about what to do, but doesn't rest on what to believe. Doesn't matter what the evidence says. She wants her mom,

1 (59m 51s):
Eleanor Gordon Smith. A version of the story is in her book. Stop being reasonable. How we really change our minds Well program was produced today by new drumming and Emmanuel Berry. The people who put a show together includes Whitney Dangerfield to be able to Cornfeld Hillary Elkins, Damien grave, Mickey Meeks, Dale Nelson, Catherine Raymondo, Nadia, Raymond, Robin Semyon, Alyssa Shipley Sullivan, Christopher.

1 (1h 0m 35s):
So Tala Matt Tierney, Julie Whitaker, and Diane woo. Our managing editor for today's program was David Kestenbaum, additional production help on today's rerun from Ari. Safferstein special. Thanks today to John and Joe Tashay AKA the Jetsons. Amy pertain Michelle Johnson and Keith Woods are a website. This American life.org is American. Life is delivered to public radio stations by PRX, the public radio exchange. Thanks as always our shows. Co-founder Mr. <inaudible> Tia. You know, he is so excited about the superhero. He created this guy who gets bit by a radioactive seagull patrols, the beaches saving lives. Tory swears it's super popular. The Goldman is getting huge.

1 (1h 1m 16s):
The Goleman is getting huge. AmeriGas back next week with more stories of this America,