2 (1s):
A quick warning. There are curse words that are unbeaten today's episode of the

1 (4s):
show. If you prefer a beeped version, you can find that at our website This American Life dot-org.

2 (12s):
From WBEZ Chicago, it's This American Life. I'm Sean Cole and for Ira Glass. The first punch landed on sort of the lower back right side of my skull behind my ear. That was the one that knocked me down. This was a couple summers ago. I'd been walking down this sort of abandoned industrial Block in my neighborhood in Brooklyn. It was after midnight. There was a big group of kids teenagers boys, maybe nine or ten of them coming the other way. I was on the sidewalk they were walking in the middle of the street where the cars go. Also, I was on the phone with my friend Sam talking to him with my earbuds.

2 (55s):
And so I just kept walking and talking glancing over at the kids a couple times and then I saw them see me and they sort of stopped and said something to each other and then a few of them casually like I wouldn't notice started walking in my direction. I don't know if taking off in a Sprint was the best decision or if you could even call it a decision a couple of the kids said, yeah. There are a few things. I remember about the next 30 seconds or so and a few things. I don't I remember looking down at my shoes and thinking why can't I run any faster than this?

2 (1m 39s):
Sam said what's happening? I said I'm being chased who's chasing you. He said they're chasing me. I apparently said which I don't remember. I don't remember how I got off the ground after the first punch. I just know that a second later. I was running again and still getting punched in the head being punched in the head while running becomes withstand a bull remarkably quickly after the second hit my skull was like if this is all that's going to happen. You can manage one kid way in the back nowhere near me yelled gimme your wallet, but laughing like it was a joke. They never tried to take anything. He easily could have I've tried to come up with something to compare the experience of it too.

2 (2m 24s):
But I've never felt anything else that intensely. I've never felt as good in my life as how bad that was. I rounded the corner and saw a semi truck coming was the only moving vehicle around I ran toward it with my arms straight up over my head and when I looked back the kids had vanished gone just like they'd never been there in the first place. I slowed to a walk which is when I noticed my ear buds were neatly spooled around my left. Ankle. Like I'd done it on purpose. One of them was smashed and when I lifted the other one up toward my face, so you okay Sean Don't Talk To Me Sam was still on the phone Shan Shan Shan.

2 (3m 8s):
Okay, are you okay? I'm okay. I'm okay. I'm recording this recording is the whole reason I'm telling you about this. And when he realized something was wrong Sam had taken the phone away from his ear and opened up this recording app in case I needed some kind of evidence or something later. He's extremely organized that way and I'm really glad he did it for one thing. I have this bizarrely candid portrait of myself. Now in the moment exactly after one of the worst things that's ever happened to me. It took a while for me to be able to listen to it. But I mean it's a lot of them. It was like a lot of guys.

2 (3m 48s):
I'm used to hearing my voice recorded and controlling the way I sound like the way I'm talking to you right now, but this was like some unbidden child creature bubbling up from my throat when I listen to it. It's like I've finally taken some mask off and I didn't know I was wearing and they kept hitting me on the head and then I fell and his great myself up a bit, but I'm I'm okay that he didn't get anything. What do they hit you? I think that their hands

1 (4m 19s):
God that was scary Jesus

2 (4m 20s):
fucking Christ. That was scary, but you're right. He didn't know I'm

1 (4m 26s):
fine. I'm okay, Steve take some deep breaths on here earlier. And I don't know. I'm

2 (4m 31s):
actually fine. Like I and this is another thing this kind of incantation. I keep repeating. I'm fine. I'm fine instead of telling Sam what did happen? I spend most of the call focusing on how bad it could have been it's like I'm clinging to a buoy in the ocean after a shipwreck. It could have been a lot worse. She said it could have been a lot worse. I lost my glasses. Oh, no, but it's okay. I mean, I'm fine. I'm okay.

1 (5m 3s):
I'm okay. It could have been way worse. I'm actually fine.

2 (5m 13s):
I'm actually find I never say things could be worse almost every other time in my life has been better than this one and yet most of the time I just brewed about what's going wrong or what. I wish I had done differently. But here I was clearly just Paving over all the broken glass of what happened to me immediately counting my blessings in a way. I'm never usually able to and of course it could have been way worse truly catastrophic things happen to people all over the world every day. I remember talking to Sam for 45 minutes. It was actually about 12 minutes, which I couldn't believe I was like, where's the rest of it by minutes six six minutes after the attack.

2 (5m 56s):
We're already starting to laugh about stuff. I told him that I had been heading down to my car to get a pack of cigarettes and he says yeah. Well, I guess it'll kill you. It's good to know. We were able to talk about it like that so quickly. It makes a lot of bad things seem more survivable. We spend so much time trying to control how we're seen by other people. But sometimes we can catch an unexpected glimpse of ourselves that we haven't manicured and that has way more information in it about how we actually are. Might not be the funnest thing to witness, but at least we know in today's show.

2 (6m 36s):
We've got two stories in which that happens to different people seeing themselves in the wild and what it confirms or doesn't about who they think they are stay with us Jesus. That

1 (6m 49s):
was something that'll wake you up Wellness Jesus.

2 (7m 4s):
Act 1 you don't have to be a star to be in my show. I want to tell you about my friend Zach's first Big Break Zach McDermott. We're pretty different people Zach's from Wichita and he has this kind of Macho Kansan self certainty about him on the surface. I do an impression of him that I finally broke out when we were hanging with each other a couple of months ago. You know him. I'm a writer I reckon able to get gussied up for you. I wasn't expecting you to be looking at my hair like that. That's

1 (7m 34s):
pretty good that flatters me a great deal. Why are you don't think you usually do impressions of people unless you kind of really like them or don't like them at all or if you super don't like that, right? Yeah, and I feel like you more Super like me than super nice super like

2 (7m 48s):
you Zach is the singular combination of things. I really haven't encountered before as well as being Swagger 'you can also be awkward and vulnerable. He's conspicuously caring for the people he cares about after my assault. He made me promise. I'd call him in the middle of the night if I needed to He's been about seven years working as a public defender for the Legal Aid Society of New York. Sometimes juggling more than 60 cases righteously indignant about the court system. He's always giving advice but he also needs to be reassured a lot and he really likes other people's attention. He's always watching himself in ways both literal and not which anyway brings me to the story of The Big Break see about 10 years ago when he was still a public defender Zack was also trying to make it as a comedian grinding away sometimes doing four or five open mics and night his act was pretty intense back.

2 (8m 41s):
Then he had a mohawk and Frank Zappa mustache and Jazz patch one time. He came out on stage. Just shouting lyrics from the rapper Gucci Mane.

1 (8m 53s):
You know

2 (8m 57s):
usually record his set just with a little video camera or phone and he also had this friend who is always egging him on sort of wrapping him in a way Zach always refers to him just as the producer he doesn't want me to say who the guy is but he's famous adjacent ran with a really heavy crowd. And apparently he had Big Dreams for Zach's future.

1 (9m 17s):
It was like, oh, yeah, don't worry. I know Hova don't worry. I know Jimmy found don't worry. I know Les Jay-Z. Yeah, you know meeting all these people with him and him telling me like, you're my project man. I'm putting everything behind you. I'm willing to put all my money behind you. I'm willing to put all my connects behind you. You're next, you know, trust me when I push the button it's going to go fast.

2 (9m 41s):
They worked on a pilot for a TV show together held a casting call for the role of Zach's girlfriend collected headshots did screen tests the whole thing and then in the fall of 2009. Found himself walking out of his apartment building and onto the set of a TV pilot in which he was the star.

1 (9m 58s):
Everything just looked perfect. Huh, like a coke commercial. It was a gorgeous day of fall day in New York Sonny. There was a realistic amount of people on the street, but not so many that the scene is going to look like rush hour because it wasn't it was the middle of the day. It should look like the middle of the day and everyone is also just a little too

2 (10m 19s):
attractive like actors everyone. I don't have audio of this because it was never actually recorded because it wasn't a TV pilot those people on the street weren't actors. This wasn't Zacks first big break into Show Business. It was his first big psychotic break like the part of his brain that wanted to be in the spotlight all the time had suddenly exploded. Zack was experiencing a type of delusion that we've talked about a little bit on the show before it's called The Truman Show delusion not incredibly common, but not as rare as you might think either sufferers of Truman Show delusion basically think they're being filmed all the time by hidden cameras just like the Jim Carrey character in the movie The Truman Show in the weeks leading up to the break Zach had been showing signs of this oncoming split with reality little harbingers and then bigger ones he'd been growing more and more manic sleeping less

1 (11m 9s):
unless I had some friends and family start to be concerned about me and I kind of just brushed it all off. You don't understand what's going on in my brain. You don't understand right calm, but you don't understand out of do comedy. You don't understand how to do comedy after your lawyer all day. You don't understand how to write a joke. Look it's a mathematical equation. Let me show you this is a premise. This is why this is funny. This is why that's not funny.

2 (11m 33s):
That's your inner

1 (11m 34s):
monologue. You don't understand and outer

2 (11m 36s):
monologue, even the producer was concerned told Zach. He had to go see a doctor if they're going to keep working. Other and yet when Zach walked out of his apartment building onto the street that day he was sure the producer had staged everything just for him and Zach was ready to perform Thinking of himself as some hybrid of Ali G. And Johnny Knoxville.

1 (11m 57s):
I'm thinking my friend the brilliant producer had decided. You know, what Zach's not really an actor. He's not going to know how to act. I'm just gonna throw him in somewhere. He'll eventually get what he's supposed to be doing and he'll just kind of like basically method act himself. He could probably do that, you know, so I go to Tompkins Square Park soon as I'm in there. I spot generic old man on park bench.

2 (12m 26s):
That's what it would say if if he was in the

1 (12m 28s):
credits. Yes, and he had a bike and he was too old to have a

2 (12m 32s):
bike another tell that the entire neighborhood had been cordoned off to Showcase Zach's comedic talents Zack thought it would be funny if he grabbed generic old. Bike and did a couple laps around the park with it generic old man did not take kindly to Zach trying to grab his bike away Zach relented. It was surely a sign from the producer keep things moving. So Zach takes off in a Sprint toward the middle of the park and Vault over the wall of this big doggie playpen

1 (12m 59s):
a get down like on all fours myself and like Gallop with the pack running toward the end of the fence I jump out the other side and I'm like, all right, you know cool. Whatever that was worth. I did it, you

2 (13m 11s):
know money maybe

1 (13m 13s):
yeah, that was funny maybe who knows and I also was thinking that the pedestrians were extras doubling as production assistants and I'm supposed to follow them follow the foot traffic that will take you where you need to go. You know, no one's coming up to me with a clipboard and a shot list or anything, right? So there then phoning ahead to the producer or whatever production unit saying, okay. He's on First Avenue. He's almost to Houston. You know and like, okay, we'll make him go make him go west then

2 (13m 44s):
whenever Zach tells this story. He has a whole menu of deranged things. He did that day to talk about running around a soccer field with his shorts pulled down while the game is going on ordering champagne on a hotel patio and proceeding to yell at the cameras in the trees as Zach remembers it and Zach's memory is all we have to go on this television non debut lasted for about 10 hours a 10-hour narcissism variety show arranged for him to give the performance of his life.

1 (14m 12s):
I sprinted across the intersection of think it was Houston and First Avenue while cars were moving. Oh,

2 (14m 19s):
yeah, that's incredibly

1 (14m 22s):
dangerous not if it's professional drivers on a closed

2 (14m 25s):
course at its height everything he did was the right thing to be doing. He was a master of improvisation following all the cues perfectly. And then he started getting tired and then exhausted everything was still a clue, but he wasn't sure what any of it meant anymore somewhere along the way he lost his shirt and also his shoes and the next thing he knew he was standing on a Brooklyn subway platform hands behind his head like a captured Soldier crying so hard he flushed his contacts out of his eyes. All he wanted was for someone to yell cut thinking to

1 (14m 59s):
himself. Okay, fine. You've got your shots can't you see that? I'm balling can't you see that? I'm here suffering. Can't you see that? I'm done like come out come out wherever you are, mr. Producer, so I'm crying and I just like scream, you know quick.

2 (15m 16s):
What do you want from

1 (15m 17s):
me? Two cops come up their uniforms. Look real super real. The next thing I recall with any Clarity is being in the back of an ambulance, huh? And eventually I hear radio crack on it's like, you know intake available at Bellevue psych ward.

2 (15m 49s):
Zach was eventually diagnosed with bipolar disorder type one which can involve psychosis sometimes in Zach's case lack of sleep and daily pot-smoking might have triggered the episode at Bellevue. He says they dosed him up with antipsychotics at times. He could barely lift his chin off of his chest. He drooled a lot. He couldn't go outside Zach's only experience with psych wards before this was as a public defender representing edps or emotionally disturbed people and now he was one the delusion that he was on TV lasted in one form or another for the next 10 days. Besides Mother Cindy coming down the hall on day two.

2 (16m 29s):
He wasn't sure at first if it was her or an actor in Prosthetics, he calls her bird because of the way she snaps her head back and forth. Sometimes the bird is here. She told him the bird can't be here. He said bird lives in Wichita. She said the bird got on a plane. It took more than a year and a couple more episodes like this before he got stable along the way he figured out a few things. He had to be good about taking his meds and sleep was key. He couldn't burn the candle at all ends. Like he had been going on stage all the time.

2 (17m 10s):
So he stopped for the most part kept working his day job as a lawyer. They say you have to be at least a little crazy to be a comedian, but it's also possible to be so crazy that you can't be a

1 (17m 21s):
comedian.

2 (17m 28s):
Zach has told the story of this psychotic break countless times at this point. It's a good romp and he's got it down all the different parts tells it entertainingly. But while it's one thing to recount something like that from memory, it's another thing if someone catches it on video you can actually see yourself in psychosis. I say this because after Zach got better and thought he was totally out of the woods sanity. Why's he did have another psychotic break and it was captured on video. And for the first time in his life saying Zach would be able to see himself in the midst of Truman Show delusion.

1 (18m 4s):
Okay,

2 (18m 6s):
excellent. Sorry. I'm just going to stop that and explain what happened. So after a while Zack quit loitering and decided to try to make it as a writer, he wrote a book about that first psychotic break and his disorder called gorilla and the bird gorilla is Zach's nickname because he's really hairy and barrel-chested again. The bird is his mom. It was optioned for a TV series before it even came out. HBO is planning to run it the director jean-marc Vallée who did big little lies and sharp objects is on board Zack and I have had entire conversations about who might play him on the TV show about the time. He thought he was on a TV show and wasn't in fact his therapist said to him sort of joking, but sort of not, you know, you might end up playing yourself on that show to which Zach basically responded.

2 (18m 54s):
Yeah. I think they might want to go with one of these A-list celebrities. They're considering and then Zach was trying to figure out ways to promote his book. And of course these Days, a lot of authors make videos when they're books come out and so Zach hired a production crew to shoot footage for he wasn't sure what a promotional video but if it was any good maybe they do a bigger documentary you wanted to take them back home with him to Wichita to interview some of the people that he'd written about in his Memoir meaning his family have the crew follow him around his home town for a week. Just rolling on everything documentary-style the crew consisted of two professional cameramen and a very seasoned TV producer that sack happen to be friends with he'd been around cameras a bunch before this by the way and didn't trigger his Disorder.

2 (19m 41s):
So the morning the delusion really hit Zach hadn't met up with the film crew yet. They were actually wondering where he was. He was supposed to call instead. He was driving around Wichita by himself in his grandfather's pickup. He was fighting serious back pain and he had barely slept in three days again. Sleeplessness is a huge trigger for his episodes in the book here. It's the solution to Mania is so simple yet. So hard to come by just sleep. And the thing his therapist said came back to him the jean-marc Vallée might want him to play himself on the TV show.

1 (20m 17s):
I came to believe that. Oh my God, maybe my therapist was contacted by whoever and maybe I really am auditioning for

2 (20m 27s):
myself. So right now like I am auditioning to play the role of myself. I'm in the process of an

1 (20m 35s):
audition. Yes, and I was just testing it slowly because I was like be careful, you know, you've had this delusion before and you've been wrong and not only that I know how the world Works a little bit. Yeah. I know HBO isn't just like yeah, let him play himself a great idea like know so but like, I don't know maybe the director he's kind of crazy like he takes a lot of risks

2 (21m 2s):
and sitting in the truck. He started to have the feeling that in addition to the people. He knew would be filming him later that day there were Also other cameras, but he couldn't see and maybe audio recorders to possibly right there in the truck with him.

1 (21m 18s):
I was listening to a song and his truck and I was kind of dancing a little bit and I was like, oh this is kind of funny and I was like, well, maybe you're not being taped right now. That's quite possible. That makes sense because I put maybe you are so maybe just give them a little something to think about leave them with something like okay, you know, he's got a little something there. He's raw and you needs training but we got something we can possibly work with here.

2 (21m 43s):
So once again the powers that be had spotted Zacks latent talent and set it up so we could just do his thing in the wild. Wow the crowd

1 (22m 0s):
Should we watch a video? If we must let's watch the video. This is Gonna Hurt, really I think so, how come well, I think I'm going to feel bad for the dude I'm going to watch who is me.

2 (22m 20s):
So the video it starts with the production crew in their car without Zack. It's just one cameraman and Zach's TV producer friend. Jay are heading to a taco shop to meet Zac. They pull up to a standalone building surrounded by a big parking lot and they arrived at the same time as Zach's family friend Rob an older guy with a white beard and a tan ball cap. The cameraman's walking around the side of the taco place and there you are.

1 (22m 51s):
Hmm. Oh, man. Yeah,

2 (22m 56s):
zaxon a Spider-Man Crouch with his hands on the ground staring down. He's wearing an Adidas T-shirt and sweatpants. No glasses. He dropped them somewhere which means he can't see anything. He's clearly in a lot of physical pain. It's his back. It's spasming.

1 (23m 13s):
I'm on my hands and knees now. I'm trying to stand up. I can't pedestrians are asking if I'm okay. Beck's gobbled her up his backs over. He's fine. My friend Jay is saying he's okay. He's okay.

2 (23m 30s):
It wasn't 100% clear what was going on with Zach at that point and J and the others were trying to help him to get him into a car so he could get back to his hotel and sleep, but they also kept filming because that was the entire goal of the week and they thought Zach might want this footage. This is exactly what his book was about and here it was happening. Zach meanwhile was now pretty convinced he was auditioning to play the role of himself on the TV show that again is actually being produced about the time he thought he was on a TV show some blurry calculus told him that his producer friend Jay and jean-marc Vallée must be in communication somehow in the video Zacks on his knees swaying back and forth in front of the taco stand he closes his eyes then opens them and looks toward the camera the one that isn't

1 (24m 20s):
there and I'm saying too much too much too much too much stuff.

2 (24m 30s):
It was freaky to see my friend like this. I've seen people in the park or on the subway acting like Zack was that day. They're just so literally lost and don't know it but you know it it's like they're right beside you on the sidewalk and also in a forest that they can't be guided out of not easily. But in this case Zach was sitting next to me watching with me and he remembers everything that was going through his head at that

1 (24m 57s):
moment. I came to believe that through some combination of jean-marc and my friend here J the producer that we had maybe a yoga instructor who was watching my movements and could tell by the way. I was moving how much pain I was in and where I was in pain. You know what I think I thought they were even shocking my spine somehow

2 (25m 25s):
this back spasms. He thought they were electrical shocks being triggered by this magical imaginary yoga instructor. He moves in and out of different yoga poses on the

1 (25m 33s):
ground and I think that like they're thinking that if we shocked him this way, he would not only move his body to correct his posture that would alleviate his pain but it can also Point him toward whatever camera was capturing the particular footage that was Be sent to jean-marc Vallée the real director of the real series gorilla in the

2 (25m 55s):
bird. Oh, I see so it was both to help you and also for production

1 (25m 58s):
values, right? And when I you see me waving my hand and waving them off that means like I'm not good right now. I don't really want to be

2 (26m 6s):
shot. But you're not saying stop filming to the person who's filming this no, you're saying that

1 (26m 14s):
to the larger production team that doesn't exist. Stop

2 (26m 20s):
which when you think about it takes a certain type of Genius because Zach's original delusion that he was being followed around by cameras had come true. His brain had to come up with a second level delusion that again involved real people the way he explained it to me. It's not like he forgets reality or hallucinates that the camera is really a dragon or something. He's able to take in all the data in front of him. It's just that he comes to the wrong conclusions about it. Finally Zack makes His feet and then walks off to the middle of the parking lot sticks his hand in the air and again says too much too much too much way too much and then he's back down on his knees and finally on his back lying in the parking lot as cars pass him.

2 (27m 10s):
Zack was right about what he said before but I was going to hurt to watch this.

1 (27m 15s):
I think I'm kind of just like roof. Hmm. I think I'm just bracing myself for it the whole time and I'm kind of like rooting for the guy and feeling bad for him and like buddy. Oh, please stop. Oh, please stop but in the same way, I would feel bad for someone I saw on the street was yelling at pigeons, right or whatever, you know, the difference is I know that guy a little better, you know, the guy that we saw in the video a little better I do. Yeah.

2 (27m 49s):
Finally, they managed to get Zach back to his hotel and this is when we learn about a whole other side of psychotic sack one that's even harder for saying Zach to watch. So Rob stays behind and the cast is now Jay the TV producer friend and now two cameramen Trevor and Tyler and went got all of Zach stuff from his mom's house where he'd been staying earlier his medication and his clothes and everything and they roll up his axe hotel room door with one of those standard issue luggage carts, Zach's in the room talking to his mom on speaker phone job one is to get an Ativan into Zach to put him to sleep. They also keep shooting. He opens the door and there are two cameras pointing at him.

1 (28m 32s):
Oh shit. Oh boy,

2 (28m 35s):
you're in sunglasses and a towel got your stuff. It's like Kanye West has answered the door here Zack was about to take a shower and he needed to see the sun glasses are prescription. Jay had his regular one.

1 (28m 49s):
Let me bring this. Let me just let me just go here and let you turn that I'm kind of hammered it up there. So let me go here and I'm gonna let you turn that

2 (28m 57s):
corner. Yeah, you're doing a voice. Yeah,

1 (28m 59s):
your coconut oil your glasses. Bose does nice to have your

2 (29m 5s):
wallet. Zach's pretty disoriented at this point his mom the bird chimes in on speakerphone. Sometimes trying to talk him down. And even those acts discombobulated about almost everything he still thinks he's playing a role even if that role is himself. The blinking red light in his head is still on all the while. Jay is being really caring toward

1 (29m 26s):
him. How are you feeling? Film shocked like literally and figuratively by all this display of

2 (29m 40s):
Jake was about to say something like by all of this display of generosity and caring but of course Zach means he was being shocked by a magical yoga instructor and he's also amazed at all of the planning that went into this

1 (29m 52s):
audition.

2 (29m 59s):
Did you say let's quit acting. Hmm so I can coconut oil my ass,

1 (30m 5s):
which I guess if you think you're acting and someone's filming you then you are acting Coconut oil on that ass

2 (30m 13s):
now you are literally coconut oil in

1 (30m 15s):
your ass. Yes.

2 (30m 16s):
I thought I thought that was a

1 (30m 17s):
euphemism know I do that Jay. Where am I real glasses? Give me my robust barking orders like a real asshole and take it off. Take it off speaker. I'm kind of being an overall Diva here.

2 (30m 32s):
It's true. Like with the coconut oil Zac comes out of the bathroom at one point with the jar and asks, if someone can put some on its back. This is probably the craziest moment of the whole video for Zach to watch Mostly because the Zach in the video doesn't have any problem bossing everyone around Trevor puts his camera down and

1 (30m 52s):
complies just dip a little just I see how this works. Yeah, you got it. Don't don't rub it hard. They're not just this all around. We're just moisturizing now. Well, I'm not robbing heart throbbing heart. No, I'm just I'm just got around fun. Yeah. Yeah. There you go. Are you I'm just like I'm just oiling up. All right. Hey, I'm gonna stop not going good.

2 (31m 21s):
You're like stop stop. No, it's not good. You're not putting coconut oil on my back, right? You

1 (31m 24s):
know just like rub it just now Jays doing it not like no just like like you're putting lotion on heart heart heart. Just put this rub that shit. That's really painful to watch like it's just I'm being such a dick to everybody.

2 (31m 44s):
Well your ear in the florid psychotic

1 (31m 48s):
episode. That's true, but I'm still not being nice and no one there knows me all that. Well, I mean Jade knows me best at this point here, but this is the first he's seen me be in any sort of bad mental state and he's got kids at home. He's got a newborn and he took time out of his schedule to come do this for free and he is taking care of me. He's babysitting you kind of yeah, and he's hiding his exasperation while he deals with me, but then you can see like when he's looking at the camera and we'll call it I Rowley but it's just like the guys obviously frustrated and being pushed to the limits of his patients.

1 (32m 35s):
Yeah, he's doing everything perfect here. Like it's amazing what he's doing? And so when I see that video it makes me want to call Jay my friend, you know in the video and say hey man, I'm sorry. I spoke to you like that, and I'm sorry that I brought that stress into your life. But then on the other side of my mouth, I'll preach to the general public like ain't your fault

2 (33m 3s):
when he does speaking events at bookstores in other places talking about his disorder. He says people shouldn't be ashamed of their own mental illness and their behavior during episodes like this one. His Mantra is always this happens and it's okay

1 (33m 17s):
because I do believe like this happens and it is okay as it relates to everyone else but when I see it happen to myself, I'm like that's not okay man. You gotta get your shit together.

2 (33m 37s):
The Ativan starting to take effect Zacks getting drowsy. He has to fly back to LA the next day, but it's not clearly understands that the bird on speakerphone has been steadily beating a drum trying to coax him away from the cameras the real ones and the imaginary ones and just get him to go to bed sleep of course is the opposite of

1 (33m 58s):
performing Yeah, you're right. You don't need to worry about the clothing right now. So you just like you just need to go to sleep and then just need to coordinate with Trevor how to get you to the airport for your flight. Oh, yeah, cuz I have my earplugs now.

2 (34m 28s):
It looks like he's getting ready to go to sleep. He hangs up with his mom. But then after everyone leaves, he calls her back. It says to work what the hell just happened. She says what do you think happened? He says I'm Jake Gyllenhaal now. She says there's going to be a TV show made out of your book, but you are Zach you aren't messing with me. He says nothing happened just now nothing. She says you need to sleep. You're manic.

1 (34m 58s):
I'm just crushed that that just happened to me like in this moment. I'm kind of realizing that my mind has betrayed me again. Yeah, and I'm just feel so fucking stupid and so embarrassed. Like I mean this is this is humiliating, you know, and it Causes Chaos falter no fault, you know, it's either I wish it was easier to be my friend. I wish I took up less space and the people that love meas lives.

2 (35m 44s):
I watched the video several more times on my own and I realized that maybe there's this one other thing that's unsettling for Zach when he sees the scene in the hotel room. Zach told me he doesn't want to be on TV anymore like we used to but it's clear his delusion still does the Zach in the hotel room still has this naked unfettered ambition of wanting to perform wanting all the cameras on him. It's almost like a little kid's dream of stardom the towel around his waist could just as easily be tied around his neck superhero style. And the Zach watching the video is bashful about that in a way that the Zach in the video is not I didn't think to ask him about this when we were watching it together. So I called him later and set it on the phone.

1 (36m 26s):
Yeah, I think there's probably yeah, I think that's probably true. It's almost like I've kind of renounced the hustle in my normal day-to-day this lying naked Pursuit Of Fame and stardom. but Yeah, like you're saying my ID keeps going no, dude, you're not fooling anybody least of all your own brain.

2 (36m 55s):
This is what you

1 (36m 56s):
want except that. You're a performer. Yeah. I'm so shy about my acting aspiration, but I didn't even realize

2 (37m 5s):
that. It's sort of like saying Zach set the stage for delusional Zach to get what he wants to be the star. And now that there's video of it saying Zach has to confront what that show actually looks like the Zach show and he's not a fan the full title of Zach's book is gorilla and the bird A Memoir of Madness and a mother's love I could talk about how great and hilarious and important. I think it is, but I've already annoyed a lot of people doing that so see for yourself.

2 (37m 46s):
Coming up that one mistake that haunts you you just can't get over it. And then you watch the same screw up happen all over again four decades later. That's in a minute from Chicago public radio when our program continues It's This American Life. I'm Sean coal and for Ira Glass Today's Show, seeing yourself in the wild stories of people who get to get to reluctantly decide to come face-to-face with an unedited version of who they are and what they do with that information and I am now delighted to bring you act 2 of our show act two distant replay.

2 (38m 28s):
So the story is about a man who's been reliving this one moment from his life over and over again. He remembers every last detail of how it felt how it changed his life and then 40 years later someone shows up with a recording of that thing. Emmanuel Barry explains the man is my dad. And the thing he cannot let go of is a high school basketball game from 1978. I found out about the game when I was a kid. My mom had saved this old newspaper clipping or maybe it was a yearbook. But either way there's this picture of my dad on a basketball court and when I brought it to her she told me not to ask my dad about it.

2 (39m 8s):
And so I never brought it up, but it bugged me because basketball is the one thing my dad and I share of my four siblings. I'm the only one who fell for the game. Like my dad. I loved being on the court the sound of squeaking shoes creaking floors the way the entire space at the gym would vibrate the way my body would twist and turn and pivot to the basket. I loved basketball, but I also love the attention my dad gave me because of it in the car after games. We don't know why the hell out of the rest of my family by detecting my every move figuring out what I could improve on what I did. Well it was We are speaking our own language together. We laid out Big Dreams for my future Club teams High School Star College the WNBA, but when I got to high school, I cared less about the game our postgame talk stopped feeling like conversations and started sounding like lectures.

2 (40m 2s):
I started to dread the car rides home and there's one ride for my junior year of high school that I still think about all the time. I was walking to my dad's car after the game. And as soon as I close the door it started. Why didn't you do this you need to do this. How could you do this as I listened to the study rhythm of my dad's critique. I realized these lectures weren't about me or what I wanted they were about him. So I did something. I'd never done before shut the fuck up. I shouted he was taken aback for a moment, and then Stony silence waiting for an apology, but it was an apology.

2 (40m 42s):
I wouldn't give I told him that I didn't want to talk about basketball with him anymore. And if that's all he wanted to talk about we didn't need to talk so we didn't for over a year. We barely spoke to each other. A lot of time has passed. I haven't picked up a bond forever. Neither has my dad the silence is long gone, but there's something that hasn't been repaired nowadays. We just exchanged basketball pleasantries. Did you watch that game? How does a team look this year LeBron? LeBron LeBron basketball gives us the illusion that we knew each other, but I'm not sure we do and I've been wanting to know my dad better to talk to him about something real something that matters to him.

2 (41m 30s):
So that high school basketball game from 1978 seems like a good place to start. I visited my parents in Michigan and when I walk into the living room, of course is a college basketball game on in the background. My dad's in his usual position sunken into his recliner even sitting down. He still big long arms. His hands make the remote look teeny. I asked him to talk upstairs.

1 (41m 59s):
What I Hear anyway is okay with me okay, I go to sleep no,

2 (42m 4s):
he can't go to sleep we're talking I'm nervous. My dad is intimidating we chitchat for a long time before I bring up the game and that old photo of my mom had kept and I remember her saying that it was sad and that I shouldn't mention it.

1 (42m 22s):
That picture was us the final game when we lost in the semi-finals. I blame myself for losing that

2 (42m 29s):
game. Why? There's a lot in that sigh my dad grew up poor in Mississippi the youngest of 11 and for him basketball was away to college but in the 10th grade, he suffered a serious knee injury his knee would swell when he ran so he had to stop playing but he got an unlikely second chance before his senior year of high school his family moved to Michigan their surgeon found bone shards under my dad's knee cap. He removed them and the swelling stopped.

2 (43m 9s):
My dad could play basketball again that dream to get a basketball scholarship to go to college was back on my dad joined his high school basketball team. They were called The Everett Vikings and they were good. They'd won the state championship the previous year the star of that team was this guy named Irvin, but most people just call a Magic Johnson even in high school. They call them that the coaches thrilled when my dad joined because he was tall and the team have lost Magic Johnson and all of their height as the season progressed my dad flourished. He was a strong rebounder. He could dunk even got a nickname.

1 (43m 45s):
They wanted to try to figure out a name for me nickname for me. They already have one for urban as everybody know Tim Scott. Nickname Earvin Magic Johnson, one of the sportscaster found out I'm sure Mississippi during the game new ride dunk the ball. He said Mississippi Slammer. That's where they got the name the Mississippi Slimmer,

2 (44m 8s):
his team was cruising through the season to the state playoffs, which brings us to the game. I was never supposed to ask about it was a semi finals the team was supposed to wear suits to the game, but my dad didn't have one. So I had to get one at the last minute. He missed the pep rally and he got to the gym late. My dad remembers going to the locker room the starting lineups being announced and when the game started he says he just felt off he remembers this one play in particular where he says everything fell apart.

1 (44m 37s):
I grabbed a rebound off the backboard above. the rim and I go up Above the Rim to where I'm basically all I had to do just dropped the ball in the basket. Instead I threw it across the basket. And I never will forget it. It was just it was hard on me because that was a turning point in the game that I'd made me feel that I lost the

2 (45m 8s):
game. How long do you think you carried around that one little moment?

1 (45m 15s):
I'd still carrying around obviously. I'm still talked about that.

2 (45m 21s):
What do you think would make you not carry it around with

1 (45m 24s):
you? I don't know. I can go back in time and redo it.

2 (45m 32s):
They lost the game by just a few points. Did it feel like opportunities were closing for you? Would that game?

1 (45m 39s):
Yeah, have we ever thought I play better and we would have won that game. We would have been in the finals. And there would have been more visual eyes on us. And the thing was is that I was only out there for one year because I came up here in my senior year. So nobody really knew who I was for me to get more exposure. We needed to continue to win and when we didn't win, I think it's just a lot of opportunities for me to be seen went out the window. I have a lot of resentment about the opportunities that I felt that my it could have changed my life and from way we are now.

2 (46m 28s):
When my dad says where we are now, he means no college degree a career managing restaurants raising five kids and making ends meet where we are now is missing part of a lung and slipped us where we are now is no kidneys and dialysis while still working 60 hour weeks. It's been over 40 years since he missed that shot. Maybe that's how long it takes to mourn an alternative universe but part of me also wonders isn't that long enough to let it go to see that? It's just a game that where we are now is also 40 years of marriage and kids who went to college one even to Yale, not me and it's not like my dad hates his job.

2 (47m 11s):
I've never thought of our life as anything other than a good one. I got it in my head that if he could watch the game, he'd see things differently. Maybe he didn't play so badly. Maybe he's just being hard on himself. And I wanted to see it. I've never seen him play. So I look for the tape everywhere his high school TV stations the Michigan High School Athletic Association and then a few months later my dad reconnected with one of his high school teammates, and he said I have a copy of the game. And not only that but he and the other guys on the team had a different take of how my dad played they said they remembered him playing great that he's the reason they even stayed in the game.

2 (47m 54s):
He gave the tape to my dad. My Dad tried to watch it once but didn't get too far. So a few weeks ago. We sat down in the living room to watch the game together. All right, you ready?

1 (48m 7s):
I think so you think so. Are you worried right now? Nervous

2 (48m 13s):
might what are you nervous about

1 (48m 15s):
watching myself? 40 years ago playing basketball revisiting those moments But my teammates said that I played very like a bear or beast or whatever. I would like to see that part of the video versus what I perceive that I did not play very well. So so from that perspective, I would like to see that version the Beast

2 (48m 49s):
the Beast the Mississippi

1 (48m 50s):
Slammer, you know, I take anything. Here we go.

2 (48m 57s):
A grainy black-and-white cork comes into Focus players Zoom towards the basket and layup lines. Lots of them have afros

1 (49m 5s):
can you tell which one is me?

2 (49m 9s):
Not yet. Well, it's all over the place. Then I see him. It's his body language. So like my little brother's that it gives him away. This is Nash name. Is that

1 (49m 19s):
you? Yes, that's me.

2 (49m 21s):
He's sporting a white jersey and teeny tight white shorts that are very shy of his knees tube socks and high top sneakers the shoes make me cringe ankle support apparently was not a thing and he's way skinnier than I've ever known him sot me.

1 (49m 40s):
Yeah 189 pounds them. Vikings as I met

2 (49m 43s):
the last time you were a hundred and eighty yeah in high school the team's line up at the big asset half court for the jump ball. My dad loses a jump the other team picks the ball down the court fires off a quick jumper that bounces off the rim. My dad's team takes the ball down and throws up a shot and also mrs. My dad grabs the rebound Bobby Barry. That's my dad. The funny thing. Is that as he watches he seems to forget that he knows how this game ends and he's watching it. Like any other game on TV. Come on. My dad's team scores the first two baskets. It's for nothing, but the lead doesn't seem to matter to him.

2 (50m 26s):
He's already down on himself. What are you seeing right now me standing? Yeah. Yep. What do you mean?

1 (50m 35s):
Um, I don't go to the ball. I go away from the ball. Watch the ball come to this side now watch where I go up to side. The ball

2 (50m 43s):
I start to say things like it just started. It's not that bad. I'm pointing on every good thing. He does look you just got an offensive rebound and I'm so busy talking. I almost missed the play that's haunted my dad as Lasky to Tony Daniel high post drives around his head puts it up. No good. You got the bird.

1 (51m 3s):
There it is that the

2 (51m 4s):
shot. Was that it?

1 (51m 10s):
Yeah, that was the shot. You want to scroll the basket? No, I don't want to see it again. Once this is no.

2 (51m 22s):
The play is over so quick. It's just a second on the screen. And the thing is after that shot his teammate rebounds the ball and puts it in. In other words the miss. It didn't matter they still score but it did matter to my dad. He never really recovers and for the rest of the game. He misses shot after shot though. It's not all bad. He makes a monster block on the next play. The watching he barely seems to notice. Next lay down. He's fouled on the shot. So he gets two free throws. Yeah free

1 (51m 57s):
throws. That's what I mean. You made it here three though. I made missed a shot

2 (52m 5s):
to 2 feet away. I keep trying to get him to see what his teammates all he won't you guys are up by quite a bit.

1 (52m 14s):
Yeah, I know. That's the point. We lost.

2 (52m 22s):
And half time it's 20 to 21. My dad's team is up by one but by the second half it's as if my dad remembers what he's watching and How It Ends no more yelling. He just sort of sits hand over mouth quiet. And this is where I start to think wait is he mad at me? I started to worry that this was a terrible idea. This isn't going to make him feel better rather than think about one mistake in a game from 40 years ago. He can now watch 40 minutes of

1 (52m 53s):
mistakes

2 (52m 58s):
the game remains closed and I can see what his teammates are saying about him being a beast. He's pulling down lots of rebounds. He is the reason they're still in the game, but he's not scoring much then in the fourth quarter their opponent pulls ahead by just a few a my dad's team can't catch up. It's over.

1 (53m 18s):
53 in Lansing Everett,

2 (53m 21s):
the camera shows one final moment of my dad. It's Zooms in on him before he heads into the locker room. He leans down wrapping his arms around his coach consoling him. My father at the kitchen table has far less compassion for himself. How are you feeling

1 (53m 41s):
depressed, but I can't do anything about it. It's like I said is a sad to see that game over again. That's for sure. And I didn't still I feel the same way. I felt that I did not play very well. The way I felt that I should.

2 (54m 1s):
My dad finally got to see how this moment actually looked from the outside and it didn't change anything for him.

1 (54m 8s):
You can't imagine that things were different the tapes proves the way I felt that I played is what the tape shows

2 (54m 16s):
when we were watching. I worried that I'd upset my dad. I had well you re opening or warm me.

1 (54m 24s):
Yes white making me watch this

2 (54m 25s):
game and that make you that upset.

1 (54m 28s):
I'm not upset. It just reopened sit and read making me visit. It is not

2 (54m 32s):
necessary to My Hope Was That by watching it would make you feel better. Like you could like let go of it

1 (54m 41s):
on the way. I probably can never let go of it is go back into time and reverse everything is that not your enemy take? I think that's probably what it would take.

2 (54m 50s):
I think it makes me upset that you feel upset or that you feel depressed about this because it

1 (54m 58s):
just I know it's just a

2 (55m 0s):
game. It's not it's not just a game. It's just that it's so long ago and that like, oh, yeah. Let me

1 (55m 7s):
examine my life. I am very I'm a very blessed and happy

2 (55m 11s):
man. Well, that's it though. That's exactly it just feels like this is such an insignificant thing to all of like the great shit that you have going on in your

1 (55m 20s):
life what the language sorry?

2 (55m 23s):
My dad did point out one positive thing in the video that I couldn't have noticed. You know what I said to my coach would you

1 (55m 30s):
say, I'm sorry, sir.

2 (55m 35s):
Were you sorry for

1 (55m 37s):
losing the game? Now I got to go. I do never never told anybody what I said to my coach, what did he say back? Now you played your ass

2 (55m 49s):
off. At this point we've been talking for close to an hour. And I realize what I'm doing isn't working. I've been keeping things positive trying to make my dad see something else sugarcoating it and you know what? I hate I hate when people sugarcoat things the truth was he was right. He didn't play. Well that dunk. He really did pass the ball over the rim instead of just dropping it in after that. He only scored three points. He played exactly the way he told me not to play for most of my basketball career hanging out around the basket hands down. He missed easy putbacks. He did rebound well, but without him is the threat offensively his team suffered.

2 (56m 33s):
I think he's absolutely right if he'd played better. They would have won maybe what he needed wasn't to see himself differently. What he needed was for someone to see him just the way he is. I mean to be frank it was not a great game for you,

1 (56m 49s):
wasn't it? Great. It was a horrible

2 (56m 50s):
game. I wanted you to also see yourself a basket one. I think I was hoping that it would be

1 (56m 56s):
different than you imagined. Why would you think that?

2 (56m 60s):
Because I always imagined that I played like shit and I like to think I don't look that bad.

1 (57m 7s):
Well, you see

2 (57m 10s):
we chatted a little longer my dad looking drained. I think a little sad it was late in the Raptors were about to play the bucks. So I left my dad to watch this game. I spent the evening pretending to read but really I was worried about what I just did. The next morning my dad told me he had something he wanted to say, you know.

1 (57m 33s):
I actually felt a sense of relief after watching a game with you. I don't think I would have watched it. Tell you the truth. So getting through that with someone that you care and for them to sit there and watching just be brutally honest. Like you said, I'll pay you like shit, excuse my language, but those things are important.

2 (58m 5s):
And that's what I wanted to talk to my dad about the important things. And since I started this conversation, we've been doing that more and more we've talked about his childhood in Mississippi about his health like how dialysis is so depleting and about his own parents and how he sees them our conversations are not always the Steep, but you know what, they're not always about they're not always about basketball. Emmanuel Barry is one of the producers of our

1 (58m 41s):
show

2 (58m 42s):
a version of the story appeared on the nod a podcast that tell stories about Black Culture that you won't hear anywhere else like LeVar Burton discussing the love life of Black Star Trek characters. You can find the nod wherever you get your podcasts. Our program was produced today by Minima seats. He's and Nadia Raymond. Our staff includes Bim out a wound May L know Baker Emanuel Barry Ben Calhoun Zoe chased an activist Vive de kornfeld Neil drumming Hillary Elkins Damien grave Michelle Harris at Lind Wiki Meek Stone Nelson, Catherine Romano, Robin Simeon.

2 (59m 22s):
Christopher's wa'ta'ala Matt Tierney and Nancy Updike are managing editors Diane. Whoo, executive editor David kazdin bomb special. Thanks today to dr. Cindy Cisneros mcgillvary. Jason heydrich Rob. How's Trevor Cushing? Tyler? Rick's true or lie Hagen Farley Chase Eileen Barry Tony Daniels, or hey, Jess and Sam Greenspan our website this American life.org where you can stream or archive of over six hundred episodes for absolutely free This American Life dot-org This American Life is delivered to public radio stations by PRX the public radio exchange. Thanks as always to my boss Ira Glass. So this is weird. I called him to ask me about the show this And he was at the beach with his pet donkey and I'm like, what are you what are you doing?

2 (1h 0m 7s):
And he's like

1 (1h 0m 8s):
coconut oil on that ass now.

2 (1h 0m 10s):
I'm Sean Cole. I wrote will be back next week with more stories of This American Life.