1 (1s):
Support for This American Life comes from rocket mortgage by Quicken Loans making the home buying process work for you their team. Is there with award-winning client service and support get started at Rocket mortgage.com American Equal Housing lender licensed in all 50 states and MLS consumer access dot org number 30 30 a quick warning. There are curse words that are unbeaten today's episode of the show. If you prefer a beeped version, you can find that at our website This American Life dot-org. I think probably every two years. I read an article about some scientist who thinks there might be a way building off chicken DNA or whatever to figure out the DNA of dinosaurs and bring one to life.

1 (48s):
I feel like I run into these stories all the time. There were there scientist a couple years ago who were talking about how you could take Neanderthal DNA and use it to create new neanderthals or this is I think the real is one going. I think this is an actual thing. There's a team led by a Harvard scientist trying to bring back the woolly mammoth That's right The Woolly Mammoth and I've heard of them tromping through the Siberian Tundra. That's the actual plan. And can I just say I Know You Scientist you have your reasons, but whenever I read the stuff, I think did you guys not see Jurassic Park?

2 (1m 23s):
Have we learned nothing from the movies

1 (1m 24s):
your scientists were so preoccupied with whether or not they could they didn't stop to think of the shot. Thank you, Jeff Goldblum.

2 (1m 30s):
Dr. Frankenstein cleanse the body parts of dead

1 (1m 32s):
people sews them together on a lab table Johnson with some electricity very showy electricity there. I say the creature comes to life and then does things the scientist did not anticipate at all and intended consequences. My friends

2 (1m 46s):
is not just in the movies, by the

1 (1m 47s):
way, of course as we all know discoveries in subatomic physics left the lab decades later. We got nuclear bombs scientists constructive ways to computers and network with each other in the 60s now half century later we end up with Russians trolling our elections through social media. Cylons, return to Caprica to kill all the humans who invented them. Okay, that one's not real. But my point is the same unintended consequences. They happen when the experiment leaves the lab and today on our show. We have three examples three telling examples from three very different kinds of labs one of them. Okay, one of those labs actually just a laboratory of human feelings, but still from WBEZ Chicago, it's This American Life.

1 (2m 31s):
I'm Ira Glass stay with us. Gwen breakout star. Okay. So we begin with this experiment gone wrong. Like I said, this is not a traditional experiment not a traditional vibratory but a laboratory of human emotion one very familiar to lots of people I'm talking about the reality TV show The Bachelor been around for twenty three seasons. Every season, of course is romance made in a Petri dish. They throw on one guy dozens of women each week. The guy ejects a few women from the petri dish until there is just one left and that's how it went until last season when for the first time one of the labs subjects a very important one escaped the lab with yes unintended consequences one of our producers Emanuel Barry tells what happened

2 (3m 31s):
I've been watching The Bachelor for years and I've never seen anything like what happened on episode 9 of season 23. There's this one moment that felt so real that I haven't shut up about it. Okay, so it's almost the last episode of the season it's a bachelor. So, of course, they're filming and a romantic location a beautiful property in Portugal The Bachelor this time around is: Underwood. He's 26 tall Sandy hair handsome a former football player. And as the show has mentioned a million times, he's a virgin I could care less online ice all fans of the show

1 (4m 9s):
described him as sweet and sincere. My roommate one's called him America's chicken nugget. I'm here to fall in love. So hopefully by the end of this I'm down on one knee you could lose this show is a Monday night tradition in my

2 (4m 22s):
apartment my roommate and I opened a bottle of red wine and for two hours. We enjoy

1 (4m 26s):
some choreographed drama

2 (4m 28s):
contestants who aren't there for the right reasons?

1 (4m 31s):
And Bachelors who didn't know it would

2 (4m 33s):
be so hard tearful eliminations the entire thing. It's kind of silly. It's

1 (4m 39s):
actually a total mess,

2 (4m 41s):
but I'm so into

1 (4m 43s):
it.

2 (4m 47s):
So back to that dramatic moment. It's nighttime in Portugal and Colton has been dumped by the girl of his dreams. He has shut himself into his room.

1 (5m 1s):
I'm done. I'm done with this.

2 (5m 2s):
He says I'm done. I'm done with this cue the most dramatic

1 (5m 6s):
music

2 (5m 8s):
he throws up in the door and his hand is suddenly covering the entire TV screen. Then the strange thing happens. Suddenly the invisible TV crew becomes very visible cameramen find their way into the frame. Colton is running down the stairs. He's taking off his mic and the producers start calling for

1 (5m 28s):
Chris.

2 (5m 32s):
Chris Harrison is the host of the show who's forever popping into scenes unannounced and I always feel like wait. Why? Are

1 (5m 38s):
you here

2 (5m 41s):
Colin's walking away from Chris ignoring everyone and then he reaches his big white fence like an industrial security gate. It's maybe like 8 feet tall and without hesitation in one powerful graceful movement. He leaps up and pulls himself over. He's on the other side in a heartbeat. It's the type of move

1 (6m 0s):
Captain America would do.

2 (6m 5s):
And then Chris Harrison utters. What is perhaps my favorite line in the history of the bachelor. He just jump that's

1 (6m 12s):
there but that opens a gate the crew takes what feels like a while to actually get the gate open and when they finally do: is gone. He is gone

2 (6m 25s):
The Bachelor has escaped for 3 minutes. I watch as a search for him calling his name someone starts whistling like they're looking for a dog

1 (6m 37s):
Carlton. I have no idea where he went they get into cars and they're driving around and finally they spot him on the side of the road. No, I'm not. Okay cool and keeps walking away. Chris

2 (6m 57s):
tries to get him to talk manages to get him to walk toward a car but: insists. It's over. He says I can't do this. I'm done then commercial and when we come back, it's the next day and it's bright and sunny and Chris Harrison is knocking on Colin's daughter talked and it all feels sort of normal.

1 (7m 20s):
Hey, bro, so, I don't know.

2 (7m 26s):
And I'm watching at home and I'm confused like didn't he just say he was done with the show yet here. He is talking with Chris planning his next move on the show. It's never explained how Colton went from running away in quitting to being back in front of the cameras. Like where did he go? How long was he gone and most important what made him decide to come back? Like what actually happened the TV show gave no satisfying answer to any of that so hey: hey, how are you? Good? How are you doing? I call them: says when he signed up to be the bachelor, he'd already been on The Bachelorette.

2 (8m 7s):
So he believed he understood how the

1 (8m 9s):
show worked. I thought that I did. I thought that I had a lot of it figured out and I was wrong

2 (8m 14s):
he explained that the whole fence jump goes back to a confusion of his own making so on each episode their dates with the bachelor. Some are one-on-one. Some are Group dates and sometimes contestants don't get selected for a date at all, which sucks because it's really the only time you get to spend with the Bachelor and: told me something I didn't know watching the show that to figure out who goes on these dates producers are constantly checking in with a bachelor

1 (8m 44s):
to figure out who

2 (8m 45s):
he likes like one of the women he initially hit it off with was Hannah.

1 (8m 49s):
They always asked, you know to rank the girls and very early on, you know was up there and she got left off of a

2 (8m 57s):
date in other words in the beginning when there were over 20 contestants this woman Hannah was his number-one pick, but they didn't schedule a date with her

1 (9m 5s):
and I sort of recall remember feeling a little burnt when they did that I was like, so let me get this straight Hannah's number one on my list right now and she's not getting a date this week. So from there on out. I was like, all right, if you're going to do that to my top girls. I'm not really going to tell you who my top girls are because I don't want you messing with them. So in a weird way, I tried to defend Myself and defend the girls by not being truthful to them who my topless.

2 (9m 30s):
So even after Hannah stop being his favorite.

1 (9m 33s):
I just kept the top the same. So Hannah was always at the top of the list when I always made the list for them to see and I never changed

2 (9m 40s):
it. It's so interesting because it feels like you're like learning their game and then coming up with ways to sort of like

1 (9m 45s):
either foil it are like protect yourself or

2 (9m 48s):
like put yourself in a better position. Like what did you find yourself doing that throughout the entire process?

1 (9m 54s):
Well, yeah, so like that's just me wanting to set myself up for Success

2 (9m 58s):
while: kept putting Hannah as his number one pick each week the girl he fell for hardest was actually Cassie.

1 (10m 6s):
You look amazing. How are you

2 (10m 9s):
good on a scale of one to hot Colton is hot. I feel like we do have some chemistry and I'm looking forward to just diving right in she's got a surfer Vibe on hair beachy waves. They had chemistry, but as a viewer, she didn't seem like a front-runner. I kind of kept forgetting who Cassie was

1 (10m 29s):
I think with Casa best way to describe our relationship is it was such a slow burn and it was in a weird way in the dynamic of the bachelor franchise where it's supposed to be quick and fast and intense. It was sort of a relief to find a normal relationship in which it was a slower burn and wish it was it was a more realistic approach to a relationship. And I don't I think it was just it was almost like when I was cast it was like a breath of fresh

2 (10m 59s):
air. So toward the end of the season they're down to just three women Cassie his favorite Hannah who the producers think is his favorite and taoiseach the token black girl. They're all in Portugal and they each have an overnight date scheduled with: but someone has to be eliminated by the end of the episode.

1 (11m 20s):
I don't know exactly what the producers intended.

2 (11m 22s):
They declined my request for an interview, but watching the show it seemed like they were trying to get Cassie to quit. They threw a wrench and her in Colton's relationship a wrench shaped. Like Cassie's dad: had met Cassie's dad and an earlier episode when he asked for permission to propose mind you he did this for nearly all the remaining contestants. McAfee's dad said no,

1 (11m 46s):
so I feel like as far as the hand in marriage. That would be a premature blessing. I see where you're coming from. That's not exactly what I wanted to hear

2 (11m 59s):
a week later in Portugal: certain about Cassie. Cassie's confused again. I have no idea what the producers were thinking but when I was watching it, it seemed like they were forcing Cassie's hand the show allows a special guest to visit

1 (12m 16s):
later in that episode her dad actually shows up which nobody just accidentally shows up in Portugal. So the producers producers paid been a pretty hefty price to fly that man on out to Portugal to come visit and spend time with his daughter to give her Clarity Cassie's dad talks to her

2 (12m 33s):
and she decides to leave the show

1 (12m 36s):
there shouldn't be any hesitation in your mind when you meet somebody that you want to spend the rest of your life with none. Lifelong decision it's not something you make if you're unsure Cassie decides to tell: at dinner normally during the dinners and during that, you know, the producers are our sort of hovering or there are around to help the conversation flow or there just to like bounce ideas off of you know, when you guys are talking when we had that dinner, there wasn't a producer in sight. There was just the cameras and there was just the audios everybody else ran and they didn't want to be near it because I think they knew that I knew knew that they set him up.

1 (13m 17s):
He means

2 (13m 17s):
at dinner Cassie tells him she's leaving and she mentions that her dad is here in Portugal and that they've been talking: clearly has no idea that this was happening and he turns as a looking for someone. Oh,

1 (13m 34s):
I was thinking I just got screwed. I was thinking that you know, that wasn't her doing. I know what the format of the show is and for me hearing Hey by the My dad came back really like spark something in me. I was like, okay, so I don't have the control. I thought I had if I feel like, you know, my relationships going to be messed with our toyed with that all I'm going to be done especially at this point. I've completely fallen in love. I've completely like gave myself all to her. I mean I had nothing to lose at that point besides the girl in the woman that I wanted to spend the rest of my life

2 (14m 6s):
with so Colin's about to lose the girl that he loves and in a perverse way. It's kind of his fault when Colton started lying about who he liked most on his list the shows not really built for that is if an inanimate test subject suddenly became sentient basically, he compromised the entire experiment he sort of played himself. I

1 (14m 28s):
think that it backfired because then they were like, whoa, we thought it was Hannah because you kept telling us like even on your list like when you drank them like Hanna's one

2 (14m 36s):
and and so in the end Kathy ends up basically sort of breaking up with you and leave it, right.

1 (14m 43s):
Yeah, so we walk and I just get up and we want start walking to the car and it was in the dark like there. I remember like there was a sidewalk we were supposed to stay on it was like completely lit and I was like, we're not staying on the side lock like I started right then and there I was like, I'm not I'm not doing showy things anymore. Like I'm not doing things just to go through the motions of being The Bachelor. So, you know, I was starting to run through scenarios in my head as I put her, you know in the van and said goodbye to her. I was like, all right, I'm gonna go upstairs. I'm gonna grab my wallet first off. I got to get away from these people. I have to lose my mic. I have to lose a cameras. I have to like just be by myself and my plan was to get out of there and go grab a new passport because they did have my passport sounds like I have my wallet I have you like I'm gonna go get A New Path I'm done.

1 (15m 30s):
I wanted to be done. I didn't want to talk to the people show. I was about to pay for my own flight to get home. Like I was like, I literally was done talking to everybody. So I went up I grab my wallet and I remember like opening the door in the first thing I see is like a camera. There and if I had any regrets from the night, the only regret would be is actually hitting and putting a hand on the camera because that's not my property. But you know, I was heated. So I hit the camera just to get it out of my way and go went down the stairs and that's when I like I undid my mic and once I did that I think they had an idea of what was coming next and I remember like walking up to the fence and I had no clue how to open it.

1 (16m 12s):
I didn't want to wait for people to open it. So without hesitation without even thinking I was like screw it. I'm over this thing. Let's do it and I just gathered myself in jumped over the fence fully expecting the other side to have people producers handlers the food tent. I mean the scale of this show is so big that there's people everywhere you can never get by yourself. I mean, there's so many hands on deck all of these things, but I jumped the fence and there was nothing It was Darkness. It was fields and it for me. I was like, this is awesome. So I was like, I'm here I was like I don't want them to catch up.

1 (16m 54s):
So I started running

2 (16m 55s):
so you ran you took

1 (16m 57s):
off I ran I took off and if like, I'm the worst with directions like I'm very directionally challenged and I had no clue where I was going. I remember being having a ton of bright lights over 200 left. So I was like, I'm just going to run towards the lights and hopefully I get there granted these lights are like 40 miles away 30 miles away. I was like, let's do it. I was running in Boots and tight jeans, which is the worst combination ever to run in and I remember hearing in the distance the producer start yelling my name so I knew they were like chasing after

2 (17m 31s):
me. Where did you hide like, you're a big dude like

1 (17m 34s):
were you hiding behind a tree where you in? Oh like it was dangerous to because I had no clue what what the laws were in Portugal like I was hopping personal. Is I was hiding behind people's cars. I was laying down in ditches. And finally, I hopped through like a backyard and there's like a chain link fence and all of a sudden like I hear I hear these animals and they sort of sounded like dogs and I love dogs. I'm a big dog person. But this this was like an aggressive like growling howling thing and I'd like I was like, all right. This is probably a little dangerous. I probably am a little in over my head here trying to get back and find a passport. So I'll just turn myself in I was gone for about a good two hours.

1 (18m 15s):
You were gone for two hours. It was yeah when it was all said and done

2 (18m 21s):
so he turns himself in not to police of course, but to reality TV, he does this by walking to the main road till someone finds him. When they do he's still upset and overwhelmed and not ready to talk. So he plays the system. He says there's a rule that you cannot be filmed or recorded while talking to the show's therapist. So he asked for that. He says they talked for an hour while he vented and figure it out his next

1 (18m 48s):
move. And then finally he was ready to talk to producers.

2 (18m 53s):
What was that game planner that conversation like like did they have to convince you to come back? Because you know at that point you were saying that you were you were done right if Cassie wasn't going to be there. You were

1 (19m 2s):
like you seen very done also. Yeah. Yes. So the

2 (19m 5s):
yeah, what was what was the conversation like to get you two to come back to the

1 (19m 10s):
show? So the conversation was, you know, well, obviously they just wanted to hear me out. They wanted to hear what I had to say and then the game plan was to talk to Cass again, but I only want to do that after I talked to the other two women.

2 (19m 22s):
The lab rat is suddenly running the lab Colton wants to break up with the other two contestants so we can make it clear to Cassie that Is the one that he wants and they don't have to get married. This goes totally against the show's format. It means no final to know big bro ceremony. No proposal seen all

1 (19m 42s):
of these sacred touch stones are just gone from the show.

2 (19m 45s):
It's like watching the Olympics without the medal ceremony at the end. So you felt like you sort of had more power maybe a little more leverage to have control when you went back.

1 (19m 57s):
Well, I think I mean, I think it was just me. They knew I was serious like when I say, it's one thing when leads okay, I'm done like it's okay, but like you turn around and you're in an interview the next minute, it's like you're not done. You're right. You're sitting right in front of them you're doing exactly what they want you to do. So they knew not to were like really cross that line

2 (20m 16s):
in the end. He gets what he wants. He talks to Cassie they decide to date and not get engaged: is still friends with the producers and he says he and Cassie are still together and very happy. The

1 (20m 30s):
promos for: season of The

2 (20m 35s):
Bachelor were all about the fence jump they tease viewers with footage of the jump my roommate and I watched every week asking is this the week he does it there's a Twitter account dedicated to the question articles guessing when and why it would happen the week. He finally jumped we threw a party in my apartment. There was a cake with a fence what I one of the things that I think is so sort of interesting about the situation is like the you know, the very big independent act that you did which was deciding like to basically run away from the show which hasn't happened before and then like that sort of active independence got taken and then that was like the promo for the

1 (21m 20s):
season right like from episode 1 it was like when is cold

2 (21m 23s):
and gonna jump the fence when is cold and gonna jump the fence over and over again, like watching those promos how It feel seeing this moment end up being used like as a piece of plot.

1 (21m 38s):
That was sort of hard for me to deal with because in a way they're teasing it America is making jokes about it making memes about it. And it's like that's their number one marketing and selling piece. Meanwhile, I know the seriousness behind it. I didn't really realize I didn't even know if they were going to put that in the show until obviously I saw the trailer of me jumping the fence and then I realized that they probably had to

2 (22m 1s):
in the end the most disruptive thing that could have happened driving your lead to jump over a fence and run away was probably the best thing that could have happened for the TV show ratings for Colton's finale were up compared to the previous season, which makes sense because hopping offense it felt real. Those are the moments. I like the most in reality shows the rare moments of sincere emotion inside this artificial human experiment cameras everywhere and same locations over the top closed the producers can control all that stuff. Scientists can control the lab, but they can't control the

1 (22m 38s):
results. Manuel Barry is one of the producers of our show. Oh good. Give me love. Lots of land under Starry skies above known Fence Me In let me ride to the wide-open country that I love no offense me back to Two Times a Lady. Okay. So a product is developed in a lab then after months and months. It's allowed out in the world for the first time.

1 (23m 21s):
It does something that its creators really did not intend it somehow pits men against women industry leaders against an inventor intimate seats these reports.

2 (23m 32s):
She was most of the way through 2018 and Laura haddock was making something new biomimicry is literally translating human or biological movement and We're translating that into micro robotics. So Actually created brand new mechanical workings that have never been created before Laura knew that would she and her team were working on was Innovative, but it wasn't until her newly appointed publicist encouraged her to submit it for awards that she really started seeing her new invention for what it was that day. She looked at us and she said you need to apply for Tech Awards because this is serious Tech and I mean you guys just made a robot a robot named Jose Jose left its lab in Oregon sent out into the world for the first time to apply for this award an innovation award at CES.

2 (24m 26s):
That's the consumer electronic show. One of the largest trade shows in the world with more than a hundred and seventy thousand attendees in recent years run by the consumer technology Association, the CTA tens of thousands of new tech products debut at CES among them. Historically are the VCR the camcorder the game Tetris. Winning a CES award is game-changing with it comes industry-wide promotion product listings and ctas trade magazine and the chance to Showcase your product beside the most buzzed about products at the Expo. It's a very big deal it took about a month to get all of our patent documents together that we were submitting and and then we put everything in and then we kind of sat and we waited and there's a handful of Judges that are experts in robotics and drones and they decided that I would say deserved an award and we got that that email and I think I literally went running through the office like yelling at all of our engineers and pretty sure some people cried and it was it was just absolutely astounding and felt so validating.

2 (25m 39s):
The Osa is a robot a robotic sex toy. There's no way to talk about this without acknowledging the existence of Sex and the body parts typically involved. So if you're listening with kids or you don't want to hear about it, this might not be the story for you. Okay, according to its inventors. What makes the oh say different from other sex toys is that it conforms to each user's particular Dimensions stimulating both the G-Spot and the clitoris resulting in a blended orgasm, which is an internal and external orgasm together and the same person at the same time and then you go. Holy shit. That was awesome.

2 (26m 19s):
Do you like do do it again? Or like of course you do it again you then you do it again. Just just for good measure the biomimicry part what's being imitated by the robotics is what Laura calls the come hither motions made by a sexual partners hands

1 (26m 43s):
mouth were both

2 (26m 51s):
for Laura and her team which was largely made up of female Engineers the award meant a frenzy of activity the oh say was still in Prototype. Meaning the design still needed to be finalized the marketing and the product launch still needed planning. I was in an engineering meeting and My phone went off and it was our publicist and I stepped out and I got on the phone and I said is everything okay? And she goes are you sitting down you need to sit down and she tells me that they are revoking our award. She got this news in an email apparently higher-ups got to talking and they said when we had this bigger conversation we decided that we are going to revoke your award and we're very sorry to have made this mistake.

2 (27m 42s):
I literally feel like this right now. I like I weld up I was heartbroken and angry and very confused the email reference to CT a policy that products team by CTA to be immoral or obscene or indecent or profane or not in keeping with ctas image could be disqualified and that CTA reserves the right to disqualify any entry at any time. Laura couldn't help but notice that CTA had very recently been fine with other sex toys so long as they were oriented towards penises and the people those penises were attached to in 2017 CES show the company Nadia America exhibited virtual reality porn.

2 (28m 27s):
You'd put on a headset choose from one of three boy-girl scenes each of them through the eyeballs of the mail in one you're a guy on a workout bench and a woman in yoga pants to squats over you then you have sex and at a media partner show at CES the creator of RealDoll showcased his electronic sex doll Harmony who comes with a removable mouth insert that can be washed Harmony can also be programmed tell you that she loves you and to exhibit character traits like jealous insecure and predictable or helpful Laura took inventory of all this and the fact that oh say got banned and very quickly came to The realization that it had everything to do with the fact that it's an adult product that is geared towards females and people with vaginas and we wrote a letter back to the CTA stating that this is basically that this is absolute crap.

2 (29m 26s):
This is wrong and you know it and they stood by their decision. They said we're very sorry. There was a misunderstanding we did not realize what the nature of your product was and that I did not buy for a second because we looked at our application in the very first sentence of our application. The very first sentence says this is a robot to elicit a blended orgasm that stimulates the clitoris and the G-Spot. So there's no there's no questioning. What kind of product this was.

2 (30m 9s):
CTA has had a pretty tumultuous on-again off-again relationship with the sex industry for decades for a long time sex was actually part of the trade show. Remember VHS tapes some of the first people to make the leap from film to VHS were pouring people and porn viewers were excited to watch porn from home instead of adult movie theaters and booths in the backs of stores and CES wanted to connect content creators with tech manufacturers. It was lucrative. So they let porn companies display at their show, but there were strings attached all adult content was relegated to an entirely different building from the rest of tech porn was still a part of CES but to get to it you have to leave the Las Vegas Convention Center and go to the Sahara which was a casino more than a mile away.

2 (30m 56s):
One of the main porn people back then was Paul fishbein. He founded avian adult video news the quintessential trade magazine of porn.

1 (31m 4s):
You got a little a little stairwell into this ballroom and the booths were like any

2 (31m 10s):
other booth that you would see in any other

1 (31m 12s):
trade show and people would have posters of movies and they would have TVs that would play softcore clips from the movies and they would have you know, tables for porn stars to sit and sign

2 (31m 25s):
autographs. What were some of the big movies in the late 80s early 90s.

1 (31m 29s):
Now, you're really now you're really pushing hold on a second. We're talking late 80s. Yeah. John staliano started his first, but Man movie in 1989 The Adventures of Batman, and he went on to become a major player

2 (31m 48s):
and even though business was good tensions arose corn exhibitors grew resentful. They were being charged the same participation costs as other tech companies, but they weren't getting the same marketing or show placement and then things came to a head in 1998 when CES put up signs by the sex industry section bathrooms that said stop these restrooms are shared with exhibit Personnel in the adult software area. You may choose another bathroom. Thank you. As porn veteran Bryn Pryor who was also avn's managing editor back then told me in an email. The implication of those signs was that sex workers might have quote diseases or molest you or shit on the floor the next year 1999 the divorce porn splintered off from CES avian began hosting their own Expo only for adult content and for a while they still held at the same weekend as CES CES meanwhile ban porn from their show though, obviously some sex stuff still found its way onto the show floor.

2 (32m 55s):
Which brings us back to 2019 with her Tech award gone and her sex toy robot band from CES Laura wrote another letter this one an open letter and posted it to 0 says-- website on midnight January 8th. The day CES was starting in Vegas are very first bit of coverage surfaced right about 9:00 a.m. And all of a sudden like the floodgates opened the story was picked up by Fast Company the New York Times Fortune Gizmodo glamour Cosmo wired the guardian and more headlines, like women's sexuality is still taboo for Tech were popping up and sex toy debacle reveals shameful double standard at CES.

2 (33m 44s):
A month later in February Laura gets an email from the assistant to CTA president Gary Shapiro. He says Gary Shapiro would like to talk to you. Can we schedule a phone call? And I mean at that point I'm nervous. I like what does he want to talk to me about? Okay, we get on the call. And the first thing Gary says is I owe you all a very big apology. We did you a great disservice and and we're very sorry for what's happened. And we realize that we've made we have made a mistake Laura and her team are being given their reward back.

2 (34m 31s):
At the end of the press release came a promise of new and updated policies. They make CES a more quote welcoming and inclusive event for all the First new policy was that they'd include sex products in the CES show on a one-year trial basis. It was not clear why they called this a new policy since sex products were actually in the show the previous year. They said these products would now be in the category Health and Wellness. And they rolled out one other new policy to address something else had gotten a lot of criticism for in the past. They instituted a dress code quote Booth Personnel may not wear clothing that is sexually revealing or clothing that reveals an excess of bare skin or body conforming clothing that hugs genitalia.

2 (35m 15s):
What CES was trying to address was Booth babes Booth babes and see us have always gone together since the 1960s. These are models in revealing clothing or body conforming clothing that hugs genitalia higher to stand next to the tech on the show floor. In a 1986 story for the Toronto Star Jonathan grows wrote quote. The quality of the products was inversely proportional to the chest size of the booth babes handing out the literature Paul fishbein's sold avian years ago to pursue a career in mainstream TV, but when I told him about CSS new policies, he wasn't surprised at all.

1 (35m 56s):
It's the same thing. It's the 2020 version of everything. We just talked about. Nothing has changed sex scares them.

2 (36m 6s):
I reached out to see us for comment they put me on with their Executive Vice President Karen shipka, but there were conditions CES wouldn't speak with me about the history of their show the history of sex tech at their show. Laura's product. The awarded got the award being taken away or the award being given back. All I could ask about was the future of CES. It was a short interview, but there was one thing she said that helped shed a little bit of light on their decision-making I asked what would it take for sex to not come back in 2021 after the 1-year trial and Karen told me that CES is priority is to make everyone who attends the tradeshow feel welcome as long as her 175 thousand attendees aren't offended by seeing sex products at the show sucks products can stay so that's the goal satisfying everyone Laura the inventor.

2 (37m 1s):
She told me that CES actually consulted with her about what category to put sex products into for this one year. Trial CES is Instinct do it like they used to sex in its own category and its own room and I pushed back on that really hard because I didn't want to be sequestered off in the corner. So she argued for sex toys to fall under the health and wellness category. But me, I don't know if I agree when I think of the sex toys that I have used in my lifetime. I probably can't say on the radio when I think of like the sex toys that I have like been aware of in my lifetime the point as I understand it is pleasure.

2 (37m 42s):
And I think it's okay for products to be marketed to women simply for the fact that they create pleasure and I actually just I wonder why health and wellness. I wonder why it couldn't just be in a category called pleasure. Why isn't pleasure just good enough. It is pleasure. But as far as I read it pleasure is also a part of Health and Wellness in this one area. Laura's agenda is a lot like CSS. They both want to sell sex and CES is old solution to the problem was to segregate sex in a separate room and a separate building.

2 (38m 23s):
But Laura doesn't want to risk losing anyone. She wants to sell to everybody on the main floor with the mainstream products. And if calling her sex robot a health and wellness product gets it out of the lab and into the world. She's fine with that. It's still hidden just in a different way.

1 (38m 48s):
Wiedemann see T's is one of the producers of our show. Coming up woman puts on a suit that turns you invisible. What could possibly go wrong in that scenario? That's in a minute. I'm just gonna go public radio when our program continues support for This American Life comes from rocket mortgage by Quicken Loans providing you with an award winning team by your side through the mortgage process. Their goal is to make the home buying process smoother for you with a history of Industry leading online lending technology developed in Detroit rocket mortgage is changing the game visit rocket mortgage.com American Equal Housing lender licensed in all 50 states and MLS consumer access dot org number 30 30 rocket mortgage by Quicken Loans push-button get mortgage.

1 (39m 46s):
This pack life Myra glass each week in a program. Of course, you choose a theme bring you different kinds of stories on that theme Today Show escaped from the lab stories of the unintended consequences. Yes, unintended consequences one of our subject leaves the lab and heads into the bigger World. We've arrived at egg three of our show at three fraud Kutcher. So we understood today with a piece of fiction that was actually written for this episode of our show. In fact, we had this story and then we went looking for the other stories to put with it. It's by one of our co-workers Neo drumming and it's red for us by actor Susan K Watson

2 (40m 21s):
the clerk at the sporting goods store in Georgetown eyes me like I'm taking a dump in his trail mix like a black woman can't purchase camping gear. I toss my new overpriced LL Bean rucksack on the counter with the rest of the stuff. Hope and Chet will just ring it up and keep his opinions to himself. He'll what I really want to do is reach under my collar power up the special adaptive camouflage on my suit and poof disappear right in front of his stupid face. But a I've been a little wary of cloaking since the incident be the suits in the trunk of my car. I'm all Antilla business casual for my meeting today and see Chet his stank eye and not entirely off base.

2 (41m 5s):
Truth is I don't know how to use most of stuff. I'm buying. I was always more of an indoor kid, the whole private military super soldier thing is kind of a fluke. I shove the gear into the trunk of my Honda Civic a to climbing on the passenger side. I'm old school and recline the seat back as far as it can go I speak the destination and the a to quietly shifts into drive and pulls out. We've got some time. Let me tell you how I got here. I came out of college doing administrative work for defense subcontractors data analysis asset forfeiture anything to pay Howard University back and support my impressive we'd have it.

2 (41m 49s):
By my early 20s, I had built up a pretty high level of security clearance for a civilian. I was bored behind the desk though the first time a field agent let me hold. His gun have was like yes, I jump from agency to agency DEA FBI ice and then I pulled a gangster move. Remember Class 8 a the government's now-defunct development program for disadvantaged businesses. I launched my own minority LED private security company, you know how we do the world had basically been imploding since 2020 and the US defense tap was wide open me and my guys started to piece together a living wage doing Black Ops work Latin America the Middle East most of it pretty unsavory surgical hits regime change.

2 (42m 44s):
I learned the secret to doing dirt. Do it and walk away. Don't feel anything. I got good at it. But the bigger firms like dyncorp and Sierra kept muscling us aside snapping up the best jobs and all the global hot zones that all changed when the suits came out. This was a few years ago the dod very discreetly announced that they were looking for subcontractors to feel test. Some new nano-engineered adaptive camouflage uniforms. No cool acronym. They were for stealth using ground conflicts.

2 (43m 24s):
The suit was made entirely of a melanin base polymer. It was synthetic Melman whipped up in Labs, but that didn't stop me from raising a fuss in the right circles. I played the race card as hard as I could play it. I mean the US military was beta testing high-tech leotards fashion from The Souls of Black Folk someone in the defense department had to have enough PR Savvy to understand why they couldn't do that without handing one to the premier intersectional mercenary in the business me. So I leveled up.

2 (44m 5s):
The a to pings me as we pull into the parking lot and Pentagon City. I reminds me I'm gonna have to ditch all girl. I'm playing it too sloppy as it is running errands in my own car. And so close to headquarters besides something tells me autonomous automobiles. Don't make great getaway cars. Security ways me through the lobby staring at my chest in lieu of asking for ID. I'm not going to miss that nor will I miss the Bland 90's pop cocktail playing in the elevator? Gina sitting rigidly behind her desk as I walk into our office. I'm not worried. I know why I'm here why she called me in she's going to tell me that two weeks ago.

2 (44m 46s):
There was an incident involving the accidental shooting of a civilian non-combatants in bamako Mali, then she's going to inform me that there's to be an official inquiry into the incident and by which agency finally she's going to lean in narrow her eyes and asked me firmly if I had anything to do with said incident because she knows that I was in bamako two weeks ago shadowing possible members of a radical Insurgency. That's her job as my official DOD liaison to know where I am at all times at least as often as I decide to tell her. When Gina and I are off the clock tangled up in her cozy two-story house in South East.

2 (45m 30s):
I like to call her my Handler then roll out of bed before she can catch me and debrief me as you were. She yells before jumping up and chasing me down that I'm going to miss. Jeana tells me to shut the door behind me. Then she says everything I think she's going to say except not the way I think she's going to say it her voice is trembling. She's worried about me. Jesus Gina. There you go. Overreacting again. I think to myself. I mean the situation wasn't good. It was a shit show but as military clusterfuck sin hostile dust bowls go it wasn't unusual really it was just crossed signals US Special Forces had surrounded the guy's house not knowing I was inside.

2 (46m 16s):
I mean, how could they I want to tell Gina not to worry about me anymore, but then she'll want to know what that means. So instead I say what I've been planning the say since I put on my aunt Ayla blouse this morning. I wasn't there. It sucks that that happened, but I wasn't there. Gina's quiet my hand involuntarily reaches for my shirt collar hoping to find the neck of the suit popping out then I remember I'm not wearing it. It's in the trunk of my car. They are lifted him from bamako to Walter Reed for observation. She says what I snap the civilian from Molly.

2 (46m 59s):
He's at Walter Reed hospital. I thought he was dead. I thought you said you weren't there. I say nothing. He's in a coma. She says my mind races back to that day. There was a lot of blood I thought he was dead. Kelly barks Gina as if saying my name will lasso me into this moment we've received reports that four days the man had been telling friends and neighbors that he thought he was being haunted. What are you talking about? I asked like a man or woman that he could only see out of the corner of his eye when he wasn't really looking watching him following him.

2 (47m 41s):
That's what he said like a ghost. I wasn't there I repeat. I see Gina's hand about to move toward me but I'm already backing away as I head for the elevator. I take small solace in the knowledge that when they come after me. They won't send her. I didn't shoot the guy in Molly. I was in the house with him sure, but by then I was wrapping up the investigation. He was no Insurgent. Not even a threat just a kg dude wax into Political on Snapchat. Besides I was anxious as hell to get out of there. Honestly. I've been feeling off since I first touched down in Africa when I was wearing the suit, I was jumpy.

2 (48m 27s):
I was hearing things. I felt over stimulated and Hyper aware and I was starting to feel things like other people's feelings when they passed too close to me in the street the guy whose house I've been snooping around I could sense his fear. I don't like how it felt being inside of the people like this, even if it was helpful. Like when the Special Forces Squad creeped on the house nervous as hell. I felt them coming. It's like they were vibrating outside of their bodies through the walls and I was an antenna. That's why I went outside to talk them down.

2 (49m 15s):
The suits camouflage isn't perfect wearing it. I'm nearly impossible to spot in dark or busy areas. But if you stare right at it, it's like someone smudge reality with a Photoshop brush. I'm moving Distortion in space-time. I walk calmly out the back door. But before I could pull the hood down and put my hands in the air one of the Special Forces guys. Saw the smudge and let one go at the moment. I heard the pop from his rifle. I felt a surge of I guess resistance that started in my chest and force his way out through my pores and when that wave reached a suit, it's like the suit radiated that Force outward 50 times stronger the bullet ricocheted off my shoulder through the door and into the house.

2 (50m 4s):
I heard the civilian non-combatants cream and fall to the floor. I don't know what he said, but I know what he felt it was clear to me as if he'd whispered it right into my ear. ghost since Africa, I've been doing some research on the origins of the suit as far back as the 90s the military had been pouring money into researching. Melanin. It was known that certain Birds use the chemical to change color. So it was a no-brainer that defense would be looking at it as a way to camouflage troops some scientists.

2 (50m 44s):
Also hypothesized that it was melanin that gave blood worms their incredible jaw strength, but I don't know shit about bloodworms. What I do know is that the suit was not designed to stop or repel bullets. It's not armor. Something is happening. The suit is changing evolving and I think it might have something to do with who's wearing it. I know this is going to sound crazy. But when I was a sophomore at Howard the senior with an ankh around his neck used to follow me through the quad calling me queen and preaching to me about the principles of kemetic spirituality. I bet he would have had a field day with this suit he'd say the concentrated melanin must be amplifying ancient African mysticism or whatever.

2 (51m 30s):
He say the suit was helping me channel my ancestors. Hell, he probably paint a Sankofa in the chest and teach himself how to fly he was full of that kind of bullshit. Me I'm thinking this suit never should have been made at all. That is the result of cocky science assholes and soldiers hacking into natural power. They don't understand and can't control from the few very guarded conversations that I was able to have about this without setting off alarm Bells over at the Pentagon. There is only one other person successfully deployed with the suit, whoever reported side effects like mine that brother a tough ex-marine from South Philly is currently doodling on the wall at a psychiatric hospital somewhere in New Mexico.

2 (52m 17s):
The hospital staff won't go near him. They say he can tell you what you had for breakfast or who you're fucking just by looking at you. That's not going to be me stuck in some psych ward somewhere David Blaine to a bunch of orderlies. That's why I'm running. After Molly, I knew I needed some time alone with the suit to figure out exactly what was going on what it was doing to me. I figured I'd do some beta testing of my own. I'd go off the grid Head West maybe even make my way to New Mexico or San Diego where a lot of the original melon and research was done. No one's supposed to know about the suits not foreign governments folks in the White House don't even know so I knew that if I took off with it, someone would come looking to take it back.

2 (53m 8s):
Until this morning, I was pretty confident I could stay gone. But now I have another item on my to-do list and I have to take care of it before I can leave. I meant what I said to Gina about this sort of eyewitness who was currently convalescing in Bethesda. It's suck that he caught wind of me. It sucked that he caught a bullet that was meant for me. He'll it suck that he'd gotten caught up in all this at all. But coma or no coma he was proof literally living proof. Then I'd been at the center of that mess in Mali and everything. I'd learned over the years about how to do dirt and get away clean told me that this was simply not something I could let go.

2 (53m 55s):
He was a loose end that needed to be tied off. Slipping into a secure Military Hospital sounds difficult, but not when you have a top-secret cloaking device or when everyone inside already thinks you're a nurse. I'm on the right floor and the correct Ward before I even have to put the suit on I stare at it for a minute. It's an impenetrable impossible matte black. But at the same time if you gaze into the fabric, it's every color in the Spectrum. Feels good to put it back on. I realize as it bonds to my skin that I've been missing it.

2 (54m 35s):
I feel stronger like twice myself. I shake out of this Bilbo Baggins moment and exit the bathroom stall. I sneaked easily around the two slopes who got stuck guarding a coma patient and enter the Molly guys room. He's alone in his bed breathing slowly through a tube machines chirp all around them. I approached the bed and check the name on the chart John Doe. Of course. Luckily. I'm wearing psychic pajamas. I leaned in and put my hand over his and whoa. This is new his memories come rushing at me.

2 (55m 16s):
It's like his mind pours up through the sleeves of the suit and into mine. It takes me a second to slow it down. His name is Omar. Wow. I really underestimated. This guy. I flipped through his recent past like a carousel slide show the entire time. I've been watching Omar and Molly he'd been watching me or trying he'd actually called a few glimpses of me at my sloppiest circling around behind them to see who he was texting sliding into his room as he drifted off to sleep. He been looking right at me as the bullet bounced off me and struck his skull.

2 (55m 56s):
He's going to recover from that by the way, his vitals are good. I find myself thinking maybe I don't have to do what I came here to do after all. It's not like he actually saw my face. So what if he wakes up and tells a few more people he saw a ghost. What's the harm in that the thought surprises me? I'm used to cleaning up after myself. But I'm also relieved I back away from the hospital bed thinking if I leave now, I'll still have a pretty good head start on whatever Spooks of chasing me down. That's when it occurs to me. I can't just leave him here. The people who are coming after me have way more to lose than I do if they're ready to kill me for stealing the suit, they'll take Umar out just for no one about it.

2 (56m 44s):
I'm still holding his hand. I squeezed his fingers scan his dark features. And then I realize I can't let that happen. I have to protect him. The thought really freaks me out. Seems to come from somewhere deeper inside me than me. pulled up to the surface by bye. Oh shit. It's the soup. I know it first. It has me reading minds. And now I'm supposed to care about this guy not convenient not cool. I could die right here today fighting for some African dude. I don't even know all because of a Double Extra Strength dose of melanin.

2 (57m 31s):
Get a text from Gina that reads simply As You Are. I know she means that coming and I should run. I don't. I moved to stand between Omar's bed and the door. I've got no weapon and my hand to hand combat training is Rusty is all he'll pray the ancestors can help me with that. I take off my

1 (57m 54s):
earrings Susan K Watson reading a short story by Neil drumming Susan is in the TV show. This is us which has a new season and she's in the mr. Rogers film with Tom Hanks. It's coming out soon. And from my hand why don't be Understand my intention when I broke my speech today by Neil drumming people put a show together include a manual Barry Susan Burton, Sean Cole Jessica lessin hot Mickey me clean admits.

1 (58m 39s):
He's still Nelson Captain Ramon Donati Raymond, Robin semyon GUI Sullivan, Chris Russert Alum. Attorney Nancy Updike from managing editors Diane. We were executive editors David kestenbaum special. Thanks today to carry Morgan Alvin Malachy, Doran and AVM. So again, when di Zucca man-cake mansouri and goal is strapped in original music for our science fiction story in the third Act was composed by Blue Dot sessions Ricardo Gutierrez and Andre Taylor our website This American Life dot-org where you can stream our Archive of over 680 episodes for absolutely free. There's also videos and tons of other stuff there. We'll get our app, which is all Stephen us to let you download as many episodes as you want again this American life.org This American Life stood over the public radio stations by PRX the public radio exchange for This American Life comes from God who need is Beer Circus, wild Carnival entertainment live beer and fresh music benefiting local nonprofits circus stops in Seattle, Chicago and Petaluma, California tickets at Lagunitas.com.

1 (59m 41s):
/ Beer Circus see things you can't unsee things always to a programs co-founder. Mr. Amount of to you know, he's complaining this week about how boring wedding seemed to him these days he got off. I don't know he got honest algid about how they were so much more fun back in the 70s and they would have, you know tables for porn stars to sit and sign autographs. I'm Ira Glass back next week with more stories of This American Life.

1 (1h 0m 30s):
Next week on the podcast of this American I've when people go into therapy. Everybody knows I can take years right you talk and you talk you talk but Jamie found out about this method of therapy that instead of years takes just 10 or 12 sessions and

2 (1h 0m 47s):
she decided to find out for

1 (1h 0m 48s):
herself. Could she make progress with a 30-year old trauma in just two weeks? That's next week on the podcast or Newark Public Radio Station.