3 (1s):
Support for This American Life comes from linkedin's new podcast Hello Monday with Jesse Hempel now back for season to join Jesse as she talks with everyone from actor on a ferris to career coach Jerry Colonna about how we find meaning in work find Hello Monday with Jesse Hempel on Apple podcasts or wherever you

2 (19s):
listen. A quick warning. There are curse words that are unbeaten today's episode of the show. If you prefer a beeped version, you can find that at our website This American Life dot-org. Remember that old-fashioned idea the two people who disagree about politics could sit down talk each would see the others point of view. LBJ used to quit scripture as he headed into Political negotiations come let us reason together. Now, of course, we all realize that's

1 (47s):
impossible. I'm overstating for a fact but you know what? I mean,

2 (52s):
right? There's this famous moment a few years ago. When all this seem way more possible a moment which feels

1 (58s):
so long ago. Now it came about because of this thing that happened at a presidential press conference before I take your questions. I want to talk for a few minutes about the progress. We're making on health insurance reform that it goes that Barack Obama used 2009 six. My my co-workers here at the radio show Robin

2 (1m 14s):
semyon has been revisiting this piece of very recent history because it is so recent but feels like it's almost quaint the fact that people thought that sitting down and talking together might work. Hey

3 (1m 24s):
Robin he Ira. Okay, so I talked to Dan Pfeiffer. He's the deputy Communications guy in the Obama White House at the time. He was there in the room for that press conference. So beforehand they'd gone over with the president that 10 specific reporters. They wanted him to call on

2 (1m 40s):
Dad. He got to the end of that list and instead of going off stage and you can tell The president was feeling very good about his performance who gets usually thinks he's doing well that he will take more questions and nothing ever good ever comes as the make it the one more question.

1 (1m 58s):
All right. I tried to make that short so that Lynn sweet would get her last question. Thank you. Mr. President. And I remember this question like it was yesterday recently Professor Henry Louis Gates Jr. Was arrested at his home in Cambridge. What does that incident? Say to you? And what does it say about race relations in America? Well, I should say at the outset that skip Gates is a friend. So I may be a little biased here. I don't know all the facts.

3 (2m 27s):
Okay, so just to remind everybody Henry Louis Gates Jr. Famous Harvard Professor African American Scholar, he comes home one night. He's trying to get into his own house and he's a problem getting in like the keys don't work or something and someone sees him and calls the police the cops show up and the responding officer. Sergeant James Crowley, he learns that it is in fact Gates own house, but then they get into an argument and it escalates and they both have words and then Gates gets

2 (2m 56s):
arrested, right? So, okay. So this comes up at the press conference.

3 (2m 60s):
Yeah, and President Obama is so comfortable in his skin. He is so casual in this moment that he even makes this little joke that is impossible to imagine him making now,

1 (3m 9s):
right? I mean if I was trying to Jigger and well, I guess this is my house now, so it probably won't happen but let's say my old house in Chicago Here I get shot.

3 (3m 22s):
Okay, but then he says this this is the part that's going to cause all the trouble.

1 (3m 26s):
I think it's fair to say number one any of us would be pretty angry. Number two that the Cambridge Police acted stupidly in arresting somebody when there was already proof that they were in their own home and number three what I think we know separate and apart from this incident is that there is a long history in this country of African Americans and Latinos being stopped by law enforcement disproportionately. That's just a

3 (4m 1s):
fact So the night ends and and you're thinking I was pretty

2 (4m 6s):
good. Yeah, I put fine. Yeah, the we survive which is the goal of any press conference. Usually we do a press conference. I would walk back with him and sort of like do post game analysis. But in this case, I think he might have gone upstairs to bed because I'm pretty sure we were in the East wing and the state dining room. So I don't remember talking to him about it that night. He might have talked to Valerie right afterwards

3 (4m 31s):
Valerie Jarrett one of Obama's senior advisors. She was at the press conference to I remember listening to the answer and thinking yeah, that sounds right and then when he said the word stupidly I paused for a minute and then I thought about it I said, all right. Well when somebody gets arrested in their own home that is pretty odd, right and I didn't give much more thought to it. But by the time I got from the East room in the residence back to my office in the west wing, it had blown up. Oh that night. I mean literally within six or seven minutes it was it just one. Viral right away. I was a big deal almost instantly the reaction to him saying the word stupidly just was an instant problem

2 (5m 11s):
after accusing police of acting stupid lie for arresting a Harvard professor in his own home. President Obama came under

1 (5m 18s):
Fire Cambridge Police are not stupid. I think everybody that knows us knows that I think the President should make an apology to all law enforcement Personnel throughout the entire country took offense to this this President, I think has exposed

2 (5m 30s):
himself as a guy over and over and over again who has a deep seeded

1 (5m 35s):
hatred for white people or the white culture. I don't know what it is. I'm not saying that he doesn't like white people I'm saying he has a problem. He has a this guy is

2 (5m 46s):
I believe a

3 (5m 47s):
racist that was Glenn Beck on Fox News kind of famously. Yeah, so that was one reaction, but simultaneously civil rights groups are calling the White House and thinking abama for putting a spotlight on this issue that was important to them. So essentially A President Obama had effortlessly divided the country with his one word stupidly. It was not intended to trigger polarize the police from the communities that they serve and protect it was really kind of an offhanded comment and if perhaps he hadn't said stupidly things would have gotten would not have gotten his derailed as they did if he had if he had said for example It's understandable that skip would be annoyed that a

2 (6m 30s):
police officer would address what arrest him in his home?

3 (6m 32s):
Okay, I think people would have said yeah, I'd be annoyed but when he said something about the police officers intent or behavior, I think that's what God under people's skin. So inside the White House, they go into full crisis mode. They're hoping it'll die down, but it doesn't so they come up with this idea to invite Gates and crawly to the White House to sit down and have a

2 (6m 53s):
beer and then that led to press to become very interested in what I believe they doing they deem the beer Summit and there were demands for that cover. The beer Summit is it would be some violation of government transparency if they did not get a chance to take a picture of the beer Summit, right? And yeah, we didn't want to visit icicles in the garden. So they get to get the repairs to combination down

1 (7m 22s):
people take pictures. And as we all know that did not

3 (7m 25s):
work ya know. It still comes up like a month ago. As you know, our colleague Zoe Chase. Was that a trump rally in New Hampshire to talk to people there about why the country is so divided and two separate people brought this up on their own pointed to this as the moment that they knew that Obama was out to divide the country. What he did is for his first what within his first year he went after the cops and Cambridge. That's the thing that I started when I really started he

1 (7m 55s):
started it just just the things that he did starting with the the beer Summit we had in Cambridge, you know, all these dumb things that he did, you know, it was as it was his agenda.

2 (8m 7s):
Okay. So beer Summit did not unify America

3 (8m 11s):
right? I have thought about this so much since it happened just the Casual way that President Obama stepped into this. I've wondered if he was like I set the table already with the race conversation as a candidate. So

2 (8m 24s):
people know where I'm coming from.

3 (8m 26s):
I've wondered if maybe he was just trying to test the waters right then. Maybe just thought well, let's just see how I just see where we are. I don't know that there was that much thought I think to your point and and honestly Robin haven't thought about this before you put it to me, but I'm sure because the race speech had gone. So well and was embraced broadly and was so raw and honest about himself. He hoped that people had a better sense of who he was and because he won the presidency and had comported himself throughout his short tenure at that point as the president for all of America.

3 (9m 10s):
I think perhaps he thought he had the standing to say that and and not experience the backlash. And so that was a teaching moment to that, you know for happier for him for all of us. Yeah. Dan told me he thinks that it wasn't what Obama said but that he was the first black president in the White House and that if it wasn't this it would have been something else.

2 (9m 35s):
Okay, but if the goal of the beer Summit was just three people sitting around trying to understand each other a little bit better. Like even for those people did it work.

3 (9m 44s):
I mean, yeah, it kind of did like they were really mad before and then after the beer Summit Sergeant Crowley does this press conference where he says, you know, we agree that we both have a lot to learn from each other and we want to stay in touch and they stay in touch. Yeah, it seems like it since then Gates has said that he and Sergeant Crowley have developed a really good relationship. And then he did this thing. You know, he has his PBS TV show where he tests celebrities DNA and tells them about their history. So he asked Crowley to do a DNA test and found out that they have a common and Irish ancestor the cousin

2 (10m 27s):
it's robbing. Another words like it is possible for people to get

1 (10m 30s):
along and and

2 (10m 31s):
become friends and see each other's points of view,

1 (10m 34s):
especially around the magic potion that we call beer. But we live in a country where

2 (10m 39s):
most of the nation for one reason or another chooses not to believe that seems that way. Yeah, but that is actually our show today people sitting down trying to see the other person's point of view over beer in all these stories. No kidding beer is involved at a critical turning point in one story. The fate of an entire nation is at stake.

1 (10m 60s):
Actually now that I think that it's true for the other story

2 (11m 1s):
to from WBZ Chicago. It's This American Life stay with

1 (11m 6s):
us.

2 (11m 15s):
Daquan one for my baby and one more for the road. So with everybody the United States in Europe breaking off into Political groups who seem to understand each other less and less these days this German journalist named Bastian bear Abner. They spent the last three years reporting on people from these kinds of groups that dislike and mistrust each other and see things very differently who actually sit down and try to get along he's traveled to a bunch of different countries looking for examples of this where people do indeed somehow come to see eye to eye. So for example in Denmark, he interviewed policemen who decided that the very best way to combat the most radical people, they faced jihadists and neo-nazis was to invite them in for coffee with have to say amazing result and the most extreme example of the city found was in Botswana where for decades now the government has been running this kind of big.

2 (12m 6s):
I don't know social experiment to fight tribalism. Basically, what happens is that every year the government tells thousands of civil servants to just pack up their belongings and move sometimes very far from home to live and work with people who are sometimes very different from them. This plant is not popular. Sometimes a parent is forced to work hundreds of miles from their own family, but the government has stubbornly stuck with this policy for

1 (12m 29s):
decades. Here's Bastian

2 (12m 32s):
when Wilt wanna became independent from Britain in 1966. It was one of the last African countries to do. So imagine the colonialist leaf and you are the first president of Botswana for years all around you. You have seen the same story over and over again countries become independent ethnic violence follows Molly became independent in nineteen, sixty two years later the Tuareg started the Civil War Congo same story soon after its independence the province of katanga try to break away Nigeria independence in 1960 very soon. The iqbal's and Hauser started clashing. Having seen all of that the early leaders in Botswana knew they had a problem because the exact thing that had fueled the violence in all those countries they had it as well.

3 (13m 20s):
If you think about that these borders are were just

1 (13m 23s):
doing up

3 (13m 24s):
and some of them really straight board us, you know, they could have cut through the person literally, you know,

2 (13m 30s):
this is Unity doll the foreign minister of Botswana. She was a kid back in the 60s when a few people in London through the borders of her country on a map creating Botswana. I'd like an all those other places in Africa. They were putting a bunch of ethnic groups together. They didn't really like each other the Colunga the north the back we know sort of the Kalahari Desert the bong water in the center in Botswana. Everyone refers to these groups as tribes. So that's what I'm going to say in this story in Botswana. They were 20 tribes give or take this book different languages have different traditions and now they were forced into one country. So the early leaders figured to avoid that kind of violence here.

2 (14m 12s):
What we need to do is break up tribal identities and form a true nation no more us no more than just the way but how do you do that? They came up with a plan first. They decided everyone needs to understand each other. So in schools, they would only teach English and setswana the other tribal languages not at all second to keep people from fighting over land. They gave a piece of land to anyone who wished and they said everything underneath that land belongs to the state. This is important because this is one of the diamond richest countries on Earth.

2 (14m 53s):
So what happens if I'm given a piece of land I settle there I dig and I find it a rich diamond mine

3 (15m 0s):
ha ha you can moved.

2 (15m 3s):
What do you mean

3 (15m 4s):
that you get moved? You have to declare that de minimis surrender. It is against the law to actually to to keep it for yourself. You can't just find a diamond. And so I found another once you find it. It's adios. There's a lot just wait. Larry says it is it's not your sister belongs to everybody. So you would just get another piece of land someplace else.

2 (15m 25s):
I would be so frustrated.

3 (15m 26s):
Well, I'm sorry for your troubles.

2 (15m 31s):
There was one more thing probably the most important one people told me the transfers remember each tribe had its territory. So if you were from a certain Village in the north, you will most likely Colunga if you were from the Central District, probably Bangla to so they figured why not make all civil servants move to a different tribal area from their own for a few years there would make sure that there are teachers and doctors everywhere in the country. But also it would force people to mix it would be Anti tribalism tool when you move people around

3 (16m 7s):
you are indirectly forcing them to take that cut into that new home. She'll drop the new culture and even to call that home you're forcing alliances, you know and forcing

2 (16m 20s):
friendships. Can you force friendships? Does that kind of thing work the transfers affected everyone working for the government by far the largest employer in the country Engineers administrators doctors nurses and most of all teachers when I was in Botswana. I talked to 20 teachers to find out if this works and what it's like for the people going through it. I'm going to tell you the story of one of the teachers a woman named Carol Ramallah Donna in a way Carol story is typical of what I found but she also stood out to me. I'll tell you why in a

3 (16m 56s):
minute. So the teachers would always ask you what do you want to be when you grow up I was and I want to be a teacher like you

2 (17m 4s):
ma'am. Carol told me she became a teacher for the reasons a lot of people do she like the one she had as a kid.

3 (17m 10s):
This lady was a lady who always everyone who wants she gets to school. She will look at that at us. She wouldn't shout at us. If you didn't comb your hair. She'll say my baby come here. She will come your hair nicely. She would ask us did you have breakfast she was this kind of a lady who always come with fruits to work.

2 (17m 29s):
What did you bring?

3 (17m 30s):
She would most of the time she brought oranges and she will just sit there cut the oranges and just give to us and she said, you know, I love you so much. And we said we love you teacher

2 (17m 44s):
in 2004 Carol was working in the school in the capital city Governor Oni. She was 28 and everything was going great. She loved teaching all her friends were in the city at night. They went out to eat in Chinese restaurants. They went dancing. They were happy. But then one day the head of the school where she taught called her in and handed her a letter. She was being transferred

3 (18m 7s):
with immediate effect. Oh, I still have the letter like now you are transferred with immediate

2 (18m 14s):
effect. The head of the school told her the name of the place. She was going lens will at our Lions Hill. Oh

3 (18m 23s):
God. I didn't even know the plays I asked him. Where is that place? I told me it's a village. It's a small village and I just saw from his eyes and his looks that he was just consoling me.

2 (18m 40s):
So he knew the place a new

3 (18m 42s):
the place and he knew the place wasn't that good

2 (18m 45s):
Carol had known about the transfers of course, but she had always figured maybe she would get lucky. Well, she didn't she had just paid for some accounting classes if she went to this Village. He wasn't going to get her money back. She feared that she would lose everything that was important to her her friends her clubs her restaurants and she liked being among people like herself people. She had things in common

3 (19m 10s):
with and there was nothing that I can do it is right. I tried I tried I spent about a month. Try moving from one office to another. Just to know a vague

2 (19m 23s):
she'd walk into the Ministry of Education with her letter saying please can't you put me somewhere closer or at least delay so I can finish my classes. She wasn't getting anywhere. Most people don't. That woman Unity Dow before she became foreign minister. She was the minister of education and she had to deal with people like Carol all the time. She told me that once a teacher brought in her elderly mother pleading, please don't transfer me. I have to take care of her Unity said that woman could barely walk and he was clear the woman wouldn't live much longer still. She said, sorry lots of people your age have an elderly parent. I can't do anything for you.

2 (20m 4s):
Carol couldn't get out of it either. She was desperate.

3 (20m 7s):
I was telling my mother, you know mama. I want to come back home. You know, this is what is happening. You know, I don't think I can go on, you know being a teacher but my mother on the other hand were saying no my daughter just go to school. You will see how it goes. Just below

2 (20m 29s):
Carol knew nothing about the place where she was headed.

3 (20m 32s):
I really didn't know them, you know, the fact that you are speaking different languages and I wasn't even interested really I wasn't even interested in knowing them that much to me. I just felt like this they are just You know people that I I don't have to bother do with them.

2 (20m 54s):
Carol's tribe was kind of delete the founder of the state. For example, he was from her tribe and was his grandfather who back in the 1800's went to London to negotiate with Queen Victoria the place where she was going very different story. She says they used to be enslaved by another tribe. One day the ministry send a truck to take care of things to the new place. She didn't go with it. She stayed for two more weeks and then reluctantly she got in her car drove out of the city and when she approached the

3 (21m 26s):
village there was a building an old building, you know, I was like, oh God. What is this on the other side of the road? There was something like maybe they wanted to build a filling station, but they didn't, you know go along with the the structure but they just left with his there. There was this tank the tank that showed that this place was supposed to be a affiliate station.

2 (21m 54s):
I've been there it's remote does the makeshift houses many without running water the school just a few houses scattered on the Deep Red Earth. Carol's house was on the school grounds campus housing for both kids and teachers is pretty standard in Botswana. Actually. She got the keys. The door all her stuff was there in boxes? She cried and slept for days. She wouldn't leave the house a few times. Someone knocked probably a fellow teacher or her boss. She ignored it. She had brought food for weeks rise pasta 10 pounds of dried chicken and tons of hard cider.

2 (22m 33s):
Finally she showed up to work.

3 (22m 35s):
It was really odd. It was odd. Like I said the people in that Village even the teachers were like them. So I was wearing healed high-heeled shoes. I was carrying a handbag some were gossiping behind somewhere telling me straight, you know, my sister. This is a village eventually you would leave your hand back at home. You would leave your high-heeled shoes. Can I sub for what? This is me. The one is going to change me. That's what I said and you know because of their attitude and what they said. I also had an attitude towards them.

2 (23m 20s):
It's worth noting how this is basically the opposite of what the program is supposed to do. She's forced to go there. She didn't necessarily think anything bad about the people at first, but now she did she didn't notice what she had in common with them. She noticed how they were different Carol found herself in the corner that she hadn't really been into start

3 (23m 42s):
with but I was angry with my the minister of Education. I was angry with everyone they have abused me they have you don't mean ill-treated me. So I didn't even want to be a teacher anymore. At times I would just go to class. I would look at the skis or just give them a book to read and I'll go back to my room.

2 (24m 5s):
Why was it so the students would sit

3 (24m 6s):
there you sit there by themselves, you know, don't just read their books. I don't know whether they will be reading or making noise.

2 (24m 16s):
Did you think to yourself? What happened to the girl who brought oranges to this to the classroom?

3 (24m 22s):
At that time, you know, that thing didn't didn't even cross my mind.

2 (24m 28s):
Most of the teachers I talked to told me stories like this, but many were reluctant to go on the record Carol not so much. She was like what the hell this is what the government does to us people should know about it. After a few weeks in the village, she had finished all the side as she had brought so that night she drove to the local bar and went in

3 (24m 50s):
I was just looking at this dirty people to me. They were very dirty and I wouldn't even look at them and see someone cleaned a dirty in what way that's like they were not bathroom. They have a

2 (25m 2s):
smell So most of all your remember the

3 (25m 5s):
smell. Yeah, it was horrible. I'm telling you. I know the smell of unpleasant, you know, everything deity and the shoes, you know to me. I was somebody in a different class. There were not the type of people that I would chat with I would sit down without laugh with You know in a bar when you when you get into a bar, you know, there would be this guy's except a hey baby, you know such things and I would just look at them with this harsh face rolling your eyes. Yeah, then the old see this one.

3 (25m 48s):
And now we'll keep quiet and I'll get to the to the lady who selling and I'll buy and get outside and get into my car and sit there and

2 (25m 58s):
talk. How many beers would you have a night? I have six six years.

3 (26m 4s):
Yes,

2 (26m 6s):
the whole point of transferring teachers around the country is to expose them to people who are different from themselves. But whenever possible Carol just try to avoid that like the teachers for example, they had a break room where they could eat lunch together and socialize

3 (26m 20s):
I only went there when there is a meet you only I never thought with the teachers day never from from the classical back to my house. I never said with them.

2 (26m 33s):
Lunch break.

3 (26m 34s):
I never said with them never I would rather sit in my

2 (26m 38s):
car. After three months she got a housemate another teacher from a different part of the country and one Saturday. He suggested going out to this nearby Town. That's just a little bit bigger. They brought their camping chairs because on weekends the bars can get so crowded that you don't find a place to sit. So they take the chairs sit outside the bar and Carol feels happy because the people there seemed more like her kind of

3 (27m 8s):
people. No, he's just had some drinks, you know, it was a new environment for us. Why are you laughing? I'm remembering exactly what happened. You know you were just sitting there chatting and my housemates just went to the toilet and he was this guy. Who approached me? He says Hi. I said hi. My name is terrible. Can I please have your number and then I was like, what do you want to do with? My number said? No, I just wanted to chat with you.

3 (27m 49s):
I feel like you know we can

2 (27m 52s):
chat. Sometimes she gives out a fake number, but that guy he got the real one.

3 (27m 58s):
I just felt. Like talking to him, you know being nice to him and chatting with him. You know, I just felt something from him the moment. He came

1 (28m 12s):
just

3 (28m 14s):
a know maybe that was the Cinch of love. I don't know. Yes. What did he look like? Come on. Yeah, he's handsome. What's so handsome about it. I think beauty lies in the eyes, you know, maybe when you look at him you will see him ideal, but when I look at him and some

2 (28m 40s):
he seems like the guys he hung out with in the city not like the people in the village. They talked a bit with the guys. He was

3 (28m 47s):
with we will talk to you just like you said. Oh you guys are you from here? We said no then they said, where are you from? I kept quiet then my housemates it we are from Linz a little and there was a what

2 (29m 4s):
table or the guy who would ask for her number said that's my home Village. It's where I grew up my family lives there. This guy that Kara liked was from the town that she found so repulsive

3 (29m 17s):
and you know, I know my husband was laughing because he knew very well that I hate the place and everybody in that place. I always told you guys you guys don't like this place. I hate this place.

2 (29m 32s):
What happened? Next is exactly what you think happened next. He visited her the next weekend took her two parties introduced her to friends. They got together the travel to South Africa to the north of Botswana to see elephants when they went out to dinner. He'd ordered the same thing. She ordered he lived a few hours away. So they only saw each other on weekends, but they talked on the phone would

3 (29m 56s):
while of chats love child. What do you mean Love chat, you know, you would ask me how I am. Am I fine if I wasn't well, I will tell him not today of a headache or what just those things. That's not a love chat, isn't it is how you you want to know how your batna is? That's the Love chat.

2 (30m 21s):
The transfer program was created to Fortune Nation. It's funny to think that this could be the real secret to how it might actually work people fall in love for Carol after she Metabo.

3 (30m 33s):
Everything changed II Started Loving that the place. How did I change? How did that change? You know, you have someone in the village? He's your boyfriend. He moves around showing you things in the village you tend to love the the

2 (30m 48s):
place. What did you discover about the place that before you haven't seen?

3 (30m 56s):
It's just a village there isn't anything much. What do you love about it? You know those those those people they are there. They are loving people you're smiling. They are like, yes, we are loving people. I love them. I love them.

2 (31m 12s):
She became friends with the owner of the smelly bar. She cooked for the soccer team. She was invited to be a church in a beauty contest which is kind of a big deal in the village. She went to weddings and funerals. There was even a woman who gave her a piece of land. I have built a healthy. No way. I'm telling you no

3 (31m 33s):
way serious

2 (31m 38s):
The former education Minister Unity doll. She says what Carol experience is actually pretty common and a big part of the program success what happens when you put people

3 (31m 49s):
around maybe 80% will come back to it was they they get married.

2 (31m 53s):
I was all like it's a mess of dating

3 (31m 54s):
program. I don't know. If to me I mean

2 (31m 60s):
like a government-sponsored dating thing, like people go someplace they fall in love. First of all, I'm going to say that you

3 (32m 6s):
joke, but the truth is that just the nature of how humans moved and acclimatized and call those a homes

1 (32m 19s):
a

2 (32m 19s):
few years after she had moved to the Village Carol finally felt at home. She had built that house her relationship with taboo was going great. Carol was taking oranges to class again. She did still bring her hand back on her heels to class every day. In fact, one of the women who teased her about it a science teacher she It's bringing her hand back to Carroll was still a little bit of a snob about the locals, but overall she was as happy here as she had been in the city. But there is something I haven't told you about the transfer program. You don't just get transferred once for teachers. It's every five years. Sometimes a little less sometimes a little more.

2 (32m 60s):
So one day the

3 (33m 1s):
school had called us. It was a lady she told us that one of you has to go

2 (33m 8s):
there were five teachers teaching religious education one too many

3 (33m 12s):
we as the what kinds are you going to use? So she basically said whoever came first or to be the one to go and definitely I knew it was me. So I think for about four five months, I was waiting for the letter knowing that any time I would be going that that must be so frustrating. I mean now you're there, you know people intimately. Yeah, and then you

2 (33m 36s):
know that you have to start from the

3 (33m 39s):
bottom and you have this really frustrating. Yeah it is it is it is frustrating. It is frustrating a lot.

2 (33m 51s):
On the other hand if it weren't for the transfer program, she wouldn't have. Matobo. Are you happy

3 (33m 56s):
with them? Yeah. Yeah very much Happy and we are planning to get married. Oh, there is some time. I promised me.

2 (34m 8s):
This was December last year. They had been together for 15 years at that point survive three transfers Tabo had never moved with her as a soldier. He was also told by the government were to work but then a couple of months after the interview. I was texting with Carol and she told me she had broke up with turbo just before the wedding. She had found out that he was having an affair. Do you blame the transfer program for the end of your relationship with table at all? Sometimes not really

3 (34m 40s):
a pain since mentality is not to be blamed in on anyone or the government. I don't.

2 (34m 51s):
But if if it wasn't for the transfer program you would have been able to stay with him maybe

3 (34m 56s):
and maybe okay then yeah, maybe speculate. Yeah

2 (35m 4s):
all the teachers. I talked to found the transfer thing. Mostly annoying some of them found it so disruptive that at some point they considered quitting like there was this one guy after being transferred he fell in love much like Carol he had a kid, but then he was transferred again and again and again, he worked in seven schools. He had four kids with for women and he was single again when I talk to him. He blamed the transfers and himself. Recently the government has made some changes. They now allow married people to move together. They've tried to reunite couples who've been split up. They also allow swaps.

2 (35m 44s):
So if you find another teacher across the country who is willing to switch jobs, they'll usually agree. So yes, they try to make things a little easier but still this policy supposed to be intrusive. That's the idea all the officials. I talked to acknowledge the hardships that causes and all of them stood by it. Yes. It was sometimes bad for individual people, but it was good for the people as a whole. In fact, they say it's a big reason why they are a whole The effect of the transfers has never been systematically analyzed there is no study. And what's one had other things going for it that help them unify. There was less of a colonial Legacy to overcome the British had kind of ignored the country and ruled it from neighboring South Africa.

2 (36m 30s):
And Botswana and acted those laws that prevented any one group from getting rich off the country's Diamond wealth. But the officials are talk to we're convinced the transfers were essential. They help make their country drawn on a map 50 years ago into a unified Nation one that has never seen War one. That is the least corrupt country in Africa and one of Africa's best working democracies. And the economy from the mid 60's to the mid 90s, but sworn I had the fastest growing economy in the world. Not the United States not emerging China Botswana. It works miracles. This is the president of Botswana McQuaid seemed uh, CeCe.

2 (37m 12s):
I had a chance to speak to him a few weeks ago

1 (37m 15s):
in the same way as early on when education system was still in its nascent stages. We had boarding school. So you had people in from this part of the country going over here and there and you know, I'm people marry from everywhere and that works for us.

2 (37m 30s):
I asked if some version of this might work elsewhere like in the US and other countries that are so divided it could be a fix that you know,

1 (37m 41s):
I don't really want to comment too deeply about the issues of another nation state you'd understand why but I do have use They must copy us. copy from us

2 (38m 2s):
It's hard to imagine the US shipping teachers from New York City to read States and vice versa. If you attempt this with teachers in Germany where I live you'd probably have rides on your hands, but we could try something to get different kinds of people talking to each other

1 (38m 17s):
face-to-face.

2 (38m 23s):
Everybody I spoke with in Botswana told me the transfer program works and everything. I found in my reporting suggests it works but I also got a glimpse of its limits one day. I gave a woman a ride young French teacher. We sat in the car waiting for the rain to pass and she talked about her family a family of teachers a family shaped by transfers.

1 (38m 45s):
My father

3 (38m 47s):
was a teacher and he was posted in another area. My mother was a teacher and she was posted another area. So he got on distance naughty business that she got upset and left but then I grew up knowing that That the teacher was my father but my father was someone else from another Village somewhere in another tribe. So in essence, my mother raised me as a Madonna and

2 (39m 12s):
now and what's wanna in other words about to Runnin.

3 (39m 15s):
So I hate that question because which question all my guy my guy. Yeah. What does that mean? What's your tribe or heike guy? Where's your home Village?

2 (39m 27s):
And it's a very common question.

3 (39m 28s):
It's a very common question. Everyone will ask you that wherever you go. That's the first thing people will

1 (39m 35s):
ask you one more guy. Oh my God. Looks like I got high you get what? I mean, so I don't like that. I'm

3 (39m 41s):
just a most wanna it doesn't matter where I come from doesn't matter where my Village is. Come on zhanna and it's yeah

2 (39m 49s):
and that's not just an answer to shut the people up. It's you. What do you really

3 (39m 53s):
feel how I feel? I don't I don't understand why we have to always identify with our

2 (39m 59s):
tribes. Do you realize that this is like the in a nutshell the Botswana story

3 (40m 7s):
really? Don't you think I guess now you giving me that aha moment hurry. Yeah. Hey simple cool shoe Sahara row,

2 (40m 19s):
then she started listing the Botswana tribes

3 (40m 22s):
Gallagher's color High Desert Carter. Mom wanna do my kids. We are distributed all over the country. And we are all one. Thank you to the transfers.

2 (40m 44s):
So yes, of course, it has worked. Here's a woman who identifies first and foremost as Botswana who hasn't spoken her native language in years. But also it hasn't worked not all the way. I mean, they tried the most radical thing that I found in my years of reporting on this they did it for decades. They moved hundreds of thousands of people around but the question is still being asked. What's your

1 (41m 10s):
tribe?

2 (41m 19s):
Bastion bergner is reported for de tight. If you speak German, he has a book about all this called in German 180° stories against hate. He's looking for a publisher in English Carol, by the way after splitting up with Tabo. She met somebody new the planning to get married later this year coming up. I borrow everybody knows your name and that is exactly the problem that's in a minute Chicago public radio when our program continues

3 (41m 47s):
Support for This American Life comes from linkedin's new podcast Hello Monday more than three-quarters of Americans report severe anxiety on Sunday nights. But what if Monday became something we could look forward to linkedin's new podcast Hello Monday with Jesse Hempel is back for season 2 to help you do just that each week join, Jessie and her guests as they explore the ever-changing world of work how to like it how to change it and maybe even how to love it find Hello Monday with Jesse Hempel on Apple podcasts or wherever you listen to podcasts.

2 (42m 22s):
This American Life Mara glass today's program beer Summit stories about people who disagree trying to get along 80 by the magical healing power of beer. We arrived it at two of our program act to loggerheads. So we got a tip about this next story from a source. I have to say we do not get many story ideas from Bangkok own explains. Yeah, so a couple of years ago. I called this guy in Indiana. Hello Ben. Hi, Pete here in South Bend. How are you mayor booty? Just how are you good? I apologize for running behind schedule today. It's no II hear you have a whole city to run. So this was way before mayor Pete started running for president these days.

2 (43m 5s):
I don't imagine he does a ton of our long chat about the direction of the democratic party with reporters, which that's what we were doing and in the middle of that he mentioned this thing that happened in South Bend. I went to an event not long ago with the clay Democratic Club, which is another sort of that's on the North Out of town and its it resembles a dive bar its place you can go for the concert and card game and did a big controversy because about half of their board voted for Donald Trump Democratic Club mayor Budaj was so matter-of-fact it took me a second to register. Just how Wild what he was saying was that at one of the oldest largest most important Democratic clubs in his hometown half the leadership had voted for Donald Trump in 2016.

2 (43m 52s):
All right. Keep in touch.

3 (43m 53s):
In other words. It was like in the

2 (43m 56s):
tiny world of this one bar you had with the entire Democratic party's going through in some key places like the Midwest a bunch of Democrats deserted and the Democrats lost and the rest are left trying to figure it out. Are they mad at those people? Sure. Can they win those people back what the heck is gonna happen with those people? So a little while ago, I went to the clay Democratic Club to see how this was all working out

1 (44m 24s):
there.

2 (44m 27s):
The clay Democratic Club, it's sort of like an American Legion Hall cross with a bingo hall cross with a neighborhood bar pool costs a dollar 25 beers are 250 because it's a private club. You can smoke which is a well exercise, right? There's a stage in the back for drawings bands karaoke night as a kid from Wisconsin, I would say it's pretty much everything a bar should be behind the stage. There's the club's logo a red and blue donkey with the name clay Democratic Club over it there's tables that the club moves around depending on what's Happening and at the bar they're regulars who always seem to be in the same spots regardless of what's happening.

2 (45m 9s):
Every time I stopped in it was Marty on the right end of the bar Denny in the middle and then down at the far left end of the bar Liz Liz McCombs.

3 (45m 19s):
The Knights of Elections is they'll be packed down here bands and food.

2 (45m 25s):
It's a huge. Event out here this whole thing started Liz told me on the eve of Indiana's last presidential primary May 2nd 2016. This was a Monday night. Donald Trump was in town. He was holding a big rally in South Bend just a few miles south of the bar to headed on all the bars

3 (45m 42s):
TVs. We are just hours away from a critical vote in Indiana.

2 (45m 46s):
So everyone's watching the coverage of trump on the bars TVs drinking

3 (45m 50s):
there was a lot of offhand

2 (45m 51s):
comments and things like that because we were Democrats. So we definitely

3 (45m 56s):
want to do for lack of better words just the Republicans and Trump and then it was

2 (46m 4s):
over the rally ended

1 (46m 6s):
when the rally was let now and they had it on the news. So the 11 o'clock news

3 (46m 13s):
and somebody said, oh my God, that's Ross. And it was right there on the TV

2 (46m 23s):
in the crowd streaming out of the Trump rally was this guy that everybody in the bar recognized a guy named Russ Thomas everyone recognized rest because he was a longtime member of the clay Democratic Club, but on top of that rust Thomas was the sitting president of the clay Democratic Club and then everybody

3 (46m 44s):
can I be

1 (46m 45s):
blunt? They were all hell no body was saying

2 (46m 51s):
and then and

1 (46m 53s):
shock and awe.

2 (47m 1s):
I called rest to hear his version of all this Russ. I'll say is Gruff but nice. He's real connoisseurs of short answers.

3 (47m 9s):
What is it that convinced

2 (47m 11s):
you to support President Trump? I just like him but like where their policies or certain issues. I just like him. He did have more than that to say about the rally though. Mainly that he was completely and totally

1 (47m 26s):
Unapologetic if you had

2 (47m 28s):
known that people at the club or watching TV that night and they were seeing you on on TV.

1 (47m 36s):
If I don't know when you're watching other hand it back at a banner said Russell's here on a wave down how you doing guys

2 (47m 47s):
dress is the rally was exciting. He went there with a buddy that night another Democrat turned Trump supporter. It wasn't easy Russ has problems with his legs and by his account he could hardly walk his friend couldn't use one foot because of diabetes, but they will themselves through the walk to South Bend's convention center, and then they stood and waited until Donald Trump made his entrance to The Rolling Stones Start Me

1 (48m 11s):
Up.

2 (48m 17s):
So if I'm facing the the president, where were you in the

1 (48m 21s):
room? He's right over there

2 (48m 24s):
rest point indicating. He was in the back back towards the back right corner of the

1 (48m 28s):
room. Yeah. I'm back on this back wall back here standing but we had such incredible crowds. Look at this room as an example right into the corners people. Hello Corner how far away were you from? Well the most of the other wall it's been so so pretty far in the back. It was awesome there by right clapping and yelling. Go first. Awesome.

2 (48m 51s):
Indiana's primary comes pretty late in the process, but that night Trump was on the verge of effectively locking up the Republican nomination and he told Russ in his buddy in the crowd there that their votes the next day could put him over the

1 (49m 4s):
top Indiana's becoming very important usually by this time it's over and you know, it doesn't matter but this time you folks belong with you you belong it's called important bill right for you. I love it.

2 (49m 18s):
Of course that night in important bill not everyone was feeling so great about stuff specifically the patrons of one Democratic bar had been watching TV Hagar

3 (49m 28s):
embarrassment rage. There was people that were

2 (49m 33s):
raging again Liz McCombs long time clay Democratic Club

3 (49m 37s):
member it was a it was every emotion.

1 (49m 41s):
Because you felt like the rug had been ripped out underneath

3 (49m 44s):
your feet. It was like The Wizard of Oz you're really a republican running a

1 (49m 50s):
Democratic Club. Never mind. What's behind that curtain? It was exactly like the Wizard of Oz

2 (49m 55s):
it probably seems like rest could not have been more busted but he was the head of the st. Joseph County Democratic party. That's the county where South Bend is the head of the entire Democratic party at that time was a guy named Jason critchlow. Jason was outside the Trump rally that night checking out the Trump supporters. And then what happened? He looks across the street. He told me who do I see it's rust fucking Thomas.

1 (50m 28s):
He was I think he was wearing a hat like he was it was one of those things where it wasn't an accident. He was just walking along the sidewalk. It was obvious. This dude was going into the rally and was a trump supporter. You know,

2 (50m 40s):
Jason was like, I'm the county party chair. This is kind of a weird thing for me to get mixed up. Bin, but also like kind of too big of a deal to just let go, you know, do I

1 (50m 50s):
how much of a fight do I want to pick over something and this is their Club? It's their rules

2 (50m 55s):
not knowing what to do Jason started calling and texting a small group of people who he knows go to the club. Eventually. He gets the Dan Hartman former president of the clay Democratic Club.

1 (51m 6s):
He asked me what's going on. I told him I said Jason, I don't know. I'm not an officer to Club anymore.

2 (51m 13s):
Dan Hardman is like everything about the clay Democratic Club turned into a person his life seems to rhyme with everything about the place Dan was born in South Bend in 1946. Same years the club in the beginning the founders didn't have enough money for a building. They just poured a basement and put a roof on it. Some of Dan's early memories are being a little kid running around on the low-slung proof of that basement building while the adults were downstairs in the club. Then was a member for years eventually became vice president. Dan was President for seven years before rest came in

1 (51m 47s):
for anything bad to happen down here kind of affects me emotionally because I've got such strong feelings for the membership and the club. my desire to have this club succeeded just he met humongous. I mean, I'd anything goes wrong with his Club. It's I feel it's part of me. And so do most of my officers they feel that way and that's the way the officers of the club should feel. The club is part of them and I don't meet your life revolves around it, but Close to it

2 (52m 23s):
everyone at the club seems to love Dan which is easy. He's not a big guy, but he seems big because he's so outgoing his grandfather of 16 retired Teamster drove a truck for years Army veteran. He's got this completely bald head and a long grey goatee. When Dan got the call from Jason about Russ. It was the first he'd heard of any of this Dan was reeling

1 (52m 48s):
what do you feel? I mean the president of your Club your Democratic Club is seen at a rally for a republican candidate for president. What are you doing, dude? I mean you're putting a black mark on our party on our club.

2 (53m 9s):
Dan who known us for years ended up being the one to have to call him to see what this was about.

1 (53m 15s):
I confronted him about it. Why did you do that Russ because I believe in the man. I'm I support Trump. So I'm not Republican but I support Trump. I said you're the president of the Democratic Club and you're doing that to your Democratic party. It doesn't look very good Russ. I mean you could have sat at home and watched on TV or any other venue and he said that's my right to do that. And I said, okay, I appreciate that. You have your rights to do whatever you want to do. Raise Hell or anything like that because it doesn't get you anywhere

2 (53m 50s):
at the club meeting that soon followed Dan asked everyone to quote not crucify their friend for his

1 (53m 55s):
beliefs. All right away. They want to kick him out of the club right away. They wanted to Tar and feather the poor guy and run him off. Well, it wasn't me. What it was other people stating he's gone. He's done. We're done.

2 (54m 13s):
Again. Liz McCombs. Liz says she was friends with Russ still is friends with Russ, but she says most people at least the ones that spoke up at this meeting drew a hard line about what he

1 (54m 25s):
did this Democratic Club. We are old yellow dogs and what that means is I rather vote for all yellow dog than a Republican. So

3 (54m 36s):
they just label them as a turncoat and that was it. It was impossible.

2 (54m 42s):
It was like he there was just no way that he could even function as president anymore.

3 (54m 47s):
No you lie to

1 (54m 48s):
everybody. No, there's no

3 (54m 53s):
he just he did not understand

2 (54m 57s):
what his position met and how much it meant. Rest resigned as president a couple people told me he wasn't doing that good of a job. Anyway rest denies that the only thing rest would say is that it was quote personal no matter how many times I asked that's what he said what I do know Russ submitted a very succinct letter of resignation shortly after the incident at the rally no reasons just that he was stepping down as president of the clay Democratic Club. Dan Hardman came back for another term like FDR. But what makes all of this complicated is that rest quit as president, but he kept coming into the club because it's a great bar full of people he knows and because Russ still considers himself a Democrat previously now in the future.

2 (55m 53s):
He says he just likes Trump

1 (55m 55s):
is outspoken. He's doing a good job. I got a lot of faith in him. I feel the same way about him that I did with Reagan. Oh, is that right? So did you vote for Reagan? Yep, so would do you

2 (56m 9s):
feel like there's a couple times in your life when for the most part you've been a Democrat, but there's been a few times in your life that you said. I'm voting for The Republican in this

1 (56m 18s):
case. I put my ticket every year. I still don't some democrat I voted Obama's

2 (56m 25s):
first year. At this point, it seems like it became clear that the rest Thomas situation wasn't just going to be about Russ when rusted this is

3 (56m 35s):
split everybody

2 (56m 36s):
apart. Because you're either a Democrat or you're not Liz Macomb says things changed at the club in the months that followed when Dan Hardman came back as president. He told Russ if he was going to keep coming in. He had to be tactful about his support for Trump, but Dan also made sure Russ knew that he was still welcome. And so Russ continued to do some of the things he'd always done like run karaoke at the club on Friday night, which is how karaoke night turned into a time for people at the club to choose sides. So you had people gunning for

1 (57m 10s):
us. That's true. And then you had rust

3 (57m 13s):
supporters, which I get is freedom of speech you're allowed that and you're allowed to do whatever you want and that that's part of the Constitution and I'm thankful every day. We have that that's fine and everybody's regular life. But what did those

2 (57m 28s):
people do like when they would come down how often would it happen that people would stir up trouble sort of

3 (57m 34s):
it seemed like every weekend because Ross was doing the care. Okay, and it seemed like there was a fight every Friday

1 (57m 42s):
night every time we played.

2 (57m 45s):
Somebody would

3 (57m 46s):
just start yelling and being out of control because he was up on stage doing the karaoke. So he kind of made himself the target

2 (57m 58s):
weight. So would it go both ways. Would it be like he would run the karaoke night and somebody would yell something at him. They would Heckle him about what had

1 (58m 4s):
happened. Absolutely and then there were people that felt sorry for him

2 (58m 8s):
because it would defend him.

3 (58m 9s):
Yes because he's an aging man and they're uneducated and they didn't understand what he did.

2 (58m 21s):
Russ estimates that maybe 10% of the club's members like President Trump another said the same thing but most of the Trump supporters keep it quiet most though definitely not all another contingent increasingly came into the club spoiling for a fight looking to mix it up Dan Hardman and Liz McCombs and a number of others say the loudest was a guy named Mike Powell.

1 (58m 45s):
He would pound his fist on the bar Trump Trump. Trump Trump trump

2 (58m 49s):
like Russ Mike's a lifelong Democrat member of the club for years who decided to support Trump. Dan Hartman told me Mike would come into his office at the club and try to convince Dan to defect like he had again. Here's Liz.

1 (59m 3s):
Why would you come to a Democratic Club

3 (59m 6s):
to be a Trumper? Like when you say that he

2 (59m 8s):
would pound his fist on the bar and say Trump Trump trump like that is what he would say

1 (59m 13s):
Trump Trump trump. literally And that's kind of how the Choppers are

3 (59m 21s):
that's exactly how Mike Powell

2 (59m 22s):
behaves. Surprisingly and unsurprisingly Mike Powell sees this whole situation differently Mike's account. He has not gone looking for fights about Trump. In fact, he feels if anything it's been the other way around.

1 (59m 37s):
I mean everybody knows how I feel and if somebody sits down next to me and starts cutting down Trump, I'll show you like you're talking to the wrong guy wrong I talk over there and you know, sometimes I get mad and oh, well,

2 (59m 56s):
there was a blow-up over the situation at a board meeting at the club when they discuss trusses support for Trump and the impact it was having According to a few accounts. I've heard someone a long time Democrats stood up and he said some version of half the board didn't even vote Democratic Club President Dan Hardman shot back saying that wasn't true though. I guess that comment about half the board is what produced the story that spread through Democratic circles and eventually made its way to Mayor Budaj at this meeting. Mike Powell told me he got called out as a trump supporter to which he held back. It's none of your business how I voted. Mike told me a staunch Democrat started shouting at Mike's wife, who is the club's Financial secretary is pointing a finger in her face.

2 (1h 0m 41s):
Mike told me he went up to the guy after the meeting and told him if he pointed a finger at his wife's face again, he'd break it off and shove it up his

1 (1h 0m 48s):
ass.

2 (1h 0m 56s):
Dan Hartman says he's done what he could to limit the damage as stories like this have circulated. He wrote in the newsletter telling people not to believe everything. They heard making it clear that it was a Democratic Club for Democrats. Dan told me leading up to all this membership at the club had already been declining but all this Strife it made it worse.

1 (1h 1m 17s):
We went down from from nearly a thousand members to right now. We're looking at maybe 300 any and and that membership is hard to keep together because we can ask you we can't get people to come down because They think that we turned our backs on them.

2 (1h 1m 38s):
He means Democrats didn't think the club was really for Democrats anymore.

1 (1h 1m 42s):
And there are some that I haven't seen him. I'll have three beers

2 (1h 1m 47s):
that must have been

1 (1h 1m 48s):
difficult to go through with a

2 (1h 1m 50s):
club that you'd been running and that you

1 (1h 1m 51s):
built over the course of years. So it was heartbreaking. It was really heartbreaking. I don't know. I don't know why they don't come back.

2 (1h 2m 8s):
My can dress the more they have come under attack from the Democratic friends the more they've sought the company of those who agree with them. Russ told me these days. He's relying almost entirely on Fox News. Both guys, read a lot of conservative stuff that they get from other Trump supporters on the internet Democrats want open borders President Obama wanted one world government. Mike said, he doesn't want Muslims in our government that's gives the tar out of me said as both of them what the Democrats might do to win them back if that was even possible breast said maybe for 2024, but I'm sticking with Trump. Mike told me he likes some of what he heard from Tulsi gabbard and Amy Klobuchar but really it was pretty unlikely.

1 (1h 2m 55s):
What do you think the Democrats don't understand about somebody like you or somebody like

2 (1h 3m 0s):
Russ who identified for a long time as a

1 (1h 3m 3s):
Democrat and then they and then they left for Trump. They think they care but in this deal they have an agenda and they don't care what we think anymore. I mean everything is about illegals and and the poor and everything else. They don't care about us anymore. They just don't it's just like we're irrelevant, you know, you don't give a shit about us.

2 (1h 3m 32s):
So if there was a democratic politician though, and you felt like that is somebody who cares about a guy like

1 (1h 3m 39s):
me that's a big deal.

2 (1h 3m 41s):
That's the kind of thing that could get you

1 (1h 3m 42s):
back. It's huge. Yes, you know. It ain't just what trunk. But it's about feeling like you matter. You know what I mean, if you think so, we don't give a crap about you. What does matter, you know, you're going to go towards somebody that cares somebody that you know think thinks you matter. That's that's that's about a mine. What about

2 (1h 4m 7s):
us? There's a certain schizophrenia to rest in Mike's politics these days even though they support President Trump. Their biggest concerns still do seem to be traditionally Democratic causes rest as he's concerned about health care. And if somebody could present a plan to get everybody covered he'd be for that Mike also worries about health care and the cost of prescription drugs and about the quality of public education in America. They both told me the story of the democratic party. They were loyal to that. They still loved was the story of a party that was for the little guy and against the big guy.

2 (1h 4m 48s):
I told them I think many of the Democrats running now still talk about the party that way and they're making proposals to do things that both men say they want but whatever the story the Democrats are telling Russ and Mike do not see themselves in it. The one part of the Democrats message that seems to be getting through to rest in Mike is just how badly they all want to get rid of trump which just makes them want to defend him. One Democrat who's had to come up with a strategy for how to deal with the Russ's in Mike's of the world is Club President Dan Harmon and his strategy could pretty much be boiled down to let's just all try to chill out some go easy on each other. Maybe have a beer.

2 (1h 5m 29s):
Russ isn't so interested in hearing from any Democratic politicians right now, but he also made a point of telling me about this thing the dam did for him after all this went down rest lest his wife Carol earlier this year. They've been together since high school after she died Russ got really depressed in the middle of that Dan organized a dinner for him and he held it at the Democratic Club Russ's that that meant so much to him. And so there is one Democrat. I know for a fact rest respects that he listens to that. He likes it's a guy who keeps letting him know. He's welcome to sit with him at the bar regardless of who's in the White House.

2 (1h 6m 12s):
Ben Calhoun is one of the producers of our show

1 (1h 6m 22s):
conversation. Just a couple of arms a little time. We'll wasted trying to figure out trying to figure out girls tryna find our place and this crazy love Hawk my spirits today by Zoe

2 (1h 6m 44s):
Chase would happen on a baker people put together. Today's show includes manual Barry Ben Calhoun Sean called them engrave Jessica's not Niki me: in the cities, don't Nelson Catherine my Mondo been feeling naughty Raymond Tracy Roland. I've been semien Christopher Street alamat, Tierney and Nancy Updike. I managing editors Diane. We were executive editors David kestenbaum special. Thanks today to Sarah Dryden Peterson Moses a child who the Pew Research Center in Dr. In Hamburg Betty Olivier and any grounds our website This American Life Dot We can stream our Archive of over 680 episodes and there's videos and tons of other stuff there too. We get our app which is all that stuff and us to let you download as many episodes as you want again this American life.org This American Life is to give it a public radio stations by PRX the public radio exchange sport for This American Life comes from the Lagunitas Brewing Company feeling stories and songs with Lagunitas IPA.

2 (1h 7m 36s):
And of course committed him in the pub in public radio find out more. I want you and Lagunitas.com. Thanks as always to our programs co-founder. Mr. Tory morality, you know just signed up with a Hair Club for man. He seems to be taking it very seriously, but to be honest, I am not sure he understands

1 (1h 7m 54s):
it my desire to have this club succeeded just he met humongous. I mean, I do anything goes wrong with his Club. It's I feel it's part of me.

2 (1h 8m 3s):
I'm Ira Glass back next week with more stories of This American Life. conversation next week on the podcast of this american guy 5 the answer damn fire department got a new boss named Lane who describes the firefighters working for him this way the angry white man.

2 (1h 8m 45s):
We still have them mine starts a war with his own Department which fights back hard and with incredibly very about this. He lets us inside to see everything watch it all go down. That's next week on the podcast on your local public radio station.