3 (1s):
Support for This American Life comes from the Capital One Saver Card earn four percent cash back on dining and entertainment 2% at grocery stores and one percent on all other purchases. Now when you go out you cash in Capital One what's in your wallet terms apply and from zip recruiter hiring can be challenging but there's one place you can go where hiring is simple and smart zip recruiter. We're growing businesses connect to qualified candidates. Try it for free @ zip recruiter.com American zip recruiter the smartest way to hire.

3 (41s):
A quick warning. There are curse words that are unbeaten today's episode of the show. If you prefer a beeped version, you can find that at our website This American Life dot-org. Okay. So let's start here. This is a training video for firefighters in Amsterdam. If I am in an office drinking coffee catching up then one of them this big bald guy gets up to show the others this new helmet that he's just gotten fix up a box off the floor. This is what is that makes a face it stinks too. It smells his fingers. What is that? It's p this conversation understandably turns to speculation on how the P might have gotten there.

3 (1m 27s):
Where'd you find this? Yes, but if you sauna Asia at the Depot got to show you think it was a cat. It was not a cat the honest Johnny put the rest of the video which is entitled the incident with the helmet goes on for a few minutes explaining why it is not a good idea to pee in your colleagues helmet, even if it's a joke like that can make people feel bad and unwelcome. And the reason the fire department needed a video like this was it firefighters were peeing and their co-workers helmets and their drinks and had been for years. This is a reenactment of an actual incident Amsterdam firefighters had a kind of Macho frat house sort of culture and for women who came to work there or anybody who wasn't white it was rough and all kinds of ways pranks bullying racist jokes sexist comments, when we describe the environment is alienating one Moroccan firefighter said what we want is not super special.

3 (2m 30s):
We just want normal behavior normal treatment of people. The boss has had problems with him to the firefighters would simply ignore certain orders to change the way they worked back in 2011. The mayor of Amsterdam commanded them do some straightforward things like perform more Home Inspections pass out smoke detectors switch from 24-hour shifts to 8 hour shifts a year passed and another and another after five years still nothing. They pretty much blown off his request. Then I didn't like to hear no Palm books as a reporter at Amsterdam's biggest newspaper had parole. He's covered the fire department for over 20 years. He put his fist on the table and said and now it's over and now I'll send you a strongman.

3 (3m 14s):
He'll change the fire brigade in the way. I wanted to change the strongman. The mayor brought in was a guy named Elaine hop, it's very frightening experience before this nothing. He's been his whole career working at the Amsterdam police department and he wasn't just an outsider. He was somebody with reputation for being a real hard-ass. I expected a riot because the way they live in the fire stations being all day and night together cook together sleep together that makes in the end that outside US don't get in easily here in Amsterdam. The fire stations are really like small castles in the neighborhood.

3 (3m 57s):
There's 19 fire stations all around Amsterdam every seven hundred fifty firefighters five hundred full-time 250 volunteer every game with the same problems as lots of brigades here in the United States and for sure not all fire houses are like this just not hard to find examples outside of Chicago male firefighters broke down there female co-workers shower door while she was in there showering the chief handed her a towel and said Relax, it's Firehouse fun. And Houston women say they're male co-workers peed on their beds and when they complained they will be able troublemakers City could not substantiate those claims, but the Trump justice department has stepped in on the women's side, Miami and New York black fire department employees found nooses at work in Michigan a black firefighter found a banana on the windshield of his truck.

3 (4m 47s):
Amsterdam is one of the rare examples of a city that really decides to take on the kind of boys club culture and firehouses and the firefighters don't lay down. They fight every step of the way and one thing is unusual about the guy running this department Lane slap is that he is shockingly Frank about just how messed up is Department really is one of his tactics is to be utterly transparent and show the public what he learns is happening behind the closed doors of the firehouses. He's also a blunt about the pushback against and so unlike other fire departments and police departments with similar problems in this case for once. We see exactly how bad things were laid bare. And we also see all the resistance when somebody comes in and tries to change it.

3 (5m 30s):
We see just how hard that is to accomplish This American Life. I'm Ira Glass today on our show. We have this very unusual. Look inside a place like this reporter. Joanna kisses has been digging into this for months that'll be act one of today's show and this is such an embattled Department that the only way Joanna could get most of the firefighters to talk to her was to change their names and replace their voices. So you're going to be hearing a bunch of that and what's about to follow basically only lane Swap and one of his main opponents. Let us use their voices are producer making me cry reported this with Joanna. You'll hear me Keys voice in there now and then asking questions, here's Joanna

1 (6m 6s):
to take on a bunch of tough guys the mayor hired someone who is used to being the toughest guy in the room. Lane's hop climb to the upper ranks of the Amsterdam Police Department by speaking his mind and not caring who didn't like it. He got things done by moving quickly and aggressively here and the riot Squad he was known in town for forcing. Anarchists squatting in a full city block of abandoned homes. Amsterdam is a progressive City and sympathy was with the squatters. Lots of people hated Lane for what he did. They threw paint bombs at

3 (6m 38s):
him really love latest Dido cover

1 (6m 40s):
only cowardly leaders don't show up my interviews with hammer filled with these kind of tough guy cliches.

3 (6m 46s):
No destroyed

1 (6m 47s):
- this is a battle and one of us is going to win it and it's not going to be you. Sometimes it was hard to keep a straight face.

3 (6m 55s):
No somebody put on through this when you something for a

1 (6m 57s):
fortune, I'm in the fire department. So I'm not really worried about getting burned. Okay, you're tough. You're tough Lane smile, he knows when he's laying it on thick. He's intense with reddish brown hair and blue eyes that look incredibly I see if you've pissed him off his first week on the job. There's a welcome lunch for him firefighters. Don't show up. Then he gets an anonymous letter telling him not to enter any fire stations. He goes anyway and Notices right away, there's nowhere for him to park. The fire stations parking spaces are filled with recreational

3 (7m 32s):
vehicles boat Skippers get a fishing

1 (7m 36s):
boats with Caravans with campervans because basically the firefighters were using this area around the firehouse is their private space saying, you know, we're here 24 hours. This is kind of our house. This is our place Lane gave firefighters their first order. He said get all your personal stuff out of here. Then they said you don't run the show you are not the one who decides this actually said you don't run this you don't run this. What's

3 (8m 3s):
your problem? That's what I said. What's your problem?

1 (8m 7s):
I'm kind of belittling. Why are you getting so worked up about this little but we have and what was your response to that?

3 (8m 17s):
It meant that vehicle can hunt half of it because you have been a new interview. I told them

1 (8m 22s):
you have to get these boats in the camper vans out of here. If not, I'm going to hire somebody to take all that stuff away to be dots and they were like, oh go ahead and I took a step forward flexion and stood my ground. I threatened to take a police Crane and lift it out of there. Firefighters were Furious and thought Wayne was acting too much like an uptight cop, but everyone complied they got rid of their boats and campers except for one guy who ignored Lane and defiantly brought a boat right back the only boat in the parking lot Lane put him on probation and moved him to another Firehouse. It was one of his first disciplinary actions the guy retaliated by not coming to work and taking the department to Port.

1 (9m 11s):
Lane was figuring things out pretty fast. He estimated the were about 50 of these guys in the entire department guys who joined the Brigade decades ago and now ran their fire stations, they kept tabs on their bosses through a private WhatsApp Channel some firefighters called them the Brotherhood laying always called them

3 (9m 29s):
the angry white man. We still have them

1 (9m 34s):
angry white man. He says who are against any change that would force them out of their golden cages in you guys exactly like this in his Police Department days the

3 (9m 44s):
chuppah made with the market Heaven shall be killed a four-year-old sex

1 (9m 47s):
traffickers. These are tough guys born and raised in Amsterdam and the streets, you know, they're Elijah build like a refrigerator. They have lots of tattoos to have big mouths. They're not so much super smart, but they're cunning

3 (10m 2s):
and

1 (10m 4s):
if you try to approach them with too much new ones, then you're not going to make it. Because they know how to play and then a few months and his job Moroccan firefighters on the force started coming to him about a particular guy one of the Brotherhood who called them cancer Moroccans in Dutch. This is a racial slur when I asked for an English equivalent. Someone told me cancer Moroccan is like saying fucking Moroccan scum.

3 (10m 29s):
Also, most of Belushi in Amsterdam Vista team on of the same wood.

1 (10m 32s):
And also when he was supposed to put out fires in Amsterdam West where there's a lot of Muslims living he would say that he had to go to the caliphate. This guy had a long list of charges against him. He walked around in a Nazi jacket. He threatened a nail crucifix to the shower door of a Muslim firefighter and he refused to go to a fire drill at a mosque. Again Lane

3 (10m 53s):
dot is shown for building on the Dodge van did dirt for I

1 (10m 56s):
got this is really wrong. What if there's a fire in a mosque. Will he do his job? Will he save for people if he doesn't want to go in there now for the practice and as a first responder in this Multicultural City You can't say that you don't want to go somewhere because of religion

3 (11m 11s):
and a for the Shaka betrothed it and take him he music made Hoon.

1 (11m 17s):
So when I heard about this case, I thought I have to do something about this. I can't believe this lie Lane fired him. It was the first time racism had been cited as a reason to fire someone from the Amsterdam fire department. So he'd gotten rid of the boats. He'd fired a guy for racism progress, but the Brotherhood started a petition for the firefighter to get his job back. How did you feel about that

3 (11m 42s):
know that they've made over will open it

1 (11m 45s):
really opened my eyes instead of kind of uniting around the people who were discriminated against the United against the person who was discriminating and they formed a block around him the problem rent so much deeper than line thought why wouldn't they want to stick up for the guy getting harassed for laying it was obvious. He instinctively excited with the firefighter getting picked on and he Understand anyone who didn't that empathy for the outsider it made Lane and unusual Commander. So he started investigating to figure out just how bad things were the numbers were not encouraging when Lane started there were only five female firefighters on the entire full-time force of 500.

1 (12m 27s):
The fire department is not allowed to record race, but he estimates that only around 10% of the force were people of color. These numbers didn't reflect the city at all. At least a third of Amsterdam's population is non-white Lane visited the fire stations and talked to Firefighters over coffee at the long lunch tables there and he learned that lots of them like the changes he was bringing in he had to silent band of support. He asked people about their experiences in the department and his surprise people opened up to him through their stories. He started to get a sense of what it was like to be a person of color or a woman in his fire department Moroccan and surinamese firefighters said they were called rats and monkeys.

1 (13m 8s):
The Brotherhood told some they didn't belong that firefighter should be Dutch and white one Muslim firefighter. I'm calling a lie told me that over time. He learned to go along with the racial slurs. So when his co-workers called him Bin Laden he acted like he wasn't upset

3 (13m 25s):
you have to ignore it. If they find out that you don't like it. They'll keep on coming back and back and back.

1 (13m 32s):
Have you ever reported discrimination in the past?

3 (13m 36s):
It wasn't possible to do that Nobody Does it you could report whatever you want but nothing was going to happen in a worse of cases when it really got out of hand would you would just do is shake hands on it and get it over the one accused. He'll just say, ah, come on man was a joke. Nothing's going to

1 (13m 52s):
happen. Lane hired a consultant to help them Reach Out to women who quit the department they felt like they'd never belonged. They said harassment and belittlement happened every hour of the day one woman said men and her station asked her to leave the room. So they could comment on her ass men told women to sit in the windows of the firehouse as if they were prostitutes in the red light district during job interviews women were asked how they do their jobs on their periods. One of the few female officers in the Amsterdam. Fire department is a woman. I'm calling you D the guys respected her she was strong physically and she was tough had no problem standing up to these guys, but even she felt like she was constantly being tested like when a firefighter under her command purposely opened his towel in front of her when she suggested that her boss is not put women in Two Fire Stations alone, but with other women one of her superiors called her a highly educated moaning female.

1 (14m 50s):
One night. She was doing around checking in on everyone and stop by the canteen. I was saying good night to everybody and then they were sitting and watching porn. Did you say something then? No, so I didn't I didn't say anything about that porn was a regular thing in the common areas of lots of the station's. I don't know why I don't know why I didn't say anything. I didn't feel

3 (15m 17s):
comfortable to say probably it's

1 (15m 21s):
also me being influenced by the by the Brotherhood I think because saying something

3 (15m 26s):
it's it's always uncomfortable to say that

1 (15m 29s):
so yeah, I have to admit that. I've avoided it to everyone's grip on what was normal was out of whack UD remembers a woman at a fire station who had this particular bedtime ritual so she would go to bed and somebody would come to Tucker in wait, they talked her into bed at night. Like what exactly do you mean? Oh talking in it was like when you put your little one to sleep and you pull your blanket Stites around the person so the guy who would do that said I'm going to tuck her in and I felt uncomfortable about that for her. I mean it was her choice, but I would never do that because it makes a certain situation that I think you should avoid.

1 (16m 13s):
She was fine with it as he didn't mind this happening. Well, actually, I don't know. I can't remember having ever talking to her about that. Yeah,

3 (16m 28s):
that's a good question.

1 (16m 30s):
Maybe I might be putting her more in a danger or you know, I might not be helping her or maybe I was telling myself. Well, maybe it's her choice and and she likes it or something. But yeah, I don't know. Hearing all these stories Lane realized he had to spell things out. What is normal behavior in a workplace. He wrote a Manifesto on how to behave like a professional firefighter and sent it out to everyone. It begins. All of us are going to act normal normalmente. We don't yell at each other.

1 (17m 10s):
We don't steal coffee from the firehouses. We don't make offensive comments on social media. We always wear our uniforms. We don't store our personal tanning beds in the women's dormitory is if we're men if you break the rules you'll be punished and if you no longer know what normal is, please find out one of the biggest ways firefighting is not like a normal job firefighters worked 24 hour shifts. So everyone loves together. They work out shop for groceries cook. Watch TV play soccer sleep professional boundaries get blurry. Lane wanted to push the department to eight hour shifts. It would make fire stations more like a workplace and less like a private

3 (17m 53s):
club and dajjal is just a little kinked Doterra. Therefore.

1 (17m 57s):
I think the fire department many of the firefighters will fight almost literally to the death to defend this 24-hour shift firefighters liked being together for 24 hours and hanging out and then getting a couple days off to spend with their families or hold down second jobs and the Brotherhood argued that bonding in the fire station is essential the pushback was so strong that laying managed to open just one firehouse on eight-hour shifts as an experiment the Brotherhood pressured firefighters not to transfer their The guys and the Brotherhood are afraid to talk to reporters everyone.

1 (18m 39s):
I reached out to was worried. He'd lose his job. But I did get four of them to speak to me on the condition that I not use their names. I'll call this one Ian. He did. Let me use his real

3 (18m 49s):
voice.

1 (18m 51s):
He said the problem in the department wasn't them it was lame and talking women in too bad. He said it wasn't sexist

3 (18m 58s):
guy can only confirm that they did it by me as well and I didn't felt embarrassed about it at that moment, but

1 (19m 4s):
about from you into bed. Is that

3 (19m 7s):
the man? Yeah, come on. Yeah, there are yolk sometimes, you know, it's I also went to bed and I stepped in my bed and somebody else come from the shower and he was already before me in my bed. So this kind of things happen,

1 (19m 22s):
but like if you're a woman and somebody is talking you into bed. It's a different experience and

3 (19m 29s):
it's not something that that I want to shock you or they want to embarrass. Order yeah, but I guess what I'm saying is

1 (19m 37s):
okay. There are people who are minorities and who are women. They're just too afraid to speak out to you because they're afraid of repercussions.

3 (19m 45s):
They say it's so stupid. If I say all the time, it doesn't happen. All that doesn't happen. It probably happened one with one female employee and probably one female employee left also now, do you have to say then? Okay. This is a sexist company or all the females are bullied or all the Arabic people are bullied. I don't think so.

1 (20m 10s):
I asked him about the firefighter Lane fired the one who called the Muslim neighborhood in Amsterdam, the caliphate and used racial slurs on his Moroccan coworkers.

3 (20m 19s):
He's not a racist. That's for 100%

1 (20m 24s):
What do you mean? What do you mean by

3 (20m 25s):
that is an incident still an incident in a big and a big company don't make it bigger than it is. I'm 29 years with my wife, you know, if I focus on all the bad things that I said about her and we would never get married, you know, they should have fired him earlier. No, no, no. No, you don't have to find it all. As long as you're not running around naked in his roller skates is okay to me.

1 (20m 55s):
You think you can use a term like cancer Moroccan and you're not a

3 (20m 58s):
racist not okay, but In the Heat of the discussion you say things are not okay that you are not allowed to say and and and obviously party will do the same probably. Yeah. And what was right and what was wrong? I don't judge that I was not there but one thing is for sure. I know he's not a racist.

1 (21m 19s):
You know, how much do you think that the force should adapt to new

3 (21m 23s):
firefighters? The thing is when we have the feeling that that we are forced to change then it's going to be that's in my opinion the wrong way, you know, so if you want to change the trick is not to force it and do it in a very clever way that you in a clever way that you change without. All the same that will be the perfect way and this is not happening right

1 (21m 55s):
now. This is what Lane says he was up against a group of man for whom normal and keeping things exactly the way that always

3 (22m 2s):
been

1 (22m 9s):
I was just wondering dozen a boss have the right to impose boundaries on

3 (22m 13s):
workplaces. We are not in this business for him. It's not a job. It's a way of life worldwide. So let me make this very clear that is not for us. It's not a job. It's a way of life.

1 (22m 34s):
Lane's approach to making big institutional change is based on a progressive fairly new management Theory designed to curb Lawless organizations. It's essentially draw hard boundaries make no concessions be consistent unrelenting and in 10 to 15 years. Maybe they'll be a real shift. Its arduous. The beginning is the hardest part this approach made a lot of sense to Lane because of his experience on the Amsterdam police force. He helped clean up and reform the department as a rookie cop he'd seen the problems firsthand. He started in a corrupt Precinct the red light district in the 1980's. He says cops stole sold drugs were excessively violent changing that meant rigorously enforcing rules writing up bad cops disciplining them firing them.

1 (23m 25s):
Lane says it took about 10 years for the rules to be accepted as normal but this confrontational approach is not the way things usually work in the Netherlands.

3 (23m 34s):
You look Nate along,

1 (23m 36s):
you know, the Dutch culture is very much everything piece everything together no conflict. And with the fire department the kind of traditional recipe is talking talking talking the Dutch have this term pulled remodel the take pride in it. The idea is to bring everyone together despite their differences just like their ancestors came together to build dikes and dams to protect their land from the sea. Historians debate whether that's actually true. But anyway everyone from Parliament to the local amateur soccer club tries to make decisions this way through discussions and consensus Lane did dabble in polder modal a little in the beginning.

1 (24m 16s):
He spent his first six months going to fire stations trying to convince people that diversity would make them a stronger fire department in a city with almost a hundred and 70 nationalities and that women bring pragmatism and emotional intelligence of the Brigade. But Lane was almost always met with blank stares guys told him women aren't strong enough for this job. One of them said you just want an excuse to bring in a hundred broads again. Here's Lane

3 (24m 41s):
this food. He'll fail is a discussion over deficit at intellectual Hornet

1 (24m 46s):
Harbor intellectually. It's kind of hard to have these conversations about diversity and I don't sound as sound crass and I don't want to be unkind about my people but some of them are kind of too stupid to keep having this diversity conversation and convince him that way and it's some point you kind of just have to say that we're going to stop

3 (25m 3s):
talking about it which is going to do it and we're going to do it this way. You know,

1 (25m 7s):
this is an organization. It's not some kind of democratic Kumbaya thing. We're all going to talk about it in a new majority rules. You can take it or leave it. He was done reasoning with them. You didn't have to after all he had the full support of Mayor eberhardt Van Der laan. It was wildly popular the city adored him. He snubbed Vladimir Putin when he was in town because of the Russian leaders, Anti-lgbt views the city council back the mayor and he backed Lane which meant with the mayor's support Lane could do whatever he wanted. He had a big idea for how to get the kind of accountability. He wanted in the fire department

3 (25m 50s):
coming up you can disappoint people you can threaten their jobs, but when all else fails try to talk show this in a minute, I'm just gonna go public radio when our program continues Support for This American Life comes from Capital One with the Capital One Saver Card. You can earn four percent cash back on dining and entertainment that means four percent on checking out that new French restaurant and 4% on bowling with your friends. You'll also earn 2% cash back at grocery stores and one percent on all other purchases. Now when you go out you cash in Capital One what's in your wallet terms apply and from zip recruiter zip recruiter sends your job to over 100 of the web's leading job boards, but they don't stop there with their powerful matching technology.

3 (26m 42s):
Zip recruiter scans thousands of resumes to find people with the right experience and invites them to apply to your job. It's so effective that four out of five employers who post get a quality candidate within the first day you can try zip recruiter for free at this exclusive web address. Zip recruiter.com / American that's zip recruiter.com / American zip recruiter the smartest way to hire It's as American - Ira Glass Today Show burn it down. We have two stories of people who think they have. No other choice. It is time to burn everything down make enemies do what has to be done. We're in the middle of Act One a policeman burns down a firehouse Joanna kisses in this act is reporting on the Amsterdam fire department the resistance to change from inside the department and in this F of her story had the bigger politics of the city start to shift everything quick programming note before we start the second half of this Joanna discovered when she started looking into this story that the fire commanders partner who's a journalist is somebody who Joanna has worked with in the past.

3 (27m 47s):
Joanna has not discussed the content of the story with this journalist. The journalist was not involved in the story in any way. Again, here's Joanna

1 (27m 54s):
Lane had devised a very unusual plan. But to pull it off. He had to enlist the mayor. He did something that I've rarely seen any public official do he took all his criticisms about his own fire department and made them public and by doing so he made himself the biggest critic of some of the most beloved figures and Amsterdam, imagine the head of the police department in New York or Chicago publishing a long list of all the bad stuff their officers had done it would blow up in their faces that did not happen to Lane. Here's how he went about it. He started by writing a single letter to the mayor detailing his findings about discrimination and bullying at the fire department

3 (28m 35s):
did Issue and Aunt Bee need a chaperone fear and I have that relation

1 (28m 39s):
actually read the letter there was a certain surprise because I think he literally said I thought there were all kinds of things going on, but it turns out there was even more going on than I thought but now I actually have the proof. And now we're going to work on this together

3 (28m 55s):
doing diverse a medallion for the hunt

1 (28m 57s):
in response the mayor wrote his own letter blasting the fire department and sent it with Lanes to the city council making them public record reporters pounced. I did you and the mayor the did the two of you talk about it as sort of a

3 (29m 11s):
strategy. Yeah. Yeah. It smells it was obsolete. Well my need a my over

1 (29m 18s):
lift. It was absolutely my idea and I knew it was going to end up in the media. They knew this is going to make the papers over. So that was something that I thought before that if I write this letter, there's going to be a certain amount of pressure that would get the municipal Council and also the public to see that something needed to be

3 (29m 36s):
done and painfully ding is datuk. But first they'll have a kosher home are like a mediator half Rotella. This

1 (29m 45s):
was very very calculated even to the point where I did use words that I knew the media would pounce on to get a discussion going.

3 (29m 53s):
Like what Russ it's me. This cream energy

1 (29m 57s):
racism discrimination believe them about losing. These are terms that I know are going to get people's attention. It's really unusual for a public official to do something like

3 (30m 9s):
this the soaked so my dad would have the tocqueville

1 (30m 12s):
effect. Yes. It is extremely unusual but it makes it very effective and I looked at what former fire commanders did and I felt that they didn't use the possibilities they had enough and I consciously decided I'm going to make war and that means you have to get your hands dirty and you have to go public. Do you remember any discussion you had with the mayor or with anyone else who was less sure that this was the right

3 (30m 42s):
way.

1 (30m 45s):
Yeah. Yeah.

3 (30m 48s):
Okay. Yeah. Okay. What about aquatic was spewed in mind. I'm craving.

1 (30m 53s):
Angst what I noticed in with the people around me was mostly fear. And so that was a lot of the people in management here. They supported me but they were kind of reticent because they knew this kind of organization. If you go looking for a fight you're going to get a fight did the mayor ever have any reservations about this as a

3 (31m 13s):
strategy not one second

1 (31m 17s):
the details of lanes report landed on the front page of the main newspaper in Amsterdam, then the mayor and Lane went on a media blitz. Then you say hey, here's laying on a radio show flinging open the doors on what really goes on inside a firehouse the host of the program says Tulane. So what you found was a very Macho culture. Can you give me some examples of that

3 (31m 39s):
all shit also modicon Circle layer on top of

1 (31m 42s):
it if you're sitting at a table and your Moroccan and something comes on TV about Islam then people start talking about those cancer Moroccans and when you're sitting there as a serious professional firefighter, it has an effect on you and then of course, you're the exception like, hey, we don't mean you it's those other cancer Moroccans. That's one

3 (32m 1s):
example to Mordecai Pokémon change the overlay of defeated feel hooting Celica of mine slab geometry sheet

1 (32m 7s):
and I've got people telling me I can survive the 24-hour shift. I'll just stay in my room and then as a group you could think like, okay somebody spending the whole shift in the room, but you could also think what's going on here,

3 (32m 19s):
but these are on the home techniques also rocket Lobster delay hip

1 (32m 22s):
and that's really what I want to happen that we are able to Gage with each other in a healthy way people wrote to newspaper saying they were repulsed by the firefighters Behavior city council member said they were shocked the mayor told Lane to keep pushing on with his reforms but inside the firehouses lanes tactics did not go over. Well his support trunk even people who agreed with his goals who thought he was fighting the good fight felt like he was smearing everyone lumping them together making them all look bad the

3 (32m 52s):
way that he did that. He turned every firefighter against

1 (32m 55s):
him. This is a long time firefighter of color in the

3 (32m 58s):
Brigade Lane in the mirror went about his really radically they used to newspapers to try to turn public opinion against us. They were very very hurtful stories in the newspapers that we were racist that we were sexist all kinds of old stories really from a decade or more ago were brought back to paint a black picture of us.

1 (33m 17s):
And of course, the Brotherhood was pest it was a public declaration of war on social media firefighters called Lane in the mayor. No, it all political losers and vile full of lies. They wrote indict this mayor and have him sued for defamation and thanks Lane. We're all painted like a bunch of racists inside the firehouses. The atmosphere changed attitudes hardened again. Here's a lie, the firefighter color who says his white co-workers called him Bin Laden. He said things got worse for anyone who wasn't white

3 (33m 53s):
something literally broke. And now for the first time you see that people for instance won't shake your hand. There's this tradition after we put out a fire. We always sit on the side. We have a coffee and all the firemen shake each other's hands. That's that's really a tradition. And now for the first time since I've been here white firefighters are refusing to shake our hands.

1 (34m 20s):
Meanwhile Lane got more done than ever. He doubled down on recruitment went to mosques. A nurse during Ramadan try to convince more people of color and women to join the fire brigade slowly those numbers have increased. He also backed managers who disciplined Bad actors. He streamlined work ships opened a new firehouse and improved fire prevention. He made home safer by sending firefighters door-to-door in the city Lane with the backing of the mayor was making the kinds of changes. He was hired to make an exactly the way he wanted to make them quickly and aggressively. But then something happened that lane hadn't accounted for six months into his job mayor eberhardt Van Der laan revealed.

1 (35m 2s):
He was sick lung cancer a half year later. He died. Immediately the ground started to shift under Lane when the mayor died the Brotherhood grew emboldened. Here's Lane

3 (35m 15s):
about it. But if the mid Namib internet from from feel Mama decided to find out he dhotis

1 (35m 19s):
people commented that it was great that he died and there was even Somebody went from the land was on his deathbed who said from their land the cockroach is slipping

3 (35m 27s):
away one called distraught

1 (35m 29s):
flee and that was quite shocking somebody is on his deathbed from cancer and your kind of rejoicing in that but for them, it really was one enemy less soon a campaign to push laying out of his job kicked into high gear retired firefighters and unions rallied around the Brotherhood publicly demanding that the city investigate Lane for bad-mouthing the fire department in the media firefighters did interviews anonymously denouncing Lane in a conservative newspaper the biggest paper in the Netherlands. From the moment the mayor announced he was sick Lane started getting Anonymous death threats one letter said a hit man was being hired another targeted his fourteen-year-old daughter.

1 (36m 12s):
He was told the threats were coming from inside the fire department. In the summer of 2018 Amsterdam got an energetic new mayor the first woman in the city's history Femme qahal Seema. She was Lanes new boss and spent many years in Parliament as a high-profile lawmaker, representing the left-wing green party a champion of women's rights as a politician. She pushed her tax breaks to address poverty. She also wrote newspaper columns and made a documentary about Muslim women mayor haul some a condemned the death threats against Lane and publicly threw her support behind him, but not long after she started laying remembers her stopping by for a private meeting.

1 (36m 59s):
He told her about some of the changes he was trying to make her reaction chalked him

3 (37m 4s):
from the bürgermeister is

1 (37m 5s):
elif. Well, we having this conversation about racism and discrimination. The mayor herself came with the following example. Apparently, she heard it from one of the fire stations or so one of the firemen told her she did we have a number of black colleagues working here and ancient the vet.

3 (37m 23s):
States who named her

1 (37m 25s):
and there was one that all the other firefighters were calling Ser which is like a Dutch name and that wasn't his name. It was a racist word play joke. They look for reasons to say no to him so they could say no hair or in Dutch nay hair which means negro

3 (37m 44s):
and they should become a star mu star hot. Look I'm like I said like that vintage SO

1 (37m 48s):
the mayor laughed about this and said, this is really funny. I find this extremely hilarious. She's seriously

3 (37m 56s):
laughed so she locked her hail heart.

1 (37m 59s):
She laughed very loudly and for me that was really kind of pivotal moment in which I realized I am fighting against all this and I am dealing with the mayor who thinks this is funny.

3 (38m 14s):
They'll take a normal shock to us. That's a good Locker.

1 (38m 19s):
I told her I was immensely shocked that she had to laugh. This so-called humorous remarks and I really asked her the Victor been what is going wrong here. Are

3 (38m 29s):
that type of a or

1 (38m 31s):
garnet? We are Hosmer via email denied Lanes account. She says she's only told the joke in meetings as an example of quote intolerable behaviour. That's not always recognized as such by firefighters. For laying that moment crystallised the world of difference between his old and new boss after that he gave up on her. Mayor how some I had like the rest of Amsterdam sea Lanes fight with the firefighters play out in the media and she didn't like it. She like talking about problems and reaching consensus the Dutch way.

1 (39m 11s):
Fire department managers who sat in on meetings with the new mayor and Lane said it was clear right away that they didn't get along. But sometimes it was abrasive their styles were totally different. They called the mayor Tai Chi and Lane boxing the mayor ordered her own investigation into the fire department. The new investigation acknowledged there were problems, but it concluded that overall. The fire department was quote at its core not a racist or sexist organization and to called online to take a different approach and build trust with firefighters a city hall reporter told me this report basically through Lane under the bus when it came out at the end of 2018 Lane had been on the job for about two and a half years.

1 (39m 54s):
I spoke to him around this time. He seemed unfazed by the report. He was still going about the business of reforming the fire department an airing it's dirty laundry like this problem firefighter

3 (40m 6s):
not only looks like I might have gotten sloppy.

1 (40m 9s):
He's not fired yet, but I'm going to fire him. Done. So here's the situation there was a group of firefighters in a supermarket because there were doing shopping for their fire

3 (40m 18s):
houses.

1 (40m 19s):
They were all in their uniform standing at the register and at the register there was also an elderly lady on a

3 (40m 26s):
Mobility Scooter Sasha the build doll model at home at five-30 Toronto.

1 (40m 32s):
She's trying to pay for her groceries and a hundred and fifty Euros falls out of her pockets and and one of the firemen sees that and that she drops this money and puts it into his saw and walked out with it or TBI. Well, you know sometimes passes and the elderly lady goes home and she realizes her money's gone the woman check back with the story about her missing cash and security camera showed one of lanes men putting her money in his sock taking an old lady's money while you're wearing your firefighters uniform, of course that did not fly with Lane the police got involved. It was embarrassing and outrageous blossoming have to fit the reaction isn't like. Oh my God, I can't believe he That money

3 (41m 12s):
to chicon all of my loom the defense down in plants from the side

1 (41m 15s):
fleur-de-lis instead. The reaction is that it's ridiculous that I'm going to fire him because he returned the money to the police.

3 (41m 31s):
Additional for the

1 (41m 31s):
ice this bring a group of firefighters showed up at a city council meeting the air their grievances against Lane also, they're retired firefighters a firefighter named Mike Snyder stood at a Podium. He's clean cut has a baby face. He read a statement. We're looking at Normandy Chicago Hope I'm here to speak of

3 (41m 50s):
not enough is enough. Even though I'm taking a huge Risk by speaking here today. I'm willing to take that risk for my colleagues who are having complete mental breakdowns. Our leaders have chosen to bad-mouth has in the media and that makes us feel unsafe both in public and at the fire stations to we're constantly walking on

1 (42m 11s):
eggshells.

3 (42m 13s):
The fire department leadership has proven time and again that they aren't interested in building trust. There will always be fear and distrust. This is Broken marriage that can't be fixed, but the neat little I am of Old Uncle dunk.

1 (42m 31s):
He said Lane made it so firefighters couldn't do their jobs properly and that it was threatening the safety of everyone in Amsterdam and city council person asking the same more British than anything.

3 (42m 43s):
All right constant almost same with the

1 (42m 44s):
character of the curved line it off knows how to make a profit

3 (42m 47s):
constantly having to look around to make sure that the leadership isn't looking over our shoulders. Then we can't do our jobs

1 (42m 54s):
City council's a political position you get voted in and like the fire department. It doesn't reflect the city. It's mostly white Under the old mayor the council was in full support of Lane when he first exposed the racism and sexism in the department two years before this they'd been on his side. But now that was old news. The public had moved on Amsterdam's a progressive City, but on race, it has blind spots during the holidays some people still wear black face when they dress up as Saint Nick's helpers and the public shock over the racism and sexism in the department didn't last what was more shocking Was the way lane was speaking out. The city council was tired of laying waging this loud messy fight and at this meeting they were sympathetic to Lanes critics.

1 (43m 41s):
Not Nick met a person at the moment. There's one city councilwoman saying I know you can't talk to the Press, but you can come to me. She also said I think it's very brave of you to be here today. We'll start with you from - that retired firefighters jumped up from their chairs gave a standing

3 (43m 58s):
ovation - they're annoyed. Jo kick on man veronique me a dune.

1 (44m 10s):
He literally said I can't do my job because I feel that the boss is like looking over my shoulder and like well, this is really you can't do your job when somebody is looking at what you're doing Lane says cops you the same arguments to fight any change

3 (44m 24s):
in many roam the public opinion.

1 (44m 27s):
How do you alarm sublet opinion by suggesting that what we're doing is making the public

3 (44m 31s):
unsafe for can continue so far but Burbank CA

1 (44m 35s):
if they can't do their job because they are afraid then that's unsafe for the public Warehouse. Am I did not feel the same way after the meeting. She gave this interview to local

3 (44m 43s):
news Outlet reasons your girlfriend's machine. So I'll spend at Sheraton Dutch open in the rectum and you know shiny patriarca shocking Bergman the hook shot at home.

1 (44m 53s):
She says, of course, it's very worrying if they don't have a good work environment that can indirectly affect their ability to do their jobs.

3 (44m 60s):
Well Mark,

1 (45m 2s):
and we do have to take these firefighters concerns seriously. slate after that city council meeting Lane knew he was running out of options city council had lost faith in him. The mayor was not on his side and 400 firefighters more than half. The Brigade signed a petition saying they didn't trust him to run the department. Inside the Fire Department Lane supporter started to hear rumors. I caught up with some of them in may not long after the city council meeting. Do you think commanders hop is about to get fired?

3 (45m 39s):
I hope I hope it's not fast. I hope he doesn't leave

1 (45m 43s):
again. Here's a lie. What would that mean for you personally, if he was

3 (45m 48s):
I'd be very disappointed. What he did is give minorities a platform where they could speak out and that wasn't there before him. Now. We're we're in direct contact with the upper echelons of management. We can immediately reach them ask for help. We get a lot of support and that definitely makes a difference.

1 (46m 9s):
Lane had been there almost three years and a lie in a couple of female managers told me they were finally starting to see change firefighters were thinking twice before making racist and sexist comments.

3 (46m 20s):
Everybody's more careful. Now people are really correcting each other's still things happen and people make make jokes like that, but someone will say hey what shot is something you could have said before in the old days nowadays, you can't do this anymore. Now all the improvements we've seen over the past few years if he leaves you can you can throw all that in the Amstel River? It's it's going to be back to square one these these angry white men have always been dominant. They always decided what went down

1 (46m 52s):
the city does a city does a mayor does she understand that this is now the situation

3 (46m 57s):
Well, I don't know about the mayor she's new but I hope she won't fire him. You know, if she does fire him just shake hands on it with us and say okay. We don't want people of color in the fire brigade. They would be fair way to go about it. Just say okay quit it. We only want white people because that's the message. They would give

1 (47m 22s):
the signal to you. Is she saying, I don't need any more people like you I don't need any more minorities

3 (47m 27s):
not just I don't need any more people. I don't need people like you anymore. This culture forms over a hundred years and it's really hard to try to get a foot in the door while people just want their old fire brigade back and they will resist any change, but that's reality.

1 (47m 47s):
I asked Lane to give me a gut check. Do you feel like your days are numbered?

3 (47m 57s):
Big size. Yeah, she would without an honorable men type of a platter

1 (48m 5s):
you want sodaro that I think we should talk about that maybe a different moment. It's it's not something that you really want to talk about right now.

3 (48m 15s):
No.

1 (48m 15s):
No, have you have you made a pitch to The Mayor about why you should

3 (48m 21s):
stay. Yeah dot ich denke.

1 (48m 27s):
I told her that the phase wherein now it takes about six years to break the habits. And so only after 6 years old to start thinking about unifying things and I think now the municipal organizations all about trying to find unification things, but I I think that's too soon. And so I told her you should just leave me here for another couple of years to do the breaking beat

3 (48m 54s):
Donald matter. If you do holidays, I'm in here.

1 (48m 57s):
What about what the mayor

3 (48m 58s):
say? I would not try to connect

1 (49m 4s):
she nodded the mayor declined many requests for an interview. I wondered if Lane was regretting his management style. If he was thinking he should have been more polder Maddow more diplomatic. Do you feel like there's something about the way you do things that perhaps contributed? So this is something that you may see in in retrospect. Like I should have done this differently or I should have approach this differently. I'm just curious. Yeah.

3 (49m 35s):
Yeah that retrospective going to see a DOT egg.

1 (49m 40s):
Sometimes I think maybe in retrospect I wanted results too

3 (49m 45s):
fast for honoring going to need a

1 (49m 48s):
flu but real cultural change really can't be forced or speed it up. So instead of creating more support you kind of get more resistance because Organization isn't ready to

3 (50m 1s):
change any chance. You don't need answer of rounding and on and on gog.com platform that you made

1 (50m 7s):
reflect. And so I was very black and white and I don't really regret it. But maybe I think now with more nuanced I would have opened it more to conversation instead of just resistance. Do you think a conversation would have helped?

3 (50m 24s):
No, that's his status does hit dilemma.

1 (50m 31s):
That's a dilemma. Karen Frazier is

3 (50m 34s):
oolong Billy

1 (50m 35s):
but honestly begs me to say that I also really didn't try I just went down and lay down the law and maybe if I tried and it would have been slightly different gone from but the question really is how long do you want it to take? Do you accept this kind of behavior to continue for another 20 years and I'm trying to change it sooner rather than later. So Lane I'm and started to thank you baby. This is me just being paranoid, but I'm starting to think that you're telling me that your days are numbered. Is that what you're telling me right? Now?

3 (51m 9s):
C'Mon eat shellfish.

1 (51m 11s):
I'm not allowed to speak about

3 (51m 13s):
this.

1 (51m 15s):
Blaine's last day is commander of the Amsterdam fire department is October 1st mayor hazama issued a press release recently announcing his departure and made it clear that she had forced him out. She says combating discrimination is still a top priority when the news came out firefighters at one station celebrated with cake a photo circulated on social media firefighters in front of a fire truck wearing party hats the Brotherhood had one one guy tweeted by by Kim myung's cop. The day lines departure was announced a firefighter parked a camper van at the station

3 (51m 60s):
Joanna kisses. She's normally a reporter for NPR's daily news programs.

1 (52m 5s):
You said to me that I'm a

3 (52m 7s):
stranger. I heard you say that you don't know me anymore. And that's a war that we fight. It has no winners. Anyway, so today I'll be on my way. I've two Mom. Hey Mom, Mom, Mom. Hey, Mom, Mom, Mom. So we have time to show today for just one more quick story about somebody deciding that the only way forward is to rip something down and rebuild from the ground up on a baker tells what happened.

1 (52m 47s):
Here's a typical day from when Katie Dyer was 15 growing up outside Detroit. She gets home from school and our chore list was posted on the banister and I was really frustrated because it was longer than normal and there were chickens from where the sliding glass door had been left open. This happened all the time. Her mom loves chicken's and they got in the house here a chick there a chick everywhere. You know, there were chickens like perched on the couch there were chickens on, you know on the kitchen counter and on the dining room table. I mean they were just chickens everywhere and I looked up the stairs and she was you know sitting at the computer and I was just in that moment.

1 (53m 35s):
I was very frustrated. Because now I've got to heard the chickens outside complete all these chores. So I was just very irritated and at some point rather than going straight into my chores. I sat down to journal. Will you read me what you wrote? Yeah. So on this entry it says my mom never does anything but sit at the computer and play the stupid Sims Online anymore. That's what your mom was doing when she came home from school playing The Sims, you know the video game where you get a simulated family and a simulated house to live a simulated life today. She made me do all the real chores after school because she was busy doing fake ones on the Sims.

1 (54m 22s):
She brought home three fancy chickens today. Oh great more fucking Birds. Okay. Gotta go. Bye. Katie says her mom moved out of her bedroom and set up a futon in the computer room to sleep next to the game. She'd play crash on the futon play more Katie craved her attention. I remember I used to just sometimes go up to her little den area where her computer was set up and sometimes doing things just to like intentionally annoy her but like in kind of like a funny way, like I would take her headphones off and I would just like come up to her and sort of like Zur Burt her neck like raspberry her neck or like what can I do to get your attention Katie began to feel invisible?

1 (55m 8s):
Like I was just standing there like waving my arms over my head, which is hilarious because that's something The Sims would literally do when they wanted your attention. They'd put their arms over the head and wave them and Shout at you and whatever Sim language they speak sometimes Katie would catch glimpses of the world. Her mom was building in The Sims her mother played the guitar and piano had dinner parties. She also had a Sims Family named after her real husband and kids. Her sister and father look like they're Sims but not Katie in real life. Katie died her hair and dressed edgy. But I remember like the Sim that she had named after me had like this stupid almost bowl-cut looking brown hair and like always wore like these pencil skirts and like button ups and I remember thinking like that's not me at all.

1 (55m 59s):
Is that who you wish I was she tried everything she could think of to coax her mom off The Sims she tried to reason with her joke with her bargain with her. Finally Katie reached a breaking point one night. She sat down at the computer and opened her mom's Sims World with her literally sleeping on the futon just like five feet away from me was like well I'm doing this the first thing I did was so there was a cheat code. I think it's like a semicolon and an explanation point over and over you put it in and you can get like it was a lot of money.

1 (56m 47s):
I got enough money that I could buy multiple stoves. Mostly. Another thing that I did. I remember is you could buy like, I think it was like a, you know, those oversized teddy bears people give you could buy like these giant oversized bears and put them near like the fireplace and stuff like that. And so and so I removed like the fire extinguishers in the smoke detectors and stuff and I remember walking the Sam. She had named after me out to the yard and deleting the door behind me that went out to the front yard and just waiting her dad and sister Sam go to the stoves and start cooking soon a kitchen and a living room fire break out the Sparks hit the teddy bears game on and the seams are just running around screaming with their hands in the air and like and they really scream right?

1 (57m 49s):
Yes, they scream in like whatever that weird Sim languages and you do it. That's just it's just it's just like that. It's just gibberish and I'm laughing so hard like, I remember at some point thinking like I'm gonna pee my pants and I'm trying so hard to like not laugh out loud because she's sleeping right behind me there were firemen, but they'd only come if you told your sim to call them. I burned her Sim house and family alive. Yeah, eventually the fire stops the Katie character stands in the yard, her mom father and sister are dead.

1 (58m 37s):
When a Sim dies this little earn appears in its place. I went back in the house and you could pick up the little urns and I picked up the little urns and just sort of placed them like near each other in like new. Well, I'm going to be in a lot of trouble tomorrow. Because Katie was the only Sim left it was going to be pretty clear who done all this. I got up the next morning to leave for school. And I remember as I was leaving. She was just sort of starting to get logged into her game and stuff when I got home.

1 (59m 18s):
She yelled at me to come up the stairs. I came up the stairs and she paused her Sim game that she had been rebuilding to turn around and yell at me and she was like you owe me an apology that was weeks of my life and it still felt like a small victory I guess because it was one of the first times in a while that she had to step away from that life to engage her real life. She wrote in her journal grounded figures, but it was funny. I have to do all the housework now so she can rebuild I do all of it.

1 (59m 58s):
Anyway, so whatever dad thinks we'll go to jail someday, at least in jail. They don't make you get up at 6 a.m. To feed chickens.

3 (1h 0m 18s):
The baker is one of the producers of our show Katie Dyer is done. No jail time. She's a bus driver in mom and Knoxville a version of History originally appeared on board. If I'd you can get their podcast where we get your podcast or at get mortified.com.

1 (1h 0m 35s):
Look about you

3 (1h 0m 59s):
forgot my speech today by Nikki Meek helping Maddie Raymond people put a show together. They include him out of one me on a baker. Susan Burton been Calhoun's or a Chase Whitney Dangerfield nail drumming demand grave Michelle Harris Jessica. Lessin hopster Nelson, Catherine Romano Robbins seminar was ship Julie Snyder Billy Sullivan, Christopher sutala, and Matt Tierney managing editors, Diane whoo, our executive editors David kestenbaum. Our interpreters for today's show. Stephanie fund a barrel Joost van egmond and Wayne Ado who wrote the voice actors. You heard nikhil Parker Michael, even on and yada goes here. They just say these things are so hard to pronounce with the special Thanksgiving to hand it over to our interpreter. Wanted to quote. Who by the way is not Dutch. She is Belgian Alana

1 (1h 1m 39s):
special. Thanks today to Hakata option hung up on the roof. Is he that a kornfeld Yost gumpa and you closer mom come on Reagan and caitria Hassan bahara. Blatant copes hands from Felder Dimitri's angelides. Toby Sterling

3 (1h 1m 56s):
both on-screen and Christopher Miller. Thank you. I know our website this American life.org This American Life is to give the public radio stations by PRX the public radio exchange for this marking life comes from the Lagunitas Brewing Company feeling stories and songs with Lagunitas IPA. And of course Madiba the pub in public radio find out more won't you? I like you need us.com. Thanks as always to our programs co-founder mystery Melody, you know,

1 (1h 2m 23s):
he's like a marriage expert

3 (1h 2m 25s):
everyone on staff goes to him for advice all the time. I'm 29 years with my wife, you know, if I focus on all the bad things that I said about her then we Never get married. I'm Ira Glass back next week with more stories of This American

1 (1h 2m 39s):
Life. I saw no no. Hell no.

3 (1h 2m 59s):
Next we're going to podcast of this American. I've a story about doubt and three people who let those doubts spread and gain momentum and convince officials and convince the whole community. And finally those dad's turn into a kind of fact, we running this investigation that we did with The Marshall Project and propublica that went on to win a Peabody Award and also a Pulitzer Prize and now is the basis of the new Netflix series unbelievable. That's next week on the podcast or in your local public radio station.