1 (1s):
Support for This American

3 (2s):
Life comes from the Capital One Saver Card earn four percent cash back on dining and entertainment 2% at grocery stores and one percent on all other purchases. Now when you go out you cash in Capital One what's in your wallet terms apply and from State Farm

1 (22s):
The Helpful Folks at State Farm are there for you on those days when it feels like problems just pop out

3 (28s):
of nowhere

1 (29s):
for auto and home insurance. It's State Farm agents are ready to help find one at

3 (34s):
statefarm.com. From WBZ Chicago, it's This American Life. I'm Neil drumming sitting in fiberglass. Every so often I'll be talking to another black person usually someone with an accent and they'll stop mid conversation and asked me where my family's from or if I'm from the islands and I'll say something like I'm not sure I think I'm West Indian on my dad's side. I've said this a hundred times without any actual proof. I don't know where I got it from and there's no evidence that I can find. I asked my Dad recently and he wasn't sure he said maybe going back Generations someone stopped at some Island between Africa and South Carolina. My cousin Yvonne them. Her dad was definitely born in Panama a few years back.

3 (1m 17s):
She invited me to come stand on the road with her and watch the big party Caribbean people throw here in New York every year the West Indian Day Parade. Technically the West Indian American Day Parade. I still remember how excited she got when a group of panamanians came marching down eaten Parkway. My cousin is tall over 6 feet and loud and she really made a show of jumping and shouting and waving her flag. I envied her in that moment. This is uncomfortable for me to say but I've sometimes felt a sense of vagueness. Just being black in America. That's the thing about the West Indian Day Parade. There's all these black people who seem to know exactly specifically where they're from. And on this one day. They tell everyone like this guy, for example, it's not just where he's from but it's how he says it.

3 (2m 3s):
Will you from Jamaica live in this neighborhood? No, I'm gonna live in this new I'm living at the Bronx. Okay, so you came all the way down here. Yes mon big O'Neill would bring up why please we've got to work in his friend came down from the Bronx and had been partying nearby. I ran into them on Eastern Parkway early that morning. During the parade hadn't even started yet, but they were already wrapping the country Jamaicans controller controller Parkway,

1 (2m 23s):
and I don't know why I go on like say Jamaican our own things, but we have the best artists. We have the best food. We have the best culture.

3 (2m 30s):
We have the best natural.

1 (2m 31s):
Mm2 when I first met

3 (2m 33s):
these guys, they don't even talk like this all the time.

1 (2m 36s):
So later on around 10 o'clock. The parade will actually start that's you know, the big big thing you'll see a lot more people flooding the streets

3 (2m 44s):
a few years ago. I moved just a few blocks from the parade route on Easton. Kwai the broad Treeline Corridor the passes through the neighborhood of Crown Heights. The parade is actually part of a week-long celebration in Brooklyn called the Labor Day carnival which is itself just the New York version of Carnival which is celebrated all over the Caribbean and the world most days Crown Heights feels a lot like other neighborhoods. I've lived in corner Bodega here liquor store their gentrification creeping in but one weekend every year I wake up to reggae and Sokka and feathers and floats and people waving flags from all over just barely anywhere to stand there's guys on stilts and there are police everywhere. It feels like the neighborhood's been completely transformed.

3 (3m 25s):
But of course, that's not what's actually happening. It's more like the neighborhood is turning inside out letting you see what's at its core. So many of the people who make their homes in Crown Heights also carry pieces of another Homeland with them the Bahamas Grenada Jamaica Barbados, St. Lucia Trinidad every year anywhere between one and two million people show up. It's pretty thrilling just to stand on the sidelines and watch it all passed by you, you know like a parade, but I wanted to live inside it more to understand as best. I can how my cousin felt that day to know what it means to have a flag to wave. So that's what we're doing this our a bunch of us went out that weekend Doven head first.

3 (4m 6s):
Some of us even got pretty wet. Stay with us.

1 (4m 16s):
See you guys

3 (4m 17s):
the typical image New Yorkers have of the West Indian Day parade is of thousands of people dancing down Eastern Parkway in elaborate costumes that are as colorful as they are skimpy feathered headdresses winged backpacks Tiaras and Jewel bikinis. I learned that this is called playing mass. The mass is short for masquerade my co-producer Jessica and I went out really early on Labor Day. I met up with some masqueraders who were dressed in costumes that they had chosen from a selection of different movie themes like The Little Mermaid Coming to America and Showgirls just to say the outfits were only marginally related to the film's it was more about color palette than anything one woman were a plume of black and yellow feathers evoking Quentin Tarantino's most famous heroine.

1 (4m 60s):
So explain your costume. Which costume is this. This is Kill Bill. I regret these big feathers. I don't know where I'm going with this but uh, this is Kill Bill and why do you regret them? Because the street view girl I'm gonna need you put on a costume and try to walk down the parkway with big. Is on it was a bad mistake feathers coming out of this some Stones came on. What's the experience of putting on an outfit like this and coming? Hell it took me 2 hours and a lot of people breaking down already. We never hit the parkway. We just know if you're going to do it just carry a lot of crazy. Not a lot but carry some crazy glue issue. You gonna be putting yourself together once you get out here, what made you decide on?

1 (5m 40s):
Kelvil? To be honest with you. I'm chubby. So Kill Bill had a monokini and I liked it. So I went with that and I need a two-piece. We ain't friends right now and we hit the gym, so he'll build it was

3 (5m 58s):
for many people playing mass starts even earlier than the parade at the parade before the parade. It's called Juve and it's a celebration with deep deep roots in the Caribbean Chavez. Mythology is populated with outlandish characters like the menacing. Robber with his wide-brimmed hat the insanely voluptuous Dame Lorraine and the many Devils writer Armani Brown grew up with you Fay, but she didn't actually start going until she got to Brooklyn her story starts over 2,000 miles away

1 (6m 27s):
in Trinidad Carnival is so big that you study it in school the year. I turned 10. We were given an assignment to pick one of the traditional Carnival masks characters. We just learned about create a costume and put on a performance in front. Aunt of the rest of the school Picking my character was a struggle but in the end I settled on the job malossi. Sometimes called the Blue Devil in Trinidad. I picked it mostly because I knew the costume would be one of the easiest to make and time was running out. I cut holes into an old pair of shorts and a thin t-shirt. I fashioned horns from paper towel rolls and loot strips of paper into a chain that I could wrap around my body a pitchfork.

1 (7m 11s):
I fabricated from tree branches from my backyard completed the look. On the day of the performance. I changed into my costume in the classroom smeared myself all over with blue paint and then headed to his the auditorium. I was the kind of child who avoided attention and everything in me was fighting the idea of being on stage when I stepped out alone in front of the whole school. My heart was racing my teacher told us that the job malossi was a demon that terrorizes a creature barely kept on its leash. So on the stage that day I might have crouched or jumped or hist or bared my teeth that the crowd I'm not sure. I just remember my anxiety wasn't painful anymore.

1 (7m 54s):
It was exhilarating. I felt Wicked and nasty and playful and tricky so completely out of character and still so utterly myself deeply inside my body and yet somehow floating above it when it's good. That's what it feels like to play mask. For a long time Masten really feel like mine. I grew up in Trinidad, but my father and mother are from Jamaica and Guyana respectively Carnival and those places simply does not compare to the space. The festival takes up in Trinidad where Carnival is King and its influence swirls year-round.

1 (8m 37s):
Everyone. My mother would say laughing is shaking her head everyone from the biggest partyer to the most religious church mouse is out on the road come Monday. My family didn't go to church regularly, but there was no way my parents were going to let me participate in carnival proper as a teenager. That was for grown people. When I left Trinidad for college in the states the loneliness took me by surprise. I was 18 and homesickness was a physical and nearly constant ache. It was then that I played Juve for the first time at brooklands Labor Day Parade there. I finally felt at home again.

1 (9m 17s):
And in the year since the parade has become a spiritual practice juice. I always begins in the dark. This year climbing up and out of the subway our Grand Army Plaza the sky isn't quite pitch black, but it's closed against the glare of police floodlights. I can just make out a stream of people trickling down the road in clumps my friends and I joined the stream moving towards the NYPD metal barriers that narrow into a checkpoint. We are patted down and our bags opened Juve is derived from the French Creole word for Daybreak.

1 (9m 57s):
And traditionally Brooklyn starts at around 4 a.m. And a not too long after the sun rises. But this year the Rising Sun is what marks the beginning of the parade at 6 a.m. The parade is starting much later than usual. The reason given is that it will help curb the violence that many have come to associate with the event in 2015 a young lawyer in Governor. Andrew Cuomo's Administration. Carey gabay was hit and killed by a stray bullet along the Route. The next year it was reported that four people were shot at the parade two of whom died. Here's what's rarely mentioned in those news reports the violence that black people experience in these long neglected.

1 (10m 40s):
Neighborhoods is year-round. It doesn't end when the cameras leave the parade and in some cases the incidents that the media have connected to the parade happen away from the Parade's actual route. The news coverage Juve typically receives is frustrating but not surprising no matter what parts of the globe you're from. You know that this is part of what it means to be black the things you do to secure a joy for yourself in a world that would rather see you dead become the way the world then rationalizes you're suffering for the media for everyone outside of our community. The story of the parade is the story of the violence. This is why it feels impossible to smile back when the office of checking our Eggs grins is if we're sharing an inside joke and comments just need to make sure you don't have a gun before letting us through.

1 (11m 33s):
Once we're past the checkpoint the crowd thickens, it's clear that for some people the morning is just beginning and that for others a long night of partying is simply stretching itself a little bit longer. Everyone is drifting chipping down the street and no real hurry. No one is wearing anything. They wouldn't mind sacrificing to the Juve Gods old tanks and short shorts ratty t-shirts and strappy dress has that ride up the thigh flags are everywhere tied around. Waist worn as capes the red green and gold a grenade is flag in particular can be seen near and far the closer we get to the front of the route the more clearly we can hear the sound of whistles and conchs up the road the tinny sound of somebody beating out a rhythm on a small metal pan is drawing briefly by the heavy beat of a cowbell both are swallowed up by the sound of the steel pan band warming up.

1 (12m 34s):
And the devils are out the Grenadian job jobs are covered from head to toe and Slick Black oil the whites of their eyes and teeth seem to jump out of their skin locks and wigs and braids are wrapped up tightly in plastic bags sacrifice. Their old clothes is one thing but get him oil and powder out of a new sewing is quite another the devil's wear hard hats and helmets crowned with black horns. I narrowly avoid getting hit by one of the many I've been cards many of the devils are pushing down the road most of them full of plastic bags and buckets and in some cases other passed out devils. The smell of grease and smoke Rose heavier too young Devils spot my friends and me and loudly Proclaim that we're to clean.

1 (13m 22s):
One of the devil's dips his hands into a bucket of oil and the other beckons us closer. He smiles wide and it's both a dare and a promise an invitation and a threat we shake our heads but we're all laughing as he walks up to us and starts rubbing us down with the oil anyway. You don't come to Juve if you're not prepared to get dirty. Do you Harvin's pulling along the Rhythm Section and steel pan bands who are now in full swing start inching down the road a woman climbs on top of the bumper of a van whining her waist slowly and a smooth Rippling motion that extends from her shoulders down to her legs.

1 (14m 6s):
A man hoist himself up behind her and she picks up the pace. We flagged down a young woman selling nutcrackers. Sweet drinks makes heavily with rum and vodka despite reports of a crack down on the sale of these drinks. She asked as she can take a picture of us that she then posts on her Instagram to promote her business. We all giggle like we've known each other for years as we pose. Trying to Mark the moment the parade slides from Darkness into daylight is like trying to track the ripening of a mango. It happens slowly and then all at once suddenly I'm squinting into the Sun and everything that felt clear in the night looks and feels strange to be now.

1 (14m 52s):
This is a part of it to within this space. What is real and what is a hallucination? Moko jumbies sure-footed performance on 6-foot stilts drift by like clouds without looking down three Devils covered in white paint are on the roof of a nearby building whining and waving a huge Trinidad flag over the crowd as if claiming territory. How did they get up there? I have no idea but somehow in the moment, there's nothing that doesn't make sense. Juve began as a way to celebrate surviving the most brutal aspects of slavery in Juve you can see out of the eyes of the demons that once drove you with the whip.

1 (15m 39s):
You can embody the worst thing that ever hurt you and come out the other side invincible. When our people were enslaved they were driven into burning cane fields to harvest the land those that survived came out covered in soot and Ash the hard to phi's imagination, but at every turn we have been taught that we are weak that we are cowards that we are less than human. So we played Juve to remember that no one has the power to make monsters of us, but ourselves we played Juve and in that time we I'm more fearsome than anything that could ever terrorize us in a world that asks us to be quieter to do less to accept the worst of everything and to pretend to like it Juve becomes the altar where we can finally fall to our knees and worship ourselves.

1 (16m 36s):
I am to nutcrackers in when the brass of the Rhythm Section really gets going something deep and sweet fills me this year has been harder than most. I haven't had the money for a plane ticket and it's been over a year since I was in my backyard pressing my feet into the grass watching the sunset feeling the wetness of the air hug my body. There is a person I am when I'm home and I miss her desperately. Now a current runs through my chest my belly my legs. I am not home, but I am home. I'm home. I swing my hips and roll my waist and slow dance.

1 (17m 18s):
And for a moment feel the way I did when I was 10 jumping back and forth between fear and exhilaration getting low to the ground feeling something like honor and pride start to crack my chest open.

3 (17m 37s):
Molly Brown is a Jamaican writer and poet whose work focuses on Race gender and Caribbean folklore. She lives in Brooklyn pretty much all summer. If you're walking around certain parts of Brooklyn, you can hear the sound of steel drums late into the night, but you never really see them. I always wonder where the steel drums coming from because when the parade comes along it's all flat. Trucks loaded with DJ equipment and booming speakers. What was all that steel drumming? I heard as it turns out part of Labor Day carnival is a whole steel drum competition. It's called Panorama. Those mysterious tropical sounds in the night.

3 (18m 18s):
Those are steel drum orchestras practicing sometimes a hundred people all playing together.

1 (18m 23s):
You know, when I say to people I practice every night like they'll say well can you do this? And I know I have practice you practice every night. I'm like, yeah. I say I practice every night. I remember my family even members of our family like you're going to practice. Yes. We're going to practice is what we do.

3 (18m 38s):
That's Angie and her daughter Jonah. This is the thing they do together every year all summer long and they were really hoping their band would win this year. The competition was basically going to be the last thing they did together as Mom and teenage daughter as soon as it was over literally hours after it was over Jonah would get on a flight and leave home for her first year in college. I don't know anything about steel drums or pans as they're called, but we found a reporter Marlon Bishop who was also a musician and who loves this instrument. He followed Angie and Jonah as they prepared and one of our producers Nadia Raymond went with them to the competition the band NG and Jonah play in is called R Otto's the name comes from this famous band in Trinidad called Desperados.

3 (19m 22s):
The u.s. Branch of it was called Des purrs, but then there was a rebellion in the ranks and the band split. It was like a divorce the Those were like you want to be desperate fine. We'll be right us that was years ago though, and it's all good now well kind of their Rivals friendly Rivals. We don't want them to

1 (19m 41s):
win. Not necessarily. We don't want them to win. We want to win on our own. No. No, we don't want I don't want them to win. Yeah, right. You don't want them to us. We want to win that. Yeah. No, no. No, I'm gonna say I really like you can want to win all you like like I don't want just anyone to win I won't rattles to

3 (20m 4s):
it. They're banned Grottoes has a reputation for being a Vibes band maybe not as tight as some other groups but compensating with Spirit on the stage. They play loud and bold it for a while rados did win three years in a row, but then last year Des pers,

1 (20m 28s):
that was one last year. Very troubling I was so sad. We work so hard.

3 (20m 39s):
I first met Angie and Jonah at the Big Lot where the band practices it's in an industrial part of Brooklyn next to a bus depot, you know less neighbors to complain about the noise. John is trying to nail down a section in the music that's been giving her

1 (20m 54s):
trouble. What's this pan called This is a quadruped. I'm sorry. What's he asking? You Yaks both of us. This is a Quadro fan.

3 (21m 16s):
That's a really hard one. Right?

1 (21m 17s):
It's very hard. Yeah, but it's fun. It's really exciting to play.

3 (21m 23s):
This yard is like their second home Angie the mom left Grenada when she was three years old grew up in Queens when I told my mother I was going to play pan.

1 (21m 32s):
She looked at me and she shook her head and she said

3 (21m 34s):
you are. Bane of my existence just like that looks like it's not that deep. I'm going to play some

1 (21m 40s):
music but it's but it's male-dominated. It's just music

3 (21m 46s):
women didn't really play pan back in the day. They do now though and he played pregnant with Jonah and after Jonah was born as a baby. She dried on Angie's back as

1 (21m 56s):
she practiced

3 (21m 57s):
Jonah started playing in the band when she was 8 years old played every year since she loves it so much so that in this last summer before she leaves for college. She's choosing to spend every night right here with her mom getting ready for the

1 (22m 10s):
competition

3 (22m 16s):
the way the Panorama competition Works each band plays in 8 to 10 minute long incredibly complicated arrangement of a popular Soca song. The arrangements are filled with crazy runs and breakdowns which in a kind of calypso arms race get more and more virtuosic every year. Everyone will tell you the key to winning this thing. It's having a good arranger the person who comes up with all the parts most bands use local arrangers from Brooklyn, but Rod owes hires a ringer from Trinidad guy named BJ. Normally they'll bring up BJ for the whole summer to teach the song but this time there's a problem. He had trouble getting a Visa. So he's been teaching over the phone every night.

3 (22m 57s):
Someone gets their cell phone with a cable and they connected to this giant speaker that everyone gathers around. BJ teaches the music by calling out the notes one by one through the phone which is other guy called the Drill Master then repeat to the rest of the orchestra. Have fun. BJ has to teach every note of a 10-minute song. That's way and there's not just one part. It's in a hundred person Orchestra with different sections that play different notes and rhythms. No sheet music involved.

3 (23m 38s):
This is music learned entirely by year. The yard feels like an extended. Ended family Barbecue that happens every single night. There's a makeshift bar in the back that serves beer and food. That's where all the good gossip happens. Overall. It's about half players and have people who are just there to hang out lots of kids running around significant others of band members plus a contingent of old guys smoking weed in the back people said, it feels kind of like being back home in the Caribbean. During breaks Jonah hangs out with her best friend Z and some of the other girls her age and a set of wooden bleachers.

3 (24m 20s):
I noticed that one point there are talking about neighborhoods and Trinidad and they don't say my family lives in such and such a place. They say I live there you guys all live in Brooklyn

1 (24m 38s):
you're talking about Trinidad. Yes. It's where we grew up that oh. I think that we grew up in some of these I like when we talk about turning that fake-ass access because we wasn't born that we just turn it on my mommy like you swear you tonight. He's

3 (24m 54s):
the high school Jonah just graduated from there weren't a lot of West Indian kids there.

1 (24m 59s):
I don't talk to my friends about Pat and that like at all because I don't think there's a good enough way for me to explain it without people thinking I'm crazy. Like I'm so serious. I mean, I can't explain to them that I'm standing. Adding up for like hours a night just like playing music and coming home at three o'clock in the calving to wake up the next day. I can't explain like all like the riffraff that happens. I wreck I can't with that their fights as an example. It's a family and it has arguments to me. It's like I keep on saying is like the epicenter of forgiveness because you can do anything and you could literally do anything and then come back cool off for a year and a half or so and then come back and people be like, oh hi.

3 (25m 45s):
They're alluding to something specific here one year. One of the rod has players got into a beef brought a gun into another pan yard. So when ended up getting shot it was a bad time. Angie said the guy went to jail, but when he got out, he came back to the band and people said,

1 (26m 3s):
okay. It's a place of redemption you belong to us, right and we belong in the same environment and we know how to make peace with one another. That's not something you see all the time. That's not something you see all the time.

3 (26m 24s):
I come back a few weeks later and BJ the ringer the arranger from Trinidad his Visa has finally been sorted out. He's here in person. Bravo you can feel the change of energy in the yard. There's way more players in the music is starting to sound really good. As I'm recording the band the guy calls me over tells me in no uncertain terms that I am not to share the recordings with any rival bands.

1 (27m 10s):
Ladies and gentlemen, this is a competition and therefore we must have judges our church is this evening? Are

3 (27m 19s):
this finally the night of Panorama Labor Day weekend my colleague. Nadia Raymond was there for that. She's going to take it from

1 (27m 27s):
here. The competition takes place in the parking lot of the Brooklyn Museum. The streets are blocked off. There's tons of you Halls filled with drums and racks tons of people setting up pans rolling them about it's like being backstage when I get there an hour before Showtime. Angie is Dashing from place to place setting up drums making sure people have their shirts throttles are all wearing t-shirts that say hooking me on them. That's the song they're playing. Oh also, Is getting people rides who are supposed to be here, but aren't are you ready now? Okay get up here. So as soon as you can because they want you to start hooking up the drums. Tell me the address of the place. I'll send you a car. She sees Jonah walking toward us in the distance.

1 (28m 9s):
She can tell just from her walk ratoce is going to play second, which is stressing Angie out you want to play last that way the judges. Remember you most of the bands that are going first are pretty set up starting to run through their songs carrados is Still not ready still not practicing disperses Jonah seems not concerned like at all. Really. She's not stop talking about it. That's busy with a the one who won last year. That's them right now. That's like you're right. They just won last year's nothing special. I like everything like you're like no, I don't care. No, it's not that I don't care, but they just won once. It does a first time they wanted a really long time was I think the last time they won was like in the 90s or something like that.

1 (28m 53s):
So it's a big deal for them. But other than that, they're not a rival very politely. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah and then special finally everyone shows up and they run through their song a few times in practice and then for real ladies and gents on seeds. We have fans number two. They are Dorados. The roll up on stage. There's about a hundred of them. They've built out a float that looks like a tin spaceship Pina. It's even hard to tell it's a spaceship. But Angie says it is I have to say to me standing in the front few rows of the audience with my untrained ears the sound a little rushed in mess.

1 (29m 48s):
It's honestly hard to tell as they play more though. They get a little more sure-footed. It takes nearly an hour to get each band on and off the stage. When Des purrs comes on hours later, they look like professionals definitely were polished. Their band leader has this confidence in a little bravado as if they've already won.

1 (30m 34s):
And he's not feeling good about this and as the night goes on she goes through a kind of pre-emptive expedited greeting process here. She is an hour later depression My grandmother used to say kingdoms rise and fall all the time. And so I wonder if the kingdom is falling it's hard. It's hard to know. And around 11:00 when we're getting closer to the end acceptance. You're not gonna win this bet. You're like we're not going to win. I don't see that happening. The Riders rain could be over things change people move on. Jonah is about to move on the people from different bands. Keep coming over to Angie to say.

1 (31m 15s):
Hello. She honestly seems to know everybody here it combats. The anonymity of America like America is just one. One big place that you could be lost in and we come from small places. Right? And this is as you know, what's in you say I kind of catch ass place people don't have the kind of luxury of time as they do in the Caribbean, but they figure out a way to be together and this is just another way to figure out how to be together how to be together the way we are How to be together the way we are Angie says when she was little she couldn't stand Labor Day carnival. She's get tired and want to go home and her dad would always try and linger stretch it out a little longer now she gets it there's a homesickness even in Angie's case if it's for a place where she hasn't really lived.

1 (32m 22s):
It's now past midnight or 1 a.m. Honestly, I don't remember but it's the moment they've been waiting for they're about to announce the winners everyone gathers closer and closer to the stage the announcer starts with the last place band. Facing seven Crossfire. This is all good news. It means rattles hasn't lost yet in sixth place Philly pan-starrs. The crowd does not like that. So I'm just reading what you see. Okay fifth place kasim at this point each time the announcer doesn't Serratos and he lets out an involuntary scream.

1 (33m 14s):
- was USC disperse their rival took fourth. Okay, so now my hands are shaking placing second with a score of 4 5 8 and the winner for 5-9 placing second ad lib.

1 (33m 56s):
So that's it rattles won by a single point 4:59 to 458 come and she says she grabs my hand and drags me on stage. We are running up this ramp tons of people pushing through someone loses a shoe but keeps going there screaming dancing tons of hugs and in the middle of the stage. She sees her daughter surrounded by her friends in a few hours. She'll be on that plane to college in California. I'm so so like now but then we also want the person saying I don't want you to leave.

1 (34m 44s):
That's Jonah's bestie from the pan yard Z Jonah looks at her and starts to cry. She told me later that she's known zzz and she was 10 that every year days after panoramas over did keep going to the pan yard anyway and hanging out until it got too cold to do it. And so this moment standing on Age looking at her friends. That was when it really hit her this part of her life with her mom and these friends in this world. It's over.

3 (35m 17s):
I'm

1 (35m 17s):
not leaving that's impossible to do

3 (35m 30s):
while in Bishop produces podcast for future Media Group, which makes Latino us say Nadia Raymond is one of the producers of our

1 (35m 37s):
show. Because it's

3 (35m 42s):
coming up. We're gonna need a mop in aisle seven that's in a minute from Chicago public radio when I program continues. Support for This American Life comes from Capital One with the Capital One Savor card. You can earn four percent cash back on dining and entertainment that means four percent on checking out that new French restaurant and 4% on bowling with your friends. You'll also earn 2% cash back at grocery stores and one percent on all other purchases. Now when you go out you cash in Capital One what's in your wallet terms apply.

1 (36m 21s):
And from State Farm

3 (36m 22s):
State Farm agents know that sometimes life throws everything at you at once like a fender bender when you're already late when it comes to auto and home insurance State Farm agents are ready to help.

1 (36m 34s):
You can talk to your State Farm agent via text over the phone in person or using the State

3 (36m 39s):
Farm app, which is super handy with voice-activated commands that let you see your bill get claim updates or call an agent and with more than 19,000 agents. There's one close. Close to you

1 (36m 51s):
find an agent at statefarm.com.

3 (36m 55s):
It's This American Life. I'm Neil drumming sitting in for Ira Glass. Today's Show. We come from small places stories from the West Indian American Day parade and the Labor Day carnival in Brooklyn, New York City. The neighborhood that the parade goes through includes another group of people that are unapologetically themselves. That's the Hasidic Jews on this day. You'll see many of them dressed up in a costume that's particular to their culture but unlike the mass players. They wear their uncolored full costumes year-round the long black coats and black hats and beards outfits that date back to 19th century Poland during the parade. They all seem to be rushing down the street like people on their way to an important appointment not looking at the festivities.

3 (37m 37s):
at all my coworker Ira Glass the regular host of this program was at the parade with us and try to talk to some hostages about this huge yearly event that takes place in their neighborhood walking up the hostages on the street felt like walking up to people from another planet people who had a general air of hostility or at least suspicion towards Outsiders like me the wave me off the best I got was from a young man who took pity on me and gave me mustard this non-committal quote about the parade

1 (38m 6s):
every person has Right to do what they want what they feel is right,

3 (38m 11s):
but I finally found one hostage would actually talk to me by marching myself over to 770 Eastern Parkway the worldwide headquarters of the Chabad movement. How bad is the biggest Hospital organization and 770 is such an important spiritual sight for them that a replica of the building at 770 Eastern Parkway was built in Jerusalem. Nearly a Brick by Brick copy with other replicas in cities around the world which include the number 7 70 on the building. The number has mystical significance meaning among other things depending on who you ask Bait moshiach House in the Messiah. The 770 is not just a three digit number on the door and the address at 7:00.

3 (38m 51s):
7:00 Eastern Parkway Brooklyn, New York. It is the house of our leader the leader of the entire human race the Chabad Lubavitch rebbe. I write the man telling me this is you who demand nausea Goldstein middle-aged fellow with a very kind. Ace while growing beard wire-rimmed glasses he's talking about the last great leader of the Chabad movement who died in 1994 has no successor Menachem Mendel schneerson, Tom like you who to believe schneerson was the Messiah Yoda spoke with me because he's taken it on himself to be a Shelia which is kind of Emissary or missionary spreading the word about God's laws what that meant was that when I strolled up to seven seventy he seemed just as glad for somebody to talk to is I was It's like he walked up to me like got it send us both out to talk to strangers on this day at the parade and now here we were admitted.

3 (39m 47s):
He'd put up a handmade sign across the parade route about the seven laws of Noah. He was kind of hoping that the sign would do a lot of the proselytizing for him today and it wouldn't have to engage too much with crowd due to the weakness of the of the eyes. I try to put signs over there to do my work for me because I see what's going on over here. It really triggers a lot of emotional prohibited like thoughts that you have to really not let played out get played have to guard your eyes and they say what do you mean? Well the distracting sexually explicit beautiful women.

3 (40m 27s):
They're very arousing provocative. Remember we standing on a street with literally hundreds of women in bikinis going by lots of bare skin. So the women on top of that float going by you're not supposed to even look at them. I plead the fifth man.

1 (40m 46s):
Where did occur to me? I didn't realize right to have a parade like this

3 (40m 49s):
right in the middle of the Hudson neighborhood right here in front of a 770. It's a challenge, right? And I had prayed about it last night and I was 50/50 with God because that was full-on wanting it and I was full on asking for help, too. Come and not send because I know my weaknesses. I'm very human and very masculine and when you see that very feminine, it's little more than a challenge to but when you got is a blessing you got his with you you can still manage to not send. What did you pray for pray that God would prevent me from sinning.

3 (41m 31s):
We've been you from looking even well. Yeah, I have to admit that I I ask that but obviously. Whatever. It's a it's a fight. I mean you seem to be quite not interested to look yourself you seem to be more interested in getting a story and talking and writing material for I have a job. I'm supposed to do. Yeah. Also, you know, I'm a secular person who's allowed to look at women walking by in a parade. God wants us to be holy you could've said he wants us to elevate our souls and really he said the right thing to do today would be to guard his eyes.

3 (42m 12s):
He admitted for always praying last night today a couple times. I was looking a little too long at some nice shapes. Mentally I have to work on that because It's not right, you know, and I even pointed as it as they walked by and some people caught me point is they all see that Jewish guy. He's even into the looking They're laughing at me. Look at that guy. Look at that Rabbi. He's hopping a look. You know, that was I admit it Yom Kippur is coming in 40 days. Yom Kippur the day of atonement when once a year through repentance prayer and charity Jews get the chance to make things right again with God for the moments we

1 (42m 55s):
strayed

3 (43m 2s):
Two blocks west of 770 the Box south of the parade route on Union Street as by the to Hasidic Boys in front of their apartment building with a cooler and handmade signs that read cookies for sale and ice pops for sale. And so how much are they

1 (43m 17s):
15 cents each. Have you sold many? Yeah, how many of you

3 (43m 22s):
sold to how long you been here

1 (43m 25s):
a half-hour? Okay. That's pretty good to 30 cents. What's your name? - Imani

3 (43m 35s):
little brothers clueless this one seven the other guys 12 the little one proceeds to tell me his name which later his older brother asked me not to put on the radio. They used to the parade every year.

1 (43m 47s):
They woke me up at 3:00 a.m. In the morning. It was a bunch of people with symbols and then just marching down that block. Do you like this kind of thing happens in the neighborhood

3 (43m 59s):
your brother shaking your head? No, you don't like it. No, how come

1 (44m 4s):
because very noisy and dangerous. What's the dangerous part? People are walking around crazy. Have you seen anything crazy? Yes,

3 (44m 15s):
they described to me some people yelling threatening each other a couple doors down from them about an hour before this on this ask for another example

1 (44m 22s):
people are walking around with knives and go.

3 (44m 26s):
Wait, have you seen knives and guns? You just hear?

1 (44m 31s):
Yes. I don't want to say it on the air. Do you want me to say what I had in my

3 (44m 37s):
pocket? So their brother explains? It's just because he's scared. What does he have in his pocket scissors? Yes. This is in your pocket because you're

1 (44m 45s):
scared in my pocket just in case anything

3 (44m 49s):
happens. He fetches them chose me to be crazy scissors are kids scissors like safety scissors like you use in second grade. What were you gonna do with the scissors?

1 (44m 60s):
If someone would come with a knife our told them look over there and grab the knife. And then stab them.

3 (45m 7s):
Your brother's laughing. You don't think that plan would work.

1 (45m 14s):
It would work

3 (45m 16s):
beside discussing how scary the parade sees them and the people in the parade when a bunch of women amble up to us.

1 (45m 23s):
Hey guys a picture because we were here. This was my old

3 (45m 34s):
room where the women that these boys live in the building. Maybe these guys live in your apartment.

1 (45m 39s):
I don't know what department do you guys live in that side, but we always take Manuel picture and we just need to do that. So hope you don't mind. So you guys used to live in the neighborhood. Yeah, would you move to all over however, and then you come back every year for the parade way. Yeah, and then we take a photo shoot here

3 (45m 59s):
line up in front of the door, but the building number above it the friend frames the shot in her phone. Hey guys. To do a boomerang and then the important business finished the chat. They explained to me that the names are danil and Charlene.

1 (46m 17s):
Yeah, this is our old block. That's so sweet hasn't changed much. Well with the new neighbors. Yeah, but they're still people across the street. That's still have the same house. My room used to be right there. Mommy's room Keisha's room my room then living room. This is a great building, you know, it's only seven apartments in this apartment building and they were so huge that Nice, that's nice. Can you remember

3 (46m 41s):
it was the 90s she turns to the 12 and 7 year old they're sitting there Stone silent and talks to the little one

1 (46m 49s):
math back. My little sister's math like was your age and she's like 40 something now and I'm 50 and then where the hostages in the neighborhood on the Block that back then we still live in a building with them. We have no problem with the Orthodox Jews never we play with them. There's great houses down there. We were friends with them never a problem never ever ever ever ever. Problem though with the docks ever.

3 (47m 11s):
They strove off the top of your toes me that one of them slipped him a dollar when I wasn't watching biggest sale of the day. There's ladies so nice New Yorkers can be so friendly. I know that's not stereotype of New Yorkers, but I find often the case little brother didn't even have to pull out a scissors

1 (47m 36s):
Ira Glass.

3 (47m 42s):
So the parade it involves an incredible number of feathers and this is kind of funny thing that I learned a lot of them come from this one shop on West 37th Street in the Garment District. So I want to leave Eastern Parkway for a minute and take you there. We visited a couple of weeks before the parade. It's like a candy store inside except the bins that line the walls are filled with different colors of feathers sequins and rhinestones. The owner is not from the West Indies. He's never been to Brooklyn Carnival. His name's high and he's originally from China and he showed my co-producer Jessica. Some of this year's costumes including an outfit with about a thousand rhinestones on into

1 (48m 19s):
it. I don't know is that clear or white or what a b a b what does that

3 (48m 23s):
mean Aurora Borealis color? These are all a b color stones.

1 (48m 29s):
What does that mean? What is it color changes based on the light.

3 (48m 33s):
There's a lot of colors in it. When I first opened his shop his main customers were figure skaters ballroom dancers and drag queens. He'd never heard of cargo then about 12 years ago a Trinidadian man walked into his shop and ask for 400 identical sequin appliqués turns out the guy was buying them for Carnival one of the big costume groups. You see March in the parade. They called Mass bands or mass camps again the mass for masquerade now has the go-to guy for Carnival feathers for so many bands not just here, but all over the Caribbean everyone knows hi one Trinidadian told us. While Jessica was in high shop, the leader of one of the biggest Mass camps in Brooklyn stopped by her name is Rochelle Maynard Richards.

3 (49m 17s):
She runs a camp called ramage a

1 (49m 19s):
will be leg pieces aren't pieces Rama Jay? Yeah, your stuff is here. Oh, wow. You guys are so lucky as the remedy bandleader. Yeah. She's pretty

3 (49m 36s):
eyes pulling bra tops out of big boxes and showing

1 (49m 38s):
Rochelle. What color? Is that like Sherbert or called coral Coral? That's exactly like the feathers for today. Uh-huh. You get the feathers for that one. All these are feathers. No. Yes, all these are the

3 (49m 54s):
official went off to pick out more ostrich plumes which are some of the most expensive feathers in the shop. It turns out that all these feathers are real high gets his ostrich plumes from farms in South Africa the turkey feathers mostly from Missouri, and there are also these really long Long striped pheasant tail feathers. Those are from farms in Vietnam and Cambodia each individual feather or peace cost $25 and sometimes you'll see individual

1 (50m 20s):
masqueraders having over 200 pieces in there on their backpack and just imagine how much money he spent on that one backpack. Yeah, but those are very Carnival, you know, they've they get this is what they

3 (50m 33s):
love and so they save up for that one costume right when the actual finished product walks down the parkway. Looking at almost a Year's worth of work by everyone from peacock farmers in Cambodia to the designers and Trinidad and the seamstresses in southern China to racial and her family and Canarsie. Her father actually hand glues feathers on to wire and bend them into headdresses and wings one other important thing that you should know about highs feathers. The people tell us that because they're real they're waterproof, which is fortunate because this year it started pouring down rain early Labor Day morning, Jessica, and I found maybe a hundred Masqueraders hiding out in a nearby Walgreens in the Cosmetics aisle.

3 (51m 14s):
I saw a woman posing for a picture like some odd Wings supermodel underneath the fluorescent lights. There was a long line to the bathroom women in sequent bikinis crowding into at a time, even though everyone's feathers were soaked through and drooping they were trying to stay in good spirits.

1 (51m 31s):
We are trying our feathers. I took my feathers off to dry. They're hanging up behind me in a bunch of school supplies. Yeah, I don't know. I just I guess I'm curious like does that does the fact that it's raining like the rain stopped on the parkway were here to pick up our culture. You know what I mean, like rain or shine tornado

3 (51m 60s):
eventually the rain stopped people put on their damp costumes and rejoined the parade. Mass players pay hundreds of dollars to join Mass bands for their money the masqueraders get a costume food and drink and a chance to dance behind a truck with an obscenely loud sound system the folks at ramage a they said the number of masqueraders has been dropping over the years. This is Darryl Cox. He designs costumes for ramage a he's wearing a jewel-encrusted ski mask at the time.

1 (52m 30s):
So there's a whole bunch of factors that play into park, but overall. I think it's just people may want to do different things with their Income they may not necessarily want to be half naked on the road for a couple hours. So

3 (52m 41s):
what Darryl means is they prefer to be half naked on the road for considerably more than a few hours. He says the mass play business is suffering because people feel like the city is getting more and more strict every year about when the parade is supposed to end. Everyone's supposed to be off the road by 6:00. So masqueraders are less inclined to pay a band like romesha for the experience like one of our biggest battle is why

1 (53m 2s):
should I spend $600 for a costume in New York when I can spend that on the flanks and Lucia. Oh go to Jamaica or go somewhere else and play Master

3 (53m 11s):
that's rachele the woman we met in the feather shop on 37. She found a drama she about a decade ago and turned it into the family business her father Played Madison Trinidad, and to this day still Spends months helping her make the band's lavish costumes by hand for a shell these days. Not enough people are willing to commit to the masquerade to the tradition of playing

1 (53m 32s):
Mass when you walk when you see now if you don't see much costumes anymore. You see a lot of t-shirts and just relax a lot of people don't get to witness the beauty of the Court the costumes anymore because they just see flags and rags and short pants and they don't see the beauty of a lot of the costumes anymore

3 (53m 50s):
within Caribbean culture not everyone is steeped in the same Traditions ratio was taught they celebrate. However, they can though there's one way of Cutting Loose that seems to be happening more and more and it drives rachele and her staff crazy when Rama Che rolls down the parkway speakers blasting. Some bystanders hop, the metal barriers and flood the band's ranks dancing and waving their Flags people call this storming some ass players. Welcome it like the more the merrier, but it doesn't look great the traditional Mass players and their feathers and jewels Jocelyn crowded by stormers and shorts and t-shirts and everyday street clothes. It's just messy and it can also be dangerous people get harassed even assaulted fights can break out the DJ is kept trying to separate the non-paying civilians from the costume players.

1 (54m 36s):
What make me for the Masquerade as please. We ask it all the people who not blame us to step to the right side far far right side of the truck,

3 (54m 45s):
please a

1 (54m 46s):
big space for Dimas

3 (54m 47s):
Caritas and ladies. Anybody stop whining with The Outsiders are in charge and they take now

1 (54m 52s):
stop whining on the outside US. Okay,

3 (54m 56s):
they made this announcement over and over without much impact in the band security got pretty fed up trying to

1 (55m 1s):
enforce it.

3 (55m 17s):
We shall has had enough. She recently decided that this would be Rama Jays last year in playing mass in New York City and the stormers are why she's calling it quits romesha will continue to play math. But Rochelle would rather fly her staff to Miami where she feels more people Embrace Carnival as she knows it. It's big news again. As Darrell ramage's

1 (55m 37s):
designer. There's a lot of sadness. I haven't really even been dancing because it's almost like I missed this but I don't miss it. Everyone seems to be happy and I think it's finally going to hit them when we cross that stage one last time that's not going to happen. Again.

3 (55m 55s):
It's easy to think of a parade as something unchanging something that passes through the same place at the same time every year the carnival is this living thing that goes anywhere, it's welcome. Hang up pieces here and there and dropping them off along the way. Just as long as he is reaching the end of the parade route the sky cracks open again drenching the procession and steady Sheets of Rain plenty of people flee through the barriers for the safety of open Subway entrances or storefront awnings. But a lot of people stay and then something kind of magical happens Brahma Jays DJ's crank up the

1 (56m 33s):
music

3 (56m 39s):
they eat the mass bands and chance of wet it up and the people want water almost as if they were taunting the clouds during the rain to fall the masqueraders already soggy from earlier collectively decide what the hell and start to jump up in unison harder and more exuberantly than they have all day as they crossed the Finish Line. The band is as presentable as Can be under the circumstances and it's just like Dow predicted there's lots of people crying Rochelle her family her security and the people have been playing Mass with ramage a for years.

3 (57m 20s):
They passed by a panel of Judges who are supposed to be scoring the one presentation, but honestly the judging seems like it's beside the point by now. Everyone just seems happy to have spent all this time together and they just want to keep whining and

1 (57m 34s):
rocking. everybody's wrong

3 (58m 14s):
our show was pictures today by myself and Jessica lessin know the people who work on the show include the matter when met on the baker Emanuel Barry Susan Burton Ben Calhoun. So we Chase in a Chivas Sean Cole Whitney Dangerfield calorie Elkins, Ira Glass Damien grave who shall Harris Hannah Jaffe Walt Seth blind leading the seats. He's still Nelson Catherine Raymondo Nadia Raymond, Tracy Rowling Brian Reed rather than Simeon Christopher's Potala Mattoon. Nancy update a managing editor is Diane. Whoo, our executive editor is David Festival special. Thanks today to the West Indian American Day carnival Association for providing audio of the steel pan competition. Also to Yvonne US Forest and a gorgeous Lynette Joseph Brown Aaron Edwards Doreen st.

3 (58m 57s):
Felix Gabrielle A Smith, Nico Osborne, Angela Howard Jonah Ennis Junior man, Samuel Tom Waddell Cohen, and the rest of the Dorado steel Orchestra Garth green Stacy Gardner from Toronto International. Kenneth Antoine of Antoine International and Stacy and Chin our website this American life dot-org support for This American Life comes from the Lagunitas Brewing Company fueling stories and songs with Lagunitas IPA and committed to keeping the pub in public radio find out more at Lagunitas.com. Thanks as always to our show's host Ira Glass. You know, the last time I ran I went out for KFC he got heartburn like I've never seen I felt really bad

1 (59m 37s):
me and a two-piece. We ain't friends right now.

3 (59m 39s):
I'm Neil drumming. Ira Glass will be back next week with more stories of This American

1 (59m 44s):
Life. Next week on the podcast of This American Life

3 (1h 0m 6s):
Catherines packing your knapsack. Take to a protest in Hong Kong. She brings water first

1 (1h 0m 11s):
aid kit and I bring makeup so that I can transform myself after the protest. It looks like you're not going to protest because girls were going to protest and barely do makeup.

3 (1h 0m 23s):
What's it like really to protest for months and knowing China probably won't give them what they want. Why keep protesting next week on the podcast when you work a public radio station