2 (1s):
Support for This American Life comes from Squarespace make your website your own with the ability to customize the look and feel settings products and more for a free trial of your new website. Visit. Squarespace.com American and enter American Squarespace. Think it dream it make it. And from the Capital One Saver Card, earn four percent cash back on dining and entertainment 2% at grocery stores and one percent on all other purchases. Now when you go out you cash in Capital One what's in your wallet terms apply?

2 (41s):
It's nearly 2:00 in the afternoon when we reach Catherine's family's apartment and she's just gotten up. He's still eating a very late breakfast.

1 (48s):
I'll finish my noodles and I'll start packing

2 (52s):
with my coworker manual Barry. I'm going to quiet working-class neighborhood in the part of Hong Kong. It's called new territories. It's a Sunday to Catherine's getting ready to do what she does every weekend what you did yesterday. In fact, that's why she slept wait. She's going to a protest with a little backpack.

1 (1m 8s):
So this is the back Back that I usually

2 (1m 11s):
bring so this is a maroon

1 (1m 13s):
bag. It's a very small one. We have to keep everything light. So I always have a bottle of water and many teachers. I have to bring a lot of tissues because we need to wipe our eyes when there is tear gas and because I know how to do first day, I always bring my first aid kit

2 (1m 33s):
first aid kit is a little zipper bag with roller bandages and Gauze and gloves and stuff to sterilise the wound Catherine started in the Beaumont. Ambulance Corps in seventh grade and is used all this stuff at demonstrations. She packs her wallet and her are pods

1 (1m 47s):
because I have to listen songs

2 (1m 49s):
to batteries for a phone because he's on it constantly doing protest checking the continuously updated online maps that show where the police are and show Escape Routes. She packs a black T-shirt the uniform in Hong Kong protesters is black shirt black pants surgical masks to disguise their identities. So she's wearing a striped maroon shirt for the bus ride to the park.

1 (2m 10s):
Test. Yeah, I wear a normal t-shirt when I go out so that no one can identify. I'm going to protest and sometimes I bring makeup so that I can transform myself after the protest

2 (2m 23s):
everything. How do you transform yourself? Like what's the

1 (2m 26s):
I bring Foundation First of all, but can do everything

2 (2m 31s):
how different you going to look with that Foundation.

1 (2m 34s):
It looks like you're not going to protest because girls were going to protest a barely do makeup. But if I was doing make out there probably meeting someone and so I bring this one and then of course I bring my brow pencil because it really can make you look like another person

2 (2m 51s):
and I agree

1 (2m 53s):
and I bring lipstick. I'm sorry. It's a very small

2 (2m 56s):
room. So we're in your room your room has pink walls and there is a bunk bed with the bed on the top and a desk underneath

1 (3m 5s):
it. Yeah, it's very typical hongkongers room

2 (3m 10s):
for Hong Kong protesters to live at home with her mom and dad that is not unusual in any way if you know anything about the demonstrations that have overtaken Hong Kong since June, you know, it's mostly young people in the city where rents are high Catherines 22 and just graduated college. She's working her first entry level job at a public relations. Firm I came to Hong Kong because there were things about the protest that I really did not understand and we'll get to that one of the things that fascinated Me Once I arrived was learning what a routine the protests have become and what that was like for the people in them. This is mid September the 13th week protest for Katherine.

1 (3m 47s):
I'm not really worried cuz it's just like another day. I think I will meet up with two two friends of mine, but I'm not sure if I am going. Two because they are a couple so I don't want to be they are coupled with so I don't want to be the always kiss next to me. So yeah. Why

2 (4m 11s):
speak of the devil? It's a friend when he kisses her boyfriend at demonstrations, and she's calling with bad news. She's gonna bring gas mask to the rally today. They'd ordered them from Amazon Katherine thinks the now she's learned the bringing gas masks would be a bad idea because at the subway station

1 (4m 26s):
police are searching everybody including man little ones and Young People Like Us. They were searching the backs and if they have any equipment with them like the gas masks, I'm a Whatever they just arrest them. Yeah, so my friend just asked me if it is a must for me to get the gas mask. So I told her that no, it's not a mask. I don't want to risk my friend getting searched. So they she told the other friend not to come out with

2 (4m 58s):
equipment not ideal, but she's gone without gas mask before Catherine grabs. Her knapsack says by to her mom to tell her to come home early. I requested will be totally ignored we head outside. But then she turns and runs back. What'd you forget

1 (5m 16s):
umbrella? It is very important to have

2 (5m 19s):
umbrella. Even if it's not going to

1 (5m 21s):
rain. Yeah, it is not for the ring. It is for tear gas and bullets

2 (5m 27s):
rubber bullets. That is it works on

1 (5m 29s):
bullets. Yes, frankly. Yes. No. No, I don't understand why I've always those bullets they slip off along the umbrella Edge, so they just they don't get

2 (5m 41s):
Umbrella also protesters hide behind a wall of umbrellas and the painting graffiti or dismantle are closed circuit TV camera on the street doing anything else. They don't want the police to see if she and I had a manual head to the bus stop. We noticed other young people caring full-sized umbrellas on this totally sunny day talking over here like to the bus. Are you like looking around to see if other people you think are going to protest

1 (6m 6s):
always want to know how many peoples are around me, right? Yeah, and so there's like

2 (6m 11s):
some young people in our left two people standing next to you.

1 (6m 14s):
I think the group probably is not considered because she brings a fairly small back but the tall guy the tall the tall guy in white shirt. Yeah, and then the couple behind you probably

2 (6m 28s):
it's like are you on my side? Are you one of us once your the protest everybody's in a mask? So you don't really know who's on your team here in the neighborhood is kind of exciting to wonder who your allies might be. The protests in Hong Kong have been international news for months kicked off by people's fears that mainland China is threatening some very basic things about their city and their lives before other coverage here at our show. We finally we weren't seeing many stories where we got to know anybody very well who they were what exactly they expect it was going to come out of the protest given China's intransigence three of us arrived in Hong Kong and mid-september me and a manual and a co-worker Diane. Whoo, I have to say one of the things that was fast.

2 (7m 9s):
Dating given the ugly state of democracy here in the United States lately was to be among so many young people who believe so intensely in democratic ideals and urine so deeply for the basics like normal elections and free speech and free assembly though just in the last few weeks since we got to Hong Kong we'd like to situation changed dramatically. It's gotten much more violent harsh new measures by the government this hour, we have the story of the change that we witnessed what we think it might mean. If you haven't been following the story at all, maybe been sitting this one out. We're going to catch you up on what you need to know. We have all sorts of people from all sides of this that we want you to meet WBEZ Chicago. It's This American Life this week overseas with a lot of people who have some very American values stay with us that guy on the curse generation.

2 (8m 3s):
Okay. So what politicized thousands thousands of people this much that they've dropped their normal life. Coming out every single weekend to protest. It's now been 18 straight weeks to Catherine. For instance. She's somebody who worked at Abercrombie & Fitch during college. She told me on the bus to the protest. That's why your English is so good. Somebody wanted to be a singer actually got a chance to Go Pro when she was 16, but her mom watch that thing was too much of a long shot and she should get an education and get a normal job. Catherine was actually very surprised when I informed her that an American parent might have said the same exact thing.

1 (8m 36s):
I thought like American Dreams get to be true something like that because I watch Glee.

2 (8m 44s):
How did this Glee watching internet Savvy college grad and first office job. How did she end up protesting in the street every weekend with tens or I don't know maybe it's hundreds of thousands of her peers for starters Catherines 22, which means she's part of a special generation in Hong Kong

1 (9m 2s):
born in Hong Kong in 1997, right before the Handover. I'm Dorothy and I'm born 1997 my name is Ashley. I'm also born in

2 (9m 12s):
1997 your incoming Yoon and I'm born in 1987

1 (9m 18s):
to 1997 is a year when Hong Kong was headed over back to China from the British.

2 (9m 24s):
Okay, let's just pause on these 22 year olds for a minute for some quick history as you may or may not know Hong Kong sits on the edge of mainland China, right and was a British colony for a really long time starting in the 19th century and then finally 1997 the British got out. They handed over to China. The idea was there's going to be a 50 year transition period after 50 years China will fully be in charge but during that 50 years Hong Kong would be a democracy Now Hong Kong people are to run Hong Kong. That's last British governor of Hong Kong during the Handover ceremony in 1997. That is the

1 (10m 2s):
promise. And

2 (10m 4s):
that is the unshakable destiny. I did he clear Hong Kong had not been a democracy under Britain, but they were going to transition towards it every bunch of years and the Hope was after 50 years in 2047. The Chinese government let them stay a democracy which at the time did not seem like a crazy idea China was opening up in all kinds of ways though. It wasn't clear how this was going to play out. And at the end of the day after 50 years in the year 2040 seven China was going to be able to do whatever it wanted in Hong Kong. These are the children born the year that clock started ticking and have you heard of the phrase cursed generation.

2 (10m 44s):
Yes, it worked says joke among the 1997

1 (10m 48s):
people. It was it was pretty much a joke or pretty much a funny thing to us because I think when we first talked about it, it's really primary schools, but it hurts degeneration is just what we've been joking around for all those years

2 (11m 0s):
originally the joke had to do with a coincidence. They were cursed because of some weird bad luck during some big child. Hood Milestones, they all went through together like the year their kindergarten graduation. The SARS virus had Hong Kong and City shut down graduations were canceled six years later when they should have had their Elementary School graduation same thing happen again, but it was swine flu and Catherine remembers that her friends joke that when they graduated high school it was going to be a boa and that's when they started using the word

1 (11m 28s):
cursed. I think that was the time around the time the JK Rowling wrote Harry Potter and the cursed child. So many of us are all where the cursed I always say that we are the chosen one because Harry Potter was the chosen one all of us love Harry Potter. So we always know where the chosen one will have to face something special in our life or we are the cursed one. We have to face something bad or if it's something significant.

2 (11m 57s):
Nothing says is chosen one side of things didn't really kick into their senior year of high school. It was 2014. They were 17 the 17th year since the Handover and that your people in Hong Kong were still expecting that mainland China was going to let them start holding full on elections where they could choose their own leaders as promised back in 1997 and that year China announced it wasn't going to happen. Led to a movement called the umbrella movement headed by young people teenagers who learned their politics in these Public School classes that all these 22 year olds talked about as being instrumental in their thinking causes the began as part of the Handover called liberal studies classes, but explained among other things the promises of 1997 and the rice is Hong Kong citizens.

2 (12m 44s):
They took to the streets most of them for the first time the banding the boat carrying umbrellas. Thousands of people in a vast procession down the streets and protest movement that was almost entirely peaceful and they lost didn't get the vote after 3 months the protest ended Dorothy works for multinational company in an entry-level job out of college. She's a management trainee. She said she went to some protest back then out of solidarity with her

1 (13m 12s):
peers. I was just amazed by the other students,

2 (13m 16s):
but she didn't really get all the politics that changes June. Introduced the bill that would allow mainland China to extradite people from Hong Kong to be tried and punished in China under Chinese law. This was seen as a new and very menacing encroachment on the rights of Hong Kong citizens since 1997. They've been ruled by Hong Kong laws and Hong Kong courts. Everybody is Presumed Innocent with the rights. We know in most democratic countries. Now anybody could get thrown into the prisons and courts of communist China,

1 (13m 46s):
I would say that that that was the time when I first feel awake, and when I'm truly understanding what's happening when I first go to the march of the no extradition bill and I was very very emotional at that time because like there is only around 7 million people in Hong Kong but 1 million walk on the street with the same Demand with the same wish of like hopping Hong Kong to remain its currents day

2 (14m 19s):
when he had gone to stay like it is The tongue laws separate from China a week later too. Many people came

1 (14m 25s):
out at the time. I was feeling very oh my God, this is so touching like why is people so United and then the next second the government just declares that oh, we heard your voice, but we will be continuing on the bill on Tuesday. So that was like a really big contrast and like in the morning you see how peaceful things were but at night you see the police coming out and start totally hitting people. I was like, it was really Unforgettable to me because that was the first time when I witnessed with my real eyes that the police is chasing people. They are chasing students who did not do anything and start to bit them and

2 (15m 9s):
arrest them. Other 22 year olds also told us how radicalizing it's been to see police tear gassing and beating peaceful protesters. And at this point, I don't understand this before we got to Hong Kong a lot of the emotion driving. The protest is just about the police

1 (15m 28s):
because the government is supporting them to do such things and there is no penalty for them. Even if they are doing things that are completely and acceptable to everyone.

2 (15m 45s):
Of course. Nobody knows where this is going to lead by 20 47 when China fully takes over Hong Kong but Catherine and lots of other people who are aged things are starting to feel pretty ominous was Hong Kong going to become just like any other Chinese City run by the communist when you're 50, what do you picture life here will be like

1 (16m 4s):
I can picture that I would be super depressed because I was super like comment on political thing. I really cannot imagine the day that I cannot speak freely on Internet that we do not have that freedom of speech anymore. And I cannot imagine that there will come a day me and my friends commenting on the government would become a

2 (16m 30s):
crime and you think that would happen.

1 (16m 32s):
Yes, I do when like all the things that is happening in manage hand now, especially I would say in Where's sing Jiang Xin Jiang what is happening in st. John will happen in Hong Kong.

2 (16m 49s):
She's talking about internment camps with a Chinese are holding perhaps a million uyghurs and others.

1 (16m 53s):
They say it's re-education, but it's basically a concentration camp the put people who does not who do not agree with the government into the concentration camp and educate them and they got monitored wherever and whenever they go everywhere is police police monitors, everybody's move and I do think that if we do not fight for our future there will come a day Hong Kong would become like shinjang

2 (17m 21s):
because she's going to be active. This is not feel like an abstract threat when he's 22 year olds picture who China is going to crack down on its them Ashley's also in a first job out of college who works at a bank

1 (17m 32s):
who knows whatever they would do to us and under the extradition Bill who knows where we will go what time we will disappear. That's what we feel. Off

2 (17m 44s):
a she's heard of the social credit system. The China's started to Monitor and rated citizens. She visited China decides that your auntie government will make it impossible for you to get the job. You want rise in society. And the device is the China uses to monitor. Its population an estimated 200 million surveillance cameras around the country with facial recognition software. They've been going up around Hong Kong tens of thousands of them

1 (18m 8s):
many like an me are scared of being monitored and rated. So that we will never ever be free to do anything that we want under the monitoring of the Chinese

2 (18m 20s):
government. This is something else. I didn't understand before I came to Hong Kong the protesters like Ashlee and Catherine Duchess fear. What's going to happen in the future with a traditional is or who is in the internet or using free speech and their daily lives right now, they believe they're watching China already transforming Hong Kong making it less like the Hong Kong no more like the mainland Katherine points changes in the public school curricula like she says For seven year old nephew is speaking Mandarin in school five days a week. I didn't happen when she was a kid mandarins. Would they speak in? Mainland China and Hong Kong people mostly speak in Cantonese and English.

1 (18m 56s):
So all the Chinese classes are conducted in Mandarin. So he speaks Mandarin everyday. Basically, he speaks Mandarin better than English. Can you can you explain a little bit like why Cantonese is so important Cantonese is more like And identity to us,

2 (19m 16s):
it's part of what makes Hong Kong Hong Kong these days when Catherine pictures would have life is going to be like between now and twenty forty seven She imagines around kids going to Public Schools not studying Cantonese coming home and parroting the pro-government line that will be the curriculum by then.

1 (19m 31s):
So I do love kids. I really want to have kids. I want to have a football team of kids really but I just cannot imagine the life they will be having in huh Later on. I I cannot promise my kid happy life. If I am not certain about what Will Hong Kong become.

2 (19m 54s):
You don't think there are children who are raised to be happy and manga in China.

1 (19m 59s):
Not not the kind of happy that I think Hong Kong like mainland China people. They think that they are happy because they can still leave but then we we want things more than just surviving in this Society. We look for rights and freedoms and human rights, but the mainland China is they ignore all those things. They just think having a stable life having It's having foot a good place to live in is already happy enough. Yeah,

2 (20m 30s):
another change. She says she's seeing right now in Hong Kong. She's upset it all the mainlanders moving there in her neighborhood and University students achieving our friends in Canada college. So many men under she says

1 (20m 41s):
I I just feel really weird because I am wrong and raised in Hong Kong at Goats a local school, but then I have to be surrounded by all the mainlanders. Does it

2 (20m 52s):
bother you to be surrounded by mainlanders?

1 (20m 54s):
Yes, actually quite but then you know, we have a hundred and fifty new immigrants from China to Hong Kong every day,

2 (21m 2s):
okay, I just going to pause the tape right there for a second the total by the way is over a million mainlanders since 1997 roughly 45,000 a year, but I'm stopping say because I don't know how you're feeling about Kathryn but this was a point we came to in a few interviews with these 22 year olds when you got them onto the subject of mainlanders get ready for a wave of totally bigoted opinions,

1 (21m 23s):
so Especially I live in new territories. So all the people surrounding your hair Mandarin and then you start to see those less educated people. They squatting next to its streets. I did witness mainland's lady having her children P at the roads and I always hear Mainland people yelling shouting out for nothing in the mall and I always say jump into the line everything tips bother me a lot.

2 (21m 54s):
Not squatting. What do you mean

1 (21m 55s):
squatting? I don't know. They just they just squat on the roadside waiting

2 (21m 59s):
people. They just sit and squat and wait

1 (22m 2s):
for nothing. They can squat for an

2 (22m 6s):
hour people in Hong Kong. Don't do

1 (22m 8s):
that. We don't cuz who was what are the road? Why you can't your stand? Oh y-you can't just sit in my comfortable. It just doesn't look good. It doesn't look good. It doesn't look civilized.

2 (22m 28s):
Severely alarm the Catherine in the cursed generation feel about the future. The parents are often not as alarmed about China taking more control of Hong Kong and about what the islands going to be like in 2047. Like Ashley's parents the hater going out to protest every weekend.

1 (22m 45s):
I'm for my parents say like we really had some very serious

2 (22m 50s):
fight and they think we'll just let China take over Hong Kong. It'll be fine.

1 (22m 56s):
I think for my parents some of the older generation just don't believe or they are not brave enough to open up their eyes and see what is actually going to happen to they just feel like they did not do anything wrong. As long as you did not do anything wrong, then you'll be fine.

2 (23m 14s):
What's going about this for Ashley is that she feels like she's being the responsible one fighting for everybody's future and they're telling her not to protest. She was like maybe if her parents had done this themselves years ago things wouldn't be so bad today.

1 (23m 27s):
Like I'm 22 years old and in the past when I was younger, they have never stood up like us or fight like us to ask for what they are. First in

2 (23m 41s):
1997. It's funny when you talk about it, you're mad at your parents about it.

1 (23m 47s):
I just feel like I mean, I don't understand why like why they would not want these rice or white it they don't think that something bad is going to happen in the next 50 years.

2 (24m 6s):
So Ashlee and Catherine and so many others they've kind of given over there. Why? Extra protesting they work during the week protest on the weekends. He said they don't have much time in their lives for much else, but what's interesting is they don't think it's going to work. Most of our interview is told us that they don't think China is going to give in again. Here's Catherine.

1 (24m 28s):
I am pretty much pessimistic. Actually. I do wish that one day. We all succeed. We want a democratic Hong Kong, but now I just don't see a way out like it's been three months. We've been trying each and every step with broke into the legislative Council. We have more than a thousand people got arrested, but God Man is still trying to ignore all of this

2 (24m 55s):
if if you feel so pessimistic about the results, like why why still go like, why are you still going out every

1 (25m 3s):
weekend at least the government see that? We are not that how do we say we are not that obedient. So we have to continuously tell the government that we are not satisfied with what they are giving us. So we have to do

2 (25m 23s):
it again. Here's

1 (25m 25s):
Dorothy. I think even we if we have to lose we need to leave our true thoughts in history will we need to let the people behind us knows that with tried?

2 (25m 41s):
20:47 is coming and this is a very Grand thing to say but so many of these cursed generation kids feel like they have a special destiny. Alex prefer to speak to us through an interpreter. She's a Frontline protester build barricades. It's been arrested humming. One dodo how much yeah, I got that Hong Kong has a Doha go

1 (26m 4s):
home. I think we're actually lucky because we grew up with people who thought the same way and we realize that when we turn 50, it's the end of our freedoms. I'm 22 now, and I imagine that when I'm 25 that's already halfway.

2 (26m 22s):
Until the bomb explodes

1 (26m 24s):
and so if we don't do anything but a time where 50 years old,

2 (26m 30s):
it would be awful. I don't want our children to have the same

1 (26m 34s):
battle and then when we're 50 will look back and think that we didn't do enough. Our birthday is like a countdown to the end and so more so than other people. I feel like my generation we have a duty

2 (26m 47s):
to do more. Let's see how video seeming hammer. Again is Catherine

1 (26m 53s):
if we were born earlier? Probably I will become my dad and mom and if I were born later, I will probably become those little kids became an enduring better than Cantonese. So I am happy that I am born in 1997. We are in the middle. We have the chance to know what is freedom and we are experiencing that our freedom is being taken away. And that's why we are the group who step up first to fight for it. Although I think we are getting off hair. I think we're getting off

2 (27m 30s):
after an hour bus ride. We get to the protest Zack to the fight. Once you're off the bus Katherine Ducks into a public restroom and comes out in black shirt black pants black mask over your face hair pulled back in a ponytail and we had onto a street where we're surrounded by hundreds of people dressed exactly like her the big shopping district stores closed and no cars. All the side streets have been blocked off with barricades by the protesters. A floating and fencing trash cans and orange construction cones piled in the street. They do an efficient job. We meet up with Katherine's Friends by a big Victoria's Secret

1 (28m 3s):
store. My friend Kay Kay. Nice to meet

2 (28m 7s):
you. Nice to meet you out of your mind - Hugo Hugo Hugo. Yes, very nice to meet

1 (28m 11s):
you always kiss in front of me

2 (28m 16s):
for the record. I'm with the my life Junoon. No kissing it.

1 (28m 19s):
All

2 (28m 20s):
the city is giving permission for fewer protest these days and this is an unsanctioned. Raishin, we're at which means that everybody here is breaking. The law anyone is subject to arrest which affects crowd size maximum penalty is five years ten years of a convicted of rioting which is why are the protesters so scared of getting arrested all the time. But despite that the beginning of the protest has the feeling of a Bach Party People strolling chatting. You see if you parents and kids some non protesters cut through the crowd running errands. But an hour into all this I look around and realize no families. No kids. It's not feeling like a block party at all. People are standing on top of fences trying to see what's ahead of us starting to put on gas masks describe what you're

1 (29m 6s):
seeing the processors. In the Thomas treat moving backwards. So we assume that there are Riot police on the other end of the road. He'll die TGIF. Oh, there is tear gas fired over there.

2 (29m 26s):
There's like two or three blocks away. We walk towards the police and the tear gas pastimes of protesters who are knocking breaks out of the sidewalk with long steel tools and the ideas what

1 (29m 36s):
to put on the Rhode show later on the road police cannot run this

2 (29m 41s):
Also people throw bricks at please you might straight to the front lines where hundreds of protesters are massed on a side street. The police are just half a block away, but we can't really see them through the crowd and then a whole wave of tear gas canisters arcs towards us. It's us lots of people that's included. I'm back aways half-block away Catherine Conway ministers saving solution in the stranger's eyes. The controls are my recorder got knocked around running through the smoke so I do not have a decent record. Of that. This is the role that she's assigned yourself in the protest first aid helping anybody who requires it. She even brought energy can be specifically to give out to people whose energy is flagging after being driven back Catherine and Hugo and keikain I wait for the smoke to clear.

2 (30m 27s):
So this happens at every protest. Yes, basically, So what do we do now?

1 (30m 35s):
We tidy up our self and go

2 (30m 37s):
again. And when you get to the police, what you going to

1 (30m 40s):
do we're going to stand in front of them if have chance we're going to fight them back. Our goal is to make them to retreat the front

2 (30m 48s):
line after a couple minutes. We head back toward the front line. Okay, we're walking forward to its corner. Where it's this and then we wait around water cannon goes off blasting water that is dyed blue laced with stuff that stings your skin more tear gas. We pull back a little then. We move forward wait again. This is both on suspenseful and boring.

1 (31m 18s):
Sometimes it's not way. There's not always a purpose. Sometimes we setting out the bag is just out of support. Just add as a support to those at a front.

2 (31m 29s):
Support like something happens. You'll do first aid

1 (31m 33s):
something like this. But also they know that there were many people behind them. It is important to give them some mental support as well. Yeah,

2 (31m 42s):
so many protesters like Catherine if I get their job to support the people at the front here are the hardcore ones who push back against police and throw Molotov cocktails and Chase police with sticks and metal rods and tear stuff down to build barriers to slow the police wearing full gear helmet some goggles. Gas masks and gloves. Finally the front liners yelled that they want room to retreat and so we need to retreat and so we fought way back a couple bucks. So now we just standing here.

1 (32m 12s):
Yeah, because we always support our assistant is like a support two of those in the front line, but I don't understand like so the police

2 (32m 21s):
want us out of there. They push they fire tear gas. They spray Blue Water and everybody we move

1 (32m 28s):
back. And then we stand here and what's our goal? This has been a very frequently Asked question nowadays. We're just trying to stand on our own ground not to be disbursed. That easily. That's it. Just the goal is to just

2 (32m 47s):
stay out as long as you can and then eventually the police will push you off the street. So in other words, it's exactly like the entire protest movement waiting to 2047. Just try to slow them down as much as you can.

1 (33m 5s):
Yes in the end China will win

2 (33m 7s):
but for as long as you can you'll just stand here in the street.

1 (33m 10s):
It is pretty set to say so but yes, that's pretty much accurate. Yeah, that's

2 (33m 19s):
What are they yelling

1 (33m 20s):
to ask people to start moving?

2 (33m 22s):
There we headed to a massive Retreat is the police Advanced towards us. And for the first time there seems to be actual real fear. We're running down the streets and side roads. We get separated from Katherine's friends and from Emanuel dodging the police finally taking refuge in a church. They're safe houses like this around Hong Kong the protesters duck into the takes over an hour. Finally. The coast is clear. I'm Catherine calls a friend to pick her up. The volunteer drivers for the protesters part of the infrastructure. They've created Catherine changes out of her black T-shirt into civilian clothes no makeup. She's too tired. She says and no need of she's getting picked up.

2 (34m 2s):
I can't I

1 (34m 4s):
say goodbye to you man you for me as well. Thank

2 (34m 5s):
you. Has your car pulled away across the street on Queens Road? There was an endless row of police vehicles heading the other direction just dozens of them blue and red lights flashing and it's not went on things became violent woman approached us on the sidewalk upset about police beating somebody and showed us video that she'd shot of it and the protesters were violent as well. The newspapers had accounts of six of them beating up a middle-aged man kicking and shouting at him. They set fire to a subway station. They do that a lot. There's lots of protesters than Subway the MTR colludes with police. That's why Katherine prefers the bus even though that's convenient every protester.

2 (34m 47s):
We interviewed supports the violence they support it because they feel like they have no other options that it's the only way than get the government to respond to them. If you told us back in June, they March peacefully against the extradition bill got nothing then they got violent and the bill was withdrawn it worked violence has become a way to defend themselves setting fires and building barricades closed. Police who are coming after them. So they support the violence are they least understand it Manuel talked to them about that weird act three of our show and Civil Disobedience. Here's a manual when I started asking protesters about violence a couple of them said we're not violent like Americans are tolerance for it is much lower.

2 (35m 28s):
So getting to this point to being okay with violence isn't something we did lightly and a lot of them explained to me that they didn't always think radical tactics for okay. What change their opinion was away police responded to peaceful protest that being shot at with water cannons tear-gassed seeing someone knocked unconscious beaten with batons handcuffed and kicked groups of thugs beating and attacking people with hammers clubs and knives watching all this and being subjected to it. That's what got a lot of people on board with violence. Now some protesters threw Molotov cocktails vandalized buildings and Chase police with sticks and rods.

2 (36m 8s):
I ran I talked with one protester un do you think would be acceptable for the protesters to kill police? I hope they do so you do I do. If police died, what do you think would happen next? We will die too protesters will die too and if things get that violent between the protesters and the police and protesters are being killed. Do you think Hong Kong will get democracy?

2 (36m 48s):
I can't tell at the moment. So many people we talked with expected someone to die and protester or police officer. Most thought it would help the movement put pressure on the government. This hasn't happened yet, but destruction and violence are giving way to bizarre scenes throughout the city my coworker Diane and I went to this protest in a mall one of many in Hong Kong sometimes entire city can feel like one giant Chinese shopping mall connected by Subway. The stores are all open. The mall is full of people. But not many people are shopping. The entire premise of this protest is to go to the mall and not shop.

2 (37m 31s):
The mall is five stories. Each tier has railings that look out over a central Atrium their families kids older folks. Some people are in Black others are just in the regular day clothes. They chant they sing the protester and them glory to Hong Kong over and over at one point. Someone starts handing out paper and suddenly hundreds of people are folding paper cranes then an act of Vandalism there's this machine that prints out reservation receipts for the restaurant called Jade Garden the protesters High jacket forcing it to spit out hundreds of receipts.

2 (38m 12s):
They tape the receipts together and string them from one end of The Atrium to the other and Back Again a few times. They target Jade Garden because one of the company's Founders has a daughter who supports Beijing that's how far things have gone in Hong Kong businesses are labeled either yellow or blue. Yellow for the ones that support the protesters blue for the police and government. There's even a Google map that tells you if a business is one or the other soon things in the mall start to shift Diane and I watch a group of about a dozen protesters enter a pro-china bakery owned by the same company that owns Jade Garden. They start taunting the staff

1 (38m 54s):
umbrellas up

2 (38m 56s):
like blocking so you can't really see inside of

1 (38m 58s):
it. Is the person who works in they're still in there. Yeah, she is. Well, she was a minute ago. Okay, something fell and knocked over a display

2 (39m 19s):
before things can escalate any further the workers forced the protesters Out close the store Gates and barricade themselves in a Restless energy takes over. It's like the protesters are looking for something to confront something to disturb. But the thing they're fighting against is the existential threat of China and that's not really in the mall. They marched more approach is Businesses in the mall, the alarm starts going off and a PA announcement says the mall is very crowded. Please be careful. Then word comes police are on their way and some mood that feels like a mix of fear and adrenaline fills the space protesters began to build barriers out of whatever is not nailed to the ground locking door ways creating obstacles.

2 (40m 4s):
They want to stop the police from entering from the subway entrance of the mall. They start throwing trash cans down the escalators a group rips a 6-foot TV screen out of a wall to use as part of a blockade the PA announcement Remains the Same. Please be careful. The mall is very crowded. They open an emergency fire hose. Someone brings giant jugs of oil which they add to the water the tile floor of the mall. Lobby is now a little Lake that police will have to cross a woman slips and falls. And while all this destruction is happening the Shoppers the older folks even a few families. They don't leave their on the upper levels of the mall looking over the railing like they're watching a sporting event or something.

2 (40m 49s):
I'm super uncomfortable. The protester next to us Chan is so chill. Have you been to a protest like this before? Does this feel normal? Yeah. Is that

1 (41m 3s):
weird that it's normal though? Yes, but it's been a hundred day. So

2 (41m 9s):
the police eventually come but they meet the protesters outside the mall. They throw tear gas protesters threw a Molotov cocktail smoking gasp waft through Snoopy World a mini theme park on one of the malls upper levels giant statues of Linus and Peppermint Patty along with dozens of Shoppers and protesters who lined outdoor balconies all watch the confrontation. between police and protesters and fold below There's this thing that protesters say to each other never sever ties. Sometimes they even say never sever ties. Even if there's a nuclear explosion.

2 (41m 50s):
Basically if another protestor does something you disagree with say set something on fire beat someone up you don't criticize them or cut them off. My coworker Diane saw an extreme example of this at a protest about a week later. It was a very peaceful protest in a park at night. So Serene, Diane said she felt she could only whisper then a guy starts waving a big Chinese flag around protesters start shouting at him. You were supposed her out of one girl's hands. That's when the mob rushes him.

1 (42m 22s):
Oh shoot. There's someone who's on the ground and their heads getting smashed in there kicking

2 (42m 27s):
them. Dozens of people walk by and if anyone has a problem with this, they don't show it. He's left face down on the ground bleeding from his head. Eventually. Someone gets a first aid person to help manual Barry when it produces of our show. She used to live next door to Hong Kong and Macau for about a year coming up. You're a protester. You think the police are utterly immoral? Undefendable, so what do you do about the cop who happens to be your dad? That's a minute which God public radio when our program continues.

2 (43m 9s):
Support for This American Life comes from Squarespace create a website to Showcase your work publish new content or announce your upcoming events or performances and make it stand out with designer crafted templates that are e-commerce ready and all mobile-friendly right out of the box start your free trial and receive a special offer on your first purchase at squarespace.com / American and use promo code American a dream is just a great idea. That doesn't have a Website yet make it a reality with Squarespace and from Capital One with the Capital One Savor card. You can earn four percent cash back on dining and entertainment that means four percent on checking out that new French restaurant and 4% on bowling with your friends.

2 (43m 56s):
You'll also earn 2% cash back at grocery stores and one percent on all other purchases. Now when you go out you cash in Capital One what's in your wallet? terms apply This American Life Myra glass today's program umbrellas up stories from Hong Kong and what it's like for people to live through over a hundred days of protests there. I travel to Hong Kong with my co-workers Diane. Woo in a manual Barry we have arrived in Act 4 of our show act for good cop bad cop. So it's an American visiting Hong Kong for the first time one of the things that kind of killed me was hearing that before the last few years of protests people were really into the police like they were trusted they were respected.

2 (44m 40s):
And it was only the last few years, especially the last few months of protests that changed all that at a rally. I actually saw people chanting at a row of cops that they hoped that they and their families would die and feelings about who to side with the police or the protesters. They've gotten so intense. It's tearing families apart on the telegram app. There's a whole channel for protesters who get kicked out by their parents and need a place to live Alan you grew up in Hong Kong, you know as a family that is very far apart on this the sun is a protest. Stir the dad is a retired police officer and now and had them sit down and do what nobody in Hong Kong is doing talk to each other. There's really no dialogue between police and protesters anywhere in Hong Kong as far as we could tell here's Allen.

2 (45m 25s):
I've known this family since I was six I knew then because of my friend Jonathan I wrote the school bus with him every day. His father. Peter was the first policeman. I knew in real life. I was excited to talk to him. You never hear what the police think about the protests police here are not really allowed to talk to the Press Peter's retired, but still very connected to the force. So before the family all sat down together, I asked Peter to get together with me and my producer Emmanuel. I hadn't seen him since I was 12 back. Then people called me you gone, which means fish bowl because the Cantonese for fish sounds like my surname you And because I was fat, I won't recognize you on the street album.

2 (46m 15s):
I will okay serious. I'm serious. Okay. All right, I guess as a compliment. Thank you. He's very cute. Yeah, how used to be were fat as a kid. I liked Peter he take time off work to stop by during recess and bios chips and other snacks. My friend. Jonathan would have his birthday parties at the police station, which we loved. Big barbecues other policemen around Peter was the cool dad people in Hong Kong trusted even reviewed the police back. Then one of the most popular TV shows was a cop show tottering Cedar where the police were Heroes Peter's hair is gray.

2 (46m 58s):
Now, he's tall athletic. He plays tennis my mind my nickname in tennis. I don't know why my nickname in tennis is Federer. Yeah, better feather feather Roger. I don't I don't know why maybe my skill. I don't know. I don't know why he still likes his dad jokes. I cannot imagine Peter ever doing what I've been seeing in these videos beating up unarmed protesters kicking people on the ground. I thought surely he would object to some of those things and that his views would be complicated from what you've seen, you know in recent months has there been anything that the police have found that you think you would disagree with?

2 (47m 42s):
Nothing is perfect. But as a whole. in general I think the police are doing doing a pretty good job. If it is in other police force in other countries, you know, just look at the casualties. Look just look at the column of fatal, you know numbers it will it won't be zero. I asked him about different situations. The police have been criticized for I even show him videos of police brutally arresting people things. I think are clearly wrong, but he always seems to have a justification for the way police behave.

2 (48m 24s):
He says you're judging the police based on what we see in these clips. That's not fair. You don't know what the officer was facing the social media only show the part that police hitting people but one minute ago, They've been attack by lots of people. So one minute later he react to to the to the Mob, you know attacking them. So what you can see is one minute after but you did not see the full picture. He's not conflicted about police and he is very sympathetic to protesters. He thinks the process of destroying Hong Kong the extradition bill is okay. He doesn't think China will end free speech and Hong Kong and protest.

2 (49m 8s):
Fear of China is way overblown and naive Hong Kong Beast part of China. Come on pick up people pick up. This is the fact whether China is good or bad Hong Kong is part of China. If you don't like it, those people waving the United States flag waving the Union Jack Flag. If anyone takes you you can go to it. You don't go to England. Yeah, you can go to, Florida. Go to California. Yeah, go go if Trump takes you. Yeah, go. I'd already been worried how this family conversation was going to go hearing what Peter believed did not help

1 (49m 52s):
Peter told me he

2 (49m 52s):
understands that Jonathan goes to protest but doesn't ask him about it because he doesn't want any details. Jonathan said he does not ask his dad what he thinks of the way police beat and tear gas protesters for the same reason. He just like He says something. Vivi is something that's like completely doesn't make sense to me it sort of brings him down and like as a person it just like I would feel like he's just yeah, not not who I thought he was. I'd like scares you to like I think that could be true.

1 (50m 40s):
So this family does not talk about the protests

2 (50m 43s):
at all

1 (50m 45s):
tennis. Yes soccer. Yes pets great,

2 (50m 51s):
but no politics till tonight. They've agreed to have the conversation. They found avoiding after dinner. Jonathan's mom. Alba washes the dishes. I recognize the song right away. I'm surprised she's humming it in front of Peter. It's a protesters new Anthem glory to Hong Kong. Alpha is on Jonathan side. She works with lawyers including some in the pro-democracy camp. I asked if Peter knows what that song is. She says maybe

1 (51m 28s):
you can go wrong.

2 (51m 31s):
That's kind of how it's been going between her and her husband no real discussion, but the occasional passive-aggressive comments while they're watching the news or some passive-aggressive humming during dishes. This is another reason Jonathan avoids bringing up the protests. He doesn't want to start a fight between his parents. What were the worst scenario be

1 (51m 53s):
like

2 (51m 60s):
Someone moving out I guess. Yeah, because they can't stand it anymore. Yeah, I guess living apart would be the worst case scenario I believe. because that like sort of unofficially means that you no longer together sort of yeah, that could be his mom or his dad or

1 (52m 23s):
him. We all sit at the dinner

2 (52m 29s):
table. I don't know why they agree to talk about this maybe just because I've known them for so long and I asked or I hope maybe part of them wanted to talk and I was just a good excuse Peter's facing me and Jonathan and Alpha are next to me. Jonathan has their dog Loki named after the Marvel character on his lap standpoint of the conversation starts. All of them saying in different ways it's fine that we don't talk about this. We all have mutual respect bunch of mutual respect. There are two real legal instead of talking to each other or looking at each other. They're talking to me or looking at the dog.

1 (53m 11s):
It feels all very

2 (53m 12s):
careful proper and calm this continues for half an hour then everything changes when Peter uses the word compromise compromise, Paulie. Beep hi compromise. It's basically the government line. That's what Hong Kong's chief executive. Carrie Lam says that the protesters should stop protesting. And after that the two sides can talk Alpha and Jonathan here that as meaning the protesters should back down. They both lay in 2 Peter J. They walk

1 (53m 55s):
Uncle tolik a Jamba gin trimmed it down

2 (53m 58s):
Elvis's the police are the ones who need to change they have to calm the situation Peter says the police are doing their job, I don't know why when the police arrest people for fighting or breaking stuff is treated us weird. It's illegal so arrest them. No problem. Jonathan says, okay. Yeah arrest them. How much force does the police need to use sometimes a person just ask the police a question and they still get arrested or beaten?

1 (54m 31s):
Oh people who are already

2 (54m 32s):
on the ground kneeling subdued they still get beaten Peter doesn't respond then they argue openly argue for the first time about one of the protesters main demands something the government refused to budge on to start an independent investigation into police. Savior comes a giant foot patrol guys take whatever Peter keeps repeating the same thing over and over like he's been backed into a corner that there's no need for independent investigation now is not the right time. I see how the city already has a system in place to investigate complaints about the police coming would you do gone George gum?

2 (55m 17s):
I see how they talk a little longer, but it doesn't go anywhere. Alva tells me later. She had other things she could have brought up but decided against it. She didn't want her husband's a few trapped the word. She used was Seco which translates as that corner no place to go. Preserving the family was more important to her than trying to win an argument. Later, Jonathan told me he still loves his dad, but he's given up hope that his father could be a reasonable human being at least when it comes to the police.

1 (55m 58s):
When I started this, I was kind of

2 (55m 60s):
naive. I thought maybe Jonathan and his mother and father people who actually want to understand each other could talk about this in a productive Manner and that if they could maybe there was hope that the rest of us could but now I don't have a lot of Hope. And you he's normally reporter for WHYY show the pulse. High five slow boat to China. So what about all the people living in Hong Kong who have no problem with China who like China there's a lot of them and they hold their own demonstrations, which are pretty small flag parties or flash mob show up at malls and wave Chinese flags and seeing the Chinese National Anthem and the Big Data celebrate China normally would be October First National Day the anniversary of the Communist Party founding the Chinese State and this year is going to be a big one.

2 (57m 1s):
It was the 70th anniversary and the people who support mainland China were kind of resentful because this day was supposed to be this huge holiday for them but anticipating massive protests the city shut down fireworks were cancelled trains weren't running almost all the malls. We're going to be closed. The protesters had ruined the day again. So in Defiance, the pro-china people organized an Anthem singing party for the morning of the first our co-worker Diane woo went

1 (57m 30s):
the party took place at 8:30 in the morning on a boat. Not just any boat on the Star Ferry this iconic Hong Kong commuter / sightseeing boat on the Harbor the fairies are these beautiful old boats from Colonial times with names like Silver Star Northern Star twinkling star. And today one of them is going to get completely covered with Bright red Chinese flags a couple dozen people are gathering at the ferry terminal. They're mostly strangers know each other Loosely from previous flash mobs and get-togethers. I don't go I love China. They shout they to support the police. Oh, yeah, kind of funny when you think about it all these people up so early on their day off getting on a boat to sing the national anthem together.

1 (58m 20s):
It's also a little dark because there's a real threat of violence against people who don't support the protest one of these flag parties two weeks ago at a mall devolved into a brawl when protesters showed up people on both sides got Up. And so going out on a ferry to shout pro-china slogans is strategic. Once you're on the boat out at Sea. You ought to be safe from a counter protest as one guy put

2 (58m 43s):
it. Well, we've been living in Terror for the last three months because the people on the other side the Riders they're the really good at the terrorizing tactics. They make you feel that you should be afraid of speaking up and speaking out against them because they're so organized

1 (59m 1s):
and then terminal everyone gathers in a semi-circle. Circle holding special holiday issues of the China Daily and singing the Chinese National Anthem together. It's a little shaky the guy leading. It told me he just learned the words a couple weeks ago. Most of the people here best as I can tell are not mainlanders who grew up with the anthem ones. I talked to were all from Hong Kong being this into China is new for them something that only happens. And when the protests got bad enough that they found themselves rallying around this new flag and it's not always comfortable. I'm getting on the boat with Daniel.

1 (59m 42s):
The guy who is griping about being terrorized when someone puts a heart cheap sticker on him. So just got a tiny Spike sticker Stuck on You

2 (59m 50s):
Yes. Yes. I feel a little cringy about this helpful why I know exactly that red compared to a lot of people here are not the most red person

1 (59m 60s):
read in the crayon box of the Hong Kong protests or first to being pro China vs. Blue for the government and yellow for the protesters Daniel almost didn't come this morning. Actually. It's not really his scene. He sees being this patriotic about China is kind of dorky

2 (1h 0m 17s):
moreover. I always told my friends I would never want to live in China because there's a lot of things in China that you know, I can't accept if I were to be forced to live in China

1 (1h 0m 28s):
the two things he can't accept that we end up talking about are the lack of free speech and censored.

2 (1h 0m 33s):
To the internet, but the truth is I live in Hong Kong and I get to retain my almost uncheck freedom for 20 more years and it's such a sweetheart deal for Hong Kong

1 (1h 0m 42s):
people pointed out to him that after 28 years. It's very possible. Those freedoms would disappear. He had the same response that I heard from other people who don't like the protests. He was like, well sure maybe

2 (1h 0m 55s):
well, I guess you're talking me to appreciate a young people's perspectives, but but in exchange for the freedom that they fight for their They're wreaking havoc and they're destroying Law and Order and

1 (1h 1m 8s):
the balance is not worth it to you.

2 (1h 1m 11s):
If I were to choose between this if trying to say in order to have Law and Order, I will need to sacrifice a freedom of same way trans people have in Hong Kong. I would except that balance. This is unacceptable the whole an organized chaos Revolution and the habitat. They brought in Hong Kong is completely unacceptable. I will give up the freedom the way they do in China to stop

1 (1h 1m 32s):
this. It's a big jump from I could never live in China to I would sacrifice my freedom just to get this to stop but the intensity of the protests and his frustration with what he's experiencing in the city have driven him to at least try on this extreme idea. Daniel's 40 Works in finance. He lived in the US for 12 years. He's a football fan roots for the Chicago Bears because he likes Tenacious defense he says he wasn't politically involved before all this went to one of the big peaceful protest last spring mordo watch than to participate.

1 (1h 2m 13s):
But that changed one day when he was watching a live stream of the young protesters storming the legislative Council. He was surprised how ferocious they seemed how even the police officers

2 (1h 2m 23s):
looked a little scared. That's at that moment. I suddenly realized. Oh, we're actually very close to a revolution that could happen. It just never occurred to me that Hong Kong would Go through that. It's both stun and anxiety about unknown anxiety, you know things things can change abruptly. If there isn't a revolution is going to force the hand of their Chinese government to crack down on it violently and that anything can happen. Like I could lose all the privilege. I have as Hong Kong citizen protection of come along freedom of speech but also freedom of speech protected by common law.

2 (1h 3m 3s):
nobody in China enjoy these freedom, but if it gets to a if it gets to a certain point we can lose all of these privileges which I treasure

1 (1h 3m 15s):
he woke up the next morning to see that the coverage was wall-to-wall about police brutality to Daniel. It seemed like everyone was leaving out the fact that the protesters had started it which seemed deeply unjust to the

2 (1h 3m 27s):
police and that's when I started turning blue when I when I felt that their police were smear unfairly. I took my Sai I chose to be on the police side

1 (1h 3m 38s):
other people cited against the protest for different reasons a big one. I heard was the disruption they caused a security Guard told me he had to transfer four times to get home one night because of Subway shutdowns a woman trying to get cash out of an ATM that had been destroyed by protesters said if you're mad at the government take it out on the government. You're only hurting people like me a man said to me sadly Hong Kong is our home. Why are they destroying it? The crowd on the boat finishes belting out the national anthem a second time when suddenly everyone rushes to the railing everyone's waving at the sea police.

1 (1h 4m 20s):
They all ran to one side of the boat. It feels like an my tip over everyone crammed together on one side in a position. That's a little precarious. That's kind of like Daniels world right now. He felt pushed to choose a team like it or not. These are his new people. He doesn't think like them exactly but he feels more aligned with these Chinese nationalists on this boat waving at the police then with the angry protesters gang up on them, even if those protesters ultimately Want the same thing. He does

2 (1h 4m 52s):
to preserve the freedoms in Hong Kong

1 (1h 4m 59s):
putting on the upper deck of the Star Ferry. This was actually the first time Daniel had ever song The National Anthem in public. He told me later as he sang. He was surprised to find that he felt

2 (1h 5m 10s):
something. Diane who is the managing editor of our show and she also has one more story for us. I'm going to set this up. It is act six of our show X6 two weeks later. So October 1st wasn't just a big day for supporters of mainland China. If anything, I think it was even more anticipated by pro-democracy protesters. The new China did not want to be embarrassed by demonstrations in Hong Kong on that day such a big anniversary and in the weeks leading up, To it several of them told us that they were worried. What kind of crack down was going to come on October 1st, or maybe in the days before it with government try to shut them down.

2 (1h 5m 54s):
And sure enough the weekend before October 1st. There were tons of Police Undercover cops posing as protesters surge in address and on October 1st, something happened that several of our interviewees predicted for the first time a protester was shot with a real bullet a teenager. In the days after that things descended the government banned wearing face masks in public which caused huge backlash in the streets. Another teenager a 14 year old was shot by police. Both teenagers divided by the way, a protester slashed and officers neck with a box cutter a bomb went off next to a police car Catherine the producer that I went to the demonstration with the mid September.

2 (1h 6m 34s):
She went to all those protests in the days before October 1st, and then she was out on October 1st that big violent day. And Diane caught up with her the day after that October 2nd to see how she was doing and to see what you made of it all

1 (1h 6m 49s):
I met up with Kathryn at the MTR station in Chun. Hwan on a Wednesday. She taken the MTR only because she was in a big rush to meet me after work have a long day fairly long. It is a really sad thing after yesterday. She's talking about the protester who was shot. It actually happened just a short walk from where we're standing. The last few days of protests had been especially bad Katherine was in the middle of the crowd when dozens of special tactics police officers exploded out of a hidden door sprinting after protesters and tackling them to the ground people hadn't seen this before.

1 (1h 7m 29s):
It caused a wave of panic everyone fled in Terror including Catherine. Her phone was flooded with images of Arrested protesters pinned On The Ground by Riot police face down with their wrists tied behind them later. She met Friend KK the one who went to their protest with IRA and her and found out that in the rush. She got entrapped. She came really close to getting arrested all of a sudden everything was so close to me a very important friend of mine nearly getting arrested and all the pictures and footage has I could see after today. Everything just was so was just too much for me too close.

1 (1h 8m 11s):
Yeah. Catherines deeply fearful of getting arrested remember it could mean years in prison after all of that on October 1st. She was almost too scared to go protest but braved it. Anyways, then police started to fire tear gas at people up ahead of them. We were on our way walking from chosen one to quite form and I realized that I couldn't keep walking. I started to realize that I just feel different like Two weeks ago when I was when I was with era I could still feel it is safe to run. I'm going to be fine and I could still like run without any hesitation but on but yesterday I just feel like I was so terrified.

1 (1h 9m 1s):
I started to shake from the inner side and I didn't know what to do. She panicked started crying her boyfriend helped her get home, so I had to leave. Leave yesterday, but then actually on my way home. There was a friend of mine. I think he was just joking and say you left your teammate behind he sent this to me. Yeah, so I was immediately crying I cried out immediately and really could not control myself because I didn't want this. I don't want to leave my teammates behind. I don't want to leave anyone behind but I don't want to be a burden and then all of a sudden yesterday I couldn't do anything at

2 (1h 9m 47s):
all.

1 (1h 9m 54s):
The police strategy of clamping down on the protest by outlawing almost all of them then flooding the streets with Riot police in arresting tons of people. This is the toll it's taking and of course, this is one way the whole thing could end. Maybe it'll scare people off. Katherine's boyfriend Joe shows up. He's got his shirt tucked in a new protest tactic from this weekend. The idea is to try and expose undercover police who wouldn't be able to tuck their shirts in over their guns and batons Joe's here for moral support because incredibly Catherine is now on her way to another protest. We're headed to a soccer stadium across the street from where the protester was shot.

1 (1h 10m 37s):
Catherine figures she'll stay as long as she can tolerate we walk onto the field. It's a big solemn group of people and their work and school clothes all facing the bleachers. There are a lot of people not sure what they are looking at, but I think there are just waiting for a moment to mourn. It's a kind of vigil for the protester in the hospital Katherine and Joe put on black surgical masks. Everyone has their phones up with Lights

2 (1h 11m 7s):
on

1 (1h 11m 35s):
we go into the streets. Catherine's on edge every time she hears a loud noise. She squeezes shows hand. She'll stay out until 10:30, then she'll get dinner go home. Go to bed in the morning. Catherine will be at work again at her job where she can't let her bosses know where she was the night before overnight. The road cleaners will come out with backhoes to clear the barricades. They'll paint over the graffiti fix this match streetlights tidy up the piles of bricks in the gutters erasing their protest is they have so many

2 (1h 12m 7s):
Days

1 (1h 12m 7s):
before turning the city back to normal. Except of course, it can't be normal

2 (1h 12m 14s):
again. Diane woo,

1 (1h 12m 23s):
because when the sunshine we shine together I told you I'll be always be your friend took an oath that I'm stick it out till the end. Now that it's raining more than ever know that we still have each other. You can stand on a mark you can stand under my

2 (1h 12m 48s):
the program is produced today by Emanuel Barry and I am will are brilliant field producer in Hong Kong was the any Chan thanks to our interpreters for Chong Diana Chan and Dominic Yang people who put together a show today includes. On the baker Susan Burton Zoe chased and Achieve is Sean called Damien grave Michelle Harris Jessica Lawson hop Niki me: and it's East. Oh Nelson Katherine raimondo been feeling naughty Raymond, Robin Sammy and Chloe Sullivan crystals for tawa. Our executive producer is David kestenbaum special. Thanks today to Dave Hill for the cover of the theme of the cop show armed reaction and special. Thanks to a real chore Karen Chang Noble Wang you so shy pay Alana thede Die Young fan and Martin Lee our website This American Life dot-org This American Life is delivered Public Radio.

2 (1h 13m 30s):
Asians by PRX the public radio exchange support for This American Life comes from the Lagunitas Brewing Company feeling stories and songs Lagunitas IPA. And of course committed him in the pub in public radio. Find out more won't you a Telugu need us.com. Thanks as always to our programs co-founder. Mr. Troy mallick to you know, he will never forget his first time on a carousel way tells the story he gets on a horse. It starts to go around at that moment. I suddenly realized oh, we're actually very Close to the revolution. They could happen. I'm Ira Glass back next week with more stories of This American Life.

2 (1h 14m 22s):
Next week on the podcast of This American Life we have I have to say our happiest show ever is there is about love cute little bunnies pretty rainbows. And what's that? Who is that so is mine Halloween scary stories that all are true. Ha ha ha ha ha ha