1 (1s):
Support for This American Life comes from Squarespace make your website your own with the ability to customize the look and feel settings products and more for a free trial of your new website. Visit. Squarespace.com American and enter American Squarespace. Think it dream it make it. And from State Farm The Helpful Folks at State Farm are there for you on those days when it feels like problems just pop out of nowhere for auto and home insurance State Farm agents are ready to help find one at statefarm.com. Of all the things in the movies that could happen to you and there's so many right I think getting shrunk down to a miniature size.

1 (48s):
I think that is one that nobody would ever choose. It seems dangerous. It seems frightening how Marvel Comics ever thought that shrinking could be a superpower. That is really totally Beyond me turning yourself into a person the size of a pencil eraser. It doesn't make anything easier. Everything is harder in movie Ant-Man the first time Ant-Man shrinks. He's instantly a mortal danger water in a bathtub nearly drowns them people dancing in an apartment almost crush him with her high-heeled shoes a rat tries to eat him. It's a ridiculous superpower. The writers actually have to cheat and give Ant-Man a whole second power mind control over Army's Advance or he'd never get anything accomplished.

1 (1m 35s):
But these stories of tiny people, you know Honey I Shrunk the Kids The Borrowers when I was young I loved the film Fantastic Voyage. I do get the appeal of them. They give this feeling of what if what if I was so small that I could stand between the Wafers of an Oreo cookie that I could climb onto an insect. Last year when she was in fourth grade Chloe thought about this a lot. She's getting Suburban New Jersey now. She's in fifth grade. You find it embarrassing but last year of every night when you go to bed she prepare for the possibility that magic might strike while she was asleep and that you would shrink down to the size of her dollhouse.

1 (2m 16s):
There's preparations

3 (2m 17s):
included. I would sleep on the edge of my pillow. It's like the very top of my head is on the pillow and then the rest of my body is on. At

1 (2m 27s):
that way if she shrunk in the middle of the night, she'll be on the bed and not on the pillow which seem way more treacherous to her. She hasn't took a slap bracelet which you know can stretch out like a ruler and positioned the ruler very carefully like a little Bridge from

3 (2m 44s):
the edge of my bed to the edge of my bedside table.

1 (2m 48s):
And why?

3 (2m 50s):
To walk from my bed to my bedside table where I had the little

1 (2m 54s):
hammock little hammock which she made for herself to sleep on which is basically a bracelet of intertwined rubber bands suspended in air on a frame of Q-tips.

3 (3m 5s):
And then I also had a little on the couch and the couches on the bedside table. So you walk past the ruler you turn left. You'll see the couch and if you go a little beyond that you'll see the

1 (3m 18s):
hammock and of the It was a calculator that you could step one with little footstool to get up on to the hammock. And next to the couch was a Post-It fold it in half with a note to her parents explaining that she had shrunk already to be unfolded when this really happened to her for real and finally every night when you went to bed.

3 (3m 38s):
I took some of the really important things to me put them in a blanket and then held onto the blanket every night hoping that it would turn small with me.

1 (3m 47s):
So what would be wrapped up in the blanket

3 (3m 49s):
my stuffed animal boo? Ooh, my cat stuffed animal one of my books and a couple other stuffed

1 (3m 56s):
animals. And were you hoping that this would happen or were you fearing that this would happen that you would get

3 (4m 2s):
small? I was I was both

1 (4m 5s):
that a BB major hearing akoi was being recorded on a telephone whose battery started dying at this point in the interview making that beeping noise. Tell me the Hope tell me the fear

3 (4m 15s):
the Hope because then I would be able to live my dollhouse with Had a little swing on the porch. It's cool. And I wouldn't have to watch Netflix with my sister and like every popcorn would be like a meal.

1 (4m 32s):
So that's the Hope. What was the fear?

3 (4m 35s):
The fear was my parents wouldn't be able to hug me. I I might not have Electronics. I wouldn't be able to see my friends because I would be tiny and I want to be able to go to the pool.

1 (4m 51s):
You wouldn't be able to swim anymore.

3 (4m 53s):
Yeah, well my parent my mom could just Set up like a little

1 (4m 56s):
bowls. He's going to say she could just take a tray of water and just like put it out for you.

3 (5m 1s):
Yeah.

1 (5m 8s):
Once you start to think about the world this way is small stuff can become a really transfixing the sheer tininess of tiny things can have a kind of mesmerizing power to it. We're talking about this at our office last week and Bim took the most extreme stand on this I dragged her into the studio to talk about this.

3 (5m 25s):
I just like generally small things if there is a small version of a thing. I am interested in seeing it or reading about it or hearing about

1 (5m 32s):
it. It's been will tell me about the radically tiny tubs of Vaseline. Can buy whatever the exact design of the bigger

3 (5m 38s):
jars, it's about the size of my thumbnail. Maybe my thumbnail and a half. They're very small. They're very cute. They don't look like they real they look like ornaments that you might hang from a Christmas

1 (5m 49s):
tree. And what do you like about them

3 (5m 51s):
is? What I like about them is just how small they are. They seem almost pointless. You can find Vaseline in any number of other sizes the fact that this exists I think feel it feels like somebody just yeah. It was just a pointless gesture. Let's make Vaseline even smaller like you imagine them looking across one another and kind of going. Hey should we make this smaller and someone so there's no need and they were like precisely and I think I think Small Things by Nature are Whimsical they just feel like oh you didn't have to be you don't have to exist. But here you are and that's what makes them kind of

1 (6m 24s):
Joyful. They're just things for the pleasure of smallness and staring at smallness.

3 (6m 30s):
It's like when you look at broccoli and you think oh, I'm a giant in this is a small tree. It's that feeling. I'm almost 40.

1 (6m 42s):
Do you still have that feeling you look at a broccoli in your think it's like a small tree. I

3 (6m 46s):
don't still have that feeling. I used to have that feeling when I was a child. I will not

1 (6m 50s):
be mocked. No one has mocked you yet your

3 (6m 54s):
face.

1 (7m 1s):
Leno program Small Things Considered we have stories of people overlooking. What is so great about the tiny the minuscule the PeeWee the bite size and the teensy-weensy also it's a very dramatic examples of the power of smallness and going for instance the power to end health insurance as we know it for millions of people WBEZ Chicago. It's This American Life. I'm Ira Glass my voice affected by some sort of tiny tiny bug this week stay. Stay with us. At one point coming up short.

1 (7m 43s):
So while ago we got an email from a physician. It was starting to see a trend that Disturbed her among our patients join us to look into it. We thought I could you Peter Scott Brown would be the best person for the job for reasons that will become clear as he proceeds here Scott. So this doctor told us that all of these parents have been coming. Her scabs of them. She used the word inundated with the same problem. Their kids were short not dramatically short. They were just below average height for their age. We're talking 9 10 11 year-old kids and what these parents wanted was for this doctor to prescribe them human growth hormone injections to make their kids taller. These are daily injections that cost tens of thousands of dollars a year.

1 (8m 26s):
It's usually affluent privileged families. This doctor says who already have all the advantages she As far as to call the desire for growth hormone among these folks an

3 (8m 34s):
epidemic because I've had parents come to me and say everyone I know is on growth hormone. That was an actual quote everyone I know is on this stuff or it's all the rage in this Anonymous Community very affluent Community.

1 (8m 48s):
This doctor wanted to be completely Anonymous, by the way. She feels like she's whistleblowing. In fact, this isn't her real voice. We swapped her voice for an actor's in our recording of the interview since I can't identify her. I'll refer to her. I'm here on as short throat. All we can say is she's a pediatric endocrinologist that is a children's doctor specializing in stuff like diabetes thyroid problems and growth. She said she got into medicine to treat sick kids but fully half of her patients are coming to her just for the growth

3 (9m 18s):
part. So parents will, you know find out one kid is being treated and assume that their child because they're below average needs it to like oh if they're doing it then am I going to be missing out? In fact, I think The freeze one mom used with something. Like I'm just trying to be proactive and worried. I don't miss my window of opportunity.

1 (9m 39s):
That window is real parents have to start their kids on the drug by the time they're hitting puberty short throat has been practicing for about seven years, but she works closely with other doctors who have been added for decades

3 (9m 50s):
and they do say that it's gotten much much worse. Like they don't remember anything like this. I mean one of my senior colleagues, it's almost like she's surprised every time like I can't believe this kid came in here. A look at this growth chart and I walk in the office and it's a kid growing at the 40th percentile with parents who are like the 40th percentile

1 (10m 8s):
40th percentile meaning 40% of the rest of the country is shorter than they are. So just below average and she's

3 (10m 15s):
like, can you believe they're here for growth? And I'm like, yes, I can believe that because we're see this is like everyday you call me in and are like flabbergasted by the same

1 (10m 23s):
thing.

3 (10m 30s):
I had a conversation where I had a patient come see me. Her son was 5 foot 7 mom was 5 for dad was 5/8. They want a treatment if you say something them like well, his predicted height is five nine. You might get a response that something like well, that's unacceptable. Yeah. You're laughing but

1 (10m 51s):
that's my job. I'm laughing for so many different reasons. Do you get it now? Oh I get it. I've gotten in my whole life. This is probably the point in the story where I should level with you if I could George joke, I'm just under five three which puts me right around the first percentile of American males by height shorter than 99% of the men in this country for years. I thought I was 5 for second percentile. But a recent doctor visit confirmed that I'd been rounding up. I've always been the smallest guy in the room consistently smaller than other kids for as long as I can. Remember there are some downsides sure, but I think I have a pretty good life my successes and failures.

1 (11m 34s):
I do not lay them at the tiny feet of my shortness. My height is just one thing about me not the thing not the defining thing. But recently I wrote a young adult novel about a 16 year old boy who's 4 foot 11 and struggling with his identity and I found myself thinking every day about being short what it meant to me what it might have been what I might have missed and then I hear from this doctor about all of these parents who think having a son my size is unacceptable and come to her to fix it to fix them short-throw tells the families who just want to enhance their kids hype that she won't do that. But that doesn't always stop

3 (12m 11s):
them. There are some Private Practice pediatric endocrinologist in our area who I mean the phrase I've used is like I feel like they would give growth hormone to a rock if you have some to like sitting people down and like giving them the worst case scenario High prediction and then being like this is what you need and then treating

1 (12m 30s):
them. Oh, so like they're consult is part of saying is like you don't want to short get here, you know, you know, you know, yeah, you don't want a

3 (12m 36s):
hobbit. Oh, absolutely. That's what the pair. I mean, like, I know the prescribing practices of all of the Peds and O's in our It because people like bounce around and they doctor shop and they want other

1 (12m 45s):
opinions among the things that bother her the most a lot of the parents seem oblivious to the possibility of side effects. But really the biggest be in short throats growth hormone Bonnet is the fairness aspect the full treatment over four or five years can cost three hundred thousand dollars or more and even though most of these families are rich they find ways to get it covered by Insurance when someone for diabetic patients can't even get the latest insulin pump covered. She also says she's seen Rich families take advantage of patient Assistance programs, the drug companies offered a meteor folks.

3 (13m 17s):
Like I've seen affluent patients get on these quote-unquote patient Assistance programs when like, okay, this is terrible, but sometimes I will Zillow their house and I'll be like you live in a 6 million dollar home and you're getting patient assistance for your kids growth hormone gross gross. Just gross.

1 (13m 38s):
It's important to say short throat does treat some kids with growth hormone kids who aren't producing enough of it or any of it on their own that's a serious health problem, but she'll also treat them if a kid is just going to be really really short like way way below average like way down in this basement percentiles where I am using growth hormone is kosher in cases like this according to the FDA. That's because there's a diagnosis for people like me. I learned about it while researching my book. Called idiopathic short stature. ISS sounds scary but all it means is I'm short and no one knows why and because I fit that diagnosis I could have been what a short throats patients.

1 (14m 23s):
So yes, even our whistleblower who believes this stuff is overused would have treated me if I'd come to her if my parents had wanted it and is one of those otherwise healthy kids who's just short and who kind of resents the use of the word. Otherwise I Add all of this looks not a whole lot like medicine. It looks cosmetic like a boob job for kids short kids. But before I went off on a Napoleonic rage Bender over the claims of this one Rogue grow doctor. I thought I'd run those claims by dr. David B Alan another pediatric endocrinologist and arguably the leading expert on this topic.

1 (15m 7s):
He sat on the panel that wrote the recent guidelines for growth hormone treatments for kids spend writing papers about it for three decades specifically about idiopathic short stature when you actually I mean not to get personal but you sound like you do fit the Mrs. You met did you just diagnose me over the radio? Yeah, it's amazing. I mean, I've got a lot of experience. He said he didn't think unnecessary growth hormone treatments for kids was an epidemic per se the reluctance of insurance companies to cover such an expensive and if he treatment keeps widespread use tamped down, but sure there are lots of families in more image-conscious wealthy places who put their kids on it when he writes about using growth hormone for height, not Health the phrase he uses.

1 (15m 51s):
Cosmetic endocrinology, and he told me this story back in the day growth hormone was used almost exclusively on kids who were growth hormone deficient the way you give insulin to a diabetic and the only source for the stuff back then was the pituitary glands of cadavers dead people. So the supply was limited unfortunately because it came from cadavers. Some of it was tainted with a brain disease similar to mad cow was a freak thing. This was in the 80s dozens of young All got sick some of them died. But that same year synthetic growth hormone became available. Now there was lots of the stuff lab made safe from contamination.

1 (16m 32s):
Dr. Allen told me in my producer Sean cold that the drug industry and doctors started looking around for other uses like say making idiopathic Lee Short Kids less idiopathic Lee Short, you know, idiopathic short stature really became a thing once there was growth hormone treatment available that might work. I mean it was a descriptive term, of course. It's been a descriptive term for long long time, but as a diagnosis and I think it was more really after there was a Treatment available. It's one of these situations where it's almost like a treatment that's in search of a diagnosis, you know. So yeah so acid solution in search of a problem sort of yes, right exactly.

1 (17m 16s):
And also why are we treating shortness like it's a disease because when you look into it as researchers have there's no evidence tying being short to having a bad life studies show short kids get teased bullied. They're often treated as younger than they are but there's no direct connection between being small and failing at life. All right for instance did not end up depressed and alone living in a tiny cardboard box behind Bob's Big Boy. At least not because of my hide. Another thing. Dr. Allen said is that the use of synthetic growth hormone in kids is generally agreed to be safe.

1 (17m 60s):
But he said it just hasn't been on the market long enough for us to know yet. There could be an increased risk of cancer down the road one study and only one points to more instances of stroke among adults who took the drugs children. Thing is we won't really know how dangerous the stuff is until 30 or 40 or 50 years down the line also on average kids who take growth hormone might gain three inches a little less than half an inch per year. But that's average your hydrogen may vary a lot could be more could be less. I'll just note that less than a little less than half an inch a year would be a very sad title for a country song.

1 (18m 40s):
The darkest. Irony here is dr. Allen says the kids you'd think The drug the most kids are short parents are the ones who benefit the least and it's conceivable that there is some risks that we don't yet know about or just learning about you know, 20 years down the road that this completely healthy 10 year old is now been exposed to you know, for a benefit that we have a lot of difficulty, you know documenting. I mean that to me that's the conundrum, right? Not a conundrum for me the health effects are unknown benefits uncertain and even if you get taller, you're not necessarily happier than I'm not putting my kid on it not for a maximum 3 inches total not for a half inch a year.

1 (19m 30s):
Who would choose that for their kid? I decided to find out are you gonna call this growth hormone gate is that we're going to call it snappy. We should definitely do that. It's funny because I can't tell you any of these folks names either. They're in Southern California. I'll call the dad Jeremy. He's a doctor. He's five foot eight. The mom who I'll call Laura is 5 foot 4. She's a personal development coach. There are two kids Dylan and Marnie also not their real names Dylan's been taking growth hormone injections for five years. Him too. We asked Laura why they wanted to be anonymous, you know, it's a little embarrassing

3 (20m 7s):
most of his probably peers don't know is close friends. No, but you know for a girl's cute if she's short and petite or for a guy it kind of says something about your masculinity or you know, so I just wanted to protect him for whatever reasons short-term

1 (20m 24s):
long-term. They all live in a big beautiful house with a pool that contains what I'm fairly sure is a water polo goal Dylan's on the team. The living room is immaculate like the lobby of a luxury hotel when we got there. There was a dog grooming van sitting out front in which their dog was being groomed. She looked nice afterwards Laura's been worrying about Dylan size since he was a baby. He was born preemie sized even though she carried him full turn. He spent four or five days in the NICU and as he got older it just seemed like he was having a hard time catching up to his friends in the height Department. He was the smallest in his team photos. Its class. I was always an outlier.

1 (21m 4s):
So when she found out there was something that might help fix that just felt like the right call

3 (21m 10s):
to me. It was it was just a medical choice that it was never aesthetic. It just was more medical and I don't know

1 (21m 17s):
if it's interesting. We have slightly different views and perceptions. Again, this is Jeremy. He's a doctor so you'd expect him to come at this from a medical necessity point of view to and he does but he's totally upfront about his less Doctor Who reasons I just start up but I'm a guy I want him to be big and strong and if you can be bigger and stronger, so but to get to that the the risk factor had to be eliminated. And so what did what was the point where you were like well now we can start thinking about bigger and stronger because I am satisfied that whatever long-term studies they are looking for II it was there was a risk. I had to kind of take it at least it wasn't my life.

1 (21m 59s):
So it wasn't worth now. I'm just kidding. I'm just

3 (22m 3s):
Nice Punchy and this interview sir.

1 (22m 6s):
No, I it was a risk, you know, it's not easy making that decision, you know, like gosh I'm putting my son at risk for diabetes. My brother has diabetes. I see it just to point out the risk of diabetes from pediatric growth hormone use is more theoretical than anything else doctors monitor for it. But so far, there's no causal link. So there's a little bit of back of my mind like, oh boy. What did I just do to my son? Something might have happened. That would have been a reversible. Oh and so I would have just never forgive myself how that happened. There's no question. I was the back of my brain. I'm a doctor so I get it. I don't think it but II was I've worried about in the back of my brain. I just don't verbalize it but knock on wood fortunately.

1 (22m 47s):
He's been fine and all we've seen is the benefits better than find Jeremy says the drug seems to be working and he satisfied if I search my heart of hearts, I be at least for myself. I'd be dishonest if I said I didn't have superficial. Motivations exactly as you described maybe not set in those words, you know, a future leader more attractive to a mate but I mean who unless you're a giant who doesn't want to be taller. Right? Does it feel weird to be kind of like feeding into that like feeding into those those societal? Yeah those societal sort of clamoring for more.

1 (23m 29s):
No weirder than you're trying to look nice today. Why did you dress so nicely? You're giving into society looks like get some nice shoes on you got a collared shirt. And when you pick your glasses you pick the utmost ugly glasses. You could pick know you try to pick some nice glasses, right we all we all just some degrees. It's a continuum. I don't think there's anything wrong with that but would you have been sad if he had been Scott's hide? That's not the conversation. I offered to stand up for him. Yeah, don't do that. The word sad. I mean, you know, we would have always wondered maybe like could he have what would have happened?

1 (24m 10s):
But I mean, it does raise this question of like, you know in a fully pay to play Society do you end up with different? Tears of people some of whom have selected, you know characteristics that confer advantages or seem to converge vantage's I mean I get it this this smacks of the whole sat gate thing, right? This is all this whole let me game the system. Let me I want my child to get a 1600 sat. I want my child to go to Harvard it smacks of that and I get it but at the same time, I don't think it's all that Sinister like for us. We just didn't want him to be sitting below the steering wheel and and being made fun of or something.

1 (24m 52s):
That's kind of like which is where Jeremy and Laura's opinions about the whole thing line up a lot more Laura used to Blanche when people would ask if Dylan and his little sister were twins. She's two years younger and Laura hated that her son wore clothes made for boys two years younger, but all that's in the past. Now, this is Dylan 15 years old. He came home from school in the middle of the interview still wearing a school uniform. Polo shorts, he's five foot six. Now my producer Sean sensitive soul that he is at a stand back to back in the living room. The back of Scott's head is going right into your neck. So, you know, I wouldn't want to I wouldn't want to see you guys in an alley fight.

1 (25m 36s):
Wow, that's a little little to mean I thought we were Pals buddy. Here's the thing measuring yourself directly. We bodily against another human being it's not a natural situation. There's a 43-year old man standing back-to-back. The fifteen-year-old. I felt this almost Primal humiliation and just for a second. I thought did I miss out on something. I felt a little jealous. Lurid spread out the charts on the coffee table inches versus years villains whole history of growing up and up and up from elementary school on in a laggard Lee Parabola that takes off like a rocket around the time.

1 (26m 26s):
He started the growth hormone each dot is a measurement. You know, how I'm in the first height percentile for men in America Dillon started off parked between the 3rd and 5th percentile and Up nearly at the 50th almost average it made him feel proud because I saw each dot climbing and it was going up. It was only going up and that to me was like, okay, I'm getting taller, but I'm going to be a little sad that I can't be as tall as I wanted to be. I'd like to be around 510 or 511 for sure that way I'm a little bit above average. I've never thought about it that way what height do I want to be?

1 (27m 7s):
How average what? I like to be this demand side attitude about height was alien to me and standing there between this giant five-foot-six child's Mastodon like shoulder blades. I thought about what had brought me here underneath my indignation my short identitarian ism. Here's the thing. I've lost over a bit the downsides of being short. I took some hard punches to the stomach in elementary school. I often feel taken less seriously by taller people in professional situations. I prefer phone meetings for that. Very reason. I pretty much know that I've had friendships with women that might have been more than friendships. If I'd been a few inches higher off the dance floor.

1 (27m 47s):
I've watched the libido drain for my date size as we stand up from the restaurant Table after dessert. I've been judging these people these parents trying to check every Box by every Advantage but there was a moment a long time ago when my parents thought about putting me on growth hormone and I was little

3 (28m 7s):
littler and they didn't I have

1 (28m 10s):
this really strong memory of they're telling me they looked into it. We were in a car this would have been the mid-80s in Virginia. I remember an apple orchard on our left a bare ground on our right and my Telling me they considered it and decided

3 (28m 26s):
against it.

1 (28m 28s):
I remember thinking why are you telling me this? It's like the moment. I became sure the first time I really knew like it was official doctors had been consulted powerful elixirs considered maybe none of that should have come as a surprise. I'm the outlier amongst my siblings. My brother. Robert is six foot one. Even my little sister Holland is taller than I am. They take after my dad who at 511 is a full foot taller than my mom. In all these years we've never talked about that decision. Why didn't they want me to get taller? Why didn't they make the choice? Dylan's parents did I went home?

1 (29m 9s):
And I asked my mom about that conversation in the car.

3 (29m 12s):
I have no memory of this at all. How did that conversation come up? I mean, I'm driving you home from school and I go by the way,

1 (29m 20s):
you know, how moms have a way of making the pivotal chapters in your personal history seem less pivotal and more totally apocryphal. Yeah. It was that thing. My mom very convincingly debunked my big origin story of how I became short. The timeline was wrong. The location was wrong. The only true part was once upon a time. I found out I was short and I'm clearly more hung up on it that I thought I was. But Mom confirmed they did decide not to treat me and we must have talked about it back. Then. I wanted to know why they didn't treat me and the answer was pretty simple when I was about 10 my pediatrician sent me to an endocrinologist to check my growth hormone levels because I was small and doctors like to check every box.

1 (30m 5s):
So I got tested I was normal in terms of hormone levels anyway, and that's it. They didn't pursue it further. Also, my father was a pharmaceutical researcher who tested experimental medications. My mom was a nurse they know about this stuff. And this was right after the stories came out about the tainted growth hormone from cadavers. I'd just listen to those stories and it was kind of a gut thing. It was kind of like, well, it took him 25 years to figure that out that we had this issue took him 25 years. So my going to wait 25 years to find out Here's a really bad consequence of growth hormone, right mother synthetic and we couldn't couldn't foresee it and I had a healthy son who was thriving I thought and you know, he was sharp guy and why I didn't want to screw it up.

1 (31m 2s):
My parents were trying to protect me by doing nothing the same way Laura and Jeremy were trying to protect Dylan by doing something something Elemental. Making it bigger. But for my mom there's something else she doesn't think of what might have happened if she'd made me bigger. She thinks about what might have been lost if she

3 (31m 27s):
had it's always been interesting to me to see the jeans will out. You know what I mean? You know when you say wow, you do that and my dad did that, you know, it's like a physical thing that somebody does the way they attitude they have or the way they handle their hands. It's a No, it comes. Those are jeans coming out that that I like to see they're familiar to me, you know,

1 (31m 54s):
they're familiar to me too. I remind myself of people I've known my grandfather my uncle my mom. I've got their bodies. I'm built on their blueprints reliable blueprints that delivered several generations of tiny living things from primordial slime to this crazy risky present moment. That's no small thing. All I know is this is the box I came in and I like it in here. I

3 (32m 22s):
think

1 (32m 28s):
Scott Brown is a writer producer on The Who series Castle Rock is young adult novel about a super short kid who grows freakishly tall in a year is called Exile. Hello. I wish I was A little bit taller. I wish I was a baller. I wish I had a girl who looks good. I will call it which I had a rabbit in a hat with a back. I wish I was like 6:00 tonight so I can give it Leo. She could you don't know me but you know, she's gonna be fine. You know, I hear all the time everywhere I go and living in my dreams like a schema ways to make her mind coming up. I want something shrinks and shrinks and shrinks. It can undo a 900-page wah, and more about the power of tininess.

1 (33m 12s):
That's in a minute. There's a guy go public radio. when our program continues Support for This American Life comes from Squarespace providing designer crafted website templates that are mobile friendly e-commerce ready and customizable Squarespace websites offer analytics to help you grow in real time with free and secure hosting and award-winning customer service make your idea stand out with a new website from Squarespace start your free trial and receive a special offer on your first purchase at squarespace.com. American and use promo code American Squarespace think it dream it make it and from State Farm State Farm agents know that sometimes life throws everything at you at once like a fender bender when you're already late when it comes to auto and home insurance State Farm agents are ready to help.

1 (34m 8s):
You can talk to your State Farm agent via text over the phone in person or using the State Farm app, which is super handy with voice-activated. That let you see your bill get claim updates or call an agent and with more than 19,000 agents. There's one close to you find an agent at statefarm.com This American Life. I'm Ira Glass Today's Show Small Things Considered stories in defense of the little and the Lilliputian. We've arrived in Act 2 of our show act two. Let's give him nothing to talk about. David Gest mom has this story about something that got shrunk to exactly as small as something could possibly be shrunk with huge consequences that are playing at right now this very moment.

1 (34m 54s):
Here's David this thing that got made small. It's a tax a couple of years ago. The government said it 2-0 $0.00 Which makes what follows so remarkable, how could attack so small it doesn't actually exist cause any trouble but before I explain and since this show is about the importance of small things. Let me just confess here how much I love zero. It's unlike any other number in its capacity for Destruction 0 times anything is 0 no matter how big it always wins. And even better is dividing when I was a kid in math class. I'd like to put 1/0 into my calculator.

1 (35m 35s):
It would show E4 error because 1/0 there is no answer to that. It's undefined divided by any other number in your fine 1/2 for instance or 57 or 693. But put a zero in and it just blows up mathematicians call. This kind of situation is Singularity where the math is not well-behaved in fact, it stops making sense. There are singularities inside black holes, but I never heard of a real world example outside of that until December 14th last year a law that brought Healthcare at the millions of Americans has been struck down by a us judge judge has ruled it unconstitutional maybe remember this the judge in Texas ruled that the entire Affordable Care Act violated the US Constitution.

1 (36m 27s):
This is big news and it immediately got appealed but the signature domestic policy achievement of the entire. Obama presidency thing that right now is giving millions of Americans health insurance that whole thing. This judge was saying it was unconstitutional had to go. And the thing that said all this off a zero

3 (36m 48s):
last year Congress reduced the penalty tax for not having health insurance to zero the judge ruled that without let

1 (36m 54s):
me explain how zero could blow up an entire law when ObamaCare the Affordable Care Act was written almost a decade ago. It included this thing that people called the Mandate which basically said you have to have health insurance. And if you don't you gotta pay a fine in 2016, the average fine paid was a little over seven hundred dollars opponents. Health Care law took issue with that part saying the government can't just force people to buy something. They may not want all this went to the Supreme Court which ruled it was. Okay, because and this is key. The Mandate could be viewed as a tax. The government has lots of taxes. This is one of them which felt like the end of it and it was until this other thing happened that seemed unrelated in 2017.

1 (37m 41s):
Republicans passed their big tax cut bill. And one of the taxes in there that they cut this was just a sentence was the Mandate the find that you have to pay. If you don't have insurance they cut it to 0 it really does seem like most lawmakers in Congress did not understand that this one little change could be the basis for getting all 900 plus pages of the ACA ruled unconstitutional. I couldn't find any record of lawmakers even mentioning it in the floor debate or the news coverage. One person who did see that who put together how zero could undo the whole law was someone not in Washington at all a guy in Wisconsin Misha stealin who then was the state solicitor general?

1 (38m 23s):
I found him on Facebook his profile picture was from an ultimate frisbee tournament. He politely declined to comment but from legal filings, we know his basic argument Satan's logic was that if the tax is 0 then there is no tax and what you're left with in the law is his line that basically As people shall buy health insurance. That was okay as part of a tax like you shall buy health insurance or pay a penalty. But now the tax was Zero the text of the law was simply telling people to buy health insurance unconstitutional that is how attacks of zero ends up in a federal appeals court. Most of America is kind of in the courtroom to 18 red States on one side 16 blue states on the other.

1 (39m 6s):
I reached out to someone involved in the case, Nick Bagley professor. At the University of Michigan law school. I talked to him about the part of the case that I find so transfixing. Can I say the part that stood out to me? Yeah, I used to work in physics and it's like, you know, they call it a singularity like it's a 0 in the denominator like it creates a black hole Yeah. I mean you're putting your finger on one of vaguely to be clear. Thanks. The first judge got it totally wrong. He's worked on a brief filed in the appeals case and he's been writing about it man. He pointed out something. I honestly had not considered. You know, I've encouraged and others have Congress, you know, at least the House of Representatives to pass a bill that would set a one dollar tax. Oh, really?

1 (39m 46s):
Yeah, the house could have passed a bill that made this law go this whole lawsuit go away tomorrow. I mean, it wouldn't be it would be it would be the third John of a pen and you know, if the house passes it and the Senate doesn't want to pass it. Well, you know hang that around the Senate's neck in the next presidential election. Make it there Albatross to carry wait, wait, wait, hang on that would work right if they just so absolutely yeah. Absolute sense of doll case goes away if they set it to a dollar. Yeah. There's a bunch of different ways. You can do for Penny Penny to write a penny sure, but how can it matter that it's a dollar or zero like really really it can't it can't turn it shouldn't and again that you're putting your finger on. I mean, I understand that legally.

1 (40m 26s):
It might but it seems crazy also that it might

3 (40m 30s):
yeah, you know, that's one of the great things about the law

1 (40m 32s):
the great things. Yeah. Well, it didn't know what I mean. What is that is that if it seems crazy to you it Bubbly is and if the argument is too cute by half it probably is. I talked to Bagley back in July on the day that the appeals court heard the case. We listened together

3 (40m 51s):
online

1 (40m 53s):
the arguments. The lawyers made were all about standing severability Doctrine meaning of the word. Shall what did Congress intend when it set the tax to zero. It did not go well for the Affordable Care Act for Bagley side. You could tell from the judges questions bagley's exact words while we listened include things like Jesus, and this is really bad. This is really bad. And finally, this is about as bad as you could expect from an oral argument. Thank you. He was truly surprised. He thought the legal argument that zero could take down the whole law was quote week to the point frivolousness to Randy Barnett though.

1 (41m 37s):
This all seems totally logical Barnett is a professor at Georgetown law has been vocal in the other side. If the tax is zero Barnett says the Mandate is unconstitutional. He doesn't think the court can strike out just that one part of the law. So the whole thing has to go to me. It seems quite reasonable because it's Straightforward application of severability Doctrine as I understand it people on the other side feel like this case is an example of weird legal reasoning being used to get to a particular conclusion. Are there other legal decisions that look that way to you. Yeah, I would say that any decision that says that Congress has the power under its power to regulate commerce among the several states to short answer.

1 (42m 20s):
Yes, which is to say liberals have their examples of what they see as activist judges inventing pisar arguments. And so to conservatives and Libertarians like Burnett and everyone else he told me about this case that he argued before The Supreme Court and lost six to three the Court ruled that a woman in California couldn't grow medical marijuana. Own house in her own garden stake for own back pain because of the interstate commerce clause of the Constitution. That sounds a little crazy to me and yet those kinds of rulings happen all the time. Give me another one how much air time I going to get my ass Barnett when he made it the fact that this case is how we are deciding whether millions of Americans will have health insurance and that it all seem to stem in some way from the weird power of 0.

1 (43m 8s):
Does it seem odd to you that we are in this position? Define odd. What do you mean? It just seems odd that somehow there would be a difference between Congress setting a text to a penny and zero. Whenever you have a distinction, there's going to be marginal cases in which that distinction could make a difference in the distinction could look arbitrary. That's just the way the law works. It works out. It works that way all the time. You're speeding by the way when you go 36 miles an hour in a 35 mile an hour Zone, but why is 36 miles an hour? Why why is that a terrible speed when 35 miles an hour is perfectly, okay.

1 (43m 50s):
Feels a little different somehow. I mean you could say that I don't I'm not sure how to respond to that Tada. I'm not sure how to ask it either. It's your you know, your feelings are you're entitled to your feelings here are my feelings having big things like this decided in the courts and legal grounds that most people will never understand. It does not seem ideal to me. The appeals court is supposed to issue its ruling any day now. It seems quite possible. This thing is headed for the Supreme Court. It's like this little tax set to 0 as created a legal Wormhole with red States gathered on one side blue states on the other a Vortex of high-level legal math in the middle.

1 (44m 40s):
I worry it's going to suck us all into some other dimension will cross the Event Horizon from which there is no return. It'll tear our atoms apart. It'll tear us apart. Either that or a neatly typed opinion will come out some Tuesday Morning in June David Gest about him is the executive editor or a show.

1 (45m 35s):
Factory with the I can't see so we end our show today with this last story of small things that are anything but small from Lily Sullivan

3 (45m 45s):
when I was in my early 20s, I spent a lot of my time looking at job postings online and read the qualification section leadership skills self starter results-oriented and then I look at myself broke weird. Shy to the point of Silence. And miss the deadline which is when I stumbled on a story called the job application. It's by this writer Robert vawser the stories told in the form of a cover letter, but instead of selling himself. He just offers an honest assessment of who he is. Esteemed gentlemen, I am a poor young unemployed person large and difficult tasks. I cannot perform and obligations of A far-ranging Sort are too strenuous for my mind.

3 (46m 29s):
I'm not particularly clever first and foremost. I do not like to strain my intelligence over much. I'm a dreamer rather than a thinker a zero rather than a force dim rather than sharp. The passion to go far in the world is unknown to me. I remember thinking you're not supposed to tell people that stuff. He was being funny and mocking the whole song and dance. But at the same time he wasn't making it up. He needed a job. He ends the letter well, so now you know what sort of a person I am. I am sincere and honest and I'm aware that this signifies precious little in the world in which we live. So I shall be waiting esteemed gentlemen, you're respectful servant positively drowning in obedience.

3 (47m 15s):
I know almost nothing about this writer, but I loved him for writing this because the thing is feeling so worthless at that age. It was terrifying when your brain isn't orderly and results-oriented like an effective humans. I'd have a rough shift temping or waitressing people can be awful when you're at the bottom and I'd come home just dreading the rest of my life and he got that. I started reading more of his stuff. One of my favorites is a novel about boys in a school where they're training to be servants. He wrote in one thing. We pupils are all similar. We are small small all the way down the scale to utter worthlessness. One thing I do know for certain in later life.

3 (47m 58s):
I shall be a Charming utterly spherical zero. Robert mozer turns out he's swiss-born in 1878 and for a moment it looked like he was going to be the next big thing Kafka who was younger than him was a fan when Kafka came onto the scene one critic back then explained Kafka by saying. Hey, this guy's kind of like Robert Walser. And there was this delighted absurdity to his work. He poked fun at himself for being small, but there was always an edge to it worse than being weak or the people deluded enough to think they're great. So pompous.

3 (48m 38s):
He wasn't mean exactly more just entertained by their foolishness. I started to see the world that way too. But then one day a few years later, I was at a bookstore and I saw new Robert vawser book on the Shelf more of his work translated into English. I started reading the introduction and I had all this stuff. I hadn't known before about his life. It said the Vols are had spent the last third of his life in a mental hospital schizophrenia. He lived there for 27 years until he died. I was floored and so sad for him. This was the writer. I turned to as a roadmap to remind myself that there are people out there like me and they're fine.

3 (49m 20s):
And he was the best of our kind of people it freaks me out. Like that's what life did to him. It turns out Robert Vols are had a little early success but not much after that writers liked him but his books didn't sell well and he was predictably terrible at marketing himself after flailing for a while. He left the art scene in Berlin and moved back home to Switzerland. And once he's there his life starts falling apart. He couldn't really get his books published anymore. He starts ranting out single rooms month to month from old ladies reduces his possessions to single suitcase. He Happy alone all the time mentally shaky.

3 (50m 0s):
He get nightmares and stay up all night pacing and muttering to himself. Eventually, he checked himself into a mental hospital as 1929. He asks the staff to put him in the shared dorm because this breaks my heart. He's afraid to be alone. They diagnosed him with schizophrenia. He's there voluntarily at first but later he gets committed against his will Kicking and Screaming as they forced him into the car for the transfer. He spends the rest of his life in a Sanitarium. There's a story that when people encouraged him to write again. He said I'm not here to write. I'm here to be mad and the world forgot about him.

3 (50m 41s):
And then he died on Christmas Day actually in 1956. He goes for a walk outside of his Asylum and he collapses a couple kids find his body in a field of snow. Someone actually took a photo. Robert vawser is lying face up one arm outstretched dark clothes against White's know he's had a few feet away. The book I was looking at had something else something Eerie. I didn't know what to make of it. After Vols are died a nurse in one of his hospitals came forward with these strange scraps of paper. His sister had a shoebox full of them to hundreds of little scraps.

3 (51m 24s):
Use post cards business cards old calendar Pages ripped in half. And those little shreds were just covered in Aunt like pencil markings dense little rows of tiny slashes and ticks packed on to shreds of paper. Everyone thinks it's just madman scroll and they put the papers away. A few months later his friend who for years was one of the only people who really visited him in the hospital publishes a blown-up photo of one of these scraps in a Swiss literary magazine undecipherable. He writes a product of vultures gets a friend. Yeah, but when the magazine comes out a grad student writes in saying wait, I can read this.

3 (52m 4s):
I think those scratchings are letters. He got the papers and spent months staring at 24 pages trying to decipher the tiny handwriting. It turned out to be an entire novel, but there were still hundreds more scraps. It wasn't until the 1980s that someone tackled the rest of them another grad student named Baron had eshte 21 at the time. He'd actually been on his way to becoming a doctor but when he discovered Robert Falls ER he stopped that life in its tracks switch to literature to spend more time with Robert balzer

1 (52m 36s):
because I was normal literature normal texts novels. I think most of them are boring but Robo advisor is he is melancholic. He's funny. He is writing about everything and about nothing and I started to read him when I was 17 and I read him almost every day since then

3 (53m 5s):
he talked to the archive where the shreds are being kept and they agreed to let him see them try to decipher some more. And when he sees them for the first time he's stunned. The writing is microscopic each letter just a speck about two millimeters at first and as the years go by they get smaller down to one millimeter these tiny Bold characters like miniature Japanese calligraphy,

1 (53m 30s):
but the really difficult fact is the density of lines because there's no distance between the

3 (53m 37s):
lines right? Because if the letters are a millimeter The pencil marking must be half a millimeter.

1 (53m 43s):
Yes. Yes, and this is very very difficult because the pencil is not as sharp as it should

3 (53m 51s):
be he brought that up a few times like couldn T sharpen his pencil

1 (53m 56s):
and this this is the problem because you you never know. What letter is there and how many so but if you can read you can read it because you don't spell it letter for letter, but you Identify the form of the word,

3 (54m 14s):
you can't identify the individual letters, but somehow when you look at them all together, sometimes you can tell what it says a word will reveal itself. He started working on it full-time with a partner. They did it typewriters across from each other in a little room filled with cigarette smoke vent over these magnifying glasses called thread counters and he'd stare at the words when they get stumped on a word which happen constantly they have this system where they'd rattle off gibberish and random syllables Fahrenheit and the other guy would work separately on a scrap for a while. Then they compared their guesses if they had come to the same conclusion. They decided it was right.

3 (54m 58s):
The project was supposed to take four years. It ended up taking 20 Baron hard did the last six years alone. He'd started when he was 21 and finished when he was 41 and when he'd finally finished those 526 scraps turned into six volumes of work the micro scripts mm some pages of Stories Comedy little dramas. A novel that a robber who doesn't steal much of anything. I had pictured this writing a sad little notes to No One But when you read it, it's like vultures back happily throwing stones like he writes. I've no use for these graspers Pleasure Seekers overlooked life's true Pleasures.

3 (55m 41s):
They aren't serious which makes them boring and they can't help being bored with me since I'm bored with them. Something Scholars have figured out balls are wrote most of these scraps before the Asylum. So this romantic idea of one man alone writing his masterpieces while locked away. It seems like it didn't happen that way and it seems like he probably wasn't schizophrenic Baron had to studied all the medical records father's own doctor thought he was fine and should go home psychiatrist who study him now don't think he was schizophrenic either didn't really have the symptoms. Also that thing he's famous for saying I'm not here to write.

3 (56m 24s):
I'm here to be mad people who study him think he likely didn't say that that it's a meth and that the truth is he got trapped there for the most infuriatingly mundane reason medical bureaucracy. Once he lost his rights. He couldn't get them back couldn't sign himself out and during the 27 years. He was there A lot happened in the world World War II the circle of writers who might have His work people might have remembered that he was there had scattered their books were banned. They were living in Exile or dying violently kafka's family members were killed in the Holocaust. So some writer. No one read anymore who no one ever really knew in the first place people had other things to worry about one scholar told me she thinks that at some point Vols were probably could have gotten out of the hospital if he wanted to but he stopped trying I wondered why he spent so many years writing things that even he probably couldn't read.

3 (57m 28s):
He explain to someone in those years when he was really depressed when Publishers didn't want his work anymore. He had bad writer's block. He describes it as a cramp in his brain and he explains that writing this tiny hurts so we can take the cramp in his brain and put it into his hand instead and once he does that his mind is clear and he can think again, On a page of a calendar he'd cut into pieces he writes about why he did it all in pencil one day he figured out that a pen made him nervous. All those mistakes cross outs in ink, but if you used a pencil instead and labored over this tiny writing he explains this labor looked to me like a pleasure as it were I felt it would make me healthy a smile of satisfaction would creep into my soul each time like a smile of amicable self derision.

3 (58m 19s):
It seems to me the pencil. Let me work more dreamily. Peacefully cozily contemplatively, I believe that the processor just described would blossom into a peculiar form of happiness

1 (58m 30s):
that is handwriting was small is in close connection with his convictions about life. And what is interesting in life. He was not interested in great importance and things which are big and everybody knew about the interesting things are the small. All things

3 (58m 53s):
the idea it had about his life in the Asylum how he died? How awful it all seemed to me. Bernhard doesn't see it. That way. He studied father his whole life every letter and document even bought the house were Falls or once lived and he lives there now, he knows his life inside and out and he thinks it's not tragic. He says Vols are usually seems kind of okay not happy exactly the content life without success. Us Falls or once wrote can also be beautiful his was there's power in being okay with being nothing. It's honest and you can't Crush nothing.

3 (59m 35s):
He made his life smaller and smaller until he almost didn't exist anymore. And then he didn't an utterly spherical zero.

1 (59m 50s):
Billy Sullivan is one of the producers of our show at the details about vultures life and work and her story came from Susan vernadsky. Thanks is bronowski. She is translated eight of his books is just written the first ever English biography of all sir for the new information. She's uncovered for about about a year from Yale University press All the Small Things true care truth brings Weber has created a by Ella Baker but the people who put together today show and could be matter with me and got wounded Shiva shankara Whitney.

1 (1h 0m 31s):
Did you film your drumming Damon grave Jessica was not Stone House and Catherine my Mondo been feeling naughty Raymond Robbins. Amina was ship Lily Sullivan question was for tell him at Tierney and Auntie Updike or managing editors Diane. Whoo, our executive editor is David Gest abound the voice of short throat and are Her story was actor Jennifer Brand L special. Thanks today to Lindsay Meek and Morgan at the Art Institute of Chicago Josh Blackman que Le Conte James Spring a secure and Chris Jackson Louis ass been freed kutsu. Swain custom bomb Matt, Frasca, Martha little and Studio 360 our website This American Life dot-org This American Life has delivered a public radio stations by PRX the public radio exchange support for This American Life comes from the Lagunitas Brewing Company feeling stories and songs with Lagunitas IPA and Of course committed give me the pub in public radio.

1 (1h 1m 19s):
Find out more won't you had lugs Vitas.com. This is always dry programs co-founder mystery Mallet Tia, you know, he only watches Tick-Tock videos now, that's it. Just Tick Tock mobile little should normal text notes. I think most of them are boring. I'm Ira Glass back next week for more stories of This American Life. Carry Me Home Carry Me next week on the podcast of This American Life the nine-year-old boy who's like the king of the tent city that sits right across the Mexican border in Matamoros, but there are thousands of people with no proper supply of food water toilets people get kidnapped by the cartels a nurse who works in refugee camps around the world told me.

1 (1h 2m 21s):
This is the worst one. She's ever seen every G camps that we don't call refugee camps right on a country's doorstep. next week on the podcast for new local public radio station