1 (1s):
Support for This American Life comes

2 (3s):
from quip. One of the first electric toothbrushes accepted by the American Dental Association quip has a built-in two-minute timer that pulses every 30 seconds to remind you to switch sides and Sonic vibrations for healthier gums. Go to get quip.com / American and get your first refill pack for free

1 (23s):
and from third love

2 (25s):
third love uses data points generated by millions of women who have taken their fit finder quiz, To design bras with a perfect fit and premium feel to find your perfect fitting bra and get a discount on your first purchase. Go to third love.com / American A quick warning. There are curse words that are unbeaten today's episode of the show. If you prefer a beeped version, you can find that at our website This American Life dot-org. Darwin's 9 it is a kid who I don't know people just give him stuff when he made my coworker Aviva. He was playing with a soccer ball. Somebody gave him eating a taco. Somebody else gave him Darwin's mom is explaining all this.

1 (1m 6s):
That's all. Can you just describe what just happened?

2 (1m 14s):
I've no idea. She says

1 (1m 16s):
a man as you're talking about that people just give him things walked by and give you how much did he give you? Yeah. Wow, the as

2 (1m 24s):
peasants 10 pesos implicated. Why do you give you that V Bassam during give us a little shrug like yeah. What can I say

1 (1m 32s):
only humans? I guess I'll be in the morning

2 (1m 35s):
because he thought I was asking for a coin his mom says he's just sitting there

1 (1m 39s):
eating your like King of the camp is he's like and Riedel campamento.

2 (1m 45s):
Yes. I am the king of the camp. He says Is it Beavis? It's a with Darwin's mom Elizabeth. He runs off for 15-20 minutes at a time and then returns with cash.

1 (1m 55s):
All right, young me your Santo dios think I think dollar

2 (1m 60s):
five dollars. She hugs him. Right? Don't be touchy Darwin runs to the tent to pull out all the money. He saved and show Viva $279 a huge wad of cash which for context the living in a makeshift tent camp in Matamoros, Mexico. Over the border from Brownsville, Texas, and I mean like immediately on the other side nestled against the US and the Rio Grande of the customs Office. You can see the big red arches the Border Station and so close over 2,500 people living here. Hoping to get asylum in the US there when his mom came here from had or has two hundred seventy nine bucks here is huge. Most people even the migrants who came with a little money saved.

2 (2m 41s):
I've been here so long they spent it all our family sends his money his mom says lots of families do that. But he brings in so much more than they send

1 (2m 50s):
is inteligente

2 (2m 51s):
zero. Have you then follows Darwin as he walks from the tents to the long line of cars? It's waiting at the border to cross into the United States. He's a happy looking kid with neatly cut hair and a big smile really cute during gives a fist bump to the Fruit Stand guy cops the man selling corn on the back say hello nods to the half-dozen other vendors working on remember he's nine my ass one woman to the camp about him. She was like, oh, I'll tell him Moto the earthquake. That's a finger in the are asking for one coin. He says that's move as for a quiet and then hopefully they'll give you more than a coin and in fact a car with three women waves him over the woman in the passenger seat rows down her window and hands him a dollar.

1 (3m 32s):
It has yes. Lavanya.

2 (3m 34s):
Thanks bless you. Are you Cuban? I asked her because I knew it from your accent. She's like right you thought I was from Cuba and they laugh woman asked his name and Bowser she says she likes his hair. I like your hair. He says he reaches out to stroke her hair straight and blond like your hair cuz it's pretty says she laughs and claps her hands. Look at what a flirt he ended up

1 (4m 3s):
being

2 (4m 8s):
my God. You have a girlfriend. you you Darren runs to his mom's watching all this gives you the dollar both of them and the thousands of other people camped here at the border to be clear the trying to follow the rules and enter the United States through a border station and formally apply for Asylum. It used to be you'd show up. If you pass the basic interview with most people did you'd wait in the US for your day in court, but now it's all different and the Trump Administration is remain in Mexico policy you get turned back to weight in Texaco this policy still pretty new really kicked in full force this summer, but it's profound change with massive consequences.

2 (4m 60s):
One of them the size of this Camp which didn't exist before President Trump which grows in size every day and all across Mexico and cities just on the other side of the Border there now tens of thousands of people according to the Department of Homeland Security stranded under this policy and shelters on the streets. And Anna camp. It's like this one sent by our government without much of a plan for where how they live. Once I got to Mexico. This camp for instance is totally improvised long rows of Scruffy blue and white and gray tents over 700 of them donated by do-gooder groups and churches in America is a comb intense meant for weekend camping that designed for rain and directs on and cold for months at a time.

2 (5m 45s):
There's no regular water supply here volunteer groups from Over the Border in Brownsville Hollander. 3,000 bottles of water each day. And these are just little sixteen-ounce bottles. Like you would buy with your lunch at a fast-food place. There's no proper sanitation just five toilets for over 2,500 people yellow porta-potties, which get precisely as gross as you would imagine the father's here when David Bach he's told me the Windows 8 year old daughter needs the bathroom. No pussy condo think ordinarily would score after one you is, you know people

1 (6m 17s):
well, you know if I have some money then all and see if I can find her another bathroom to use but if there isn't any then I'll take her out into the woods into the mountain so that she can you know, use them use the bathroom do her business and then we'll go down to the river to wash up but a thumbs up as soon as not being a bit on the sinkhole and honestly with the amount of people using them in five hours, they'll be totally full and people still keep on going to use them especially women because as you can imagine, you know, like there's a bunch of men out there in the It's using the bathroom and I don't want to be surrounded by that.

2 (6m 54s):
There's a nurse at the camp named Helen Perry who runs a very small relief group with very Grand sounding name Global Response management was volunteer. She started a medical tent camp David after the Battalion aid station stewardess it up back when she was in the Army. Anyway, I mentioned all this to Helen that this father and daughter were going up in the woods just like oh, yeah, I knew that. Yeah,

1 (7m 17s):
and then when it rains all that rainwater washes down there or it washes into the hard spaces in the camp and they get Infectious diarrhea. So

2 (7m 26s):
are you seeing a lot of infectious diarrhea? Yes.

1 (7m 30s):
Most everyone here has some form of GI something or other, you know different types of tapeworms and ringworms and and the problem is is that you treat it and then they come right back out and get it again

2 (7m 42s):
actually met L win because he was Helens first patient of the day, he and his daughter both had pinkeye for bathing in the Rio Grande, which is not clean Helen trying to organize a fix for that.

1 (7m 53s):
So this is actually one of the areas that we're talking about bringing in a water purification system. So the Rio Grande is like right down there hola. And so what we want to do is put in a water purification system right over here run out run a hose out into the water. It'll suck up the water purify it and they'll have their own water source,

2 (8m 13s):
and and you're the one organizing

1 (8m 14s):
this. Yeah, so not a

2 (8m 16s):
government. No, no the UN. Nope. Just you a

1 (8m 19s):
person. I've never people like have you done water? And I'm like no, but like I'll Google it

2 (8m 26s):
I have to say this is the thing that hit me hardest in Matamoros. You have thousands people stuck there. Right on the border to Big government's the United States and Mexico one of them, of course a lot richer than the other and nobody's looking after these people the food water and shelter except a bunch of volunteers who raised their hands and said we cannot ignore those. Indiana good afternoon. Today we have volunteers from Indiana either Indianapolis from Indianapolis really far.

1 (9m 1s):
I'll go see nobody else there is to cook for you part again

2 (9m 7s):
because we're all Brothers

1 (9m 8s):
right?

2 (9m 15s):
Let's say thanks with the round of applause. Eight, very nice. Ladies from Indiana and fluorescent green t-shirts start serving food out of aluminum foil trays food, 4,000 people it cost $1,900 which they raise back home in 20 dollar donations as a paid for their own fights and everything and oppressively competent group that calls itself team Brownsville started by a bunch of teachers all volunteer as organized as so different bunch of people shows up five nights a week with food as a pay for a modern Morris restaurant to deliver hundreds of breakfast each day. We today is fresh but very north of the border and very plain slices of ham and cheese on white bread tangerines grapes, baby.

2 (9m 56s):
Carrots, everybody. We asked about the food though. It's but I didn't have to say how great it

1 (10m 0s):
is where Sarika

2 (10m 3s):
it's tasty. This guy tells a

1 (10m 5s):
Viva comida, Rika Rika

2 (10m 9s):
is tasty, right? This is the woman next to him. Oh sure a very tasty. She says soon as the beaver walks away The Interpreter who was with us for the day. Gabby Munoz over here is what happens

1 (10m 20s):
next and he's like well, she asked me how good the food was and I said it was good. But what the fuck else was I supposed to say

2 (10m 32s):
generally they tried to get the volunteers out of the camp by Nightfall because Mount Morris isn't safe. The cartels are here city has one of the highest kidnapping rates in Mexico, according to the US state department. Its web page by Matamoros says murder carjacking and sexual assault. Common gang gun battles are widespread. Anybody here is at high risk. Not far from where they serve the food like just 20 feet or so from the actual Border Station. Well named Jenny and her husband and her daughter set up their tent asked her if she chose that spot because it seemed like the safest closes into the Border like that

1 (11m 6s):
see in myself. Buddha

2 (11m 9s):
said yes explained that she and her husband and daughter had been kidnapped last City. They were in way and Reynosa Mexico.

1 (11m 16s):
It was in Reynosa and we were kidnapped for 15 days. What up or gave us

2 (11m 21s):
the story the family in the cartel. The house they were held in but she does a man quietly approaches and just kind of hovers nearby listening and she says a trust a trust a trust look behind you covers your face.

1 (11m 41s):
Like a lot of this

2 (11m 43s):
can't talk about this he's behind.

1 (11m 46s):
That little so

2 (11m 49s):
we switch the subject that goes away a journalist is in this Camp a lot confirmed that he was a cartel guy. How much violence are is against people in the camp is not clear. The nurse Helen Perry. Is it about people being kidnapped from the camp but that's hard to confirm and she told me this story

1 (12m 7s):
when I first showed up in the camp a woman came up to me and asked me if we would be bringing in condoms because when she got sexually assaulted again, she wanted to be able to ask her attacker to wear a condom. So she wouldn't get pregnant

2 (12m 22s):
in a relief work Helen's been to lots of places where migrants and refugees. Stranded like this but the security issues here like a predictable food and water sanitation five toilets with the should be a hundred twenty-five. No proper tense for people

1 (12m 37s):
when I first saw it, I was literally just dumbfounded because I've seen Refugee situations like this. I've been to Bangladesh. I've seen Cox bizarre. I've been to Iraq. I've seen the IDP camps. I've seen the refugee camps from Syria. I did as a source. Yeah, I would definitely say that this is the worst if at a bare minimum for a lack of humanitarian accountability for what's happening to these people you mean that that nobody's keeping a

2 (13m 6s):
count of who is here and who has and who goes in and who goes out

1 (13m 8s):
who goes and who goes out who goes missing

2 (13m 11s):
the proper refugee camp. She says like United Nations camp that have that a big tall fence. Somebody keeping track of who comes in and out when we asked Mexican officials about conditions in this Camp. They said they aren't helping the 2,500 people here. Because they don't want a permanent Tent City in the spot. They want people to move to government shelters and United Nations said they won't step in as the Mexican Government invites them to step in United States whose policies landed people here in the first place has also donated five million dollars to house them in Mexico. Maya doesn't go to tent camps like this one, but two the official Mexican government shelters. It's enough money to shelter 8,000 people. We sent way more people than that back across the border over 57,000 under the remain in Mexico policy pause another 21,000 who immigration officials haven't even begun to process.

2 (14m 4s):
We've told them systems backed up. You should sit in a waiting list stay in Mexico, and we get to hear cases in a few months. These are mostly people who in the past before President Trump would have been allowed into the United States to wait for their Asylum court dates here. It's so many People are pushing back across the border resulting in refugee camps that we don't call refugee camps right on our country's doorstep today. We try to understand what this new policy means for the people. We sent across the border. We also hear from us officials who sent them there. We're not feeling so great about it themselves from WBEZ Chicago says American life. I'm Ira Glass stay with us taekwon.

2 (14m 49s):
Goodbye Stranger. So let's start today with the US officials on the front lines is job under remain in Mexico to send people back. Lots of them have been resigning saying no that's actually not my job was Angeles Times Reporter Molly O'Toole. Dr. A bunch of them

1 (15m 7s):
before the remain in Mexico policy began and upended the Asylum system and completely change what it is to be an asylum officer. Here's how the job used to work. When a Central American showed up at the u.s. Mexico border and said, Let me in. I'm afraid of going back to my country. That's where the Asylum officer came in the officer did something called a credible fear screening to check if the person was likely to face harm or death if the u.s. Sent them back home. If there's even a chance that they would the Asylum officer would let them into the United States to wait for a court date or an immigration judge would make the final call Doug Stevens says people don't understand how hard the job is at the time all this started.

1 (15m 50s):
He was an asylum officer in San

2 (15m 52s):
Francisco inside have people come into my office and my job essentially is tell me the worst things that have happened to you you have an hour ago and then I'll decide if you're telling me the truth and I'll decide if you get to stay you are expected to be were really to do the job. Well need to be an expert in the political cultural social and economic situations in Numeral countries around the world and you're expected to be a human lie detector all at once.

1 (16m 28s):
President Trump talks about Asylum itself as if it's fraud. He says it's a hoax a big fat con job that people come in with fake Asylum claims that Asylum officers just let everyone through and then asylum-seekers never show up for their day in court that it's a border wide 2,000 mile loop hole. And it's true the most people do pass that first step with an asylum officer and enter the United States, but there's a good reason for that. It's built into u.s. Asylum law a common-sense humanitarian idea. We don't want to send people back to situations where they'd get tortured or killed. The legal term is non-refoulement. And so US law set the bar low if there's basically any chance an asylum Seeker could get killed or harmed the officers supposed to let them into the u.s.

1 (17m 16s):
Doesn't need a lot of proof or evidence at that point later when they get before an immigration judge. And by the way, the majority do show up there, they need proof and most of them get rejected. Even before President Trump took office less than 15% per year. God Asylum. That's because most people don't meet the specific criteria in the law or don't have enough evidence or it doesn't check out all the Asylum officers I've ever spoken with see it as their job to weed out the fakers the people who don't really need protection the ones who are just trying to game the system. Oh my God, like here's where I'm gonna be real with you.

1 (17m 56s):
This is an asylum officer. We're calling Ursula. This is Her voice, she's afraid of getting fired. So we had an actor copy what she said as closely as possible. The fraud hat is like happening on a scale that that's huge. We're talking like hundreds of people a month. I interviewed three Asylum officers for this story in all three said the groups that have been the primary target of President Trump's immigration policies. They actually aren't the main ones committing fraud. It's not the central Americans. It's not the Middle Eastern people. It is the Indian people and the Chinese people they all have the same bullshit story about getting beaten with hockey sticks three times because they're part of a Sikh party and the police told them they're going to jail them if they ever Bad mouth the ruling party ever again bullshit just happy they all just happen to do the same thing and suffer the same fate even though there's absolutely no confirmation in any media that any of this persecution is happening and studies done by our Department of State counterparts in the country are straight up like this is not a real thing.

1 (19m 9s):
The Chinese are running a similar scam with Christian

2 (19m 12s):
claims. In the

1 (19m 19s):
fall of 2018 Asylum officers started hearing about these big changes coming the policy that was first called remain in Mexico and then later migrant protection protocols MPP, but the Asylum officers who were going to have to implement this thing. They didn't know any of the details of how they were supposed to do it. It was all shrouded in so much secrecy. This is another Asylum officer. We're calling her an We used an actor here to to protect her identity. Over the next few weeks and starts picking up around the office and some of her colleagues were being called in quietly and asked to go to the Border in San Diego and instead of the credible fear screenings. They'd always done they seem to be doing something entirely different under MPP a whole new kind of interview with different rules.

1 (20m 7s):
She knew she was going to have to start doing them too. So she pulled aside a co-worker who'd already been sent to the Border. I was asking her. Hey, like what's what's the training? Like? What is this? And she was like, I'm not allowed to talk to you about it. Another Asylum off. Yeah, is that one who you'd like consider a friend or just sort of like professional colleague good colleague good colleague someone that we had mutual trust for sure and then was told was brought in by a supervisor. For like a special brief about about it before I was going to start doing these interviews and was told here's the skinny on it and don't tell anyone.

1 (20m 47s):
Why? Because I think they knew that it was legally dubious and suspect and they wanted to keep the the leak to a minimum the leak being a major policy roll out that was going to change Asylum. Yeah, that's really that's the leak. Yeah, two months go by before they do a formal training session with the full Asylum core and it's just a PowerPoint. Here's our selection hands were going up and being like wait. How is this legal? Or how are we going to be doing this? And how do we know how this works? All three of these style Mobsters? I talked to said that the presentation left them with lots of questions including the biggest one.

1 (21m 30s):
How is this legal these officers knew better than almost. Anyone how dangerous Mexico is and this policy seemed designed to send tons of people back to Mexico. It seemed to be in direct contradiction with us Asylum law, which says that at the very least we can't send people back to a situation where they get Harmed or killed we can't violate the principle of non-refoulement and the response was like, I'm just the messenger bringing this down from HQ. And this is the PowerPoint. They gave us I was like well if you don't even care about Double-checking that this is legal and you're just the messenger as you say, you're a fucking asshole, you know, all three officers say they raised concerns and got roughly the same response.

1 (22m 19s):
Just get out there and do your job what they found out soon enough was just how radically changed the new MPP interviews were from the old credible fear screenings. For starters not everyone would get an interview only the people who volunteered that they were scared to go back to Mexico would if they got an interview under MPP Asylum Seekers would have to prove that they'd be harmed in Mexico not their home country and not just any harm. They can't just be threatened by gangs or the police. They have to be threatened by gangs or police or whoever because of some very specific reasons laid out in US law because of their nationality race religion politics or I'm part of a particular social group like lgbtq and they'd have to show that The Mexican government like a cop or an official was unable or unwilling to protect them and the Asylum Seeker couldn't just say all this happened.

1 (23m 14s):
Like they could under credible fear screenings. Now, they need to prove it. It's like as Asylum Seekers were traveling through Mexico fleeing for their lives. They should have been Gathering evidence of all the screwed up things happening to them. They're making a paper trail. And they should have had all of this evidence on them, right then right after crossing the border which of course is next to Impossible, especially because they had no idea any of this was required Doug's all this happening and wanted nothing to do with it. So we tried to keep his head down to try and avoid having to do these interviews hoping the courts would kill MPP. But they didn't by June MPP returns had skyrocketed and it was all hands on deck for the Asylum core.

1 (24m 1s):
Doug couldn't Dodge it anymore and I got the email it said you're doing MPP interviews today. So

2 (24m 8s):
I had a father and son son. I think was preteens 11 or 12. They're fleeing on under us because of violence and other problems didn't talk about that much because it doesn't matter for the purpose of MPP right? I'm focused only on why they're afraid to go back to Mexico.

1 (24m 31s):
Of course the guy in his son don't understand why they're even talking about Mexico. They don't understand any of this at all, the interview continued. So he had

2 (24m 42s):
tried to find a place to live there had tried to get a work permit in Mexico and was essentially denied and as their transiting he's talking about You know, encountering cartels and witnessing other migrants

1 (25m 4s):
being murdered and tortured in front of

2 (25m 7s):
son. And fleeing and barely getting away, you know while death threats are being shouted at him. And you know talking about his son having nightmares for weeks because of this. And then they get stopped by the police. And the police take all of their money their cell phones. And because I can't get them to say these magic

1 (25m 37s):
words like yeah, they threaten me because I'm

2 (25m 40s):
Honduran but that's all they had to say, but they don't know that right.

1 (25m 46s):
Because I'm Honduran those would be the magic words that would put them in a protected category. They were targeted because of their nationality though, even if the father had said because I'm Honduran. They probably still would have been sent back to Mexico because odds are he didn't have any evidence proving that any of this happened Doug. He did with the policy told him to do he sent them back to Mexico. The old credible fear screenings usually took an hour or less these MPP interviews can last for five six hours.

1 (26m 28s):
When I asked these Asylum officers to describe what these interviews are like for them for the migrants in front of them Ursula gave the most Vivid picture. She told me about the very first MPP interview. She did a family from El Salvador two parents and two kids. She had a script she had to stick to the family was exhausted and traumatized and totally unprepared. You're put into a cell you're separated from your kids and your wife. You have no idea what's going on because you thought today you were going to be interviewed about El Salvador and you were going to get to enter the United States. A couple hours later. They lead you into this freezing cold cell where they chain your hands to a table in handcuffs and someone is sitting across from you who doesn't speak your language and starts talking to someone in the phone who starts translating to you that you're going to talk about Mexico.

1 (27m 27s):
You smell like shit because you've been living in a shelter, you know without any running water for a month and a half. Plus you've traveled all the way across Central America to get there and you don't understand why someone is talking to you about Mexico. This interview goes on for an hour and a half and the person keeps pausing it so they can talk to someone on the computer which they say is their supervisor and another guard leads your wife in that you haven't seen in the last 12 hours into the interview room, and you can you know, brush her hand as she passes by you're so happy to see See her because you've been separated and you have no idea what's going on.

1 (28m 10s):
So where are my children? I don't know sir. I'm sure they'll be fine. Your wife goes through a similar interview, but she keeps being confronted about the answer. She's giving because they're different from yours and the officer can understand why this story varies so differently between two people who experienced it half an hour passes before her children are brought into the room and then the officer has to Talk to a ten-year-old boy about whatever his parents said and then confront the 10 year old boy on inconsistencies between his story and his parents story. And then the wife is like when am I going to see my husband again the officers?

1 (28m 51s):
Like I have no idea let them know if you need to use the bathroom Ursula made the case that the family shouldn't get sent back to Mexico and to her shock her supervisor agreed. In fact, she happened to walk outside the moment the family got released. And they've got their backpacks on they're holding hands. She thought maybe this won't be so bad. But that was the last time the very next interview a woman told her over and over. She was afraid of being raped and killed in Mexico Ursula believed she was going back to a place where that was very possible. But because the woman couldn't name a specific person who desalter Ursula had to send her back since then.

1 (29m 32s):
It's essentially been no laughter. No laughter. No, Asylum officers told me that even when they find one of those unicorn cases where they check off all the boxes and recommend not returning to Mexico their supervisors overrule them. And told me and my producer Nadia Raymond about one Asylum Seekers case where their attacker even spelled out their motive and it still didn't fly. It was basically a situation where there was a really clear connection to the nationality like the persecutor had like really sad like I am harming you because of this nationality and your nationality and the harm was really really severe it was Definitely torture and it was really clear that the police like weren't going to do a thing about it didn't care at all.

1 (30m 26s):
And the supervisor rejected it while it did they say why they said we can't show that if this individual went back to Mexico the persecutor would be able to locate them. So the standard today is upside down from what it used to be in a credible fear instead of let's err on the side of letting people in because we don't want anyone to be tortured or die under MPP. The standard is almost impossibly high. So almost nobody gets in the Department of Homeland Security says only about 960 people interviewed have not been sent back to Mexico ultimately of a little more than 47,000 MPP cases registered as of October with about Seven thousand of those still pending of those only 11 people have been granted Asylum or some other kind of relief according to Syracuse University which tracks all this using government statistics 11, and that's what the policy was meant to do the administration credits MPP for a Sharp drop in the numbers coming to the Border Mark Morgan the acting head of Customs and Border Protection calls it a game changer and absolutely successful.

1 (31m 42s):
It only took Doug two days and five interviews to go home after work and pull out the law books. He's a lawyer. He actually owned a beat-up copy of the immigration and nationality act. The law hundreds of pages long that makes up the foundation of the u.s. Immigration system. He grabbed that off his bedroom shelf along with a few of his other books from law school. He printed out a bunch of court cases and Supreme Court decisions with more cases pulled up on his computer screen. In the middle of all of this was his pain and white legal PAD as an attorney. He wanted to get his feelings about MPP how much worse had felt compared to everything else they did down in writing he worked for hours and he wrote down seven bullet points.

1 (32m 24s):
The main ways. He thought MPP was illegal. Once he saw the list laid out there on the line white paper, Doug knew what to do the next day. He went to tell his supervisor. He wasn't going to do any more MPP interviews. His response

2 (32m 39s):
was I know these interviews are Hardware all required to do them. That's why we're trying to spread it out. It's you know rolling basis etcetera Etc and you know at that point There's like this this moment where I could I could have just said

1 (32m 59s):
you're right. I know the

2 (32m 60s):
socks and gone back and I paused and I told him you'd understand. I'm not doing these interviews in like days. Like what do you mean? You're not doing these interviews and I was like, no that's like I think they're legal to definitely a moral and I'm not doing them.

1 (33m 24s):
His boss was stunned. He didn't really seem to know what to say eventually he told him he was probably going to have to write him up somehow to start disciplinary proceedings Doug went home that night and decided to escalate he went back to his legal pad.

2 (33m 39s):
I essentially right Legal memo explaining all of the reasons that I thought it was illegal and why is refusing to do it? And then on that Monday, I emailed that to all of the administration in San Francisco and the two supervisors that were involved and the disciplinary proceedings

1 (34m 1s):
and then nothing nothing happened instead of sparking some kind of rebellion, or at least forcing a confrontation. It's crickets. So we took it. It a step further. He sent his memo to a senator's office. Then he dropped his goodbye email attached is my mouth and sent it out office-wide to all of San Francisco Asylum about 80 people and her representative of the union for Asylum officers across the country and with that Doug shut down his work computer and walked out. He quit

2 (34m 34s):
they make one change and everyone in the office is like, oh this is terrible, but we'll figure it out and then make another change. This is terrible. But but I need my job. I'm going to do it even if I don't want to and I'll complain about it. I'll complain about the work and I'll complain about the hours the end of the day. I'm going to do it and the more I do it the easier it is to do and that is

1 (34m 57s):
terrifying. I mean, that's how all the awful things in the world have happened. That's how you get

2 (35m 4s):
so many good people doing really bad things and that's what's happening. And it's terrifying.

1 (35m 12s):
You're like literally sending people back to be raped

2 (35m 14s):
and killed. That's what this is.

1 (35m 24s):
The three officers I spoke with Are Not Alone a union representing the Asylum officers and USCIS employees filed a brief in a lawsuit against the administration arguing that MPP was illegal and a ton of officers are quitting. I've heard this from a bunch of people in the Asylum core and at citizenship and Immigration Services the parent agency several use the word Exodus and if officers can't quit they're calling in sick anything they can do to avoid MPP. We try to get some numbers from the government. They wouldn't tell us how many people had left. They did say that by the end of the year. They hope to have 771 Asylum officers. But as of a month ago, they had something like 550 meaning they're roughly 200 people short.

1 (36m 11s):
I tried to get an interview with the acting head of USC is Ken cuccinelli to talk about all this he sends the name Deputy Homeland Security secretary. He didn't give us one but I did get one question in it was at a press breakfast. So this audio was recorded on my phone Molly O'Toole from how do you answer the concerns from some of your Asylum officers their concerns that many of these policies being handed down by the Trump Administration? And particularly targeting Asylum are in fact illegal that they're being ordered to implement policies that are under direct contradiction with immigration laws that are passed by

2 (36m 51s):
Congress. Well, they're not in direct contradiction or we wouldn't we wouldn't be utilizing them. We have 19,000 people that work with USCIS. I don't expect any two of us to completely agree on all of this. But I do expect that the professional employees at USCIS will Implement them. Policies in place. They're part of the

1 (37m 13s):
are part of the executive branch. He said and so long as we're in the position of putting in place what we believe to be legal policies that haven't been found to be. Otherwise, we fully expect them to implement those faithfully and sincerely and

2 (37m 26s):
vigorously

1 (37m 35s):
now, we're just shy of npp's first birthday after chaotic start. It's thousands returned each It's expanded all the way east across the u.s. Border from California to Texas Gulf Coast and it's not just Central Americans being pushed back. Now, it's Cubans Venezuelans pregnant women lgbtq Asylum, at least at the southern border has essentially ground to a halt. Here's an I'll say this like the administration's been successful. What do you mean? They want negative decisions. They don't want Asylum seekers in this country. They don't want people to get positive decisions or determinations for Asylum.

1 (38m 19s):
They have felt that the standards for screening interviews were too low and they wanted those standards changed and those standards raised and they've succeeded. What do you think the administration's end goal is no more people from shithole countries. And there's up in the shower almost every day. She has recurring nightmares. She says she can't focus can't sleep. She thinks about the people she's returned to Mexico all the time. It's nearly a hundred but there's one family in particular that she can't stop thinking about a father and son. Why do you think that case sticks with you?

1 (39m 3s):
Kid was really

2 (39m 4s):
young. What happened to him?

1 (39m 11s):
Did it get kidnapped he get murdered it's happening. It's happening a lot. What was that? And then what's my moral culpability in that? I interviewed that case and my signatures on that paperwork and that's something now that I live with. So yeah, I

2 (39m 40s):
feel. I feel in some ways that this

1 (39m 44s):
administration's made me a human rights abuser. The irony of this policy is that under our Asylum law to qualify for Asylum. You have to have been harmed because you're part of a particular group a certain class of people and the way that the Asylum officers have implemented MPP. They've created exactly that a huge group of people in need of protection about 60 thousand migrants forced by the us back to Mexico to be preyed upon their as they wait on their request for safety in the US. It's exactly the sort of situation that our law was supposed to prevent. One Asylum officer told me it's the first time that we've been asked to affirmatively do harm to people you're not just saying I don't think you're eligible.

1 (40m 34s):
You're literally saying I believe what you're saying. I think you're in danger. Go back to that danger

2 (40m 47s):
Ali O'Toole covers immigration for the Los Angeles Times sure to print version of this story also is that Website coming up what sound like when the cartels get on the phone and bargain with your family for your life. We have recordings. That's in a minute. I'm just talking about big radio when our program continues

1 (41m 9s):
support for This American Life

2 (41m 10s):
comes from quip. One of the first electric toothbrushes accepted by the American Dental Association quip has a built-in support system to help you stick with good brushing habits a built-in two-minute timer that pulses every thirty seconds to remind you to switch sides Sonic vibrations for healthier gums and a multi-use cover for brushing on the go plus brush heads are automatically delivered on a dentist recommended schedule. Every three months go to get quip.com American and get your first refill pack for free that's get quip.com /

1 (41m 45s):
American and from third love more than 14 million women have taken their fit finder quiz to

2 (41m 52s):
find the perfect fitting bra. From third loves more

1 (41m 55s):
than 80 sizes

2 (41m 56s):
including their signature 1/2 cup sizes plus third loves team of expert fit stylist are dedicated to helping you find your

1 (42m 3s):
perfect fit via text chat or phone

2 (42m 6s):
you have 60 days to put it to the

1 (42m 8s):
test. And if you don't love it return it and third level wash it and donate it to a woman in need to find your perfect fitting bra and get a discount on your first purchase. Go to third love.com American. That's third love.com / erican

2 (42m 25s):
This American Life Myra glass today in our program the out crowd stories about the people the tens of thousands of them who have been pushed into Mexico by the president's remain in Mexico policy and other policies we're talking about what happens to those people as they wait in Mexico for months. And before we get to the next ACT, there is another thing that the Trump Administration has put in place that makes it a lot harder to get Asylum here something we haven't talked about yet a new rule that went into effect this summer. It says if you want asylum in the United States you first have to apply for asylum in at least one of the countries that you passed through on your way here and have to get rejected by that country before will give you a sign.

2 (43m 7s):
I'm here in the United States many Asylum Seekers, of course have no idea that they're required to do this. When I was in Matamoros said that 10 Camp is came up with that woman Jenny from Honduras, but when I got worried about the cartel guy was sitting in our interview when have been kidnapped. Saying that a court date in the United States to get Asylum was coming up on November 26th, and she'd been waiting since mid-august. She thought she had a good case was hopeful have you applied for asylum in

1 (43m 34s):
Mexico yesterday solicited was lucky Mexico. No. No, I can't no time being everybody does no not here because it's too dangerous here

2 (43m 44s):
my coworker of even I looked at each other. Like does she know about the new rule? So we asked and she did know that you're supposed to apply for asylum in Mexico and Guatemala which had passed through. She wasn't going to do it. She said she didn't want to go there. Are you worried that that will keep you from getting asylum in the United States?

1 (44m 6s):
Boys good OKC poor kids. I'll okay. I yeah, I think so because from what I've heard we needed to have asked for asylum in the neighboring

2 (44m 20s):
countries. At that point we have just kind of look down at the ground and avoid eye contact. Nobody knows what to say. It sounds so bad for in fact for everybody in the camp. I'll 2,500 of them the waiting for months for the court dates hoping for Asylum. It's easy to imagine that this one rule would kill all their applications. Chinese attitude was I was going to cross my fingers. Hope for the best because I don't want to go back home things seem too dangerous there. I do dangerous and Mexico to lots of people feel that way. And the danger in Mexico is the subject of Act 2 which we have arrived at now at to take the long way home if you had to pick which border city in Mexico is the most dangerous wave of Laredo right across the border from Laredo, Texas would be a good Contender State Department classifies it as level for threat.

2 (45m 13s):
That is the same Threat Level as Iraq and Syria and a lot of danger there is kidnapping. Can I pick is so prevalent there that one of our producers met men in a migrant shelter, who are If I'd to go outside I am Cuban guy told her just putting one foot outside the shelter make some worried trip or just 2 minutes. He's looking all around and he's scared. We're interested in these kidnappings because they're so common reporter. Emily green went to Nuevo Laredo and August. Jesse's story about one kidnapping and what happened to one family including recordings and details, you really never get to hear his family ended up in Nuevo Laredo because of MPP Here's Emily.

1 (45m 51s):
This guy who got kidnapped. I met him by chance actually before he got kidnapped and he told me how scared he was that he would get kidnapped. I was on a bridge and we will that 800 that connects Mexico to the US every day around 1 p.m. That month the US was sending back migrants from the US side to Mexico under MPP that day there were a hundred of them. They were easy to spot. They all carried clear plastic bags with a couple of documents in them. And none of them had shoelaces u.s. Immigration takes shoelaces from anyone that detain most of them were men many of them with their heads down and one pair stands out to me a father and son and matching polo shirts.

1 (46m 38s):
Both of them sweating in the Heat their chubby soft phases that has his arm around son. They seem like they'll talk to me the man. I'll call him David quickly tells me a story. He says he's not a criminal. He's a person who's always made a living, but he can't live in his country anymore. They're from Honduras. David was a businessman. He ran a little clothing store. The gang is their demand money. They call it a war tax the tax kept getting higher and higher until David's family couldn't pay it anymore one night the cartel broke into his house threatened to rape his daughter and a flat I've done lots of interviews with people like David migrants and really difficult situations.

1 (47m 31s):
This one felt especially hard. I think just seeing a father fall apart in front of his 11 year

2 (47m 37s):
old son in Quebec, which our own solo de Roma document

1 (47m 45s):
has he wanted to ask for asylum in the US, but the agents didn't listen to him. They just gave him documents to come back to a court date in December. He can't go back to Doris he

2 (47m 55s):
says look Tangled on day. You're not a model. No tengo. Dinero. No said that I've been amazing game against a lot of the apis and II said what I said, I don't have anywhere to go. I don't have anything. I don't have money. He says

1 (48m 10s):
they say that here were being sent a lot of people get kidnapped and I don't know what to do.

2 (48m 22s):
We

1 (48m 22s):
only talked for ten minutes I ended up. Blending him my phone. He called his sister New Jersey and explained what happened that he made it to the United States only to be sent back to Mexico. It was getting dark out and I'd been told not to stay in the wave a little past dusk across back into the u.s. To go to dinner. Probably not a mile away from where I last seen David and my phone rang it was David sister. I'll call her Lauda. She had my number because it was my phone. He called her from earlier today. She was crying so hard I struggle to understand what she was saying. She tells me that bead and his son have been kidnapped just hours after I left them.

1 (49m 3s):
She'd gotten a call from the cartel demanding ransom for David and another 9,000 first son. So 18,000 total. They put David on the phone briefly. So she knew he was alive and then the kidnappers got on and I told them where in the world. Are we going to get this money the man on the other end told her she had to get the money. He said he'd call back tomorrow. I asked louder to record the phone calls and she did when they called the next day.

1 (49m 48s):
She put them on speaker and used to relatives phone to shoot video of it. I cannot think on that. I don't

2 (49m 59s):
want you.

1 (50m 2s):
I need you to deposit the money as soon as possible be a hitha be a heat. That means old lady Lauda is 38. She tells them again that she has no money that she's sick from anxiety in her conversations with me. Lauda is scared crying, but when she talked to the kidnappers, she holds it together. And she asked if David and his son are okay the kidnappers tell her they have food that they can bathe for now each call only lasts a few minutes.

1 (50m 44s):
By the third day the cartel has lowered the price to five thousand dollars each for David and his son. Now the works the night shift at a printing Factory in New Jersey hardly makes twenty thousand dollars in a year. Plus. She's a single mom. In all of these calls the kidnappers talk super fast. I'm guessing because we have other Ransom calls to make kidnappings a big business a volume business with a whole infrastructure kidnapping migrants has been common in Mexico for a long time what's different now is that the u.s. Is making it especially easy for the cartels to identify and snatch victims.

1 (51m 26s):
They're sending Asylum Seekers back in big groups all at once same time each day, and they're easy to Identify with their plastic bags and missing shoe laces Homeland Security didn't respond to my request for comment on the kidnapping situation. But this week the acting head of Customs and Border Protection. So the u.s. Is quote sending a message to the criminal organizations to stop exploiting these migrants in Nuevo Laredo. The most dangerous part of these Asylum Seekers journey is probably the hours right after they've been sent back to Mexico after walking across the bridge their sported to the Mexican immigration office by Van outside the office men and four-door trucks monitor who's coming and going locals call them loss Milo's the bad guys one migrant told me about getting chased as he walked to a shelter from there.

1 (52m 19s):
But by far the most dangerous place is a bus station. It's a place that go to escape Nuevo Laredo, but it's a place I end up getting caught kidnapping is so routine the cartels referred to it as passing through the office. An extortion cause you can tell it's a well-oiled machine. It's methodical they sound like they're negotiating the price of a car. They do this all the time loud. It turns to everyone to can think of she goes to our local police department and to her mayor's office to ask for help. They reach out to the office of Senator Cory Booker. But by the time they get back to her about a week later, it's too late Lauda eventually scrape together money from her mom and sister.

1 (53m 3s):
For just a fraction of what the cartel is asking for which a joy Toyota Tango millions of dollars three thousand. Look. I've already pulled together $1,200 tell me what we're going to do and give me time to get the rest. The man says he'll confer with his boss. In the meantime. He says she should wire the money Lauda asked to talk to her brother and they put him on a month. I know. No, not the proper burial. She asked Abby. How are you brother worried. He says she tells him don't worry that she's pulled together some money.

1 (53m 45s):
The next day the cartels released David and his son. I talked to David on the phone three days after his release. He's so distressed. It's hard for him to finish the sentence. Espera espera espera breathe. I tell him I wanted to help him that's not something a reporter is supposed to say but back when they were kidnapped their lives were in immediate danger and I helped in small ways. I connected louder with an NGO in Mexico City that advocates for migrants since David and his son were released. I've suggested safe bus options the family they always knew that I was a Reporter doing a story on them, but they came to see me as one of the few people that could trust that they could rely on loud.

1 (54m 35s):
I called me almost every day with updates. She still does

2 (54m 43s):
a

1 (54m 43s):
few weeks ago. I went to meet David and his family and wanted a in northern Mexico where there are hold up. They were staying with an acquaintance of loud has an exchange for grocery money and help with construction. David didn't want us to interviewing him there. He feels his welcome has run out. So we do the interview at our hotel. It's David his 11 year old son and his 19 year old daughter who's also been sent back to Mexico under MPP. I'm here with my producer Lena. We figure we'll talk to David in one room while the kids watch TV in the other but the kids sit by their dad on the bed. They won't leave one another side. I wanted to know what happened when I left him.

1 (55m 25s):
That day on the bridge and what he described were all these details of how the cartels kidnapping business actually works. Once you're a victim on the inside details that were routine and also terrifying. So here's what happened. He said he and the other hundred people who were sent back to Mexico that day were taken from the bridge to the local immigration office for processing after that. He says a man wearing a Mexican immigration officer uniform agreed. To take him in a sent to the bus station so they could go to a safer City. But as soon as they got to the station, he got a bad feeling Gwendolyn Treecko me who aluminum when I

2 (56m 6s):
went in with my son. This guy grabbed me was a tall guy Strong full of the tooth. So he grabbed me and he said I want to talk to you and I said I have nothing to talk to you about and he said you're gonna get into that car and we're gonna ask you some questions and I said no and he said you can get into the car. Easy way or the hard way Polamalu Thurman

1 (56m 28s):
Thomas. He says at least a dozen migrants also arrived at the bus station that night in the cartel has told them into different trucks. All the trucks were brand-new. He says he remembers that the one he got into was a gray Nissan and there were four or five other migrants in there with him. He says the immigration officer who drove him to the bus station sat in his car and watched them all being carted off. We can't confirm this but there there is a long history of law enforcement and the cartels working hand-in-hand for example in 2011 7 top officials at Mexico's immigration agency were fired amid allegations that the agency was involved in the kidnapping of migrants and it squares with what his sister New Jersey told me she wired money to that immigration officer for the beads bus ticket and when she got the ransom call the kidnappers told her to wire the money to that same account the one that immigration officer used She said something like isn't that the immigration officers account and they hung up.

1 (57m 32s):
I asked the Mexican immigration agency to respond. They told me they have no knowledge of recent complaints of immigration officers turning migrants over to the

2 (57m 41s):
cartels.

1 (57m 47s):
In the truck David held on to his son the kidnappers didn't speak alone ago the hooker chademo la cabeza.

2 (57m 54s):
The guy just told us to keep our heads down to stop looking at the sides and the guy who was driving us was keeping an eye on us, and he was making sure we were not chatting. They had the windows all rolled up several so on.

1 (58m 9s):
The truck drove around for a while, but David suspect they were just going in circles. The didn't actually travel very far. They pulled up to a normal-looking house with a big gate inside the kidnappers use our cell phones to take pictures of David his son and the rest they interrogated David about where he's from his line of work how he got to the US and most importantly what family members he has there. It was like patient intake at a health clinic except for by a cartel. We talked about the cartels as organized crime, but I never imagined the bookkeeping they keep records and photos of the migrants I kidnap and also who they release David says there were more than 20 migrants at the house the men and women slept in separate rooms during the day the kidnappers hit any of the men who tried to look at the women the room David and his son slept in had one mattress.

1 (59m 4s):
Everyone else up on the floor at night David would lay on the ground holding his son. Look at you as he has come across are going on in your trunk. Oh, no, that's how I love resolved.

2 (59m 15s):
I would lay down with him in the corner and I would hug my son that you're on the owner. They couldn't see you crying but my tears were almost like falling out and I will be re better. Look at what hurt me the most Emily was that when this guy arrived the boss. He would always tell me that my son's organs were good for Selling that he was in a good age that he was only 11 years old. You'll see ye cannot break apart and my son wants heard the guys saying that his kidneys that his organs were good for selling and he was almost crying and I told him don't cry, but I was desperate how I said, but I love you

1 (59m 54s):
as David tells me the story his two kids are still sitting on the bed beside him. Neither of them is looking at anything in particular. They're just sitting there blankly. W it also seems devoid of emotion, he doesn't add all resemble the David from a few weeks ago the one I talk to you right after his release now his effect is completely

2 (1h 0m 15s):
flat

1 (1h 0m 25s):
on the fourth day of his kidnapping one of the bosses woke David up and told him they'd reached a deal with his sister. They may behold.

2 (1h 0m 32s):
She said to me get up with yours. One fat guy because today I'm going to release you guys because your sister already paid made a deposit. So low so comical

1 (1h 0m 42s):
the man told that beat if you talk to anyone police reporters, the cartel would come for him take his son and kill David the same man who kidnapped them in the first place drove them back to the bus station and bought them each a ticket. David doesn't know what happened to the dozens of other people in the house. Most migrants who are kidnapped and released the cartel gives them a keyword. It's like a passcode that indicates the migrant has paid off the cartel so they aren't kidnapped again, but David isn't given one maybe because he hasn't paid a high enough Ransom. When we met David in Monterey, he didn't know what he was going to do on day one of the kidnapping the cartel had taken David in a sense immigration paperwork and they didn't give it back without that paperwork.

1 (1h 1m 31s):
He doesn't even know which day he's supposed to show up in court. But even if he could figure it out, he told us he's too scared to return to Nuevo Laredo under MPP. He'd have to pass through the same Port of Entry to get to his hearing. what if we get kidnapped again, he asked Last week I get a phone call from David the family they've been staying with in Monterrey wants them gone and he's lost hope in the Asylum process. He thinks they won't be listened to that. The hearing process is a lie. And in fact, he's right about how his case is likely to come out under this Administration.

1 (1h 2m 12s):
It's virtually impossible to gain Asylum based on gang violence. So David's decided to take his family back to Honduras the country. They tried escaping in the first place according to Homeland Security Zone statistics thousands of other families are making the same choice.

2 (1h 2m 37s):
Emily green just reported a defeat for vice.com One Last Thing Before We End today's programme when we were in the tent camp in Matamoros. I learned that the way the remain in Mexico policy works. It applies to adults but if a kid shows up without an adult the Border agents have to let them into the United States. They don't send them back and live in the tent camp is hard and boring and there are kids who are like, I want to go send me alone. We met a dad is 15 year old did that in this case here? Some both agreed. It would probably be better whole reason. They were trying to get into the us was her son's future.

2 (1h 3m 17s):
Anyway, he's not in Houston if you put into a shelter on the other side, but hopefully you get to her it was a gamble, but a calculated one, so 5:30 in the afternoon a couple weeks ago. His father walked his teenager to the Border Station gave him a hug. Ask God to bless him and send him off

1 (1h 3m 37s):
North Elementary who I pop in November's you just the only thing you said to me is I'll see you later. dad

2 (1h 3m 43s):
The two weeks and son his son is called his mother three times. She's back in their home country with their other children. The dad asked me not to specify what country we say their names. His son said he's in custody with other kids and says it's way better than the tent camp in other words so far so good.

1 (1h 4m 1s):
Okay. Let's stop being I use it a lot in them being attended to or me like he's doing well there that they treat him. Well that he gets everything. He needs there that he gets a place to sleep food clothing and he So is getting classes

2 (1h 4m 16s):
the only bad part of it now, is that the Dad's here alone? He misses his son things about him all the time first thing in the morning. He said last thing at night Darwin that nine-year-old who's the king of the camp remember him he and his mom told Aviva did they've talked about whether she should send him over alone to fend for himself

1 (1h 4m 36s):
your

2 (1h 4m 39s):
system work as a mom. It's not that she doesn't love him, but there's no Way for them to go together. She'll send him alone. He isn't want that. No,

1 (1h 4m 48s):
forget it. Let me look at that angle.

2 (1h 4m 52s):
No because the fear that I have I mean a lot better. Honestly, you won't lose me. She says

1 (1h 4m 57s):
you're then going to get

2 (1h 4m 58s):
that my fear is that I'll lose my mom because they don't see their moms.

1 (1h 5m 7s):
Don't come as a parolee has

2 (1h 5m 10s):
never been separated from her. He says and she jumps in our Love is inseparable. He's sitting at her feet. Hugs are good eggs. She puts her arm around him.

1 (1h 5m 19s):
So if your mom tells you you should crossed into the u.s. By yourself. What would you tell her? Yeah.

2 (1h 5m 27s):
I tried it. She says he doesn't want to go he refuses it starts to cry and she doesn't want him to go but given how things might play out. She's not sure what else to do. These are my people this is a land where my forefathers lie. These are my people.

2 (1h 6m 8s):
In Brotherhood, we're Heirs of a Creed to live by a Creed that proclaims that by loved ones blood stains. This is my land and these are my people we're bottom is produced today by Nadya Raymond with help from Aviva to kornfeld people put together today show includes on a baker Emmanuel Barry Susan Burton Ben Calhoun Zoe chased in a tree. Kishan, call Whitney Dangerfield Damon grave Michelle Harris Jessica. Lessin hot making me clean the city's Stone Nelson Catherine raimondo been failing to his ship Louis Sullivan crystals to Talam at Tierney. And Nancy Updike are managing editors Diane.

2 (1h 6m 48s):
Will you are executive editors David kestenbaum interpreters for today's show. We're Gabriella Munoz Catalina Maria Johnson, Daniel Shore and Maria Miss Elaina our fixer in Matamoros with journalists Vero Cardenas the voices of the Asylum officers in the first story of the show were performed by Maggie Siff and Betty Gilpin, by the way, you can see Maggie Siff on billions and Betty Gilpin on Book show glow special. Thanks today to Harrison Nesbitt a Navy Kaufman Kimbrel Kelly Ronaldo. Leo knows Junior Kenji. Cazuca. Christopher Turpin William Dobson. Digit Shantae Russell. Di Lewis clay Boggs, Marine Meyer, Nick Morello and Woodson Martin our website This American Life dot-org This American Life to go to public radio stations by PRX the public radio exchange Sports of This American Life comes from the Lagunitas Brewing Company feeling stories and songs with Lagunitas IPA, of course committed to give me the pub.

2 (1h 7m 37s):
In public radio find out more one shoe at Lagunitas.com. Thanks as always to a programs co-founder. Mr. Tory Mattia, you know, he recently cook dinner for some friends who hate onions and anything in the onion family.

1 (1h 7m 51s):
They wanted to keep the the leak to a

2 (1h 7m 54s):
minimum. I'm Ira Glass back next week with more stories of This American Life. These are my people These are the ones who will reach for the stars. These are my people.