2 (1s):
Support for This American Life comes from State Farm The Helpful Folks at State Farm are there for you on those days when it feels like problems just pop out of nowhere for auto and home insurance State Farm agents are ready to help find one at statefarm.com. And from the Capital One Walmart Rewards Card, earn 5% back at Walmart online 2% at Walmart in store at restaurants and on travel and 1% everywhere else the Capital One Walmart Rewards Card, what's in your wallet terms and exclusions apply some people they read those old stories from 3,000 years ago The Iliad and the Odyssey the read them in school and it just gets to them.

2 (46s):
One of The Producers here at our show Emanuel was like that. I love the

1 (51s):
like Heroes Hector. I thought Agamemnon was such a diva. I love the Aeneid. We had to translate it in my Latin class. And in addition to like translating passages. I decided to make like a nine by three foot mural out of magazine paper depicting Aeneas is like journey into hell

2 (1m 11s):
when you say magazine paper, you mean you're cutting gliders out of a magazine like a sweetheart.

1 (1m 16s):
No, I mean I was meticulously ripping teeny pieces of different colors of magazine paper and making like a mosaic basically and I remember that J.Lo was on the mural for some reason because she's wearing like a white dress that kind of look gracious.

2 (1m 32s):
So there's like a toga eat.

1 (1m 34s):
Yeah. Yeah, so she got to be Dino and how

2 (1m 38s):
my teacher assigned a 20-page research paper on any subject in the world like they could do anything at all. It was obvious to a manual what to do. The story of Troy the place of the Trojan War happened the walled City that they pulled the Trojan Horse

1 (1m 51s):
into and in doing research for this project. I found out about this guy named Heinrich schliemann

2 (1m 57s):
Heinrich schliemann, man, who also read those old stories and got obsessed.

1 (2m 2s):
He's born in Germany in the 1800's. He's like a businessman a merchant in Russia. And then he like moved to California during the gold rush and opened a bank. It said that he would carry around like copies of Homer. And he taught himself ancient Greek like in two years. He taught himself ancient Greek, which is insane to me just so he could like read the books and like the language of origin anyway, but basically he like a masses huge Fortune. Hmm. And once he has this Fortune he decides that he's going to find Troy at the time people weren't sure if it was a real place or just like a story like

2 (2m 41s):
Atlantis and I know this kind of a dumb question but in that . Did archaeologists even exist. Like was that even a job

1 (2m 49s):
yet? It's not really a job. It's like a very new field this whole idea of digging up the past. And so there are like sort of hobbyist dabbling in

2 (2m 59s):
it. These hobbyist by the 1870s. It figured out from various Geographic clues that Homer gives them the text about Troy's proximity to the Dardanelles and Mount Ida they figured out where a likely location for the city might be it was in the place that we now call turkey and at that spot was kind of a big A mound of dirt and she even gets going

1 (3m 19s):
so he starts today. He hires dozens and dozens of workers and when he's digging he starts to find basically like these these layers of cities that

2 (3m 27s):
are sort of built on top of each other.

1 (3m 29s):
So there's bits of pottery and like foundations of buildings when a city burned to the ground. They would just build another city rape on top of it. Right but none of them are what he's looking for. Like what he is looking for is he wants to find basically like gold silver. Bronze, like that's the thing. He thinks is going to be like the signifier that this is Troy because he's thinking of you know this treasure rich city that Homer describes in The Iliad and he's also thinking that like, well, it's got to be a

2 (3m 60s):
further down like has to be at the bottom. Right like Troy is going to be at the bottom of this

1 (4m 3s):
pile and so he keeps digging

2 (4m 5s):
and he keeps finding more and more layers with

1 (4m 7s):
cities. Yes, and then he gets to the bottom of these piles of cities and that's where he finds us. Treasure he finds exactly what he's looking for. He finds his gold. He finds a silver he finds bronze he calls it priam's treasure premium being like the the king of Troy in The

2 (4m 26s):
Iliad but there's nothing on it that says like

3 (4m 28s):
priam's you forget you re priam's bank or something. No, okay.

1 (4m 32s):
No, no, nothing like that. It doesn't have

3 (4m 35s):
hard proof that it's Troy.

2 (4m 38s):
He doesn't find writing which would have really helped. Can I ask one question? Yeah, did he find a huge wooden horse?

1 (4m 46s):
Because that would have nailed it. I don't know huge wooden horse wouldn't have survived. Hmm. Okay. Sorry fine.

2 (4m 59s):
Today's Show is about the inadvertent things that happen when you start digging up the past and this is the point where schliemann story gets more complicated schliemann announces to the world that he's found the city that Homer was writing about Found try to becomes internationally famous,

1 (5m 13s):
but the truth of the situation is is that the Troy at the bottom of

2 (5m 18s):
the pile

1 (5m 19s):
with all this treasure and all this gold

2 (5m 22s):
that actually was not

1 (5m 25s):
Troy. It was not Homer's Troy at least like that's from thousands of years before Troy would have even happened. The Troy that he was looking for was actually one of the cities that he had just dug through and destroyed in the process. S of

2 (5m 40s):
digging through it. So in other words, he's just digging down. He reaches Troy. He's like no. No this isn't it throws it on the side is like debris. Yeah, that's

1 (5m 49s):
garbage. Yeah, and basically he destroyed a big chunk of the ancient city in trying to find

2 (5m 56s):
the city. The tree was looking for archaeologists understand now was just three layers down and he dug nine layers

1 (6m 3s):
down. So what this means is that like for any archaeologists today who's trying to figure out anything that's going on. Try kind of screwed them over. I called one of these guys. His name is Brian Rose, and he was a co-director of excavations at Troy for 25 years. He's not a fan of schliemann.

2 (6m 23s):
So he didn't really know what he was doing. So there's a lot of information that we've lost on account of his speed and digging when I look through his notebooks. He'll say something like Byzantine building and debris found today dismantled now, that doesn't tell me if it's early middle late Byzantine. In what the building looked like was it many rooms. Was it only one room? What did he find? There was just debris that was in his way

1 (6m 47s):
debris that was in his way that schliemann would just dig up and throw in a pile on the side.

2 (6m 52s):
Yeah, schliemann excavated extensively and he had to put the Earth that he removed somewhere schliemann dumped all the Earth from his trenches in the areas where I want to dig and part of the reason that he wants to dig in that area is

1 (7m 6s):
because there might be writing there.

2 (7m 8s):
It's a shame it is not me that very hard.

1 (7m 10s):
Because there's all this dirt all these uprooted ruins that are just on top of that area and it would take years and Brian says technology that doesn't even exist now to dig it up without doing more damage.

2 (7m 23s):
So you have 20 meters of dump through which you would have to go in order to get to a deposit that might have writing of late Bronze Age date. That's something I'd love to be able to do. But for now, it's just two Monumental and undertaking to do

3 (7m 39s):
it.

1 (7m 45s):
One of the things that has always kind of bugged me about the story is that before schliemann died? They actually figured out that he was wrong. Oh they did. Yeah, but he still remembered to this day for discovering Troy and one of the things I remember from that paper I wrote was that really ended up

2 (8m 1s):
mad at him like

1 (8m 5s):
like I was mad at him for

2 (8m 7s):
like you were gonna go visit try and he messed it up for

1 (8m 10s):
you. Sigelei kind of but when I talk with Brian about it, he's kind of Zen about it.

2 (8m 15s):
I would certainly Express frustration which Limon in the same way that an archaeologists digging at Troy and a hundred years would Express frustration with me. I like his

1 (8m 26s):
attitude. Yeah. I mean, I think when you're an archaeologist, you kind of have to take the Long View, you know, you're aware that people are going to come after you and they're going to know more than you so you're very aware of your own limitations.

2 (8m 40s):
And that's actually our show today today on our program. We have all kinds of people going and digging up stuff from the Past full of Hope, but definitely with their own limitations. And the circle changes things WBEZ Chicago, it's This American Life. I'm Ira Glass

3 (8m 57s):
stay with us.

2 (9m 8s):
Like one family plot, we move now from The Losers of the Trojan War to the winners or anyway, the descendants of the winners people of Greece. Here's something you probably didn't know about Greece that don't have enough Cemetery space and cremation is not very popular there. So what they do is when you die, you're buried in the ground and then three or four years later your family gets together. And digs up your bones get you out of the ground give the space to somebody else. One of the producers of our show intimacy tease. Her parents were both born in Greece as you traveled there in September with them to do this for the very first time.

1 (9m 46s):
We're in a rental car driving from Athens to a small village in the South called stupa. It's about four hours away. My dad's driving. I'm in the front seat moms in the back. We're on our way to Stew about to exhume my grandmother. My father's mom. My dad's talking about the cost of gas how much money it will cost to keep this car full of gas. Also other things about gas

3 (10m 10s):
station.

1 (10m 12s):
I recognize this conversation not for its content before its design my dad an extraordinarily kind and thoughtful person. He feels so much space with small talk. I hate small talk. Today September 19th is my mom's 66th birthday. We weren't supposed to exhume my grandmother on my mom's birthday. No supposed to happen tomorrow, but because of forecasted rain we're doing it today what the gift for my birthday? This will not be the last time she brings up her

3 (10m 43s):
birthday.

1 (10m 47s):
My grandmother spent the last third of her life dying, her disorder was never successfully diagnosed kind of looked like Parkinson's kind of looked like Huntington's but it was neither of those things a caretaker a distant cousin named Cassandra would come and change her diapers twice a day feed her baby food growing up. I was kind of afraid of my grandma. She lost her ability to speak and she just kind of looked at me and moaned. And cried

3 (11m 17s):
it's called Parrilla. One you have with you cannot control your movements your beauty you have jerk in a controllable movements of your hands and face. And Korea is actually a great word right party. Yeah. Sorry. It means

1 (11m 35s):
it means I'm dancing. My mom says she's always answering questions for my dad. I think he prefers it that

3 (11m 42s):
way how many member smitherland I do it and I have to pay tolls.

1 (11m 49s):
My mom didn't go with my dad to his mother's funeral. He went alone. I figured he'd be doing this second funeral this reverse funeral alone too. And while I don't know what this process looks like at all the thought of my dad exhuming his mother's Body by himself. It just sounded sad and so a few months ago I decided I wanted to go with him to be there for him and my fantasy of it. I'd be by his side holding his hand patient. Serious even which isn't how it usually goes between us my dad doesn't talk about his feelings too often half the time. I think he doesn't even know what they are.

1 (12m 29s):
But then when I'm around him I get impatient. I guess this moment just seems really big like a chance for us to be different with each other. But then when my mom found out that I was going she decided that she would come to she doesn't want to pass up a chance to see me. She agrees to sit in the back seat while I try talking to my dad about what we're on our way to go

3 (12m 51s):
do and general. I'm not very comfortable in cemeteries. I don't know I never was

1 (12m 59s):
right most people aren't comfortable in cemeteries, but for some reason I just can't let it go.

3 (13m 5s):
Well, there must be a reason I don't believe so. You expect me to say more like a know what you say driving to my

1 (13m 20s):
driving. This back and forth is so typical. It's practically scripted he tries to play along to engage, but I never think it's enough.

3 (13m 31s):
Do you know when your mom was born? 1928

1 (13m 38s):
actually she was born in

3 (13m 39s):
1925. She a smoker. No, she never smiled when she had drinker. I don't think she ever had any alcohol.

1 (13m 49s):
What did she do for fun

3 (13m 51s):
cross stitch cross stitch. Do you have friends? very few Do you think she was depressed? I ride I guess so. I never thought in these terms at the time. But yeah, I guess your mission and I think so problems you are. Was she a good mom? I don't know. I guess

1 (14m 38s):
the check engine light comes on in the rental oil. It derails the rest of the car ride each conversation circling back to the potentially faulty

3 (14m 45s):
engine.

1 (14m 55s):
We pull up to his family's Village at two. Woman who took care of my grandmother could a sudra is waiting for us in her yard? I haven't seen her in five or six years. She brings his cool water keeps remarking on how absolutely different I look I wouldn't recognize you anywhere. She says then a different family friend. So at the Utopia walks into the yard and joins us, you look exactly the same. She tells me you haven't aged at all so much of what there is to talk about is how And each of us is what age looks like on us and how we all wear it.

3 (15m 32s):
If you have

1 (15m 35s):
an hour later, we walk to the graveyard, it's me my mom my dad rasulullah and South Korea, please Julia is carrying recycled plastic water bottles full of vinegar. She's also carrying small white brushes the kind you use to scrub dirty pots and pans. The Village were in looks like a caricature of Mediterranean Village, the roads aren't paved the homes are all Stone you can see the Mediterranean Sea and the diet does Mountains from anywhere the graveyard is connected to the church which is connected to the school. Everything is Dusty the graves are all white. The buildings are all

3 (16m 12s):
white.

1 (16m 18s):
The Grave Digger is already at my grandmother's grave. He's wearing blue overalls and a yellow t-shirt. He has on a Yankees cap. His name is Arturo baseball isn't really a thing in this country. I can't imagine where he got the Hat. My mom walks to the opposite end of the cemetery where she sits down on a stranger's grave and he's some shade. She doesn't want to see my grandmother's body. She says It's a small Cemetery just a few dozen Graves and they're also loved which makes sense. No one is buried for long here. So as long as the body's in the ground people come to visit each plot has photos on it bottles of beer and liquor potted plants candles many of them lit.

1 (17m 2s):
My dad hobbles around inspecting the other Graves to see who else has died since the last time he was here whenever he Sighs has a name he confirms with kusuda that yes, the person whose name is written on the gravestone is in fact dead

3 (17m 21s):
by now your teeth.

1 (17m 24s):
One of the Grave is occupied by the priest who blessed by grandmother's body just a few years ago at her funeral, but I just saw him just my dad says I'm my mother's funeral. He's dead all week. People have been saying to us because women accuracy which I understand as we hope she's melted such a strange way to say. I hope your grandmother's flesh and organs have finished decomposing. My taxi driver who picked me up from the airport and Athens told me that it his aunts exhumation. He'd had to wash the residual skin and blood off of her bones, which is a thought so unnerving.

1 (18m 10s):
I don't think I fully fathomed it still. I stand beside the Grave Digger defiant as though to say, even if none of you are going to look I'm going to look for more than an hour. There's nothing to look at. Arturo's just shoveling out rocks and dirt placing it all in a pile at the foot of the grave and I stand there sweating waiting for whatever is going to happen. My mom keeps sitting on her Shady grave. My dad keeps reading the names of headstones. Oh, he's running out of names. He recognizes growing up this Village. Like the rest of Greece was homogeneous. Everyone was related to everyone but now there are Balkan migrants living here retired German.

1 (18m 54s):
It's and breads even some expats from the US in Greece there called Sani strangers. It is exciting in here eventually he walks over to where I'm standing I think to check in on

3 (19m 13s):
me. How do you one? if you say so how do you feel? Kind of Nam

2 (19m 28s):
kind of numb.

3 (19m 31s):
You know what I'm saying? It's not I'm not ashamed.

1 (19m 41s):
Nah, nah better than that all interrupts himself to say look there's water to drink and he walks away to the corner of the cemetery. We're crassula has set up a makeshift water station. Arturo's Doug four or five feet down and switches to shovel out for what looks more like an ice

3 (20m 0s):
pick them.

1 (20m 5s):
We're getting close to the body now he says Dad walks over to stand with me so does for Saudia my mom comes over to which at first I find shocking but it's not really she doesn't want to feel left

3 (20m 18s):
out together

1 (20m 21s):
slowly. He sort of says

3 (20m 24s):
got to the coffins.

2 (20m 28s):
A flower that they put on the

1 (20m 34s):
holding out a giant trash bag. She's collecting any pieces of coffin that have been disintegrated in the past few years. For a moment. Everyone is

3 (20m 43s):
silent. Well, yeah.

1 (20m 53s):
It's time Arturo says be very careful. The body is ready. What have you took your time?

3 (21m 4s):
My like it's all over I'm going

1 (21m 8s):
Arturo pulled my grandmother's head out of the ground and hands of the custodian. There's still some hair on it. But no skin. She plucks the hair off the skull which isn't white like the fake skeletons. I remember from science class. It's dark brown closer to Black. My grandmother's eye sockets are filled with a dirt who Studio rubs her skull clean with a scrubby brush. She holds it up to us to look at. Hang out my grandmother's gold teeth still intact. It's like she's saying see it's really her

3 (21m 41s):
didn't have any startup business.

1 (21m 44s):
Arturo keeps pulling out pieces of coffin and pieces of my grandmother. They're not connected to anything anymore. Most of these bones have come loose. He pulls out some ribs a shoulder bone, but I think is a femur but my mom says is a clavicle. Rasulullah collects each bone one-by-one and lays them out in the sun. This was her left shoulder. She tells us see you can still see the metal pin in her bone from when she got her surgery. For the next 20 or so minutes, she reconstructs as much of the body as Arturo can salvage. It's also bizarrely DIY.

1 (22m 26s):
They slowly climbs into the grave with Arturo mid dig to help pull out bones. Neither of them is wearing gloves in Greece Kris Wu explains to me we bury the dead with their heads pointing West because that's where the sun sets. And so that's where life ends and this process of exhuming it's conducted from the head down. The head comes out first and Arturo works his way down the body the last thing that comes out or my grandmother's feet accept. Both of my grandmother's talks thick wool are intact this fabric doesn't disintegrate she was buried in them on purpose so that they know when they'd made it to the end.

1 (23m 13s):
Those are her socks. Yes. Get out of the yachty and I'm gonna do you mind saying it in English? This is something they suck. So all the

2 (23m 28s):
little Bones from the feet can come out see all the bolt the Healer the toes and the oh my goodness.

1 (23m 39s):
We stand there for a moment watching Chris dula wipe down each bone. It's jarring how practical this whole process is how unceremonious. It feels to bury your loved ones in socks so that you'll know when you've finished unburying their remains.

3 (23m 55s):
Okay, I'm still no. Yeah, I'm okay. This one is not scary.

1 (24m 9s):
This is gonna be with me for a while. My dad says write as my mom says this is not scary. I feel annoyed with my mom for stepping on his answer on what he might have said just so she can say that she's fine that she's not scared. But then when my dad does have the space to tell me what he's feeling he can't seem to catch his

3 (24m 30s):
breath. Let's call it's the skull. Her

1 (24m 35s):
bones, it's all her bones. When it first came out. It looked like a coconut because I was still hair on

3 (24m 41s):
it. Yeah,

1 (24m 52s):
I'm okay. He's saying Priscilla tells us that it's over we can go while we're away. She'll keep scrubbing the bones first with water then with vinegar. So place them in a small box that will go in a shed which holds the remains of all the other exhumed residents of this graveyard many of them people my grandmother grew up knowing and some Sunny some foreigners. I asked to see the shed, which really is just a shed like we're a friend's dad Mikey.

3 (25m 29s):
Lawn mower,

1 (25m 30s):
except for this one's got Stacks and stacks of small boxes in it. Some are labeled many, aren't it? Doesn't seem like anyone physics was place. I just met a Bastion is a mission later. We'll come back to the cemetery to watch a priest one that's alive bless. My grandmother's bones one last goodbye. But for now we three meet my Mom and my Dad we pile back into the rental to drive to a neighboring village where we're staying for the next few days. Days and suddenly my dad starts to talk about his

3 (26m 2s):
feelings and I just it was that was my mom. I was like, that was my mom. It's important its is I was expecting it to be I don't know if I feel peaceful. I was expecting it to I didn't I did not know what to expect. I spent a lot of hours up at night. I'm just babbling. I thought it was going to be.

1 (26m 40s):
And that was it. It was over not as traumatic as we thought it would

3 (26m 44s):
be here's a sign for you Carlos

1 (26m 47s):
and here in this car. All my family has is what we've always had. I start fussing over my dad's driving.

3 (26m 56s):
Signs that said yeah, we need to look for it

1 (27m 1s):
and then I start feeling carsick every bad habit I have with my parents begins to Bubble Up and instead of doing the thing that I came here to do instead of engaging with my dad. I become a kid again complaining about an upset stomach. I'm going to throw up. I can't and it's here.

3 (27m 19s):
Yeah, but like I don't have a good I want you to not drive if we don't know where I'm sorry. I've my stomach feels like why is this somebody's shit belt is not the owner some isn't is it door

1 (27m 31s):
open?

3 (27m 32s):
You ain't

1 (27m 34s):
listening back to this car ride. What sticks out to me most is the moment my dad tries doing the exact thing. I came to Greece hoping for he tries talking about his feelings and he probably would have if I hadn't so quickly stopped

3 (27m 47s):
listening. Yes, you have the phone, but you have the phone and you can talk to her and she can say

1 (28m 1s):
A couple days later my last night in Greece with my parents. We decide to go out for dinner when we get to the restaurant. My mom pulls me aside to ask if I'm going to be good tonight. If I'm going to be present. I'm always present. I lie. She says no, the only time I was present on this trip was at the cemetery. Otherwise, I'm the same as ever. We're all the same as

3 (28m 25s):
ever.

1 (28m 26s):
The only thing that's different really is. We have one less

3 (28m 30s):
day. Lena matiz is a producer on our show. That to next of Kindle

2 (28m 52s):
so shut it is about people unburying the past and we people leave us they don't just leave behind physical objects being mad at wound me talk to a man about a digital excavation

1 (29m 4s):
Gloria Wayne was a voracious reader her son. Dave has Vivid memories of when he was six or seven going with her to the library in the world in North West England. They made a trip to has Will Library every couple of weeks. Turning and replenishing her stack of borrowed Mills and Boon novels. It was a habit Gloria maintained all through her long life. And so for Christmas back in 2011 has Sons got her a gift to Aid in that habit a Kindle. Gloria was suspicious of online security in general. So they paired her Kindle with Dave's existing account and added an unlimited subscription. So she could read whatever she wanted whenever she wanted to read it earlier this year Gloria died.

1 (29m 48s):
She was 83 years old. I spoke to Dave on the phone about his mom and we talked about the weird life. Admin that suddenly becomes super important after such a loss.

2 (29m 59s):
One of the first things that occurred to me, even though it may be the most insignificant. But my mum hated wasting money, he would absolutely go mad. If she thought that the next month subscription with the canal and she was around to use

1 (30m 12s):
it. So only hours after she'd gone and still in a daze Dave went to do the responsible thing the thing he knew his mom would approve of cancel the Kindle

2 (30m 23s):
subscription and then I thought well just For Old Times Sake, let's have a look at what was that? So I clicked on to library and that before me I found 3046 books. And the and the time period between Christmas 2011 when we both of the candle to her sad passing on a ballistics team, she had purchased over 3,000 books, which was quite remarkable really

1 (30m 53s):
Dave had had an idea of his mum's literary interests. Her bookshelves contained a good amount of romance novels of the sort. He remembered from childhood. He also used to get email notifications every so often remember his account was linked to her Kindle all these years. Yeah, but he didn't really pay attention to what his mother was buying romance novels. He'd kind of expected

2 (31m 15s):
but what the was was a number of trust but this diplomatically really do we stay erotica. This is the replica

1 (31m 27s):
and it wasn't just the vanilla stuff. It was a real pick-and-mix of sexual expression if you're listening with kids right now. Don't worry. This is not in any way

2 (31m 37s):
X-rated. not wanting to throw a whole 20 cup here of acronyms at you, but the mff mff FSM triple MF all kinds of different combinations of relationships and sexual encounters, which was quite staggering to be honest, you know, there was no one aspect was no one peccadillo that she Got drawn to it was a whole variety

1 (32m 7s):
Dave tweeted about both his mother's passing and his inadvertent inheritance of a library of what he described tongue-in-cheek as magnificently epic sleaze. He concluded it with a tribute of sorts mother. He wrote a raise a glass. Discovering the library made Dave curious he and his mother shared similar tastes in music and film. Maybe there would be unlikely Common Ground here to he decided to make a project of his Discovery. He will delve into his mother's virtual stack of Saucy literature his words and maybe find one more thing. They had in common. It wasn't especially

2 (32m 45s):
taxing. No was only a fatty short kind of thing. It was a 90-minute to our Endeavor. So for a hundred days, On the run. I read a book a day.

1 (32m 60s):
Do you have a favorite title? Was there any title that stuck out to you as just either abominably bad or actually fantastically

2 (33m 7s):
good having a bit of both to be honest. And that's without doubt spanked by the Italian mob super because it does what it says on the page. It is literally about a girl who wants to be spanked by the Italian mob and that's the beginning the middle and the end. I mean this whole series to be honest of spanked by books was about six or seven. Wow, but this poor girl being spanked by variety of men.

1 (33m 41s):
I checked out the series by the way. It's by Alexis star. The actual title. Dave is thinking about is spanked by the Irish mob each book features a heroine looking for a spanking and getting it from the Yakuza a Navy SEAL and unaffiliated mob boss and others. As Dave read more books, he found himself enjoying some of them enough that he started to have a few favorites

2 (34m 5s):
opposing briefs was a was an mmm Roman quite personally think that's great quite like the playful nature of the title. That was written by Ian's been I did like that a great deal and the one called what was written by an you Omar called sexsomnia Sleepless in Manhattan, and that was very good indeed as well, which is a lighter tone. Lately left of an explicit nature to are

1 (34m 32s):
now that the hundred book challenge is over Dave has kept his mum's subscription going and he's still reading her books. They're a reminder that his mom was more than just his mom. She was a real whole person with her own quiet obsessions in reading these books. Do you feel is it helping? Is it in any way a bomb for

2 (34m 52s):
you? Yeah, because it keeps her spirit present, you know, you find yourself almost having a conversation whether why do you read them? You know, you read a particularly horrific and explicit alone. You think good grace mother? What are you doing? So yeah, you did just tend to extend that relationship and while we can never reverse what happens it does keep her memory more. Visit

1 (35m 25s):
according to Dave his mum was a homebody and in her eighth decade after a lifetime of working hard Gloria like to stay home watch a bit of Murder She Wrote and enjoy her smutty novels finding her library is a confirmation that his mum always did whatever the hell she wanted more than anything else. It just makes him admire her

2 (35m 46s):
more Their matter will need is one of the producers of our show coming up the hip bones connected to the actually it's not connected to anything in this case like nothing at all. That's in a minute. I'm just gonna go public radio when our program continues. Support for This American Life comes from State Farm State Farm agents know that sometimes life throws everything at you at once like a fender bender when you're already late when it comes to auto and home insurance State Farm agents are ready to help. You can talk to your State Farm agent via text over the phone in person or using the State Farm app, which is super handy with voice-activated commands that let you see your bill get claim updates or call an agent and with more than 19,000 agents.

2 (36m 40s):
There's one close to you find an agent at statefarm.com. And from the new Capital One Walmart Rewards Card, earn 5% back at Walmart online games for the kids headphones for Dad a laptop for Mom. Doesn't matter you get 5% back at Walmart online. You'll also earn 2% at Walmart in store at restaurants and on travel and 1% everywhere else when you want all that you need the Capital One Walmart Rewards Card what's in your wallet terms and exclusions apply Capital One. Ina This American Life from Ira Glass Today's Show digging up the bones stories of people unearthing things from the past trying to make sense of them.

2 (37m 24s):
We've arrived it at three of our show at three the case of the Curious bone David custom has this story about a man obsessed with a single bone a bone that is inexplicably large really just do big to make any sense out of at all. It was a fragment of a bone so old it had turned to stone. The man trying to puzzle it out was a naturalist and professor in England named Robert plot. He writes about it in this beautiful meticulous. Book The Natural History of Oxfordshire published in 1677. The Curious bone. He writes was quote dug out of a quarry in the Parish of Cornwell given to me by the ingenious Sir Thomas penniston. He writes that it seemed to be some part of a thigh bone except way too big.

2 (38m 8s):
It measured two feet and weighed almost 20 pounds. This is the 1600s and no one in the world that a good explanation for a bone that big plot rights for almost nine pages in this book about this strange bone and he is methodical and trying to reason out what the heck it is first. He considered the possibility that maybe it's not a bone at all. But just some natural rock formation, which is admirable. It's so easy to jump to conclusions. But the more he studies it it really does seem to be part of a colossal bone. He writes that it has the capita femoris inferiority and quote the seat of the strong ligament that rises out of the thigh and give safe passage to the vessels descending into the leg and then inside the bone.

2 (38m 54s):
There's what looks like marrow he can see the marrow preserved inside. But what in the world was it from? Quote it will be hard to find an animal proportionable 280 rights. He runs through the possibilities eliminating them one by one horse oxen too small. You consider something other people have suggested that maybe the bone is from an elephant. Perhaps brought over during the Roman invasions background fifty a d-- He spends two pages on this possibility, but it seems unlikely to him. He's clearly read through lots of historical accounts quote suetonius in his life where he is very particular concerning this Expedition into Britain mentions.

2 (39m 37s):
No such matter. There was one elephant is true. He writes sent as a present to King Henry the third from the King of France in the year 1233 five and perhaps two or three other elephants brought to England for show since then but quote whether it be likely any of these should be buried at Cornwell let the reader judge also if the bone is from an elephant, he writes where are the tusks finally as he's writing it he explains that an actual live elephant comes to town which examines and decides no l Thigh bone completely different shape definitely not elephant. And here you can feel I'm starting to piece things together.

2 (40m 17s):
He's on the edge of seeing this thing. He mentions other large bones after the great fire in London in 1666 under the wreckage of Saint Mary will Church quote. There was found a thigh bone now to be seen at the King's Head Tavern in Greenwich and Kent much bigger and longer than ours. And also people have been finding unusually large teeth. In fact people have been finding unusually large bones for centuries. There's one account by a Chinese scholar from the 300s BC, but none had a satisfying explanation. Is remarkable reading Robert plots book to think how close he was such a stunning fact about life on this planet, but you can know a lot and still not see sometimes you don't even know what you can't see you just can't imagine the possibility of it.

2 (41m 5s):
Even when you were holding the thing in your hand. By the end of the section of the book plot has reasoned out the one remaining possibility. The only thing that makes any sense to him the bones. They must have come from Giants people just a little bigger. Which I have to say. It's way more sensible than the truth. David casting bomb is executive editor of our program. Robert pot died in 1696. People didn't figure out the whole dinosaur thing for another hundred years. The bone pot puzzled over was lost a long time ago.

2 (41m 46s):
But from the drawings scientists think it was a Megalosaurus the good in Cornwall some 170 million years before him and yes,

3 (41m 54s):
I thighbone. Like for revision Quest

2 (42m 2s):
so we enter show today with somebody who dug up Bones from her past and then years later went back to the same site to dig them up again. Susan Burton explains

1 (42m 14s):
Jill's husband died a few years ago. They met in 1970 when Jill was 16 and he was 47 and in spite of the age difference. They were passionate about each other from the start. It was a happy marriage. That's one way to tell the story. Here's another Jill's husband died a few years ago. They met in 1970 when Jill was 16, and he was 47. She was his student and one evening after class. He kissed her. They started sleeping together. You might call him a predator or say he abused his power but everything turned out okay, it was a happy marriage Jill's a writer her full name is Jill cement and years ago when she was in her 40s.

1 (42m 57s):
She published a memoir that told the story the first way now she's writing that story again and considering it from the second angle not to correct the record. She's trying to understand why she wrote her story the way she did the first Memoir is called half a life the one she's writing now is

2 (43m 14s):
The other half when I wrote half a life rigidly. You know, I wrote this thing from the depth of my heart. I was supposedly telling the truth, which I really deeply believed I was but with the beginning of the me to movement, it was a kind of catalyst that made me think what if I told my story again from this vantage point from the vantage point of me being 66 in the vantage point of the world having completely changed.

1 (43m 45s):
Joe knew exactly where she wanted to start by writing down the story of their first kiss what she wrote about it when she was in her 40s is not how she remembers it today. Here's what she remembers today the night of that kiss Jill and Arnold her teacher were in an art studio. It was an evening class. Most of the other students were retirees. The class had ended and Jill was alone with Arnold

2 (44m 8s):
and for the past six months, he'd been doing things like saying I wish you were older and And you know not making sexual advances, but certainly making me aware. He was attracted to me and I was completely attracted to him and all I did was fantasize about him. And so we went into a studio supposedly. He was going to give me the names of people I was about to drop out of high school and moved to New York to be an artist and he was going to give me the names of other artists who would become maybe mentors or hire me as an assistant and as we got into the room, I remember he took my wrist. Pulled me towards him and we kissed and you know, I look back and I realized I hadn't written it that way.

2 (44m 53s):
Okay, I had written it as if I had been sexual aggressor.

1 (44m 58s):
Could you go ahead and read the how you describe the scene and half the life,

2 (45m 4s):
absolutely. On the last night of art class. I dawdled in the hall until the other students were finished the soon as they were gone. I slipped back into the classroom and shut the door behind me Arnold was leaning against the window frame arms folded. I shut yawning this time. I approached him without a hint of coyness without the spark of a blush. I am button the top three buttons of my peasant blouse. Cross the ink splattered floor and kissed him.

1 (45m 42s):
What why did you write it that way in

2 (45m 45s):
1996? I don't know. I think I viewed myself as and I always have I viewed myself as someone who was always in charge. I never felt powerless. And so maybe a way of illustrating that was to make me the sexual aggressor at least as far as the kiss went. But I have I don't honestly know I mean, that's why I'm writing this whole book to To figure out why it seemed the truth. Then I would never have done it purposely. Okay, it did seem the truth when I wrote it in 1996.

2 (46m 25s):
Why it seemed the truth there is what interests me.

1 (46m 30s):
One reason it seemed like the truth was that later when Jill and Arnold slept together for the first time. She was the one who seduced him. She certain of that they both were. But that first kiss

2 (46m 41s):
when I look back on it. He did instigate this and I don't know if I would have had the nerve at 16 and then later 17 to have acted upon all the things that I acted upon without him being the initial instigator.

1 (46m 60s):
In making yourself the instigator.

2 (47m 4s):
Were you protecting him? You know, I don't think so. Uh-huh. I think that I was trying to tell the truth of my own desire. I saw him. I wanted him and I went after him and I don't think I knew how to reconcile that with the idea that he kissed me

1 (47m 28s):
first. 40s Jill wanted to write a love story about love across a great age span this kind of story. It's almost always told from a man's point of view Jill wanted to write it from the perspective of the young woman and also not make her the victim and even though Jill still emphatically does not see herself as a victim some of the choices she made in writing her first Memoir seems startling to her now like her account of a letter Arnold center after they slept together. Dear Jill, are you ever coming back to class when she didn't respond? He called her and the first Memoir Jill plays the anecdote for

2 (48m 6s):
Laughs the first time it's treated like of course, it's funny what 47 year old man is going to write a little girl at her house when her mother can open the mail, but when I rewrote it this time what I saw was I saw a 47 year old man having made love to a 17. Old girl after which he doesn't hear from her for a month. He writes a letter to her house soliciting her again in this sort of, you know, fake love letter and when he doesn't hear back from that little girl again, he calls her now in today's world we would see that as a predator going after an underage girl and when I think about that, I'm totally shocked.

2 (48m 56s):
T' mmm I'm shocked. They didn't see that the first time. But you know the end of the story really really makes you change the beginning and so I think that that's part of it. I think that part of the reason that I wrote it this way is because I was having a wonderful marriage. And part of the reason I wrote it this way was because in 1970 when all this stuff was happening. It wasn't as appalling for an older man to do this.

1 (49m 30s):
Back in 1970. Nobody ever said to Jill that they saw anything appalling in Arnolds Behavior. At least not directly.

2 (49m 37s):
Here's the thing. I can't I mean I remember going to a party one time when we were first going out where the hostess served everyone a martini and me a glass of milk. So I'm I'm sure people noticed,

1 (49m 50s):
okay. When Joe looked back at the first book, she was struck by the part. She left out parts of scenes the Messier more revealing Parts, but other emissions to ones that are more profound like about her father who was the exact same age as Arnold. Most of the first book is actually about Joe's father. She only meets Arnold about two-thirds of the way through by that point her father had moved out. She rarely saw him. He was troubled and explosive and incapable of emotional connection. Absent from her life. I found her writing about him wrenching, but weirdly incomplete. It was just so clear that your art teacher was a substitute for your father in so many ways and you don't write explicitly about this in half a life.

1 (50m 39s):
And I wonder if you could talk about why

2 (50m 42s):
you know, I can't believe I didn't do it. I mean, I'm doing it now in this version it at 45 it seemed obvious and the obvious in those days. I believe made things less literary. God Knows Why okay, but that's what I believed and I just don't think it's true anymore. And I think the idea that a fatherless girl goes out and finds them a father and then uses that man to heal themself of having Never Been Loved by an older man. I mean, maybe I didn't know how to handle it at that age.

2 (51m 25s):
Maybe it was impossible to do while both my father. And my husband were alive.

1 (51m 32s):
What has re-examining your story like this done to to your picture of your husband or your memories of him or your perception of your marriage?

2 (51m 42s):
Well, I mean it it it changes the picture because I can't now look at him without realizing the lines that he crossed and at the same time. I'm really glad that we cross those lines. it's I really question a lot of these, you know, these these inferences that it is always wrong. It wasn't wrong for me and it will never change my feelings about it being an amazing marriage.

1 (52m 21s):
What what things do you say in the new book? That might have been hard for him to read?

2 (52m 27s):
Oh my God the whole thing. I mean I I would never have written this book if he was alive. I mean it would be so hurtful like in half a life. He seems you know, like he has always been a successful older man and to describe him as somebody who had a midlife crisis and was struggling to find himself again. I think would have been really painful for him to

1 (52m 56s):
read. Arnold was a painter. He was struggling as an artist when Jill met him but he flourished in the years that followed. It's interesting to hear you say that the thing Arnold would be hurt by is the depiction of him as a struggling middle-aged man and not

2 (53m 16s):
the

1 (53m 17s):
questions about his role as possible predator or aggressor.

2 (53m 25s):
I don't think he would I mean I don't think he ever thought of me, but maybe he did. Who knows? Okay, I think that he never thought of me as someone who wasn't as strong as him. Yeah, and so I think he would be I think he'd be shocked and surprised by these nuances in which I'm looking back at our relationship.

1 (53m 51s):
The questions Jill's asking about what she included in what she left out about what she realizes now that she didn't back then those questions interest me because their questions I'm asking myself right now, too. I'm almost exactly the same age as Jill was when she wrote half a life and I have a memoir coming out in a few months. The book tells the story of my adolescence, but I assume it reveals just as much if not more about who I am now at 46. Then who I was at 16. It's about the eating disorders that defined my teenage years and if I'm being honest my adulthood to until recently I'd never talked about this stuff with anyone.

1 (54m 34s):
So in that way the book is very exposing. But maybe what's not there is just as revealing. I know there's a lot I can't yet see and I wanted to talk to Jill about that. I know that if I'd you know, waited another five years. I would have understood more and and sometimes I wonder should I have waited to tell my story until I understood it better,

2 (54m 57s):
but I don't I don't think you and I don't think I understand my story any better than I did it 45. Okay. Yeah. I look back at my 45 year old self and I think oh my God, she she didn't have this information. I I see how young I was at 45. I look at my 45 year old self in much the same way that my 45 year-old self looked at my 16 year old self and it's you know, it's a kind of compassionate view of who you were before. You had all the information.

1 (55m 33s):
Yeah. When you think about yourself a 45, how do you see your 45 year old self now differently than she saw herself

2 (55m 45s):
at that point. I was still thinking about the ascent of life. You know, I was still moving in this this Forward Motion. I was you know at the maybe at the height of my powers. and when I look back at that, I realized how How delusional that is. You know, what happens is your writing at 45 from all the information experience that you've had. What I didn't have was the experience of taking my husband all the way to

1 (56m 22s):
death. In her new book Jill's not just exploring the beginning of her relationship. She's writing about the end of it to

2 (56m 29s):
you know, it's the second part of sleeping with your professor. It's the you know, the part, you know, where suddenly you go from being the young lover to the caretaker and that's an entirely different transition taking someone to death. That's the most extraordinary experience there is and so in some ways who kissed him first Seems really small in in the length of this

1 (56m 57s):
journey. Jill always thought that the more interesting way to write Memoir would be to return again and again to a Monumental moment in a life rather than telling the story in order all the way through revisiting a story doesn't necessarily make it any better. She says but it does make it different. Even when we read about the past, we're always telling a story about the present whether we mean to or

3 (57m 23s):
not. Susan Burton is one of the producers of our show

2 (57m 37s):
just immense latest book is a novel called the body in the question.

3 (57m 44s):
I'm Digging Up Bones. I'm digging up on assuming things. That's better left alone Rebecca my spirits today by

2 (57m 56s):
Emanuel Barry and Neil druckmann.

3 (57m 57s):
And people put a show together today include be metal with me on a baker Susan

2 (58m 1s):
Burton Ben Calhoun DNA chip is Sean cold in her grave. Michelle Harris said blind Jessica lessin happening in meeteetse is Catherine raimondo. Naughty Raymond, Robin semyon, Christopher's were tall and Mattoon a are managing editors Diane whoo, or

3 (58m 12s):
executive editors David

2 (58m 13s):
kestenbaum special. Thanks. Today - Teresa and Ryan Hinds our website This American Life dot-org. We can stream our Archive of over 680 episodes for absolutely free and there's videos and favorites lists and tons of other stuff there, too. Again, this American life.org This American Life stupid a public radio stations by PRX the public radio exchange support for This American Life comes from the Lagunitas Brewing Company feeling stories and songs with Lagunitas IPA. And of course committed to give me the pub in public radio find out more won't you had a lot going to need us.com X is always 0 programs co-founder. Mr. Troy Mountain to you know, you know, we're running to an appointment this week on this 50 story skyscraper step first of the

3 (58m 57s):
If it's

2 (58m 57s):
story where we thought our appointment was we were sure it was 45 wasn't right. Then we looked at 44 and 46 and 42 and 48. I was confused about which story he was confused about which story I don't think I understand my story any better than I did it 45. I'm Ira Glass back next week

3 (59m 16s):
with more stories of This American Life Digging Up Bones exhuming things that's better left alone. I'm resurrect and memories of love that's dead and gone. Yeah tonight. I'm setting along picking up own. Yeah tonight. I'm setting along Digging Up Bones. boom

2 (59m 48s):
next week on This American Life

1 (59m 50s):
a big running theme was Bob's importance particularly in Brazil

2 (59m 55s):
the Epic story of a building super

1 (59m 58s):
and he claimed that there was a clause in the constitution of Brazil that gave him immunity from any prosecution whatsoever and that in fact, he could as he put it Go and Kill the President

3 (1h 0m 10s):
and he would still be immune

2 (1h 0m 12s):
that's here in the podcast or on your local public radio

3 (1h 0m 15s):
station.