3 (1s):
Support for This American Life comes from Capital One Capital One is reimagining banking by offering accounts with no fees or minimums that can be opened from anywhere in five minutes Capital One. What's in your wallet Capital One and a A quick warning. There are curse words that are unbeaten today's episode of the show. If you prefer a beeped version, you can find that at our website This American Life dot-org. Well getting kind of old in my family and we get together for the holidays. There's never any drama anymore used to be. I've already coming in for years all through my 20s and early 30s because my parents and I were not getting along.

3 (42s):
So well part of the problem was me in my early 20s. I was harsh and judgy and said lots of things that now I went ahead and have apologized for but part of the problem was them they did not agree with most of my big Life Choices starting with and especially the fact that I worked in public radio during that period I was working for the MPR news shows all things considered Morning Edition and my parents were completely against it. I've said this before in my parents hate it when I say this, but my parents are the only Jews in America who don't like public radio the stories were too long. It seems second-rate to them if I wanted to be a journalist. Why wasn't I on TV? Why was I settling for this place? That paid me so little the money was a huge thing.

3 (1m 23s):
My dad is an accountant does all our taxes and so he knew what I made and couldn't quite believe it. I could still earn a good living somewhere. I could still be a doctor. So coming home for the holidays. Sometimes my dad would pull me aside. Sometimes you would bring it up during dinner at a crowded table. Should I quit these jobs? I love and finally go to med school. It's not too late. My parents pleaded with me. Well into my 30s my mom officially

4 (1m 48s):
kind of half-joking have serious gave up the

3 (1m 50s):
effort when I was 41 and had been hosting This American Life for five years. But for so long my dad especially would Express his love and concern for me when I came home by questioning, you know the basics where I lived how I behaved how I dressed how my hair looked who I fell in love with why wasn't I more of a success to be clear? He wasn't mean he wasn't angry. He was just very very concerned. My sister's Randy and Karen. They got their own versions of this so holidays. Yeah things that get very tense which is to say We were a normal family. But now it couldn't be more different.

3 (2m 32s):
My mom died over a decade ago. My dad is in his 80s and the last couple of years. He's had a lot of hearing loss. It's harder to interact with him. He is not the critical questioning man. He once was I got home now and nothing's bothering him about me. He needs to get off his chest. He's been trained over the years to say. I love you when we talk on the phone or see each other and he actually seems to mean it. He's lovely. But I am not used to this milder gentler version of the overworked stressed out dad that I grew up with. It's like that guy. I don't know it dissolved away that whole side of his personality leaving another man standing there. And I have to say is this bad to admit?

3 (3m 13s):
Sometimes I missed that other guy I go home for the holidays and it's chill and everybody gets along and I never thought I say this. I swear I never thought these words would come out of my mouth. I wish he would pick a fight with me. I feel like that's my real dad this elderly guy with the same name who likes and accepts the person that I'm in love with and in fact notices if she leaves her glasses in the dining room, then hopefully brings him to her in the kitchen just to be nice that guy he's awesome. But where's my real? Add and this BS of going home for the holidays and not having anything to fight about it all I mean our lives over our we already dead. That's it. We're done. No fighting are we really a family

4 (3m 52s):
anymore

3 (3m 54s):
today on our program? We have families boisterously noisily getting into it with each other kids coming home with important stuff. They've been waiting to get off their chests parents showing up at their grown children's houses with demands that absolutely need to be met and then let the games begin for the holidays. It is a family get-together episode of our show including a song sung at a family event that either is or is not a valid critique of one family member in particular from WBEZ Chicago. It's This American

4 (4m 27s):
Life. I'm Ira Glass

3 (4m 29s):
stay with

4 (4m 30s):
us

3 (4m 39s):
that one. How do I say this? So we begin today with somebody returning to the family in the suburbs out in the Far West in Canada in Calgary Alberta, and she is returning with a mission something she needed to discuss in English though. The thing she wanted to discuss was a different language entirely the person doing this is such

1 (4m 60s):
ecole nine months ago after 28 years of being alive. I finally started taking Hindi classes. My parents are both from India and they emigrated to Canada long before I was born. Orn they speak a number of languages including Hindi and their mother tongue kashmiri, but there's no real textbook organized class or Duolingo program for a kashmiri. Hindi proved to be the easiest one for me to learn. I'm not enjoying these lessons. I've said out loud in class several times that I hate it. I hate it because it's hard harder than I expected because for some reason I thought this language would come naturally and yet for two hours every week. I meet my teacher and fellow classmate at a coffee shop in Midtown Manhattan and learn how to greet someone and tell them what I am presently eating and that the cat is sitting in the big chair.

1 (5m 50s):
Sometimes the cat is sitting on the

2 (5m 52s):
little chair.

1 (5m 54s):
Learning to say that has cost me $1,150 thus

2 (5m 58s):
far. I started these lessons on a whim

1 (6m 6s):
I knew for years that I wanted to do it but I didn't give much thought as to why I assumed my parents would be happy about it. Not even just happy elated. My dad has said to me more than once you're barely recognizable when he says it he means I'm not recognizable to him as the person he wanted me to be the person who would never for example have married a white. Man much older than she is or refused a career in medicine or smoked at least 800 cigarettes. But I don't know if my learning Hindi even matters to my parents or how much I also don't know why they never made me learn it in the first place. So I went home to find out.

1 (6m 47s):
Hey Google play something

4 (6m 49s):
by

1 (6m 51s):
Gary J. Devi. Here's a Spotify station featuring jastrow. Stay be when I visit my parents. We don't usually do much more than sit together in the living room and Alternate between joking and fighting we're all indoor cats. Hey, Google Finally got the Mughal home foolishly thinking they Delight in being able to boss it around. They've had it for a day and have been characteristically hostile to it. Hey, Google. No, that's wrong. Yeah, you are Buzzy. She didn't say she was Buzzy. She said she was buggy. What does that mean? Like she has a bug my parents have long converted my childhood bedroom into a sorry storage facility, but it's still home.

1 (7m 36s):
There's nothing more comforting. Owing to me than my mom accusing an inanimate object of being against her the thing is that a cyst because I keep telling play button and it doesn't play budget when the Google home fails to play the devotional song. My mom requests she curses at it. And I finally recognized one of the few kashmiri words. I know from my childhood that what you said pay it that as my mom said, it's her saying that she hopes lightning hits the Google home. The insults my parents use are the part of their language. I absolutely know I can help you call. Someone lazy dumb loud annoying rude ugly. But the one I know best is that you say it when you're mad or shocked or when someone's cooking is so excellent.

1 (8m 22s):
You just can't help but want them to get hit by lightning my dad eventually gives up on trying to teach the Google home kashmiri and settles on something. She knows. Hey Google play Frank

4 (8m 33s):
Sinatra. You have to say please to

1 (8m 36s):
her. No, she's a robot. I mean, it's nice, but it's not necessary. That's my main man.

3 (8m 47s):
Isn't he?

4 (8m 49s):
I should have a cigarette and I

1 (8m 50s):
whiskey noun 1

4 (8m 53s):
smoking jacket. It's 10:00 in the morning. Okay, this is 10 p.m. Somewhere.

1 (9m 6s):
Later that night my mom host a party for my brother's 40th birthday, and she's cooked her usual dinner party spread the Malu Rogan Josh, but the hawk dripping and oil happy birthday.

2 (9m 20s):
Thank you.

1 (9m 22s):
I have all these questions for my parents. But first I want to talk to my brother the only other person in the world who understands what I'm getting myself into I call my brother. But yeah, meaning older brother. He's 12 years older than me and was born in India kashmiri is his first language and though he understands it when it's spoken to him. He lost the ability to speak at himself soon after he moved to Canada as a toddler. He doesn't remember anyone trying to get him to speak kashmiri instead of

4 (9m 50s):
English. But nobody said anything to me, or maybe they did and I just said I just want to watch Three's Company. Thank you very

1 (9m 56s):
much. That is how my brother learned English reruns of Three's Company consequently. He has a very complex understanding of tenant protection rights. My brother affirms one thing I remember to be true when we were kids. It was deeply uncool to speak Hindi or kashmiri. We knew lots of Indian kids who spoke their parents language. They were dutiful good polite. I was saying yes, Auntie Han jie, but we also knew that those kids were fucking dorks and worthy of our Eyre. We were never dutiful. Back, then I envied my brother. He's fair skinned with angular features and a phonetic name. He could always hide in plain sight.

1 (10m 38s):
I used to wish I could do the same. My brother is married. He lives 20 minutes away from my parents and he has a nine-year-old daughter that I call raisin. She is the best person in the world. Raisin is biracial her mother is white and she's light-skinned with bright blue eyes. She doesn't speak into your kashmiri with the exception of naming her favorite foods. And even though my brother could do something about her slim language skills. He hasn't why haven't you put her in those classes. She doesn't want to do it. Yeah, but she's nice want to do anything. I don't think she wants to wash her but like but I

4 (11m 13s):
don't want to I also don't I'm super lazy. So if it's like the the reality is driving to them under it 8:30 on a Sunday that's not going to happen. I can barely get her to the karate

1 (11m 24s):
something she is interested in as for my brother. He's not likely to sign up for a class himself. Despite having the urge just like I do

4 (11m 32s):
do I think about practicing yell all the time. But I just don't.

2 (11m 39s):
Why not?

4 (11m 41s):
I don't because our parents are merciless when you try to learn something new and I'm not interested in giving them more fodder for jokes.

1 (11m 49s):
What do you mean that their merciless about Troy? Like when you ever

4 (11m 52s):
tried to speak a language that they

1 (11m 54s):
know in front of them? Yeah. Yeah. How'd that go? Yeah, exactly. I'd say it's a spicy experience.

4 (12m 5s):
That doesn't mean anything to me. But okay.

1 (12m 7s):
Do you think that we turned out the way he wanted that he like went.

3 (12m 13s):
No, I

4 (12m 13s):
don't think we did at all.

1 (12m 16s):
If we didn't turn out the way our dad wanted us to well my dad Bears a lot of responsibility for that for one thing instead of forcing us to learn Hindi. He made us learn French. Why instead of making me take like Hindi classes at the temple. Did you decide? Oh, I know. I'm going to put them in French immersion for some reason because

4 (12m 39s):
Canada is a bilingual Country and I was hoping that the Hindi would come

3 (12m 46s):
automatically because at home and other

1 (12m 52s):
Indians, my dad is loquacious and rye and thinks he's the smartest person in the room. He's also stubborn as hell and so am I which means we're often trying to murder each other after I first got together with the man who would become my husband the way older white guy my dad didn't talk to me for a year. When I first asked him how he feels about me taking these classes. He says typical self dismissive and Globe. What did you think when I started taking the Hindi classes?

4 (13m 21s):
I was amused since you do whatever you want to do. I thought

3 (13m 25s):
maybe okay good.

1 (13m 28s):
What does that mean? I do whatever I want to do

4 (13m 30s):
because you are a very independent minded person. You do not take any instruction or anything. So I was glad that at least you're doing something for your betterment because

3 (13m 46s):
like I said

1 (13m 49s):
having knowledge of another language. Can never hurt you. Don't be fooled by his detached attitude about whether I speak Hindi he has other feelings as well. Depending on the day. He used to get upset about it. When I was younger. Sometimes he would speak to me in kashmiri and quickly get frustrated that I could barely understand it and couldn't respond. He gave that up after I moved out but ever since I started my Hindi classes he's trying again now when I call my mother you'll barge into our calls and demand that she speak to me in Hindi and kashmiri. I had to ask him the same question over and over again before he finally admits that yes, he's absolutely thrilled at the idea of me learning Hindi and hopefully one day you will

3 (14m 39s):
converse with somebody in Hindi. And you should go to India

4 (14m 48s):
I'll go with you but let you

3 (14m 50s):
lead so that you can speak with taxi drivers or autorickshaw drivers or shopkeepers and try to haggle with them in Hindi.

4 (15m 3s):
I bet you it'll be hilarious will be wonderful.

1 (15m 8s):
Were you surprised that I started taking lessons?

3 (15m 12s):
Yeah, I was because you were both you kids were extremely whitewashed. Maybe

4 (15m 25s):
I

1 (15m 25s):
have I had something to do with I didn't purposely do that exactly what my dad had to do with that goes all the way back to his arrival in Canada. This is who my dad was when me and my brother were kids a hundred and twenty five pounds five foot four ambitious. Working hard as a pharmaceutical representative. It was also we would eventually have all you could ever want house two cars a yard University education's we were middle class in Canada all with traditional Hindu names. It was the Indian dream. We didn't have much family near us in Calgary. I didn't go to school with any other brown kids until I was well into High School my brother and cousin spoke to each other and me and English my father had this idea that we'd pick up Hindi at home, but that's ridiculous.

1 (16m 17s):
My parents spoke kashmiri in English. Hindi was reserved for Bollywood movies and when my mom needed to speak to her Jeweler what form of Osmosis is my dad even talking about I thought

4 (16m 30s):
that

3 (16m 30s):
this language mother tongue

4 (16m 32s):
specifically

3 (16m 35s):
would come later on and I should concentrate on you. Being totally assimilated with the Canadian culture if you will whatever that culture is, but somehow I should have created some sort of infrastructure where you would be you learn and the at least proficient in one of the languages Indian languages. That is

1 (17m 10s):
why didn't you make me take lessons for either Hindi or kashmiri?

4 (17m 16s):
I

3 (17m 16s):
don't know. I don't know why. I ought to have done it.

1 (17m 30s):
I don't think my dad is equipped to directly talk about how hard it was to leave India. My mom can talk about her sadness easily as if all those feelings are still right at the surface of her skin waiting to bleed out of her and drown me.

3 (17m 45s):
I had to say goodbye to my dad and my mother

1 (17m 49s):
that was very hard.

3 (17m 52s):
Very very hard.

1 (17m 55s):
My dad was the family's sole Breadwinner and in her early days in Canada. My mother was alone a lot with my brother just a toddler. She noticed he was losing his kashmiri three or four months after they arrived and I will talk to him in cash media and he'll answer to me in English and he said okay. This is it. He's not going to say anything back now and I would push him and saying kashmiri and he would say it in English. He would not say So then why didn't you push him to keep it up? Well, how can you make him to push how can you make him to speak?

1 (18m 38s):
When be a got a little older my mother and father considered signing him up for Hindi classes and it turns out their reason for not doing so is the exact same practical yet. Lazy one. My big brother gives about raisin Papa said this Sunday I'm morning. I don't want to get up at 10 o'clock and take him to Hindi school. That was the only because in the schools. That's what the time she Sunday is the only day when I have a day off, so and I was not that Confident Driving that Name on the Deerfoot in wintertime. So that's how fell apart My mother says that years later they actually put me in Hindi classes.

1 (19m 23s):
I was maybe five then she says that I'd want her out of class, which was held in the basement of our mother and would Trot up the stairs to find her. I don't remember this at all. They stop trying to force it at the time. I'm sure I was thrilled that they left it alone. I pushed against brownness in every way. I could I recoiled when my white friends would call and over here. My parents speaking kashmiri in the background. I didn't want to invite them over because they could smell sandalwood and the curtains I resented my unpronounceable first name and passively let people call me Sasha her Sarah her scratchy or sushi or whatever examples of Gentile racism were permeating my life.

1 (20m 7s):
Are you disappointed that I can't speak kashmiri and I can't speak Hindi. I wouldn't say disappointed but I feel sad that it would have me nice because sometimes I if I want to tell you something when I had to change the language, it loses its what I want to tell you so that time I'm really frustrated as I wish she could understand what I am trying to tell her. Sometimes I could see my mom struggling to find the right word to convey the right feeling as she always felt a gap between what she wanted to tell me and what I was able to grasp when I moved away for University.

1 (20m 55s):
I worried my mom would be lonely. I resented that I worried about her but I wondered who my mom would talk to when I left home. I never considered that maybe the language we were speaking left her feeling lonely before I even moved away. Did you want Me and Bo to assimilate in Canada. Yeah. Did we assimilate too much? Well, I haven't say yes or no to that. mmm It would have been nice if or little bit state to do

3 (21m 38s):
towards your heritage towards your culture.

1 (21m 43s):
but I guess it was supposed to happen and it It's nothing I can do about it. This idea from both of my parents makes me nuts. Of course. There's something she could have done about it. I know that my parents made the best choices they had at the time now though. I feel like I missed out on something that I desperately want. I wish I could have spoken to your mom when she was alive. I wish that too. I mean did that did she say anything to you about that that she couldn't speak to her grandchildren? Yeah, she used to cry and cry and cry and she says I I cannot speak to them and they don't understand me and I wish I could talk to them.

1 (22m 30s):
So it was it was hard. It was shame that. Hey, you guys couldn't talk to her. She would have been overwhelmed if you would say just a few words. Now it is all gone. So it doesn't matter now. anything else Of course, there's something else there's always something else. What are we making first? You said you wanted to see how we cook green beans, right?

1 (23m 12s):
Yeah cooking is the only place where I don't know the English equivalency of most words evidenced by how many times I go to the grocery store and ask for I'm rude or a light G and struggle to Neighborhood English in the kitchen. My pronunciation is Flawless. And for once I don't feel like a fraud when I speak in Hindi or kashmiri when I was a kid. I wouldn't even let my mom pack me Indian food for lunch. No one wants to be different in a Grade School cafeteria. Then I moved away for University and I realized all I wanted was my mom's cooking. I wanted her to braid my hair and rub my back and wax my mustache off for me all these blips of intimacy with her.

1 (23m 55s):
I once had I've been learning how to make her food ever since my beans always turn out weird boy. I don't know they get too salty. T

2 (24m 5s):
did you up looking for my sauce? Yeah, Mom. I don't know. How is that helpful.

1 (24m 14s):
My Hindi after a few months of lessons is finally good enough that I can have slivers of conversations with my parents. Recently, they visited me in New York and on a walk with my husband barely two feet ahead of us. My mother told me in Hindi your husband has no butt. One day my parents will die and when that happens, we'll all forget the insults and the sounds and the way my mom rolls her ours. I can't even imagine how lonely I'll be without her sounds.

1 (24m 54s):
Maybe it'll hurt less if I learn how to make these sounds on my own. For now, I'm still stumbling over how to say I love you to my mother in her mother tongue. Maybe

2 (25m 7s):
they just

1 (25m 10s):
meet me chat. Shh, but a course Crush gotta run. meet Chuck subotica - Cara my checks about Akash Grand mama.

2 (25m 29s):
Thank you.

1 (25m 33s):
My mom now tells me constantly how proud she is that I'm trying to learn Hindi more than anything. That's what keeps me going to class.

4 (25m 52s):
Sachiko, she writes about

3 (25m 53s):
culture for BuzzFeed news and she's also the author of a collection of essays one day. We'll all be dead and none of this will matter.

2 (26m 4s):
Baby, you understand me now. If sometimes you see that I'm mad don't you know, no one alive can always be an angel. When everything goes wrong you see some bad, but I'm just a soul whose intentions are

3 (26m 44s):
coming up. They didn't mean it. They really didn't mean it. They really really didn't mean it. Anyway, that's what they say mother and daughter. And the song they chose to sing at a very significant family event. That's in a minute from Chicago public radio when our program continues Support for This American Life comes from Capital One. Capital One Wants To Build a Better Bank one that feels and acts nothing like a typical bank. So they're reimagining banking. They offer one of the nation's best savings rates and accounts with no fees or minimums that can be open from anywhere in five minutes. That's banking reimagined Capital One.

3 (27m 25s):
What's in your wallet Capital One and a This American Life and Ira Glass each week in the program. Of course, you choose the theme bring you different kinds of stories on that theme Today's Show too close to home for the holidays stories of family get-togethers where somebody shows up with something. They think the entire family has to deal with or at least discuss and the ready to force the issue. We have arrived in Act 2 of our program back to you probably think this song is about you. So in this act to family members show up with the message the message is contained in a song which makes Sense because the family includes a bunch of musicians the dad and this family is loud and rain, wait the third song writers started putting out albums in the 1970s.

3 (28m 6s):
He is father to singer-songwriters Rufus Wainwright and Martha Wainwright and with a different mom Lucy Wainwright roach was his mom is Susie roach who got some notoriety in the band the roaches who's in size e came into the studio to tell the story of this song

1 (28m 23s):
we sing this one actually at at one of my dad's weddings

3 (28m 27s):
to be precise her dad will Didn't hit got married for the second time. And this was a party to celebrate it maybe 50 people who see went with her. Mom says he who never been married to Loudon, but they were together for years

1 (28m 39s):
and he asked us if we wanted to sing something and we said sure and then he was like, okay. Well, you know pick whatever you feel like singing and surprise us and we'd been learning this song. That was a cover song that we just really liked and sometimes when you're learning a new song you kind of have a little crush on the Song so you just want to sing it all the time. And so we were like let's just do that that new one

3 (29m 2s):
that we've been learning and we we just didn't really think it through.

1 (29m 8s):
Yeah, I would say that that's an understatement. I don't know what we were thinking. I mean it was one of those kind of situations where you're standing in front of a room full of people and they all have their champagne glasses and they're looking at you smiling and you start to sing the song and so just imagine that you're at a wedding and Yeah, he's either going to sing and you got your champagne and and then and then this

3 (29m 33s):
happens. All right. Well, let's hear the

1 (29m 35s):
song.

2 (29m 49s):
Desperado, why don't you come to your senses, even our riding fences for so long. Oh, you're a hard one. I know that you've got your reasons. These things that are pleasing you can hurt you

3 (30m 14s):
somehow. Okay, so at this point, what are they thinking?

1 (30m 20s):
I feel like as soon as you sing as Desperado people think oh, oh, they're talking about Loudon. I bet more than anything. They felt like what

3 (30m 31s):
is happening right now? Like is this? Okay. Is this a message? It's a slightly hostile thing to sing at your father's wedding or your ex's

1 (30m 42s):
wedding, but we were thinking

2 (30m 46s):
gg7. C minor

1 (30m 54s):
and basically concentrating on playing it because I didn't you know know it that

3 (30m 60s):
well, okay. Keep going don't you

2 (31m 3s):
draw the Queen of Diamonds? She'll beat you if she's able, you know, the Queen of Hearts is always your best bet now. It seems to me some fine things have been laying upon on your table, but you only want the ones that you can't give

4 (31m 28s):
what do you think people thought at that point?

1 (31m 31s):
I think that

3 (31m 33s):
is the most cringey line in the song

1 (31m 38s):
in this contact. Yes. Yeah seems to me some fine things have been laid upon your table and you only want the ones that you can't get. I mean that seems rude you Often hear

3 (31m 52s):
a wedding toast that says like and

1 (31m 54s):
what I love about him is lucky you he never wants the things he can get that's not

3 (32m 1s):
no. I haven't heard that

1 (32m 3s):
but I think that's the low point of what we've done

3 (32m 7s):
here. Let's go into the next verse Oh You Ain't Gettin. No younger right. This is the I would say, this is the second to worst

1 (32m 16s):
line of the song this for

2 (32m 20s):
Morado, oh You Ain't Gettin no younger your pain and your hunger are driving you home and freedom. Oh, that's just some people talking your present is walking through this world all alone.

3 (32m 50s):
So how do you think people might have heard

1 (32m 51s):
that it's so sad. That is so sad. It is so sad.

3 (32m 57s):
Now the line you ain't getting no younger. How old was your dad old he

1 (33m 4s):
was not getting any

3 (33m 5s):
younger. So you're singing this and you're looking around at the faces. What are you seeing? It didn't feel like it was the most well-received we thing we'd ever done.

1 (33m 20s):
Yeah, I mean there was a kind of a feeling of being looked at without a lot of expression which is sometimes not a great sign. I think they were probably thinking of thought that I think a lot when something happens that is uncomfortable

3 (33m 41s):
and when Like that is happening. Like just make the right kind of face. And this would be over. Sure. Yes, like just make sure your face is right. I

1 (33m 53s):
mean the truth of it is that nobody has ever mentioned it again to us to this

3 (34m 1s):
day. Yeah. What did he say afterwards? Nothing. Did he say thank you.

1 (34m 7s):
No, not really. No the horrible thing about this is that That people must have felt like we were doing something

3 (34m 17s):
passive-aggressive or aggressive

1 (34m 21s):
made and the sad thing is we were completely oblivious and I know that that probably sounds like maybe it's not true and unconsciously we had some sort of thing. We were doing perhaps but it didn't feel like that at all, but I think then after that a couple of years later when we first performed the song in the show I might have said to the audience for the first time. Oh, actually we sang this once at my dad's

3 (34m 48s):
wedding and then they're the absurdity of that really hit us,

1 (34m 53s):
right and also the song kind of turns into a comedy instead of you know, the Beautiful song that it is.

3 (34m 60s):
It's hear a recording from one of those concerts.

2 (35m 7s):
Why don't you come to your senses?

3 (35m 11s):
It's weird that you can get a song like this to play as

1 (35m 13s):
comedy. I mean people get hysterical when they hear it in that context, which makes it obvious that there was something strange about it

2 (35m 24s):
seems to me some fine things have been laid upon your table, but you only want the ones that you can't give - that's right. No, you ain't getting no younger your pain. Well, here's the other thing about it. I don't know if I

1 (35m 49s):
should say this but I mean on the one hand it's a terrible thing to sing at a wedding

3 (35m 55s):
and at that wedding, but on the other hand, it's kind of the perfect thing to sing at that wedding. I know how do you mean it's the perfect thing to sing?

1 (36m 3s):
Well because you're basically the lyrics if you really study them are Actually saying you've got to let somebody love you.

3 (36m 10s):
So you're saying unconsciously maybe it was the perfect pick for the

1 (36m 14s):
wedding right? I'm starting to change my mind on this whole thing and say that yes, of course we meant to sing this song. I'm

3 (36m 22s):
not

1 (36m 26s):
when I see what it's actually saying what it says to me if there is a subconscious message that we were aiming at Loudon or I'll speak for myself me. Is just you know, I see you I see what you've been through and I see your pain and we're happy for you that you found somebody to be with.

3 (36m 47s):
Assessing Lucy roach. The version of Desperado is on their album mud and apples lose. His most recent album is little beast. I think by the way check with Lowden. So these acts and Lucy's dad to see what he thought about Desperado as their choice of song at the party since they really had no idea at all and I'm dummy he definitely remembered it.

4 (37m 6s):
Oh, yes. Yes.

3 (37m 9s):
I remember thinking it was hilariously funny and ironic and I thought it was a kind of a really

4 (37m 17s):
ironic cool choice of a song to

2 (37m 20s):
do your mother's lose your father's slim. She Smothers you you bother him passed back and forth between those two until they've had enough of you. Another bundle comes along but by this time something's gone wrong awake all night deprived of sleep. It's overload their In Too Deep, then she forgets to take a pill overload is overkill what?

2 (38m 7s):
What our families for

3 (38m 9s):
music from guarding remai third, which brings us to act three of our show act three pigeons on a plane. So we have one more family member on a mission for you today. And this mission was made possible by a government official a government official in Mexico namely the Secretary of migration in the Mexican state of Michoacan and a little while back this officially started to hear that lots of elderly people in Mexico were dying. Without being able to see their kids because the kids are giving the United States and we're undocumented and the kids didn't have the papers to cross in and out of Mexico migration secretary wanted to help and he set up a program to help these elderly Mexicans with families in the u.s.

3 (38m 50s):
Get tourist visas. They are special days at the US Embassy for them to apply buses to take them to the Embassy and then the organize these trips these trips. Were they fly them to the United States en masse These early people get regular tourist visas with the same rules as any other tourist visas, but good for 10 years so they can come and go and see their kids and grandkids in the US have to be 60 years old qualify for the program and since 2017 over 9,000 people have come to the state's this way. Not one of them were told as ever overstayed a Visa over a dozen other Mexican states have created their own versions of the program. It makes you work on the elderly Travelers are known as Palomas men's ahead us the messenger.

3 (39m 32s):
Jin's reporter Kevin sieve tagged Along on one of their trips started in Mexico and flew to the US with

2 (39m 38s):
them.

4 (39m 43s):
I'm standing with a group of 70 elderly Paloma Samantha Harris. They're all wearing matching t-shirts and have lanyards around their necks with these big clear pouches holding their Airport tickets and passports. It. Looks like a giant group of really old school children. To make sure no one's wandered off the chaperones take roll. Call my dear God if he has Montes

1 (40m 2s):
Oka Victoria go Daniel Garcia, Victoria Martini roses, Maria Guadalupe nari the Cente.

4 (40m 10s):
We're at a small airport in central Mexico. The people in this group have some very specific things in common. None of them has ever flown in an airplane before and they are all headed to Chicago to see their kids for the first time in more than a decade the biggest migration. From Mexico happened in the 1990s nearly five million people by the end of the decade. The Exodus was especially big in a city called ciudad Hidalgo where these parents are from by 1998 roughly 10 percent of the City's population was living in Chicago today the kids who crossed the border as teenagers and twenty-somethings are middle-aged undocumented immigrants with Children of their own US citizen children who've never met their

2 (40m 52s):
grandparents.

4 (40m 57s):
Those are the grandparents. I'm with now. They board the plane slowly so slowly as you'd expect on a flight where almost everyone is elderly on canes and Wheelchairs and utterly unaccustomed to air travel sort of chaotic. Now. There's everyone's boarding a lot of confusion about where people are sitting

2 (41m 17s):
woman's asking am I in the right seat sister, right? See

4 (41m 20s):
she's actually in the wrong

2 (41m 21s):
seat.

4 (41m 24s):
The parent I ended up talking to the most was a mom named Lupita nari at 67. She was one of the younger parents on the trip. She sat in the front of the plane in a window seat wearing a yellow dress and heels and bright pink lipstick.

1 (41m 37s):
It was not going to stop but all I know get a Camila

4 (41m 45s):
she's saying she expected the plane to move like a truck, but it didn't Lupita son Daniel and daughter Mary Lou have been in Chicago for almost 20 years for you guys. You've only been able to talk over the phone. Is there anything you've been waiting to talk to them about and

1 (42m 1s):
person quality European. So well, you know, I am kind of course get there and then I'm going to greet my children and my grandchildren but then there are some things that we're going to have to talk about once we're at home about what they are going to Because I want my kids to come here to be with me because I'm all alone here. Yes. I think I'm equally okey-dokey.

4 (42m 29s):
In fact, this was her mission for the trip, like parents everywhere. She wants to convince her children to move back home for months. We've been preparing what to say practicing her pitch in the mirror.

1 (42m 41s):
See there was a bloody goes a little yeah. I mean I actually will like talk to myself. I'll say okay. Well, are you going to stay here forever, or are you now? To come back because I'm you know, I've said this before but Chicago isn't your Homeland this is your Homeland and you've already had the opportunity to enjoy Chicago to work there. But now it's time to come back to please come back so that you can be with me Devon to Puerto Rico Libre bent about

4 (43m 11s):
this won't be news to her kids. She's brought it up before. How often do you bring it up over the

1 (43m 16s):
phone? Which one was it? How about three times a year? I don't do it too much because I might get hung up on what was going on Madeline. It's very touchy to talk to you about that kind of stuff over the phone because my son he'll get upset and he says well mom if I'm earning money to help you then if I come back there to be with you. How are we going to live and I tell him well, you know from your perspective you're seeing it as something that so impossible but It's not, you know, save up some money over there so that you can come back here without needing to go back to the United States. And yes, maybe we'll live humbly and we'll be eating beans and eggs, but you at least be here in your home and my son says well, I'll think about it Mom.

1 (44m 3s):
I'll think about it. See my medals depends on the movies seamless whipping sound

4 (44m 7s):
like a lot of the parents. I talked to Lupita never expected Daniel and Mary Lou to be gone for so long at most just a few years save some money and then come back to Mexico. That was the original plan. Daniel even bought a calendar and penciled in the day when he would return

3 (44m 23s):
but they kept pushing back deadlines telling

4 (44m 24s):
her they needed to save more money then they had children and houses and dogs and Friends it got harder to leave. Lupita was losing her patience. She'd been living alone since her husband died four years ago of cancer. She wanted her kids with her

1 (44m 39s):
those medicine kill has a TMP told me Mom. Just give me time. Just give me time and I say but I've already given you a lot of time. It was just one of your hitha

4 (44m 49s):
Lupita had another son Isaac who moved to the US and died of pneumonia a few years ago. She never had the chance to say. Goodbye. Even over the phone. It made her feel like that could be her die. Dying without them. She wanted the kids back

1 (45m 4s):
now

4 (45m 7s):
Daniel was the first to leave Mexico back in 1999. He got a job as a dishwasher and then kept working his way up to bartending at fancy restaurants Mari Lou joined Daniel in Chicago soon after she was a single mom with five kids who needed more money for her family. She took cleaning jobs in Chicago. Now, she works three jobs, including back-to-back night shifts cleaning it a restaurant and health clinic. Lupita says when she's brought up coming home on the phone. She's been pretty gentle. She thinks in person. It'll all be different. She'll be more aggressive and her kids will really have to hear her out. Her plan was to wait until she'd been in Chicago for about a week before springing this conversation on them

1 (45m 48s):
out of my retirement. So you gotta just wait till till everything is calm because I do it immediately then it'll be like dumping a bucket of cold water on their heads and that might scare them off. Oh my little Waffle. Yeah. So I'm going to wait for a day when my son takes me out to go sightseeing and that's when I'll I'll talk to him, you know will maybe go out to like have a coffee maybe eat a hamburger and then I'll start talking to him about it. I'll stop let the God

3 (46m 16s):
and Lupita kept making with sounded

4 (46m 18s):
like a half joke half Back-up Plan about her son. Daniel

1 (46m 22s):
was Ribeiro. I think sometimes it would be so great if they could actually Deport him back to me with me. That's really what color are you looking religion, but I guess

4 (46m 32s):
I asked Lupita what her kids would think if they knew she was saying that say no, huh?

1 (46m 36s):
Well, I think they'll get mad because they what are you talking about Mom? But yes, this is something that I've thought about that. It might be better if they're deported because then they'll be deported to be back with me. What does it better than what I was gonna keep going to be cool.

4 (46m 48s):
She says in the past she's gotten so frustrated about her kids not being home that she thought about going to the US Embassy to report

3 (46m 55s):
them.

4 (46m 59s):
I don't think she will be capable to do that. This is Lupita son Daniel. I caught up with him in Chicago,

3 (47m 5s):
but maybe you never know. I don't even get mad if she does it so I'll be like okay wouldn't get that if she is my mother so she gave me life. So I started laughing to be honest because

4 (47m 23s):
make me feel like

3 (47m 24s):
she loves me very

1 (47m 25s):
much.

4 (47m 30s):
Just as Lupita landed in Chicago with the rest of the parents Daniel and Mary Lou and more than a hundred other families were waiting in the basement of a packed Church. The chaperones had specifically told them not to come to the airport. It wasn't a good idea to have so many undocumented people in a place with so much law enforcement the organizers try to keep details about the reunions secret. There's this sinking worried that ice could find out some family's worried that the whole thing could be a ploy to deport them. In the church basement about 300 people all families squish together long folding tables piled with flowers homemade posters and heart-shaped balloons. There are grown men walking around with teddy bears for their moms.

4 (48m 13s):
Then an MC standing near the door started giving updates about the parents landing at the airport getting on buses headed to the church the mood got

2 (48m 20s):
rowdier.

4 (48m 28s):
Lupita son Daniel and her daughter Mary Lou are sitting at a table near the center of the room. They craned their necks to watch for the bus. Mary Lou has been waiting in the church basement for hours. She left three children in Mexico and she came to Chicago and she brought to younger kids with her. It gnaws at her not seeing her kids back in Mexico and she worries about her mom dying alone.

1 (48m 51s):
I feel I feel sad. Said she's by herself.

2 (48m 55s):
I worry about her. Sometimes I'm thinking about like what about something happened to her? What I will do. I don't wanna let her die without me. Nice

4 (49m 12s):
suddenly this famous Mariachi song came on and Mary Lou started singing along. Loudly.

2 (49m 26s):
I guess the

4 (49m 31s):
lyrics for pretty on the nose, beautiful and Love in Mexico. If I die far from you let them say that I'm asleep and have them bring me back here

2 (49m 43s):
Mickey goal in the you can see muerto.

4 (49m 58s):
The MC at the church gives an update the buses with everyone's parents are just minutes away. Mari lose suddenly gets quiet tears are running down her face. She lets out a sigh. Daniel wipes his eyes to outside the bus pulls up in front of the church. As they drove to the church the parents were looking out the windows commenting on how drab and ugly Chicago is well, it isn't beautiful. One of them said to me, but once we parked everyone got very excited. Lupita says, I'm going to Spring to hug them to greet

1 (50m 33s):
them. I'm not going

4 (50m 37s):
she's the last parent off the bus she enters the church building and Wades into this intense scene with little PODS of families all over the place hugging and

2 (50m 46s):
crying. I don't want to cry

4 (50m 52s):
but she doesn't see her kids. It's chaotic. Finally Mary Lou and Daniel walk up. Each of them holding a flower. Daniel is shaking a little they surround Lupita and start hugging. They're saying I'm so happy to see you and it's my mom. My mom. Lupita says it's so amazing to see you my daughter. I love

2 (51m 21s):
you get them better. Then I must be telling the ghetto more

4 (51m 25s):
Mario who gives her a big kiss. Then Daniel says it's been 20 years since we saw each other they linger and take a picture together Lupita meets a great-grandchild Mary Lou's grandson who she's never met before she tells him that he's so handsome.

2 (51m 42s):
Seto I love you,

4 (51m 45s):
then her kids grab her two bags full of more than a hundred hence on sweaters table Linens and scarves that Lupita has been working on for a year. They joked that they're filled with

2 (51m 55s):
rocks.

4 (51m 56s):
She had dreamed of eating at an American restaurant with her family and suddenly there she was in Chicago and her kids were telling her that they were going to take her out to

2 (52m 4s):
dinner.

4 (52m 13s):
Lupita spent three weeks with Daniel and Mary Lou and Chicago and they didn't want me hanging around with the recorder which I understood the three days into the trip before Lupita launched into her campaign to convince her kids to move home Daniel sat down with me for an interview and he told me yeah, he knew it was coming, but I ran down the details with him. Anyway your mom when we were talking about it. She was saying like she has this whole plan for you. Like she's talked to the high school principal. Maybe he's willing to hire. Teach English.

3 (52m 43s):
She's like I don't know that good that my mom's dream no mine.

4 (52m 48s):
So Daniel is single with no kids something his mom constantly reminds him. She's trying to arrange things so that she like has a perfect place for you. Like she wants to find you a woman she for you to marry. She said you can't live in the same house

3 (53m 4s):
candidates for that. I'm like this is not gonna work

4 (53m 8s):
at all because

3 (53m 11s):
I don't know how to say this, but fortunately or unfortunately, I have absurd so much stuff from this culture and when I talk to people from Mexico They like what he's talking about

4 (53m 25s):
Marie Lu had a different take she wants to move back to Mexico but not right now not for ten more years. She says she has to earn more money first. I think nothing Mary Lou and Daniel told us would have been a surprise to Lupita Lupita knew it would be a hard sell, but she convinced herself that she could pull it off. Across Mexico kids from this generation are coming back voluntarily Mexico has become a wealthier country in the years since they left some of those kids are moving back and starting businesses others were retiring spending more time with family back home. They did what they came to do.

4 (54m 7s):
I called Lupita after the trip to find out what happened. Did you did you stick to your plan about how you're going to ask and how many times you're going to ask?

1 (54m 15s):
Well? Yeah. Hey Lloyd. Well, I planned it out and I did it but while it didn't work,

4 (54m 23s):
like how many times did you did you

1 (54m 25s):
try I came because I'm Kevin almost every other day. I'd say something to them.

4 (54m 30s):
Come on. Let's enter content visit every other day every every third day. They're served via.

1 (54m 37s):
Yes every other day so that I wouldn't bother them. If not, I was going to annoy them.

4 (54m 43s):
She ran the lines that she rehearsed but our kids had their own response ready. They reminded her that her visa was good for 10 years that it would be easier for her to visit them. Did you g feel disappointed? Were you surprised by what they said?

1 (54m 57s):
It was better than just desperate and sad sad at the same time because I said to myself my God, I think Mike. Kids are going to stay there. So when I when it's my time to go what's going to happen, they said our lives are here. Let's not talk about that right now because we're happy and that will make us

3 (55m 20s):
sad she says that's when she understood that their answer was

4 (55m 23s):
definite unchangeable. She stopped bothering me about it. She wanted the reunions to remain Pleasant. But the truth is there were moments when she became really sad like when her daughter was at work and she was alone in the house. She kept that feeling to herself. Back in the 90s millions of Mexican parents watch their kids leave for the u.s. Often with just a backpack in an address. The parents never imagined that the next trips would be Theirs to make elderly moms and dads with tenure visas convinced by their kids that was their turn to cross the border like Lupita. She'll be flying back to see her kids now and then uh-huh.

4 (56m 7s):
They beat me. She said I'm not going to say anything more about it.

3 (56m 19s):
Kevin see if he's the Mexico bureau chief for the Washington

2 (56m 22s):
Post his mama said You're gonna grow up someday move away as I stood up. He said no way Mama. I'll never want to leave or stay close to home.

2 (57m 4s):
He was too close to home. His he was too close to home.

3 (57m 17s):
Well program has produced a by Sean Cole the people put together today's show include being mad at wound me out of Baker Emanuel Barry Susan Burton Zoe chased in a chip is andreea Lopez cruzada with the Dangerfield Damien grave Michelle Harris Southland Jessica Lawson hot Mickey mixed or Nelson Catherine. Raimondo, Gabrielle Munoz been failing Nadia Raymond was a ship Chloe Sullivan Christopher Sir Topham Hatt. Tyranny and Nancy Updike. I managing editors, Diane whoo our executive editors. Would cast him down special. Thanks today to dr. Pail right Rhonda, Nicole Jaya. Saxena Phillip. Good and Bernadette mayor our website This American Life dot-org. We can stream our Archive of nearly seven hundred episodes. Also this videos and tons of other stuff there or get our app, which is all that stuff and also that you download as many episodes as you want.

3 (58m 2s):
Again. This American life.org is American life is delivered to public radio stations by PRX the public radio exchange support to this American. Second Life comes to Magog Anita's Brewing Company feeling stories and songs with Lagunitas IPA. And of course committed to keeping the pub in public radio. Find out more won't you? I'd like to need us.com. Thanks as always to our programs co-founder. Mr. Tory amount of Tia. You know, he told me that he bought me a Hanukkah gift this year on his trip to Mexico. I asked him what it is. He was very vague the center. I'm Ira Glass back next week

4 (58m 37s):
with more stories at This American

2 (58m 38s):
Life.

3 (58m 56s):
Next week on the podcast of This American Life. This is a little Community radio station in a small town in

1 (59m 2s):
Syria

3 (59m 5s):
in the current worth. This town is run by extremist islamists who decided that it was offencive for women's voices to be on the air. So it's little more little more

4 (59m 15s):
this guy's awesome

3 (59m 17s):
and incredible and unusual look inside Syria during this war as seen through this little radio station this next week on the podcast and welcome public radio station. Yeah.