1 (1s):
Support for This American Life comes from the

2 (3s):
new freeform comedy. Everything's going to be okay from executive producers of please like me and catastrophe Nicholas a 20-something man child becomes legal guardian to his two half sisters after their father dies. Everything's going to be okay January 16th on freeform.

1 (22s):
Support for This American Life comes from the

2 (24s):
new freeform comedy. Everything's going to be okay from executive producers of please like me and catastrophe Nicholas a 20-something man child becomes legal guardian to his two half sisters after their father dies. Everything's going to be okay January 16th on freeform. Okay. So one of my co-workers David cast about started telling me about this thing and really I thought he was completely just there was no way it could be true. It just seemed completely ridiculous. And then I gotta say the more he explained the more it slowly started to seem like okay, maybe he's right important fact to know about David before we go any further.

2 (1m 5s):
He has a PhD in physics worked at fermilab on subatomic particles was on the team that discovered the top quark and then this whole thing between And me began when he told me to download an app on my iPhone, it's called Universe splitter. Okay, so now I've opened it up. And there's like a gray steel fake steel background and it says in white type on top of it Universe splitter Quantum induced Universe bifurcation. What do I do now? All right. So tell me something you are having trouble making up your mind about what to do.

2 (1m 49s):
You and I are recording this on December 31st. Yeah, and I've had a week off I grew a beard I noticed and I'm trying to decide if I should shave it off. And so that's something I'm trying to decide. I have an opinion on that. But what's your opinion? Actually, I think it looks pretty good right now. Okay. So what is this universe splitter do? It lets you do both. Like it creates a duplicate of this universe so that in one you get to grow the beard and in the other you shave it off. Wait, that's what we're going to do. Yeah for pretender for real. No no for real. Maybe. This is a thing.

2 (2m 29s):
It's called the many-worlds interpretation of quantum mechanics. There are a lot of really smart physicists who think this is probably what's happening. Okay. So how does this work? Like, what do I do next? All right. So so there are two boxes there. Yeah in one box it says One Universe, I will now. Okay. So put shave off my beard tonight on shave off the beard tonight. Okay, and then the other boxes labeled in the other universe and the other one, I will now put keep beard. Keep beard.

2 (3m 9s):
Okay, then what's below it and then below it there's like a button with like an atom drawn on it, but I can add them like you would draw it in like a 1950's cartoon like yeah, that's like the aesthetic of the whole thing. It's like an old piece of scientific equipment. So what does it do when you push the button? So if you push the button it sends a signal to a fancy piece of scientific equipment at the University of Geneva in Switzerland the equipment these days can be tiny like a little box you can hold in your hand. And it does the following it takes a single particle of light a photon. It sends it at a kind of mirror that can make the photon either go left or right you can make it that way like a random.

2 (3m 53s):
It'll go either left or right. Well according to the laws of quantum mechanics, which covered governed very small things. It actually goes both. It's not that we don't know it actually goes left and right at the same time. Okay, so that's super weird. Right? But that is actually true and demonstrated and like we've known that since the 20s. Okay. So then what happens in this device in Geneva? Yeah. So the device fires a photon which can go left or right and then the device looks to see well where did it go? And we know the particles in both places, right, but when the machine looks it only finds it in one place chose.

2 (4m 34s):
It went either left or right which Makes sense, right because we know from the math at the particle did go to both places. So why did we only see it in one of those places? And what's the answer? All right. So one of the answers is that the photon is in both places left and right but just in different universes. Wait, so you're saying that when you shoot the photon into the mirror, it actually creates an entire duplicate of our universe and one of those universes. The photon is on the left and the other it is on the right. Yes, it both went left. And right those are just in different universes the math of it makes a lot of the math of it is very like streamlined and simple.

2 (5m 19s):
I remember like the day I saw it in class and I was like, oh my God, maybe it's true. Yeah. So those boxes you filled out on the app, even the box where I typed in shave off here tonight and the box where I typed in keep beard. Right? Right, so it'll basically choose one of those boxes if the photon goes left and the other box if the And goes right. Okay. Got it. You have to do what it says. You may have to keep the beard or shave off the beard like a tells me. Yeah. Yeah, because when you press that button you're going to get back one answer but there's going to be a duplicate Universe in which there is a duplicate you sitting in a duplicate studio and duplicate me and you holding a duplicate phone in exactly the same way.

2 (6m 4s):
The only difference is that that phone comes back with the other answer? And then that version of me we'll do whatever it says in the phone. We know that other guy we trust him. He's going to go do the other. Okay. I think I understand all this. Let's go ahead do not press the button push it. I feel weird about it. I feel weird. I know it's crazy. I feel weird. You literally just put your finger right up to the button and pulled it away and fear I guess. Split universe. Okay. It says input valid internet contacted Geneva online device ready Photon emitted Quantum event.

2 (6m 50s):
Your universe is just split your in the universe in which you should keep beard. And right now in the other Universe the other you is being told to shave off beard tonight. So after that, I kept the beer that night and friends in New Year's parties asked me about it. And if the universe did in fact split the other version of me and the other Universe must have had different conversations. Maybe for instance somebody gave him a great idea for a show today that in that Universe instead of airing this show in that University of hearing a totally different theme. And David just to be sure I'm understanding this through saying this isn't a metaphor you're saying there are scientists who really believe that a second Universe gets created.

2 (7m 37s):
Yeah, for sure. I mean, I think it's not most physicists and there are some who think it's ridiculous for sure, but there are some who take it very seriously. Okay. Where is this alternate universe that we're creating? Yeah. I don't really even know how to think about this. But if this is true universe is duplicating itself all the time. It's like a fundamental thing about existence. What a day on our In the universe that may be duplicating itself all the time. We have people who become entranced by the idea of a parallel universe out there things are different and one of those stories things are better in the alternate World in one crucial way in another story two parallel worlds overlap in another woman tries to visit chechu.

2 (8m 20s):
Go to the parallel universe from WBZ Chicago. It's This American Life. I'm Ira Glass stay with us. I plan on dreams from my father. So it's emailing with a fiction writer that we have on a show sometimes at car carrot about today's theme and he told me that his father used to spend a lot of time imagining worlds. Like we're talking about in today's program parallel world stars that are almost the same as our world but not quite and he said his father did this starting during World War Two. So either was 14 living in Poland. He was Jewish when the Germans invaded and started sending Jews to the concentration camps.

2 (9m 3s):
Do you know during the the Second World War? A human experience E-Z hidden it in a hole in the ground that they dug for six hundred twenty days. So we had a lot of spare time and when he was there he would imagine all kinds of things you would imagine a world in which the Nazis didn't exist or in which he wasn't the Jew or in which people just in general. I didn't kill each other, you know, Andy and this kind of thing was something that he associated with being a child then he kind of felt it. Interested him as a child since I'm I will probably like it too back during the words father couldn't leave that Hall from us two years and at the headquarters was right there near the hole on the same property a Christian farmer in his 80s would bring them food and how got buckets of urine.

2 (9m 53s):
They couldn't even talk a lot of the time they are imagines. It was like 2 years of meditation my father the way that he would talk about his time in the hole. He would say that he would sleep and then he would wake. Ben's anyone asked his father if the war was over and his father would say no so we would go and sleep some more. That's the way he would tell it to me. I think it's that kind of the software version and was it like when you say a whole could they even stand up? No the as you couldn't stand in it and he couldn't even lie down in it. They had to sit in it. And when the Russian is at liberated the the town and these were brought out they had to be carried out because you know their muscles were so cramped.

2 (10m 36s):
Apt the day. It's by did the time of the end of the words. I couldn't move them. Oh my God. So basically they're in this hole and they're sitting sitting there. Yes. And you know and it's like it's very very cold. You know, it's Way Beyond freezing and don't have food and and you hear voices in German and you know that you know that you can easily be killed. And you close your eyes and you think of another universe that cars are not fiction that imagines parallel worlds of various kinds and when I asked you if you wanted to do something for today's show, he wrote this story a true story the start when he was a kid.

2 (11m 27s):
When I was 6 years old, my dad worked at the pool snack bar. Not far from one of the levels beaches every day at 5:30 in the morning. He'd leave home for the pool swim two kilometers shower in the locker room and get to work. He won't get home till 9:00 at night 14 hours a day 7 days a week unloading boxes of soft drinks pressing toasted sandwiches. Bring coughing gleaming glasses at the pool snack bar up by the beach. Years later dad always said those were the best days of his life.

2 (12m 7s):
Fondly remembering how the salty air blowing in from the sea would mix in his lungs with the smell of the coffee and imported cigarettes. He used to sell at the bar. Coffee cigarettes and the Sea were always my father's free favorite things. For me those days were not quite as happy when that came back from work. I was already in bed and other than Saturdays when I go off to visit him at the pool with my mom. I never saw him at all. Not that I was bitter about this six-year-old children can't really imagine a different word for themselves one was their father had more time for them.

2 (12m 47s):
They accept reality as it is. And yet I miss him dearly. Seeing this my mother suggested I go with him every morning to the pool have a swim together and take a cab to school from there. I don't remember anything of those morning swims, but the car rides was dead a crystal clear. It's still dark as we see it in our silver visual 500 for the windows rolled down that smoking can't 100 and describing parallel universes that exist at this very moment. In other dimensions universes were everything is precisely identical to ours same road same traffic light same cigarette in the corner of Dad's mouth all except for one tiny difference and this difference that would change every moment.

1 (13m 39s):
Ink

2 (13m 40s):
changing the one detail in the parallel universe the different from ours here. We are in the parallel universe waiting at the exact same intersection for the light to change only in this universe instead of a silver position. We are riding a dragon. And here's another one. We're under my faded sweatpants hide gills, which allow me to breathe on the water like a fish when I was nine. My father got a new job. He no longer had to get up so early in the morning and in the evenings, we'd all have dinner together and watch the Nightly News.

2 (14m 26s):
I was 22 by the time I moved out of my parents house, but they still made sure to visit them at least twice a week and on Saturdays I swim with Dad at the pool where he once worked. When I was 43, my father was diagnosed with cancer. It was tongue cancer the result of 50 years of smoking by the time the doctor's coat on it was at an advanced stage and though we never spoke a word about it. It was obvious to us both that soon. He was going to die. On Mondays I take him in for his physical therapy. And as we sat in the waiting room to see the physical therapist with the British accent, my father sometimes still talked about parallel universes where everything was exactly the same as ours save for one difference say the dogs could speak or that people could read minds or that the sky was purple and when the milk white clouds floated across did they look tasty and have to eat At the end of every session the physical therapist would show me how to hold.

2 (15m 36s):
My father's arm when we walk together and what I should do in case he lost his balance. On our way home as we approach the corner of King Solomon and the laws of all that would always stop. Do you smell that? He'd say and point to the new Cafe the corner just by the smell of it. I can tell you that's the best coffee in town at this stage of his illness. The tongue cancer was so Advanced. My father could no longer eat or drink. He said he got all his food and liquids through clear plastic tube. Straight to his

1 (16m 13s):
stomach

2 (16m 20s):
on one of these man days after physical therapy. We're walking by The Corner Cafe on King Solomon and the laws of all my father instead of just posing to praise the places usual suggested. We actually go in for a cup of coffee Dad. I said after a moment's hesitation. You can't drink anything. The tumor is blocking. locking your esophagus I know he said and patted me on the back, but you can we set it to corner table on the sidewalk. I ordered a latte and a glass of water from the Pretty waitress. And when she asked my father what he did like he asked for a double espresso.

2 (17m 3s):
I stood at him confused and he smiled and Shrugged the waitress noticed that guilty smile and gave me questioning look. Not knowing what to say. I ordered an oatmeal cookie. Until the coffee arrived we sit in silence. I wanted to ask my father. Why do order the coffee toll and if it had anything to do with the way it was being pretty but I said nothing. Deadpool the cigarette back out of his shirt pocket and the lighter he had stored in his glasses case and set them both down on the table.

2 (17m 44s):
We waited. A few minutes later the waitress returned with our older. She placed it on the table a lot a glass of water and the cookie in front of me and a double espresso in front of dead. Aromatic steam Rose for my coffee. I wanted to drink it but doing that in Dad's face seemed unfair. So I just kept staring at it when out of the corner of my eye. I saw my father quickly snatched the Double Espresso of the table and got be down in one seat. It was impossible. I knew it was impossible after all I was there in the room when the oncologist showed me and my mother the X-ray with the tumor resting above the blocked esophagus like a scoop of vanilla ice cream on a waffle cone.

2 (18m 34s):
My father she said then could never drink again and he we were sitting together on a pleasant summer day at this hipster Cafe Misty staring at my steaming cup of coffee and him by my side smiling after killing off his Double Espresso. And for a moment there. I thought maybe we were in a parallel universe. Maybe he told me enough stories ever since I was a little boy to tear open and holding the aching heart of our universe. True each we were sucked into a parallel one identical to our own in every way say for one exception in this universe. My dad could drink and eat as much as he liked and he was not about to die in just a few months.

2 (19m 25s):
The piping hot coffee slid down my father's windpipe and into his lungs when it got there dad started to choke. He stood up and grabbed his throat with both hands the wet wheezing noises. He made were rific the sound of a man whose lungs are flooded with hot coffee a bespectacled man from the table next to us wrapped up and asked my father if he needed any help. I just said they're paralyzed the parallel universe. I shared with my father moments ago had vanished dropping me back into a Farwest universe. A few more seconds of gargling followed after which dead leaned over and cuffed up evacuating all the fine Italian espresso that it filled his lungs.

2 (20m 15s):
When he was done he set up in his chair as if nothing had happened inches away from the puddle of coffee and phlegm and read himself a cigarette. People of the tables around us kept staring at him. What did I tell you he smiled at me and excelled smoke from his nostrils the best coffee in town like a carrot is author of many books. He writes about his dad and the rest of his family and stories a lot like this one emotional fables that happened be true in his book The Seven good years.

2 (21m 1s):
Back to sorry not sorry. So it's kind of Groom to say this but the moon landing that story of American Triumph. It could have gone another way and some other storyline from the Multiverse Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin they land on the moon they walk around it's great, but then there's a problem and they cannot take off to come home. That's his thought. This was the most dangerous moment of the mission the most likely spot you can fail one of President Richard Nixon's speechwriters William safire actually prepared a statement. Statement to be read in case that was the way the story went at the top of the page and all caps it read in the event of moon disaster for line of the speech Fate has ordained that the man who went to the moon to explore in peace.

2 (21m 45s):
Oh stay on the moon to rest in peace. Pretty good Difficult about has this next story about another presidential speech never delivered that also feels like it's slipped into our world from a parallel universe. You can find this speech framed hanging in the guests. Bathroom of Home in California, here's David. The speech was to be read on the night of August 17th 1998. It's in the house of Bob Shrum because he wrote it Shrum was a long time Democratic political strategist speechwriter and get her out of tight spots. Are you are you personally good at apologizing. Well, I've had to apologize so many times for so many things.

2 (22m 25s):
Sure. What's the most recent thing you apologize for having a fight? Fight with my wife about what we were giving various people as Christmas gifts. This story is about an apology. He wrote for a much bigger audience that August 1998 Shrum was on vacation in Idaho staying with some friends and the phone rang. Why didn't have a cell phone then so somehow or other. Oh, my office called me and said Mark was trying to reach me Mark is Mark pain with the time was conducting polls and Advising the president of the United States with the time was Bill Clinton who at the time It was in a lot of hot water impeachment might very well be an option but tampering with Witnesses obstruction of justice are very very serious charges the moment when one political party said they were very valid High crimes and misdemeanors.

2 (23m 16s):
The other party said that's ridiculous political posturing. Anyway, there have been stories in the press for months at this point. The Clinton might have had an affair with an intern Monica Lewinsky Clinton denied it though under oath in a civil case. And famously on television, but I want to say one thing to the American people. I want you to listen to me. I'm going to say this again. I did not have sexual relations with that woman Miss Lewinsky, but there was the dress with the clintons DNA on it and recorded phone calls between Monica Lewinsky and a co-worker talking about the affair at the time Bob Shrum got the call President Clinton was finally going to have to testify before independent counsel.

2 (24m 0s):
Ken Starr's grand jury, he would have to own up to the affair and then afterwards say something to the nation, but what that was what the phone call was about Shrum called Mark pen back who asked if he would take a shot at writing a speech for the president to be delivered on TV. Just after he gave his grand jury testimony. It would be the president's chance to frame the whole thing. Maybe finally put it away and prevent the Republicans from starting impeachment proceedings. The country would be Bob Shrum said okay he hung up the phone and told his wife in the couple. They were staying with on vacation what the assignment was one of the people there said this better be good.

2 (24m 41s):
Meaning you better do a good job. Yes. Yeah, so I sat at the dining room table and I wrote in longhand on a yellow pad, which is how I've always written. I drafted it. What he wrote was a straight-up direct apology. Do you have it there with you? It's on it's on the well, actually I can go get it. You want to hold on for a second Schramm went to go get it from where it was hanging in what he calls the guest powder room and to be clear. There's other political memorabilia in there. It's a speech he's proud of can you read the speech for me? Yeah, it's not very long. So I will my fellow Americans no one who is not in my position can understand fully the remorse.

2 (25m 28s):
I feel today since I was very young. I have had a profound reverence for this office. I hold I've been honored that you the people have entrusted it to me. I am proud of what we have accomplished together. But in this case, I have fallen short of what you should expect from a president. I have failed my own. Religious faith and values. I have let too many people down. I take full responsibility for my actions for hurting my wife and daughter for hurting Monica Lewinsky and her family for hurting friends and staff and for hurting the country. I love none of this ever should have happened. Then he has Clinton apologizing for misleading people about the affair and this is how it ends.

2 (26m 13s):
Finally. I also want to apologize to all of you my fellow citizens. I hope that you can I find it in your heart to accept my apology I pledge to you that I will make every effort of Mind and Spirit to earn your confidence again to be worthy of this office and to finish the work on which we have made such remarkable progress in the past six years. God bless you and good night. How's it feel reading that? You know, I mean, I remember writing it. I thought it was the right thing for him to say and when I hear it now, I still think it's the right thing for him to say. It's notable that schrom had the president apologizing to Monica Lewinsky and her family at the time Charles Rangel the Democratic congressman from New York called her quote a young Tramp.

2 (27m 3s):
She was the subject of jokes on late night television. Bill Maher said I think Monica Lewinsky is the one who should apologize to America. No one seemed to be thinking about her as a person whose life was now a wreck. Schramm was well. I mean she was an intern kid in the white house and I thought that that made every bit of sense in the world. Shroom sent the speech into the White House and then the day arrived Clinton gave his grand jury testimony, which was not broadcast that evening. The president went on TV to give his speech Shrum sat down with the rest of the country to watch it.

2 (27m 46s):
We're just sitting around in the living room watching it on television. And at that point are you thinking maybe he's going to read my speech sure. I thought he'd I thought he might very well Bill Clinton who I worked with on like State of the Union message has never Exactly reads what you send him? So I didn't anticipate that it would be necessarily word for word what I had sent but I thought it might be pretty close to it. It was almost diametrically the opposite good evening. This afternoon in this room from this chair. I testified before the office of independent counsel and the grand jury. I answered their questions truthfully including questions about my private life questions.

2 (28m 32s):
No American citizen would ever want to answer. I not only remember hearing the first words, but I remember the look on his face. He was really really angry. It's the private Bill Clinton who could get angry and I have seen him angry, but I don't think the country had seen him angry very often as you know in a deposition in January. I was asked questions about my relationship. Listen ship with Monica Lewinsky while my answers were legally accurate. I did not volunteer information. Indeed. I did have a relationship with Miss Lewinsky that was not appropriate. In fact, it was wrong. It constituted a critical lapse in judgment and a personal failure on my part for which I am solely and completely responsible.

2 (29m 19s):
There are moments of apology in there and what feel like honest reflection like when he straight-up admits the reasons he had been so evasive until then I can only tell you I was motivated by many factors. First by desire to protect myself from the embarrassment of my own conduct, but the overall message is not I'm sorry. I screwed up he seems to be saying but the real problem is the fact that I'm having to talk about this at all. It's a private family matter. It's nobody's business, but ours even presidents have private lives. He closes not by asking for forgiveness as from had advised, but by asking people to stop gawking And so tonight I ask you to turn away from the spectacle of the past seven months to repair the fabric of our national discourse and to return our attention to all the challenges and all the promise of the next American Century.

2 (30m 19s):
Thank you for watching and good night. What do you think would have happened if he'd instead that? Night, he'd taken out your speech and read it. I think it would have lessened the chances that he would have been impeached. Really. I don't know that it would have prevented the impeachment, but I think it would have lessened the chances. It's possible his speech gets you to the same ending just with a slightly different plot after all there was a lot of momentum in Congress toward impeachment, but it's nice to contemplate a world where the leader of your country can stand up and acknowledge having made a mistake can acknowledge reality an apology really is about the truth laying it out so we can all live in the same world together.

2 (31m 7s):
It's impossible to imagine that happening now Clinton seemed closer to it at that moment, but he still couldn't do it. I wonder if all the possible universes in how many of them does Clinton say. I'm sorry, you know not I'm sorry for what happened or I'm sorry, if people feel you know, but really like I'm sorry. There may be a universe in which he did that. I'm just not aware of it because I don't live in it. Yeah, is that the one we live in? You want to know what I think I think it's possible. There is no Universe in which President Clinton reads Bob Shrum speech listening to the speech Clinton did give I kind of think he gives it in every possible Universe.

2 (31m 49s):
It was exactly how he felt and the speech that you wrote. Well great was not at all how he was feeling at that moment. All right, obviously the speech that I did that I drafted did not reflect how he felt coming out of the grand jury in that sense. Can you fault him? I just think it you want to do what fits the moment and you want to be true to yourself. The problem was that I think he was true to the angry guy who had just come out of the room, you know, he was maybe not true to the person. He was the next day. There are the use in all the parallel worlds, but also the you on Thursday and the one on Friday the one who's had some time to think and some sleep and a sandwich for sure.

2 (32m 39s):
Those are different people may be casting bow and some other university state of physicists were all of his life in this one. He is the executive editor of our Bam Bill Clinton, by the way, he later wrote about this address to the nation that night and his biography. It is not mentioned Trump's draft of the speech but it does say the most of his advisors had counselled him to Simply admit that he had made an awful mistake not to go out swinging. He did anyway, of course weeks after that speech. He backtracked front of a smaller audience at a prayer breakfast with religious leaders. He took a different tone there.

2 (33m 19s):
He said I agree with those who have said that in my first statement after I testified I was not contrary. eight enough was much closer to what Shrum had written included an apology to Monica Lewinsky and her family coming up worried that you living in a parallel universe where some very basic facts about your own life had been altered that's in a minute from Chicago public radio when our program continues Support for This American Life comes from the mind-body app, wherever you are, the mind-body app connects you to the best local Wellness experiences where you can find great last-minute deals on Fitness classes and book right in the app ever.

2 (34m 0s):
Wanted to try Hot Yoga boxing or a high-octane spin class mind body is where millions of people find thousands of classes to love and the only commitment is to yourself download the app at mind-body dot IO IO / pod Support for This American Life comes from free form with the new comedy. Everything's going to be okay 20-something Nicholas has never been particularly helpful in raising his two teenage sisters, but when their father becomes terminally ill Nicholas is the only one left to teach his younger sisters about life love and all the other things. He still hasn't learned himself what could go wrong?

2 (34m 40s):
Everything's going to be okay premieres on Thursday, January 16th at 8:30 7:30 central on freeform. erm This American Life Myra glass today's program Gardens of branching paths stories of parallel worlds and people who get fixated on the way things could be in those other worlds in the first half of today's show. We had people imagining other better World in this half. We have people pondering the alternate worlds that are right here around us all the time in this world. We've arrived at three of our show at three scar crossed brothers. So if you think about it, It being an identical twin is kind of a parallel world situation, you know, you have this other version of yourself stuck in the same world as you stuck in the same houses.

2 (35m 26s):
You you see somebody who's just like you running around doing things that you might not do Dana chip is has this next story about a mother her twins and a 48 year old mystery

1 (35m 39s):
and that's Clara had a lot going on in the winter of 72 in January. She delivered twin boys Jason first followed by Randy five. Peter Lang five pounds two ounces. Randy had to spend the first days of life in an incubator. They lived in Suburban St. Louis an ex-husband Dick had a job at a paper company called tension envelope. He worked long hours and traveled a lot. Annette was often at home alone caring for two infants feeding them changing diapers and making sure she didn't lose track of which one was which because they looked exactly alike. Were you always scared that you might mix them up like from the day they they were born. Was that a real fear.

1 (36m 20s):
I tried to be really

2 (36m 21s):
careful about knowing who either had what outfit they were on. I knew I was really careful about it. So usually they had outfits we had outfits and different colors blue blue. Jay and red Randy red and then I didn't think about it too much once on you it was okay. That's all we did it. That's a good system. I mean, I think I did feed them twice and one of them didn't feed the other one had happened. He did that he did that. One of them was eating the other was crying a lot and I go why is he crying? So what

1 (36m 55s):
she even had a backup a creative redundancy she built into the safety plan for their identities and that was diaper pins. She has blue diaper pins for Jason and yellow ones for Randy everything went smoothly for a while and then at six weeks they had their first check up a net dress them in the same outfit a fancy number their aunt Los Angeles had sent them but underneath the clothes the diaper pin system was up and running at the doctor's office a nurse took the babies out of the room and that can really remember why maybe she needed to weigh them and a few minutes later the nurse came back in with the

2 (37m 28s):
boys and she goes up. We have such a great surprise for you. Now, we have

1 (37m 33s):
Pampers who are just using with the first time. So instead of using your diapers, we used your Pampers

2 (37m 39s):
and then they gave me a little all four of their tins

1 (37m 44s):
the nurses change the babies out of their cloth diapers and put them into Double ones for oiling the system entirely. She handed a net a little bag with a diaper pins in it. The boys were completely indistinguishable.

2 (37m 56s):
I was very upset so they go. Oh, you're going to be fine. You're fine. Of course, they go you're fine and we got in the car and I was so upset the whole way home

1 (38m 5s):
when she got home Annette put the babies on the couch and stared at them at six weeks old. They didn't have distinct personalities yet. They weigh the same amount. They had the same bald heads. No birthmarks,

2 (38m 16s):
and I'm not kidding you. You they looked exactly like and so I was thinking I was a really terrible mother then how can I really look at this and not see my own children and not know which ones they are.

1 (38m 28s):
You know, she called me in a panic and she just said I'm I don't know what I'm going to do. I don't know which ones which I don't know what to do. This. Isn't that's best friend. Linda Wallace Aunt Linda is Jason and rondi know her she lived in the same subdivision. Did you go over there to try to help her do you like it? Because she couldn't tell them apart. How would I be able to tell them apart? Right? I mean dirt I didn't I couldn't tell them apart. You know, they she had the pins were you nervous to tell to tell decree nervous to tell ya you were yes, I was really nervous.

2 (39m 13s):
So when he came home when he came home and he did they saw them and they were in there. Their crib and so finally I had to tell my go I have to tell you what happened and I told him and he

1 (39m 23s):
goes really goes. Well, we'll figure it out. Let's see and then we were both looking at both of them

2 (39m 28s):
right next to each other and then of course, they had the papers on and nothing and he's going I don't know. What do you think it is? I climbed

1 (39m 45s):
and that was faced with a decision. She had to choose which baby was Jason and which one was Randy. She had nothing to go on but a maternal feeling so she chose take agreed with

2 (39m 56s):
her. I really always felt like I had the right person in my heart. I just said it is and I'm not going to think about it anymore. This is my life. We know who they are. And that's it is what they are and we're not going to talk about it

1 (40m 9s):
anymore Aunt Linda not so convinced. Do you think she got it, right? Do you think an egg got it? You know, I mean, I don't think she knows she says she did but yeah, how did she know? I mean, there's no way that they were so they look so much alike. And so I'm not sure Jason and Randy are 48 years old. Now, they're comedians. They work together. They've done cameos on different TV shows like Curb Your Enthusiasm and Better Call Saul and they still look. Exactly the same Randi. Can you describe what Jason looks like?

2 (40m 51s):
He's very good-looking Jason. He is very Semitic looking he's got glasses. He's about 5 foot eight and a half. That's generous somewhat athletic-looking less

1 (41m 9s):
generous. They found out about their potentially swapped identities when they were about 12 years old by accident. They're spending a summer weekend at the world-famous Lake of the Ozarks in Central Missouri with their mom and Aunt Linda and her two sons the boys were playing while a net-net Linda talked among themselves. The story of the calamitous doctor's visit came up and unbeknownst to them Jason and Randy were near shot and they overheard the whole

2 (41m 33s):
thing and we were just we hated the

1 (41m 37s):
story. This is Jason. He sounds remarkably like Randy

2 (41m 41s):
we were livid that this could have happened and also that she was sharing it in sort of an Hand of joking way and Linda Wallace who is a funny woman was making it funnier and they were laughing about and were like we were just very embarrassed by it and upset by it like oh my God, this is an insane thing to here because we may not be who we are.

1 (42m 1s):
What pissed you off about it. What was so upsetting about

2 (42m 4s):
it. I think that it just was we were just sensitive I think to being confused. And again, it was this narrative that kind of went through our lives as we wanted to be. Eels and we wanted to be seen as individuals and then here's this thing that happened where we could be. So easily

1 (42m 22s):
confused for identical twins to people who are constantly being mistaken for one another. I try really hard to make it clear that their Unique Individuals. This was a big deal. Randy was the most upset

2 (42m 35s):
because why can't you go to the to the policeman? I think Randy really wanted me to go there you were talking all the way to the car

1 (42m 43s):
not that an actual crime had been committed. Just a crime against their dignity, but for some reason Randy figured the police were the ones who could sort it out, but it did not go to the police and the name confusion did not get sorted out. It remained a mystery and Jason and Randy's lives a couple times. There was brought up throughout their years. If somebody said something about it, they would go I don't want to hear about it. Don't bring it up again. No, I had no idea. It was that that painful for them. I mean it wasn't it was a joke between an at night, but I'm not sure

2 (43m 21s):
it was a joke between all of us because

1 (43m 25s):
they were very sensitive about

2 (43m 27s):
it. Just the simple fact of the matter that for countless times in our lives. Someone has said to me Jason and I'm like, nope. I'm Randy, right, you know like that that's happened. So many times in my life. If that's not true. There is going to go back to every single one of those people and apologize but there's there's a notion that like you've been living a little bit of a lie. It's a tiny light, but it's not your lies not you're lying. It's not your fault. It's still that is that's unsettling in a weird way to me. That's just weird that for all this time. I had it wrong

1 (44m 6s):
if they were switched and they have to reimagine something that so foundational. Nobody ever thinks about it their birth who's older who is in the incubator like Randy says it's weird. It doesn't really make a difference but also somehow it does. And not knowing what the truth is. That's even more unnerving. It turns out there was one way to figure it out sometime around the age of 40. Randy can't remember exactly when the topic of their potentially swapped identities came up and they were like, why don't we figure this out yet?

1 (44m 46s):
They're grown-ass adults. They should know who they actually were and also they were working as comedians at that point and they thought it might be good material which will see Randy thought maybe the hospital where they were born would have a copy of their baby finger, baby. Prints they could get those and compare them to their adult fingerprints. He wasn't wrong about the science part of that identical twins have nearly the same DNA so their fingerprint patterns are very similar closer than anyone elses as you probably know fingerprints are made up of lines and some of those lines have tiny variations in them. Like Forks are loops and those markings are different between identical twins. For those of you still listening.

1 (45m 26s):
The reason for that is that the markings developed based on the conditions in the womb like pressure which is different depending on where the baby is in the womb. So Randy called the hospital where they were born to see if they still had a copy of their fingerprints the hospital told them that they throw birth records out after 30 years they were old and out of luck

2 (45m 46s):
until I was back home last summer with my family, this is Randy and I was digging through just looking at stuff in st. Louis in st. Louis I was back in our childhood home that we lived in since we were four years old and I found from the hospital are footprints. I couldn't believe they were in A book is a tide of the next year back right my bed. There was like a nightstand thing that was like a chest that you could open up and it was just in the bottom of that. I couldn't believe it and I'd never seen it there before and I thought okay. This is we could find out it became more real real and the possibility was

1 (46m 24s):
rekindled if they could find someone to compare their adult Footprints to their baby Footprints. Maybe they could put this mystery to bed once and for all as luck would have it. There was just such a person in Bueno. Park California about 25 miles from Los Angeles where Jason and Randy not live a forensic identification specialist by the name of Kurt Coon, but Kurt said there was no way he could use a baby footprint from a hospital. Those aren't made for identification purposes. They're made because baby feet are freaking cute. They're mementos, and they usually don't have much detail in June Jason sent Kurt the footprints. Anyway, just to check and when Kurt saw them he confirmed that they were mostly just Double smudges of ink but miraculously there was a half inch spot on the ball of the left Jason foot that had nice clear lines.

1 (47m 14s):
He shouldn't have any problem making the identification. He just needed Jason and Randy's adult feet. Faced with the imminent revelation of their true identities Jason. I'm Randy were forced to Think Through what they would actually do if they'd been switched his babies, which let's be honest is not a long list of considerations. Do you think you'd swap

2 (47m 40s):
names old we legally change our names because you others

1 (47m 44s):
navies are if you are swapped then you're kind of like committing fraud all the time right now,

2 (47m 49s):
I guess. Yeah intentionally unintentional fry. Yeah, you're well, I would be using his social security number, right? You know, how does that effect? Anything we do

1 (47m 59s):
I wonder if it does I mean maybe it only matters if like one of you commits murder Barefoot and then runs through wet cement or something right? Maybe practically it doesn't actually matter. How

2 (48m 8s):
is out. You can't do that can't do that now. Thanks a lot.

1 (48m 12s):
Maybe it doesn't matter. I'm probably right about that except there's one person who Jason was legitimately worried about their mom Annette who they're very close with their father died in 2009, and that's had two strokes in recent years their protective of her. Her what if she got it wrong all those years ago.

2 (48m 32s):
I would feel bad for her mom.

1 (48m 34s):
Yes a more about that. I would

2 (48m 36s):
feel. Like maybe she would be embarrassed or maybe she would feel like she should have spoken up and maybe found out a way in that moment to get our Footprints and just dispel it and figure it out

1 (48m 52s):
and that however was not

2 (48m 53s):
concerned. I just have a feeling that's all my feeling my definite feeling that I know who's who I know we live you are. I'm the mother. I know what if it is, it's different. You want me to change my name what? I became Jason and Jason became me. Then you have to have different girlfriends or wives.

1 (49m 25s):
A few days before Thanksgiving I flew to LA and met Randy Jason and a net at Randy's house where a net was spending the holiday. We left her at home with her grandchildren and headed down the five towards Buena Park and hopefully resolution. Randy said he was feeling remarkably Zen. But Jason,

2 (49m 43s):
I feel more nervous today than than ever before about this like I think We got into this I was like, oh this is, you know going to be so interesting and fascinating, but I really want my mom to be right like I want to be me. I don't know. I just woke up this morning saying God. I hope my mom was right.

1 (50m 5s):
We turned off the highway drove through the gates of Kurt subdivision and pulled up to a house with a Winnebago out front the garage door was halfway down and behind it. We could see a pair of white legs that ended in a sock tan and flip-flops Kurt the garage door lifted to reveal Kurt a tall man with a full mustache and a voice like a cartoon bear and you're not coming in through the garage get on the front porch. Let me get rid of the trash. I'm taking

2 (50m 29s):
right done and done.

1 (50m 31s):
ER we stepped into Kurt's living room met his wife and Are we made an impressive amount of small talk about Thanksgiving winnebagos

2 (50m 39s):
hunting? Well, have you ever bitten into bird shot while eating

1 (50m 44s):
ravenously so crew spent twenty five and a half years working as a forensic identification specialist for the Beverly Hills in Los Angeles Police Department's he shows his Jason and Randy's baby Footprints. He'd had them locked in his safe for five months take those. They're so cute. It's time to take their adult Footprints. Should I get rid of Of a left shoe and sock Randy goes first he puts his naked foot up on Kurtz knee Kurt takes a special ink pad and presses it against his foot. Then he repeats the process with Jason and that's it. We send them out the door to walk around the neighborhood. Well Kurt figures out who is actually Jason and who is actually Randy we go upstairs to his office where he scans the footprints and then pull them up on his computer screen.

1 (51m 29s):
He enlarges the baby one on screen because his teeny and stares at the lines comparing it to the Adult footprint after just 20 minutes. He's done a text Jason and tell him to come back to the house. Welcome back. Thank you Curtis some back down on the couch and proceeds with a line of questioning. I had not anticipated.

2 (51m 50s):
Okay. Well, my first question is How many other babies were in the doctor's office said they have no idea

1 (51m 58s):
Kurt who's one of the nicest guys you'll ever meet by the way is growing

2 (52m 2s):
with them. Okay, let's hear it don't keep us in suspense.

1 (52m 5s):
So he told them

2 (52m 7s):
wow. Whoa. Oh my God. Oh my God.

1 (52m 14s):
Thank you. We'll be in touch soon. Ok. Now I'm not going to tell you the results yet on the drive back to Randy's house their family calls first. Randy's wife. Amy who asks him not. How are you but who are

2 (52m 37s):
you? Hey,

1 (52m 40s):
then Randy's daughter, Georgia calls with her sister and Jason's kids in the background.

2 (52m 46s):
I'm gonna reveal it when I get

1 (52m 48s):
home. Can we go to the mall, please?

2 (53m 4s):
We're home. Come on down. Come on in.

1 (53m 11s):
We walked back into the kitchen. We left a few hours before and that is there with her four grandchildren Jason and Randy's aunt and uncle are there to an English bulldog named Roman. We gather around the kitchen island. Jason's five-year-old daughter. Noah clings to him. Everyone's excited a little nervous. Okay. So

2 (53m 28s):
first of all, how is everyone feeling We got the results and we found out. That I am me and Uncle Jason. That's okay.

1 (53m 45s):
You actually saw it Fortune. This is

2 (53m 48s):
great. I have to think about it. But that's what I thought in my heart. I felt like you were make you feel like what does it make you feel like that? You got it in my heart. It felt like that's who you were. I just want your mother. And now I'm excited. I'm happy. I'm excited - I love the you're so happy. So we went down and he did our footprint. I know look she's really so happy. That look at the smile on mom's face

1 (54m 16s):
day. Later. Randy got Aunt Linda on the phone and told her the good news

2 (54m 20s):
Yahoo! Yahoo! So that means that Mom and Dad were right. That's right. Thank you, Aunt Linda. Love you.

1 (54m 35s):
So all is well in the sklar family. Jason is still older than Randy by five minutes. Randy is still the one who spent time in an incubator. They haven't been committing unintentional fraud. They don't have to change their social security numbers the world. Annette said they were living in was indeed the world they were in all along.

2 (54m 59s):
And Travis is one of the producers of our show. Look for if I lived here, I'd be home now. So our last story today is about somebody who tries to visit a parallel world when that shyam has lived in herself Diane Wu explains

1 (55m 17s):
the universe Emily ended up in was like a postcard for old-timey America 10 acres in Vermont was five big brothers and sisters eating candy out of glass jars at the family General Store. Yeah, we just lived in this big house and my parents were really strict. My parents are so strict the, Iowa. They always reminded me of the Von Trapp family, even though that's like really exchange a lot of rules. It was it was a lot of rules. I was very much do as I say, she almost lived a totally different life. Emily was adopted from South Korea when she was a baby. She's 40 now and as a kid, she rarely thought about the world she came from what her life would have been like there. It was the 80s that kind of thing wasn't especially encouraged her family raised her not to ask many questions about her past, but there was one thing she really wanted to know about it.

1 (56m 6s):
I mean mostly growing up. I just really wondered what my birth mother look like. Mmm. That was usually the question that always came to my mind her adoptive parents don't look like her they were White House was most everybody else in town. So it was hard for her to picture her birth mother's face. But there was no one to ask a couple decades later. Emily became a mother herself and suddenly felt connected to and curious about her birth mother again. I started researching how to contact her and two long years later finally got in touch. Then she decided to go on a trip to South Korea to meet her birth mother a trip that would allow her to Tunnel between the universe that was into the universe that might have been she recorded parts of it for a podcast called motherhood sessions.

1 (56m 54s):
All of Emily's emotions about the trip hit her on the way to the airport in New York when suddenly she found herself sobbing while talking to the cab driver.

2 (57m 3s):
Give you any family in

1 (57m 4s):
Korea. I'm eating I'm eating my birth mother for the first time.

2 (57m 9s):
This is excited for you. Who told you about your birthday birth murder. I searched for her

1 (57m 15s):
through the adoption agency. It took two years two years of searching.

2 (57m 22s):
Well, that's good. That's what and what about your dad. I don't know. You don't know you don't worry about that anything. It should be better everything. Is the very blessing for you you you you going to meet your mother? I know. I know you're feeling because you spend your whole life without your mom. I know you spend your whole life you have without your mom. You need your mom on when you are no children, like your your babies, you know.

1 (58m 2s):
Going on the plane to you for me. It was kind of thinking about the last time I took that flight was when I was a baby and touching down it, you know, I remember thinking that the last time I was here was when I was five months

2 (58m 18s):
old.

1 (58m 19s):
She had a day to settle in before she met her birth mother. It was the first time she'd ever been to Asia and wandering around Soul. It was so easy to imagine the other versions of her life all around her. I go in stores or in restaurants in it. You know, I think oh could I be that woman behind the counter working there when I'd see a mom with her little girl. I feel like oh, well, is that what it would have been like, you know what to walk down the street holding my My mom's hand. On our second day in Korea Emily carefully did her hair and makeup and headed to the adoption agency to meet her birth mother.

1 (59m 6s):
They're reunions happened in a worn down meeting room in front of a bulletin board pinned with Christmas cards. I see this short Korean woman walk in the door. And you know we hug and I cry a lot. And she says me on hello, which means I'm sorry. It's the very first thing her birth mother says to her and I say Katana Yo, which means it's okay.

1 (59m 55s):
It's like looking in a mirror. That's a social worker in the room translating for them. Emily's birth mother told her story. She'd gotten pregnant as a teenager, which was completely shunned. There was no place in society for teenage single mothers a few days after Emily was born a relative came by with a police officer and social worker and they Emily oh a week later. Emily's birth mother went to the police station desperate to get her baby back. They told her it was too late. She called the adoption agency several times over the years to check in on her daughter learned. She'd been adopted by an American family.

1 (1h 0m 37s):
I talked with her on the phone. And when I asked her if she'd ever imagined the world where she did manage to get him Lee back. She told me I haven't really had those thoughts, but I always dreamt about her. Seeing her birth mother's face meeting her whole extended family later on that trip. It had a profound impact on Emily. I heard her talk about it on that podcast motherhood sessions and I was surprised and moved to hear her say that being in the same room with her birth family for the first time. I felt pretty you know, it's like growing up, you know, you your parents always tell you that you're pretty you're like, you know, whatever but I never really believed it but like being around this family and we all look alike.

1 (1h 1m 29s):
You know, I felt I felt like I was beautiful. I had never felt that deeply before. What do you think is behind that feeling because you know after growing up living a lifetime of feeling like you don't fit in and you know, wondering why so maybe certain guys don't like you or you know, why you don't, you know, maybe you're not like the most popular person in school. You know for the first time in my life, I felt like I made sense.

1 (1h 2m 13s):
Like I felt like my being made sense. I feel like my face made sense. Emily stayed with her birth family for three days in a town called dongju John and a little house by the railroad tracks. There is ceramic pots of kimchi and the yard a flat screen TV in the living room. That was always playing Korean variety shows and soap operas. Lots of visitors came by to welcome Emily. I felt warm familiar. On the first night Emily was getting ready for bed. And her birth mother came in and presented her with four boxes containing gold jewelry for Emily her kids and her husband Emily accepted them hesitantly then using a translation app her birth mother told her she said Korean mother sleep with her children and I'm like, oh God, here we go.

1 (1h 3m 2s):
Emily had heard about this that it's not unusual for Korean parents to sleep in the same room as their kids even when Adults in this room. There is only one bed to try to explain to her birth mother. Sorry, but I prefer to sleep alone. I wasn't clicking Emily ended up calling an interpreter. She'd hired who had already gone home for the day. And so I called her and asked her to explain, you know that I couldn't do it. And so, you know, and she did but you could see that

2 (1h 3m 34s):
you know, my birth mother was pissed

1 (1h 3m 37s):
and not really happy about it. She had missed years and years of my life. I can understand. You know, why she'd want to you know, sleep in the same room with me mmm, but I just couldn't do it a lot of the time with her birth mother was like this as a visitor. It was impossible to fit in completely. She was a stranger and family all at the same time dropping into a place that really felt like it could be home. But it wasn't

2 (1h 4m 17s):
Diane Wu is a shows managing editor that podcast motherhood sessions where we first heard Emily's story. It's a show about women and moms and moments of Crisis and change. It starts its second season this week my alternate

1 (1h 4m 35s):
universe. Things only get better or not worried. There's that a cloud in the deep blue sky, and I'm floating along

2 (1h 4m 53s):
where program is produced today by our executive editor David kestenbaum people who made Today's Show includes on a baker Susan Burton Ben Calhoun did a chip is Sean coal Mill drumming nor Guild Damien grave, Southland Jessica lessin happening in meeteetse. So Nelson Catherine Romano Nadia Raymond, Robin Sammy and Molly Sullivan Christopher Street alamak, Tierney and Julie Whitaker are managing editor is Diane. Whoo special. Thanks today to Sean Cairo the physicist at Caltech.

1 (1h 5m 15s):
Check

2 (1h 5m 15s):
it out David about the universe split around in the first place. His book about parallel universe is created by quantum physics is called something deeply hidden things also today to Peter bresnan. Alexandra sacks to be Craig Christine leakin park Nelson Andrew Parsons Eric Daniels, Joe McGee nazanin. Rafsanjani, Devon Taylor MI Munger and Molly Donahue our website This American Life dot-org This American Life has delivered a public radio stations by PRX the public radio exchange support for This American Life comes in the Lagunitas Brewing. P'nay feeling stories and songs Lagunitas IPA. And of course committed give me the pub in public radio find out more won't you at Lagunitas.com special?

2 (1h 5m 56s):
Thanks as always to our programs co-founder. Mr. Tareme, al-attiyah, you know put a LoJack on his car but like not a good one, but his car got stolen he starts tracking it and it shows his car but it actually goes left and right at the same time or or everyone alternative. Universe Photon firing here we go. Toy amount of Tia he is so obsessed with the polls for the Democratic primary, but you know, I don't think he really understands how to read them use explaining to me the other day that this pole of the

1 (1h 6m 30s):
electorate in New Hampshire.

2 (1h 6m 32s):
It actually goes left and right at the same time. I'm Ira Glass back next week with more stories of This American Life

1 (1h 6m 40s):
my alternate universe.

2 (1h 6m 52s):
Next week on the podcast of This American Life five women

1 (1h 6m 55s):
M8 and I felt like I was going to die. If I never met him they had like name someone like the hypnotizer. They're like, oh the hypnotizer the hypnotizer, but eventually I found it. It was me like I'm 12 and you're an adult talking this

2 (1h 7m 7s):
Harvey Weinstein goes to trial. We have the story of five women who dealt with a man who is not famous and how their own personal histories evicted how that went. That's next week on the podcast or in your local public radio station.