0 (0s):
Reboot your credit card with Apple Card, the credit card created by Apple. It gives you unlimited daily cash back that you can now choose to grow in a high yield savings account at 4.15% annual percentage yield. That's more than 10 times higher than the national average savings rate. Apply for Apple Card now on the wallet app on iPhone and start growing your daily cash with savings. Today. Apple card's subject to credit approval. Savings is available to Apple card owners subject to eligibility requirements, savings accounts provided by Goldman Sachs Bank, s a member F D I C, national average savings rate is from ft I c. Website. Terms supply

1 (33s):
In these dark and confusing and combative times where basic facts don't seem to matter anymore and every week brings more news where you think is that really happening. We thought here at our show we would try the most radical counterprogramming imaginable. And so today we bring you a show about delight and our story starts with my coworker Bim Ami, growing up in East London in Nigeria, learning about America from afar.

2 (60s):
I just remember the feeling of swimming in a lot of American culture. I watched a lot of sitcoms. I remember watching Roseanne Regini, family Matters.

1 (1m 9s):
It was a hodgepodge of Americana, a deep dive on Marilyn Monroe, but also the books of Maya Angelou and also the Cosby Spinoff Show A Different World.

2 (1m 17s):
And I remember kind of thinking, God, there are so many different types of black people doing their own version of black people things. And that was really interesting to me.

1 (1m 26s):
They knew there were problematic things about America, of course, who didn't know that?

2 (1m 30s):
But at the time I was like, yay American pop culture. This is great. And I had such a fixed idea of America, like there were a million high school movies and TV shows. So I was like, oh yeah, I know what if I was to land an American school today, I would know exactly what to do. I know the crowd I would fit in with. It was going to be proms, it was gonna be malls. I know where the cafeteria is. I understand that gym is a place of like hell. I understood everything around the idea of American school. I had a whole vision of myself and where I would fit in the hierarchy. Seriously. Absolutely. I'd be like the, you know, semi jog. Cause I used to run track at school, so I was like, you know, semi jog, but you know, sensitive theater child, but also kind of like, you know, everybody's friend.

2 (2m 14s):
Yeah. And I would be approachable by people who weren't as cool as me. Like I had a whole strategy planned out. Like

1 (2m 20s):
I, I totally pictured your American high school. It

2 (2m 23s):
Was, I was gonna be the every man who was also very cool, you know, incredibly bright, very beautiful, and very popular, but you know, wasn't conceited. It seemed a shame to waste all this knowledge that I had about how American society functions by me being in England. It was like, well what good is all this knowledge here? If you have the knowledge, then you wanna be tested. I want it to be tested. And the only real test is to actually live in America, to live that life.

1 (2m 59s):
And so when she was 19 after high school and before college, the, they don't call it high school and they don't call it college where she's from. She decided, I'm gonna do it. I'm gonna take the test, live the dream, go live in America. In fact, not just any old part of America, but a quintessentially American corner of America. And that's summer camp. Summer camp's, an institution that didn't really have in either of the countries where she'd spend her childhood, Nigeria and England. She was hired by a company that brings in teenagers from overseas to work as counselors. And she was assigned to a camp in a very un British location just outside Santa Cruz, California.

2 (3m 33s):
We were amongst Redwoods like some of the most ancient, most majestic things ever on the earth. Like they've seen <unk> dinosaurs. So we were between the redwoods and the ocean and I was like, man, you just don't get vistas like this in East London. It felt like so American like to be in nature like this. And we were sleeping in cabins. And I was like, yeah, this is a campo, right?

1 (3m 54s):
In fact, over and over she found herself seeing and doing things that she'd only encountered in American pop culture. Like for instance, she ate an old-fashioned diner with round stools at a long table and a waitress and a striped blouse or called her honey. Or there was the day that a guy in a grocery store aisle, a total stranger hit on her, which she'd only seen on television, which apparently is not a thing British men do very much. And each time these things happened, it was exhilarating and surprising.

2 (4m 20s):
So one of the other counselors at Camp Laurel invited us all to her parents' place on Lake Tahoe. And so we drove down in her car, which was a white El Camino truck, and she told us his name was Chester. And I thought, that's perfect. Chester Chester, the El Camino truck. Yes. At that point I, I didn't know how to drive. I still dunno how to drive because I lived in London and there's a fantastic tube and buses and whatever, and I walked everywhere, whatever,

1 (4m 49s):
I don't want to hear your British.

2 (4m 51s):
It

1 (4m 51s):
Was great chauvinism over our American way of life.

2 (4m 54s):
Oh my God. Anyway, we drove down to Tahoe and on the way we know we had the windows down. We were playing loud music, we're wearing jeans cutoffs. And I remember thinking yet again this moment of like stock clarity. I was like, oh my God, this is America. Like I'm in a truck, we're on a road, the wind is in our hair. This is perfect. We're a bunch of girls laughing about whatever and it's great. Like it was a performance, but I knew all the words and it was just like this very romantic, very kind of like windswept that felt really like, I was like, oh my God, it's not just a trope on TV or in film.

1 (5m 38s):
America is real,

2 (5m 39s):
America is real. I was like, oh my God, American things are happening to me.

1 (5m 44s):
Okay. So like I said at the beginning, our show today is about delight. And it was during that summer, BIM says, because it was so full of moments of delight, she started to really take notice of that feeling and think of it as a thing, a thing that she liked. It wasn't just enjoyable, she thought that feeling seemed important somehow.

2 (6m 1s):
And I thought, okay, this feeling is something worth repeating. And the idea that you can go and look for delight and you might find it was, I think fully planted that summer

1 (6m 16s):
In you,

2 (6m 17s):
In me. Yeah. Like if I actively sought out delight, I might be able to find it and replicate it forever. So I thought, okay, we'll just keep doing that. That was kind of like a way of organizing my life,

1 (6m 31s):
By the way, A very un British way to organize her life. Pi says to embrace delight wholeheartedly and unselfconsciously.

2 (6m 38s):
Fundamentally, I'm fighting against every urge in me, which is kind of like, don't, don't do that because I'm, I'm still British, I can't help that. So I'm always just thinking to myself just kinda like, oh, is that too much? Like, and I feel, I feel very much like somebody's disapproving nanny. Stop that. That's too much emotion. You know, there's a reason why our national sound is a tut stop that that's it's an admonishment. It's like, stop it. You know, there used to be a talk show and the, the, the theme song was a little child singing this very sing song, your Voice, it'll never work. It'll never work. And that is how I feel about most

1 (7m 18s):
Things. That would never be a show here.

2 (7m 21s):
But this kid just signed out the soul voice and then all the other, like a chorus of voices, joy say it'll never work. And I just, and I remember it's, it just make, every time I see that I'm like, aha. That is the spirits of Britain. So there's this poet that I discovered a couple of years ago, he's called Ross Gay and he's written a book where he basically keeps track of the things that delight him. And that's things, that's people, that's moments, whatever. And the word he used was negligence. He said it's a negligence if people don't take the time to honor the things that they take delight in, but more importantly that they share the things that they take delight in.

2 (8m 6s):
And if you don't do that, there's, there's a loss there. You have to do it to achieve humanity, you have to share delight.

1 (8m 13s):
And that's what we're gonna be doing today, right?

2 (8m 15s):
Yes. That's exactly what we're going to be doing today. We're gonna think about what delights us, why it delights us. It's why it's important to cultivate delight.

1 (8m 23s):
And with that, let me just hand over the show to you. You'll host the show from here. Okay. You wanna do the part where you say, from W B E Z Chicago I really do. Okay, hit it.

2 (8m 31s):
Do I say W B E Zed? Sure. Okay. From W B E Zed Chicago, it's this American life. I'm <unk>. Stay with us. Act one. The job of delight. It's one thing to be attuned to delight, but it's quite another to scrape off a sample, stick it on a slide and place it under a microscope. Enter Ross Gay, the poet I was talking about a moment ago.

2 (9m 11s):
Ross is an English professor at Indiana University. Years before we met and before we first broadcast this episode in 2020, he embarked on a specific mission to think about delight. He made it a practice. In fact, for one calendar year, Ross would ask himself, what delights me? And then he would write it down. He set rules. He would do it every day. He would draft them quickly and every single delight would be written by hand. He called them essays. Some of these essays eventually became a book, the Book of Delights. Here's Ross reading an excerpt of delight number 80 from the book Tomato on board in his living room in Bloomington.

4 (9m 55s):
What you don't know until you carry a tomato seedling through the airport and onto a plane is that carrying a tomato seedling through the airport and onto a plane will make people smile at you almost like you're carrying a baby. I did not know this until today, carrying my little tomato, about three or four inches high in its four inch plastic starter pot, which my friend Michael gave to me smirking about how I was going to get it home. Something about this at first felt naughty, not comparing a tomato to a baby, but carrying the tomato onto the plane. And so I slid the thing into my bag while going through security, which made them pull the bag for inspection. When the security guy saw it was a tomato, he smiled and said, I don't know how to check that.

4 (10m 38s):
Have a good day. But I quickly realized one of its stems, which I almost wrote as arms, was broken from the jostling and it only had four of them. So I decided I better just carry it out in the open. And the shower of love began Before boarding the final leg of my flight. One of the workers said, nice tomato, which I don't think was a come on, and the flight attendant asked about the tomato at least five times. Not an exaggeration. Every time calling it my tomato, where's my tomato?

4 (11m 19s):
How's my tomato? You didn't lose my tomato, did you? She even directed me to an open seat in the exit row. Why don't you guys go sit there and stretch out? I gathered my things and set the little guy in the window seat so she could look out. When I got my water, I poured some into the little guy's soil. When we got bumpy, I put my hand on the little guy's container, careful not to snap another arm off. And when we landed and the pilot put the brakes on hard, my arm reflexively went across the seat holding the low guy in place the way my dad's arm would when he had to break in that car without seat belts to speak of.

4 (11m 58s):
And one of my very favorite gestures in the Encyclopedia of Human Gestures,

2 (12m 12s):
The Book of Delights is a series of daily snapshots into one man's habits and pleasures. If you ever wanted an essay about the specific sensation of applying coconut oil to a shower damp body, that would be delight number 1 0 1 airports and the people Ross encounters in them come up a fair bit. His garden where we spent a very delightful afternoon talking about bumblebees and potatoes is the location of many a delight. Some of the delights in the book were things that surprised him while others were looking back in time. Memories of people no longer here, a lot of them featured familiar faces in familiar places. Ross was getting to reassess his environment and consider it through a new lens, a delightful lens.

4 (12m 56s):
I was learning as I was going and frankly I was probably learning how much some of these things delighted me. The question is always, why does that delight me? What does it do to a person to study delight or as it emerges to study joy every single day for a year? What do you discover?

2 (13m 16s):
One of the things he discovered is the mechanics of how to find delight every day as a discipline. Because delight doesn't just arrive. You need to actively go looking for it.

4 (13m 28s):
Being in a, in a state of like trying to train your curiosity and trying to train this sense of not knowing delight and curiosity are really tied up. Like you have to be okay with not knowing things or you have to be actually invested and happy about not knowing things.

2 (13m 50s):
The Book of Delights is a peculiar thing, an undertaking of serious academic rigor that also makes you feel good. Those things aren't meant to go together. The book offers up many thoughts on what delight is or what it could be, but it never defined it explicitly. The takeaway is that delight, while important is hard to pin down. Reading the book and talking to Ross about this made me feel like I was floating on a chemically enhanced but perfectly legal in 11 states cloud. I began to think of him as a sort of personal delight guru. And so my questions for him began to take on the strong whiff of a petri jus stick.

2 (14m 32s):
Did you end up with a grand unifying theory on what delight is?

4 (14m 40s):
No. No. But I did end up with what feels like a kind of beginning theory of what joy is and like I just had an image and the light is like the butterflies flying around and landing on the thing that is joy, right?

2 (14m 57s):
See, for truly to Ross, an important part of delight is that it's an invitation. By loving something, we allow other people an opportunity to love it too. Sharing, tapping someone on the shoulder to say, Hey, look.

4 (15m 14s):
So often I feel like I've had the experience of walking through the world and not seeing anything. And then someone's like, did you see how that, you know, you don't see it until you see it. And then when you see it you're like, whoa. We just had a bunch of people over here the other night and there was this one of them. This couple had this little kid. And so he starts yelling, rainbow, rainbow. And what did we do? We were all in here talking, being adults. Boom. We ran outside and started looking at the rainbow. Thank you, thank you. It's like, come gas with me, come gas with me. This is unbelievable.

2 (15m 59s):
Which brings us to act two, the squeals on the bus. It's not surprising that it's a child that runs in to tell everyone to come look at a rainbow. There's a feeling that delight is the preserve of children, and any adult who finds delight easily might be a simpleton or a Pollyanna. Perhaps you've noticed this whole hour is an argument against that. But for act two, let's spend a little time with a five-year-old. My former colleague, Robin Simeon's son Cole, who's now eight. When we first aired this episode, he'd recently had an experience around a mundane thing. Most adults, loath commuting. He was going to ride the school bus for the very first time.

2 (16m 41s):
Robin has the story.

5 (16m 43s):
Cole has been looking forward to this exact moment for years more than kindergarten or his first day at school. Taking the bus to Cole is epic. So one morning this past September with his new sneakers and Batman backpack on Cole and I walk down our driveway.

6 (16m 59s):
I can't wait. I'm a bus rider now. What happened to Old Cole? Yeah, old Cole is dead now. Oh wow. Yeah. When we get old, really old, we start to die.

7 (17m 18s):
Oh, these are very deep thoughts for the bus

5 (17m 22s):
Riding. The bus tole was not about riding the bus, it meant he was gaining on his big sister Josie. She's 10 getting a hair closer to that mysterious frustratingly out of reach thing that she has autonomy.

6 (17m 36s):
Wait for the bus here. Wait.

5 (17m 38s):
No, we're gonna walk down to the bus stop together. Come on. Why? That's where the bus comes together down on the corner. Did you know that?

6 (17m 45s):
No.

5 (17m 47s):
For a kid obsessed with this trip, he's surprisingly vague on some of the details.

7 (17m 51s):
See the tree?

6 (17m 53s):
What tree?

7 (17m 54s):
That tree right down there on

5 (17m 55s):
The corner.

6 (17m 56s):
Yeah. That's our tree. That's our tree. And then we have to wait there. Is that how Josie does it f every day. That's

7 (18m 5s):
How she does it every single day. That's how she's been doing it for three years.

6 (18m 10s):
What?

5 (18m 11s):
I know. No, it's your

6 (18m 11s):
Turn. Yeah, and And now it's not her turn.

5 (18m 22s):
We get to the corner and wait. Hey, good morning. Our neighbor Ian pulls up, sees us and gets out of his car.

6 (18m 30s):
Guess what I'm waiting for for my butt.

3 (18m 36s):
Your first

5 (18m 36s):
Day? Yep. First time on the bus.

6 (18m 43s):
Thank you. How are you guys doing?

5 (18m 44s):
Okay. Cole beams and pretty soon

6 (18m 47s):
I think I hear a bus.

5 (18m 49s):
You do?

6 (18m 50s):
Oh, it was that car.

5 (18m 53s):
Cole wills the bus to come sooner. Like everyone at every bus stop ever has done.

6 (18m 58s):
I thi, I think I heard my, my bus. It sounded different. I think I heard it.

5 (19m 8s):
I don't think so yet. Bob. We practice greeting the bus driver

6 (19m 12s):
And then we say Hi bus driver. I'm a little bit sad to say, how are you doing?

5 (19m 20s):
We do this a couple more times still. Cole tells me to stop because it's boring.

6 (19m 24s):
Bit boring

5 (19m 25s):
And then more waiting. Cole's mood dips. He has doubts,

6 (19m 29s):
But why? If there's not a spot for me in the bus.

5 (19m 34s):
Oh, there'll be a spot for you. They know you're coming. We told them you're coming. Okay.

6 (19m 38s):
Okay. We was taking off that bus. It's taking too long for me. We've been here for like over an hour.

5 (19m 49s):
It's been 10 minutes and

6 (19m 50s):
It's taking too long. It's taking crappy long,

5 (19m 55s):
Crappy long.

6 (19m 56s):
Yes. That's not something

5 (19m 57s):
That you say

6 (19m 59s):
Crappy.

5 (20m 0s):
No, we don't say that

6 (20m 2s):
Ryan.

5 (20m 4s):
I'm a little worried that maybe Cole has over imagined the bus ride and it won't live up. The ears of anticipation will only disappoint him in the end. And then rounding the corner, the bald bus rider. Oh man, that's my

6 (20m 17s):
Bus.

5 (20m 24s):
Stand to the sun.

7 (20m 26s):
Okay, let's go. Let's

5 (20m 27s):
Go. Cold hair's passed me and up the bus steps like it's nothing. He's daring I think to myself.

3 (20m 33s):
Hi.

6 (20m 35s):
Bye mom. Fuck.

5 (20m 37s):
Cole stood for a second longer facing the rows of seats and kids taking it all in completely lit up. I can't

6 (20m 44s):
Believe it. On the bus. Yes. Yes. It's my first time.

9 (20m 54s):
He's fine.

6 (20m 55s):
Better than fine. Now this is what I'm talking about.

2 (21m 3s):
That was new call with his producer Robin. Simeon Cole is currently finishing the third grade act three. Mrs. Meek shall inherit the earth. I think delight might actually be more profound when you've experienced more including real loss and tragedy. Ross Gay's book of delights is edged in despair in it. Ross writes about his dearly departed friends, his uncle Earl, his father, he calls them his deceased beloveds. But's. The way of delight.

4 (21m 44s):
When I think of joy, like grown up, joy is made up of our sorrow, just like it's made up of what is pleasing to us. Often it felt like I wasn't gonna be able to talk about delight without talking about these other things. You know, delight often implies its absence.

2 (22m 7s):
Noriko Meek knows all about that. After 72 years on earth, she's made some changes. Her daughter Miki talked to her about it a few years back.

9 (22m 16s):
My mom is 72 years old and in this new phase of her life where she's all about doing whatever she wants, I'm glad for her, but sometimes it's kind of annoying. Recently I was her chauffeur on a road trip through Texas and New Mexico. She woke me up at five 30 in the morning so we could drive an hour to watch the sunrise from some sand dunes in the middle of nowhere. She insisted on hanging out in a cold, crappy parking lot to take pictures of a rainbow. And when I asked if I could interview her, she told me maybe. But first she needed to take a bath. Her second one for the day. When she finally got out, she sat next to me on the queen bed. We were sharing 1, 2, 3, and then pulled out some floss. I

10 (22m 56s):
Said, clean mic,

8 (22m 58s):
You're gonna clean

9 (22m 59s):
Your teeth while we're talking.

8 (23m 1s):
Yeah, so gross. No worry. I can do whatever except for that

9 (23m 7s):
I'm sleeping right next

8 (23m 7s):
To you. I felt that

9 (23m 11s):
The first time I noticed she'd changed was over the summer standing outside of my brother's house. We've been talking about where to go grocery shopping. When she suddenly switched subjects, she asked me with this smiling but also totally serious face if I could tell that she was glowing. I wasn't totally sure what she was talking about. So I told her, yeah, I guess you look nice. And then I just as quickly changed the subject back to the cheap produce section at Trader Joe's.

8 (23m 37s):
So why did you ask

9 (23m 38s):
Me that then?

8 (23m 39s):
Well, because to me, so it was so obvious that you probably seen it. Cause inside, I mean I think I was glowing inside. Just radiating joy, just delight. You know?

9 (23m 53s):
I don't think I've ever used the word delight in a conversation with you ever.

8 (23m 57s):
I don't think I start using these words. Yeah. Just recently I think. Cause I tell my friends my life is, you know, just delightful. You know?

9 (24m 7s):
You say that.

8 (24m 8s):
Yeah, I do.

9 (24m 9s):
I've never heard you say that.

8 (24m 11s):
My, to my friends,

9 (24m 12s):
This is not the mom I grew up with. She was practical, frugal, and not a big fan of hugs, kisses or elaborating on her feelings. My mom was married to my dad for 43 years. They met in college in their early twenties and then went on to have six kids. My mom stayed at home with us full-time and she was kind of a hard ass. Okay, so what does the word delight mean to you? How would you even define that?

8 (24m 36s):
Just delight is just like light your heart up. Like ignite something. You know at the moment you just feel lightness.

9 (24m 47s):
So if you were to list about like what delights you, what's on the list? Like, okay,

8 (24m 50s):
Like first thing in the morning I wake up and I go to the bathroom and my total toilet is warm.

9 (24m 57s):
You have a a Japanese toilet with a warm toilet scene.

8 (25m 0s):
I just sit on it. It's just so warm and I just, I am so happy. I really feel, I am so happy when

9 (25m 8s):
I think about

8 (25m 8s):
Happens every morning.

9 (25m 10s):
Yeah, it's a consistent delight.

8 (25m 12s):
Consistent delight.

9 (25m 14s):
Other things on her list of delights, eating discounted donuts for breakfast. She keeps her freezer stocked with them. Going to a ballet class for seniors and reading biographies in bed for two hours every night. She also started traveling for fun for the very first time in her life. Right now she's on a big nature streak. She's hiked through Joshua Tree, the Badlands Death Valley, the Perise, and on and on and on. She exhausts me. So have you ever felt this way before?

8 (25m 41s):
No.

9 (25m 42s):
Never.

8 (25m 43s):
Never.

9 (25m 43s):
Not even like when we were kids or when you had us.

8 (25m 46s):
No.

9 (25m 47s):
You said no. Yeah,

8 (25m 50s):
I don't think I felt delighted.

9 (25m 52s):
What did you feel?

8 (25m 53s):
I was glad you guys are born and safe, but I don't think like raising kids, taking care of your dad. Yeah. I don't think I ever use the word delight cuz I mean, I'll place myself always like my niece or whatever last, you know, like money or whatever, you know, time. But then after kids all gone and your dad's gone, finally I have my life and I can do as I want whenever, whatever. Just no stress, no responsibility. That's why I say light, you know? I feel so light and I think delight.

8 (26m 36s):
Delight, voice. Just exact adjective for my life at this point. My life is really amazing. Okay. And then I see movies, right? You know, three movies a week, sometimes like, like eight 30 in the morning. That's just wonderful. How

9 (26m 55s):
Many other people in the movie theater? Everybody.

8 (26m 58s):
Just me. Just great.

9 (27m 5s):
After my dad died four years ago from cancer, my mom completely fell apart in a way I'd never seen her before. She suddenly became needy. She openly cried. Before then, all her energy had gone into keeping my dad alive. She'd spent a decade caring for him, constantly driving him to the ER in the middle of the night and checking his oxygen levels while he slapped. We never really talked about what it was like for her watching him deteriorate so much that sometimes he felt like a stranger. But then when he was suddenly gone, all the feelings she'd pushed down, came out in this big devastating wave for a while. She could barely function

8 (27m 41s):
Four years. It took four years. I really took a very small step forward after your dad died, just to make sure I'm alive. So each morning I get up and I have this terrible pain in my chest, but then I just say, okay, I think I can make myself live till the end of this day. And that's all I thought about.

9 (28m 3s):
Do you feel surprised sometimes that you feel this good?

8 (28m 7s):
I mean, when dad died and I was just so sad, I didn't think this would ever happen. Hmm. I, I really thought my life was over.

9 (28m 19s):
My mom grieved intensely like this for about six months and then I asked her to come live with me in my tiny apartment for a while. She said yes and I didn't expect her to, I thought she'd worry too much about being a burden, but this time she agreed with me that staying with me might actually make her feel better. I wouldn't let her sleep on the couch. So we got into this whole nighttime routine where we'd put on our pajamas and read in my bed like some old married couple. My brother came to visit us once at 10:00 PM My mom tapped me on the knee and said, time to hit the hay. Mick. We stood up together and he was like, what is happening? My mom's choice to stay with me. Mark the beginning of her opening herself up and putting herself first.

9 (28m 59s):
Right now her travel calendar for 2020 is already all booked up. Alabama, Alaska, Italy, Japan, Chicago, and Spain.

8 (29m 7s):
Maybe because my life is getting shorter, that pushes me to be more courageous. Yeah. You know, so every day I wake up like with some expectation anticipation. Hmm. Yeah. On my calendar, there's nothing I don't wanna do.

9 (29m 25s):
If dad had stayed alive and been healthy, do you think you could still feel the way that you do now?

8 (29m 29s):
Probably not in terrible because with him I, my life, you know, I'll have more responsibilities. He will be number one in my life and then, and then my knees will come after his. Yeah. So it's just almost sometimes sounds like, oh, I'm glad he's gone. You know? I'm not saying that, but because he's gone. This is the life I have and I just want it to be delightful, you know? I think it's okay. It is okay. Yeah. This question's kind of dumb. That's my mom telling

0 (30m 8s):
Me she thinks my questions are kind of dumb.

8 (30m 11s):
Why is it dumb? Delightful. Just too annoying. People will think you're really annoying. Yeah, I think so. That's why, you know, I don't know why you wanna do this because the people and they go, oh my gosh, I'm so sick of listening to her. Just so self-absorbed, you know? And so what would you say to that? But I'm sorry. I am I, I do feel that way genuinely and sometimes I feel like I earned it.

3 (30m 42s):
Making

2 (30m 43s):
Meek a constant delight. Also a producer on our show

3 (30m 54s):
Coming

2 (30m 54s):
Up. Would you call yourself a dealer of delight? Hmm?

11 (30m 60s):
Are you the Fed? I'm a dealer now. I know it was a setup nut. Yes. I pedaled delight. I'm sling delight. You know what I'm saying? I'm on the internet corners. What you need, which need I got it.

2 (31m 11s):
That's in a minute. From Chicago Public Radio. When our program continues,

12 (31m 17s):
Support for this American life comes from Crooked Media's newest podcast, dream Town. The story of Alan Dream Town is the zany true story of one small city in the California desert and the scrappy sometimes morally dubious characters determined to reinvent it. In 2014, Alan was so broke, there was talk of dissolving it completely. Then a stranger came to town with a wild idea to make Alan Alto great again weed and it worked for a while until it's spectacularly didn't listen to Dream Town. The story of Alan and official Tribeca selection wherever you get your podcasts.

0 (31m 54s):
Support for this American life comes from Dignity Memorial. When something's important, a wedding, a vacation, a child's education, we plan for it in advance. Your celebration of life is no different. A prepaid funeral plan protects your family because no one should have to plan for a loss while they're experiencing one. Dignity memorials compassionate professionals will help you plan a memorable service in advance with an attention to detail that's second to none so your family doesn't have to learn more@dignitymemorial.com.

13 (32m 27s):
New York Times games make me feel like I'm amazing.

14 (32m 30s):
Wordle makes me feel things that I don't feel from anyone else.

8 (32m 34s):
I absolutely love

3 (32m 35s):
Spelling Bee.

15 (32m 36s):
The Times Crossword puzzle is a companion that I've had longer than anyone outside of my immediate family. When

16 (32m 42s):
I can finish a hard puzzle without hints, I feel like the smartest person in the world. It

2 (32m 47s):
Gives me

17 (32m 48s):
Joy every single

18 (32m 49s):
Day. Join us and play all New York Times games

19 (32m 52s):
At ny times.com/games.

18 (32m 55s):
Subscribe by June 29th to get a special offer. It's

2 (32m 59s):
This American life. I'm vi taking over the show from Ira for the day. Yes, we are coming over here Stealing Your Jobs. Today's show, the show of Delights, which first aired at the beginning of 2020, has stories about how we go about making and feeling and actively seeking out delight, which is all around us. By the way, the poet Roque ambassador for delight writes about a time he was in New York and saw a man feeding a pigeon perched on his shoulder. He looks closer and sees

4 (33m 32s):
The bird dipping its head into the hand. The man must have been holding very near to his own face, said that the feeding was not only kind of romantic, but alluded to that original feeding the bird experienced a mother dropping mastic, vittles into the tiny chirps gaped mouth, which is after all the first romance.

2 (33m 53s):
It sounds like something out of a children's picture book, doesn't it? Feeding, caring, being companions to our animals. And with that, we've arrived at Act four. The elephant in the bedroom. Lisa Scap has a job that's out of a children's book. She's a night zookeeper at the Denver Zoo. So while most people are asleep, she's doling out snacks, checking the animals are warm and cozy, turning out their lights and saying goodnight. Dana Chive spent a night with Desa at the zoo.

20 (34m 24s):
Being at the zoo at night is like being backstage. Hours after a play has ended, the public is long gone. The vendors have packed up their dipping dots and Zeus swag. The paths that wind around the animal exhibits are empty and dark and a little creepy. I follow DE's flashlight as we walk around. Desa, your job is very dark.

17 (34m 43s):
Yeah, but you can't see where you're walking.

20 (34m 47s):
Usually it's just her. The security guards another night zookeeper and three wild animals. Di is the best job in the whole world.

17 (34m 56s):
It's the best job in the whole world.

20 (34m 58s):
See we walk into a building through a back door. The special zookeeper entrance Di turns the lights on and I see something I've never seen before. An elephant on the ground on his side

21 (35m 12s):
Sleeping. Describe it.

17 (35m 16s):
So Chuck is sleeping. Oh, he's waking up. He just stretched his back leg out. He's got a push up with his front feet doing some upward facing dog stretch and now he's ready for some food.

20 (35m 31s):
Each of the 450 different species at this zoo has its own nighttime routine. Andis has put them to bed so many times by now. She knows their individual sleep preferences, where they like to sleep, how they like to sleep with whom they like to sleep. There's a lady lizard who uses a male lizard as a mattress and lemurs who cuddle in branches. The gorillas are the touchiest about their sleep. De avoids them after five.

17 (35m 56s):
Do

20 (35m 56s):
Any animals spoon?

17 (35m 58s):
Oh, a lot of animals spoon our Red River Hogs spoon. The Red River Hogs. Yeah, we'll see them. They sleep like a pack of sausages.

20 (36m 5s):
Sorry hogs. I'm sure she means chicken sausages. There are one year old kamodo dragon siblings who sleep crammed together inside a log. A quick aside, because I find it delightful, those little kimodo guys don't have a father because their mother impregnated herself. I'm not kidding. Female Kimodo Dragons can impregnate themselves. Desa knows all the animals. Many on a first name basis, she checks on Daphne the crocodile and Coco the porcupine. Marie the moray and fern the bongo fern.

17 (36m 36s):
Hey Fern. Fern. Trying to eat my microphone. The tree. We're just saying night night.

20 (36m 45s):
These animals know Des. They have a relationship. They're not alarmed to see us. In fact, a lot of them seem expected like they've been waiting for her to come by and tuck them in. Kangaroos in the kangaroos section. Everyone is crouching in a group

17 (36m 58s):
Tonight. Rouse

20 (36m 59s):
Bakari, the zebra is still standing up. Zebras can rest on their feet.

17 (37m 3s):
Goodnight Sir.

20 (37m 5s):
Bugsy and Boo Otter literally cannot wait one more second for their dinner. I was gonna play you a bunch more cute animal sounds here, but my editor said move it along. So here's some music instead. What's so charming about animals going to sleep? Is it that we're seeing creatures that are so different from us doing something so familiar reminding us of a commonality that we all have to do this one thing to survive. You know what? Who cares? Here's a baby flamingo who wants us to leave him alone so he can get some shut eye.

17 (37m 43s):
Sorry.

20 (37m 45s):
Desa has the easygoing and gentle demeanor of someone who legitimately loves her job. A job we all said we wanted as kids along with firefighter and astronaut. And unlike the rest of us civilians at the zoo, she gets to have direct contact with the animals, take care of them, which she loves. When I'm there, the zookeepers are hand feeding Eleanor a four month old Kudo, which is a kind of antelope. Eleanor stands on spindly legs and chugs the entire bottle in one go.

17 (38m 15s):
Cool girl. Eleanor

20 (38m 18s):
Eleanor's dad. Joe comes over looking for some treats, which Desa gives him Joe the dad and then she does something else. You just eat one of

17 (38m 25s):
Joe's treats. I did. I wasn't, they're not as tasty as I thought they'd be. I just ate a little like that bit.

20 (38m 34s):
I take a bite. It's of Grassy. Desa says primate biscuits aren't bad. Then we both confess to trying dog food when we were kids. There is one animal who's having a rough go of it. We walk around to the back of the Great Ape house and di points our flashlight at a tree at the top. Tangled up in some branches is a sheet blowing gently in the wind.

17 (38m 59s):
One of the reasons we came down here is we have Jay the orangutan. He is,

20 (39m 8s):
Oh my gosh,

17 (39m 9s):
He is newer to the zoo. Is that so He's currently sleeping in a tree.

20 (39m 16s):
Wait, that's no,

17 (39m 17s):
So

20 (39m 18s):
That's yeah, that's an Ang wait. Yeah. Is he wearing a blanket?

17 (39m 21s):
Yeah, he's, he's wrapped in a sheet.

20 (39m 24s):
Jay should be inside where it's warm. Orangutans are from the rainforest of Sumatra and Borneo. And I sound this baffled because I really thought I was just looking at a wayward sheet caught in a tree. But then the sheet moved. Jia was under it, clutching it tightly around his little body. It really looks like there's a little person

17 (39m 42s):
Up there. Yeah.

20 (39m 45s):
Jaya's only been at this zoo for a few months. He moved here from a zoo in Minnesota in August. He's still getting used to it. A few days ago something spooked him. He retreated to the yard and climbed up a tree. Do you worry about him in the cold like

17 (39m 58s):
This? We do worry about him. Yeah. So from the records today, it looks like the keeper took some binoculars and tried to look at his fingers and toes to see if there are any like signs of frostbite and is and they're really bright red so we'll just, you know, check on him throughout the night.

20 (40m 21s):
I guess one of the complicated things about delight is that it can exist like a kernel at the center of misfortune. Sometimes delight is found in the ability to take care of another living thing that needs you. It's nice to be needed. Do you have a favorite animal?

17 (40m 43s):
My favorite animal is Rudy the Rhino.

20 (40m 46s):
Why?

17 (40m 46s):
Because he's the best. Why is he the best? He's like a puppy. Yeah. So he's really gentle and nice and mostly I think I love Rudy because most of the animals that I have built a kind of relationship with, because I see him all the time, it was usually cuz like I give them food. Rudy, I do not give him food, but he will like come to me when I call him. Like if he's outside and I need him to come inside cuz it's too cold, I call him and he'll come over. Yeah, he like responds to me and I don't know, he is my best friend.

20 (41m 24s):
This thing about Rudy and what a nice guy he is. What if the joy we get from interacting with animals, the idea that we can have relationships of mutual affection is a total illusion. What if the truth is it for these animals anyway? Our relationships are mostly transactional. Does the delight then disappear or maybe that is the transaction. We give them food and they give us delight.

3 (41m 54s):
Oh,

17 (41m 55s):
Just got a text message.

20 (41m 57s):
There's one last moment I wanna tell you about.

17 (41m 59s):
So one of our hoofstock keepers, Matt is asking if we can check on Charlie's guillotine door to make sure it got throw got closed. He's sure he did it, but you know how it is. He'll wake up at 2:00 AM in a panic.

20 (42m 17s):
Charlie is a Vietnamese pot-bellied pig. His gatekeeper, Matt couldn't remember if he'd shut the door to his yard. We go to check on Charlie. Yes, his door is closed. He's completely sacked out. He's made himself a big nest of hay. Somehow managed to cover most of his body with it, his head included. So all we can see is his belly rising and falling with each deep sleepy breath.

17 (42m 39s):
Nice Charlie.

22 (42m 43s):
Good boy.

20 (42m 45s):
I like Charlie. He's terse but uncomplicated. You know, he knows his name. He recognizes that Desa is talking to him and he responds. They're communicating across species for me. This one short interaction contains all the magic of her job. Desa and a peg are talking to each other.

2 (43m 11s):
Dana Chives, whose love for her dog, delights me co-produced today's show. Desa is still a night zookeeper and was actually promoted to Lead Night Zookeeper last year, which she says is her dreamiest of jobs. And for those of you who care, Ja, the orangutan is doing great. Act five delight at the end of the tunnel.

4 (43m 41s):
I suspect it is simply a feature of being an adult, what I will call being grown or a grown person.

2 (43m 48s):
Again, Roque

4 (43m 50s):
To have endured some variety of thorough emotional turmoil to have made your way to the brink. And if you're lucky to have stepped back from it, if not permanently, then for some time or time to time,

2 (44m 3s):
This is delight number 100

4 (44m 6s):
Grown.

2 (44m 7s):
Ross goes on to talk about the importance of seeing things as they are in the moment where you don't feel panic or despair or doom.

4 (44m 15s):
And knowing what I have felt before and might feel again, feel a sense of relief, which is cousin to or rather water to delight.

2 (44m 28s):
This last story is about someone who's defined by delight but then loses it. I first got to know her through her blog, little known Black History Facts, which is one of my favorite things. It's an affectionate parody of the Black History Month rollout of African American excellence that happens every February. But the achievements on this site, they're all made up. Things like inventor of the church clap or first person to put more than 25 berets in one child's hair at one time. You know, black people stuff. The person behind these perfectly observed jokes is one of the funniest people I know her name's Tracy Clayton, although you may know her as Broche Makeover on the internet where she has legions of fans.

2 (45m 13s):
Tracy ran little known Black History Facts for five years. She's the creator of so many of my favorite things, but little known Black History Facts is the one I think about most often. Even if Tracy doesn't, do you remember anything from that ridiculous blog?

11 (45m 28s):
No.

2 (45m 28s):
There was Derek Morris who was the first person to rap loudly to himself while standing at a bus stop. Don't like him. No, there was,

11 (45m 36s):
Oh dare.

2 (45m 37s):
There was Haberford Bliss and he was the first person to reneg in a Game of spades. You

11 (45m 42s):
Know what, I don't even play spades, I just know that that is a bad thing. I think that's,

2 (45m 46s):
There was also George G Money Spencer, who was the first. He was the first person to end every sentence with it, is what it is.

11 (45m 56s):
Yeah, that's aka the patron saying of reality shows. They say that all the time. Exactly. At the end of the day, it is what it is. Of course. No,

2 (46m 5s):
Another great one was Tracy and I are friends now, but I was a fan first. A big fan. What makes her comedy so good is her incredible observation skills. She works from a position of what the southern writer, Kisa Layman calls Black abundance. Her references come from her own black American experience growing up in Louisville, Kentucky, as well as wider culture, she marries high concept to the very silly and little known Black history Facts were just one of the many things she created. Tracy's a one woman production line of golden internet content that gifted brain of her spots delight and amplifies it. In fact, it felt like Tracy's entire life was about cultivating glee and then seemingly at the height of her powers, she just stopped making stuff.

2 (46m 52s):
She lost her ability to feel delight.

11 (46m 55s):
I felt like I was laying on the bottom of the ocean floor and looking up in like, I could see like the sun in like people on a beach somehow. But I'm just like miles and miles and leagues and leagues away from it.

2 (47m 7s):
Things got really bad for Tracy and for her that was extreme because delight wasn't just a job, it was also her identity. This is a story of what happened when things went dark for Tracy and how she made it back to a place of delight. In 2015, Tracy and her friend Heaven Nega began making a weekly podcast with buzzfeed called Another Round. Hi

23 (47m 36s):
Everyone, I'm Heaven.

11 (47m 37s):
I'm Tracy and welcome to

23 (47m 38s):
Another Round with Heaven and Tracy.

11 (47m 42s):
Who's that?

2 (47m 45s):
There was nothing else like it at the time. We are two black women trading witty banter and talking about the stuff that was important to them, fueled by their natural chemistry. And of course, given the name of the show, a good amount of booze. Another round did so much so well. Interviews with academics, comedians and MacArthur. Geniuses like Lin Manuel Miranda and Nicole Hannah Jones. They even interviewed then presidential candidate, Hillary Clinton, but that was only part of it. Their show was funny, intellectual, thoughtful, and also deeply brilliantly silly and loved their quizzes. One of Heaven's masterpieces was a multiple choice quiz on fake names all as she put it.

23 (48m 25s):
Is this a white man's name or just some syllables like Mash together British Edition.

11 (48m 30s):
British people already have super weird names.

23 (48m 32s):
Babies doing the most already.

24 (48m 34s):
Anyways,

2 (48m 35s):
In this quiz, Traci had to guess which of the names Heaven was reading. Belonged to an actual real person.

24 (48m 41s):
All right, fre Fiddles. Word, prim. Prem Willy. I quit Trish Tram, hunt Rim. Ram Pendleton,

11 (48m 54s):
I'm gonna say is one of the last two I vote for Trish

24 (48m 58s):
Tram. You're correct. Oh my God, Tracy, I'm so proud of you.

2 (49m 3s):
Another Round was a hit. They were doing live shows, selling up venues across the country and abroad. They won awards, they sold merchandise. Heaven and Tracy were being recognized by fans in the street. As it grew, the show was getting more demanding to make it needed more money, more staff, more time, and they weren't getting any of that. Then Heaven left Buzzfeed. She took a job at the Late Show with Stephen Colbert and came back to record new episodes when she could, but things weren't the same. Tracy understood, but it was still hard on both of them.

11 (49m 35s):
We didn't have a good way to manage that transition. And I think that since I was the only one in the building who was like accessible all the time, a lot of the work fell on me and my shoulders, which I'm happy to do the work, but I got tired and I didn't know it. You know, I would wake up like, oh my God, again, you know, I can't do this, but I'm doing it. Anyway.

2 (50m 2s):
I was working at Buzzfeed during this time and ended up co-hosting three episodes sitting in for either Tracy or Heaven. There's one episode in particular that really sticks in my mind.

11 (50m 12s):
So everyone heaven sends all of our love from the very, very top and bottom of her heart. She is gonna be back soon. She's still busy making magic and stuff with Mr. Colbert. But in the meantime and in between time we've got a Bim in the studio. In the studio,

2 (50m 35s):
The shoulders are working, hit 'em with the shoulders. A

11 (50m 37s):
A

2 (50m 38s):
With a

11 (50m 39s):
A.

2 (50m 41s):
It was a ridiculous time. That's

11 (50m 42s):
Like so much fun.

2 (50m 44s):
It was the funnest episode. And I think afterwards I was chatting to you and it was like, okay, well we finished that up. We, you know, done recording. And I, I was like, so what are you up to for the rest of the day? And you said back to bed for a depression nap. Like the minute the mic went off, you were just kind of like, all right, I'm out.

11 (51m 4s):
Yeah, yeah. Back to my real life. That's very true.

2 (51m 7s):
Do you remember that tool?

11 (51m 9s):
No, not that. I mean, I remember that episode and that stuff, but I don't remember the depression nap stuff. And I think that's because I was depressed and like, your memory just doesn't, it's not there. Also when every day feels like another day and another day, it's just like, I couldn't even tell you like what year that happened. Mm. But it, it sounds, sounds about right. I feel like that's the theme for a pretty long period of my life.

2 (51m 33s):
Listening back to the episodes of the show that aired during this dark period, it's hard to discern that anything was amiss. And that's because Traci proved to be adept at employing that age old showbiz trick. She faked it,

11 (51m 46s):
Having to fake. The funk as it were, was driven mostly by I can't let other people down. And it was also sort of like muscle memory, I guess I'm really, really, really good at small talk.

2 (52m 0s):
When you are faking delights, do you feel delights? Like does it bleed into it?

11 (52m 7s):
Yeah, I, I would kind of like get lost and like kind of caught up in the conversation. So I did have chances to get kind of like carried away. The effects were not long term, but it did give me a nice little, little break, little pockets of okayness here and there. But I tell you what, like as soon as the interviews and stuff are over, stepping out of that, stepping out of the stew, it was just like, like I had gone 12 rounds with Tyson.

2 (52m 37s):
The show eventually went on hiatus, Tracy went on disability. At first it was a relief to just stay home. Leaving the house would've meant dealing with New York, the noise, the people, the subway. But then Tracy realized she was staying in because she was afraid to leave her apartment.

11 (52m 54s):
This one time, like I was supposed to go somewhere, I was all dressed somehow by the grace of God and whoever else was watching, like I was dressed, I looked decent and I didn't look depressed. And I got to the door of my apartment and I thought about the trek on the subway and I was like, I can't. And I just, I didn't go out. I put myself through all of that, like getting dressed and like it had taken hours for this to happen. And I'm fighting with myself like, be kind to yourself. It's okay if your eyebrows don't match, it's okay if it's taking you four hours to get ready, just do it. And then by the time I got to the door, I was just like, I expended so much energy getting myself together. I cannot also expend energy like trying to make my brain focus on like, which stop do I get off of?

2 (53m 39s):
She did less and less and the fact that she was doing less made her feel even worse. She turned her quick, talented mind inwards, turned herself into a target and was relentless at attacking herself. She couldn't turn it off. Tracy stopped cleaning her apartment, barely changed clothes.

11 (53m 57s):
I just remembered being in my room on my bed. The entire place is a mess. And I was just laying there and I was just thinking about how nobody knows, you know that right now. This is where I am. And I remember getting my phone to text my friend Teddy who lives in Louisville and I was just like, I'm having a tough time and I just need somebody to know it. And he was very gracious. He was like, you know, I'm glad that you reached out and I know it now, but I don't know, there was something about, something about just wanting somebody to know that you're sad.

11 (54m 45s):
That I was like, wow, I'm really sad.

2 (54m 48s):
After almost a year of feeling truly terrible, Tracy had something that felt like a breakthrough. It started with a ritual she'd been doing every night for months.

11 (54m 57s):
Oh, there was this moment when I realized that Otis Reddings sitting on the dock of the bay is about depression. And I was like, oh my gosh, this entire time, are you kidding me? I thought it was just some like old man song about fishing, cuz I only knew the chorus, but the words, oh my gosh. Sitting on the dock of the bay watching the time or the time roll away. Yeah, just wasting time. Just like nothing else to do. Nowhere else to go.

2 (55m 21s):
So Tracy had a playlist of sad songs, including sitting on the dock of the bay and every night around 9:00 PM she'd stand at the window of her apartment smoking and drinking and looking down at the street, feeling like a caricature of a sad girl.

11 (55m 37s):
And this one night after however many months of this ritual, I just started to dance. Like first it was like a little sway to like whatever song was playing. It may have been the oldest wedding song because I mean, you know, it's got like a little, hey, you know, it's kinda like a, you can two step a little bit to it. And after that I was like, maybe I wanna listen to other things to dance to. And so I switched to a different playlist, couldn't tell you what it was. And I think I danced for like an hour. Danced and smoked and just drank and it felt good and I was smiling and I was confused, but I was like, don't pick it apart.

11 (56m 18s):
Like just, and I also like, I could feel how ridiculous I probably looked because I mean it's not like I was two seven the whole time, right? It was just like some weird interpretive like can this muscle still move? Can I still do a back bend? I cannot. I learned that, but it felt, I don't know, it almost felt like my body was like trying to reach my brain somehow because it wasn't my brain that told my body to start dancing. I'm pretty sure. I think my body was like, you know what? You know who I haven't talked to in a long time. The brain. Let me check in with the brain and see how things are going. Oh terribly. Well let's dance a little bit

2 (57m 5s):
During these months. She also looked at professionals and she chose a couple who looked like her, understood her.

11 (57m 12s):
They're all, and when I say ah, I mean both my therapist and my psychiatrist don't know how it happened, but they're both black women. Yay. They will both do not interviews sessions online. So I didn't have to move, leave my house when I couldn't. I didn't have to put on pants when I couldn't. One day I got emotional because I woke up late and I forgot about my appointment. So I'm on the little Skype or whatever and I had my bonnet on and I was like, I'm so sorry that I still have this bon on. I know it's not professional. And my therapist said, it's okay, I wear one too. And I was like, every you, what's up?

2 (57m 53s):
Eventually sometime lost year. Tracy found herself asking variations of the same question. She thinks heaven might have mentioned it. It was this. Is there anything good that your depression has given you? It sounded perverse, but she couldn't stop thinking about it. Couldn't stop mulling the question. And she found that thinking about the answers made her feel good. When she mentioned it to her therapist, she told Tracy that finding something good in a bad situation could be a good sign of healing.

11 (58m 25s):
And I was like, sounds fake, but what do you mean? And she was like, she said the thing where it helps you connect with your emotions better. I don't know what that means. I don't know what it means to connect with an emotion. Like I feel it, I recognize it, I don't want it, I don't like it. You know, I'm ignoring it. I guess that's what she means. Yeah, ignore

2 (58m 42s):
It. I think you're answering the question.

11 (58m 44s):
Alright, you check that off my to-do list.

2 (58m 48s):
So with the question in mind, Tracy started writing in a brand new journal, not unlike Ross Gay's book of delights. She calls it a gratitude journal, which sounds earnest and yes, she's aware, not very cool. It's a simple practice. A couple of times a week she writes down what she's grateful for. When she started, she didn't have much faith. A

11 (59m 10s):
Few months ago I'd have been like, this is just like the most ridiculous, you know, it's not gonna work. It's like, you know, people are like, get up and walk around the block and you won't be depressed. Yes, I will. You know, and eventually this gratitude journal's gonna turn into a chore. Another thing that I can't keep up that has not happened at all. Like it really helps to remember good things that happened to you.

2 (59m 31s):
It's been shockingly effective. In his delight. Essay at Bird Feeding the poet Roque Witnesses a man feeding a pigeon in the park. Less than 30 seconds later, he watches another bird, a tufted tit mouse. This time swooped down into the hand of a different holy unconnected person. A lovely moment twice over. But he wouldn't have noticed that second bird. He said if the first bird hadn't prepared him to see it, Tracy's fans thought of her as their first bird. Not only a delightful person by herself, but also a doorway to more delight. Now she's figuring out how to be her own first bird to develop a system to do for herself, but had previously come naturally, Tracy's back at work.

2 (1h 0m 23s):
She's making new podcasts, interviewing people, being hilarious, and she's not faking it. When her mom calls with a four year old great-nephew, Jayden, she's able to pick up the phone, even if it's hard at first sometimes.

11 (1h 0m 36s):
She had called, I answered the phone. I'm like, yeah, not doing great. I kind of wanna get off the phone. And she was like, okay. And then she calls Jayden in and I'm just like, Ugh, I don't, cause he's got so much energy, like, you know, when I don't have the energy, he still has the energy. So sometimes I'm just like, get this kid away from me. You know? Like love him, love him to death, but like I just couldn't do it in like times of like high stress. And the first thing he says when he sees me is, oh hey Tracy. Like I just interrupted him from doing something to his important four-year-old duties. Hey Jayden, how you doing? Blah, blah, blah, blah. And then my mom will go ask her the question and then I'm just like, Ugh, I don't feel like it. But then he says, okay, I have a question. And then I'm like, what's your question Jayden? Why are you so cute?

11 (1h 1m 19s):
And I instantly just perk up and smile. I know what the question's gonna be. I know I still don't have an answer and I know like even as he's saying, I'm just like, it's not gonna work. But as soon as he says it, I'm just like, I don't know, man. Why you so cute? I dunno. Being able to deal with family and a hugely energetic child is definitely a sign of like Mama's coming back. Sophia home now.

2 (1h 1m 45s):
Was that a color full reference?

11 (1h 1m 46s):
It was. It was. This is the blackest

2 (1h 1m 48s):
This American Life

3 (1h 1m 50s):
Has ever been

11 (1h 1m 52s):
Sophia

2 (1h 1m 53s):
Home. Now

11 (1h 1m 54s):
What?

2 (1h 2m 2s):
Tracy Clayton is a freelance podcaster and writer whose work can be found in Cosmopolitan and Louisville Magazine.

3 (1h 2m 37s):
Our

2 (1h 2m 37s):
Program today was produced by me and Dana Chavis. People who put together today show include Elna Baker, Emmanuel Berry, Zoe Chase, Sean Cole, nor Gill, Damien Grave, Michelle Harris, Miki Meek, Lena Masis, stone Nelson, Katherine Rayo, Ben Fallen, Nadia Raymond, Robin, Simeon, Alyssa Ship, Christopher sw, Matt Tierney, and Nancy Dyke. Our managing editor for today's show is Diane Wu, our executive editor for today's show is David Kestenbaum. Additional Production Help on Today's Rerun from Lama Stuffer. Special thanks today to Heaven Tu Michael Mackenzie, Emily Miles, Ethan Fried, Amy Marcala, and Joanna Kagan. If you liked hearing Ross Gay on our show today and want to read more work by him, his latest book is Inciting Joy.

2 (1h 3m 23s):
He also has a follow up to the book of Delights coming out later this year. It's called The Book of More Delights. Our website is this american life.org. This American Life is delivered to public radio stations by px, the Public Radio Exchange. Thanks to my boss, IRA Glass, who guided me as I hosted the show this week. He really got stuck in, though it did get a little annoying when he brought his soup into the studio. I'm BIM <unk> Ira Glass will be back next week with more stories of this American life.

1 (1h 4m 22s):
Next week on the podcast of this American life, rats, nearly everywhere there were people, there were rats. They feed off our agriculture and garbage wild creatures. You've learned brilliantly at

28 (1h 4m 34s):
Rats are like obsessed with what we know about what they know. Like they never want us to know what they know. It's like CIA level mind games.

1 (1h 4m 43s):
Mind games with rats. Next week on the podcast, we're your local public radio station nation.