2 (1s):
Support for This American Life comes from square square is more than a credit card reader. It's a whole system of tools built to grow any kind of business from invoicing to online stores. Go to square.com. / go / American to see how you can take your business from square one to whatever is next. Support for This American Life comes from Capital One where you can open a savings account in about five minutes and earned five times the national average. Just imagine five times more savings toward that overdue home edition, maybe even an addition on that addition. This is banking reimagined. What's in your wallet Capital One and a member FDIC WBZ Chicago, it's This American Life.

2 (48s):
I'm Ira

1 (48s):
Glass. Hey, how's it going? I feel a little chilly. I'm so excited man. This is the day.

2 (56s):
Yeah, this is the day

1 (58s):
that the big hop on a pier in Portland. Maine was Windows looking out on the water. I'm Dean or wearing a royal

2 (1m 5s):
blue three-piece suit American flag

1 (1m 8s):
tie American flag pin on his lapel Hey Joe. Yes, yes. Yes, it arrived yesterday. So it's all it's all the US flag. This is recorded. Three weeks ago a be 45 others from 25 countries are becoming US citizens and just before

2 (1m 34s):
the ceremony started. Abdi was told that he would be leading the

1 (1m 36s):
entire group at the end in the Pledge of Allegiance. So John, let me see if I sound preference I pledge allegiance. The flag of the United States of America and to the Republic for which it stands one nation under God indivisible with liberty and justice for all. Yes, and the pronunciation problem. Perfect, but slow down. Okay. Yeah. It's been a long journey to this moment for Abdi starting in 2013.

2 (2m 6s):
We did a whole episode of our show years ago built around recordings and Abdi made during that difficult journey to America and today. To commemorate his new status as our fellow citizen. We thought we would Replay that story with some updates at the end. Is that as he began when he wants something called the diversity Visa Lottery the DV Lottery. If you never heard of this, it sounds like the kind of thing that can't be real but it's been around since the 90s. Remember the United States government every year the original idea of it was to get a more varied group of immigrants from A diversity of countries into our country. The Trump Administration is cut some of the eligible countries from the list, but the lottery is still operating. Over 14 million people applied for the 2020 Lottery with over 80,000 winners back in 2013.

2 (2m 51s):
Abdi found out he won in a cyber cafe in Kenya up. There was a smiley Refugee back then living in Kenya this next tape. I'm going to play you was from those days. So you'll hear of these American accent is not as good as it is. Now, he remembers the moment that he won this way. He sat down in his computer. I put my confirmation number I put my date of birth and then click To me there was a few seconds of Silence. Then you have been randomly selected. Everybody went nuts lifted him up in the air and his chair probably didn't believe it. He has his friends to put him down and started entering his information into the computer again.

2 (3m 35s):
And again, it's the same Hauser the simplest ones. I put in the same response. I realized that one I walked out with this friends. All you know shouting behind me in front of me, you know holding my hands shaking me. My heart was bumping. I was not holding myself together moving to America seemed a good done deal, but he didn't know the half of it winning. The lottery was especially big deal for update because really more than anybody he knew Dobby have been obsessed with America since he was little as a kid growing up in Mogadishu Somalia you go to the movies which in Mogadishu just Meant a TV perched on a table and a shack and it would bring a pen and paper to watch American films.

2 (4m 21s):
So we could write down any words. You didn't know or in the language better. It became known to people as the guy who could translate the movie for you stuff would happen on screen and everybody would turn to Abdi who chat out. He says he's about to kill that guy. He pronounces English like an American that's why his accent is so amazing when you hear him which led to his nickname that all his friends called him

1 (4m 41s):
up deed America. That's my name. That's my

2 (4m 44s):
Nickname and as he got older he devoted himself to the goal of getting to America not only studying English, but also teaching it he did some radio stories in English. You can totally understand why you'd want to leave his country, right? He grew up in Somalia for years. There was no functioning government. It was rival Warlords and militias and just Anarchy dangerous and violent. There were bombings and attacks from the terrorist group al-shabaab, which is affiliated with al-qaida obviousness for him or really for any man in his he's in Somalia. It's hard to stay out of the fight. You can just be neutral and go about your life. He tells stories about shabaab members threatening him to join them or else the one checkpoint on the way to his mom's they told him basically next time you come through here.

2 (5m 30s):
You better be one of us. So it was that or join the government forces who are fighting al-shabaab or we could flee the country. You know, there's boats full of people trying to cross the Mediterranean to get to Europe and sometimes they sink and hundreds of people drown. I've Dino's people who've gone on those boats and boats like them to escape to Yemen. Yes. I've lost three very good friends. And one of these friend has had his child less than your old with his wife he knew how to swim but he could not swim because his child was you know, he was trying to save his child and his wife and then they were caught up in the sea and

1 (6m 7s):
shocks. They were not the only ones who died there 75 out of somalis were killed in that journey and that has changed nothing

2 (6m 16s):
about our decision. That doesn't scare us a lot all we know that is there several times at the point to take one of those boats, but he had trouble getting the money together and eventually his mom talked him out of it. So instead he escaped across the border to Kenya Somalia and Kenya are next to each other at the move to Nairobi enrolled in the University tried twice for a student visa to America was denied both times if he hadn't gotten lucky that day in the cyber cafe. He said he would be looking again and getting on a boat. Yeah. If I had not won this green card Lottery that was one of my options. I was not afraid to do that.

2 (6m 57s):
I'm looking for alive. And to get to that I will keep trying to the test. The thing about the lottery though. What have you learned is that it does not guarantee your life in America. The fact is just the first step after you win. You have to wait more than a year. Then you show up in an American Embassy for an interview and you have to gather all kinds of paperwork to bring with you medical documents and school transcripts and a criminal background check. Everything has to be perfect. Every I dotted the tiniest mistake means that you can be denied for good. In fact most years over half the people who win the lottery never get their visas.

2 (7m 37s):
They don't make it to America. And right away after winning the lottery. I'll be got a bad break the police and I will be Kenya where he lived started rating houses looking to round up all the Smiley's like him and kicked him out of the country. We have a very unusual day by day record what happened to Abdi because a BBC reporter named Leo hornak wanted to document this process and started calling Abdi every night. This is one of the very first recordings. Hey up D. Can you hear me?

1 (8m 15s):
Yeah. Yeah, I can hear you.

2 (8m 17s):
They you safe right now for the moment. Yeah, actually

1 (8m 22s):
you send me an email that had me really worried today. Yeah, what happens

2 (8m 27s):
crazy? I was actually chatting with some of the people in our apartment when these guys we don't call them the beliefs we call them the guys out of nowhere. They appeared at the gate. And they asked us all to raise our hands up. and you know, we we were thinking like okay. This is the end of it. We're gonna go there tonight by there. It means a place called Casa Ronnie giant soccer stadium that Kenyan authorities and police were using as a makeshift jail to hold hundreds of refugees like, oh my gosh the next few couple of nights you're going to you're going to be spending their in the concentration come and then they take you to Mogadishu.

2 (9m 14s):
I'm OK you're going to miss your lottery all that things were going through my mind. It's got happened on April 17th. 2014. I'll behead 96 days to go. Where is interview at the u.s. Embassy which will be scheduled for July 22nd. We have started calling them every day. It was worried for him. Like I say over half the people who win this Lottery never make it to the United States would obviously see over the next three months. He faced a horrifying obstacle course, it's just like one. Seemingly impossible task after another at several points. He's afraid for his life and his story is the story of so many people around the world who are desperately trying to make it to America to become one of us.

2 (10m 8s):
Okay. So you remember where we are? Abdi is about to be taken into custody by the police. Here's Leo hornak. So here's why the police will rating up these

1 (10m 17s):
neighborhood in Nairobi

2 (10m 19s):
al-shabaab. The very group AB team moved to Kenya to escape have been ramping up terrorist attacks inside Kenya. You may remember one of the biggest ones the hostage crisis and the upscale Westgate Mall is ongoing the chaotic scene now a tense standoff ABC September 2013. Al-shabab gunmen trapped hundreds of people in a mall for days in killed 67 the way the Kenyan government responded to these terrorist attacks was the way government's often do in these situations the huge Crackdown on the community. They hold responsible al-shabaab's from Somalia. So they go off to Somali refugees living in Kenya

1 (10m 57s):
government's trying to clear them out of Kenya's cities and move them to camps in the country or the port them back to Somalia and in Nairobi the neighborhood they target is Abdi's neighborhood. It's called easly. It's a dense neighborhood where many poor somalis live and where there is some al-shabaab support. He's been there for decades. It's known as little Mogadishu Abdi lives there with his older brother Hassan in a small room with one bed and a single bathroom for the whole building. So back to that phone call on April 17th, the police show up and grabbed me by the shirt.

2 (11m 32s):
They just get your collar and holy it's okay with me till you come. Me just get into the track. That's what they sent all of us.

1 (11m 39s):
It's 96 days till abdi's

2 (11m 41s):
interview and abdi's worried. They're going to throw him and his brother into a truck and take them into detention before we can ever get his papers together and leave for America. They threatened you and they try to forcibly take you to the tracks. We we're not going with them. We were saying, okay, let's do a shit. I'm not going anywhere ever legitimate documents and they were telling us okay bring out all your documents. What do you have at the pulls out his Refugee ID? Officially that should protect empty. It's from the United Nations. Unofficially. He didn't even try to give you the single glance because he knows it the shape. He knows the frame of it and he says he threw it into my face and he says your Refugee. What are you doing here?

2 (12m 22s):
And they were like, I'm gonna give us whatever you have. That's what one of them said. So that's when the real business starts. Yeah, when the real business test aka the bribes Abdi his brother and the Neighbors start pooling their cash in total. I think we give them more than 80 80 US Dollars and I had to beg them, please. I have nothing this all I have. You know, I have nothing of nothing this all I have this you have to take it and how much does 80 US Dollars by you in eastleigh. It gives you the best fruit. It's pair of jeans pair of charts jacket or that stuff. It's a lot of money is indeed a lot of money and aptly what happens next.

2 (13m 4s):
I mean, there's there's no solution right to this this could happen again tomorrow not even tomorrow. It can happen it right. Now. It can happen tonight. You get it can happen in the next few minutes get having the next few hours

1 (13m 21s):
talking. Abdi every day what I realized was how Relentless is every night another excuse for a Crackdown and the somalis are sitting ducks trapped in this one neighborhood. Most people are indoors today. They're not going to anywhere. They're not coming out of their houses April 25th, 88 days to have these interview and Counting.

2 (13m 41s):
It's a Friday which normally would be a busy day in Italy because it's a

1 (13m 44s):
Muslim. Holy day people take off from work go shopping go out to eat and meet at the mosque for prayers but not today. This is last week. The police showed up at a nearby mosque grab people as they left prayers and drove them away in trucks. We're getting additional threats from the police saying that they will intensify the operation is and then they will take more people. So empty what you think you're going to do today. Will you visit a mosque? No, I will not I never missed a prayer on Friday at this one. But this one never missed, but you never know.

2 (14m 27s):
Soon Abdi stops leaving his apartment for anything. He and his brother has an essentially go into hiding lockdown in their building. I stopped going to school the days go by food begins to run short Abdul Hassan pool their supplies with another Somali family on the ground floor of their building two women one single mother with two small boys, but it's not much soon. They're down to just tea and sugar and a loaf of bread. They're able to get each day from a Kenyan guy who delivers it on his bike. That's what they were living on tea and bread.

1 (15m 1s):
Our eyes are turning red and the energy is running out. We're looking like pretty skinny.

2 (15m 7s):
Abdomen has Sana paying for the team bread with money. They get from overseas years ago. I did some reports for an American public radio show called the story and a listener reached out wanting to help she sends the money not too different from lots of Somali refugees who have family members abroad supporting them, but obviously that kind Of help only goes so

1 (15m 28s):
far. It's a challenging because you know, you can't even shut your eyes at night and sleep

2 (15m 34s):
soundly, this is up to his older brother Hassan. He tells me they aren't sleeping here in Abdi sound the same by the way, apparently even their father can't tell them apart on the phone. Any minute you expect something breaking into

1 (15m 46s):
your house grabbing you it's like sleeping with your pants on, you know, get it, you know, you are always ready. You don't know what that you know, wow. Feeling home. It's like you relax you watch movie you something like that never happens. If you hear another sound outside or some other knocking or you know a small, you know, kind of sound. What was it? What's happening at the company? We are not criminal just to our veggies and I never thought being real beachy. We will make you sound like criminal the kind of police abuse is aptly told me about a well documented by human rights groups and journalists arbitrary arrests.

1 (16m 27s):
Extortion beatings forcible deportation family members separated.

2 (16m 32s):
It's illegal under international law to send refugees back to a country

1 (16m 36s):
where their lives could be in danger the

2 (16m 38s):
spokesman for Kenya's Ministry of

1 (16m 40s):
interior, which oversaw the police raids in eastleigh told me they were Justified to make the city safe from al-shabaab, but he confirmed that the kind of police corruption. Abdi told me about has been a problem for a long time in Kenya that is a fact. He said we're not denying that. Afternoon Hassan tell me East has come up with the warning system

2 (17m 7s):
the first person to spot the police from his window fires a group text to his friends to say they're coming your way. So you've got time to hide then you pass the message on to your friends and so on you can tell a raid started her son says when you hear all the phone's going off. We just three months left till is interview. Abdi still needs to get all the documents required by the u.s. Embassy documents from the police is school his doctors, but it can't do any of that because he can't even leave his building. The clock's ticking. This is a long dream. My hopes were high to get this thing. But now

1 (17m 42s):
today I'm in trouble like, you know, right

2 (17m 47s):
it's not Americans who are who

1 (17m 48s):
are You know putting

2 (17m 51s):
my my Visa into trouble it's the Kenyans decaying police and I'm supposed to have my interview here in

1 (17m 58s):
July. My hat bro, you know. My feelings are very very bad. I'm feeling like okay. I'm not you're not going to

2 (18m 8s):
make it. April 28 T minus 85 days to his interview instead of hiding from the police people are now surrendering from his window AB disease entire families sitting on the sidewalk with their

1 (18m 22s):
belongings had raised our families are on the move back to mallya really to show themselves to the police and say alright, I'm done. I'm done. They don't have any more money to pay off the police and rather than end up at the football stadium that just go back to

2 (18m 38s):
Somalia. Even the family on the ground floor the two women with the young

1 (18m 43s):
boys a packing up which really probably heard of my brother and I because that means we're going to be alone here. Did you have any conversations with them about their plans what they're afraid of can you tell me about any conversation you had with any member of that family what they are telling me up do what I do in here. Come on move your dream about America that doesn't exist. This is a dream. Come on boy. You're wrong. That's what they're telling me Leo. Some point. I'm thinking like would it be okay to go with them? This is totally no life. I guess it can't be safe for to unaccompanied women with small children to be traveling by car from Nairobi to Somalia.

1 (19m 25s):
Can't be safe. Right? They're expecting everything. They're expecting an extortion of property. They are expecting a rape because there are gangs on the road that can rape women and the Gang snow that there's some Alexander. The move so there's somewhere on the road where there's no police inside so they can come and jump into passes rape women take their take their money and you know, the other thing that these families are fearing when they reach at the border between Kenya and Somalia another chapter of danger begins because it's al-shabaab that are lurking around the border and when you fall into the hands of al-shabaab you disappear forever.

1 (20m 10s):
The other thing that I was also discussing with them about this seven-year-old a five-year-old kids because these are the age that the al-shabaab they really want to program the kids and teach them, you know, whatever ideologies they believe and so yeah, the lady looked like she was so much worried for her kids don't for herself. Knowing this these two ladies and the case must go. Wow, it's really so you've got a lot of things to think about a lot of things to worry about

2 (20m 46s):
one night on the phone. Abdi ask me if I'm familiar with the migration of the wildebeest. Abdi wants to be clear. He doesn't know about this because he's African. He's a city kid. He's just seen it on Discovery Channel Clips like everyone else. Anyway, each year thousands and thousands of wildebeest Trek to a river that they have to cross in order to graze on the other side the rivers infested with crocodiles and not every wildebeest makes it but they all have to try Abdi says he knows how they feel somalis are prey. He says they're being hunted. Each evening. When I phoned Abdi I was always concerned that one night. No one would answer.

2 (21m 27s):
It would have finally taken the advice of his Neighbours or being hauled off to the holding pens in Casa Ronnie when he did pick up often he wanted to talk about things that weren't related to the Kenyan police or al-shabaab. We talked about his favorite movies Rambo that movie The Rock with Nicolas Cage anything Schwarzenegger, we talked about his friends in the good old days in eastleigh when you could sit in the Faye and sip tea with camel milk. One thing I asked Abdi about when people win the regular Lottery you always hear stories about how all of a sudden family members are really nice to them are cousins. They haven't spoken to in Years start calling to say hi asking for favors.

2 (22m 8s):
I wondered if this was the case with Abdi here. He was sitting in a slum with all these refugees who are in the same terrible situation, and now he had a ticket out to people start treating him differently.

1 (22m 20s):
Yes, Leo. So it's vitally the girls. This is a very good question.

2 (22m 25s):
Abdi is a practicing Muslim and so were the women he hangs out with so normally before you could only visit them in a kind of formal courtship visit at their home. No having girls over to his place now hanging out in public the difference now

1 (22m 39s):
since I won the Green Card Lottery is that they are trying to come to my house.

2 (22m 43s):
He's talking about before the police raid started when life was relatively normal in eastleigh

1 (22m 48s):
your so I just hear someone Up the stairs. I'm knocking at my door and saying hey, I'll be how have you been it's a lady and yeah, she sits right next to your bed and it's all about the conversation. She's trying to do anything to attract you with the sweet words. I do have a girlfriend. When do you want to marry? Which what kind what type of girls do you want now? You're going to America you need a wife you go to America, please. Let me be the first person that you getting tired because I'm here and I don't have a husband. I you thinking about any Of these girls, maybe, you know something could happen. Yes. I really am attracted to one of these girls.

1 (23m 31s):
She's really beautiful cute. She's Somali but she has finished high school in Nairobi. The good thing about her is that she speaks English? She is really I think my type she likes to read a lot. You know, she has a different character the rest of some algorithm very shy but this pretty girl. She gives me all this confidence, you know, and she allows me to go to her and she allows me to hang out. With her in downtown Nairobi wherever possible you know, so I'm yeah, I think I Fall In Love. Well, congratulations. That's one piece of good news.

1 (24m 12s):
Yeah, but unfortunately for the last four weeks we haven't seen each other.

2 (24m 29s):
My first 82 days and counting Abdi cautiously Ventures out of the apartment building for the first time in weeks. He heads downtown to Central Nairobi where life is continuing as normal. It's a stressful Journey, but he's able to buy a couple of gallons of clean water and some cans of beans to bring home. He says it's amazing how good these taste to him and Hassan he tells me he's getting more and more worried about the paperwork. He still has to get together for his interview his medical. It's and transcripts from his university and there's one piece of paper that terrifies

1 (25m 3s):
him. One of the u.s. Embassy requirements is to get a police certificate something called certificate of Good

2 (25m 11s):
Conduct what this basically is is proof from Kenyan law enforcement that Abdi isn't a criminal at the doesn't have a record. So this shouldn't be a big deal except for the place. He has to go to get the official certificate the headquarters of the Kenyan police. So that scares you allowed thousands of

1 (25m 28s):
Somalis are are being held as we speak and they're waiting for their return to Somalia or some of them are waiting for their return to the camps. So I'm thinking of jumping into a bus and headed to headquarter. He's stepping in there and saying hey guys, I need a please letter. My heart is already pounding four weeks after you've been talking to me about this telling me how worried he was about having to go into the belly of the Beast finally on a Tuesday Morning in May 77 days before Interview he gets up early gets together every ID he has to prove. He's illegal Refugee says goodbye to Hassan and takes a bus to Police Headquarters.

1 (26m 8s):
He walks in waits for his name to be called and walks up to the window when he faces a Kenyan police officer

2 (26m 15s):
and what he encounters is not brutal police

1 (26m 17s):
tactics, but bureaucracy. He was telling me there's nothing that I can do but take your Barber and send it to the unhcr and then I have to wait for them to come back to me even it can take more than five months. He tells me five months way

2 (26m 30s):
too long for Abdi to have it in time for his interview on July 22nd. The

1 (26m 34s):
guy there was not friendly he was really really Fierce and I was Frozen with fear. And finally I tell him wait just listen to me gentlemen, you talking about five months as sir, but that's not what I'm talking about. If I don't get this police certificate and they will not give me or fish. Ooh a Visa for me. All right, so please see possible and he was telling me there's nothing that I For you, it's going to take more than five months. There's no possibility of you going into a later position with the us embassy's there. No, it doesn't happen. If you delay your interviewed as the end of it some other people will grab the Visa. Yeah, that's going to be our Doom.

1 (27m 14s):
It's gonna be a doom. Abdi says and I felt that too up to this point. It seemed like if Abdi could just hold on long enough to get to his Embassy interview. He'd make it to America now all bets were off now. Now unless this changed there was no way.

2 (27m 36s):
We have or not. I decided to keep going back to Police Headquarters every few weeks despite the risk despite how frightening it is to see if one time maybe gets a different answer what happens next in a minute from Chicago public radio when I program continues. Support for This American Life comes from Square. You probably know Square they make that little white credit card reader that lets anyone take payments but running and growing a business takes more than payments. So square has more tools to help like point of sale for all kinds of businesses e-commerce tools that help you sell online and full-service payroll that takes care of your taxes to and it's all designed to be quick to set up and easy to use see all the ways Square can take your business from where one to whatever is next at Square.com go / American Support for This American Life comes from Capital One Capital One has a fresh take on banking.

2 (28m 37s):
Now. You can open a new savings account in about five minutes and earn five times the national average banking with Capital One means 5 times the savings toward your dream honeymoon or five times the savings toward your family's ultimate vacation, even five times the savings toward just feeling good about saving whichever it is. It's time to make your savings goals come true. This is banking reimagined. What's in your wallet Capital One na member FDIC? This American Life from Ira Glass today on our program where we playing the story of abdeen or just three weeks after the ceremony where he finally became a US citizen obviously Smiley Refugee who escaped Kenya and anyone what amounts to a golden ticket to move the United States become an American but only if he's able to make it to an interview at the u.s.

2 (29m 27s):
Embassy with all the right paperwork all done perfectly so we can cash in that golden ticket. The United Nations is reported. The number of people around the world displaced from their homes because of Fuck the persecution is at an all-time high. It's over 70 million people. The largest number the UN has ever recorded Abdi of course is one of those people he's Muslim from a country with a proven history of terrorism. The story all happened back in 2013. But today under President Trump's travel ban a Somali like Abdi would not be allowed a visa to emigrating to the United States. Anyway, we are Hornet continues our story. May 12 T minus 71 days to abdi's Embassy interview after gets on a bus home from school and this time runs into another danger not the police not al-shabaab themselves, but the fear of

1 (30m 14s):
al-shabaab the buzz is so crowded with people and there are

2 (30m 19s):
these two ladies watching me Abdi looks around and realizes he's the only Somali people can tell somalis look different and the Somali with a backpack on on a public bus. What people are thinking they're watching my hands. They're thinking

1 (30m 34s):
like when is this guy putting his hand into that bag and start to blow up? This lady's then started killed another driver. Have you met sure there's no bomb in that bag. I had to fight back my say listen lady. Wait a minute. I'm not who you think. I am, you know? No, there's no bum here. I'm not one of those people I'm stealing them from carrying. My books. It's quite embarrassing and at same time I feel fear because if we went in there had very cautious eyes on me.

1 (31m 20s):
And Kenya because people don't trust the police mobs will take justice into their own hands. For example, if a shopkeeper yells thief on the street strangers might grab the

2 (31m 29s):
person and beat them and it's not unheard of for people to die this way a man in the back of the bus chimes in why is he there? He shouts kick him

1 (31m 38s):
out. I tried as my just I can't calm them down and they were ignoring me. And then the driver turns his head and tells me boy step out of my car. All right, call the police.

2 (31m 54s):
And you know, we weren't elected Mogadishu. We wearing it in downtown. We were in the middle and in the middle what I mean in the middle

1 (32m 2s):
is exactly the Bengali police station.

2 (32m 5s):
This is the police station Somali terrorist bomb two weeks earlier. What do you think if they kick me out there with a bag standing there near the police station what's going to happen? They can shoot

1 (32m 13s):
me to death. I said to the driver wait a minute. You want to know what's in here and then I had to unzip my bag and bring everything out the books. The papers showed him the pain the ID student ID everything I brought up and then I hang the bag upside down and showed him you see anything in there and then it looked like the driver was kind of satisfy. You looked straight and he drove the car a little bit faster four days later May 1660. And days to the interview al-shabaab blows up two

2 (32m 48s):
buses. It's a big deal. They were in a Central Market at least 12 dead more than 70

1 (32m 54s):
inches Abdi. Sure. The police will be out in force and he hunkers down a home for a while.

2 (33m 15s):
Hey AB D. What's up? How's it going?

1 (33m 17s):
Leo is good. How are you?

2 (33m 19s):
Yeah, not too bad at all. Could you tell me the date and we can start? Yeah,

1 (33m 25s):
it's May 17 2014 and last night after that explosion. There was a massive operation little more tissue. They've knocked at our house. It was like two last night. We haven't open they just kept talking and they were thinking like there's nobody here and then they have

2 (33m 40s):
moved so we're hang on so they kind of if they just don't get any answer then they

1 (33m 45s):
They think it's empty. Yes. The thing is that this is not like before now. There are no more people at all 80% of gone. That's what I think. I just like if the person before now it's 80% most buildings are empty.

2 (33m 59s):
So these days when they keep knocking and nobody's opening

1 (34m 2s):
day thinking like people here have moved. So yes, that's what we did last night. We just none of us open that

2 (34m 9s):
was no light in our house because

1 (34m 11s):
these guys they're listening to the movements. They're watching if there's any movement on the Windows they Seeing if there's a lie

2 (34m 18s):
or something. Just something like that shows them. There's a live here. So that's what we do. We don't show

1 (34m 23s):
there's a life. It's totally black out. Good evening, Leo. Hey, Abby, how are you? I'm good. I'm good. How are you?

2 (34m 36s):
Good. I'm pleased to hear it. I know that you have it tough. Very difficult evening. Do you want to say what the date is and tell me what happened

1 (34m 46s):
May 19 now the time is 8:45. All I can say Leo is that I haven't slept for the last I can say 30 hours or more. Because the police rate has increased. they've kept their come on taken so many people from our neighborhood and we have realized that these this is not the ordinary police. They've changed something these guys don't negotiate on cash Everything Has Changed. They're not going into any negotiation at all. They throw you in the back of the trucks and drive away so many so many refugees and how you lining this out.

1 (35m 30s):
How you how do you know this? But I told you already about that girl. She's my fiancee. She's my girlfriend now, but she hasn't a Canyon National ID

2 (35m 43s):
the text message. She sent me

1 (35m 46s):
here. It says hey they have been with me for like 15 minutes. She was just sleeping our room and one of them said you are not supposed to be as a male or a Kenyan so you can be my wife. That's one of the policemen what one of the policeman said when she showed them how to carry a national ID. I'm taking all the somalis, so you'll be lonely here. Just come and you will be safe you live with me, and she said please leave me alone. They took everyone else in the compound where she lived who had a few JT delivered without girls and the other girls have don't have the national ID.

1 (36m 26s):
So they forced the girls up. They have finally forced girls us.

2 (36m 31s):
I tried to confirm this with his girlfriend, but she didn't want to talk to me about it after he says the police took her roommates that night but left her behind. So what she's Alone Now, what's the

1 (36m 41s):
situation? She is a lot of years. So Leo. Yes that last night has on an i we didn't know where to go. We could hear all those sounds the novel fargate. They shout the bullets that were being fired into the daughters of people at what moment I will thinking like go under your bed and then a moment I was thinking like they find you here. They're gonna kill you. I was like, this is I don't know. I've never been such a stressful situation.

2 (37m 7s):
So if you were to look outside the building right now, what would you see

1 (37m 12s):
Leo to be honest. I know I'll see you too. I know it's dangerous. But what just if I could help me imagine. Leo to be honest if I just look through my window there's nothing that I can see I'm telling you there's nothing that I can see it all the lights are off even there's no street light here now, it's totally totally dark. There's only this light from coming from the laptop you have to build lots of things on the on the window so that they cannot even see that's what I'm doing right now so that they cannot even see the light from my laptop. But Leo, I don't know. I don't know why they come midnight. Why is that because they don't want us to go sleep.

1 (37m 53s):
Why do they come during the day? The issue will come the same time 2:30, 2:30, you know, and that's exactly when Somali women and children are all asleep. And then these guys are coming. They keep the door open telling you wake up to this wake up. Why you sleeping? Uh-huh. They're coming back every night. What the hell's going on? But why don't they at least if they're doing an operation? Why don't they come at one time and finish the whole the whole things, you know, they're killing us. They are killing us by fearing

2 (38m 25s):
in this situation. It must be easy for our shabab to get supporters. I guess people who have some maybe a Little Bit of Sympathy with their ideas.

1 (38m 35s):
Did you read or did you hear about the young man who were deported from Kenya and Somalia have already joined al-shabab? No, I didn't see that. They're coming from the border already attacking King as a Revenge because the Kenyans have really mistreated so many women and children and so many young men King is really giving a very good opportunity to this al-shabaab guys because they're getting what they want and they're getting the young man that they were looking for. Yeah.

2 (39m 4s):
Well, I wish I could say more but I think there's nothing more I can say right now.

1 (39m 8s):
Oh, no. All I need is some sleep. I don't know if you can read that. But yeah, I can I can hear you feel very stressed. Have you get some sleep and keep safe as well as safe as you can with your good luck. I mean India would like to do.

2 (39m 25s):
Days, go by abdomen has some do their best to keep their spirits up and entertain themselves. They read books. They watch Lost and walking dead. It's one of the weird quirks of eastleigh that even if food runs short, you can still have good broadband internet Even build makeshift barbells out of old milk cans. They filled with sand and stones and start working out.

1 (39m 50s):
What Three

2 (39m 54s):
and they do what about these favorite

1 (39m 56s):
things. You want me to go and get yes. Okay. Listen to

2 (40m 1s):
music. Back in Somalia if al-shabaab caught you with MP3s on your phone. They would flog you or they could even kill you for it. They believe most music is sinful. But Abdi always took a risk. He kept his music collection on a secret SIM card hidden under the

1 (40m 24s):
mattress. This song called Careless. Whisper gives me some good memories because in Mahlia, we really had very few western songs. And there was one time that they got this song and made it into

2 (40m 41s):
Somali. They translate it. Oh, yeah. Yeah,

1 (40m 44s):
the I love to play you

2 (40m 47s):
that I don't know if you

1 (40m 48s):
let me think where we can get it. Yeah be very honest I have So many songs on my phone but most of them are very very old. I really enjoy because I remember my father and the Beautiful days in Somalia. He used to play these songs because it he had this big radio. I'm talking about the 90s with I was a pretty young guy and my father used to sit like this is leaning against the wall. His big radio is right next to him and next to him is a flask full of hot tea with his cat and the cat is a small leaves that somalis it.

1 (41m 33s):
Sigh stimulant and next to him is also a bowl full of milk. Oh my God, my father when he has all that stuff. He's in heaven. He's smiling. He gets his finger on the tape and he makes us quite easy. Shut up. I just

2 (41m 49s):
enjoy during all this empty did leave the house sometimes but only for a very specific reason I did go to an important class. He couldn't miss or to go to the police headquarters and try his luck again getting the certificate he needs for his interview then on May 29th with 54 days and counting. Abdi sends me this recording. Hi. This is ugly.

1 (42m 22s):
I have a great news to declare. So let me just absolutely get it. Oh my God. I'm really different today. My please clearance is done. Let me say that again. My please clearance is done. I'm looking at my hand fingers. They're all black because I'm still wearing the black ink for the fingerprints. And I'm not sorry about it. I smell the US Visa. I smell it. I smell it. I see July 22 coming.

1 (43m 3s):
This was the only problem I dealt with it. It's done. At this point abdi's a shoo-in. It's almost hard to believe after all the obstacles but he calls up the embassy talk through all the paperwork and they tell him

2 (43m 16s):
he's good to go and

1 (43m 17s):
I'll see him on the 22nd

2 (43m 19s):
and is tuned on our nightly phone

1 (43m 21s):
calls totally changes from this I have to bro. I'm feeling like okay. I'm not you're not going to make it to

2 (43m 28s):
this. Now. I'm in love with the American culture.

1 (43m 33s):
I'm in love with their beautiful roads and streets, you know houses. Wow in love with everything everything in the United States that's going on. Do you sometimes worry that maybe you're so in love with this place that it might disappoint you when you reach there many people reach America have a very tough time. No, I don't worry about that because I know whatever I have been through they've never been through. I've been a refugee. I've been hiding from police. I've been hiding from shabaab. I've been hiding for so many armed groups. I have had enough trouble.

1 (44m 14s):
I have had enough disappointment. Americans an opportunity, so I'll take my chances

2 (44m 23s):
and America is an opportunity not just for

1 (44m 25s):
Abdi but it's whole family. My mother is in Somalia. She's in Mogadishu that most dangerous city in the world. And so every call that's coming from Mogadishu. I pick up really with shaky hands

2 (44m 40s):
after he hasn't seen his mother in more than three years. She lives in a tiny rundown Shack made of corrugated tin, and she doesn't always have Access to enough food or clean water if Abdi gets to America. He hopes he can make some money and even if he can't protect her from violence, he can at least help her to get a better place with clean water and three meals a

1 (45m 0s):
day as looking my mother yesterday evening. She asked boy. When are you going out of that country? And I said Mom. I got 52 days 52 days. I need to prayers and she said oh my God is good. 52 days. I'm praying for you boy. And I know like I am right now she's counting the days. It's going to be something like that will make her proud. They'll do make our survive. She's really sending all her prayers towards me.

1 (45m 44s):
After his older brother Hassan is also applied for the Visa Lottery

2 (45m 48s):
like Abdi he's worked for years on his English. He came to Kenya years before Abdi now. He's getting ready to live alone. Again. Hassan is the part of you that thinks, you know, just a little part of you that is a bit

1 (46m 1s):
jealous about

2 (46m 3s):
Abdi. Cuz you both worked hard and Abdi has got this not through hard work, but by luck. Actually, if I tell you I don't have the list challenge a row if we get two of us visit to get out here it will even be paired. But if someone told me right now there is one fiza, which one of you will take out set up because he's new to this country. And I know how we are so fearful at night, and I know how you can't sleep at night. For him to get Visa is my biggest pleasure.

2 (46m 47s):
Yeah, there's luck there, but let

1 (46m 51s):
can be fair.

2 (46m 58s):
June 4th 48 days

1 (47m 0s):
and counting

2 (47m 2s):
after goes into the stairwell to use the bathroom and finds a police officer

1 (47m 5s):
standing there who calls for backup the officer doesn't ask for a bribe to let somebody go. Abby has no idea. Why do you Nate 44 days to go Abdi tells me apparently the police have started raiding during the day, which is a change he avoided them because he was at class June 15th, 37 days to go. After his on the radio that doesn't have masked al-shabaab gunmen bombed the police station stole its weapons and went on a rampage in a town on the coast killing at least 48 people Abdi and Hassan brace for more police

2 (47m 42s):
raids. July 7th 15 days to go

1 (47m 47s):
Leo, I'm telling you they have chased me with machetes with his taunts empty you kidding wanted to yeah. It was only two hours ago

2 (47m 56s):
when aptean I speak he's shaken up. He says he just tried to visit the mosque for the first time in weeks. It's right down the block. It

1 (48m 3s):
was like only 10 steps away from my house. And then there's this like 50 armed young man. They were armed with machetes on with rocks in there. And they started chasing me and throwing those two stones and then I started running towards the mosque. The mop was a bunch of Kenyans attacking somalis at random on the streets. Yeah, they caught up with other they were beating these guys and I couldn't look back. I threw myself I threw myself into the mask and then somebody close the gate and the shark clerk. He was like, please calm down if these people want to kill us, I think we will go we will all go to heaven because Allah says if we die in The mosque that's it.

1 (48m 44s):
We're going straight to the heaven.

2 (48m 47s):
We did you expect to die.

1 (48m 49s):
I did July 17th five days to go the woman sending him money from

2 (48m 56s):
America wires cash for his interview

1 (48m 58s):
fee $320 and then finally July 21st one day to go. It's actually in a daze. It's now hours left to my interviewer

2 (49m 11s):
10 hours and 53 minutes to be precise. It's at 7:30 tomorrow morning.

1 (49m 16s):
I'm not going to bed anymore. I'm not going to sleep. I'm sure by that. Tomorrow is going to change my life. It's going to change my life to be the happiest person on Earth is going to change my life to be the the most devastated man on Earth. So it's these two tomorrow night. I'm coming back to this room. Breaking everything's smashing everything right here because I'm happy or am I angry? In both situations, I'll break these things. I know I will just give a bunch into my laptop. I have to say I'm dirty. I'm really excited for you.

1 (49m 56s):
I'm just wishing you good luck, you know with all my heart. I'm Gonna Leave You and let

2 (50m 2s):
you prepare and can't wait to speak

1 (50m 4s):
tomorrow. I wish I will talk to you smiling not really had that

2 (50m 8s):
guys that you will be smiling. That's where I

1 (50m 10s):
expect. Thank you. Thank you very much. Okay, so

2 (50m 20s):
While I was brushing my teeth this morning. I got a text message and it was from Abdi. Hi, very bad news. They gave me a red paper that said Visa rejected. and yeah, we we text messages backwards and forwards and he the last message he sent to me which was few hours ago was this is my worst day on

1 (51m 0s):
Earth. I couldn't get hold of Abdi for a day. When I finally did talk to him. He walked me through what happened after I arrived hours early. The waiting room was filled with other lottery winners one by one they were called in and one by one. They have D says they came out grinning. Then Abdus number was called. This was it window nine and there is this American lady. She was black American to be honest. I was really happy because somebody already told me that the ladies are good then the man so if Lady interviews you you get the visa, so I was thinking like, alright man you could you got it.

1 (51m 51s):
So the first thing she said was please. Can you raise your right hand and swear that everything that you will say is the truth?

2 (52m 1s):
Had he did he answered a few simple

1 (52m 3s):
questions. And then she was she was busy writing something on her computer. I could feel that my legs were shivering. Hmm. So This Is The Moment Men. This is the moment that you have been waiting for and then she said so tell me where did you go to high school? And I said audition Somalia,

2 (52m 22s):
where'd you go to college? He asked he told her his university in Nairobi, but she

1 (52m 26s):
said the truth cook to that you have here that's not have a signature.

2 (52m 31s):
Did you know that one of his school transcripts didn't have a signature she took out a pink piece of paper and on the bottom wrote two words missing transcript. She handed it to Abdi and said sorry I can't give you the Visa.

1 (52m 46s):
I was looking into her eyes light. Please come back to me and say hey, I've changed my mind, please please God. I need your help. I need any luck today.

2 (52m 56s):
But the lady didn't change her mind she picked up her microphone and called the next number

1 (53m 7s):
dazed Abdi walked outside and sat alone under a tree outside. The embassy was they needed to calm myself on bring myself together. I saw there. I was holding my head and I was looking at this whole world as they as the worst place to live I told myself. Hey, are you reject it? Is this real or am I dreaming? I thought it was like a dream. No, we can't do this. And to this the embassy told him he could send them assigned transcript if he wanted but they told him not to come back to the Embassy.

1 (53m 52s):
They'd be in touch. Maybe AB descent the transcript even though he was sure he'd missed his chance. hello, this is Upton or Is the first of August

2 (54m 16s):
2014 and

1 (54m 19s):
email? Got into my inbox. It was immigrant Visa department at the US

2 (54m 26s):
Embassy and it tells me is from our

1 (54m 29s):
records your document has been received and your Visa will be sent by tomorrow. Oh my God, this email made me jump off from my bed and hit my head onto the onto the ceiling. It's issue God. I just looked at it again. It's issued. The hell's gonna to shoot this big smile was on my face. I've never had such a big smile never ever ever ever.

1 (55m 22s):
Hey you Abdi.

2 (55m 27s):
Oh my God. Are you recording this first please before you say don't say anything first. Please be recording I'm recording. Yeah. Okay, great. How does it feel to be the owner of a

1 (55m 43s):
US Visa?

2 (55m 48s):
What was the question again? Sorry a different planet. Oh, yeah. What does it feel like to be a green card holder? It feels like the dream has just become real.

1 (56m 6s):
I don't know what saving it feels

2 (56m 7s):
like I am not a refugee. No, this is not a refugee that was hiding from Feliz. This is it.

1 (56m 26s):
There was one thing about the approval of abdi's Visa that made us wonder

2 (56m 31s):
the day after his Visa was issued before you heard the news. I'd actually called the US Embassy in Nairobi. I said I was a reporter doing a story about Abdi and that was curious about how long their decision would take because of my deadline. The woman I spoke to said she didn't know. For nine days. Abdi hadn't heard anything two hours after my call. He got the good news. We asked the state department if my phone call influence their decision about abdi's Visa and they told us quote the journalists call played no role in the timing of the Visa issuance any Visa process coinciding with a pressing Quarry is merely a coincidence.

2 (57m 11s):
I can't prove anything but that is at odds with what the woman on the phone told me back when I initially called the embassy. She said that Now that they knew I was doing a story about Abdi they'll try and expedite the process even though I told her that wasn't why I was calling and that I was only asking for information. We spoke with eight immigration lawyers all experience with the diversity Visa Lottery and they all said my call probably bump tabbed his application to the top of the pile that day. And with the lottery because they give out a finite number of visas by a hard deadline that can be the difference between making it the

1 (57m 46s):
us or not.

2 (57m 58s):
Leo hornak, he's now at the times of London. Where is the executive producer of the papers new Daily News podcast called stories of our times the show launches next month on August 11th. 2014 Hassan took object to Nairobi report and I'll be flew to America live in a small town in Maine. The woman have been supporting Abdi put him up with her family. He looked for work for a while finally found a job. Job, installing installation lived in an apartment with three other Smiley guys mattresses on the floor. He wrote a book about his life. Call me American And then three weeks ago.

1 (58m 32s):
It's all the candidates would remain standing worst. And if you can't raise your right hand

2 (58m 37s):
add the in 45 others in a sunshine filled room and Main raise the right hands. I'll be at tears in his eyes

1 (58m 44s):
and repeat after me. I hereby declare I hereby declare on oath on oath that I absolutely and entirely that I absolutely and entirely renounce and abjure renounce and abjure all Allegiance and fidelity. Ella T. All Allegiance and Fidelity to any foreign Prince 20 foreign Prince potentate potentate state or sovereignty. Okay jumping ahead here that I will support and defend that I will support and defend the Constitution of the United States Constitution of the United States against all enemies again, it's all enemies foreign and domestic foreign and domestic

2 (59m 22s):
jumping ahead again not takes less than two minutes.

1 (59m 25s):
So help me God so help me God. Congratulations. You're all United States

2 (59m 29s):
citizens. That'd be for marching Senator Angus

1 (59m 35s):
King immigrants. Descendants of immigrants fire things

2 (59m 46s):
up the weeds everybody in the pledge of allegiance

1 (59m 48s):
to the Republic for which it stands

2 (59m 51s):
and afterwards I get a chance to talk to him.

1 (59m 53s):
I think every every second today was was very very moving and I feel the transformation happening. I feel the change happening.

2 (1h 0m 4s):
It's interesting. You actually do feel different now, I feel different.

1 (1h 0m 8s):
Yes it really I feel different. I mean

2 (1h 0m 11s):
I don't I'm not that that Abdi from yesterday I can feel that I can sense that, you know is the differences that you feel safe

1 (1h 0m 24s):
the difference is that I feel safe, but I also feel

2 (1h 0m 27s):
empowered Empower able to vote able to do anything any citizen can do able to bring his mother over from Somalia. He's no longer worried that he'd be banned coming in and out of the country. Why the Trump Administration will start to deport green card holders like him somehow finally. He said his childhood nickname Abdi. The American is matched by his nationality feels good. Who was I all these years? You know, my life had been based

1 (1h 0m 53s):
on fighting for survival and getting out of the war and being threatened under you know, it felt like I didn't have any

2 (1h 1m 4s):
rights at all as a displaced person as a refugee. Even as a green card

1 (1h 1m 11s):
holder or a resident in the United States, but now I feel like it's like restarting. You know, when you play video games, it's something happens and you have the character was killed. You just have the power to go back and redo everything

2 (1h 1m 30s):
one of the things I was so curious to ask Abdi about was he had idolized America so much before he got here in Kenya. He used to say he loved America. So what was it like for him to actually live here. It seemed like no place could possibly live up to the way he felt about the United States and he said yeah for all the safety and opportunity and freedom to speak and protest that he appreciates here. There were things about America that he was not prepared for his first job here installing installation guys on the crew stole his hard hat and his tools and his winter coat treated him like an outsider and in a bigger way the America that he liked seeing on television when he was Yup, an idealistic United America.

2 (1h 2m 12s):
That's what he had expected to find but that America is not on the TV anymore. It's such a scary place. So divide it more like the Somali tribes, you know, it's some things that have been here really reminded me. What what they started the Somali Civil War how people were were not happy with each other. You know how we hated each other's tribe and you know power and all that and then the word that I started in 1991 it 30 years old now, so I can't I can't watch America go that path. You know, I can't

1 (1h 2m 46s):
so the only thing that I can do

2 (1h 2m 47s):
is sort of not see the news to not break my heart. So America is such a confusing place things are going well for him though. You got certification as an interpreter. That's his job nowadays his brother asanas many to Toronto with his wife and kids and I bet he's attending college part-time setting politics. It doesn't just Use his right to vote now that he's a citizen. He wants to run for office

1 (1h 3m 12s):
someday.

2 (1h 3m 25s):
I was a kid I was in her life was a beach but man I wanna meet well Greg Myers piece today by Brian Reed was so each a song called Stephanie who kinda jumpy wild monkey meet Jonathan menjivar Robinson. I mean it was ship Julie Snyder and Nancy Opdyke editing help for today's show from Joe vaux production help from nor Gil Katherine. Raimondo. Still Nelson in that. Tyranny. Thanks to BBC Radio current affairs. Hugh Levinson and Bridget Harney BBC's Crossing continents radio show where version of Leo story first aired a special thanks to a stir sung at the national immigration law Center. Also to PR is the world Julio was a producer our website This American Life dot-org This American Life is delivered a public radio stations by PRX the public radio exchange support for This American Life comes from indeed with its skill test built for employers want to see a deeper sense of the person behind the resume or in Mar at indeed.com.

2 (1h 4m 20s):
/ higher, thanks as always to our programs co-founder. Mr. Tareme, al-attiyah, you know, just give me a ride home last night and I reached out to the radio which of course was playing our station. And before I could even touch the tuner Toria is so hardcore public radio. He screeches the car over to the curb and tells me boy

1 (1h 4m 37s):
step out of my car. All right call the police.

2 (1h 4m 40s):
I'm Ira Glass back next week with more stories of this american guy. Nice life is a breeze. Next week on the podcast of this American life growing up black in Russia. Elena always dreamed about who she might marry if she came to America one day that dumb feel be tall and black who song was

1 (1h 5m 22s):
that? I want to hear your Prince Will Come and then one day she visited

2 (1h 5m 28s):
America that's next week on the podcast on your local public radio station.