2 (1s):
Support for This American Life comes from Squarespace make your website your own with the ability to customize the look and feel settings products and more for a free trial of your new website. Visit. Squarespace.com / American and enter American Squarespace. Think it dream it make it. Support for This American Life comes from Dino the Capital One assistant that catches things that might look wrong with your credit card sends an alert to your phone and helps you fix them. Another way Capital One is watching out for your money when you're not what's in your wallet see capitalone.com for details.

2 (41s):
WBZ Chicago, it's This American Life AmeriGas. All right, you're turning a laptop so deep level up so we can both watch this. That's my coworker Emmanuel Larry sending up to show me a clip from an old film on her computer. This is something that she's showing lots of people since she first sod. It's an old Soviet movie from 1936. Okay. So this is film called the circus. It's kind of like the Russian version of It's a Wonderful Life. It's like that classic black-and-white movie that comes on TV. See all the time. It's like heartwarming that everybody knows but then when I saw what was happening, I was like what is happening? Yeah. I'm going to hit play. Okay.

2 (1m 23s):
So there's this beautiful blonde woman. She's singing like in the center of the circus tent. She's an American who has come to Russia to perform and then this man just start screaming stop the show stopped the show. So let me explain who he is. He's German to be honest. He looks a little like Hitler the mustache whatever. Oh and it's 1936. So Hitler's On The Rise. Yes, and he's in love with this American circus star, but she's rejected him and so to get Revenge he is going to reveal her secret to the world the secret that she's been keeping like throughout the entire film and then he brings out this black baby.

1 (2m 10s):
Then their babies like a toddler

2 (2m 12s):
size. Yeah, maybe maybe two and then the German he runs up the stairs and he like holds the baby up almost like Simba and and he starts shaking the baby and screaming she slept with a negro child. She gave birth to a black child you reading subtitles. Now. He's shaking this child over and over again. He's like a black child a black child. And then this guy comes up to him this this Russian guy in the audience and he's like, what's the problem and the jury cases is a black child a white woman gave birth to a black child.

2 (2m 53s):
Well, the Russian guy just literally Shrugged his shoulders. Yeah. He Shrugged his shoulders and he says so

1 (2m 58s):
what

2 (3m 0s):
and the German guy goes off on the speech and puts the baby down and and the toddler he just sort of walks off and people in the audience the Sweep the baby up in their arms to protect the baby from this guy. Yeah, and so they're passing this black kid around all of these white russian folks and they're laughing at the guy. Yeah. He's like, why are you laughing? Why is this funny? Remember, it's 1936 in the US were more than 30 years before interracial. Marriage is legal everywhere. I mean, it's Jim Crow black people are still being lynched and like to see this scene where this guy is being told by all these white people mind you like you're crazy.

2 (3m 42s):
This is no big deal. Like what is happening here? And as I started to do more research, I learned that this was part of Soviet propaganda for decades this message America's racist. We are not in the 1920s and 1930s African Americans. They actually moved to the Soviet Union because it was promising a better life like the boy in the film that black baby is actually the son of an African American who moved to the Soviet Union in the 1930s. Wow, and I haven't gotten to the last bit of scene which is actually my favorite part of the whole thing. So this like Russian woman is like cradling the baby rocking it back and fourth and then she starts singing to him.

2 (4m 28s):
Mr. Dreams stepping soft maketh he no

1 (4m 32s):
noise. Yeah, so she's totally putting this

2 (4m 37s):
baby together putting the baby to sleep. Yeah, and then she passes a baby to like this next person and it just becomes this thing where they're embracing this child one from the next like rocking it back and forth and singing to it. The other thing that's happening in this scene is that they're all singing in different languages like the Soviet Union at this time. There are all these different ethnic groups and then they are all embracing this black, baby.

2 (5m 19s):
What I'm watching this black baby being embraced like I wondered like was it true like would black people really be Embrace like that and for the like the in the Soviet Union and the Soviet Union and for the African Americans who went over there and left to like Escape races and like did they somehow actually escaped racism because like that's a question that I think about a lot like Ken I go somewhere in the world. And Escape racism. Yeah, I had a year or two where I really thought about this a lot. I was working as a journalist and Ferguson covering months of protests and a community really like I was covering a community that was in crisis after the shooting death of Michael Brown and I had just had this experience where I felt like, I just seen some of the worst parts of American racism from watching people threaten other people because of the color of their skin she just looking day after day at The social inequalities that exist in St.

2 (6m 17s):
Louis and the structural things like redlining and it like was kind of hopeless. All right. I felt kind of hopeless about it at least at the time and I was a little bit like I think I just have to leave here. Like I used to almost like play this game as like a coping mechanism where I would think about like, where in the world. Can I go like I would talk to my friends about Ghana or like Central America places in the Caribbean. I'm like, do you think it's better? Either they're like, could it be like would it be better there to be a black person there? It's just seeing this film made you wonder about Russia and did it work out for the black Americans who move their I don't necessarily like think that Russia is a better place to live as a black person, but for those people who did move there in the 1930s and their kids and their grandkids like what role did race end up playing in their lives?

2 (7m 7s):
Like how did it work out for them? That's actually the thing that we're going to be talking about in general in

1 (7m 13s):
today's program. We have stories of

2 (7m 14s):
Who decide I'm going to go

1 (7m 16s):
somewhere. I'm going to move there. I'm going to try to fit in

2 (7m 19s):
and we see what happens and for like one and Ike we are calling black in the USSR. That's cheesy. You came up with that name. No, but I was joking. It's good. Anyway for that

1 (7m 31s):
activated, you'll you look for

2 (7m 32s):
descendants of those African American

1 (7m 33s):
expats in Russia and just explain who you

2 (7m 37s):
found. Okay? So the one that I found her name is Elena hunga and she wrote this book called sold. Her soul. She's a black Russian born and raised there and I don't know I sort of felt like a connection to her the more I read about her because she's a college athlete like I was she's a journalist. Like I am her grandfather is from the same county in Mississippi that my grandmother is from Wow, and I don't know I sort of just felt connected in a way. How did you find me like originally? Yeah your book. Oh you read the book. I read the book. Yeah, because I'm so like I said you lean has a She had a successful talk show in Moscow.

2 (8m 17s):
They call her the Russian Oprah, which is almost definitely because she's black and had a talk show. It was her grandparents who moved to Russia back in the 1930s. They had a leftist New York version of a rom-com meet-cute her grandmother. Bertha was a polish. Jew who'd been arrested at a woman's rights demonstration. Her grandfather. Oliver golden was black and had been arrested down the street at a human rights demonstration, and they met Get the jail. And in the morning the Rob I came to bail my grandmother's out and my grandmother said oh wonderful. Could you please Bill me out together with my new friend Oliver golden the rabbi her father saw the Oliver was black and her father looked at her as I said, well you staying in jail with your

1 (9m 6s):
new friend and left them there

2 (9m 9s):
and that's how their love story began. So weird weird Matchmaker. It but it worked. The couple didn't see a future for themselves in America. So they decided to go to the Soviet Union Oliver had visited before and they wanted to help build Lenin's great new Society one that promised no racism Oliver and Bertha settled in Uzbekistan.

1 (9m 36s):
My grandfather thought there would be some kind of a kinship between African-Americans and dark-skinned use Bic people. That's why he chose to go there and

2 (9m 48s):
he worked

1 (9m 49s):
As an expert in

2 (9m 51s):
Cotton. Yes, her grandfather left the American South and traveled Halfway Around the World to work in Cotton. He developed a new breed of kind that would work for his Becca stands short growing season and life was good. They made good money had a nice apartment a nanny for when their daughter Lilly was born in 1934 Oliver wanted her to have everything. He thought white kids got in the United States, so Lily had language. Aged Hooters music in tennis lessons, but their life's got harder after they became full Soviet citizens and lost their Foreigner status and after Stalin began to solidify his power.

2 (10m 31s):
They started to live like everybody else Oliver died in 1940 Lily grew up and went to college in Moscow. She married a politician from Zanzibar. Jelena's dad. He died shortly after he Elena's birth. So the only consistent black presence in her life was her mom. The neighborhood she grew up in all white from a very young age being black meant constantly explaining herself to the world. My best friend was Sasha. He was a neighbor and since my childhood. I thought he was my brother's because we were together all the time. So in this street when somebody would ask me why are you black?

2 (11m 12s):
He would say number one? She's my sister number two. She is black because her father was from Africa and Guess what? Everybody is black and Africa and they would say yeah, but she was born in Moscow. She supposed to be white and this has okay Yelena, if somebody else asked you the question about Carla, we're just beating them right away. It's how we were known in the neighborhood as the most cruel fighter. You taught me how to fight. He told me you take a bottle you break the bottle

1 (11m 45s):
and with this whatever is

2 (11m 47s):
left you just put in the face. So we were you know bad kids in the neighborhood. This was when she was only seven years old. So Russia wasn't some racism for Utopia people like you Lena obviously came up against what I would call racism, but when I asked the Elena about it that was not racism that was curiosity that was ignorance

1 (12m 11s):
but not

2 (12m 12s):
racism. This happened a lot in our conversation you Lena would tell a story about some experience that sounded on a Horrible to me, but she'd always insist that it wasn't racism or discrimination. It was ignorance. I think that ignorance can be and often is racism but I didn't want to debate that fact so much as understand how she thought about it. Although people commented on it Elena didn't think too much about the color of her skin when she was a child. She didn't feel different because she was black but because her family came from America, it wasn't until she started thinking about boys and love that. She thought more and more about the way she looked how much she stood out from everyone else and I would ask my mother mom.

2 (12m 56s):
Why am I so ugly? Why is my nose so big why are my lips? So huge and she would say no, you're beautiful and then she would ask her American friends to bring American magazines black and lovely I

1 (13m 12s):
think it was called Black and lovely and my mom

2 (13m 15s):
would show me those Megan's they look those beautiful women. You look just like them. And I was take this I was so proud I would take this magazine bring it to Sasha and other friends in the street and say look I'm just like

1 (13m 28s):
them and they would say Elena. This is a very strange

2 (13m 32s):
magazine. Why is everybody black in it? Don't bring those magazines any anymore and I felt so lonely because I didn't have anybody just like me I'd assumed that there would be a little community of all the black Russians. That they'd stick together and hang out all the time, but it sounds like you Lena didn't have that wasn't around people that looked like her not even her mom really Lily was much lighter and gorgeous. According to you Elena. Just for the record when I met you Lena. I thought she was gorgeous. There's something Regal about her. It's hard to imagine her as a self-conscious teenager, but she was my mother would always remind me.

2 (14m 17s):
Let's say she would tell me be careful. With boys, they would not date you because they love you but because they would want to try dating a black girl and that's why my self-esteem was damaged probably because I didn't trust any Russian guy that would approach me and I didn't believe that somebody would fall in love with me at all sincerely. I wanted to know the ways in which being black cheap dealing is life in Russia and to hear her tell it her family was never denied in a Permanent because of their race she was never put into an inferior school because of her race. She was never singled out by law enforcement because of her race there wasn't that kind of institutional racism, but she was lonely.

2 (15m 2s):
She felt undesirable being black made it hard for her to imagine a future with a partner so much of my conversation with her was about wanting to find her person her strong desire to find someone and her fear that she wouldn't Despite her insecurities Elena was popular and accomplished. She took music lessons spoke. Perfect English and was an excellent tennis player just as her grandfather would have wanted her mother constantly reminded her that she had to be better than everyone else. Apparently you still have to be twice as good in the Soviet Union.

2 (15m 44s):
She was recruited to play tennis at one of the country's top universities and accepted into their prestigious journalism program. She had so much going for her, but she still felt Like no boy would ever want to date her until she met vasya. He was a chess champion. I'm go. Well I started in Moscow State University. So I was a tennis player. He was a chess play and we were beautiful and he had a very rough time dating me. Mmm, then the coach physical training coach of the university called his parents and said, do you know that he's dating a black girl and they said well, yes why what's wrong and that's because she will get pregnant and she will marry him then his parents called my mother and said if you think that your daughter will make our son.

2 (16m 48s):
Marry your daughter you are wrong and then my mom said if you think that my About will marry your son your damn wrong this no way my gorgeous daughter will never young let's up and it was just going back and forth back and forth. So he felt that he had to demonstrate that no matter what he will be with me. So he started missing his glasses and he would come to my classes and sit there. So the teachers from his glasses would write him you have to attend you have to attend boom boom. Boom. So the end of the story was very sad.

2 (17m 28s):
He was kicked out of university for missing classes and he was

1 (17m 32s):
taken to the Army

2 (17m 35s):
where he had to go to the Army. Yeah, if you are kicked out of University, you have to go to the Army. Wow, so that was my first experience. Do you think of Russian Point? Yeah, I'm pretty dramatic end to a first relationship but the drama didn't stop there for you Lena a few years later. She dated a Russian guy. From voronezh a small town about a day's drive away from Moscow. They went to visit his parents and stay for the weekend one morning. She came back from the shower and caught her boyfriend's mother examining the bed sheets and later. I asked

1 (18m 8s):
my boyfriend. What was she looking and he said well, she knows was so people of color. So she thought that their she's 30 and she was very surprised that they were clean. But again, it was not racism. It was pure. Pure ignorance pure ignorance and this woman adored me later. So but I felt that enough is enough and it's time for me to to be with people that knows who I am don't look at what sheets and don't ask stupid questions.

2 (18m 49s):
Something was missing for your lane and Russia and like me and her grandparents. She decided to look elsewhere for answers. She thought she'd find them in the very country that her grandparents had fled America you Lena had heard about American racism, but she still thought she would be better off in the USA. When we saw Adam Murphy when we heard about Otto - where we heard about those brilliant musicians and Jazz musicians and all of them were black and very very very successful. So when my grandmother would start telling me about racism I was saying yeah. Yeah. Yeah, right and think about all those very famous African-American athletes.

2 (19m 36s):
That would be laughing all the way to the bank. So I felt that I would be understood much better by people like me and in fact, yes. I was thinking I was dreaming about going to United States and Marrying an African-American when you pictured and dreamed of going to America. What did that life look like? How would this guy look like? What in my dream I said life, but I guess that's a good description of the guy. Yeah, see I was not really dreaming about Sky scrapes and you know capitalism and all that.

2 (20m 16s):
I didn't understand about that but I just felt that what's this song One Day the the dump he'll be tall and black who song was that? What do you do with your Prince Will Come the yeah, we were yeah, actually, it's a man. I love it's Gershwin not Disney, but what do I know my parents almost exclusively. Listen to Stevie Wonder's inner Visions for most of my childhood. I was expecting to me to Prince that would look like me and he would look at me and say oh my God, you're so gorgeous because even the guy that really really loved me by SIA in the universe.

2 (20m 60s):
City he used to call me monkey. He called me monkey with love. He didn't realize that that was insulting and I never told him that in America that would be insulting but you know in Russia guys would call the girls a rabbit. I don't know my cat. Well, he called me my monkey and I couldn't explain to him that that was racist because I knew he was not racist. That's just how he cold. And I felt what K if I looked like a monkey and so what wait so this guy called you monkey and you didn't say like hey, like that's not you can't do that, but he didn't insult me.

2 (21m 42s):
He didn't mean to insult me. He loved me and as I told you he was punished for this

1 (21m 48s):
love.

2 (21m 50s):
I don't I would have trouble with that one. I know I know it sounds

1 (21m 55s):
terrible to you. I know.

2 (22m 0s):
You'll in a move to America in 1989. She was 27 years old and she built a life for herself there. He worked as a journalist. She made friends black friends. She loved to go to black churches and listen to gospel music live. She went to salons actually knew how to style black hair and she found her black prince charming. He was perfect. He was perfect. He was playing tennis. He live jazz. She'll he liked classical. He was just perfect for me. They did it for a few years you Lena was sure he was going to propose and then one night he invited her out to a fancy restaurant.

2 (22m 41s):
So I got dressed and prepared. I knew what how I will answer him. So we go to this restaurant very fancy restaurant and the reception they tell us that we are sorry it is packed, but there is just one place neither bathroom and He says no, no, no, we're not taking it. And I said no, we're not he says well, I want to sit near the window. I said, well, it doesn't really matter window bathroom. I mean, it's clean the food is the same because I want to to hear the proposal or okay, I didn't care where we're sitting there. Yeah, so he said no and he said Yelena, you don't understand how our grandparents were fighting they were dying for the right to sit at the window.

2 (23m 27s):
Not at the bathroom and I Said you know in Russia unless you bribe and if you won't get a table regardless of your color as long as you're green, you will get it. So please stop thinking stop feeling so insecure and he said, you know what we would never understand each other your black outside, but you are white inside. You don't understand what we went through and that was the end of our is that the end of your early? Yes. Yes. Yes because it showed that we were so different and he said that we would never understand each other.

2 (24m 8s):
She agreed they had different pain points in Russia. She had an experience the kind of institutional racism he had and she said her boyfriend couldn't possibly feel the things that upset her as a Russian the way she felt them. Do you feel like you fully understand African-American like the the sort of like pain points or No, I understand them. But I don't feel them. That's some difference the things that upsets. Let's say African-Americans. I can see why that obsessed but it doesn't hurt when he sent to you like your black on the outside. But you're white on the inside. What was your reaction to that? I thought you was stupid and I said, how could they be black and white inside?

2 (24m 54s):
I am I mean, I'm proud I am and things that I went through. Through you don't understand did you guys ever talk about race before that that argument that you had on the restaurant? Was that like a conversation you guys had are not at all. No, he know we didn't talk about that. No with did it surprise you and it came up in the restaurant. Yes it did. Because I still don't believe that if they didn't offer us a place near the window it meant that it was racism. I still don't believe so so for you, it feels easier just to sort of give like a little bit of the benefit of the doubt RV.

2 (25m 41s):
Like I can't I can't know for sure whether what the attend what the intention was, so I have to let it go and I don't want to I don't want to think about it. I don't want to damage my nerve system by thinking

1 (25m 54s):
about

2 (25m 54s):
Bob that I will never know the truth number one number two, it can be both number two. It can be both and number three what difference does it make it's an interesting that you say that just because I feel like it's a thing we do all the time in America is that we we replay out these moments of discomfort for each other in the black community over and over and over again for what for what meaning what if you told me that you I did that and a result as a result. This restaurant was closed for example, or as a result. This waiter was kicked out that makes sense.

2 (26m 36s):
But why going through that again and again and again without any results why scratching the place till the first blood on your body but I think like part of the reason we do it is to recognize that like these this is still had this is happening. Like we must acknowledge that this is happening. We can't pretend it's not Happening. Yes, I acknowledge it. But again if I was to sit down at home and start, oh they did it because I'm Jewish know they did it because I'm black know they did it because my grandparents are American. No, they did it because of that and that and that, you know, there's no end to that. I think for many black Americans there's a curiosity and need to understand and explore that constant, unease we experience because I'm black as my doctor giving me proper care because I'm black am I here to fill a diversity quota because I'm black.

2 (27m 28s):
Am I being pulled over part of what it means to be black here part of what draws us together is investigation of that discomfort. There's communal reassurance in that. I know that black people are not a monolith yet. The fact that you Lena didn't have this curiosity surprised me, but it also made sense. Elena didn't have an echo chamber of injustices growing up. I can talk to my hair. I list my trainer my family and say hey this thing happened Elena had no Community to share with nobody to co-sign her problems were not those of black people but her own I want to be clear being black is not some joyless exercise for me.

2 (28m 20s):
I wouldn't trade it for the world. I'm not moping about but you lie. In is right about one thing thinking about race. All the time is exhausting, but I can't let it go and I tried to explain to her why I feel like part of it is like it it all they're small things that I feel like in some ways add up to one really big problem. That just still hasn't been solved that it's like it's small things that add up to feeling like you don't belong here that like the country that you've always that you've always existed in like doesn't want you. I don't know. I think I had this mirror. I had this dream that Yes somewhere. There is another world where I belong to and this is America now with you.

2 (29m 5s):
I don't understand where your dream house. I don't know where my new husband. I don't know where I don't know exact back to Africa, right? Are you talking about going to Africa? I don't even think it's necessarily back to Africa. I think I don't know if this place exists. I think it's just this this. In some ways still doesn't accept me after all of this this time and that maybe this is as good as it gets and maybe there isn't another place or a better option. Do you think it's silly that I think about these things so much. Yes, I think that's silly that you think about it so much. There are more important things in your life that you you don't have to waste your time on things that you cannot change and you don't have to change those people if that's how they are that you you don't I don't think you have to waste your life on changing them.

2 (30m 2s):
You just drop them and go on with your life. Don't worry about the things you cannot change sometimes I think you lean is right that I'm silly for obsessing over this stuff. And I wonder if maybe she's better off for not having spent her entire life puzzling and picking over every interaction with white people that maybe her grandparents moving to the USSR helped her bypass parts of America's particular brand of racism, but maybe I never really had a choice race specifically black and white is such an integral part of living in this country. Andre yelling and zest I have bigger things to worry about but honestly, I can't think of anything that affects me more being a black American is what keeps me from feeling like I truly belong in this country.

2 (30m 50s):
Have you ever felt like you belong somewhere like have you ever found that place? You know what for me it's not where it's more with whom that's what was important for me. When I lived in the United States. It was important that I was surrounded by people. I really loved it doesn't matter where I am. As long as I surrounded by love. That's all that matters. I wish that surrounding myself with people. I love solved my problem. I am surrounded by people. I love a lot of those people are black. And as long as I feel threatened on behalf of all of them, I can't stop wishing.

2 (31m 33s):
There was a better place for us. Jelena's better place turned out to be right where she started she lived in the USA for 12 years and might have stayed but then she met her husband a White Russian, man, and they moved to Moscow where he did treat her like a princess. It was hard to find a black Salon in Moscow back then so he would fly her to Paris just to get her hair done.

1 (32m 3s):
Manuel Barry is one of the producers of our

2 (32m 5s):
show. Thanks to you Leonard. Amy coughs key is making a documentary about black Russians that includes you in a Conga coming up a guy gets kicked out of a thing. He had no idea he could get kicked out of that's in a minute. I'm just gonna go public radio when our program continues support for This American Life comes from Squarespace create a website to Showcase your work publish new content or announce your upcoming events or performances and make it stand out with designer crafted templates that are e-commerce ready and all mobile-friendly right out of the box start your free trial and receive a special offer on your first purchase at squarespace.com / American and use promo code American a dream is just a great idea.

2 (32m 52s):
That doesn't have a website yet. Make it a reality with Squarespace. Support for This American Life comes from the Capital One Saver Card with a Capital One Saver Card. You earned four percent cash back on dining and entertainment that means four percent on milkshakes with the kids and 4% on music with your pals. You'll also earn 2% cash back at grocery stores and one percent on all other purchases. Now when you go out you cash in Capital One what's in your wallet terms apply. This american guy from Ira Glass. Today's program get back to where you once belonged stories of people who do not feel quite at home where they are searching for their place and their people we've arrived at two of our program at to Nowhere Man.

2 (33m 38s):
So this story is about somebody who felt like he really had found his place in the world a job. He was good at group of people that he liked and admired and then he got kicked out and kicked out of this way. He didn't even know it was a possibility. Reporter Jamie RAF explains role Rodriguez is like a lot of the dad's I grew up with in Texas, but somehow even more so he fixes his own truck kills his own goats, when you walk into his living room. There's two buck heads on the wall a big TV and in the middle of it all the thing. He's most proud of on a little shelf encased in plexiglass.

1 (34m 13s):
This is my department of justice badge or the immigration inspector badge. That was

2 (34m 18s):
it's kind of surprising that where I will end up working for immigration given how we first met. Those guys he grew up in Mission, Texas right by the border. He go back and forth between Mexico and the us all the time and when he crossed the border agents would always stop him bust his chops asked for his papers. He'd always show them. Here's my birth certificate born in Brownsville, Texas, but they were jerks about it. By the time we roll was a teenager. He says it was like a ritual

1 (34m 46s):
be after usually kind of looks at you and then start saying, okay. What's your name, sir? You know, what would bring you in here? Like what? Yeah, pretty much. Oh, yeah. Yeah, you want to know if I'm a citizen or that it says, well I am as well. We know you're not Nestle. Okay, people show me all you know, we can't show you and and I thought oh come on man. It was just I've been here many times and and it's not right for you to harass me like this. I don't know why it would because I look God look, I don't look the part. I don't look as as US citizen e enough. If as you want me to convey my features are very Hispanic Very Mexican

2 (35m 28s):
eventually after a bit. They let him go every time he was going back and forth across the border so much because his parents were in Mexico and he lived with his aunt and uncle in Texas. It wasn't a great situation. His cousin's never really accepted him. They'd beat him up at family functions his aunt and uncle would introduce. Their own kids first then him he says he was an afterthought at best.

1 (35m 58s):
I got called from bastard to to a negative because I was different from their colors. That was very dark compared to them. They were very light skinned and I don't know if you what's what the translation would be ended our remodel. You know what I'm talking about a remodel the word a remodel. It's a relative that just stays there like a leech

2 (36m 21s):
when Raul would visit his parents. Parents during the Summers. He begged to stay. He hated living in Texas, but they always send him back your mom gave birth to you on the US side so you could be a citizen. They'd say it's going to be better for you there trust us. Eventually Raul says it did get better after high school. When he joined the Navy the structure the order the authority he liked it which led him to law enforcement after the Navy. He became an immigration officer just like the officers who harassed him when he was a teenager even got assigned to the same Bridge. He used to cross back then some of the very same officers who doubted his citizenship or now his coworkers.

1 (37m 1s):
I had this one inspector that that there's a female and When I showed up for work for the first date, I told you remember me is a no, I don't remember you used to take me inside and you wanted to break me and he says was I mean I will yes you were very mean try to intimidate me a lot now. I'm sorry

2 (37m 23s):
from the beginning Raul was a very thorough officer. For example, one day. This guy comes through Raul knows really well used to work with him at a Furniture Factory. I was like an uncle to him. He's coming from Mexico into the United States Raul checks his papers and it turns out the guy had a tourist visa, which doesn't let you work. I will revoke the Visa took it away didn't let the guy in

1 (37m 47s):
for a wider one point. They called me little guy over there. Got you

2 (37m 51s):
kind of like pain in the ass

1 (37m 52s):
because I won't let anything through I had to do it. I didn't let anybody

2 (37m 57s):
slick. Raul wasn't just thorough his wife told me there are a lot of slugs in federal government. Raul wasn't one of them. He's an above and beyond guy a standout and he stood out more and more because it's pretty well documented Customs and Border Protection or CBP had some ugly instances of corruption bribery drug smugglers infiltrating by contrast real was a total Boy Scout even won an award. In 2006 a woman approached him while he was buying cigarettes at the gas station. She asked him if he would look the other way while she smuggled in a kid and pushed a little piece of paper in his hand with her number on it Raul set up a sting and the next time they met he wore a wire.

2 (38m 41s):
She was later arrested CBP gave Rowlett Integrity award one of their highest honors his bosses Flume to Washington for big ceremony roll. Got to wear his finest uniform his kids were there. I got to see him walk across the stage. Shake the Commissioners hand and they gave him a plaque which these days sits in a place of honor near the deer heads in his living room and in his personal life too. He was totally by the book. He was taught not to fraternize with anyone breaking immigration laws. It could cost you your job.

1 (39m 12s):
So you have to cut ties with anybody. That's had that kind of a history. Well, everybody has people who are illegally in the US so you have to cut those out. And

2 (39m 25s):
anyone who was close to who was undocumented he cut out of his life friends family members. Raul didn't make

1 (39m 33s):
exceptions

2 (39m 41s):
Raul found his home Customs. It's actually remarkable how much Raul refers to the people he worked with as family as a Brotherhood

1 (39m 51s):
that finally belong to somebody to belong to something and Feels good to be wanted to be accepted when you never did when you were not cast or when you were just there.

2 (40m 4s):
They did all the things families do a combination of responsibilities, but also fun the through barbecues. They went to baptisms birthday parties. They hung out all the time then one day in April 2018 role goes into work. He's starting his

1 (40m 19s):
shift and I see the two managers come in and Saddam and there comes the two chiefs. Be care. Everybody be careful. Make sure you're not on the phones and stuff like that. They go into the office. They set up I guess and I'm doing my work and stuff and one of them comes out and says they Alito and come to the office.

2 (40m 39s):
Raoul had no clue what this was about but it looks

1 (40m 42s):
serious. They never called you just for nothing lies and they don't come in twos just another they have to have a witness. They open up an envelope and that's where it says. It says it says we're going to have to pick up your gun your weapon and your credentials. This is the paper says you're no longer as if this data a law enforcement officer until for pending further further investigation, you know investigation. Oh what for I will have not done never done anything wrong as we don't know nothing about that. This is we're just giving you the notice and here to pick up your weapon and your badge and so I take off my belt I go on my belt.

1 (41m 26s):
And I take off my badge and that take out my credentials and I give a

2 (41m 30s):
tone Rose head was spinning it worked there for 18 years. He was close to retirement had he done something illegal and not known about it something small. He'd forgotten about he scanned his memory and he couldn't think of a single thing. I will walk back out in the main office. Everyone is looking at him kind of sideways.

1 (41m 50s):
I was embarrassed because I had to do that walk of shame walk amongst my fellow officers. Yours and without a badge and a gun and people were just looking at me saying hey, what's wrong? What's wrong - I don't know man. I don't know

2 (42m 4s):
he sat at his desk for a minute. And then he called his wife. She works at another branch of Homeland Security. He was quietly freaking out. So he went home he and his wife went around and around trying to think of what it might be for the life of them. They had no clue

1 (42m 19s):
about a week later the the oig the office of Inspector General. Wanted to meet with me at the courthouse building they take us into a room one of those typical cop rooms that has the small table and it has a dark window. Where there is there. Would they you know that they're watching you from the other side. So two Ages come in and they Read Me My Rights. So I did. Okay, this is Criminal and so it is are you familiar with this piece of piece of paper and they slide it over to me.

2 (42m 56s):
From his 18 years as a customs officer. He could tell right away what it was a Mexican birth certificate. I

1 (43m 2s):
just didn't know whose it was until I actually read it. So I start reading I see my name's I will probably is and I see my parents names once he's got margarito and my grandparents names today. Well man, who held him you recognize it. I don't know. I've never seen it, but I know who it that is mine because it's got my name my parents names and my grandparents names, but I don't recognize. Date of birth. It's a different one from the one I have now

2 (43m 29s):
on this birth certificate Not only was his birthday different but more importantly so is his place of birth a village outside of Matamoros Mexico. If this thing was real then Raul was not American. L was confused he had his birth certificate from Brownsville Texas. You've been using it as whole life didn't make sense. The agents explained Raoul had applied for a green card for his brother as part of the application process. They looked into rowels own citizenship documents in their research. They'd stumbled onto this this Mexican birth certificate and here they were real was like look, this is not the first time someone's scrutinized.

2 (44m 15s):
My citizenship will get The bottom of it and clear it up. He told the agents. You know what let me get my dad in here right then and there he called his nephew and got him to drive his dad over the Border. They all met just a few hours later at a Starbucks roll. Sat with his father and the two investigators at a table inside. No one ordered coffee rolls dad. Margarito told the investigators the story that row had always heard. The role is Mom crossed the border, so he'd be born in Brownsville. Then the investigators showed him the Mexican birth certificate. Margarito looked down at the table. He admitted that yes. Raul was born in Mexico at home.

2 (44m 56s):
Yes. His birth date was in 1968 1969. Yes. Raul was a Mexican citizen. He

1 (45m 5s):
had been texting me during the

2 (45m 6s):
day. That's how his wife Anita because I need to also works in Immigration. She knew how serious this all was. He texted me back.

1 (45m 16s):
A message that indicated that it was regarding his birth. So I said well, where are you and he told me where he was and I said, okay. I'm on my way.

2 (45m 29s):
She rushed over to the Starbucks

1 (45m 31s):
and when I got to the location him and his dad were walking out they were both crying and I heard my father-in-law my Swagger. Don't tell him most you don't mean Louie support of Ian. I'm sorry, son. I did it for your benefit and I just My heart sank. And I feel bad now because I literally unloaded on my father-in-law. I told him off. And of course dad just says we just did we did it because we thought it was best for you to give you a better opportunity and he has had a great opportunity if it wasn't for what they did.

1 (46m 17s):
I wouldn't have them and I wouldn't have my kids. I'm thankful for that. But at any point, they could have said wait, I need to tell you this and they never did.

2 (46m 33s):
Roll sister saw differently, they don't blame their dad. Margarito. They tried to convince Raul that what their father did was forgivable even understandable back. Then unauthorized border crossings were an unremarkable fact of life. The Border fence the agents surveillance blimps that all came later, especially after 9/11. Margarito told me he regrets getting the fraudulent birth certificate now. He Prides himself on being honest and he said he's ashamed to face Raul. But it didn't seem like such a serious offense at the time. It's hard to get exact numbers but one investigation in the 1990s found 900 fraudulent birth certificates registered by midwives in South Texas.

2 (47m 15s):
Same as rules. The undoing of vowels citizenship set off a chain reaction in his family Raul's son who had had from a previous marriage have gotten his citizenship through Raul. Here's a neat again.

1 (47m 33s):
What happens to him? What happens to my daughter in law my grandkids? And he gets deported at people are thinking about that. You know, this that ripple

2 (47m 44s):
effect. Raul broke the news to his son Rahul Junior that afternoon after he left the Starbucks. He explained the whole thing Raul citizenship is no longer valid. So neither was Raul Juniors now, they were both undocumented incredibly real jr. Had just applied to become a CBP officer himself. His interview was coming up in a couple weeks. Now, of course that wasn't going to happen Raul's lawyer told me that when someone like Raul signs up to serve in the government like by joining the military working. For CBP the government doesn't look too hard for reasons why they can it's when the person asks for something in return like a green card for a brother that the government takes a closer look after that day at Starbucks roll and Anita immediately made a plan for how to fix all of this growl could just apply for a green card because his wife is a citizen it would be a hassle, but they will get through it.

2 (48m 44s):
So they filled out the application and Raul and his Railway was super upfront about everything he knew what he was up against he'd made a false claim to US citizenship said he was an American when he really wasn't but there's a clause in the u.s. Immigration code that says if he didn't do it knowingly the government can exercise discretion. He and Anita were hoping that USCIS agency that issues green cards would see this all as a big mix-up granting the exception and they would be done. They thought it would happen quickly actually, which wasn't the case for a long time. They didn't hear anything so long, they started to get nervous. They started look for help from public officials after all roles a veteran law enforcement.

2 (49m 29s):
They reached out to their Congressman then Ted Cruz the senator that's not the full list why I told them the other day. I

1 (49m 36s):
said, you know what I said we both voted for Trump. Why don't we call him and say hey help me out, press I voted for you. I said I know man. Not you might come down at the Port you and then where would we be even as far as a OC the castle Cortez, I sent her a message before we contacted you. She never responded

2 (49m 57s):
everywhere. They looked people were turning their backs that thing about how Customs officers aren't supposed to hang out with undocumented people. That was Raul now, so all his friends the co-workers he referred to as family. They almost all abandon him Theory his wife. Anita shouldn't even be hanging out. Out with him one person who did reach out to him that lady who used to bust his chops in the bridge when he was a kid Raul explain to my producer Nadia Raymond.

1 (50m 25s):
She thought I was having financial troubles. And so she called me up and she offered to give me money,

2 (50m 31s):
but she didn't say anything to you about like your you know, your citizenship or anything like that.

1 (50m 35s):
No, I told her I told her I guess you were right. What'd she say? She just started laughing. She says It is I travel don't say that

2 (50m 47s):
another friend who stood by Raul and still season is John a Garcia. The Jag does initials they met for breakfast at a Mexican place across the street from an immigration detention center for kids. The Jag is allowed to see Raul because he's retired the of Customs last year said it was too stressful. He wanted something more relaxed. So he became a drill sergeant at a boot camp for kids who get in trouble. They gossip about work who got a promotion. Motion about that guy with the dog breath about his hygiene and the Jags encounter that woman in the Cargo

1 (51m 22s):
lane room. Love lucky that it was India. Sorry, Gloria. She slap me or she did nombre. Yeah. Oh, she's

2 (51m 30s):
just lit up the freaking Dynamite man. I was coming back so much drama eventually after about 40 minutes. They finally start talking about Raul situation about how he's afraid to even leave the

1 (51m 41s):
house like right now, I don't have any status. At all, they like and get stop right now and I can get deported pretty much all set up for deportations. It was it's on my side seven pocket them has it's a little bit more difficult to deal with because if I get stopped by moment right now, I'm a gunner they will I have no status. So right now can I really go out I go out, but all I'm looking over my shoulder eight was you like all these other people please I can't I'm in the same boat. Exactly

2 (52m 18s):
roll tells the Jag. He's been waiting way too long for an answer on his green card. I'm starting to get really frustrated. He feels like the government singling him out because he was a customs officer. He thinks they're trying to cover up that they employed an undocumented immigrant by mistake for so long. He says this over and over said to me lots of times but the Jags not sure he's right. He says maybe the government wants to show they don't give anyone preferential treatment.

1 (52m 45s):
Fortunately it if it ever comes out of they're probably going to have to show that they were you know, we disagree gave him what he deserves like everybody else. You know, why are we breaking the law and we're going to give him an exception. Everybody's going to say wait a minute. You can't do that.

2 (53m 0s):
Why the Jag does try to make Rahul feel better tells him he sure he'll get his citizenship. Eventually. He asked our wolf. He's talking to his dad. He isn't the Jack says he should. But ultimately what leaves an impression on me is that he talks about where I was case like any other like an unfortunate undocumented person I will sit there taking it all in but looking like he doesn't really agree Well Woman Anita had been waiting for nine months when they finally got called in for the Green Card interview Anita said it was a jarring experience. These were officers like the guys they both worked with were the first ones to jump in when things got tough they had each other's backs for years.

2 (53m 46s):
If anyone would get that Raul had done nothing wrong it would be them but that's not what happened.

1 (53m 52s):
We were treated like criminals. They took us sworn statement from each of us. They took two from him. Like they were trying to trip him up or trip me up or something. And and I don't blame the the specific officers that did the interview you do what you're told. If I didn't need my federal job. I would have told them all to go

2 (54m 16s):
to hell. It's about as dramatic reversal as you could imagine Raul was a hard-ass rule following law enforcement officer who'd learned. He'd been violating the very rules. He'd been enforcing for almost 20 years. Did it change him did he see things differently did the rules seem fair now that he's on the receiving end of them. We talked about this a lot. Raul says the cases he's thinking about now are the ones where he stuck to the rules and didn't give people a break and as a result, they suffered badly. Like there's this one case a brother and a sister. They were both really young.

1 (54m 54s):
They were being smuggled we had to like call the consulate and arrange transportation back to their home countries. It turns out that this little boy was he was coming to donate an organ to a sister who was dying in Houston. He was going to donate his one of his kidneys and we couldn't even let him through. To save this little girl's life. And the little boy was like man, I got to go I have to go.

1 (55m 33s):
And they said no he can't. And we have to turn them back. He starts crying and crying and crying and I know what's wrong. Hey, what's going on? Why are you crying? Because I left my Bible over there. And I will just give you another one. It's a no. No, that's my Bible.

2 (56m 11s):
At this point in the interview roll got out of his chair got some water from the

1 (56m 15s):
kitchen. I'm sorry, man. Take your time. Now. I'm in this stuff. And I haven't quite a long time to hear you're good. We just had to turn them over and that was it. I feel like He was doing it for a good reason. He was doing some he felt it was doing something good and then he was being treated like like like that.

1 (56m 59s):
No.

2 (57m 6s):
This is a story he's always felt bad about but it feels worse. Now I think in part because he can relate to the kid a little more to someone trying to do the right thing caught on the wrong side of the rules. It's also a story we're following the rules makes you do a thing that also feels very wrong. You placed a lot of faith in

1 (57m 25s):
the rules. Yeah,

2 (57m 26s):
because when you did these difficult things that you had to do Deport a teen or You know turn back the this organ donor child. It was sort of like essentially the rules are the rules. I can't do anything about it. And now that you're on the receiving end of that. Do the rules seem more arbitrary to you or meaningless than they used to?

1 (57m 55s):
No. They don't I still believe that the rules are the rules they still apply and I have to abide by them. I still have to follow the rules regardless of what the outcome is of what happens and that's the frustrating part is that they've gone overboard on my my case on my my my my situation. They're doing things differently with me because who I

2 (58m 31s):
am USCIS won't comment on ongoing cases, but I ran this by for immigration lawyers and they said everyone is being treated badly. They didn't think Raul was being treated worse than anyone else one in Texas who has a lot of experience in this exact kind of case said sure two years ago real would have gotten a green card. But since President Trump, basically everyone with fraudulent birth certificates is denied. In fact, if anything, she said he's lucky they didn't lock him up or put him into deportation

1 (59m 1s):
proceedings.

2 (59m 9s):
There's lots of ways. This is hard for Raul his wife Anita. She told me she thinks a lot about how Raul never wanted to grow up in Texas with his aunt and uncle and cousins how if he'd had his way. He would have stayed in Mexico with his mom and dad working on the farm. In the end somehow the choice is his dad made deprived rule of a home on either side of the

1 (59m 29s):
Border all those years that my husband was here growing up with his aunt and uncle suffering without his mom and dad when he missed his mom. He always tell me I wish I had going born in Mexico because then I could have stayed with my mom and dad. And now at the age of 50 he finds out that he could have had that and they lied to him his entire time. It's like know what was it because they didn't want

2 (1h 0m 2s):
me. Rahul hasn't talked to his dad and months since that day at the Starbucks.

1 (1h 0m 7s):
It totally changed how I see him now to where I thought he was my hero. He was even though I didn't grow up with them. I took him to heart. I strongly believed in what he told me what he said. And one of the things was that that bear be as honest as you can. I don't know. I don't know if I don't know if I'll ever see my dad again for after this

2 (1h 0m 38s):
as he reached out.

1 (1h 0m 40s):
No, not at all. I don't I don't think I want to see him ever

2 (1h 0m 45s):
again. Month stick by it then a year, but no decision by the government about rules Green Card application then on October 29th of last year Raul got a letter from the government his Green Card application was denied. They said Raoul had made a false claim to US citizenship said he was an American when he really wasn't it also pointed out that he'd committed voter fraud by voting as an undocumented immigrant. Of course Raul thought he was a citizen at the time. He thought voting was the right thing to do.

2 (1h 1m 25s):
Rose world has shrunk down to a few Acres that he and Anita own. He keeps goats cattle bunch of chickens. He watches the news in the morning while he walks in the treadmill his badge and integrity award are still above the TV. He and Anita had dreamed of retiring in their 50s and driving around the country in an RV maybe visiting their kids at college or on a base. If they decided to join the military now, they can't leave town. There are Border Patrol checkpoints on all the major roads heading out of the valley. After a career of working double shifts in overnights. He finally has time to himself to think maybe too much. The stress of being undocumented is getting to him. He only sleeps for two or three hours at a time.

2 (1h 2m 8s):
He and Anita started fighting real worried for a while. They were headed for divorce. His lawyer told me that Raul could be in this limbo for three or four more years before exhausting. His appeals ruled told me he's thought of just giving up and leaving it would be drastic but it would bring this to an end if the courts ultimately deny him a green card and he's ordered to leave the country. He told me he would go he'd obey the law. He said I'm going to practice what I preach. He'd moved to Mexico. As a former border officer who arrested Smugglers confiscated loads of drugs, he's worried the cartels might come after him. They would still see him as a US Customs and Border Protection guy the way he wishes everyone else would Jeremy Roth is a reporter for the Atlantic.

2 (1h 3m 2s):
Yes. I did a print version of this story and a short video documentary. You can see Raul and Anita. Is that the Atlantic website? Where should I go? If I don't belong where should I go? If I don't belong listen, if I don't belong in heating they're not gonna be needing it know, my program is produced today by Willie Sullivan. Our

1 (1h 3m 31s):
staff includes be matter when me Ella Baker Emmanuel Barry Susan Burton Ben

2 (1h 3m 34s):
Calhoun shank only on drumming nor Guild Damon grave Seth wind making me clean it CC Stone Nelson Catherine Romano. Naughty Raymond, Christopher Sir Topham. Tierney Nancy update and Julie Whitaker, I managing editors Diane woo our executive editors David custom bomb special. Thanks today to Tanya. Medley Jorge just High made. He's Lisa Braga Jody good wind and Kowalski Stephen. Yell where Rachel Rosenblum and Laura Bingham our website This American Life dot-org. We can listen to our Archive of nearly 700 shows for absolutely free This American Life is deliver the public radio stations by PRX the public radio exchange sport for This American Life comes from indeed, but it's skills test but for employers who want to See a deeper sense of the person behind the resume or in more at indeed.com higher.

1 (1h 4m 20s):
Thanks as always for programs co-founder. Mr. Troy.

2 (1h 4m 21s):
Mallick Tia everything he knows about management. He told me he learned from one of the actors in West Side Story. He told me you take a bottle you break the bottle and with this whatever is left. You're just putting this

1 (1h 4m 35s):
case. I'm Ira Glass

2 (1h 4m 37s):
back next week with more stories of This American Life. Where should I go?

1 (1h 4m 46s):
Where should

2 (1h 4m 47s):
I go if I don't? Next week on the podcast of This American Life grams grown man now but when I was a kid, he did something so dangerous so comically dumb it nearly killed him. I used to wonder if you know whether the crime scene investigators came to look what would they make as a whole setup with the even understand what had happened returning to the seeing later forensics for beginners. That's next week on the podcast when you will go public radio station.