1 (0s):
Their podcast listeners. I right here with a quick thing. I want to talk about before the show starts and I want to recommend an app for listening to podcast. That's why I'm here and it is the app that is run by our public radio colleagues at WBEZ and WNYC and NPR, but I am here telling you this just as a fan of the app, I've used this for a long time. It's called Pocket Casts. I've tried a bunch of different apps for listening to podcast. This is the one I've been using for years because I think it has the it's just the easiest to use that as the best interface. All the shows that I like are you like they show up as like these little icons that you can move around in a Range. So for me when I look at my own right here, I see that the daily is at the top and reply all the Radiolab.

1 (43s):
I just started with need to Ezra kinds of podcast senses, but came out and so he's up there these days. I don't know. This is the thing you can kind of just sort of smush the icons with your thumb and move them around. You can also customize the playback controls, which is great for me because I listened at Double speed or one and a half time speed which I know is not for everybody, but I Like that, it's also really easy to share not just an episode like it was into an episode but a link to the exact spot in the episode that you want other people to hear. There's a whole Discovery feature to find new podcasts that I never use myself, but here is very helpful. When I mentioned to the podcast people that I was doing this they're like, oh be sure to tell everybody that it's available in every platform Android and iPhone and desktop computer and it works with Sonos and Amazon Echo and Alexa and Apple watch blah blah blah.

1 (1m 28s):
Okay, so I've said that it's Free free free it's completely free totally free. So Pocket Casts. Try it out. See what you think. That's enough talking. That's my recommendation. Take it or leave it. Here's the show. Support for This American Life comes from the Capital One Walmart Rewards Card earn unlimited 5% back at Walmart online 2% in Walmart stores at restaurants and on travel and 1% everywhere else when you want all that you need the Capital One Walmart Rewards Card what's in your wallet terms and exclusions apply? Support for This American Life comes from zip recruiter hiring is challenging but there's one place where you can go where hiring is simple and smart.

1 (2m 16s):
That place is zip recruiter. We're growing businesses connect to qualified candidates. Try it for free @ zip recruiter.com / American zip recruiter the smartest way to hire. A quick warning. There are curse words that are unbeaten today's episode of the show. If you prefer a beeped version, you can find that at our website This American Life dot-org. So a couple years ago Michael wrote a book about Meryl Streep and it did fine good reviews hit the bestseller list for a couple weeks and Michael did something that I guess is a normal thing to do if you've worked on anything for a year and a half including a book I would occasionally check its ratings on Amazon and by occasionally, I mean all the time and I have to say most of them are were great, you know there a lot of people really like the book, right?

1 (3m 11s):
It has almost 300 customer ratings on Amazon. Let's just look it up here. Are you okay internet there? Yes. I have 295 customer ratings. Hmm 46 percent of them are five-star ratings 23% are four-star rating. So that's you know, two-thirds of people who rated it loved it, right? So that's nice, but it was his other people the 8% who gave him one star the nine percent who gave him two stars. Those were the people he found himself getting stuck on I have to say I'm not proud of any of this. I'm not proud of talking about this. I wish I was the kind of person who just floated in a cloud above my Amazon ratings, but I'm not I mean some of the some of the things that people wrote an Amazon just kind of cut to the bone in this way, you know, if someone just says boring, you know, a book A book critic isn't going to say boring but if an average customer goes on Amazon, it says this book, Boring boring boring one star I think is worse than ask sort of smart book critic, you know explaining why something did or didn't work.

1 (4m 22s):
Yeah boring Bland hated it. No, there's one that just said no and it just makes you feel terrible. So I would I would check my Amazon score a an unhealthy number of times and sometimes before I went to bed, which is really bad idea because then you would just drift Off to sleep arguing with these people in your head. But then Michael stumbled onto this strategy something you could do to deal with those feelings. This is happened. You know, I was just spending too much time thinking about who these people were and at some point. I just clicked on one of their names one of the people who hated your book.

1 (5m 3s):
Yeah, and that brought me to everything else. They had reviewed on Amazon and I realized that when you do that, you see what they liked and once I saw what some of these people loved and Zon, it completely neutralized them. It's so let's go through some of the ones that you saw. Okay, so Kathy gave me two stars. She says disappointing too much detail about people other than Meryl Streep and not enough about Meryl herself. What did Cathy like a cupcake stand that comes in lavender with polka dots 5 stars and she just writes perfect.

1 (5m 44s):
What's it say to you that she has that she has enough cupcakes that she needs to arrange them on a cupcake stand in polka-dots and that makes her happy. You know, my book cannot speak to that sort of let me let me try this again. Perfection to Kathy is this cupcake stand filled cupcakes with polka dots and my book did not give her that same feeling and that's okay. I read or heard give it one star and said about his book a lot of words, but not interesting get 5 stars too bright red yarn the person who gave him the one word review no gave five stars and a rave to attend kazoo.

1 (6m 35s):
Person who said boring boring boring and also the author is so consumed with his lofty vocabulary that the reader falls asleep give a rave review to a book predicting the end of the world by 2015 a woman named Wendy give one star telling potential readers to move on. What did she love? Okay, so windy gave five stars to an amazon.com e-gift card which struck me as Nuts like why is anyone rating Amazon gift cards on Amazon? It's like just saying if this 20 dollar bill is worth $20. Why rate this thing? This thing couldn't possibly be good or bad.

1 (7m 23s):
Have you done the flip side of this? Have you looked up the people who loved your book to see what else they loved? No, I don't want to know anything more about them. They're angels will we have done that? Let me read some of them to you. This is a woman who gave you five out of five stars interesting. She says this book was well written and very interesting. Merrill's life has been full of interesting people and experiences and I enjoyed learning more about her. She also loved 5 out of 5 Stars the Game of gnomes garden gnome throne for the throne room cracks me up every time I look at it. It's in my bathroom where my Throne is and here's a picture of The Gnome. Yeah. That is that's a gnome.

1 (8m 4s):
Yeah, she puts this in her bathroom. It's in my bathroom my throat she keeps this gnome in her bathroom and she gave it five out of five stars, and she also loved my book. I see what you're saying. It doesn't it's not great if you do it the other way around. Okay, one more this person 5 out of 5 Stars P Chronicles our relationships on stage and off giving us a clear unique portrait of a professional also bought not one not two but three Amazon gift cards, but did you write that? She rated them 5 out of 5 Stars.

1 (8m 45s):
Don't tell me this. She's one of the

2 (8m 47s):
Amazon gift card people

1 (8m 49s):
just buy something buy something that you like a cupcake. Anything get a real thing and rate that I'm sorry. Just why the way Michael sees it the fact that every single thing on Amazon every gift card garden gnome every light bulb and USB cord and mop is measured against every book every classic film against every bit of Journalism and fiction against the Bible and the Quran in the bhagavad-gita all on the same five point scale. It's perverse.

2 (9m 19s):
Those things are

1 (9m 19s):
different. And of course these kinds of reviews are everywhere. I mean the way the world is now, you know, there's just constant feedback about everything you when you take an Uber you're asked to rate the Uber driver, you know, we're just constantly leaving stars for things and leaving customer reviews. You know that there's Yelp. Everyone is constantly assessing everything. That's true. Everything here. For example is a review of The Great Wall of China One Star too crowded too much climbing miss the greatness of it. Ray was a lot of steep climbing time the Parthenon 1 star is just a big bunch of columns that lack artistic taste the Statue of Liberty one star imagine a combination of prison and the worst airport security.

1 (10m 7s):
If you want to feel embarrassed to be an American then you can find it here the Auschwitz concentration camp in Poland 1 star total disgrace. There are no places to rest and reflect in peace surely a site that Just one of the largest mass murders in history deserve some space for reflection falling apart and not well maintained. Welcome WBEZ Chicago. It is This American Life from Ira Glass today in our program in this world. Where now everyone is a Critic we visit places where reviews really should not be happening and the story of somebody who very much does not want to leave a review and someone else with the guts to say no to all the reviewers and haters of the most hated and worst reviewed thing made this past year and you know, That is stay with us.

1 (11m 5s):
That Guan their eyes weren't Watching God. So some things it just feels wrong when they reviewed and I know just read you a bunch of like that. But when I hear one more, I know I do. Okay. This one is for the national park at Gettysburg. One of the pivotal battle grounds in the Civil War woman from Miami gave it three stars and wrote quote. I guess it's a little moving when you think about freedom and all that stuff, but really it's a field. So another thing can feel strange to review or read reviews of churches. One of our contributors be a Parker or in this recently. I hadn't been to church any church in over a year and I'd lost

2 (11m 45s):
myself. I was miserable. My career was struggling relationships restrained little by little I could see myself dating and going to a new church felt like a last

1 (11m 56s):
resort

2 (11m 58s):
one of my roommates suggested a church that she'd been casually

1 (12m 1s):
Tending down the

2 (12m 1s):
street First Corinthian Baptist

1 (12m 3s):
Church.

2 (12m 5s):
The first Sunday. I went I noticed a line half a block long mostly of white people and cargo shorts waiting patiently behind a rope an older black man with church flyers in his hand could see I was confused. You have me toward the front door and greeted me as if he were God's bouncer. It's a big place an old movie theater about 2,000 seats. It's Marble Floors Usher chandeliers. I walked down the crowded aisles and ended up sitting next to an elderly woman dressed in her Sunday Best with this broad. Brimmed Regal hat. She reminded me of my great aunt Louise when I slid into the Pew she hugged me.

2 (12m 47s):
I didn't realize how much I needed that hug and told my eyes started to tear up. So just try to relax the service began with guided meditation and It with communion and the choir singing Frankie Beverly and mazes Happy Feelings. 70s R&B with the blood of Christ. I thought secular music lots of young black people a pastor in jeans at found my own. There was only one problem above me in the far back of the balcony were tourist the white people in line from outside hundreds of them snapping selfies and gawking hovering like a gaggle of anthropologists studying black Baptist and their natural habitat every expression of worship every tear.

2 (13m 45s):
I shed every hug I gave every are my outstretched to God. I felt like I was on display for them. I felt exposed They were baptisms some of the devout being baptized overcome great odds one in particular got the Holy Spirit and sobbed in the pool. Something unnamed and sacred had led them to that moment and all I could think about with the white people upstairs taking pictures of someone's life altering spiritual journey, so they could share them over brunch is really messing with my worship.

2 (14m 28s):
White tourists visiting black churches is a thing, especially in Harlem showing up for free music. It was my first time hearing about it, but I never experienced it before sure there were some white congregants sprinkled throughout downstairs, but their members for lack of a better phrase. They're invited to the cookout the tourists in the balcony. It just want a song. I kept going to this church every Sunday, but I felt like I was in willingly participating in their gospel concert. I struggle to focus on what matters to me most my own relationship with the big guy upstairs. I was navigating all that when I learned about the reviews towards critique the church online writing reviews on websites like Yelp and TripAdvisor some refined seemly love the experience and thank the church for welcoming Outsiders others were not so nice quote.

2 (15m 25s):
The music was loud repetitive and vacuous churches to elevate us to God not bring him to human level 2

1 (15m 33s):
Stars From France. This is a

2 (15m 36s):
scam the children singing our circus animals one star from Italy don't choose this place. If you are expecting the gospel style of Sister Act One Star and this one is meant to be a compliment that I bristled from Spain. I will definitely repeat this experience. If I go back to New York do not be afraid to go to Harlem on your own a lot of white people live there for star. I worship is being graded on a gentrified curve. I got angry. I don't like the tourist but I do love the church.

2 (16m 18s):
It has the familiarity and the warmth that I grew up with but none of the conservative and tolerant baggage the kind that's hesitant to let women on Deacon boards and has strict dress codes. My old church was more insular more of an old-school black Baptist space. Like if you saw a white person during service required a whole quizzical discussion in the car ride home where they lost they someone special friend FCB. He had none of that and I found it liberating. So kept going to the church. I was going to make the best of it but it wasn't easy one recent Sunday at church engrossed in a 15-minute rendition of the blood will never lose its power.

2 (17m 5s):
I swayed to the song meditatively mouth the words with the choir over and over again. I was losing myself and feeling God's Since and out of the corner of my eye, I noticed it the glowing of phones in the dark the older European man with a selfie stick the backpack lady tourists stepping out before the sermon three or four at a time. We want to just say, welcome. Welcome. Welcome. We hope that you feel the power. God we hope that you feel that there's a shift happening in your life as well and that you can begin to take that ship all back to the you know, all across the globe to your own homes. And so F CBC at this time. Let us give our guest a warm welcome.

2 (17m 47s):
Let's give him a hug and show them some love. Amen. We hug the visitors as the church instructs us to do during the welcome and immediately afterwards over 45 chores up and walked out before the sermon had even begun. All I could think was the audacity so ruined

1 (18m 8s):
and you gotta get up every morning and let the enemy know

2 (18m 13s):
that you can't Listen to the sermon. I felt torn and distracted by the tourist are they have to be there at all? Why do I care so much. I asked other congregants of having the tourist there ever made them feel uncomfortable. If they thought it was a bit odd, they ever got self-conscious if it was only me one thought the tourists were fabulous. Another said they didn't think about it one woman said my not wanting them. There was Blasphemous so Oh, yeah, seems like it was only me.

2 (18m 56s):
It was confusing. Yes. I don't want the tourist there. But what kind of Christian am I to be hating on people during a church service, so I went to the head of the church my pastor Pastor Mike warrant to ask. Why are these tourists here? Why are we letting this happen? And how am I supposed to deal with it and see past it? Why do you want the tourists there?

1 (19m 21s):
I don't necessarily think about wanting. Torres we welcome everyone so I don't I don't necessarily say well I want this these people here and I wanted those people who ever comes I celebrate and we're open so I know that the church is that have said that they wouldn't allow tourists or when they do make the tourists pay a bunch of money to come in. They'll take their money, right but for us, I think everyone here as a tourist and like I saw you I know the power of the word and how the word can spread Ed and how people can take what they hear hear and it goes places your words will go to places that you will never go and so that's how I was look at it.

1 (20m 2s):
It is an opportunity to spread this word and to get the message out but doing and expand and broaden our reach and sometimes the people who expand and broaden our reach happy to be tourists

2 (20m 14s):
Pastor. Mike also said my sensitivity about the tourist though. He understands it is generationally different than the older black congregants who perceive the Takes of having essentially a section for white people in a more ironic way than I do

1 (20m 29s):
and I see tourists with Donnelly white in the balcony because they know history enough to know that's different because historically it was flipped. Well, that was a practice this country for years African Americans had to sit in the balcony could not worship with white people because African-Americans relegated to the balcony and could not engage worship

2 (20m 44s):
experience. He knows the tourists are not what everyone wants but what Pastor Mike wants me to know that the tourists aren't just in the balcony and there aren't just white. He says the balcony is for large groups of visitors and they just happened to be European. He insists the largest number of tourists in the church aren't white they're black. They blend in sitting down on the main floor with all of us. So it puts it back to me is my problem with tourists or with white tourists. It's white tourist. He tells me don't be prejudiced. It's wrong

1 (21m 24s):
and we start looking at people who enter our space of worship and because his strangest treating them and because it obviously strangers because of the racial Dimension then we undermine ourselves as followers of the teachings of Jesus and his people who call ourselves

2 (21m 38s):
Christians, and I know that but I can't stop feeling exposed it looks the way it looks white people staring down on us pray. God the Optics are all wrong because I guess because I feel a certain protectiveness because of the shared experience that we have as black people. I feel like protectiveness of like you we are

1 (22m 2s):
Intoxicated by perceptions and image and Optics and Optics communicate no substance. So the question is not what it appears question is do I care that question quite answer is no I can't be consumed with people's perceptions of our space. Because then I'll be trying to curtail we do to respond to people's perceptions. Nah, that's not who we are called to be I can so the Optics of it mean nothing to me

2 (22m 29s):
Pastor. Mike knows what it looks like making white people sit in a sectioned off area. He knows it's provocative. He's fine with it. It's not intended to be punishment, but that doesn't answer my question.

1 (22m 41s):
How do I block them out when I worship when I worship I engaged God I could care. Was a one person or mm. I don't care whose present it's about me. And that moment is a Sacred Space. I do in the presence of others who are celebrating God, but that's the sacred moment for me and my sacred moment cannot be intruded upon by anybody tours or not.

2 (23m 9s):
Pastor Mike's words helped a little I'm aspiring to a new level of clarity in My Worship. Well like his but I'm still working on myself. I'm not there yet. I still don't want people there staring at us. Like we're all some source of entertainment for them but going forward and what I try to do what I can to get the tourists out of my mind and out of my way starting with this review of f CBC from me Parker from Baltimore. Whit's FCB see when Sunday and then kept coming back help me when I really needed it. And if you're a tourist reading this and wonder what the black congregants think of you taking photos during baptisms and baby christenings after one don't love it.

2 (23m 53s):
Please stop help make a great church better. five stars

1 (24m 8s):
Ba Parker in New York. If you Google the First Corinthian Baptist Church, it will take you to the website FC BC NYC with her videos of sermons and guest speakers and all sorts of other stuff. I think we are not going to give you their address. She didn't tank into somebody's watching our show that is coming up a story about somebody who was studiously trying not to give a review think it's not too much to say that is very Freedom. Depends on that that's in a minute from Chicago public radio when our program continues Support for This American Life comes from the Capital One Walmart rewards card with the Capital One Walmart Rewards Card.

1 (24m 54s):
You'll earn unlimited 5% back at Walmart online. That's 5% back at Walmart online. When you grab your shades for your beach trip new boots for your hiking trip or noise canceling headphones. When you need some vacation me time, you'll also earn 2% in Walmart stores at restaurants and on travel and 1% everywhere else when you want all that. You need the Capital One Walmart. Ward's card, what's in your wallet terms and exclusions. Apply Capital One and a Support for This American Life comes from zip recruiter. How can you hire a solid team to achieve your company's goals. Zip recruiter. Zip recruiters technology finds great candidates for your job and invites them to apply.

1 (25m 38s):
It's so effective that four out of five employers who post unzip recruiter get a quality candidate within the first day and today you can try zip recruiter for free at zip recruiter.com American that's zip recruiter.com / American zip recruiter the smartest way to hire This American Life Myra glass today's program Everyone's a Critic Tales From a world where everything gets rated and reviewed we've arrived at two of our show back to mr. Chen goes to Wuhan so this next story is about somebody who's studiously trying not to be a Critic because of where he lives and what he's doing his name is Chen Chow sure and he lives in China as you been going around that country to the most controversial places the places that are the most sensitive as far as the Chinese government is concerned including the at the center of the Corona virus epidemic Chen shows up looks around gathers information and post videos online with the truth of what he's found which is risky because China of course is an authoritarian country with tight grip on information and total control over the media government's version of realities which reported in newspapers on TV and online inside China.

1 (26m 52s):
It's hard to get far news sources, which is why when Chen does all this he tries very hard not to be a Critic not to venture an opinion. Young fan has been watching his videos with Fascination for a while. Now.

2 (27m 5s):
I've been writing about China for years. I'm from there and I've never seen anyone like chin. This guy wasn't a professional reporter or political activist. As far as I know. He was just a guy from the mainland who read about the Hong Kong protests in the state papers and wondered is that the whole story what's really happening and went to see for himself what she'll Chiana jangheung to default on the street you cheated? I shouldn't you down tear initiation in this video shot on the waterfront in Hong Kong. He's saying I want to see with my naked eye was happening on the ground. I want to Bear witness to the stories of the Ball on the ground Transit talented talker a 30-something guy with very expressive eyebrows.

2 (27m 48s):
He's running all over the city in a yellow, press fast. He bought after he saw online that reporters were them at protests. He's a lawyer who was into public speaking a couple years back. He was in a reality TV speech competition kind of like the voice for nerds. That was his first brush with being a public person his video sort of feel like an extension of that speech competition in Said of talking and explaining things on a stage. He's doing it out in the world Trends coverage is painstakingly neutral. He goes to a pro-democracy protests and also to a pro Beijing rally at both he tries to estimate the crowd size and the age of the participants.

2 (28m 37s):
He spends one video explaining subtle differences between factions of the

1 (28m 41s):
Moon.

2 (28m 43s):
At no point. Does he hit his own political stance? In fact emphasizes that he will not take a side. What about see the PNG acting on the

1 (28m 51s):
following show you the Chilean desert only the title that Twitter was so kind of each year

2 (28m 55s):
to saying I will try my best to put my Prejudice aside and stay neutral about what I see this neutrality think is important because across China most people support or at least go along with the party. They're skeptical of people who defy the government. Those people are seen as troublemakers and dissidents the regarded with suspicion and their ideas are easily dismissed Trend didn't want to be dismissed. But what's more he didn't act like a dissident he quotes a state newspaper as inspiration for his trip and declares his loyalty to China watching him. He seemed genuinely curious about the things he was witnessing and completely

1 (29m 37s):
sincere you drink ginger ale that conduit was right. Treasure in Hawaii - on Cambodia not worried

2 (29m 43s):
about his videos from Hong Kong reached hundreds of thousands of people on weibo the Chinese version of Twitter. As soon as I saw them. I wanted to talk to him though. I wasn't sure how hard he would be to reach because his last video hinted that he might be in

1 (29m 57s):
trouble. It's not from the airport

2 (30m 3s):
in it. He says the Chinese Bar Association the public Security Bureau and the ministry of Justice. Have all called him telling him to come back and stop his nonsense at one point. He holds up his law license saying he knows he may very well lose it after these three days in Hong

1 (30m 21s):
Kong.

2 (30m 23s):
Once he got home all his social media accounts were deleted and his videos were purged from the Chinese internet, but he wasn't hard to reach when I got his number picked up right away. He was a little flustered. He explained he was in the middle of a family situation his mom found out about Is reporting an adventure from a cousin's classmate freaked out and traveled hundreds of miles to his doorstep and moved in with him. He was funny

1 (30m 49s):
about it. Thank you so much Fuller Arabic and we've been living together for over 20 days and it's been kind of awkward. She follows me wherever I go just now when when I came down to take her calls, she ran after me the elevator. That's why I was kind of bummed when I answered

2 (31m 9s):
Trends mother was there to Save him from himself explained last he decided to go off once again and try something Reckless his mom kept watch on him 24/7 during the day. She did not let him out of her sight and night. They shared his twin

1 (31m 25s):
size bed. I'm uncomfortable that but there's there's no way around it. It's the only way she feels safe.

2 (31m 35s):
This all sounded very familiar to me. I have a mother like this, too. Trans 34 just a year younger than me. We both grew up as only children in 80s China. Our mothers have both expressed to us that if anything were to happen to us. They would lose the very will to live.

1 (31m 53s):
Hey, nice all just a dream since you know, the hardest thing to deal with is the effects and my family and loved

2 (32m 3s):
ones. That's what pulled Chen back from his trip to Hong Kong not because he was worried for him. Dolph but because of the risk of a complicating other people's lives Chen was safe. He told me but he'd been let go from his law firm and had been interrogated repeatedly on the day. He arrived back from Hong Kong. He'd been grilled for eight hours straight. He had to run through every detail of where he was

1 (32m 29s):
each day. I'll hold that do it. Then. They took me through re-education on the policies of the Communist Party. The government has a certain perspective about Hong Kong. They said because I was a lawyer I should support the Communist party and its decisions and I shouldn't go against them shouldn't go to certain places and so on and so on

2 (32m 47s):
then they tried another tack

1 (32m 49s):
then they took on a very parental tone. They said we're doing this because we care about you. Well, you're young guy with the bright future ahead of you. You've won somebody speech and debate prizes when you were young you've appeared in so many TV shows you've posted such great content and videos to social media. We think you're really talented. We're lucky to have such a great local lawyer won't you send out what's going on through the channel now, but then you went to Hong Kong and jeopardized all of

2 (33m 17s):
that and finally they drove it

1 (33m 20s):
home. Are you married? Look at you? You're over 30 and you haven't married yet. Your parents must be so anxious people need to prioritize families. You need to start a family and have kids. That's the only way to have a normal life. So don't let your parents worry. You need to hurry up and get that straightened out. So for a full day from 9 in the morning to 5:00 in the evening, it would just be that they were using different tactics like that to trying to tell me why going to Hong Kong was

2 (33m 51s):
wrong, but China wasn't that troubled by the questioning he'd been scrupulously neutral when he was in Hong Kong and he believed that would protect him and things would not get worse than

1 (34m 5s):
this. You're joking. So I think it's because I worked so hard to be neutral and to not support or lean towards one side of the other that that I was able to stay

2 (34m 20s):
safe. You did a wish so much food Ali Joshua. I asked him the question that had been on my mind all this time. Why did he do it? We'll see if I hop

1 (34m 33s):
it's just a passion. Sometimes people say, oh that was so brave if you've risked so much in the pursuit of Truth. Ruth I hate that this has nothing to do with bravery, it's just a hobby. I mean you have guys out there who like watches you have guys who like to fix up their cars people who like to hike or disci this is my hobby. My hobby is engaging with and pursuing the news. It's just something I'm interested in my heart.

2 (35m 1s):
I can almost see him shrugging on the other side of the line China sees himself as a curious guy collecting facts. He's not out to issue any kind. Preview it's not trying to provoke or antagonize the way he talks about his videos. It's like they're an intellectual exercise more than anything else. I'm surprised by how blase he is about the project given the cost to his regular life. I wonder if there's more to it if his composure so kind of armor. The one thing he can control

1 (35m 39s):
You always had your shirt since I should you are. So tiny aside her. Why don't she didn't do what I was hungover a

2 (35m 45s):
few months later in late January. I do a double take when I see a video that Shem posts from the train station in what if the city at the center of the Corona virus epidemic. Apparently he had grabbed his selfie stick and hopped on the last train in as the government put the city on lockdown. It's startling that he's there because access the city has been severely restricted and heavily enforced. There are very few new sources on the ground this time. No one dares to go outside and many shops are closed. Chinese is usual energetic High spirited self sneaking and jokes along with information. He's bewildered by all the elderly people he saw on his trip was still weren't wearing face masks.

2 (36m 31s):
Are they insane? He asks for the moment. We should force them to put our masks with the same energy. They exude when pushing us to get married he says, I watched the video on YouTube where Chen now has a channel and almost half a million followers. It's a website that's banned in China. You can only access it. If you hop the firewall which many people do some of them take his videos and spread them on Chinese social media.

2 (37m 15s):
Over the next few days China goes on a tear through the city to reports from the market where a number of early cases surfaced from a grocery store from a funeral parlor from the construction site for a hospital that's being built almost overnight the pelagic assign. You don't like fun things outside a hospital one night after hearing that the virus might be transmittable through the eyes. He filmed the video wearing a comically ill-fitting pair of swim. Chuckles

1 (37m 43s):
what a good play and you are trying to reach you all alone. Okay, Charlotte.

2 (37m 47s):
There's a video shot from the front seat of a car where he's chatting with the four people piled in with him asking if they have enough food stocked up at

1 (37m 55s):
home. So it's an entirely wrote predominantly young children.

2 (38m 2s):
The guy in the front has six months toward he'd been preparing a long time for food shortage though. He thought it would be from a trade war with America. Not a

1 (38m 11s):
virus. What's all

2 (38m 17s):
around the driver practicing his who hung dialect

1 (38m 20s):
Como vamos vamos, but he

2 (38m 34s):
also spends time doing long interviews with locals drawing out intimate details of people's lives and their honest appraisal. of the ongoing crisis One Night Train hosts a live stream interview with a middle-aged man who goes by the pseudonym arming bombings father had recently died. He tells Chen that his father had gone to the hospital for a routine physical in early January. He was in his 70s and healthy. He couldn't have known then that the hospital was also seeing patients infected with a mysterious pneumonia soon after his father developed a fever that wouldn't go away.

2 (39m 16s):
Arming details the Frantic search for treatment in the final weeks of his father's life how because there was an adequate equipment at the hospital. He had to spend a whole night pressing. His father's leaky oxygen mask in place. He talks about the time of sudden locked down at the hospital separated Panic family members from their loved ones for 48 hours. It's difficult to listen to arming described his father's last day was a whore what a kind of other

1 (39m 44s):
shingles are totally

2 (39m 48s):
taught us all what you're doing kind of her evil

1 (39m 51s):
darling. I saw with my own eyes as his heart rate dropped from 122 there. I held his hand and saw this happen. It was paying for it was in a deep coma already when they took off his oxygen. You mask his mouth was still open. But yesterday he suffocated to

2 (40m 13s):
death. Bsod humming says he doesn't understand why the government didn't start alerting people back in December 12 masks. He wonders why the state media didn't cover the outbreak more thoroughly. If measures had been taken earlier. He says my father wouldn't have

1 (40m 32s):
died.

2 (40m 41s):
A few days in the chance trip his own parents sent him a video. They're sitting on a couch looking like they're trying very hard not to mess up the complicated process of FaceTiming their son. He was raw.

1 (40m 55s):
Well, hello my children

2 (40m 58s):
to Allah we heard you went to hand. He says apparently Tran has yet again failed to inform his parents. He was going on a reporting trip and he

1 (41m 8s):
guy who goes home.

2 (41m 9s):
He's wrong his dad gruffly child's him then tells him to do a good job and not to make trouble while he's there his mom Pierce into the frame. Well, honey ba traditionally. Oh well now we support you. She said Yeah, but be safe. Okay. Definitely you get out. We aren't real cool for me and Dodge the help me. Oh, really? Trend continues making videos for the next few days and they're pretty Grim. He posts one from inside a hospital covertly filmed while pretending to call someone the patients and their family members are bundled up in heavy winter coats and blankets almost everyone is attached to IV tubes and oxygen bottles as his camera darts unsteadily through the room.

2 (42m 1s):
There's a suffocating

1 (42m 2s):
claustrophobia kind of the few hundred.

2 (42m 6s):
Another video 10 comes across an elderly patient and his wheelchair gray limb unmoving a relative leans on the chair holding his body up from Allah as he films turn realizes the patient is dead. The woman explains through her face mask that the ambulance arrived too late to save him. Now. She was trying to figure out what to do with the body. There's a clip of a medical worker in a hospital parking lot. She's squatting by a car crying in her phone a colleague tells her it's not that serious and she stands up shaking with anger.

2 (42m 53s):
I've been coughing for six days. She screams, don't you dare tell? It's not serious about that. amen For nearly a week Chen has been posting videos from a city teetering on the edge of a breakdown for nearly a week. He has watched from the sidelines observing listening studiously reserving judgment, but then on January 30th when he appears on screen, he isn't reporting instead.

1 (43m 38s):
I always your transition Center sure you essential to

2 (43m 42s):
so long hunched on a bed wearing a tank top with what looks like a bed sheet rock.

1 (43m 47s):
Round his shoulders

2 (43m 49s):
his face is pale and his hairs

1 (43m 51s):
uncombed Gym Leaders endorsed church and - what I wanted to do.

2 (43m 55s):
It's a 27 minute video much longer than his regular ones. He plays several recap Clips talks about what he's seen but he isn't his usual charismatic self. Something's off when he's talking about the shortage of virus test kits. He seeds with

1 (44m 13s):
contempt gentle verbal gonna But you know mio-chan. So horrible.

2 (44m 19s):
Did you hear that? There aren't enough test kits. He says he counts off all this functions. He's witnessed in the past week from the lack of Transport the shortage of supplies the piles of unsorted donations to the overworked

1 (44m 34s):
construction workers

2 (44m 36s):
the sheer volume of this functions dysfunctions that gesture at larger failures of the government overwhelms Chen as he speaks. A jittery energy courses through him he keeps trying to reset will himself back into a state of collected calm, but it's not working

1 (44m 57s):
so much helpful. Okay, let's keep going. I'll turn down challenges. Salute our what you wish and Casual kind of higher power. Sorry. My thoughts are really disorganized because I'm starting to feel afraid. Like I'm genuinely starting to feel

2 (45m 9s):
afraid. The ministry of justice is after him calling him. He tells us the police. To they've been questioning his parents suddenly the video takes a

1 (45m 20s):
turn the

2 (45m 22s):
terror in his eyes hardens into something like

1 (45m 25s):
rage. Well shot. Ha I am scared which camera should be well over sure phone with a fighting. The Syrian leader in front of me is the virus behind me is the power of China's law enforcement Federal which endless but I will persevere as long as I am still alive. I'm going to keep reporting. Which I'm going to tell people what I see and what I

2 (45m 47s):
hear. The last minute of the video feels like it's happening in slow motion Chen's face, which is small and delicate gross red swollen and crazed their excruciating seconds when his eyes fell up as he speaks through clenched teeth.

1 (46m 8s):
What do you know about? Koalas? I'll just say it harshly my view honest the whole time. Fuck you. I'm not even afraid of dying. Well, how do you go to find out? What do you think? afraid of you Chinese Communist

2 (46m 20s):
Party as the video ends. I realize I've stopped breathing Chen's gone way past the line that he fought so hard not to cross for as long as I've known him being a respectable journalist the kind. He aspired to be meant Gathering facts without taking a side but here in Wuhan the facts must have added up to a reality. So horrifying that her judgment was demanded. The next day Chen posts a video apologizing for losing his cool. He goes back to reporter mode standing outside the apartment of a family whose mother had died that morning to see how long it takes for the funeral home car to come.

2 (47m 4s):
He's there for an hour and never comes. He keeps reporting. A week later a video shows up on Chen's timeline. It's not him. It's his mother. Dr. Hall where she was who she the mama. She looks tired and strands of her permed hair have fallen out of a loose ponytail. Her message is short chain has gone missing bong bong, which I'll draw two shoe total Destruction machine can help me. Please help me find Chen she says, please help to that up our marshes.

2 (47m 46s):
Thank you. Trans been silent ever since then he'd given his social media passwords the friends in case he disappeared one friend says that the police told his parents he'd been put in a medical quarantine, but people in quarantine are usually allowed to keep their phones and to stay in touch with people outside. No one's heard from Chen. It's been 22 days. Chen who Tried So strenuously to avoid becoming a political dissident is now being treated like one. Of everything that's happened to him. I suspect what would pain Chen the most is the site of his mother looking exhausted and Afraid on video pleading for his return

1 (48m 43s):
Jae young fan. She's staff writer at the New Yorker x-ray muscle of cats. You know, it was comforting that in these dark and divisive times. There was one thing that a fractured America could agree on this past year the movie Cats based on the Andrew Lloyd Webber Musical and what everybody agreed was that it was trash variety called it quote a half digested hairball of a movie collider said it quote always feels like it's two seconds away from turning into a furry orgy and a dumpster. One of The Producers on our program leading cities found one of the very few people who felt differently than every living reviewer everywhere somebody who loved the film which actually kind of became a problem in her house.

1 (49m 29s):
Here's Lena

2 (49m 30s):
one of the many problems with cats. It doesn't really have a plot but to EJ Dixon it all makes perfect sense bunch of cats known as jellicle cats are auditioning to be the cat selected in sort of this. Like cultic ritual to ascend to the heaviside layer and be reborn and so the show is just cats auditioning one after the other to be the one selected they auditioned to die is basically what they do everything about the film that alienated people the weird CGI the clumsy writing the bizarre choreography Jason Derulo, none of it alienates EJ, which honestly doesn't surprise me.

2 (50m 15s):
I've known ej4 years. She's a reporter. She's always struck me as dogged someone who perpetually Bears witness to the things other people don't really want to take seriously like things that are widely misunderstood or are understood differently. Like I always want to know like what's the other story here with cats? It was very obvious from the second that I saw it like this is gonna be like everybody's going to call this the worst movie ever made, but it's also just this very Earnest this this sort of very simple earn a story about The importance of inclusion right the cats learn a lesson about inclusion

1 (50m 52s):
left that out.

2 (50m 55s):
Do you think you're being a contrarian know? I'm telling you. It's the same reason why I like musicals in general because it's a way for me to sort of access the parts of myself that aren't sort of like coated and cynicism and aren't automatically like skeptical of everything and questioning everything. Like it's just it's one of the ways that I can sort of experience the most Earnest parts of myself, I guess and when she saw cats, that's how she responded to it earnestly. She couldn't get it out of her head the day after I saw cats my eye. My husband was taking a shower and I went in and I was like, I just need to talk to you about this.

2 (51m 35s):
Sorry while he's in the shower you go into the bathroom and start talking about cats. Yes. I mean, I was just talking at him about cats. I was just like and then this is what the CGI look like and here's what old Deuteronomy didn't oh my God. They had they had Ian McKellen like lapping up milk and like the end Judi Dench breaks the fourth wall and she says a cat is not a dog and I just need to tell you this because I don't know how to make sense of it. How often were you talking about? It constantly constantly. How often was she talking about it

1 (52m 12s):
every day like a lot of the

2 (52m 15s):
time this is EJ's husband Alex. He looks like Greg Kinnear in the movies were Greg Kinnear is the good guy also, he looks really tired. But he's kind

1 (52m 25s):
maybe after the first day or two. It just like it became clear that this was in new obsession and it was here to stay and how did that make you feel sorry for myself? Cough

2 (52m 38s):
what are the kinds of things that she talks to you about when she talks about this

1 (52m 41s):
movie? Things about the producers that I can't even remember like how much money Andrew Lloyd Webber made and how much more wealthy he is than Paul McCartney, which kind of astounded me.

2 (52m 56s):
Is this the kind of thing where like you immediately know you didn't care about any of this.

1 (53m 1s):
Yeah. Yeah,

2 (53m 2s):
but was there a period of time where you were humoring

1 (53m 4s):
her? I'll for sure that would definitely try to change the topic play any other music that I could think of

2 (53m 13s):
play their music because EJ started playing the film soundtrack for the only other member of the family their son Solomon a three-year-old and Solomon loved it loved it immediately and how often do you guys listen to it? Almost every day. Alex basically went from living. Life blissfully free of cats to living in and all cats household all the time.

1 (53m 36s):
He'll just come up to me and say Dad. I want jellicoe cats or I want Rumble teaser something like that. And now I have to know what that

2 (53m 46s):
means. Alex could not understand his wife's love of this movie which everyone else on the planet seem to love to hate days went by then weeks. He definitely was like, I can't hear about this anymore like and the he has since said multiple times. Times that it's ruined his life if Alex didn't want to talk about cats anymore. EJ wanted to be a good partner. So she went somewhere else. She announced the new plan in a tweet quote. My husband couldn't listen to me talking about it anymore. So I'm doing a podcast about the movie musical Cats. It's called pod cats.

2 (54m 26s):
Are you blind when you're born? Can you see in the dark? Would you she co-hosts it with her friend?

1 (54m 30s):
And Ron, can you say of your bite that it's worse than your bark if you were and you are you're the target audience for podcasts weird. It's pretty yeah, it's kind of deeply embarrassing that like people right, you know are going to listen to the podcast and be like, who is this woman when you say podcast, I mean This American Life both. Yeah primarily podcasts podcasts the podcast. We're also going to answer all of your burning questions. About cats including but not limited

2 (55m 3s):
to what's a jellicle cat. What's a jellicle cats cats cats cats cats cats cats cats. Is it true that you told EJ that cats is ruining your

1 (55m 17s):
life. I've probably said that like like we get so little time to ourselves now like we have a three-year-old and we both work crazy hours like this is The way that you choose to spend your free time like by going to see cats and and making a podcast about it. Like how can you make that your free time?

2 (55m 41s):
So Alex is a want to talk to his wife about this thing that she loves which I get except for one thing. He's passing all of this judgment, but he's never actually seen the movie. So I set it up for all three of us to go see Cats of the one theater within 234 miles still playing it real excited. Through this we got to the theater just after 9:00 and take three seats in the back. EJ and Alex next to each other. I'm next to Alex. I figured the theater would be empty. It wasn't all three of us. Take turns remarking on the surprisingly good turnout which including us totals

1 (56m 18s):
9, they're definitely more people than I thought there would be

2 (56m 23s):
in front of us are four teenagers latched in their seats They're laughing throughout the previews which makes me think they're probably stoned EJ. System two people are not here for the right reasons. The film opens with a burlap sack tossed in an Alleyway, which obviously is full of Alley Cats dozens of them Circle the disposed sack hissing also doing pirouettes and just to be clear by cats. I mean human adult's with fur digitally attached their skin one of them rips open the still moving bag allowing whatever is inside of it to break free and what it is inside of this bag.

2 (57m 3s):
Also a cat. Oh, no.

1 (57m 6s):
Look

2 (57m 6s):
what the Cat Dragged In look I'm not going to pretend cats isn't a train wreck Alex covers his mouth with his hand. Like he's hiding his abject horror, but then about 15 minutes into the movie Rebel Wilson starts singing and dancing with a parade of cockroaches. I realized something he died and Alex are on a really good date. For most of the movie they hold hands Alex kisses EJ's Palm three times which coincides with the number of times she calls something the best part of the movie This is the best part.

2 (57m 49s):
I think what makes this a good date has nothing to do with what they're doing. But instead with the fact that they're doing it together when Judi Dench is old Deuteronomy shows up. Who by the way is for some reason wearing a fur coat a top her literal coat of fur. Looks hums along with the rest of the cats who are there to welcome her because of course, he knows the music. It's been playing in his house non-stop for months. The movie ends just before midnight. EJ says they need to get home back to their son and said her we split a cab and I asked Alex how he liked this movie that to quote him has ruined his life.

1 (58m 32s):
I liked it a lot more than I thought I would actually

2 (58m 36s):
and why

1 (58m 37s):
I liked what's his name? EJ the railway cat

2 (58m 42s):
invasion.

1 (58m 44s):
Killed it.

2 (58m 45s):
So something you told me before we went in is that part of you really does think that AJ's kind of just being contrary and liking this movie and I'm wondering if you still feel that way. Do you still feel that way?

1 (58m 58s):
No, I don't. I don't feel that way. I think I kind of have an understanding I could just I can see how despite it being a horrible movie you can like. Genuinely, appreciate it. It just kind of feels good. It's kind of like joyous. I don't know and I'm kind of yeah, I'm eager to unpack this with you more each

2 (59m 23s):
a I think you're only going to feel that way for a limited period of

1 (59m 26s):
time. That's probably true.

2 (59m 30s):
When movies end the lights are still dim the credits roll. There's this moment. It's just before people start getting up where everyone's quiet. It's like waking up from a dream and then suddenly you check back into the reality of your own life. I figure that's the moment. I'm catching Alex in the lights. Haven't totally gone back up yet. This is not how he really feels but then a week later. I got a text from EJ. She says that last night while she and her son were listening to cats Alex felt it along with the same song. I'd caught him humming to at the movies. I think he's turned she says

1 (1h 0m 17s):
we damn is cities is one of the producers of our show.

2 (1h 0m 26s):
Don't tell me not to live just sit and putter. Life's candy and the sons of baller butter don't bring around a cloud to Rain on My Parade

1 (1h 0m 36s):
or program has produced this week by cleaning the seats these people who put together today's show includes on a baker manual buried in Chiba snow-gil Damien. Gravestone Nelson Catherine. Raimondo, Nadia Raymond Robbins seminar was a ship Christopher. So Tagamet tyranny and Julie Whitaker managing editors, Diane whoo, our executive editors David kestenbaum special. Thanks today to Emily Lou young Joe Robert do John Russell Martin and Heaven / Hani. I shall begin with Michael showman the book that he wrote about Meryl Streep is called her again. If you buy it on Amazon, don't forget to write a review. I website This American Life dot-org we can listen to our Archive of nearly 700 shows for absolutely free This American Life is Liberty public radio stations by PRX the public radio exchange sport for This American Life comes from indeed for this test skills built for employers who want to see a deeper sense of the person behind the resume or in more at indeed.com.

1 (1h 1m 29s):
Hi. Our thanks as always for programs co-founder. Mr. Tory amount of Tia, you know, whenever he comes to New York City. There's only one Delhi that he wants to go to for corned beef. Yeah. It's cats cats cats cats cats. Yes. I'll have what? He's having. I'm Ira Glass back next week with more stories of This American Life. Next week on the podcast of This American Life kids have a hard time talking about death. But sometimes they have to they have to deal with it.

1 (1h 2m 11s):
Who did you have

2 (1h 2m 12s):
died to guinea pigs a dog to cats and my dad

1 (1h 2m 22s):
teaching kids to deal with loss huge loss next week on the podcast or your local public radio station.