2 (1s):
Support for This American Life comes from the Capital One Walmart Rewards Card earn unlimited 5% back at Walmart online 2% in Walmart stores at restaurants and on travel and 1% everywhere else when you want all that you need the Capital One Walmart Rewards Card what's in your wallet terms and exclusions apply? I got my teeth cleaned this week that I was asking the hygienist how it was going with the global pandemic and all she was like just yesterday somebody stole to face Mass on the counter right there. It says like do you know who and she was like, yeah. She knew exactly who because she caught her red-handed and the woman wasn't sorry at all wouldn't give the mass back.

2 (45s):
I mean, there's a national shortage but still. I heard about this woman Kim who decided a couple weeks ago to buy some face mask for her. Mom. Her mom works in a home caring for the elderly and face Master recommended for people like her mom came when shopping for some CB s sold out Rite Aid sold out Target sold out. It's called pharmacies around town in northern, California where she goes no luck until you reach this one woman. She said they were sold out and then she paused for a second and then she said well I have a stash at home. I might be able to sell you some masks. Let me call you after work.

2 (1m 26s):
Wait until Suddenly It's like you're doing a new legal drug dealer or something over kind of felt that way so I called her after work. We set up a time and place and we met the following day in front of the Safeway next to the glacier water bottle vending machine and wait. That's what she said. She said, okay, we're going to meet in front of the safe. Way in front of the glacier bottle vending machine. Yes. I found her easily gave her the cash got the box said thank you. I describe the actual physical transaction. Now when you handed her the cash was it a kind of like your hand was over top of the cash.

2 (2m 8s):
So someone else couldn't see it and she pound it away from you pretty much. Yeah woman asks for a hundred dollars for ten masks. Kim 270 regular price will be $1 per mask, maybe two and she told me that she had two boxes left. So if I wanted more I could come back. I work at a local co-op here in Seattle Washington called PCC Community Markets. Just a little bit different clientele.

2 (2m 49s):
They're kind of like a Whole Foods clientele a little more particular Cameron works in the produce department and he's cashier Washington State you may know has more cases than any other state most of them around Seattle. So the Cub started selling out of toilet paper beans flour hand sanitizer when this first hit the news it's been pretty tense very just on edge. A lot of people are upset. That we don't have hand sanitizer wipes for our carts. I've had a few customers vocally yell at me because of how I was touching their cans when I was checking them out at the register like this one guy who had a lot of cans. It was a kombucha energy drink.

2 (3m 31s):
I can't remember the exact brand. He probably had like a couple dozen some of them had fallen over and I'd grab the top of the can versus the bottom of the can when scanning it. Which I mean I can understand but at the same time I probably wasn't the first person to touch that can so what they say to you. He just wanted me to be aware of what I was doing. It took me a minute to understand what he was saying because he was so frustrated. I don't remember the exact words but paraphrasing he was asking me in a pretty passive aggressive way why I'm touching at the Cannes the way I am.

2 (4m 12s):
Somehow that's exactly what I would have pictured it. I'm picturing sort of Fred Armisen and Portlandia you're so it's gross right now. He was wearing glasses for sure in some sort of police, but he was just telling me how I need to be touching the cans without touching the tops and yeah. Some people have more to fear than others right now. I think like Jasmine Reese. She works at Los Angeles airport LAX cleaning out planes after they land including International fights coronavirus became a very real thing to work every month ago when a plane arrived from Hong Kong, you know, as I'm getting on the plane and I see first class business I'm walking down and I'm seeing like co-workers will face mask and I'm like what's going on?

2 (5m 6s):
Hello, because of the virus is a virus and you have to clean this claim. This is one of the planes that you know call like and I'm like, oh, let me go downstairs and go get me one because keep in mind that I'm five months pregnant and did they have face masks? We were able to get one. Yeah, but we don't have next day and we work every day, but we are kind of loan supplies. So meaning that we may not have face masks and day. We may not have love this day. There have been days since the virus when you went in and you had to clean a plane without a mask. Yeah this place there's a day that we go.

2 (5m 50s):
When job the crew does they reach deep into garbage bags on the plane and pull out the garbage by hand? Jasmine Queens American Airlines planes she works her contractor called jet stream ground Services. A number of Jetstream employees have been quoted in the Press saying the same thing about gloves and masks that Janine says we reached out to a spokesperson for the company Eric Rose. He said in emails quote. We are at a loss as to why the employees are making these false claims Jetstream ground Services has always had an abundant supply of safety equipment for all employees to fulfill their daily assignments and quote just this week the service employees International Union started. Distributing masks and gloves to workers like Jasmine and LAX saying jet stream has not properly provided them the day I talk to Jasmine to people who work at LAX.

2 (6m 37s):
How did that point tested positive for the virus Jasmine thought one of them work to Terminal 7. So if you have a person all the way down is that everything that I see and the announcer saying a person I think some Terminal 5 will see we're at four. So we're right next to a person that you know could have came to the food court at our terminal and you know, you just never know. Do you think it's only a matter of time before somebody work with get sick? Yeah, you should how is going in this on the news and spring so why I wouldn't be surprised it too much if the stock opens. Hey, somebody is here within the next week or two.

1 (7m 14s):
I could be walking around with a

2 (7m 16s):
co-worker right now and they probably have it. You don't know that they have a so when you're cleaning planes, is this what you're thinking about all the time. If this internationally, yes, I'm thinking like why you have to please play and I'm trying not to stress on it too hard, and I can't totally tell. How worried are you? To I'm very work, but I still got it working it mama, you

1 (7m 42s):
know, I got to survive. Yes, but I am very worried about it

2 (7m 46s):
certainly because I am pregnant. Right. Now as I'm saying these words to You dozens of people have already died in our country, but somehow it still feels like the Calm before the storm. But now it's like streets rule emptier store shelves are empty. ER some people working from home some schools closed other schools. Everybody's waiting to hear if they're going to be caught off things are not as awful as they're certainly going to get. So we're all waiting for the good Awful but no idea of how awful that's going to be. If I had to say what this feels like I think to me with this feels like is the only place I've ever had. Like this is sort of like waiting for medical results trying to find out how bad things are going to be but like on a global scale.

2 (8m 30s):
Going to be documenting more about coronavirus and upcoming shows. But for today's show we thought we would stick to this one part of things this low hum of Menace here and I staff we were talking about when else did somebody actually feel that feeling. We found some examples of that share with you and that's going to be our show today WBZ Chicago. It's This American Life. I'm Ira Glass stay with us. Like wine do You Hear What I Hear. So this first story is about a recording that captures this exact thing today's program is about that low hum of Menace.

2 (9m 14s):
The recording was made secretly by what I'm trying to catch a man who'd been harassing her. It's a good listener is the story is about sexual harassment. So there's some sexual content to this one thing I have to say that's interesting about this recording and the man's behavior and it is how understated it is doesn't raise his voice. He doesn't overtly threatened. He just gets his point across. Also interesting the woman who made the recording her name is Kristen sellers years later today when she hears this recording she hears it very differently than she did at the time. It raises a whole set of questions. She didn't think about much back then reporter Jessica Lawson hop met Kristen years ago putting together a story for the BBC.

2 (9m 54s):
Here's Jessica the recordings just 10 minutes long. The man Christian was trying to record was her home inspector. This is back in 2012. At the time she didn't have a cell phone. So she borrowed one from her friend. Can you just sort of like explain how you made this recording in the first place? Okay, I had on

1 (10m 13s):
like some, you know around the house clean up clothing like baggy clothing, you know, so I had a phone and I took the phone and I put it in my shirt put it in. I think I was like my bra strap or something sitting some type of way.

2 (10m 29s):
I'd because of the phone under the shirt secured by a bra strap. Recording is hard to hear hiding the phone there. Kristin's nervous. She gives herself a task raking the yard as she waits for Eric Pender to pull up he is who she wants to record. She's kind of afraid of him, but she's focused on all the things anyone making this kind of recording might be she wants to stay calm not look suspicious act natural and most importantly she wants to get audio of Eric Pender harassing her so she has undeniable proof Eric pain. Has red truck pulls up and parks on the street. There was a long

1 (11m 6s):
driveway. So I'm in a like a wooded area ain't no whole bunch of houses near me and nothing and he was walking up but I was still raking, you know, like, you know doing both and he was coming up towards me and I was kind of trying to turn the other way. That's when he kind of got real close and he was like, you know, I'm

2 (11m 32s):
be careful. I'm not worried about

1 (11m 34s):
me somebody you think that you can trust them. I'm just letting you know what the proper control if there's somebody you think you can

2 (11m 42s):
trust that. I'm just letting you know, you probably can't trust them you

1 (11m 45s):
basically saying I need a

2 (11m 47s):
watch what I'm saying to people and how I'm talking to him and you

1 (11m 50s):
know, I'm like what am I saying to people, you know trying to put the face on of you

2 (11m 56s):
know, I'm not saying nothing to nobody like what are you talking about? You know how far away is he from you when he's probably I like how me and her is right now my producer Robin she's about two feet away. This recording is the fourth time Kristen had spoken to Eric

1 (12m 12s):
Pender ever. I'm super nervous is nothing. I like I'm so nervous at that point. Like I was shaking and I couldn't believe he didn't see it. Like it was like a tremble in me that I just was trying to hold on to the rake is hard as I could so that he wouldn't see the trembling me, you know what I mean? What are you making eye contact with him? I really was like, you know down to the right down to the right. It was like if I was somebody else the way I was raking in the same spot like I would have been like what is she doing? You know, but I was sitting in the same spot because I was scared to move.

1 (12m 54s):
You know, I was just nervous, you know,

2 (12m 56s):
the house Eric Pender was coming to inspect wasn't Christians yet. It was a house. She was hoping to move into with her three kids. The only thing she needed to move in was his signature on a form. She needs this house just two weeks earlier. Kristen was staying at her mom's just home from a prison stint. She served six months for a probation violation. She was looking for a house for her and her kids if you needed a Section 8 voucher in Laurinburg a small town in a rural area of North Carolina. One of the only places to go was a nonprofit called for County Community Services. The problem was the only house they were willing to give her was a house. No one else seemed to want Kristen was Like okay.

2 (13m 39s):
I'm not picky they had a house and I said that house in particular was abandoned and if I was to clean the house out that I will go

1 (13m 50s):
ahead and be able to move in the house and wouldn't have to pay a deposit. They actually called the landlord and they will pay the first month's rent. I think that's how I went. Yeah,

2 (13m 59s):
so if she cleaned the house, it'd be hers, but cleaning a house she'd come to learn was a big project. It was a three bedroom house with a dining room. And Dan and all the rooms were filled with junk. It smelled awful. There were roaches lots of poop.

1 (14m 15s):
The neighbors had told me that's why I was so many feces and stuff in the house because they had left the dog. And then finally, I guess the dog either died or left and they got it out. I don't know but by the time I got there I just was there with the leftover, you know the house being full of clothing and food in the cabinet's it was all the stuff. So it was just horrible.

2 (14m 34s):
She cleaned and cleaned. She had a list of tasks that you've been given. From the nonprofit it took weight like maybe

1 (14m 42s):
two weeks or so three weeks maybe even more than that. I can't even really remember. Remember. I just remember going a lot of times doing it. Well, I called down there and they sent the inspector out. I thought you know, I had everything done. That was my duty to

2 (14m 56s):
do Eric Pender showed up. He was the housing inspector for for County. He's a tall man older light-skinned black man with a taste for cowboy boots and belts. Khakis. Penner was there to review Kristen's work. If she passes inspection, she get approved to move in any way he was like you need to have a

1 (15m 18s):
man to help you why you don't have a boyfriend and all this and then I'm like, you know, I don't have one because I'm just coming home from prison. I'm trying to get on my feet for my kids. I'm trying to explain to him and he was like, but you have if you had a man here a man could get this stuff done and I'm like, I did it. What are you asking me to do

2 (15m 36s):
this talk of men quickly turned. Explicit Kristen said he asked her about her sex life if she performed oral sex before

1 (15m 44s):
now was I what you know, I was totally thrown and he was like, you know because you have had men to take you out to dinner and stuff and then I had told him, you know, yeah I have and he was like, well you two having people take you out to dinner. That's what they were paying you for they were paying you for sex. He said let's say your rent $600 times 12

2 (16m 3s):
months. Her rent was $600 a month. So to be clear he was laying. Out her exact situation he proposed sex with him as a kind of home insurance policy that Pender valued at over a Year's worth of rent

1 (16m 18s):
and he was like, that's way over $6,000. My signature is of 6,000 miles. So you'll be having sex for six, you know, basically, that's he said it he mapped it out just like

2 (16m 27s):
that. Did he even acknowledge that you had cleaned the whole house? He

1 (16m 31s):
didn't he didn't want to he wanted to let me know that I still have stuff

2 (16m 35s):
to do. I'm stuck cuz I'm no I'm in here with this man. And I'm like, you know, he got he can sign this paper and he cannot sign this paper. You can say whatever and my word against him, you know is what so at this time. I'm like, you know, who what do I do? I just don't know. So I just knew to try to keep a distance between me him as much as I could tender toward the house with Kristen following. Find him he starts pointing to stuff that wasn't Christians responsibility to clean up that wasn't on the list that the nonprofit gave her broken mirrors a broken toilet.

2 (17m 19s):
That's what he was telling me the toilet needed

1 (17m 20s):
fixing and he kind of pulled me by the hip in the bathroom and he pulled himself out in front of me. What? Yeah, he pulled himself out and I look down and I looked up and I kind of like, you know, I need to get out find a way out. So I kind of got out of

2 (17m 36s):
the way. He's blocking you he's

1 (17m 38s):
The bathroom door and you're in the bathroom and can't get out and he exposes himself to you. Definitely he was like, you know, dude, you know, I'm saying, you know, if you want this house, you know, what you got to do, you know, that's what he was saying that and that

2 (17m 50s):
point she says the only thing she was sure of was that there was no way she was going to do what he wanted ever. She managed to push past him gets him to leave. He doesn't sign the form. it was overwhelming I wrote now because I felt

1 (18m 6s):
like when you in situations, like I was in you feel kind of like you got no self-esteem already, you know,

2 (18m 17s):
and so I didn't know what that situation it's just kind of like

1 (18m 22s):
you just feel like you know, that's

2 (18m 24s):
what he look at you like this. Is that how men look at you like, you know, and so

1 (18m 32s):
it's just like, you know, I'm a say whatever the

2 (18m 34s):
heck is she is who she is. Kristen did not go to the police. She thought it was her word against his and that because of her record. She wouldn't be believed. She thought she needed to bolster her claim in some way collect some evidence or something. She called a private investigator wondering if they could surveil him but they were too expensive the private investigator. She talked to gave her this tip North Carolina is a one-party consent State meaning it was legal for Kristen to record him try to get proof without his permission.

1 (19m 14s):
But your friends know enough to hurt ya

2 (19m 17s):
which brings us back to the recording Kristen made on that Sunday in April back in 2012. Pender's coming back ostensibly to inspect the house and he still hasn't signed the form. She needs to move in. Remember Kristen is trying to record Pender propositioning her but when he walks up he's not doing that. He starts talking about his job at the housing office how he is in charge of handling

1 (19m 42s):
complaints. You know any time I deal with a complaint the complaints come to me all the

2 (19m 47s):
time. He says any time I deal with a complaint he's talking to you about a complaint. Do you know what he's talking about?

1 (19m 52s):
He was saying that somebody told his boss that I said that he was, you know, making advances in bothering me,

2 (20m 1s):
but she had she'd only told a few people in that private investigator about Pender. Confused Kristin tries to play it

1 (20m 8s):
off you sure I'm positive. They were born. I was kind of see that now just don't Stir It Up don't say no. No. I'm just telling you miss so much as in your business

2 (20m 21s):
the sum of all this for Kristen. She's realizing that telling her housing office about Pender filing an actual complaint is out of the question

1 (20m 30s):
instead of calling me they call him and tell him everything instead of calling me saying it did. Is this happening to you? So at that point, you know, you you know that nobody on your side and help the people that is close to you know that you got a task ahead of you. I don't see

2 (20m 50s):
him. It's a weird recording because Eric Pender says things that sound simultaneously like a threat and like they could be the advice of someone who's protective and caring Pender had what Kristen considered a supreme confidence where he could finish? Words make insults sound flowery and innocent. It's like to me he was just trying to

1 (21m 11s):
make me his friend and I was trying to keep myself afloat in the conversation while I was feeling like I was drowning at the same time, you know,

2 (21m 19s):
for example as she's raking Pender starts lecturing her about her kids.

1 (21m 23s):
You really should have any kids over here too. Yeah, but they're not here.

2 (22m 0s):
This is not what she was hoping to get

1 (22m 2s):
recorded. I didn't think none of this was gonna work. Like I'm used to him comments and you know said you going to have sex you're gonna do this, you know being very blunt on what he wants and what he wanted and when I'm going to do it and what I get for doing it when I'm recording something that's like, you know all over the place. So I'm like, oh this is not going to work. So I that's that's how I felt at that point,

2 (22m 27s):
but also all that advice about how she should raise their kids. He's arrogant and

1 (22m 32s):
he's like I'm beneath, you know, And his mind he could say, well he want to say to me no matter who was involved. You're beneath me. So I know how to raise your children. Now, you're beneath me so I know how to get you in this house and you're beneath me so I can help you. You know, like everything was like talking down making me feel like I'm not enough or I'm not a good enough mom or you know, everything was to try to belittle belittle me and to

2 (22m 59s):
nothing. Pender keeps talking but not about home inspection. He still doesn't explicitly proposition Kristen like the first time that they met he suggested though. He mentions for no apparent reason how women need to stop acting like, they don't know how they got

1 (23m 21s):
pregnant. They get bring that damn. I mean don't be mad at the

2 (23m 28s):
world because further he reminds Kristen how he came I'm by her house and quote asked her for some

1 (23m 36s):
anyway. This is my first second time. You see me. I saw it. What if I was gay, you know, I'm saying like so what like like why would you use that against me? You know what I'm saying? But he would do that anything that he felt could be a Target to hit you in a way to make you feel like I gotta prove him. I'm not this and he will use that. Did you feel like he was trying to make you angry? Yeah, right. Yeah. I did. I felt like he was like trying to make me give into say, you know, no, I'm not like that out.

1 (24m 19s):
I'll do it to prove it or something.

2 (24m 21s):
He hints at making a deal with her to help her with her housing but doesn't spell out what she'd have to do in that deal. Kristen keeps recording he reminds her that he has a lot of authority and can help her.

1 (24m 34s):
I do have some discrepancy on how I'm force and force the rules, you know, it might be a situation of power might be off playing you know, you got 48 Hours. Sometimes I'm gonna come in on three days instead of two. Don't give you extra day to get your power back on so forth and so on I asked back to what I know the previous conversations when he do ask for sex and all that. That's how he gets to that is I'm helping you. So let me tell you what you got to do to get the help so that tone is what I was used to so when he got to that calm place, I'm like, here we go, you know finna try to make me feel like he's helping me because if I have sex I have somewhere to stay for.

1 (25m 19s):
Sex forever, you know and like he's getting ready to go on today. You know, I want you to do such and such I did that point. I really knew like okay it's coming

2 (25m 29s):
but it doesn't come Pender instead brings up the most on topic housing inspection related subject of his visit the barn there's this little Barn type shed and Kristen's backyard. It's filled with garbage and Kristen had put snake repellent around the outside of it to keep snakes if there were any Wrapped inside Pender says I get that Barn cleaned

1 (25m 53s):
out. He said that he was a he

2 (26m 1s):
starts listing all the things she could use the barn for card games and escape from the kids. He's suddenly singly focused on the potential greatness run down Barn,

1 (26m 13s):
you know, you can keep stuff in there for you and your friends won't have a card game away from the kids. Barney see how the window in the barn and so we can go in the barn and you can have it this here, you know, it was just like more he was describing the closer. He was trying to get to the barn like he was trying to find a way to get me there and my do we outside so I guess him trying to do anything. That would probably be the best place for him

2 (26m 40s):
Pender keeps insisting. She go in the barn with him. Kristen keeps avoiding it. She won't go She finally says if I see a snake in there, I'm going to pass out and

1 (26m 50s):
die. Definitely, you know it would have been okay for him and his mind that she's saying okay, you know, and I know I wasn't going there so

2 (27m 14s):
it seems to work Pender backs off slowly. They have one less back and forth. He starts to walk away says alright, then we straight. Finally, he says the most damning thing. He said in the whole reporting.

1 (27m 33s):
We almost saw you take care of me later.

2 (27m 35s):
Well, we almost straight you'll take care of me later on Kristen stopped recording she worried immediately that what you'd recorded wasn't enough and if it wasn't that she was stuck right where she started her house hanging in the lurch. She felt desperate.

1 (27m 52s):
How's this going to be over when it's going to be over him saying I still got to take care of him. It was just like so this ain't gonna be over until I do it and his head is that's what it is, you know, so I have sex with them. This isn't over it's not over. And in my mind, I knew that he had to come and expect every year. Every year and him having expect every year that means I had to have some kind of sexual thing with him for him to approve it every year. I just was praying that that recording was enough proof that he's been doing it, you know, so I just didn't know if I had enough proof.

2 (28m 43s):
This recording kicked off a pretty remarkable series of events Kristen use it to file a criminal charge against Eric Pender. He was convicted of simple assault but appealed and got the case dropped. She also played the recording for a young lawyer who didn't even have an office yet or know for sure if what Kristen was describing was illegal, but he listened to the tape believed her and took the case. Christian's lawyer filed a civil suit and a local paper ran a story about it more and more women started coming forward with stories about Eric Pender and Pender's boss. John Wesley who was also asking for sex in exchange for vouchers the case Grew From three women to 8 and then to sixteen six of the women went along with the men's sexual demands one of them lost her housing anyway, The lawsuit ran on four years which became its own form of punishment for Kristen because Eric Penner was still her home inspector.

2 (29m 40s):
He continued working for them at one point. He tried to cancel Kristen voucher her lawyers blocked it. The case was moved from state to Federal Court Department of Justice lawyers got involved. Kristin got called all the names I are felon opportunist once in a grocery store a woman Kristen barely knew approached her.

1 (30m 3s):
She really felt a demand on telling me you're messing this up, you know you messing up how we get our vouchers, you know, and that's what she was saying. We like not just me a bunch of us kind of Said when she said this to me it just kind of hit me on how they were able to do it for so long how he was so like, you know confident because look at how this woman

2 (30m 31s):
feel. There aren't any good numbers on how common sexual harassment is and housing situations. No one seems to be tracking it. In July of 2015 three years after Kristin made the recording the federal lawsuit ended for County settled with the Department of Justice Pender was Lee were banned from working in Section 8 or renting or managing any property permanently neither admitted to any wrongdoing both denied all the allegations against them. I reached out to Pender and Wesley for this story Wesley didn't call me back. I called Pender's lawyer tried previous addresses called old numbers and his ex-wife. No one knew where he was.

2 (31m 12s):
for County didn't respond either they've changed their name since the women were awarded a 2.7 million dollar settlement the largest sexual harassment in housing settlement in US history at the time. Ultimately. The number of victims in the suit was 87. Christian's recording was evidence of Pender's Behavior, but now years later when she listens to it. She hears it very differently than she did at the time which he hears is herself who she is in that recording. She hears how small she becomes around him and she thought about the recording a lot when I first called her in November to see if she might be willing to talk to me for this story almost immediately.

2 (32m 1s):
She said, I'm glad you brought this up. She told me she'd never through with anyone the way she's always wanted to I visited Kristen in the house. She moved to right after the case settled a three-bedroom in Greensboro where she lives with her two youngest kids. I played the recording for her. She hadn't heard it in years

1 (32m 21s):
even listen to it. I'm like how you could have said this you could have said that you could have did this. I beat myself up for some of that, you know, yeah because I feel like I could have, you know argued more or something, you know, and and I know that it did have a good outcome, but I just feel like I would have told him, you know more sometimes. I wish I would have just told him off. I do beat myself up for some some little things

2 (32m 48s):
the way she dealt with Eric Pender. She says is something lots of women do with men particularly men who have power over them. She laughs to flex pretends tells half-truths do meteors changes the subject bites. Our tongue smiles too much agrees too much hides. Her anger hides all her emotions. Buries her personality. It's so familiar. I asked every woman I talked to in this lawsuit about it and then nearly every woman in my life about it as we talked Kristen and I started calling it The tactic

1 (33m 24s):
the tactic come and place one is somebody who has

2 (33m 27s):
control or somebody who's I have to see on a regular basis and they're affecting my livelihood because you're like my dream was on the other side of that person. You know what I'm saying my life.

1 (33m 39s):
Hood is on the other side of this person. So if I try to tear this

2 (33m 43s):
person down then they can stop me from reaching it. You know what I'm saying? When do you when do you think you learned it? Like, when do you think you what's the first memory you have of trying to use this as a strategy to get through a difficult situation. I had a certain family member they would do things to hurt me, but I didn't want him to hurt me. So I knew I got to be in the same house. For him it's for a certain period of time this family member abuse Kristen both physically and sexually until she was about 12 years old as a kid. She never told anybody. Being an income families a lot of people shelter these things because it would cause more pain to the family.

2 (34m 31s):
We already struggling we already going through this. We already going through that. So why would I put more on the family? You know what I mean? Then you also have the fact that you know, that's it's embarrassing and would have no no matter believe you right now. You got all Those things so it's just it seems better to shelter it. She didn't start using these tactics with Eric Pender and she didn't stop using them after him in the years since the lawsuit. Kristen said she found herself in a job where again someone in a higher position than her started making sexually explicit comments to her.

2 (35m 12s):
She was afraid to offend him. So she used the tactic made up an excuse to redirect him. She told him I'm not for you. I'm too crazy and It's steer clear of me. Not long after Kristin says the guy walked right up behind her and grabbed her breast. Christian quit that day walked out never went back. She told me I can't file a federal lawsuit every time something like this happens to me. So like I said Christians thought about the recording with Eric Pender and how she handled him in the recording a lot over the years.

2 (35m 53s):
I asked her after all this if you could go back to when you first met Eric Pender, what do you wish you'd have said? Oh, yeah now on that

1 (36m 1s):
note on that now. Yeah, I just I wish I could have just looked at him and say, you know, mr. Pender. I'm not interested in you. I don't want you and no type of way form or fashion. I don't want to have Then as with you for a voucher here now forever more, you know, I don't want you know, no dealings with you and I wish you would just stop asking me because to me I felt like he didn't think I could complete a sentence like that and if I would have said it to him like that maybe he would have been like wow, you know, she can she talk a little bit better than I thought. You know, that would have been the best thing for me to be able to say it to him in a way where it's like, okay, you're not beneath me.

1 (36m 43s):
I mean, I'm not beneath you. You know where I die

2 (36m 46s):
here. Just the other day. Kristen told me she has a new tactic. She used it with a guy at her work who kept trying to tell her these sexual jokes. Kristen was not having it in a room full of people with her boss watching. She tried her new move and it worked he backed off. She said to the guy Google me because I will record you. Jessica Lawson hop coming up idle chitchat about dog with an FBI agent can feel very threatening. That's in a minute. I'm Chicago public radio when our program continues.

2 (37m 29s):
Support for This American Life comes from the Capital One Walmart rewards card with the Capital One Walmart Rewards Card. You'll earn unlimited 5% back at Walmart online. That's 5% back at Walmart online. When you grab your shades for your beach trip new boots for your hiking trip or noise canceling headphones. When you need some vacation me time, you'll also earn 2% in Walmart stores at restaurants and on travel and 1% everywhere else when you want all that you need the Capital One Walmart Rewards Card what's in your wallet terms and exclusions apply Capital One and a This American Life Mary glass. Okay.

2 (38m 9s):
So it's March 20 20 and in this week of school is closing and people being quarantined and the NBA and Disneyland and Broadway are shutting down and still not enough tests out there to even begin to figure out how far can run a virus is spread. We have stories about moments when people feel a low hum of Menace sense of things might get much worse and it is not clear how much worse that means. We've arrived at two of our program back to reality show. So the First Act of our program today was about a man who is breaking the rules. This act is about men enforcing rules. In this case. It's FBI agents. The questioning a suspect is interrogation happened in June 2017.

2 (38m 49s):
It's a real interrogation that happened. The suspect was an NSA contractor named reality winner the FBI actually denied our request for the recording of this. They said it was not sufficiently in the public interest fortunately for us theater director. Tina satyr says she read the transcript of what was said. This is a play a thriller this woman alone in our house. These men will arrive and questioner and Tina Setter put this on stage more or less verbatim with actors playing the agents and playing reality winner. Even the most casual Small Talk between them has this this are to it the entire thing on stage takes 70 minutes. We're going to play you and edit it down excerpt Emily Davis plays reality winner TL Thompson and Pete Simpson play the special agents, just so you know, what's happening when they get to a word or phrase.

2 (39m 35s):
Phrase or sentence that has been redacted in the original FBI transcript. They play the sound so you can hear that sound then the action starts outside reality wonders home and Augusta, Georgia, and then it moves inside here. It is. Let's show you who we

1 (39m 51s):
are. Okay. Well, the reason we're here today is that we have a search warrant for your house. Okay. All right, you know this might be about I have no idea. Okay. This is about possible mishandling of classified information. Oh my goodness. Mmm. So we've got is again got a warrant and I'm happy to show it to you. What I'd like to do is sit down talk you with tough with you about a kind of go over. What what's going on. Talk to you going to get your Your side of it and of course you completely voluntary to talk to me we can we can talk here. Our office is about five minutes away.

1 (40m 32s):
If you want to we can talk there if you'd rather do either one makes no difference to me. Okay, you have any pets I do I because you've been gone for a while you live by yourself. Yes. Well we're going to have to do is we're going to have to go into the house first to make sure it's it's safe. That's absolutely search warrants. So where I'm going and what we'll do. As well keep you out here until we do that and once we secure it, well, then we'll kind of go from there. Okay, of course is your dog friendly. Okay, so she does not like men. Okay. Um, so that's a problem.

1 (41m 12s):
However in in she might come towards you she's okay. She's never bitten anybody. She's not aggressive. She's just got you know, a really good growl going. She'll probably just hide under my desk. Okay. Do we have a Alicia something where we can get her least. Okay. So what we might want to do is maybe let you go in there with her. You're not touch anything else not to do anything else bring it out. Yeah, are we cool with because otherwise if we're going to have a problem we're not going to do that. Okay. Okay house key. Okay, are there any weapons in the car in the house? In the house. Yes. We have I have a an AR-15 isn't pink.

1 (41m 55s):
It's pink. How do you know? Oh gosh. I have a Glock 9 under the bed. Okay, Anna 15 gauge sound like my house. Okay. Okay, we're good then. All right. Just don't make any any movements for that. Yeah. Yes. Yes. We'll get a water you want to get her allies on all that kind of stuff. But let's let's do that. Of course, we're going to get the dog and bring it up. Yeah, I gotta get your leash, but I know there's people out.

1 (42m 35s):
I want to make this as easy for you guys as possible. Okay, likewise. Just hopefully explain got to figure this all out and wrap it up. How long had your dog? She's actually a foster mom. Actually, I'm rehabilitated her so that hopefully she can get adopted later on. She's actually a rescue. I think I got her March. Yeah, my one of my dog's was a rescue and when he when I got him he wouldn't I was the only guy who can touch it. This is probably well three years. Anybody else came in the house especially male you pee all over the boys.

1 (43m 21s):
But I can touch it and it was fine. But if I'm he's 7 years old now, he just comes up to everybody likes his hand and he's great. Whoever had him before was a real. Was a real piece of work. Alright, so, um, would you like to talk to you or talk talk at the office? Oh, let's go ahead and talk here. Okay, you want to talk to you? Let's try to think we have any place in the house that that we can kind of sit down its private. Is there anything there anything there in the house? You can we can sit that's kind of away away your how many rooms so it's a one-bedroom. I do have a spare bedroom that I don't used. It's empty.

1 (44m 3s):
I don't like to go back there. I guess I don't have anything that's completely closed also. Okay, except for that back the back room. Yeah, and it's completely empty. Yeah, you'll go in here. There's one dog kennel cage. Other than that. I don't use the room. Okay. All right. You said you don't like to go in there with some ya got it's just creepy. It's just weird. It's like in addition to the house that's behind the kitchen and it's always dirty. Dirty and okay. We can talk back there if you're fine going back there. Okay, so we can go back.

1 (44m 44s):
So I do have to ask just however this goes and I'm not making any assumptions or anything like that. But is this going to be like a I brought my phone into the building type situation where I don't see my phone for three weeks or so ago over the warrant itself. Okay. So we do have a warrant for the phone. I'm not making any assumptions or anything like that, but I do teach yoga tomorrow and phone has music on it. Okay. And now I get I can make do like there are bigger problems in the world, I guess.

1 (45m 25s):
Yeah. Okay, we're good when you go back here. Yeah, you can go ahead and go back in there. Well, this room is dirty. I'm so sorry. No, not a problem. alrighty So what I want to do is kind of explain that we you know, do you have a search warrant? You're welcome to see the warrant. You're welcome to read the warrant and then explain a little bit about it.

1 (46m 6s):
Now if you're willing to talk to me but to go through just kind of how the started so I'm good to you. Okay? Okay. Yes. I'm going to take right. Going to take notes or reborn Alice Texan. I was like like like the girl's name. But yeah, like the name okay and currently are employed as a contract linguist with pluribus. Yes. Okay, how long you been employed by them? I started 9 February 2017. Where are you currently a science currently a sign and I think 21 tell me the building Whitelaw building second floor.

1 (46m 48s):
I'm sorry. What language is he said? I heard Dari Pashto. Okay. Okay any other no I'm kidding. Okay. All this stems from a report that we received that you have mishandled classified information. Okay. So that's the broad scope of it. My

2 (47m 10s):
question to you is does that ring any bells to you

1 (47m 14s):
whatsoever? It it does now when I started working at Whitelaw I had do you know pki passwords? I had a printed-out email in my folder and I didn't have a desk yet. So I took it with me pass through security went to a Starbucks and then came back and they look through it. And unfortunately the email that I had printed out was classified and they filed a report for that and you had gone to Starbucks come. Back and they checked a bag or that they check my folder. If you're familiar with Whitelaw you go through the turnstiles just to get to the cafeteria and you would go into the cafeteria.

1 (47m 56s):
Yeah, so you're in the building and they nabbed you. Okay? All right, but you're still in the building. Uh-huh. Okay. Alright. So what what's your work role there at Whitelaw? currently I translate graphic documents and Yeah, that's all I get from Farsi to English traffic document. Yeah, when did you process out of the Air Force? I processed out of the Air Force December December 14, 2016 and up until that time. I had been looking at contracts to try to get my clearance renewed. Okay. Well and when did when did pluribus pick you up pluribus?

1 (48m 37s):
Kick me out. I believe they gave me the notification around January let between 11th and 13th. On that day. Okay. Alright. So your clearance just kind of passed through pass through. Yeah. So as far as you're aware, you haven't committed any security violations or anything that you're aware of other than pki thing. No, I mean I do. Print out documents at work just because it's easier for me to translate them by hand, but then I put them in the bin box and then they don't get mixed up with like my class notes that I take because they are like I use pretty paper.

1 (49m 26s):
So I never take out white paper we all because I know that sounds really dumb, but that's just how I can do it now after that whole pki thing. I was like no more white paper out of the building. Okay. So you you said you print it out stuff. Yeah, bring it out. Is there a white that come to mind as far as security? Um it just I guess it all. I just think about. Having you know actual papers. I can't imagine any other way to get things out of the building. I guess and I'm old-fashioned.

1 (50m 7s):
So I'm just thinking about that and especially with the pki thing. Just making sure I didn't accidentally have something in My Lunchbox or anything like that. Nothing got out of the building nothing. You didn't carry anything out of the building. No, I definitely let everything get searched all of the time so I haven't had any other acts. Okay. Have you ever gone gun searching for stuff? That's not

2 (50m 29s):
related to your to your work roll?

1 (50m 32s):
No. Not unless I have someone in Maryland ask me a question. Okay, and I mean you kind of already answered this

2 (50m 41s):
but you were taking anything out of the NSA facility. I mean you mentioned the pki but if anything out of the facility No, no, whether it's a piece of paper ever downloaded anything ever emailed anything out. No, no, okay. Hmm. Have you ever discussed any classified material with anybody who wouldn't have the prior US Government authorization know

1 (51m 8s):
not many people ask about Irani and Aerospace. So I like that. So you never discussed discussed any work or anything classified with anybody? I use a lot of paper but never anything outside of a Ronnie in in anything else out of that and never outside of the building. Okay reality. What if I said that I had the information to suggest that you did print out stuff that was outside of that scope. Okay, I would have to remember okay?

1 (51m 51s):
What if I said you printed out information that was related to reports on? Reality, we obviously know a lot more than we're telling you at this point and I think you know a lot more than you're telling us at this point. I don't want you to go down the wrong road. I think you need to stop. And think about what you're saying and what you're doing. Because tell Anna telling a lie to an FBI agent is not going to be the right thing. You know again, we are here voluntarily you're talking voluntarily. I'm not asking you forcing you to do anything but thing.

1 (52m 33s):
That's what I'm asking you to do. is to think so think about what he just asked. But you know. There was one I printed out because I wanted to read it Timber what date printed it out might mess up the late March early a first few weeks were table. And what was it? It was a it was a NSA pulse article about in.

1 (53m 16s):
Yeah, I did. I did print that one out. Okay, um why why'd you print that one out? I just I wanted to read it in the way I had downloaded. It was just hard for me to read and I wanted to just look at it because it looks like a piece of History. So I wanted to have that on my desk for like a day and yeah what you do with that article. I kept it on my desk for like three days. And then I burn bag did in the box that has the slats on it by the fridge. How about any other times any other times you search for

2 (53m 52s):
anything on the any other times?

1 (53m 57s):
That did sparked my curiosity. So I just kept tabs on reading those articles looking at bugs with interesting to me. So I did read some of those they did you print out any of those articles. Did you ever go searching for them ever go digging nothing more than like a 10-minute detraction from work? Okay, you know what? What were you how would you do it? Just type in the search box and scroll. Okay. All right. Did you print out any of those articles? No, the only one was just the one that was like, okay is that and you're pretty sure it was late April early March that they can think about try to remember like personal details.

1 (54m 39s):
And yeah, I'm trying to so I remember I remember that week. Got into a fight with a boyfriend that we had to happen sometime in April. I'm just I'm trying to think what week what we can after that was like, I'm sorry. I know it's okay. I'm trying just like yeah, like mid-april is like all I'm thinking. Okay. All right. What if I told you that I know you searched for and printed out a document on the 9th of May. 9th of May I guess I can't argue that I mean if you know, I mean obviously, you know, if okay this would have been three and a half four weeks ago.

1 (55m 29s):
Roughly. Do you remember what how you what you did to get to the article other than seeing it on the front page or Lincoln it from everywhere Search terms you might have put in. I'm

2 (55m 38s):
probably I'm not very sophisticated

1 (55m 41s):
actually printed out that the dock you put it on a document intelligence report on this you do recall that yeah, I do remember. Yes. So what did you do with that document? Like I said, I kept it on my desk for Couple of days because I thought that it was interesting and I thought that I would read it and then I said no and I need to not keep this out on my desk. So I put it in a burn ban water in the burn back. Okay? Yeah. All right reality. Are you sure that's what you do with it? Yes. So you're positive. Yes. You did take it out of the building. No, go ahead and take out the building give it to anybody else then send it. No, you didn't send it to anybody. No, okay. Reality, can you guess how many people might have printed out that document?

1 (56m 31s):
It's not too many. That document has made it outside. Okay. Obviously because we're here. Yeah, obviously. Crap the most likely candidate by far and away is you I don't think you are, you know, big bad Master spy. Okay. I don't I don't think that But I think you might have been angry over everything that's been going on politics wise can turn on the TV without getting pissed off or at least I can and I think you might have made a mistake now why I'm here and why want to talk to you is to figure out the why behind this?

1 (57m 24s):
Okay. So I ask you again. Did you take it out and send it? I did didn't I put it in a burn bag. I mean, I'm trying to deploy I'm not trying to be a whistleblower. That's crazy. I think you're talking like that would end up getting eyelid left foot to be straight. I mean there's little to no security on documents. Okay, but you said you remember you remember putting putting in the in the burn bag is sliding in there fold it in half. I mean, I remember it fold it in half. Yeah, because it didn't Yeah, folded it in half. Okay. What if I told you that that document folded in half made his way outside and I say I don't know that made its way out in an envelope postmarked.

1 (58m 13s):
Augusta, Georgia. See things are getting a little specific. Okay, it made its way to an online news source that you subscribe to get really specific. Would you agree looks awfully bad? It looks really bad. So, how'd you get it out of the office? Fold it in half in my pantyhose. Okay. And would you do with it?

1 (58m 54s):
Put it in an envelope and send it to. That day that we get was just too much to sit back and watch and think why do I have this job if I'm just going to sit back and be helpless and it just sorry. I just thought that that was the final straw was just something that they just kind of did it because you don't seem like the type to do this. I I believe it. I want to believe it. I'm not. I'm not.

1 (59m 34s):
You know, I want to go out with our special forces. I mean, that's why I got out of the Air Force. That's why I'm here in Augusta. I wanted my clearance back so I can apply for a deployment and it was just at a time when I wasn't applying for any two points and I had you know, seven or eight months left of a job that didn't mean anything to me because it's a Ron and I'm a Pashto linguist. Like what am I doing translating Farsi? And it just I just felt really hopeless and seeing that. Information that have been contested back and forth and back and forth in the public domain for so long trying to figure out with everything else that keeps getting leaked and keeps getting released.

1 (1h 0m 15s):
Why isn't this getting out? Why isn't this getting out there Why Can't This Be

2 (1h 0m 22s):
public? Actress Emily Davis TL Thompson Pete Simpson, as you may know this is all in the news the document that reality winter weeked to the website The Intercept was an intelligence report confirming Russian hacking and the 2016 election. She still serving a five-year sentence. It's on it's on the music for The Stage production bison. I Yamada and Jim and brailsford Tina satyrs theatrical adaptation of the FBI transcript is called is this a room? They have a tour scheduled information at half straddle.com.

2 (1h 1m 5s):
My program is Paris today by Nadya Raymond people who put together. Today's show includes being met a woman me Susan Burton Ben Calhoun Dennis Shiva shankara nor Guild Damien grave Michelle Harris gonna jump Reward Center and making me go intimacy Stone Nelson. Been failing Robinson him Louis Sullivan. Christopher's portal and Mattoon a managing editors, Diane woo or executive editors David cast him down special. Thanks today to Kelly Clark Craig Hensel, Kendra Hannah Kendra Monroe madam. One ball and your head go sha Maria Hernandez our website This American Life dot-org This American Life is delivered public radio stations by PRX the public radio exchange reminder about Pocket Casts its the podcast app created by our public radio colleagues WBEZ WNYC and NPR.

2 (1h 1m 46s):
Now the BBC has joined in it is absolutely free. It's great. You can find it at the Apple app store Google Play Store and get Pocket Casts.com and I will end the show about the low hum of As with this very theme appropriate program note just a few hours ago as I was doing some last editing on the show. I learned that a few days ago. I shook hands with somebody who now has symptoms of coronavirus whose wife is a confirmed case So the plan is I am going into quarantine myself want to leave the studio today, and we are shutting down. Our office is everybody in her office is already working from home. So when you say I feel fine, hopefully I'll stay that way between now and next time I talk to you.

2 (1h 2m 29s):
You know avoid contact with others as much as you can stay well and wash your hands. Okay. And by the way, if you're tired of reciting the Happy Birthday song Twice as you wash turns out one chorus of the song Stayin Alive is the perfect length and you know, whether you're a brother or whether you're a mother just stay alive stay alive.