3 (1s):
Support for This American Life comes from Capital One where you can open a savings account in about five minutes and earn five times the national average. Just imagine five times more savings toward that overdue home edition, maybe even an addition on that addition. This is banking reimagined. What's in your wallet Capital One and a member FDIC Hey there, everybody. All right here. So if you're hurt our show last week, you know that I had just learned hours before we broadcasted episode that I needed to go into quarantine because a guy who I had shaken hands with five days before that develop symptoms and then tested positive for Coronavirus. It is now 12 days since I shook hands with that guy and I've not developed symptoms CDC guidelines say that it can happen for up to 14 days.

3 (48s):
So I am nearly in the Claire reminder to everybody that people who don't have symptoms can. Be carrying the virus and give it to others. Anyway, the world has changed so much. Right one of the Striking things about this coronavirus is how differently it affects different people. So some people who get it have no symptoms or they get mild symptoms or they experience something like a bad flu, that's particularly young and healthy people though young healthy adults are not immune the CDC put out a report this week. Maybe saw this thing 20% of hospitalized covid-19 patients are between 20 and 44 years old. Old but it's older people as we all know who are living in a completely different world these days if they leave their homes, they're walking around in a world that suddenly filled with this invisible thing that can kill them with no idea of who around the might have it or what doorknob it might be on one of our producers did custom Bobble talk to this woman Tova Rothman who 71 her husband 74 and has a compromised immune system.

3 (1m 49s):
So he is in special danger if he comes into contact with the virus. Here's David.

4 (1m 55s):
I talked it over last weekend was feels like so long ago. I don't think I would do this now, but we met in person to

3 (2m 2s):
talk. She lives in my town in this apartment across from the pizza place the little movie theater the Kings Supermarket,

4 (2m 9s):
her daughter told me she was eager to talk to someone

3 (2m 12s):
for her safety. I checked my temperature before I left the house washed my hands twice and wipe down my microphone.

4 (2m 18s):
But even that is no

3 (2m 19s):
guarantee again. I wouldn't do this now.

4 (2m 23s):
She came down from her apartment carrying her cellphone and a canister of Clorox

1 (2m 26s):
wipes.

4 (2m 29s):
We did the interview on a park bench if she's a little off mic. Sometimes it's because I'm sitting as far away from her as possible holding my arm straight out with the microphone every move. She makes right now requires

3 (2m 39s):
some impossible calculation

4 (2m 41s):
just to avoid anything that might get her or her husband

3 (2m 44s):
sick. How are you feeling in

1 (2m 45s):
general? Overwhelmed but I feel like if that I can Master this I went to Kings across the street. I just try to stay away from people. They have them restocking and restocking and they actually have better fruit and fresher fruit now. But you're not supposed to get between, you know, six six feet of of people and Millennials are all marching and marching around buying things in your you know, whoa, don't come near me.

1 (3m 27s):
You know, I must look like I'm crazy, but that's that's the way it goes. This town is a very young town. And so there's a lot of young people and a lot of kids skateboarding and they're like in your face. And you're like stay away, you know, but they don't, you know, they don't understand understand that have you said anything to anybody? No wearing my plastic gloves and caring Mike Mike at it's true Clorox. I think they understand where I'm coming from. It's not so

4 (4m 1s):
funny her husband because of his immune system is stuck in the

1 (4m 5s):
apartment. My husband is not well, he can't go out and he's not happy about it.

4 (4m 13s):
There's TV, of course, but annoyingly no Sports to watch because everything's been

3 (4m 17s):
canceled the other night he had guns.

4 (4m 20s):
Gone, which is really not topaz

1 (4m 22s):
thing. So we're not having a great relationship with the with this like I told them that I was checking on him and he shouldn't get out of his chair and he very nastily said, okay, I won't get out

3 (4m 38s):
does he say I want to go outside? And you say we can

1 (4m 41s):
yeah, he'll say I want to do something and I you can I would take him downstairs and he I'd go out and get air in his face that but there's so many surfaces between our apartment and and the lobby and it's only one floor, but the there's so much you have to worry about. It is a surreal thing. You just you think what every every morning you wake up and think I can't believe this is it real. So it's

2 (5m 18s):
real

4 (5m 25s):
to versus our grandfather died from the Spanish

3 (5m 27s):
Flu in 1918.

1 (5m 30s):
He he went to the Opera they used to get tickets where they could stand and pay a lot less and so he went to the Opera and he was in a crowd and he got he was sick one day and like died then the next

4 (5m 46s):
He's 26. I keep thinking about how differently everyone might view this thing how different our country's response might have been if the virus were is dangerous for younger people would

1 (5m 57s):
have reacted faster because oh this over tell me the old people that's it. That's how I feel. It wasn't quite as tragic if it's okay. It's the old people my friends keep calling and say and saying who knew we were the old people which is true.

4 (6m 18s):
Covid stood up to go back to her husband and then she did this guy walked really close to her to throw a tissue in the trash can is if it was two weeks ago or something

1 (6m 26s):
tougher was not happy. I was almost ready to throw. My canister of wipe said she should stay away. Maybe I don't look 71 I'm sure that's it. Okay, very nice meeting you, too, and thank

4 (6m 45s):
you. I called Tova four days later to see how she was doing. She still going out for walks. No supermarkets anymore.

3 (6m 59s):
Does actually the very last interview that anybody on our staff did with somebody in person David kassebaum story. We have all been holed up in her own homes. Everybody on the staff. We are one of the many businesses that have decided that is safer for everybody if we're working from home. So everybody's doing interviews over the phone. We're all preparing stories for next week's show about what's happening in the country and in the world, but in the meantime until then the thing about what Be nice to hear on the radio in a moment like this one. I think so much of what is happening. Now as we're being told to stay home and so many of us are either cooped up with our families or reaching out to family members more than usual and reaching out to the other people.

3 (7m 44s):
We love to see how they're doing and to worry together about what's going to happen. Next. We thought that in mind today, we would prepare a show of stories that we've made over the years about families and about people trying to find Comfort or find answers. By turning to their families including we have

4 (8m 2s):
this one story from like 25 years ago of me and my

3 (8m 5s):
mom back when she was still alive and I saw her quoted in a national magazine as a sexpert. I had some questions for her and I called her we get to that in act 3 from WBEZ Chicago. It's This American Life. I'm Ira Glass stay with us.

4 (8m 34s):
A. Gwaan.

3 (8m 35s):
Hey Dad, Dad. So school is cut off in so many places and kids are home and we have this story of a parent trying to go about his day and his daughter coming to him over and over with some things on her mind. Japanese food tells what happened?

1 (8m 54s):
My friend Matt's older daughter went through one of those hardcore phases where she got really into asking her dad a lot of questions. She was nine.

4 (9m 3s):
There's the Y phase and then the Y phase can turn into the why not and explain and that endless string of questions and like why can't I have my own room. How do I get to school? You know? Why can't we have a yard? Can I have a cookie their

1 (9m 19s):
unrelenting? So one night? Matt was working from home and Rosie was bugging him with her questions

4 (9m 25s):
and you know just sort of one after the other after the other and I was like, all right, look, you know, you got a good just just give me a minute. I'm working right now just go off and write them all down. Right like make me a list of the questions that you want me to answer and I'll answer them for you. I thought it was going to be like three or four questions and then like a, you know, like a picture of a rabbit or something and you know, I get this list and I look at it and these are like the essential unanswerable questions of

1 (9m 54s):
life. Read a few of these questions for me restart at the very top.

4 (10m 1s):
Okay. So what is life? Why that's the first question the first question the first thing she wants to know where do we go? When we die Heaven explain another planet is having another planet. Why is there a heaven or hell time? Why explain? Do we make worlds do we become like God? Why? Why do you do what you do? How do you know what's true? Who do you miss why explain do you miss anyone more than them? And does that change and how and if that changes was it worth missing them in the first place?

4 (10m 43s):
And you know, my favorite is and this is pretty much just like, you know, my jaw dropped why any of this? I mean my first reaction to them is I mean, I'm I'm proud of her and then I realized I actually have to answer these questions

1 (11m 2s):
right there about three pages single-spaced of handwritten questions about 50 questions. Total But A promise is a promise so my got to work. He's a professor at West Point teaches writing and so he took a professorial approach to it and started researching answers for her looking up quotes on each topic. Spending weeks sometimes months writing each answer like what's the shortest and what's the longest you've ever spent? And what's the hardest one?

4 (11m 30s):
So, I think the longest one is one that I haven't finished answering for her yet. Which is what is love.

1 (11m 36s):
What's been the easiest one? The answer so far

4 (11m 39s):
is heaven another planet. No.

1 (11m 48s):
I got him to read me one of the answers. He worked hardest on the answer to time. Why explain could you read it for me?

4 (11m 56s):
Sure. So tell me what and tell me why and the burden is on me to justify this to you perhaps that's what time means in the end is justification or a lack of being justified and I don't really know what justification means there was all movie. I saw when I was a kid and your grandmother's house with the big boys. Come on in the

1 (12m 15s):
black then brings in the Millennium Falcon then st. Augustine then Kierkegaard Rosie was nine all his answers are like this

4 (12m 23s):
here guard gets to this point after either ordering everything you Why did I not die as a baby?

1 (12m 30s):
I'm a grown-up and I find it impossible to follow your answers. Like I have I honestly I have not any idea what you're

3 (12m 40s):
saying. Okay.

4 (12m 43s):
Yeah. I mean, I really don't understand half of what I just said either right to be honest.

1 (12m 50s):
What is answers do have going for them is sincerity the time when it ends like this

4 (12m 56s):
and one of my favorite stories by guy named William Faulkner. There's a Daddy who gives his kid and watch and says I give you this watch not that you might remember time. But so that you might forget it for a little while. I can only tell you the time is me turning and turning while the world is turning around a star the turns around the center of the turns around the whole time among all the other things a little Turning animals on all the little turning world's there is me trying to turn to you.

1 (13m 27s):
Okay, and you just told her this answer like this? Yeah, and she

3 (13m 34s):
I mean she would kind of

4 (13m 35s):
passed in and out of being interested in it, you know, and at the end of it she's just kind of like, huh?

3 (13m 43s):
Yeah. Okay. I'm like, all right. Well,

4 (13m 48s):
I mean you see what I'm saying about time. As you know, like is a measurement of change its arbitrary human construct but not but it feels different. Right? So this phenomenon

3 (13m 57s):
it's like yeah.

4 (13m 57s):
Yeah, okay.

1 (14m 0s):
I was like, oh, well, this isn't really exactly what I wanted. It's not what you wanted because you were like, oh this is kind of boring. Yeah Rosie has a pixie cut and a cheeky grin. She gave her dad the 50 questions three years ago. She's 12 now. He's been working on getting her answers, but he's only gone through two thirds of them because it takes him so long to Cobble together a response, but I found out talking to Rosie is she didn't even really care about the answers to these questions questions that I thought. Thought that would take him a long time to answer because of the time. I really just wanted to talk to him it all started when she first moved to New York City before then. She'd been living with her mom and grandparents most of the week, but then a grandpa who she was really close to died and she had to move in with her dad during the week instead at the same time.

1 (14m 49s):
She started at a new school where the kids either ignored or bullied her and she felt lost one day. She came home from school and decided she needed to do something about it. I was lonely. And I felt a little sad that nobody had really stepped out to say. Oh, hey, it's gonna be. Okay. I'll be your friend. The that's when I really really need somebody to talk to so you didn't have anybody talked about school and then at home, that's what really why I felt like oh, this is my dad. He's a really important person. I love them very much. I really want to become closer with them.

1 (15m 30s):
I'm like, I wish there was something that I could do to make us closer. Did you feel like your dad wasn't paying enough attention to you? Yeah a little bit her not a little bit. Yeah, what was he doing instead? Um, he was he was writing papers on his computer and I knew that time how important it was, but part of me still wish that I put down all the screens put down everything else and just talk. So I wrote all the questions down and they were big questions because I know my dad and if it's a little question he'll elaborate on it and I'll make it a big deal.

1 (16m 14s):
So if you times that by a big complex question, that would be a huge talk. Is it true that you weren't talking to her much of the time?

3 (16m 25s):
No, I think I was talking to her all the time.

4 (16m 29s):
You know, I would tell her it's time to get up and go to school. I would tell her

3 (16m 33s):
that it was time to do her homework. I would tell her that she needed a new jacket. Yeah, I mean I have to talk to you all the time.

1 (16m 40s):
Maybe you're noticing the purely logistical nature of everything. He mentioned it certainly didn't get past Rosie

3 (16m 46s):
Adam. Talk to you all the time.

1 (16m 47s):
Yeah, but it's me. It's not really the same thing. So a conversation and talking on completely different thing talking could be arranged from hey what? Up and conversation is your deep in thought and you're looking and you're making uncracked intact and you're really enjoying the presence of somebody else. Rosie's a smart kid. Yeah, but this is the thing. I really admire about her. Matt was a single dad with two kids going to school and trying to make the run to the same time telling him to pay attention to her didn't cut it so she figured out something else. I read the short story recently about a successful con man whose motto was make them want to give you the thing.

1 (17m 34s):
You want to take Rosie made her dad want to give her attention by making. An opportunity to do what he loved ponder over life's big questions. My dad was kind of hard shelled I guess and so it took like a lot I had to keep asking these questions and keep wondering for me. It was just I had to keep going and keep trying and keep being this little bird that goes on your shoulders. Like I'm now your friend. Do you feel like it sort of taught him how to talk to you better? Yeah, definitely. Over the past three years. We've really like worked on having actual conversations than him just answering questions for me because we practice it.

1 (18m 24s):
Rosie never knew that her dad spent months and months writing down each answer Matt only told her when I started working on this story and she said she felt like what are you kidding me? I had no idea that he was doing all this thing's and it's just a big surprise for me. If I could I would definitely just say forget the questions. I just want to talk. So you're like, well, you don't even have to go through all that trouble. Yeah. Yeah, just hang out. Yeah. Rosie said this to her dad when she found out and it really threw me for a loop. Yes, complete waste of

4 (18m 58s):
time. I mean what a complete waste of time to come up with these big extensive projects that they're definitely less important to them than just just listening to him. Hmm. You know, what is time why I explain? Well, I could say what I don't want time to be. I don't want time to be something where I am. Just figuring out And I need to shut up and make some time to listen to this little kid before it's too late

1 (19m 37s):
Rosie really started asking the questions because she wanted to know that she wasn't alone and that everything was going to be okay. Now she enjoys hearing the answers because they remind her that that's true. That's why one of her favorite answers is the ending of time why explain the part about all All of the planets turning around themselves and in the middle of it Matt turning towards Rosie. One of the main means of that is even though everything is happening around you he just wants to know about me a little more. Yes, and the thing that I really like about that is because he just uses these sentences that make me kind of happy when I read them, you know, it's kind of funny when he read this to me.

1 (20m 21s):
He sort of choked up a little bit. Yeah, he likes to be kind of of one expression person. But when he read stuff like this, he gets all like emotional like in the car right here. He was like, oh, I love you so much and he was like tearing up and looking out the window. So you look so happy about that. Yeah, it's pretty great. So people have been asking these big important questions.

1 (21m 2s):
Like why are we here? What is life for forever? And do you think that the real like big reason why we ask it is to have a reason to talk to each other. Um, no, I think that philosophers actually really do wonder about these things and they they don't use it so that they could talk to their dads more they It because they really wonder about these things and they want to know everything about it. But for my personal use, yes, that's exactly My does still want to keep answering Rosie's questions for her. But as for the hardest question, what is love? I don't think Rosie needs her dad to explain that to her anymore. She gets it.

3 (21m 51s):
Stephane faroult she's currently writing a book about complex PTSD these days Rosie as a freshman in high school and she goes by Rory now we checked in with her. She says she's using her time cooped up at home with her family right now to draw and listen to music. She says everybody's getting along.

1 (22m 8s):
Why do birds suddenly appear every time you are near? Just like me they long to be close to you

3 (22m 26s):
like to call me. Maybe so many of us are concerned right now about our older relatives, especially our parents and grandparents. And this story in the most literal way is about reaching out over the phone. Sean Cole put it

2 (22m 40s):
together. Yo Sean, this is your mom wasn't home

3 (22m 48s):
about four or five years ago. I started saving all my mom's voice mails thinking she's not going to be around forever. I'm gonna want to hear her voice when she's gone though. Somehow. I didn't extend that thought to I could hear her voice right now. If I picked up the phone, she had a talent for the form with some of them it almost feels like I'm talking to her except she's playing both

2 (23m 9s):
parts. What time is it? Oh, it's see. 52 huh? Yeah, it's later than I thought. I can't believe it's still light out decided to go to the Royal for supper tonight. So that's what I did. I went early and we are back early. So I don't know what you're doing. So this is me. Say mama, I'm here right? You

3 (23m 37s):
lucky same woman's it's me in French. Sometimes there's not much more than

2 (23m 41s):
that. Hi, Mama. Love you lots. Talk to you soon. Bye

3 (23m 45s):
this one's even shorter. Hey, Mama, but of course all the messages boil down to her saying in one creative way or another. Please call me back. Sometimes she was a lot more direct about it.

2 (23m 57s):
Don't forget to call your mother. Goodbye,

3 (24m 6s):
actually, here's the one that I always tell people about when I'm talking about her messages. It's like she's sort of circles and then goes in for the kill.

2 (24m 15s):
I heard you on the radio on Sunday, and I knew it was you because I can recognize your voice even though it's been a long time since I've heard it on the phone. So anyway, love you lots and lots. Call me when you when you think of it if you ever do a bloody. Bye.

3 (24m 40s):
My mom her name was Pat. She died on September 28 2015 at 4:22 in the morning. It was relatively sudden and totally unexpected and as much as I thought I Was preparing myself for that moment. I wasn't prepared. It's true. I didn't call enough, but she was still the first person I thought to call when something huge happened good or bad. I loved talking to her. She was funny so you can tell and smart. She wrote technical manuals in the early days of personal Computing later in life. She loved a lot of pro grade camera equipment around the world taking pictures and yet she had a hard time figuring out her smartphone the last recording I have from her saved on my phone.

3 (25m 23s):
It was a pocket

2 (25m 24s):
dial.

3 (25m 27s):
This goes on for three

2 (25m 28s):
minutes.

3 (25m 34s):
Did you go for your walk this

2 (25m 35s):
morning? No, I didn't make it this morning. And I figured that I was pretty busy

3 (25m 40s):
after mom died. I started calling home a lot more to talk to my stepdad Ed hacker. He and I never really had a phone relationship when my mother was alive. It was more the classic thing of you want to say hi to add and then we'd verbally clap each other on the back and then back to Mom these days. It's not weird for us to spend almost two hours on the phone together

2 (26m 1s):
that I had to get tweets out. So

3 (26m 3s):
you're the Most active octogenarian on Twitter that I know

2 (26m 7s):
about. Well I try to set out about six or seven tweets.

3 (26m 11s):
Why did you send this morning?

2 (26m 13s):
Oh I said about three or four from

3 (26m 14s):
think of how annoyed my mom would be if you knew this, but I'm now performing the exact telephone Behavior she wanted from me when she was around except now with Ed I call about once a week on average and it's always me initiating the calls now that first of course it was mainly to make sure he was holding up. Okay and To make sure I was holding up. Okay, but even now when I miss a week it eats at me, like I'm thinking gotta call it gotta call it. It's like an injustice that he's getting this treatment and not her and I keep trying to square it somehow but when I put this to Ed he basically said it's really not that big a

2 (26m 53s):
mystery kind of obvious that if one parent dies your realize that the other one may not be that far off that he will go to or she So, you know the scarcity just like in economics makes the value go up

3 (27m 11s):
and never thought of this in economic terms

2 (27m 13s):
before well, it's true of many things. If the population is very low, you

3 (27m 19s):
know and Z87 he taught philosophy and logic at a university in Boston for a lot of years, which is fitting because Ed is very logical and philosophical. He's always quoting one or another great thinker for fun. He does math yet. I'm got together when I was six I moved in when I was 11 and I think he's right that I called because I'm more aware than ever that one day. He won't be on the other end of the phone, but it's more than that to even though we have all of these other people in our family. We love it. Got to feeling like Ed's the other one mom's death happened to like he and I were the ones who mutually needed to talk about Mom and to hear about her.

2 (27m 60s):
I feel that yes, I can. Talk to you. You about Pat because you're willing to talk to her about it to you about it. Yeah, and it makes a big difference to me. It does of course. I'm

3 (28m 13s):
so glad to hear

2 (28m 14s):
that because you've lost the same person. Even if it's somewhat similar if somebody else has lost someone else, you know, though if these groups in which everyone has lost a spouse and their memories are different, you know, you never met that other person that died. You really don't care don't care about your loss. I've been you know, yeah be honest.

3 (28m 43s):
Are you on the deck now? I am having a smoke

2 (28m 47s):
I am.

3 (28m 53s):
For a long time. My mom was a third invisible person in all of these conversations, but we've both noticed we're talking about mom less and less people told me this would happen but I didn't really believe them or he didn't want to time slouches on you wake up two different thoughts in the morning and when you call home the first thing you say isn't how are you holding up like it like it used to be that you would kind of Mark how long it had been you'd say. Like, I can't believe it's been three. It'll be three months on Monday, or I can't believe it'll be Nine months on Thursday or whatever.

2 (29m 27s):
Well, I still keep track of the time you do. Yeah, and I also have an app on my computer all three of them which is set to tell me how many days since Pat died you do? I do. I didn't know that so this way I'm going there right now see what my apps are. Well, it's been 22 months and three days since she's died. I'd Whoever you want 1 year 10 months and 3 days. Days or of you want 95-96 weeks

3 (30m 7s):
and what do you feel like looking at that

2 (30m 11s):
don't have any particular feeling? It's just that it's amazing that it's almost two years. It's like saying I remember

3 (30m 22s):
yeah, I feel like I need something like that like some sort of like I just feel like I don't think

4 (30m 31s):
Out her enough.

2 (30m 32s):
Well that you'll have to explain. Why should you think more?

3 (30m 37s):
I don't know. It's just

2 (30m 38s):
like is it guilt or something? It's not he'll know it's water by thinking about

3 (30m 43s):
it's like yeah. I want to honor her more by thinking about her and it also feels like there's something going on in me all the time that I'm not acknowledging the kind of leaks out in these other ways and I just miss her and so it's like I need to put that missing somewhere. Where

2 (31m 4s):
well you have a photograph of Pat?

3 (31m 9s):
Yeah. I have one up on the wall in my office.

2 (31m 12s):
Okay, take another one and everyday move it from one spot to another in your apartment.

3 (31m 20s):
That's a really good idea. Did you just think of that?

2 (31m 24s):
Yes, that makes it sort of a ritual.

3 (31m 36s):
But the truth is I already have the ritual I need I don't do it every day. But I do it just about every week I call Ed we talked for this specific need I have it turns out he's the perfect person to. Call maybe you've got somebody like that a personal Ghostbuster when there's something strange in the neighborhood when things are looking their worst that person who will know what you're talking about. Even if they can't understand what you're saying. And I got to do is call

4 (32m 12s):
John Cole

3 (32m 13s):
when I checked in with Ed this week. It was the same as always doing. Well. He turns 90

2 (32m 18s):
in April.

3 (32m 23s):
Factory Mom. Okay. So this is a story we first put on the air in 1996. And yes, our program has been on the air for a long time Diane who's putting together this part of the show with me producer Diane won't she listen to this recording and she told me that I sound exactly the same in it as I sign today, which I don't know. Is that a good thing? Is that not a good thing shouldn't a person grow. I think I should sound at least a little different. Anyway, here is how I introduced this story back then in 1996 quick warning before the story starts at this story acknowledges the existence of sex. Okay, here we go. Our parents can surprise us with what they don't tell us with what they don't talk about especially when it comes to sex recently.

3 (33m 8s):
I had this experience an ex-girlfriend was in the gym looking through a copy of Marie Claire magazine women's magazine. And there was an article in it when women's fantasies their sexual fantasies. What do your man's dirty Daydreams reveal about what he wants from you in the article 6 sexperts. That was the word. They used sexperts reveal the six most common male sex fantasy scenarios. So I'm makes girlfriend is reading and they are in the third paragraph 1 of this experts turns out to be my mother.

3 (33m 50s):
Hello. Hey Mom. Yeah, it's Ira.

2 (33m 53s):
Yeah,

3 (33m 54s):
so try to do a little interview. Okay, so Mom, can I read to you a quote from an article or okay, here it is. Your man wants a woman who excites him through her own excitement. You could stimulate yourself while he watches or let him participate by moving his hand to where you want it. Yeah, that's you being quoted in Marie Claire.

2 (34m 24s):
You're kidding. What what is it?

3 (34m 29s):
All I know is that is that on the he'd was at the gym and she opens up Marie Claire to to an article called men's sexual fantasies and and it says at the top here sexperts reveal the six most common scenarios unlock the secret longings and psyches of the Modern Men Who fantasize and and you basically are one of the

2 (34m 52s):
sexperts. Yeah.

3 (34m 55s):
I didn't really know you were a sex

2 (34m 57s):
pert. What did you think I

3 (34m 59s):
was just another Jewish mom and psychologists. Uh-huh. So it wasn't like you were a sex pert and you were keeping it from your family

2 (35m 14s):
you're talking about my family being my children not my husband. Yeah, because he knows that I'm a sex

3 (35m 19s):
part.

2 (35m 23s):
And you can call him to verify that

3 (35m 26s):
I think I'm just gonna let that

2 (35m 27s):
go but my children always seemed embarrassed if I discuss anything sexual. So therefore I tend not to around them.

3 (35m 44s):
When when would you try to discuss something sexual with

2 (35m 46s):
us my make a Joe or They something that I had a sexual connotation and I get this

3 (35m 58s):
disapproval. I don't think that's true. Yeah, actually, I mean it doesn't it doesn't affect me in any way to think that you and Dad would be sexual with each other. In fact, I even remember as a teenager understanding that and being kind of reassured by it. Does that make any sense

2 (36m 19s):
makes a little bit of sense but it really doesn't cover all the Situation's of except. I'm just telling a joke or talking about something somebody else and I think it has to do with boundaries and I think it has to do with that children even adult children do not like to regard their parents sexuality. Hmm.

3 (36m 44s):
Listen, you're actually convincing me. Well, let's do a little scientific test. Can you think of a sexual joke you just tell when right now and I'll tell you my reaction.

2 (36m 56s):
I can't think of

3 (36m 59s):
you know, what I'm feeling right now. I'm feeling a

2 (37m 1s):
profound way. Something might be true that when Neil Armstrong walked on the moon. And he said one giant step for man and one. What is it one giant step for mankind or whatever one small step for man. One giant step for mankind it right one small step for man. One giant step for mankind. And then he also said good luck. Mr. Gorky and for years people have been asking him what that meant and he would never tell them and then this year someone brought it up again. What did you mean when you said good luck? Mr. Porky and he said well I can tell now because mr.

2 (37m 43s):
Gehrke died this Here when I was a little boy. Mr. Gorky was our next door neighbor and I was playing outside one day and their bedroom window was open and I heard mrs. Gorky say oral sex. You want me to give you oral sex, you'll get oral sex from me the day that boy next door walks on the moon. Well

3 (38m 18s):
now I'm examining my own feelings and I have to say I did get very nervous there in a way that does not. Correspond, perhaps with shrugging my shoulders at the notion of of you having some sexual life and sexual thoughts. Yeah. So let me read you some of your other quotes here. All right in the fantasy of man dominates woman, you're quoted as saying says, dr. Glass quote in a caring relationship. It's certainly not abusive or unhealthy if the fantasy is played out in a light teasing way. You're also quoted extensively in fantasy number 5. Spontaneous encounter with a beautiful stranger the key quote is this one as far as I'm concerned go to a restaurant and at first pretend you don't know each other suggest, dr.

3 (39m 5s):
Glass. Which when I read that it actually explains some dinners of had with you and Dad. I thought well, you know, you didn't talk very much between the two of you.

2 (39m 16s):
No, no, that's just the

3 (39m 18s):
opposite. So if you actually have you have you have you done this, have you gone to a restaurant with that and pretend that you didn't know each other? No, no. No, but if you did you're saying

2 (39m 29s):
that doing the restaurants with you and pretended we didn't know you

3 (39m 35s):
what do you mean by that?

2 (39m 37s):
Well when you were younger and and Manner of dressing didn't conform. All right. All right, I think everybody yeah people in the rest. Back when that Daddy Daddy would look at you and he would start popping jail yourself we go out to eat and I say now Barry people will look at him are going to look at us and they're going to know that we did not pick out his clothes.

3 (40m 9s):
So now that I know that you're this big sex pert you have any sex

2 (40m 11s):
advice for me? Find a nice girl and get married.

1 (40m 18s):
That's not sex

2 (40m 18s):
advice. We always end up this way it with that particular advice. Yeah, that's

3 (40m 27s):
I could ask you any

2 (40m 27s):
question and that would be the

4 (40m 29s):
advice my mom. Dr. Shirley

3 (40m 40s):
glass back in 1996 in that recording she A year younger than I am

4 (40m 46s):
today

3 (40m 48s):
coming up when I dad, you know, so well does something very very uncharacteristic. What does it mean that's in a minute Chicago public radio when our program continues Support for This American Life comes from Capital One Capital One has a fresh take on banking. Now. You can open a new savings account in about five minutes and earn five times the national average banking with Capital One means 5 times the savings toward your dream honeymoon or five times the savings toward your family's ultimate vacation, even five times the savings toward just feeling good about saving whichever it is. It's time to make your savings goals come true.

3 (41m 29s):
This is banking reimagined. What's in your wallet Capital One na member FDIC? support for This American Life comes from better help online counseling better help offers licensed counselors who specialize in issues including depression and anxiety as well as relationships trauma anger and more you can connect privately with a counselor through text chat phone or video calls and you'll get help on your own time at your own pace and at an affordable rate for a special offer visit better help.com tal that's better help.com Tal This American Life from Ira Glass speaking to you today not from a studio, but from home because our staff is working from home.

3 (42m 15s):
And also I am on quarantine. I'm actually a Kentucky from inside a closet. It's an old recording trick with the idea that the clothes absorbs sound. I would just say it's very cramped today on our program with kids out of school all over the country and businesses closed and people hunkered down at home with family and also lots of people far from family in the ones they love reaching out and worried for them. We've put Other a show of family stories that we've made over the years both the stories in this next part of our show up people turning to their dads over the telephone with a question this first one act for it takes a villa Come to Me O drumming

4 (42m 53s):
in the summer of 1982. My dad did something unexpected something that seemed unbelievably indulgent. He took me my mom my brother and the youngest of My Three Sisters on the most epic road trip any of us could have possibly imagined at the time we pile It into my dad's Buick Skylark and drove from Queens New York to the World's Fair in Knoxville, Tennessee, where a robot dance for us and then down into Orlando Florida. This was a big deal before this going away meant visiting relatives in South Carolina and sitting uncomfortably among aunts and second cousins whose names I would forget before we'd even pulled out of their Dusty driveways. This trip was not country heat and sipping sugar water on some rickety porch while listening to the inscrutable.

4 (43m 39s):
You have Grown Folk. It was what going a thousand miles from home should feel like we cruise down a brightly lit street called International Drive. We stayed at a Holiday Inn taller and more Grand than any I've ever seen sunlight streamed in through a hole in the ceiling a hole that was supposed to be there. Our parents took us to a building that looked like a pile of poached eggs, but was actually Xanadu House of the future and everywhere along every roadside Billboards promise that the magical scene still awaited us this place Disney World by all accounts. It was Paradise for kids, but between the gas and the hotels and the eating out my dad quickly discovered how expensive taking even 60% of his brood on a Disney vacation could be he was resigned to do it, but he wasn't above Working The Angles he found out that you could get cheap tickets to the Magic Kingdom if you just signed up to sit through an hour or so Spiel from pitching timeshares he was in The Hard Sell went down at the Disney Village a branded mini mall near the famous theme park my mom dad and a handful of other determined parents though their kids in a room full of toys that had been conveniently provided by the salespeople.

4 (44m 58s):
The parents said about the business of listening. We're not waiting patiently for the moment when the closures would stop Shilling and start handing out the Disney discounts. But while we kids were in another room throwing Legos at one another something surprising happened. My dad bit he went into a closed room to get three-day passes just so that I could eventually lose my glasses on Space Mountain and he came out with a deed the deed to something. He and my mom were now calling our Villa. My father was a bold man, but in retrospect this is the most impetuous action that I have ever seen him take it cost him about $5,000 which he paid in installments in 1982 for guy with five kids who never made more than 33 thousand dollars a year at his day job.

4 (45m 48s):
It was a considerable investment for those unfamiliar with timeshares. It may be hard to wrap your head around buying a vacation home that you never really own. You pay Upfront for it. There's an annual maintenance fee, but you only get to stay in it once a year or so usually for a week at a time. It almost sounds like some sort of scam and sometimes it is but it didn't turn out that way for us instead. It became a fixture in my family. My father had chosen as our week the first week in July and so every year during one of the hottest months of the year. We would head down I-95 as always but now when we pulled into South Carolina to see relatives that was only a pit stop on the way to our true destination.

4 (46m 33s):
We had transformed from people who went away to a family who went on vacation. Our Villa was number 317 a two bedroom apartment with an enclosed back porch the looked out on to a small man-made lake complete with fish ducks. And another summer word that I learned gazebo my brother chased cicadas and lizards for my sister. The only swimmer among my siblings. There was a pool they were tennis courts and bikes to rent the general story. Offered a collection of the latest movies on LaserDisc that first trip. I was eight as I got older I moved from the Gazebo to the game room and then the gym trying to meet other kids my age my mom busied herself in the kitchen making lunches or set by the lake and watch the Ducks.

4 (47m 25s):
My Dad Shepherd us through It's a small world and Epcot Center. Our summers went on like this pretty much exactly like this probably until I finish High School. I honestly loved it. I looked forward to this trip every year and even though it was only a week. It was almost always the highlight of my entire summer. But when I think about it now, it occurs to me my dad pretty much orchestrated this thing that became so important to our lives and I have no idea whether or not he ever enjoyed it himself. In fact, it didn't seem like he did I can't recall actually seeing him happy. Neither does my brother. He says Dad was pretty much the same at the timeshare as he was at home.

4 (48m 7s):
Sometimes he'd go for walks alone. But often he just sat on the couch and watch TV. I asked my sister. She said he must have been happy, but she doesn't remember witnessing it either. It seems like such a simple question, but I just wanted to know did he enjoy himself? At the risk of embodying the most tired Trope in all of modern masculinity. I will say my father and I never really got along he was strict his house had a lot of rules and he believed in corporal punishment and the sting of that conflict stayed with me as an adult. But since my mom passed away last year, I've been trying to connect with him more I gave him a call.

2 (48m 55s):
Hello. Hello? Yes. Hey, it's Neal. Yes. Is it a bad time? It's about who this is it a bad time. No. No, I was just playing Solitaire, you know. Yeah. I didn't know what it was the drugs or

4 (49m 12s):
not. Are you waiting for a call from the drugstore

2 (49m 16s):
vehicle? Give me a call. No matter when it is.

4 (49m 20s):
My dad is 83 years old now and living. Loan in Florida talking to him can be awkward and not just because his hearing is going I asked him Point Blank if he liked going to the Villa he told me that when he was growing up. He barely ever left, South

2 (49m 34s):
Carolina. I didn't know nothing about nothing else, you know, like who saw things in magazines and stuff the first time I first time I knew about a dentist I was in the house, but just thought it was was it get out of here today that I can't see some something other than their surroundings where he would ever want. Yeah.

4 (50m 3s):
My dad grew up poor on a farm one of 12 children. He says he only finished high school because by the time he was old enough. He was the one driving the bus sometimes when they were athletic events at other schools. He get to drive the teams and learn what the nearby towns were like in 1953. He was drafted into the army, which had only recently been integrated. They set him to Colorado and Indiana and it wasn't great. He says the Army was really not into black people back then. So those were his travel experiences when he was young. I was hearing a lot of this for the first time as it turns out that's at least partially my own

2 (50m 41s):
fault. Do you know why we never talk about it because it's this wasn't the kind of thing that that you guys seen the been interested in

4 (50m 50s):
really so we just didn't seem like we were interested as

2 (50m 54s):
kids. Yeah, right.

4 (50m 56s):
Yeah. I probably wasn't so interested back then back when the two of us were constantly challenging each other. I was always either afraid of him or angry at him hiding from him or planting my feet to confront him. It never crossed my mind to try to understand him. But nowadays my dad feels to me like some kind of living Cold Case a million page brief that is no longer redacted. Maybe it's because I'm now at the age he was when I was born but I retroactively find his every decision fascinating even the ones that aren't so surprising on the surface

2 (51m 29s):
why Florida it was advertising, you know, you who get to hear something about Florida, you know, like and then this thing do The world after we started going they build F car, they build animal kingdom and they advertise them a lot. Yeah, not many people were going we were probably the most vacationing people and eye area, you know. Yeah, I don't know of any other family that went on vacation every year we

4 (52m 6s):
did. My dad was obviously proud that he got in the timeshare. But Pride strictly speaking this not constitute Joy. It didn't answer the question of whether or not he was actually happy spending those summer weeks with us at the Villa instead. He kept trying to make me understand why he brought us there in the first place and his explanation his reasoning reach back to memories and past experiences that not only had I never heard but the kind of blew my mind.

2 (52m 40s):
When we went to school Kevin summer, you had to try to think of something that you can write about when you go back to school because you going to have to write something. Yeah about what you did this summer. Well, we never had anything. To write about when I was going to school. And you didn't think flying a mule or picking peaches or stuff that that you had to normally do? You didn't think that was so exciting the right about yeah. You know, you know I so we made up lies about what we did.

2 (53m 23s):
Well, give me some of you guys went on vacation. You could write about something that you that you did a song or some place. You went. Yeah.

4 (53m 37s):
What did you do during the Summers

2 (53m 40s):
when the dish know when you were in school? Or

4 (53m 59s):
we talked for over an hour. It was one of the longest conversations that I can remember us ever having every now and then I try to steer him back to the question. I wanted him to answer so I know I asked you this a bunch of times. I keep asking the same question. You could tell me to stop asking me if you But did you have fun

2 (54m 16s):
yourself? Yeah, I see. I don't regret anything cuz he like Doing what I was supposed to do and you know like in the to see your kids happy was to be happy to and and you guys could always come in and do whatever it is and go back out to the pool or whatever. I remember, you know, you guys playing out there and hang around the bushes and stuff. I thought it was great.

4 (54m 53s):
That's a kind of enjoyment. I hadn't considered. I live more selfishly. Also, his answer was hard to take in to reconcile with the distance. I felt between us at the time back when he would retire to the couch to watch TV while we went off to play on our own. Maybe he was watching me play in the bushes and getting a kick out of it, but I didn't know that. Still I was happy at the Villa and my dad says he was too. I'm glad I know that all right, so I have been talking to you for an hour. I should probably let you go. But but hey, this is it. Okay, like if I call back this week and just talk I want to hear like more stuff since I didn't seem interested when I was a kid.

4 (55m 35s):
I didn't realize that was why he didn't tell us stuff. So now I'll just ask is that okay? Is it okay

2 (55m 40s):
if I could the only thing I do is to get up and some time. I'm outside just Around some time. I sit down with some gum. I go ride the bike and I didn't suggest it to keep busy. You know, like you can call me anytime. All right, I'm gonna go back to work. Okay

4 (55m 57s):
coming.

3 (56m 7s):
He says his dad is 87 is emphatically not freaked out over covid-19. High five, let's talk radio. We like to ask you this question my friend the personal

4 (56m 26s):
problems and worries. Have you

3 (56m 27s):
done are you disturbed by business

4 (56m 29s):
problems marriage problems or emotional

3 (56m 32s):
problems see mrs. K reader and advisor mrs. K formerly of Europe gives you a reading and answers all your questions for just one dollar and you'll feel much better. Okay. So this is my father in 1956 three years before I was born. He's 23 years old in this recording and It's amazing to me. Anyway hearing him so young doing something. I know so well trying to sound like you just talking totally relaxed when in fact you're reading

4 (57m 0s):
and coming up right now use a Bach a wonderful Appliance from Norman are Mitchell just for the Homemakers as we said before. We're talking about an electric dryer and my

3 (57m 12s):
friend my father started in media when he was 19 the same age. I was when I started he began at the college station at the University of Maryland and after graduation, he got a job spinning records at a commercial station in Baltimore. We loved it. It's in you're doing this on Sunday mornings while I was in the Army stationed in Virginia. That's where this recording is from and at some point my mom got pregnant a second time with me and he decided to quit radio. Just didn't pay enough most he ever made it a radio job was $90 a week, which wasn't much money even then. And at that point he became the person that I knew him as a certified public accountant years ago.

3 (57m 52s):
I called him for a story for our show to ask about the decision to leave radio and Is interesting there was no sentimentality at all. Like nothing

2 (58m 6s):
by that time I had realized that radio was not for me. What happened would be a new program director would come in and if you weren't the apple of that guy's eye then you were out of a job. You got to go start looking for a job again, even though that never happened to me. I could see it happening to other people and I wanted to be in control of my own destiny and I decided that it wasn't going to work out and that was you know, it's not going to work out.

3 (58m 30s):
And that was 1959.

2 (58m 31s):
Yeah the year I was born, right?

4 (58m 35s):
Are those two things

2 (58m 35s):
related not at all? That sounds like they are no they're not.

3 (58m 43s):
I don't know if he wants to take me out of the equation so I don't feel bad for him quitting radio, but I don't believe him. I do believe that even in his private moments today. He doesn't regret. The decision is hearing is so bad these days even with hearing aids. I doubt that. He'll hear the story on the radio or online. I talked to him a couple times this week. He turns 87 on Monday so part of the population in greatest danger right now. He said he and my stepmom are going out. They just figured out how to get groceries delivered. And I'm worried for them.

2 (59m 21s):
Well, all the stars are on record and all the records star on the Sunday morning Carousel coming up for you right now our

3 (59m 26s):
feature top tune of the day number one in the record stores. We visited this week in Baltimore. But Prince of

4 (59m 32s):
Wales together

1 (59m 38s):
beyond the

4 (59m 39s):
crown. Up above the world.

1 (59m 44s):
We're not too proud.

3 (59m 48s):
Well program has produced today. My Diane will our staff includes manual Barry Susan Burton. So he chased in a Jewish on corn or Gillingham it CT Stone Nelson Catherine. Raimondo, Nadia Raymond was shipped Christopher Street album at Tierney and Julie Whitaker. Our executive editor is David kestenbaum special. Thanks today to Tony Gwynn John Elgin Danielle Elliot and Chris Crawford our website this American life.org This American Life is covid-19. The greatest stations by PRX public radio exchange quick programming note. I have mentioned this a few times is going to be the last time I'm going to do it. Maybe you're at home and looking for a new podcast to Listen to If you haven't tried it yet. I really do recommend the Pocket Cast app for listening to podcasts.

3 (1h 0m 30s):
This is the app. That's run by our public radio colleagues and WBEZ and WNYC and NPR in the BBC. I have used this app for years. I am attesting to it personally in my opinion. It is the very best one is the best interface all your it podcast show up is he's a little I don't have to say it's like these little icons you can kind of swish around and move from place to place as you get new favorites and make up a playlist. There's also a discovery feature to help you find new shows to listen do anyway, it is completely free and available in every platform iPhone Android laptop, etc. Etc. So check it out where you get your apps. Thanks, as always to our programs co-founder. Mr. Tory Mountain Tia, you know trying to be civic-minded and conserve on toilet paper. He tried out a bidet the first time this week.

1 (1h 1m 12s):
I was like, oh, well, this isn't really exactly what I

3 (1h 1m 15s):
wanted. I'm Ira Glass back next week with more stories of This American

1 (1h 1m 19s):
Life.