1 (1s):
support for This American Life comes from honey finding promo codes that actually work is an easy unless you use honey, the free browser extension that scans the internet for the best promo code and automatically adds it to your cart get honey for free at join

2 (16s):
honey.com American

1 (19s):
that's join honey.com / American a quick warning. There are curse words that are unbeaten today's episode of the show. If you prefer a beeped version, you can find that at our website This American Life

2 (32s):
dot-org.

1 (34s):
So many people now it's not a theoretical thing. It's here this new virus and they're having to deal with that fact. Lots of people are trying to do the right thing when it's not so clear what the right thing is like Louise it works in construction in Long Island when he got tested and going to get coronavirus you went back to where he was living be sure to house with several other migrants. He's an asylum Seeker here from Central America and he immediately told his landlady because she's pregnant. Didn't want to put her anybody at risk. She said he had to leave. So he decided to isolate the only place he had his car parked outside of a 7-Eleven didn't even want to go inside to get water because he didn't want to infect anybody.

1 (1m 22s):
This is a voicemail message. You left the woman handling his immigration case. It is supplemental. My second thought can I uh get hit with it is Mom and I feel like I don't know what to do. May I love me Caro Paquette on Bulgaria? Persona place as I said in my car because they don't want to contaminate more people look here. Look at him out. There is nothing personal but I don't want people to go through what I'm going

2 (1m 48s):
through. Well, well tell me where

1 (1m 51s):
it hurts to tell the truth that hurt.

2 (1m 54s):
No, but I love it. I don't want

1 (1m 56s):
you have no idea how much he says having at my car. I've been cooked up here. If I didn't have a conscience. I'd be out there but now I don't have that kind of heart. You'll know thing was the coolest song is higher heard this message, but She also tried to do the right thing. Japan him housing dried out the illness. My other things an epidemic of plague of contagion is the time that were tested and we rise to the occasion and we don't or we can't at the damaged area very much wants his team to rise to the occasion. He's vice president of local 3621 of the EMS officers Union in New York City EMS Emergency Medical Services.

1 (2m 37s):
It's part of the fire department is job title is Lieutenant paramedic it besides the stuff. He does with the union. He manages crew of 50 EMS. Is even before the coronavirus outbreak they were showed hundreds of EMS workers in the city. So they were overworked before and even more so now like this past Tuesday Anthony worked a 16-hour shift but station in Brooklyn watching 9-1-1 calls come in. He talked to my coworker Miki Meek a typical day before the coronavirus outbreak was around 4,000 calls this past week. Saw the first big spike.

2 (3m 10s):
I worked last night at 1:00 in the morning after we had just clock. Act in sixty five hundred plus calls at midnight at 1:00 in the morning. There was still 274 jobs holding that's 270 for jobs in the system that at the moment don't have an ambulance to get to them. These are people have called 9-1-1 but no one's been able to be dispatched. Right? And how does that make you feel when you see that you have that many calls still in the queue. It's a little frightening because the you know the have that many calls holding just to give you some perspective yesterday was 6,500 Cole's was the most River done. Never ever. Yeah, even including 9/11

1 (3m 48s):
like that morning. He was in an ambulance. I wanted to call a new Coney Island Man and found in about his wife came home and found her on the floor call type said fever Cardiac Arrest covid case

2 (4m 1s):
and the husband is outside. And they're both healthcare workers. The patient was somebody who work in the nursing home and the husband works in hospital and she was sent home Friday with fever and remain feverish throughout. So I'm sending talking to the husband and he stated to me yesterday. He called where he works. The say he wanted to stay home and take care of his wife and they told him he couldn't because he's an essential employee that the hospital is short-staffed and he needed to come in and at the moment he judged that his wife wasn't critical, you know, she was feverish and stuff.

2 (4m 44s):
But okay, she'll make it through the night and he came home and found her

1 (4m 47s):
found. Her. Dad hates hang

2 (4m 49s):
the 17 years. I've been going on these calls of cardiac arrest or other. Traumatic things and it's never been an issue for me to go up to the family member when we can't do anymore and say I'm sorry and then I put my arm around the patient's family member, you know, I let them cry into my shoulder or hug them or anything along those lines to provide a moment of empathy and sympathy yesterday when I went outside because you happen to be outside and I saw this man's grief in his face. And I saw him just break down and how he felt guilty about not being there and I had to stay six feet away.

2 (5m 34s):
I couldn't Neil next to him like I have with other patients in the past. I couldn't put my arm around him because I'm concerned about my health. Because there's a high potential ality that he has it as well. And I just watched them and it's the first time in 17 years that I actually got back in the truck and I cried. I'm sorry Anthony. Thank you. It's I'm sorry again know what's what's that was a crew members that have about 60 messages that aren't opened at the moment Anthony.

2 (6m 16s):
I tested positive. What do I do? Anthony my wife tested positive. What do I do? own that General

1 (6m 23s):
nature He's worried how many of his crew won't be available soon going by numbers be seen in other places if it goes half of them went up quarantined. Right now in Anthony's crew of 56 people are already out the entire crew of 50 of them have been exposed to somebody with covid-19 at this point in the past the policy for New York Fire Department. EMS workers was when you're exposed to a contagious virus like that. You weren't supposed to come to work but that policy changed about a week and a half ago. Now you stay home only if you're actually showing symptoms Anthony thinks it's because city is so desperate for EMS workers right now,

2 (7m 1s):
so they can squeeze another Over six days out of you before you become symptomatic. I think that's what their motivation is. It's not set explicitly, but the

1 (7m 13s):
crews are short. They need workers. You guys are essential.

2 (7m 17s):
It feels weird Expendable now. Listen, I don't believe that the chief of EMS feels we are expendable. I don't want to put that on her. It feels overall by the department in the city that we're just going to keep putting you out. There because we don't have any other options because we didn't properly prepare for this

1 (7m 39s):
special session for the fire department told us that EMS workers are expected to show up if they've been exposed to the virus because at this point in New York all EMS Personnel have likely been exposed to the virus right now EMS workers. Don't even have a way to get tested to see if they have a virus just like the rest of us. Matheny estimates, they're going to run out of n95 masks and less than a week this coming Friday April 3rd. What are you telling your workers right now?

2 (8m 5s):
Well the tough thing about this is we all signed up for this, you know in a pandemic that is EMS has time to shine right treating viruses is what we do all day long. You name it, you know HIV hepatitis meningitis you this is what we do. But in order to do it effectively, we have to believe that when we're out there with the potential of dying getting hurt or seriously ill little something happens to us. We're going to be taken care of and consensus among the membership is that's not going to happen. The feeling is we're not going to be taken care of. Yes.

2 (8m 46s):
What do you think? The next couple weeks are going to be like, oh, we're not even to the half way point here, you know, they keep talking about flattening the curve word on. Upward tick of that curve

1 (8m 56s):
still do you have any workers who are wanting to

2 (9m 3s):
quit? No, I haven't had any workers that wanted to quit have not heard that

1 (9m 9s):
is like the virus is here. Now. It's testing us all of us EMS workers and doctors and nurses who are now risking their lives, but also delivery people postal workers politicians those of us who are suddenly out of work parents who have no talent for home schooling at all even Those of us who were just don't lock down worried for older relatives bra being tested. So today in our program. We're going to hear from people who are right in the middle of it. Now being tested pretty Extreme Ways bus for the hours out call from the future or somebody in China who's kind of on the other side of this thing WBZ Chicago, it's his American wife. I'm Ira Glass stay with us.

1 (9m 57s):
Yeah, you should sterilize enjoy. Yeah, you just stay alive. Someday. You can be the house no more. You just stay away. That this episode we're featuring original songs that we heard on Instagram created by the British musician and producer Emenike why he's been home alone. Social distancing. He's jokingly calling these songs his Corona EP and they are all him.

1 (10m 38s):
No backing band looping his own voice songs are part PSA part. Pure pop. Just a man bringing some light in a dark moment. Now we turn to act 1 act 1 the inside game. Okay, so this virus is out there and so many Us are scared to get it and wonder what would happen if we did get it and honestly for all the coverage of the illness, we have not heard the people that it's happened to talk at length about that experience very much. One thing that came up here as we've all talked about. This is what is going on in the homes were both parents get the virus. Like how do they manage and just coincidentally one of our co-workers Ben Calhoun has been worried about his brother-in-law Elia Einhorn and his wife Amy who are in that exact situation.

1 (11m 24s):
They were among the first Wave of covid-19 patients in New York City their daughter whose name is Conway. It's just a toddler. So she is in that period of parenting when the kid needs constant vigilance been recorded a call with them. Amy who got sick first was too sick to actually get out of bed. Elia could drag himself around but it was pretty rough going. He was sicker than he had ever been in his life. He said one other detail. Elia has a history of asthma so he's an elevated risk. It also developed GI symptoms throwing up a possible way. Sign that a covid patient is in more danger all this is playing out in a 500 square foot New York City apartment. So picture like three rooms and a bathroom and called them in the afternoon.

1 (12m 7s):
Elia just got in common way to nap. So you'll hear Elliott trying to keep his voice down trying not to wake her. What is just like the logistics of your situation in the apartment right now. Like, where are you and where is Amy and how like how much are you able to either be around each other and not be around each other

2 (12m 26s):
or I haven't seen Amy and like a week like Amy's just been in our room the whole time. So since there's one bathroom she comes out to use the bathroom and otherwise, like I just don't see her and we usually talk for like one or two minutes. But yeah, he's just in our room like and she's really really sick. Like her fever goes up and down and up and down and just when we think it's gone, it comes back and worse and that's

1 (12m 55s):
what she's just like a hundred percent like Locked in the

2 (12m 58s):
room. Yeah locked in the room. Like literally I had I told her like lock the door. So Conway can't come in

1 (13m 5s):
but you gotta so you got you got Conway

2 (13m 7s):
down though. She's asleep. She's asleep. I am gonna I just saw Amy. I get to see her like three times a day for two minutes and I said to her we are going to have to do such a strict regimen to get this kid back to normal life after this because I am like, you know, I'm trying to keep her life as normal as possible. So because she already can't see Amy. She can't go outside, you know. So I'm just like I've become like the biggest fucking pushover. Like I said Amy, she had like a tasting menu before bed. Like we usually let her have a little snack if she wants it.

2 (13m 47s):
She's like adding things having me get up and go to the kitchen and get more stuff and I like I like can hard getting up to go get her something. It's just like oh dude, so she must have had like bites of like 7 snacks and like it's ridiculous, but I just

1 (14m 5s):
want to imagine that The parent you're just like you're having all these needs that are unmet right now. And right now you're having a need that I can meet. So let me just like throw whatever I can in there.

2 (14m 17s):
Exactly exactly. I looked I looked at us we were reading one of those Mo Williams books. You know that like,

1 (14m 25s):
yeah like Piggy and but elephant.

2 (14m 27s):
Yeah, we were reading I don't know why but she wanted to read the baby one and there's two pages that are mirrors and I looked at us and I was like we look, so glazed we look like a college freshman who just discovered weed and smoke half an hour, you know me and who and a half year old look terrible and I'm wearing my mask, you know, because there's this theory about the viral load getting bigger, you know what I mean with more exposure so Like just to give you sort of a scene report here. It looks like think about a normal Brooklyn size Department. It looks like there was 50 toddlers who had an unsupervised birthday party here.

2 (15m 8s):
So like from my vantage point on the couch looking out. The first layer is like a pegs game where you like push buttons in two colors. The second layer is all these three by two foot huge Paw Patrol pages to color. The next level is a Arm that seems to explode if exploded the next level are all the Plato's strewn around the ground because I just like can't pick it up.

1 (15m 34s):
Do you have all your Logistics covered like groceries? Like how are you doing groceries? How are you? Like, I don't know like laundry

2 (15m 42s):
like laundry has been a problem. I'm waiting for Amy to get better because we have to wash it in the bathtub and I just can't physically do it right now. Like I can't stress to you how tired I am.

1 (15m 57s):
Like you're just too

2 (15m 58s):
tired. I'm just too tired man. I like can't sit up that long and so I'm waiting for a me to either get better so that she can watch Conway and I can take longer and do it slowly. Or because by the end of the day when Conley goes to sleep, I'm fine. Like fry totally fried. Like I can't even stand up

1 (16m 17s):
because you're the only person doing Conway right like you're

2 (16m 19s):
like, oh yeah hundred percent. Yeah. Amy hasn't seen her in a week. It's like I'm just with her like yeah now 24/7

1 (16m 29s):
Um, do you feel like you've like I feel like if I were you I would keep like waiting to feel like I'd like bottomed out like like be like is this like is this the bottom? Is this the bottom like I might like I'm just like waiting for that upswing, you

2 (16m 47s):
know. I keep waiting for it. And I think it comes I thought it came like four times and then like today, I'm the most tired. I've been the whole time. So I just don't know and it's like on the one hand. I mean we have like we have food we have water we have electricity. I mean we have everything we need if this is all that ever happens, it'll be a Triumph. You know it seriously. Well if this is all it happens, but it's just the scariest part. Is it going to go into our lungs? You know like yeah, right when I start to feel better. I think like, you know, they there Seas it sort of shows its these like ground glass.

2 (17m 28s):
Sort of deposits in people's lungs and I've started thinking of that as like your lungs turning to Glass and I keep reading these stories out of Wuhan about these young Physicians that are like my age. I mean relatively young Physicians that are dying from this and I had to stop reading it because it's like I just can't keep reading about people's lungs metaphorically turning to Glass and it's just making me worry too much that it's going to happen to our family. Yeah so scared and not be able to protect your Animal you against this like Insidious element of it and that's why I like like that's why I emailed you guys that stuff like I don't know if anything's going to happen and if it does happen, it's going to happen so quickly.

2 (18m 11s):
I don't have time to deal with anything. I don't have time to deal with getting my Affairs in order, you know, so I emailed you and catcher like very perfunctory. Like here's here's how to do, you know like what me and Ami want Here's our financial stuff. Here's like, you know because I just have no fucking clue and that's the worst part if we could be guaranteed that that wasn't going to happen. This would just be uncomfortable and find you know, we could laugh about in a different way, but it's the fear that any second one of us could just take really ill and maybe worse.

2 (18m 54s):
How do you think the economy is doing? She's physically she's doing fine. But she's showing all these behaviors about being upset and she's actively talking about it. Now like every bedtime she wants me to tell her stories about everybody getting sick me getting sick her getting sick Amy getting sick you getting sick and Catrin and your kids know like everyone in our family getting sick because like now part of our story. Yes. They trying to process it. What what? Yeah exactly. We tell her it's the Game, everybody's playing the Insight game right now and soon it's going to end but for now, this is what's happening. And these are the rules of the inside game.

2 (19m 37s):
But she keeps saying like Teddy. I'm so tired. I'm so tired and we're snuggling a lot like, you know, the pediatrician even said look if you both get tested positive you can both just come out and you can just take off your masks and be around Connolly, but with all this research about the viral load build up we've had an infectious disease doctor that we've been talking to that said, you know, don't do that, you know, you can snuggle or if you need to she's a toddler you can't control that but like As well as possible. So I try to like put her between my legs are like have my foot on or just to like touch your little bit, you know, but it's been sad man. I mean she like she said to me like I so sad I so sad.

2 (20m 18s):
None of my friends want to come to my house. Like everything that she draws she's like, this is for my friends or I made this for my mommy. This is for Mommy. So I mean, you know, I don't want to and she's doing fine. And then on the other hand, she's really feeling like her age give lot of like really lonely cut off. She keeps talking to me, but how sick he is.

2 (21m 0s):
And I tell her like you know, Mom is sick, but mom is getting better and you know, and like I didn't even tell her I was sick, but she somehow figured it out. I don't know if it's the mask what so she says daddy sick and I said, yeah Daddy's a little bit sick, but he's okay. I mean, I feel traumatic feeling so upset about it. But again, it's like it's all like like are these the last conversations that I'm ever going to have? Yes, you're getting the ugly cry.

2 (21m 49s):
You're getting ugly. I've only let myself. I bought it a little bit.

1 (21m 58s):
I wish I could do something for you guys.

2 (22m 8s):
Your regular Barbara Walters bed you getting it out of me.

1 (22m 18s):
We have the kids face time tonight with that. Would that be

2 (22m 21s):
helpful? Yeah, that would be just for her and for me to just sit down for a minute, honestly. It's like one of the only times I can rest when she's

1 (22m 31s):
awake we can do more of that to like if if the kids can keep her occupied like on FaceTime.

2 (22m 39s):
Then honestly you guys are great. Now. She's waking up the Peril of making any noise in this environment, but hopefully she'll go back to sleep. You guys have been amazing. Just FaceTiming with your kids is amazing. Yeah, we just got the right at the fuck

1 (22m 57s):
out. Ellie einhard with then Calhoun. It's a producer in a show that was recorded over a week ago at this point today. Amy is much better. She's actually up and around Elia got a lot worse after that call. But now he's also feeling better Conway is presumed to have had a mild case of the virus. She's doing fine.

2 (23m 27s):
I'm talking about

1 (23m 28s):
17 some of you don't know what I mean. When others one too many people on the streets Tree on the ground like what's that? To do with me like what dubes don't show don't come out don't know what you're doing at your house. Why is endeavor mask covering your mouth as if the virus spread and round and round and combative so you don't know what that means. No. No, you don't understand.

1 (24m 17s):
Back to the view from the park. So one of The Producers here at our show Emanuel Barry got to know reporter Jeong fan back when we're doing our Hong Kong show this past fall Chang's the staff writer at the New Yorker manual and she have stayed in touch since and Emmanuel was the editor for story that jae-yong did here a few weeks ago giant has a mom who lives in a medical facility in New York City Jang tweets about her all the time. Right now John Youngs in the situation that a lot of us are in word for our parents but a much more extreme version of that the most of us are dealing with like already so much has happened with her. Mom Emanuel checked in with her. How are you?

2 (24m 54s):
I am trying to hang in there. I guess. It's the most optimistic way of putting it. Yeah.

1 (25m 3s):
Yeah. I mean I follow you on Twitter. I see that you tweet a lot. Your mom but I don't actually exactly know what what your mother's ailment as I just know she's hospitalized. Can you what what what's going on there?

2 (25m 20s):
My mother doesn't have control of any part of her body at this point except for her eyeballs the movement of her eyeballs, so she is completely cognitively intact and as sharp as she ever has been But she's imprisoned in a body that refuses to cooperate in any way. She hasn't left her bed her hospital bed except to go to the ICU the last six years. The only time she's ever seen any sliver of the sky is in those few minutes when paramedics push her from the hospital entrance into an Ellen's so when I visit her I feel like I'm bringing the world to her

1 (26m 20s):
her mother. Yeah Lee has ALS she's lived in a facility for the past six years. She always has an aid by her side John's Apartment is just a three-minute walk away. She visits every day. Sometimes twice a day unless she's traveling for work when Diane visits they talk well, Well, mostly giant box jelly spell things out using her eyes in an alphabet chart. It's slow but that doesn't stop yali from expressing herself.

2 (26m 48s):
Sometimes she tries to tell me bawdy jokes over the alphabet chart that she spells with her eyes and it'll take me an hour and I don't think that she's requesting a medication or that some part of her like she'll mention but and I'll be like, oh, it's our but hurting like you you know what you have an affection. She's trying to tell me about a joke. So that's so that gives you a little bit of sense of my mom. She is someone who is who is relentlessly truthful whenever a piece comes out of mine.

2 (27m 30s):
Her first question is read me all the negative tweets about it. What is the criticism like? What are your what? Are your troll thing? And I know that sounds absurd and funny, but I think that comes from immigrants survival mentality. She wants to know what I need to prepare myself for in order to survive.

1 (28m 1s):
So what what happened last week take me through what happened last

2 (28m 5s):
week. Remember? My mother is always in the best of times. My mother is a mild infection away from Death in the best of times. The doctors have told me and again and again, she will die of pneumonia. It's just a matter of time. You should already on a respirator a machine that brings for her. There's not that much that can be done. So when I hear news about viruses entering nursing homes, every nerve in my body is on Full

1 (28m 38s):
arm. Giant once told me that her mother lives for her, but the reverse is also true giant lives for her mom. They're each other's only family, which means John Young is a very active family member at her mom's facility the staff knows her they know how protective she is. So in early March when she heard about the virus spreading in nursing homes. She called said hey, I know it's a stressful time, but could you ask doctors and nurses to wear gloves and masks before getting too close to my mom. She says she could hear Tone in her own voice anxious and demanding.

2 (29m 13s):
This is not a tone of ever taken with any member of my mom's to the facility for as long as she's been there. But I was I was unnerved and freaked out yeah enough but what I was reading, but I called first thing in the morning to say that and I think the staff on both picked up was very annoyed with me and just said basically said I can't do that. Like I can't I don't I can't tell. So other people hear what to do and then I think she thought she hung up. She didn't actually hang up and she said y'all these daughter just called and she thinks that like we have to wear gloves and you know masks like around every patient in the hospital and there was I heard laughter all around and then really, unfortunately I heard her say I still to this day do not know who that staff member was, but she said, you know, and they're the for Chinese To be frank I wasn't offended I wasn't like, oh my God, this is so racist.

2 (30m 16s):
I was just worried. I was worried about having offended her. I was worried about offending people who are the first line of defense

1 (30m 24s):
so she put her coat on over her pajamas and ran over to the facility, but when she got there, there were security guards out front and big signs. John Young was so flustered. She doesn't actually remember exactly what the sign said, but the message was clear. She wasn't getting in to see her mom. How could you be sure her mom was okay, if she couldn't see her

2 (30m 45s):
I became crazed. I was calling my best friend who are telling me that I wasn't being a rational functional person. I had a dream about moving my mother to a different planet. I know that sounds absurd and it's my subconscious me if my unconscious so I'm not wholly responsible for it, but I think some part of me. I knew that there was no corner on Earth that was safe. How would that even how would that even work with a move? She is on a feeding tube. She's on a ventilator. She's hooked up on so many different whirring whirling machines And the best of times a move would be would require six people not including the transport

1 (31m 38s):
talking to John Young. I noticed she couldn't help herself going down. These thought spirals far-fetched ways to save her. Mom all the things that could go wrong. And I think that's because she can't do anything and she wants to badly but there isn't a way

2 (31m 53s):
out. Where could she possibly go not in my apartment my apart my time. Almost Studio size apartment will not be able to fit all the equipment that she needs and I wouldn't be I would not be sick to care for her by myself. Then what other facility is safe like what other facility in York City is safe what other facility in America safe

1 (32m 18s):
and so you're basically at a point where you're like there I can't there's nothing I can there's nothing I can

2 (32m 23s):
do. I'd basically at the point where my unconscious is premium plans to take my mother to Mars. My mind goes to very strange places where I think about being told that My mother said until later has to be. You that my mother sent till later? ER is better. Are you I'm sorry. It's hard for me to even come up with the grammar for this because it's so hard that my mother's mental later. Our could better serve someone who's younger and

1 (32m 59s):
healthier. This hasn't happened. Nobody suggested her mom give up her been a leader, but she can't stop thinking of the possibility of

2 (33m 7s):
it and then my mind goes down a rabbit hole. I start looking up surgeries were I could give up half my lung maybe so that this healthy person can still be saved because I because it's about it's about lungs filling with fluids. Right? And I think well if I can say that other person that my mother gets to provincial leader and your mind just spends hours in those rabbit holes, which are completely is completely useless right? Because it's not the mean just these are not my decisions. What I'm suggesting is probably totally insane and scientifically medically impractical

1 (33m 47s):
dying did get a small bit of relief. She managed to get in for one last visit that was two weeks ago. What did you guys say to each

2 (33m 56s):
other? Um Because I am her daughter. I'm her caregiver. I am her conduit to the world. I have a responsibility to soothe her Panic not to stoke it. it I said things to her that I think I would have wanted someone else to say to me, which is Is this is going to be okay? We won't get through this. I will see you again very soon. I don't know when but it's going to be very soon.

2 (34m 39s):
and and we will get through this together. Other but they weren't were than necessarily believed if I were to be totally

1 (34m 52s):
honest. First she talked with senior Hospital staff and they told her there's a significant chance that coronavirus will enter the facility that she should be mentally prepared for what that means during thought about staying with her. Mom just never leaving that visit becoming her mom's caretaker, but her mother's longtime aide convinced giant. She'd be more help to her mom outside and promised that she would stay with you Ali as long as she could manage at the time. They were hopeful it would only be a few weeks.

2 (35m 21s):
I mean, I doubt myself. I don't know but I made the right decision. I I think that if my mom is going to be if she's not going to survive the illness and I should be the one in there and then I mean and then I my mind goes to Dark Places. I think well, who cares if I don't pay the rent who cares if just everything else goes into absolute Madness. All I wanna be is with my

1 (35m 47s):
mom. Yeah. I mean, what do you think your mom would want you to do in this

2 (35m 51s):
situation? It was it was. It was really hard to leave her if she began crying just hysterically crying because they think she knew that despite my assurances. that that it would be a long time before I saw her again. and and I think I think she would. Good. I think she would want me to stay safe.

2 (36m 32s):
I think she would want me to find a way of coping through this crisis without. The coming to it without being crushed by it.

1 (36m 51s):
At the end of February John did a story for the show about a Chinese man reporting on the virus in Wuhan and one of the videos is journalist makes he introduces us to this guy. He calls coming whose father recently died because of coronavirus bombing talks about being with his father in the last hours of his life about holding his hand as his heart beat drops to zero for John Young. It was one of the most emotional moments in the story for obvious

2 (37m 18s):
reasons his story. What's one that I thought? thought shots contained such such pain and Terror that that was unimaginable to me at the time. I'm and now I realize that last Tuesday might be the last time I saw I last used a might be the last time. I will ever I mean that might have been the last time I saw my mother I can't even get the tenses Street.

2 (38m 3s):
The grammar doesn't compute in my mind. And and I thought that almonds experience with absolutely the most devastating. And then I think about how how lucky arming was. Was I know that if my mother contracts? It's covid-19. She will almost certainly die. died and I and I also know that that I also know that when I get the call from the hospital.

2 (38m 44s):
Oil letting me know that she's been infected. And I won't be permitted to go in there and I can see my Mother's Window every day. There's a little Park that separates my apartment building. From my mom's hospital and when I stand in the park, I can see her window. I can almost see the Orchid that that me and my friend brought her a couple of weeks ago or at least I think I can see it. It and I think about I think about the fact that when she's dying if she contracts the virus those last hours that are mean held his father's hand Maybe.

2 (39m 43s):
That maybe I'll be standing in the park. Just looking up at her window. No, maybe that's the closest. Maybe that's the closest. I'll be able to get her get to her in her last hours.

1 (40m 8s):
Manuel Berry is a producer in our show coming up a tiny. Tiny virus breaks up in a jail cell. That's in a minute. I'm just gonna go public radio when our program continues. Support for This American Life comes from

2 (40m 24s):
honey. We all shop online and finding promo codes that actually work

1 (40m 28s):
isn't easy unless you use honey, the free browser extension that scans the internet for the best

2 (40m 34s):
promo code and automatically adds it to your cart just download honey to your computer shop like normal click the apply coupons button at checkout and watch the prices drop

1 (40m 45s):
not using honey is literally passing up free money.

2 (40m 48s):
It's a hundred percent free to use and installs. In just a few seconds plus it's backed by PayPal. So it's secure and reliable

1 (40m 55s):
get honey for free at join honey.com

2 (40m 59s):
American that's join honey.com /

1 (41m 3s):
American This American Life Myra glass today's program the test. The Corona virus is here. There are people who right now are forced to deal with it. We hear stories of how they face that challenge. We've arrived at like three of our show act three outbreak break out. So another way that the coronavirus outbreak has had a huge impact on people's lives prisons and jails around the country are starting to release inmates. They wouldn't have otherwise wouldn't have released as early. Anyway try to protect prisoners Behind Bars from getting sick Correctional institutions as you Can imagine or Petri dishes of germs and microbes but it's number that I'm seeing as I'm recording this more than 50 inmates at Rikers Island in New York City. That's just one jail here correctional officers there and elsewhere also have the virus now.

1 (41m 47s):
So the city is letting three hundred inmates go right next door New Jersey ordered a thousand inmates to be released this past week using similar decisions like that. They're not as widespread in Ohio, Illinois, Oklahoma, California and Texas since the crisis hit in San Francisco the public defender's office. Is the release of quote all people who are immunocompromised or over the age of 60 producer Sean Cole talk with somebody who made that cut. There are really two factors under consideration when figuring out who to release from jail or prison amid, the covid-19 outbreak one how severe was the crime and then to house the person's health how vulnerable are they and given these two criteria one of the best candidates available for release?

2 (42m 31s):
Hi Terry. Yes, sir

1 (42m 33s):
was Terry Smith Hi, how are

2 (42m 35s):
you? Ma'am? It sir.

1 (42m 41s):
I can hear you. Yeah, can you hear

2 (42m 43s):
me? I've got to get some privacy. I'm going to a spot where

1 (42m 45s):
I got ahold of Terry at a residential treatment program for veterans called Fresh Start. They have facilities all over the country. This one again is in San Francisco the court sent him there last week when it became clear that he might be in danger sitting in a jail cell. He'd been in the county jail for nearly a year charged with breaking into a couple of garages. Thing violent. This was just his latest stint on these charges. He's been in and out a few times and it's 64 soon to be 65 years old. Terry has a whole pile up of comorbidities. That might sound a little overwhelming when I list them. He has a seizure disorder PTSD from serving in Vietnam and also being abused when he was a foster kid.

1 (43m 25s):
He's a recovering heroin addict and most pressingly right now Terry suffers from chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder COPD Yeah, it's a lung disease that already sent him to the hospital a couple of times which is why he got so frightened when he heard about the thing that's apparently coming for everybody's lungs inmates at San Francisco County. Jail are allowed to watch TV from 7:00 to 8:00 in the morning. So he just saw it on the news.

2 (43m 50s):
We watch your game. We've seen it get worse and worse and people started panicking in jail, and they don't want to panic in jail you get panic as you know, you know what that word was out that you these two people. No, we ain't going back to our bones. We're not get 4/3. We do not eat any meals

1 (44m 6s):
you didn't eat meals for three

2 (44m 8s):
days or three days

1 (44m 9s):
because because you were worried about getting the

2 (44m 12s):
virus well because so when he served the meals, right? Mmm, so you have a guy who hands you an empty tray. That's one man. And then there's five people who put something on the tray the beans and then he puts it on the jello or they the salad that's five people including the guy who put strain on that six people. Yeah. That's the guy that taste tray at the end and stacks them. So and puts on a cart. No. No, we're at seven people right? They're not wearing masks. Yeah, well, I'm glad that were in math. See you think that you think they're

1 (44m 44s):
not taken enough precautions there in the

2 (44m 46s):
jail. No, sir. I mean they're doing the best he can but I think they should still still servers should be wearing masks. There's no hand sanitizer. So no one wants to eat the food. They're scared. A lot of older guys start, you know, trying to teach these young guys dude. You need to like start working on your bid areas. You need to start really not touching each other. He stopped and touching Having story aware of how to really to do address this just miss

1 (45m 18s):
Tara has served three years not in prison in jail pretrial waiting for his case to be resolved his lawyer a guy named Eric want says that's the amount of time. He should serve for the crimes. He's accused of and Eric has been filing motions trying to get a settlement of some kind maybe a plea deal but it kept getting delayed and delayed. And then the virus

2 (45m 39s):
hit I was scared and I guess I would be honestly I was scared I was scared to do will they meet gets advice and die up here Eric Saved My Life by doing what he did for me. Eric saved my life in the judge.

1 (45m 56s):
It just seems so crazy that it that it was a virus that essentially came to your

2 (45m 59s):
rescue. Yeah a virus.

1 (46m 3s):
That was all it took for the criminal justice system to kick into gear a deadly Scourge that's devastating the

2 (46m 8s):
Old

1 (46m 14s):
so Terry's no longer Behind Bars and walks out into a city. That's completely on lockdown. Remember San Francisco was one of the first cities to issue a shelter-in-place ordinance. He told me he had all these fantasies about what he would do when he was free again see his girlfriend say hi to his friends instead. He's not seeing anyone except the other guys in the facility.

2 (46m 34s):
My granddaughter sleep. She's really close to me real close Okay, I could Wait, I'm getting out of here go get my baby and put her in my arms, you know me. So she said she was you're probably you're out. Why can't you come see me? I want to make sure when I come see you. I'm okay to come see you. I got to make sure I'm not bringing her nothing. You don't mean

1 (46m 55s):
it's like these two opposite things being incarcerated and not being incarcerated in just ever so slightly closer to each other when Terry wasn't looking his life kind of looks a lot like other people's in America right now happening in door. Is looking at the outside world like it's an exhibit. But listen to how he talks about

2 (47m 13s):
it. I can look right now from the kitchen. I can see the beach one block for me to the right one block for me to write is to park Golden Gate Park 10 blocks down. I can see the ocean. I see it every night. I watch the sense of ice at last night and watch the sunset bread. So want to hear my breakfast I had an avocado and banana.

1 (47m 36s):
It's the same words that a lot of us are saying to each other on the phone or Skype or whatever. This is what I'm looking at on my window. This is what I ate. But for Terry, there are celebration Shawn call is one of the producers of our shell. So what am I? And I'm too scared to go outside and

2 (48m 14s):
it's called the corona

1 (48m 18s):
Corona at 4:00. Hello from the other side. Okay. So Emanuel Barry who you heard earlier in the show and act to a manual used to live in China and she's been texting back and forth. Fourth with friends there since January when the virus shut down parts of that country. Now as American cities are shutting down a lot of our friends in China are texting her asking how she's doing. Here's a manual the other day. I got this text from China. It said a word from your future. It will get better today. We were on the street and I almost felt normal.

1 (48m 60s):
It arrived during a hard week. I was worried about my dad is high risk money. My friends who work in hospitals my best friend who's supposed to have a kid any day now, I'm constantly thinking about how uncertain each day feels and I'm craving normal. My friend Rebecca came through our sent it she lives in Shanghai and I called her to hear more about this normal.

2 (49m 25s):
Oh, hey, I told my husband the stuff. He's like in the hey, yo Lillian. the ocean if you again

1 (49m 35s):
Rebecca is American but she's lived in China for 17 years. She's married to a Chinese man. Her kids. Go to Chinese schools. He's

2 (49m 44s):
carrying a hunk of frozen meat

1 (49m 50s):
wait for what? Is he

2 (49m 52s):
cooking? I think he's hungry and he wants to cut a piece off of it

1 (49m 57s):
husband out of the way. We talked China of course is had a much more aggressive or Once the virus then anything that's happened in the states so far. They locked down Wuhan Trace contacts isolated people who are sick sometimes separating them from their families the government mandated quarantines, the governor of New York has suggested it might be four to nine months before stay-at-home orders are lifted, but in Wuhan just two months in the city is set to open up again and in cities like Beijing and Shanghai, the few new cases being reported are coming from Travelers. They've been told to resume life as normal

2 (50m 35s):
How you doing?

1 (50m 37s):
How am I doing? I don't know like I think I've accepted that it's going to be tough. But part of me just wants to like know that it's going to be okay at the end of it. Even if it's going to be so like if it's going to be difficult if that makes sense, you know,

2 (50m 57s):
you want to know what's going to be okay in the end.

1 (50m 59s):
I mean, what was it? What was it like for you two months ago? Yeah, it's I mean, it's it definitely feels

2 (51m 7s):
different now. I mean two months ago. It just felt like yeah, just so uncertain and things changing by the day. Yeah, so it's just every every week was different

1 (51m 22s):
at this point. Your may be on the other side of this possibly on the other side of this like what what does that look

2 (51m 30s):
like? Well, okay. So yeah things are you know feeling much better here? I think it just feels like, you know taking off like a really hot jacket, you know went like when you're wearing a winter jacket and like all of a sudden the weather gets warmer and you're like, I don't need to be wearing this anymore. Yeah, you take it off and you've got short sleeve shirt short sleeves on and you just feel just

1 (51m 55s):
relaxed. Can you take the train now? Like what's that? What are the trains

2 (51m 59s):
like? Yes, I just saw a picture from the train today and it would you know at the beginning the trains were the Subways were still running. I think the whole way through but back in the beginning, you know, there was like one or two people per car and now all the seats. At least the photo I saw all the seats were being satin, but I haven't taken the subway since January

1 (52m 26s):
you have a is a reason for that or is it just

2 (52m 30s):
um, I think I just told myself that that was something that I could control and I just thought well if I can get it there on my electric bike or my bicycle, then I'll go to those places. But if I just I stopped taking taxis. And I stopped taking the subway, even though they're all running. It's just kind of my personal. You know thing that I decided I wasn't going to do

1 (52m 56s):
as I talk to Rebecca and other friends in China. I've noticed this thing when they talk about things returning to normal, they start describing all these things that aren't

2 (53m 5s):
normal, you know, everyone's still wearing a

1 (53m 8s):
mask here. We're told not to wear masks in some cities in China masks were mandatory. All right, like I saw like the

2 (53m 17s):
other day I saw someone taking a selfie and then like halfway through the selfie they were like, oh shoot.

1 (53m 22s):
I'm still worried. My mask they had deleted be remember take it

2 (53m 25s):
off and then take the selfie

1 (53m 26s):
again. What does that mask? Does it sort of feel like this reminder to you that it's like oh this isn't normal.

2 (53m 35s):
Yeah, yeah, it's kind of like because actually the government said you can take off your masks. They said you know, they had a press conference and and the government official like took their masks off and it was like you can take your masks off. You only need them, you know, when you go into like certain public areas, but in reality most people are still wearing

1 (54m 0s):
them and it's not just that people are still wearing masks. Temperature taking is now everywhere.

2 (54m 7s):
So when you go into any public space, and also when you enter any housing compound, you know, like an apartment complex. There's someone at the gate with a little you know body sensor, you know thermometer and they, you know, put it up to your forehead or they put it on your wrist and take your temperature.

1 (54m 29s):
The newest thing for Rebecca to get used to has been this QR Code system basically sorts people should you be quarantined or not? It's a little unclear how people are being sorted into these categories, but it involves people's locations being tracked through their cell phone. If you've recently visited a hospital been around a sick person bought a train or plane ticket. It's being monitored. The code is like an admission ticket to do anything in this city. I

2 (54m 57s):
went to visit a friend. At their apartment complex and I had to first of all I had to register my name phone number passport number and then I also had to show them on my phone a like a QR code like a like a little square code that shows that I've been in Shanghai for the past 14 days. So I get a green code and you know, the only way they can find that out is you know, they have my phone records and like my GPS. It's or whatever. I don't know how they find it. But but that's not something that I don't know or is that possible in the

1 (55m 35s):
u.s. I don't I don't think I don't think so.

2 (55m 38s):
Now that offers that gives me that makes me feel like I have a sense of security to be honest because I look at it and I say, oh well, I've been here for the past 14 days. I you know, I'm in the safe Zone, but you know, and if you go elsewhere if you maybe go to another city or you Travel abroad and you come back then you're in a yellow zone or a red zone

1 (56m 2s):
to play a game of basketball. You need a QR code and then when you get to the park a volunteer take your temperature before letting you in

2 (56m 10s):
they do limit the numbers of people going into the park across the street from my house, but there's just it's always lots of people there now, but I think they still I do not think they have let the ladies do their square dancing at night. I think that is not back to normal. So usually at night time like around 7 p.m. In all the parks, you'll have like older women and older men doing dance routines line dancing routines and that has stopped and I don't think it's come back

1 (56m 47s):
Rebecca says, they discourage it because the crowds would be too much. I doubt that our future in the u.s. Looks anything like what Rebecca's describing but everything feels so chaotic here. And the idea that eventually that feeling stops you get used to the new normal I can take comfort in that. Emmanuel Barry I see the lights go out on Broadway.

1 (57m 54s):
Life went on beyond the policy. They all bought catalyzed and let their long ago. We have the concert out in Brooklyn to watch the island Bridges blow. We went right on the show Rebecca. My speed is today by Dana Shivers Nadia Raymond people put together today's show from their own homes the amount of wound me a manual Barry Susan Burton Ben Calhoun Zoe Chase young Cole nor Gil Damien grave Hannah, Jeff Ewald Nicky Nicko intimacy Stone Nelson Catherine raimondo.

1 (58m 46s):
Been failing Willie Sullivan, Christopher sutala and Mac Tierney. I managing editors Diane. We were executive editors David Kessler bomb. Better thanks today to Clara. Mpho Patty lions and everybody at Meals on Wheels and Savannah Georgia James dharmic jr. Sammy Chase and Brawn Vicki. Borrow Daniel Harris Peter McNally George cukor's Jamie. Vo Adnan Khan Alex. Cullinan Sky Kim Soo, Chuck Liang, Christina, Pena and seagull Goa a website where to pass the time and lockdowns in your own home. You can stream our Archive of nearly seven hundred episodes for absolutely free This American Life dot-org is American life is to covid public radio stations by PRX. The public radio exchange sport for This American Life comes from constant contact with email marketing automation.

1 (59m 29s):
Tools designed for small businesses. Send the right email at the right time their Suite of tools now also includes a website builder more at Constant Contact.com X is always drug programs co-founder. Mr. Torme out to you no interest in quarantine last week. You got me every single day to make sure I was okay, but I don't know. I don't think that he had the right list of symptoms you get asking me.

2 (59m 53s):
Oh is there but hurting

1 (59m 55s):
America Glass back next week with more stories of This American Life? they say