1 (1s):
Support for This American Life comes from Squarespace make your website your own with the ability to customize look and feel settings products and more for a free trial of your new website. Visit. Squarespace.com / American and enter American Squarespace. Think it dream it make it. Hi everybody, Ira Glass here. So our staff is busy reporting out stories for next week's show and for other upcoming shows and we had a rerun schedule for this week. And we decided in this stressful time. It might be nice to keep things light and funny. And so that's what this episode is and it has not one but two of the most popular stories we have ever put on the air the first version of this episode was broadcast over 20 years ago back when we were distributed by Public Radio International and our episodes began.

1 (53s):
Little PRI audio logo, which I don't know. I kind of miss

2 (58s):
from PRI Public Radio International from PRI having PRI public radio and public radio public radio radio International.

1 (1m 10s):
What could be more American than the person who sees something they've never done before dreams. They could do it goes after that dream. Well, let's begin today with a woman who dreams of directing a play in the small town where she lives a college town somewhere below the Mason-Dixon Line in the hills of Appalachia a town, which will remain for our purposes today. Unnamed I don't think she'd ever directed and she claimed to have acted and it was never really quite clear. Just what her credentials were, but she had she had managed to convince the local theater Department of this college that she should direct a production of Peter Pan when he was in the tenth grade in 1973.

1 (1m 53s):
Jacket saw her production and like everybody else in town. He heard about it for weeks beforehand slowly but surely, you know, you began to hear, you know, sort of rumors about this production. For example, I know that they had spent a lot of money renting these flying apparatus has out of New York and apparently they're only a is like one company and a handful of these apparatuses. And so to get them was a major coup. This is a story not just a mediocre play or a terrible play. When it comes right down to it, it's not even a story about a play. this is a story about a fiasco and about what makes a fiasco and one ingredient of many Fiasco's is that great massive heart-wrenching chaos and failure are more likely to occur when great ambition is coming to put on plans are big expectations Great Hopes at their highest and what you have to understand is that everybody in the sort of community understood that there were there was certainly a sort of are Of everyone sort of reaching beyond their own grasp.

1 (2m 59s):
Every actor was sort of in a role. That was just a little too big for them every aspect of the set and the crew and you know, rumors had sort of cooked around, you know, there was this huge crew there were lots of things being painted but this in fact is one of the criteria for greatness is that everyone is just about to reach just beyond their grasp because that that is when greatness can occur. That's that's right. That's right and maybe greatness could have

2 (3m 25s):
occurred

1 (3m 35s):
Well today in our program would happens when greatness does not occur what happens. In fact, when fumble leads to error leads to mishap and before you know it you have left of the realm of ordinary mistake and chaos and you have entered into the more ethereal specialized Realm. A fiasco Today's Show Fiasco's a philosophical inquiry perhaps the first-ever is far as we know into what makes a fiasco what takes our ordinary lives that extra distance

2 (4m 8s):
into Fiasco from WBEZ

1 (4m 11s):
Chicago. It's This American Life. I'm Ira Glass. There is much much more to learn about Fiasco's in this hour

2 (4m 18s):
stay with us.

1 (4m 32s):
We Begin our show with this true Fable of Peter Pan in act 1 opening night Opening night comes and you know will almost everybody in the area and the you know, ten mile radius of this theater know somebody in this production. So the place is pretty much packed and I don't know if you remember the opening moment of Peter Pan, but it's the three little kids sleeping in their bed.

1 (5m 21s):
And Peter Pan comes flying in the window. And in this in this particular production, the there's a big bad with all the three kids in it. Off to the left. I remember is a big huge wardrobe and there's a large window there and a little Bureau and Peter Pan comes in and you know, it has the little speech where he says, you know, anybody can fly with just a little magic dust one can fly and and Peter Pan sort of sprinkles this magic dust in the air and sure enough the kids sort of suddenly just Lurch into the air and it becomes clear right away that that the people that they've hired to run these flying apparatus is it's really aren't quite clear on how they actually work.

1 (6m 4s):
So instead of the kids sort of sailing, you know, gracefully to and fro they sort of hang in the air like pop. It's just sort of dangling there instead of getting jerked up an inch or two or back and forth and they sometimes you just stationary just just yeah just hanging there like a like a like a

2 (6m 21s):
spider

1 (6m 26s):
and then a several of them start to sort of circumscribe these Circles in the air where it's clear that the the people running the the machines have just sort of set them off on these kind of oval courses that spiral farther and farther out and if you're sitting in the audience, it was clearly a sense of fear on the faces of these people of the act the actors the actors. Actually you could sense their lack of confidence. Yeah. This is in. The the people running the machines in the back so they can wait and and the audience reaction to this point is just are they laughing?

1 (7m 9s):
No one is laughing everyone. This is one of the great things about audiences especially in a live theater production is that they're very forgiving they want the show to work and so everyone has sort of gripping their chair a little tightly, right, you know, we feel for them, you know, they're up there. They're embarrassing themselves for us, you know all identify with them. We are become them. And so the It's I think was very forgiving and very understanding of this this moment. But there was one one moment that in this first opening scene that kind of put the audience on notice and that's when as the kids are sort of jerking up and down and swing it back and forth and certain and sort of going around in these ovals at one point the little the littlest one.

1 (7m 51s):
The little boy is is sort of being flowing around a little too a little too hard. Oh, yes the least Mass to whatever the Machinery is doing to him, right? Okay, so and and so he's flying around the circle and the audience sort of sees this coming and there's a real sense of pain and and gripping of the chair and White Knuckle in this as the kids suddenly does a just a an enormous Splat into the Wardrobe. I mean and it's clear that he's hurt, you know, and he comes off of it sort of, you know, a little dazed then of course, he's jerked up in the air a little bit and often a Too high so that he suddenly sort of in the workings.

1 (8m 33s):
He said he's got a left the stage itself. He's now up there with the lights, you know, none of them. They just thought of something you just plummet back down to the stage and and be caught up just before he hit the floor and and it was it was hard to watch because as you can tell it's a it's an incredibly funny moment. But like I said, the audience was still in this very forgiving mode and no one said a word. We just all sat there sort of holding our breath and there's that weird tension of being in the audience thinking. Oh, oh my goodness. They have gotten off to a very bad start.

1 (9m 14s):
Oh this this is not good. Right and we feel for them. May I just interrupt for just a moment just to say now this point because after all we are not just joined here together in the radio you and I today to laugh at the foibles of the unfortunate. No, no, we're here to enumerate the qualities of CS go at this point we are not yet in the territory of fiasco. No, no because you know, like I say audiences are forgiving and they you know, one or two one or two mistakes, even big ones like this. They're going to let that ride SAR. We did we did we were very good and so we are not yet at Fiasco. We were at a sort of normal level of mishap,

2 (9m 54s):
right?

1 (9m 60s):
What happens? and immediately after this they disappeared and Never Never Land and if you remember this this stage goes dark and then when the lights come up There's Captain Hook and he's giving his first opening Soliloquy about how evil he is and what a menace he is and how he, you know, harms people and hates children and it's all that good stuff. And so Captain Hook is out there and he looks great. It's going those big old fat hats in a this great hook and he's wild-looking boots and everything and people are feeling more confident. Something's happening. It's a good sign. It's a good sign and he's in charge. This guy is he's got a bad mustache. Action, he is certainly evil.

1 (10m 41s):
Yes, and the audience is totally in his pocket. He's speaking away in gesturing wildly and going on and on about how bad he is and that at a certain point as he gestures his Hook and the entire black casing up to his elbow flings off of his hand and flies into the audience and punches an old lady in the gut and now he is bad. You had like the worst ad-lib I've ever heard. I mean, what do you say at that point? Because of course his hand is now the nakedly exposed to the audience tough moment for any actor.

1 (11m 23s):
Hey, if the premise of your character is that you have your name is Captain Hook literally all that's going to happen for the rest of the show's people going to refer to you by that hook your entire motivation as a character is the fact that you're Is that your arm was eaten off by an alligator and that you have to have the entire plot and you have a hood stems from that fact, right? Right, and now suddenly you have no hook. In fact, you have five fingers on a hand as if a miracle by the Lord Captain Hook said, you know, they just don't make those hooks like they used to that was actually the ad-lib I will never forget.

1 (12m 12s):
Then the lights come up and we are in Never Never Land and in act two. Yeah, this is like actu and I and and Captain Hook might have stood in front of this set, but you didn't really see it because he was just he spoke from Shadow now the lights come up and this is supposed to be a very dramatic moment the rumors of all these crew and the painting and everything that was going on and all this construction all work towards This one moment because when the lights came up here was Never Never Land This sort of psychedelics set. There were paper mache mushrooms everywhere of different sizes. That was it was absolutely wonderful and surreal.

1 (12m 52s):
Wow, and and there's nobody there and then from the upper Rafters of stage, right suddenly the kids and Peter Pan appear flying flying they're flying and they're Landing. They're Landing occurs rather rapidly at an angle of about 45 degrees to the stage. They come down basically, like I don't know lead sinkers on a line and crashed to the floor and then it sort of just dragged across the floor like like mops and wipe out all of the

2 (13m 29s):
mushrooms.

1 (13m 42s):
And so now have we arrived at a turning point in our Fiasco? Yeah. Yeah, it's clear. Now that the audience is giving way something has been lost some sense of decorum that that that little bit of forgiveness that the audience has for the actors and empathy and empathy. It's beginning to dissipate. There was a split in the audience. There were the sort of the younger people who were the least forgiving they started to go first. Okay, so the high school students, you know a couple of college students. Maybe they started to laugh out loud and I'll be honest our I might have been one of those first people to laugh. I was in the tenth grade, right? It was hard to not laugh at this, you know, but then whatever restraint that you know, the audience had it just added at this point because there were a number of things that happened in quick succession that just made it impossible to hold any sense of decorum, which are for example Tinkerbell appears for the first time around this moment and Tinker Bell is essentially a light bulb on an extension cord and what yeah, and this was, you know, this was the directors idea of like, you know, you know being raw being very modern, you know Tinker Bell was Going to be you know, this literal light bulb dangling from an extension cord.

1 (15m 6s):
Whereas in other Productions where they do is that someone will shine a light shine a light or they'll just a beam of focused light and then that pinprick of light is supposed to be Tinker Bell. That's right or something like that or nothing at all and people just address the invisible, you know Sprite, right? Right. Well that did not happen in this case. This bulb comes just dangling down and sort of hangs around this. They care light bulb just hangs around and people are talking to it. And I think Tinkerbell Tinkerbell must have had an appearance in the First Act. But but it was somewhere in here that people just started laughing then another thing that happened was later on in this scene.

1 (15m 53s):
If you remember Wendy gets trapped on an island and and she spots a kite. That's floating by at flying by and she supposed to grab it and attach it to her back and fly off. Right? Well, of course the kite is attached to the Flying apparatus line, right and it gets closer and closer to her. She's standing on this little paper mache Hill and but the flying apparatus people can't quite get it close enough to her to reach. So she has to step out into the waters that she's just told us is filled with crocodiles to grab it. She finally gets the kite. And when she Yanks on it, it pops off the flying around us and the hook goes zinging up into the lights and catches.

1 (16m 41s):
So now there is this big loop of wire hanging in front of the stage and there's Wendy holding the kite and she ad-libbed as best. She could as I remember she she'ssort of said either on second thought maybe I can swim And with that she walked off the stage sort of motioning her arms like you would do the swim the dance in

2 (17m 2s):
1965.

1 (17m 14s):
So she does that at this point, I mean the audience the actors are just falling apart. They are so frightened of the audience. There are just belly laughs rolling up to the stage from the audience people are howling with laughter at every mistake. And now any small mistake just takes on these these just you know, it's just a any instigation for laughter is just enough of the side and now the Old people have given it up. Everyone has quit being nice. Now. There's just this kind of frightening Roar that comes from the audience every time there's a mistake what happened at some point the audience turned in realized. Oh wait, I realize what's going on here. This is a fiasco.

1 (17m 54s):
This is a fiasco and what's really interesting about a fiasco. Is that once it starts to Tumble Down Right audience wants to push it further along. Oh, they get hungry for more Fiasco. Yeah, if this play proceeded perfectly they would be What would have been a grave disappointment had there not been just one more mistake after another one more embarrassment after another now. The reason they're there is the chronicle these embarrassments. This is why I have remembered this this play for 25 year

2 (18m 34s):
towards x 3

1 (18m 35s):
are The director had decided that she wanted to break down the fourth wall. You know, this was this was cutting-edge theaters far as she was concerned, but we just I just want to explain when we say breaking down the fourth wall. What we mean is the wall between the the actors and the audience what you know, usually it's impermeable, but then there came a point in the late 60s early 70s world out of theaters. Basically the actors would come out into the audience. That's right and and interact with the audience and and break down that wall. So at the idea being that you would get more in touch. Each with the dramatic sense and the reality of what was happening, right? Anyway, so in this particular scene, what was going to happen? Was that the Indians we're going to throw a rope ladders down from the balcony and climb down these rope ladders into the audience and and you know move among the audience and frighten us, right.

1 (19m 26s):
Anyway, I knew about the scene because my friend David who I went to high school with was in it. And so when David was climbing over the top of this bow, A to climb down the Rope. He lost his footing and fell to the floor from the balcony a distance of about 15 to 20 feet a good god a good fall. That's horrible. Yeah, and he landed on both of his feet and sprained both of his ankles and of course curled into a fetal position and began to cry right? He was really really hurt now to depreciate the horrible moment. I'm not describing all so understand that it's a Friday night.

1 (20m 8s):
We are in a college town and there is a volunteer fire and ambulance department. And in order to summon The Rescuers from wherever they are an alarm is sounded that can be heard for five miles that alarm is located right over this theater. So the alarm goes off. Okay, this is an air raid siren. It is so loud. You can put your fingers in your ear and it's still hurting your ears. We're right under it. It can be heard for five miles and a minute and then of course three minutes later busting through the door of the theater are these you know, 15 firemen who are in Boots hats they got hoses.

1 (20m 52s):
They don't know what it is. All they know is that they've been sent out, right? And instead of add to the chaos, the the director have course has sort of log the actors that The Show Must Go On no matter what no matter what so while all of this is happening and people are sort of several people are attending to David and other people are have just now like decided that since the firemen are here. He's going to be fine. They can start laughing and now the audience has has just completely lost control people are standing up in their seats and shouting for more they want blood. I mean at this point people are actually injured in the production and they

2 (21m 32s):
want our

1 (21m 45s):
Somehow that's how this entire play ended. What's interesting about about this as a fiasco? I feel like the thing that makes me understand about Fiasco's is that is that the Fiasco itself is an altered state that is all the normal rules are off. You have left the normal rules of how the audience is going to interact with the actor. Right? I've never seen a production like this and I've never seen an audience collapse like this see but I would do like when you think about what people go for theater to theater for like what kind of release people want? I mean people want an experience that Take them out of our themselves. We all want an experience. It would take us out of ourselves and into another place and another reality and it sounds like this production even though it was a fiasco in fact because it was a fiasco was more successful than that than any conventional play could be well see I would disagree with this.

1 (22m 34s):
So I think you know the old theater critics, you know, the Ancients would say that the reason you go to the theater to see a great production is to be I think the word they used to use is transported. The idea being that you would be lifted away from your animal nature and into these higher more spiritual Realms are being get in touch with these these greater. Yeah tragic emotions, right? But of course what happened here was the exact opposite we got transported directly in touch with our animal being base ourselves, right? But you know, that's almost as rare if not more so than a great production Jack hit. He's the co-host of a grade Peabody award-winning.

1 (23m 14s):
About race in history called uncivil, which if you're looking for something to listen to during this National home walk down or on your commute to your essential job. I really recommend that Jack says by the way, the people ask him about this Peter Pan story still all these years later in the year since we first ran this we got a letter from one of the actors in that production that Jack saw a guy who played a pirate who told us Jack quote did not go far enough. Yeah only cover the opening night the subsequent Performances were no better

2 (23m 48s):
grow up. I don't want to go to school

1 (23m 56s):
just to learn to be a puppet

2 (24m 1s):
and recite a silly world. If growing up means it would be beneath my dignity to climb a tree grow up will grow up. Won't grow up. Not me back to

1 (24m 26s):
squirrel cop or human error is often at the heart of a fiasco. But what happens when you combine human error with what we would call in this case animal error. We have the story of a police officer and suburban community on the East Coast. There was nothing nothing going on Saturday night in this Village really quiet super cold and this call came over. For unknown animal in a house and it was about was on my post was about five minutes away. So I myself and another car were assigned the call and we show up there and luckily for me. It was another guy who's pretty new.

1 (25m 7s):
So we walk up to the door with all our stuff on you know, the nylon coat the vest the belt the whole the whole nine yards and the door opens and the guy who is behind the door. He's about 30. I was 23 At the time he's about 30. He looks like a broker a lawyer just really well put together nice guy wearing glasses. He's wearing these like silk pajamas with a monogram got my attention. Wow, and he's going listen, really. Sorry to bother you. Normally I'd handle this sort of stuff on my own but my wife really insisted I call and so we asked what the problem is. He says, well, we were having kind of a romantic evening down in the living room and we heard the scratching upstairs.

1 (25m 50s):
So I ran upstairs to see what it was and it turns out it's coming from the attic. There's something up there and it's just running around knocking a few small things over. I can't tell what it is could be a squirrel or raccoon. I really don't know. So the other cop that I was with said, well, you know, we really don't handle that. It's not so much a police function. It's you know, but we do have numbers of these private contractors who will come in and they'll put a Humane trap down and they'll remove the animal for you and it's really not such a big deal, but it's really not our thing. So right as he was in the middle of saying that and getting us off the hook the guy swings the door back and there's his wife who was just beautiful.

1 (26m 30s):
She was beautiful. She was probably about 26 or 27, but just really beautiful like Perfect Skin long blond hair. Great. Teeth Brilliant Blue Eyes a really nice smile just like beautiful and and friendly, you know, if she had said, you know eat this Glass I just would have said okay broken glass it is it's fine, but she she seemed really nice. So I was gonna be like Galahad. So I just threw my arm back into this guy's chest into a my partner's chest. I said Mark we can handle this. It'll be okay.

1 (27m 16s):
And she just was just you know, thank you so much, and she was really sweet and I was like struck dead. So we walk inside and she goes home to throw a pot of coffee on. And we go upstairs. We follow the man of the house upstairs and we're underneath one of those trap doors that goes into the attic with the staircase to folds out. Right and we do here and animal upstairs scratching away. Just kind of scuttling around the floor and there's definitely something up there and it's making pretty good speed up going from one end of the roof to the other. So I reached up and I took the trapdoor down we unfolded the ladder. Now. I have this big heavy flashlight like your your cop flashlight for decels the metal case the whole thing, right?

1 (27m 59s):
I shine it up through the hole in there and it's pretty black. I can see the rafters but really nothing else around there and I start up the ladder. Now the guy who owned the house is standing almost directly underneath me just to the side of the ladder looking straight up at me and my partner's are the at the base of the ladder right behind me. So just before I stuck my head to this like black hole. I just kind of pause like I crunched my body up underneath because I'm realizing I'm G, you know, I don't know where this thing is the second we pull down the trap door all noise upstairs just ceased so I was kind of nervous and I was like, well, you know, I look like an idiot just crouched up here on the top of the ladder. So I took the flashlight.

1 (28m 39s):
I just pop my head up turn the light on again and about six inches from the front of my face. Was this squirrel at eye level with me kind of reared back on its legs and I swear from where I was standing it looked like Godzilla. It just scared the heck out of me. I thought it's a squirrel. It's going to be hiding somewhere. It's going to be terrified to me with six inches away from me and it really startled me. So I kind of went ah jump back and the flashlight slips out of my hands. It's heavy and it falls directly onto the nose of the guy who's looking straight up at me and I don't think it broke it but it did some damage and his nose his hands up to his face and blood started pouring out between his hand.

1 (29m 25s):
This is the homeowner as the homeowner. I lose my balance and fall backwards directly onto my partner and I just I pancake on my we're both on our backs. He's on his back. I'm on his stomach on my back scuttling around like a like a beetle trying to get up and it's really narrow hallway. it's a mess the squirrel while we're floundering around in the hallway jumps down the stairs boink boink boink lands on me and takes off down the stairs how undignified it was terrible. So we're wondering gee where is the where's the squirrel and right at that second the woman who lived there you hear a scream.

1 (30m 9s):
So my partner goes. Well, you know, we found the squirrel it's wherever she is. Yeah, so we go running downstairs. And the squirrel had come into the living room where they had been having their like romantic evening. They had a fire going. They had pillows arranged around one corner of the couch next to the fire and they had champagne flute out and nice house really nice. I mean, it just smelled brand-new new carpeting new rugs new paint. They had been there for that long. So the squirrel would have bolted down the staircase took off into the living room and ran underneath the couch for cover. So we run downstairs.

1 (30m 50s):
This guy is bleeding all over the place on his carpets. His wife looks and says, you know, what? Have you done? What have you done to my husband? I start going always an accident and I just stopped in mid-sentence. What's the point? We've only been there about two minutes. So the squirrel is underneath the couch and my partner is going, you know, let's get out of here. This is just, you know, it's not going well, so I am not. Yeah, I'm not beaten yet. I always had another idea so So the squirrel the get over this couch, which is in the middle of the room. So I have this bright idea. Why don't we move the furniture away from one of the corners and we'll put the couch in the corner and the score will probably move along with the couch because it's the only cover available to it.

1 (31m 32s):
And once we get into the corner will only have to open sides of the couch to worry about so we did that. That is so tactical. Yes. Yeah. I was very proud of myself at that instant. But you know, I asked her for a box and she says sure we've got boxes. We just moved in. We have nothing. Of boxes she runs out to the garage and she comes back with a box and the box is long enough and it fits across the entire short side of the couch where you would the armrest would be. So I start sweeping underneath the couch with my nightstick trying to move the squirrel toward the Box figuring will capture it and just get rid of it and we'll be out of here and they'll be no more, you know Mayhem so it's actually working very well and the squirrels moving down along you can hear it.

1 (32m 14s):
It's chittering and I'm trying not to Heart it, you know, I feel kind of I'm nervous. About the thing. It might bite me. I don't want to hurt it really. It's just an animal right? So I'm moving it along and everything's going very well and then with about eight inches to go. I took one more swipe and the thing just bolted out from underneath the couch. It was lined with like tassels. I couldn't really see him to the couch. It bolted out from underneath the couch and ran directly into the fireplace, which is about three feet away. It was the fireplace directly ahead of it and it ran into the fire. Oh my and caught on fire and Ran directly back out and directly back onto the catch. Is it on desire?

1 (32m 55s):
Yeah, the tail the bushy fur the whole bit. I mean wasn't like flaming or anything but there was it was smoking and there was some there was some a little bit of Fire coming off the tail. So it runs back onto the couch and the couch it catches on fire in seconds. I mean in seconds it had must have had dust under there something else, but it just it caught on fire immediately. And my partner and I just don't even talk. We just grab the couch heave it upside down and now there's plenty of oxygen now for the fire really get going and it starts up and we're patting it out and it's sort of getting away from us. So we grabbed the only thing that's really available.

1 (33m 35s):
And those are these really nice silk pillows and we have one in each hand both of us and we're just windmilling away at this fire on the couch and we put it out but it's smoking terribly and the It was just it was a disaster. That couch is upside down at the bottom of it is burnt. The house is filling with smoke from the couch. The squirrel went into the couch and its death throes just latched onto the bottom of the couch. It's like the smoking piece of gristle underneath the couch latched on there with its claws and we're pounding smearing it all over the place and the smoke alarms are firing away the guys standing in his, you know, with handkerchiefs and paper towels up around his nose, which Still bleeding.

1 (34m 19s):
His pajamas are a mess the covered with blood the front of them. And we finally get the fire out and we're both completely red sweating because we're dressed for like zero degree weather and it's hot there by the fire where mortified the house is full of smoke. The the wife just looks around and just starts to cry. She goes what what have you done? What have you done to my house it you could see her just like clicking things off on her fingers. Okay, the a dead squirrel ruined fellows need a new couch. The walls are covered with soot the fire alarms going off. My husband's disfigured and then she really kind of just lost it and he was just looking at us and shaking his head like he couldn't believe that these two idiots showed up and did this to his house over nothing really and he just goes he now you really you really haven't done anything wrong.

1 (35m 14s):
There's I can't point to any one thing that you did. That I have a reason to get angry about you really haven't done anything wrong. I mean we did call you. But I'm just I just I can't thank you for this they call for squirrel and up with like three thousand four thousand dollars worth of damage in a broken nose, and this is all within about five minutes. Could that have happened to you now 13 years later. There's always a new mistake to be made. I don't think I don't think I would make that particular mistake, you know, I mean you make plenty of mistakes you make plenty of mistakes.

1 (35m 57s):
That's that's that's just part of that job. I don't you just try not to make the same one twice, but there's such variety that if you're going to make hundreds going to make thousands of mistakes and make thousands of mistakes until you really get a handle on what you're doing and with police work they afford you plenty of space to make mistakes, but there's things that Just either they aren't you responsibility if you have if you get involved in things that aren't your responsibility. For that you really not equipped to handle or that you don't have a specific plan a plan. That's thought through to a conclusion. You probably should re-evaluate what you're doing. You know that you mentioned that yeah. That's right. You walk into the house thinking.

1 (36m 37s):
Okay. What will get the squirrel? Like, how were you going to get the squirrel? What was the best case scenario? That's a great question. I guess I was thinking that I would go up there in the attic and find this cowering squirrel and somehow kind of lure it into. To some kind of a trap and then walk out with it and be like a hero but as it turned out, you know the squirrel it was a pyrrhic victory for the squirrel, but the squirrel definitely one, you know, the squirrel really, you know kicked our ass that is not that is not what you want to be saying at the end of the day. No. No, I mean I it took me a long time to even tell people about it, you know, so no, I didn't want to know you know, what a bonehead.

1 (37m 21s):
I was when I first came onto the job. Whenever you eat who asked not to be named on the radio had been on the force for 18 years when he spoke with me

2 (37m 41s):
like a swing up in a tree.

1 (37m 56s):
Michael

2 (37m 56s):
Fox good swinging up in a tree

1 (38m 18s):
coming out what it's like to be invited to a big charity event that you then ruin that's in a minute Chicago public radio way. our program continues support for This American Life comes from Squarespace make your new website stand out with Squarespace providing designer crafted templates that are mobile friendly and e-commerce ready all with award-winning customer service and Squarespace offers a new way to buy domains and choose from over 200 domain extensions start your free trial and receive a special offer on your first purchase at squarespace.com / American and use promo code American.

1 (38m 58s):
A dream is just a great idea. That doesn't have a website yet Squarespace think it dream it make it. It's an american guy from Ira Glass each week in a program. Of course, we choose the theme bring you different kinds of stories on that theme Today's Show Fiasco. This is our own inquiry into the nature of what makes a fiasco when you have left the world of mishaps tumble human error, and you enter into the much more rarefied realm of fiasco. We have arrived today three of our programmatic three tragedy - comedy equals time specifically a long time between laughs The big lie as a comedian, he's been on our show lots of times and years ago years ago.

1 (39m 42s):
He told this story about this one gig that he did relatively early in his career. He says it was the worst show he's ever done in his life.

2 (39m 51s):
It happened this year. I was asked to perform at a charity golf tournament in New Jersey. So I woke up for this charity golf event, and I have a I realized recently that I'm not like a good adult. Yeah, like I think if you're a good adult you like plan your outfit according to what will occur when you leave the house, but I don't have that part of my brain. I'm just like one outfit forever, you know. So I when I play golf I brought my brother Joe and Joe is just kind of like a bad Entourage member. He's never liked you to man Mike. He's always like I don't know what Dad would think about this?

2 (40m 32s):
You think they have any more shrimp, you know that kind of thing. But we showed up to play golf and they paired us up with these two other people and they'll it was a celebrity tournament that people are like, who do you think our

1 (40m 46s):
celebrities going to be?

2 (40m 51s):
And I was and Joe and I would like yeah, who do you think our celebrities going to be? And then I'm like, oh no, I think Might be me and then like I'm apologizing to these people. I'm like, I'm really sorry. I'm here celebrity if you think this is disappointing for you. You can't imagine how I feel so I'm like apologizing the whole day and then at the end of the day like sure enough my pants are all wrinkled and I have to be at this performing this semi formal banquet and I'm like, what about one outfit forever?

2 (41m 35s):
I thought that was A good plan, you know and so here's what I do as damage control I go to the locker room to iron my own pants. And yeah, it's pretty good plan and I find an iron but I couldn't find a board. So I take off my pants. I'm just ironing them on a bench in the locker room in my underwear, which is a dead giveaway that these are my only pants and So my ironing my pants and I put them on and I go up to the event.

2 (42m 16s):
And this is where the trouble really begins it's important for me before I tell you this part of the story to remind you that you're on my side. I say to the woman in charge I go what's the format of the show and she goes well, there's two

1 (42m 39s):
speakers and then you and then a

2 (42m 41s):
raffle and I was like, well that's you know, it's exciting because I've never opened for a raffle and I'm trying to stay optimistic. You know, I'm sitting in the back of the room with my brother Joe and the first Speaker comes on the stage and he's an 11 year old boy who

1 (43m 2s):
I've

2 (43m 2s):
leukemia. I know he's not funny at all. He focuses primarily on the leukemia. Everyone is crying literally everyone is crying. I'm even crying in the back of the room for two reasons. One the kid and two for me because I have to perform comedy and it gets worse because jolene's over niggas.

2 (43m 49s):
This ain't looking so good Mike. I said I concur the second speaker was Hall of Fame quarterback Phil Simms. And yeah, you gotta he's got one fan here. But he's a he's a broadcaster and he's gives an amazing inspiring speech and even sprinkles in a few jokes about golf there. Similar to jokes. I thought of about golf that day who's like watching the last drops of my

1 (44m 30s):
joke canteen drip

2 (44m 32s):
out onto a desert of cancer and he gets a standing ovation, which he should have clearly the show is over surely there. Can't be anyone more famous than Hall of Fame quarterback Phil Simms. But wait, there was it was Mike Birbiglia who had no business being at this event.

2 (45m 13s):
I know there are some entertainers who might have risen to the challenge and I would love to be one of those entertainers but I am not as a matter of fact. I have a habit in my life of making awkward situations even more Awkward like I said this before but I few years ago is moving a new

1 (45m 32s):
bed into my apartment and this woman who lived in the building open the front door for me with her key and she goes I'm not worried because a rapist wouldn't have a bed like

2 (45m 42s):
that. That's how she started the conversation now. What I should have said was nothing what I did say was you'd be surprised. There's nothing you can say after that. You're just like see you around the building. You know, that kind of thing. I've thought about this a lot. And I think there's something wrong with my brain where I don't have an on Deck Circle for ideas. It's just better off, you know, and a lot of the ideas are bad and they're at the play going.

2 (46m 26s):
I don't know about this one life and I just turned into this drunk Little League Dad. I'm like you go take some Cuts son. Is the comedian when people laugh it's very it's very exciting. You know, it's a very neat thing and when they don't it feels like you're performing Jazz because they're kind of bobbing their ahead and look into the side and on sometimes that's ok. I'm like a jazz, you know, but then I get worried because I'm like sometimes Jazz sucks. What? If I'm the Kenny G of Comedy, you know, like what if I think I sound like this like my mother mother mother damn button button button.

2 (47m 10s):
And in fact, I sound like this no no no, no, no. So I'm on stage at the charity golf tournament and I'm just Kenny Gene it up. You know, I'm just for 10 minutes. Just no no no. just blowing that horn, you know and And I don't want to fail. I mean that's a really important point in this story is that I want these are good people and I want to succeed for them, but I just can't you know, and so I think to myself why don't I cater my material to this specific event and everyone has been talking about cancer.

2 (48m 7s):
I know I'm in the future also. I had that thought on stage for about one second and then better up. I said to the audience. I true story I said it went to the doctor and they told me there was something in my bladder and whenever they tell you that it's never anything good, you know, like we found something in your bladder and it's season tickets to the Yankees. That was the response.

2 (48m 47s):
I was hoping for. At that point. I just threw in the towel. I mean, I was just devastated. I thank the audience and apologized simultaneously which I've never done. I was like, thank you. Sorry for ruining your van and I just kind of walked off. And I was so upset and I walked over to Joe. And I go Joe. We are leaving now. And that's when Joe said and I quote Mike.

2 (49m 29s):
I can't

1 (49m 31s):
they're just about to start the

2 (49m 33s):
raffle and because everybody laughed my odds are Is and that is the worst show I've ever done in my entire life. Michael biglia his most recent death like specialist called

1 (50m 3s):
the new one and he's organized. He's funny videos to raise money for people who work at comedy clubs who of course are now out of work John Mulaney Maria Bamford were a wood jr. And many other very funny people do these with him. You can find them at tip your waitstaff.com.

2 (50m 22s):
Which started the whole world crying, but I didn't see that the joke was on me.

1 (50m 42s):
I'd for Fiasco's is a Force for good George Clooney Barbra Streisand Jennifer Aniston Vidal Sassoon Jodie Foster, Jason Momoa Brad. Hit Keanu Reeves Sharon Stone and John Travolta. Also George Burns Bob Hope Gene Kelly Gena Rowlands. Also Quentin Tarantino. John Waters, Nora Ephron, Margie Rockland as interviewed all these people. She's written big feature stories for all sorts of big magazines and newspapers. But the very very first big feature assignment that she was actually sent out on was by a publication in 1982 the Los Angeles reader they sent out a very nervous very useful. Maggie Rockland to interview Moon Unit Zappa, remember her daughter of Frank

2 (51m 27s):
Zappa in this little bit that she does on the song. She's using a lot of this language that you know, sort of Val speak that no one ever heard before it was considered really

1 (51m 37s):
exotic. Mmm.

2 (51m 39s):
And so I was from the valley so I was sent to go

1 (51m 42s):
talk to her. She is one of your people speak to her in your secret private

2 (51m 46s):
Our God exactly. And of course what? Does that mean to me is that I totally bought that you're right. I'm the right person for the

1 (51m 53s):
job.

2 (51m 55s):
I'm gonna go speak to her in the valley language. We will bond.

1 (52m 8s):
So you get there and you're a bit nervous and the pressure is on which is of course the setting for a possible possible Triumph or possible Fiasco, right? And what happens

2 (52m 19s):
next? Well, what I noticed was that there was it was not it was a tense situation. I just didn't feel like it was going very well and the mother was sort of hypnosis. Hovering,

1 (52m 30s):
but what we have a recording of it that you that because you had a tape recorder rolling during this.

2 (52m 36s):
Yes other Hangouts in the valley besides the Galleria. Bowling alleys with that big arcades of very popular like well, I'm trying at this point. I'm sort of at that rock bottom level that everyone can get at an interview where you're just saying, you know, like what's your favorite color? And she's trying to help me along the curve, which is gone. It's now the SportsCenter the same it's still very yes, so we're seated in the den and the mother made me coffee. But I was too nervous to drink it but I sort of kept staring at and she kept staring at a hood and I felt like it was pretty important that at some point I better drain that coffee cup.

2 (53m 21s):
And so what happened was Moon told me a joke, and I didn't see the joke coming and right before she told me that joke. I had taken a big Swig of the coffee which was now cold and when she told me that joke, I burst out laughing and And I started to choke and so I pressed my lips together. So I didn't spit it out and want to do a spit-take and the coffee came shooting out my nose shooting out your nose shooting right out my drone and I was really embarrassed but simultaneous I couldn't breathe at the same time.

2 (54m 6s):
I was choking and I jumped up and I sort of started. Running around the room knocking things over and and I don't think they I think that they didn't know what was going on and what the mother began chasing

1 (54m 22s):
she began chasing you

2 (54m 24s):
she began chasing me because she could you know, I was sort of running from corner to corner trying to catch my breath and she began sort of chasing me and a certain point. She got behind me and she gave me the Heimlich maneuver.

1 (54m 47s):
Nobody's ever given me the Heimlich maneuver while been in the store.

2 (54m 52s):
Well, I always say that it's a benchmark. It's a very low Benchmark and I can do any interview I can get thrown off a set. You know, I can be cursed out by the subject, but I can leave and get in the car and I can drive home and think you know, I didn't blow

1 (55m 8s):
coffee. Now what happened? What happened after that?

2 (55m 16s):
It was sort of like we'd all been in an earthquake together and all of the nervousness left the room and suddenly we were three gals just chatting and I remember and I sort of like a hug them both when I left. Wow, there are now my friends.

1 (55m 33s):
It's interesting, you know, because one of our criteria for a fiasco is that all social order the normal social? Breaks down and literally that's what happens here the normal interview stops and the social structure of the moment completely changes. The mom gives you the Heimlich maneuver and then suddenly it stops feeling like an interview.

2 (55m 53s):
Yeah. No, it was really and I have to say that, you know, it was a very embarrassing experience and it completely made me feel close to them. It was so interesting when moons father died a while ago, I bumped into her somewhere and and we both burst into tears. Here's I mean, I really felt like a little little sister of mine had a loss and I you know, the starting point was you know

1 (56m 16s):
that moment that moment. Yeah to me the thing about it. That's that's useful is that it shows the the useful purpose of a fiasco that is when social order breaks down that can be a force not just for for chaos and for entropy and for evil, but in fact, that could be a force for good right it can it can it can bring people together

2 (56m 37s):
right the you know, it was actually Huge success to me. I'd never been sent out, you know under these kinds of circumstances before and I remember we beat the local paper The Herald examiner followed us a week later. And so we had the first story and it was sort of considered the definitive one because we have this glossary of terms that I had made her put together

1 (56m 60s):
and Valley speed

2 (57m 2s):
valleys big terms and and and then it was it was

1 (57m 5s):
syndicated and most of the quotable stuff that you ended up using in your And your story happened after the happened. Yeah after squirting the coffee for your not right? Exactly.

2 (57m 14s):
Exactly. It's a technique. I don't suggest anyone try, / you know years afterwards. Moon would send me postcards and on the postcard somewhere would be a picture of a nose and there would be liquid coming out of this sort of like my logo. Heading to the Mac. So I'm sure it's like really nauseating like bar. Our out gag move the spoon Krause. I am sure

1 (57m 52s):
totally I get Rockin she covers television podcast food and film in Los Angeles.

2 (58m 16s):
but today's program is produced by Nancy Updike in

1 (58m 19s):
myself with Paul tough Elise Spiegel and Julie Snyder committing editors for today's program jacket muggy, Rockland and Consular officer eval production help for this rerun from nor Gil Stone Nelson and Matt Tierney our website this Eric and life.org This American Life is a little bit of public radio stations by PRX the public radio exchange support for This American Life comes from constant contact with email marketing tools to help small businesses build their brands online through customizable email templates and email editor and now a website builder more at Constant Contact.com quick program note one of our staffers here Seth land who reads the support for This American Life comes from spots that your hero on the show when he is not At our program he is actually part of the cast of what we believe is the world's leading science fiction improv comedy podcasts.

1 (59m 9s):
It's called mission to 6. It's improv comedians doing a serialized story that takes place in deep space deep space created with sound effects, of course few weeks ago. They started the new season with theme song performed by a 63 piece Orchestra. They are overachievers again the name mission to zix z y x x wherever you get your podcast. Thanks as always to our programs co-founder. He Mattia used to walk into the studio at the end of each and every episode to grimly assess the damage that squirrel ruin pillows need a new couch. The walls are covered with soot the fire alarms going off. I'm Ira Glass back next week with more stories at This American

2 (59m 48s):
Life.

1 (1h 0m 22s):
Next week on the podcast of This American Life In This Moment when social media is the only way to connect with a lot of people you love a story about a single Facebook post the changed her a bunch of people saw their last year of high school. I didn't know this was going to go viral.

2 (1h 0m 35s):
I thought this was going to be shared with 400 people in

1 (1h 0m 38s):
my high school senior class

2 (1h 0m 40s):
Facebook page and that was it

1 (1h 0m 42s):
it went way way way for the mat next week on the podcast or your local public radio station.