2 (1s):
Support for This American Life comes from Capital One with the Capital One Quicksilver

1 (5s):
card with Quicksilver. You earn unlimited 1.5% cash back on every purchase everywhere. What's in your

2 (13s):
wallet? A quick warning. There are curse words that are unbeaten today's episode of the show. If you prefer a beeped version, you can find that at our website This American Life dot-org. In a crisis, we've learned new things about the people we love so this video online that this nurse at least Barrett and Seattle made for her husband. She works in a Cancer Clinic but figured she'd be called to work in an ICU once things heated up there with covid-19 cases and she had some things you wanted to say to him.

1 (41s):
Hey Barber. I wanted to make this video for you

2 (45s):
in case you find yourself on a really rough

1 (47s):
spot. I know you and I have had some conversations about what to do.

2 (51s):
If you know, I'm where I can't speak for myself if I'm on a ventilator If I'm SuperDuper ill,

1 (59s):
you know, I've seen a lot of

2 (1m 1s):
awful stuff and awful deaths and here's an ICU nurse for nearly 10 years. She instructs him. She's on a ventilator but no awareness or ability to interact and no chance to wake up again. Let her die don't want or another possibility if at some point I'm coding and I'm coding over and over they'll be able to tell you. Don't don't

1 (1m 25s):
make them code me over and over if I've had a protracted hypoxic code.

2 (1m 32s):
Don't make them keep working me

1 (1m 35s):
if there's thinking that there's going to be massive brain damage secondary to generalize top of hypoxia. They'll tell you, you know, there's white on the CAT scan their swelling in the brain generalized people don't come back from that and there's not

2 (1m 49s):
really a lot of Hope left at that point of getting me back. So at that point you got to let me go She's entirely business like about this medical professional running through the things she needs him to know. Yes, they've talked about this before but now she has some details some gaps to fill in and she takes through the possibilities of what could happen to her because she's on a ventilator and starts to recover. She weren't your husband not to get too hopeful because it's not unusual for people to turn a corner and get worse again. If she dies, here's what she's thinking about a funeral a lot of she does recover and gets off the bat. Yeah. Well, he should know that it might be months of rehab we should be able to come. Home again, and that's one more thing. She wants her partner.

2 (2m 28s):
Now, you should be aware that when somebody is super duper sick

1 (2m 33s):
when they're prone to their face swells up. They look awful. Like if I'm sick enough to be mechanically ventilated. I'm going to look like shit and I don't necessarily think you want to see that. It's okay for you not to visit me in the hospital. It's not going to be safe for you to visit me in the hospital. I would rather you stay home and take care of coupler and have this video and you know other stuff that I left for you to make sure that your memories of me or not traumatic or scarring

2 (3m 3s):
capillaries their two-year-old son.

1 (3m 6s):
I want you to be safe. I want you to take care of yourself. I love you more than anything else on earth except maybe Kepler. Thank you for him. Thank you for giving me that beautiful boy and for giving me life that we've had

2 (3m 19s):
together, and I love you so much.

1 (3m 22s):
I miss you.

2 (3m 30s):
When you know, somebody said well, what can you possibly say that's going to be news to them about who you are or where you think I'm guessing nothing in. This video was a huge surprise to this nurses husband when there's a crisis is important to say certain things practical stuff information and instructions, but also there's feelings to share. We need to connect. It's not a member for Big Revelations. You just want to The colors in the picture of you two a little bit this way or that my coworker. Bim has been having these daily conversations with a brother demo. He's been sick with covid-19 for over a week. Now. These conversations are totally different than that nurses video all the ways that that nurse at least.

2 (4m 10s):
Barrett is so direct imagining every possible terrible outcome one by one and discussing it Dimmadome owner and not into that. I'm guessing with no evidence at all here that most of us are more like Bim and demo. We'd rather sidestepped. Scariest possibilities for as long as possible but in their daily talks, there's still new information passing between them then they usually Share She's in New York demo in the rest of her family are in London. He's four years younger.

1 (4m 37s):
He perhaps Remains the most beautiful baby I've ever seen

2 (4m 43s):
in my life like aggressively. So like my mom will tell you. Oh,

1 (4m 46s):
yeah SS the most beautiful of my babies. She she makes no qualms

2 (4m 49s):
about that's just rude to say to your other children really rude, but

1 (4m 54s):
devil I was Beautiful. He was pretty it was a pretty

2 (4m 57s):
baby. He still has this some this little beauty

1 (4m 59s):
spot right where Marilyn Monroe had hers. Oh, wow. Yeah and these lashes and so when he was very little my sister and I will put him on there was a there was a short of a short exactly child level ironing board. I was more like a table and we put him on there and we would kiss him all over him until he would cry in

2 (5m 20s):
protest hear them tell it down was relationship with the sisters today. Is it faint echo of that? His older sister is more expressive with her feelings demo a little bit apart happy to be by himself separate Island from the rest of them keeping his own counsel. Very quiet before he got sick been would usually text him or talk to him and WhatsApp a couple times a week. Lots of it was talk about TV shows. I'm quoting Zapp Brannigan from Futurama to each other and Bim mocking demo whenever his team Arsenal losses, but now the talking every day and for the first time at the video chats the day line is of it. Everything a different feeling and subject matter is different too.

1 (5m 59s):
So I'm asking him. Did you drink enough water today? What's your temperature? Did the cough go away. Is it a dry cough? So yeah, the questions on the one hand a kind of very dry and basic but on the other I suppose because I've never asked them before it feels extra special now to kind of be asking very specifically like what's your temperature and to be able to track his life in this way, you know the knowledge that it went from there. 37 degrees and now it's 36 degrees, you know, and yeah, I mean, it's Celsius obviously. Yeah, it just feels really oddly Intimates that I know the temperature of his body across an ocean.

1 (6m 43s):
Even though the question seems really kind of you know Bland on the surface, you know, what's your temperature? It's a way of asking and it's a way I think also circumventing the elephant in the room, which is if he had a more serious case of covid-19 if his symptoms were more severe if things were really dire. You know, we just don't talk about it. So when I asked about his temperature what I'm asking is it's kind of like a shorthand it's half language that way using there's a Yerba saying my mom often says which is speaking from underneath your tongue. And in a way, I feel like I am speaking from underneath my tongue to ask like a really serious question.

1 (7m 27s):
But in the most Bland language, which is are you drinking water? What was the headache like, you know is asking these very basic questions that are basically pushing back my fear of what this could have been that's terrifying to me

2 (7m 40s):
because the thing underneath it that you're not saying is

1 (7m 43s):
the thing. I think I'm saying. I feel like I'm screaming it is please don't die. You know, I don't want you to

2 (7m 51s):
die. So it's not like she's learning some new information about this person. She knows so well these daily conversations but you saying such a different side of him normally so stoic she says now, he's way more vulnerable way more opened everybody in the family calling him all the time and asking him questions.

1 (8m 11s):
I think he wants to be fussed over in this at least a little bit. I think he likes it a little bit and it obviously they'll get more annoying as he gets better and stronger. But for now, he's basically a baby and an ironing table and we're gonna kiss him.

2 (8m 27s):
I've never UBC Chicago. It's This American Life. I'm Ira Glass today on our program moments when we fill in the gaps and see parts of somebody we have not seen before we learn it could be a kind of subtle shading around the edges though in all of our stories today. I have to say it is way bigger than that. It's people declaring you thought you knew the truth, but no no, no, you did not not all of it and the part that you didn't know changes everything. Now as Paul Harvey used to say now, you know the rest of the story stay with us.

2 (9m 8s):
Guan I can't be your hero baby certain stories get told over and over about undocumented immigrants in this country. One of the big ones is about sacrifice about hard-working people who work long hours and restaurant kitchens and farms and other low paying jobs to support their families grateful for the chance to be in the US or the doc of kids who

3 (9m 28s):
strive and want nothing more than

2 (9m 29s):
college and the American dream Carla Conejo Valley of ascencio is our God to these stories thought you could do better just a quick note about her essay. There are very brief references in it to rape and suicide. Here. She is

1 (9m 43s):
when I was a senior in college, I wrote an anonymous essay for the Daily Beast about what they wanted to call my dirty little secret that I was undocumented. This was in 2011 before DACA and I was one of the first sin document students to graduate Harvard the essay got me some attention. And agents wrote me asking if I wanted to write a memoir. I was angry a memoir. I was 21. I wasn't fucking Barbra Streisand. I had been writing professionally since I was 15, but only about music wanted to be the guy in High Fidelity and I didn't want my first book to be a rueful tale about being a sickly Victorian orphan with tuberculosis who didn't have a Social Security number which is what the agents are wanted the guy who eventually ended up becoming my agent respected that did not find an interchangeable immigrant to publish a sad book read everything.

1 (10m 37s):
I would write over the next seven years and we kept in touch. I was the first person who wrote him on the morning of November 9th 2016. That morning. I received a bunch of emails from people who are really freaked out about Trump winning and the emails essentially were offers to hide me in their second houses and Vermont or stay in their basements shit. I told my partner for trying to end Frank me. By this point I had read lots of books about migrants. I hated a good number of these books. I couldn't see my family in them because I saw my parent's is more than laborers as more than sufferers are dreamers. I thought I could write something better. And I thought I was the best person to do it.

1 (11m 19s):
I was just crazy enough because if you're going to write about undocumented immigrants in America tell the story the full story. You have to be a little bit crazy and you certainly can't be enamored by him. Erica not still that disqualifies you I did not want to write anything inspirational. I wanted to write for everybody who wants to step away from the buzz words and immigration the Talking Heads the dreamers and graduation caps and gowns and read about the people underground not Heroes randoms people. I wanted to write about my parents and that's the story. I'm going to tell hear the story of my parents.

1 (12m 7s):
If you ask my mother where she's from she's a hundred percent going to say she's from the kingdom of God because she does not like to say that she's from Ecuador Ecuador being one of the few South American countries that has not especially outdone itself on the international stage. Magical realism basically skipped over it and our military dictatorship never reach the mythical status. That would be no shit or a view that LE plus there are no world-famous ecuadorians to speak of other than the fool who has Julian Assange at the embassy in London and Christina Aguilera's father who she said was a domestic abuser. If you ask my father where he's from he will definitely say Ecuador because he is sentimental about the country for reasons.

1 (12m 48s):
He's working out in therapy, but if you push them I mean really pushed They're both going to say they're from New York. If you ask them if they feel American because you're a little Mark who wants to prove your blood runs red white and blue you're going to say. No, if you like New Yorkers, they've lived in New York since they left Ecuador in 1991. I don't know much about my parents decision to choose New York or even the United States as a destination. It's not that I haven't asked them why they came to the United States. It's that the answer isn't as morally satisfying as most people are answers are the decapitated family member famine and I never pressed them for more details because I don't want to apply pressure on a bruise.

1 (13m 33s):
The story is far as I know it goes something like this. My parents had just gotten married and they're small Autobody business was not doing well the idea of coming to America to work for a year to make just enough money to pay off their debts came up and it seemed like a good idea. They left me with my dad's family when I was a year and a half old. That's about as much as I know. My parents didn't come back after a year. They were barely making ends meet when I was 4 years old going to school and Ecuador teachers began to comment on how gifted I was my parents knew Ecuador was not the place for a gifted girl.

1 (14m 17s):
The gender politics were too fucked up and they wanted me to have all the educational opportunities. They hadn't had so that's when they brought me to New York. I was just shy of five when I stepped off the plane. Why Americans love academically achieving minorities and I learned quickly that the most alluring thing about me was that I was young and brown and a good student the Holy Trinity. I went to a Catholic Elementary School on a scholarship and we lived in Queens my mother stayed home and my father drove a cab. This was back when East New York was still getting country and he had to fold his body into a little origami swan and hide under his steering wheel during CrossFit.

1 (15m 0s):
hours in the middle of the day then came September 11th 2001 Here's how I remember the day. My father started dying not long after the Twin Towers fell my father comes home from work, and I greet him in the doorway to give him a kiss. Hello. He walks slowly and comes toward my body at a strange angle a child could only interpret as a terrible fall. He collapses onto me to cry into my neck. I'm little 12 or 13, but he does he falls The letter says an English something about the DMV suspended driver's licenses for undocumented immigrants. He was part of an attempt to strengthen security measures after 9/11.

1 (15m 44s):
My father had just lost his job as a taxi driver. He had also lost a state ID over the next 20 years. He'd lose many more things. But let's put a little blue Thumbtack on this memory map the first place in hell we visited September 11th change the immigration landscape forever ice was the creation of 9/11 paranoia. It changed my father too. It was hard to see him fall because he was the most powerful person. I knew he was a difficult man and I was a difficult child. I was polite and craved approval from authority figures, but I was also darken precocious not precocious in the we live in Tribeca and my kid is a born artist kind of way more like My immigrant third grader is reading Hemingway, but a secretly drinking Listerine and toothpaste until she throws up because she wants it to kill her kind of way.

1 (16m 41s):
Only years later would I realize how real my suicidal impulses were that was too damn young? I think lying down in the dark at my doctors office with an IV of ketamine hooked up to my arm hoping to extinguish the suicidality that began when I was five and they crayons around the perimeter of my bed. So I'd know in the morning if I'd been secretly raped at night I'd know because the Crayons would be broken. My father read parenting books that explain how to raise trouble children, but those children were never straight A students who are soft-spoken and love teachers it confused him and the distance made him angry at me. He saw me as different from other children in a way that troubled him and he fumbled in the dark to help me with what he couldn't name when I was off from school for any kind of break my father would plan out my day and half hour increments scheduling everything from bath time to TV shows.

1 (17m 38s):
To coloring time to math drills to time to play with dolls and even bathroom breaks. He called it my schedule and he hand wrote it on graph paper and different colored inks and taped it to my desk when I became overwhelmed with panic crying. Hysterically. He would send me to take a cold shower or take me out on a jog around the neighborhood. He'd set aside magazine or newspaper articles for me to translate. He could not review the The other translation but he judged my penmanship. I don't know what would have happened to me. If I had not been kept away from my own thoughts for so many years. My father kept me alive after my father lost his job as a taxi driver.

1 (18m 27s):
He found a job as a delivery man at a restaurant down in the financial district in the mornings. He would deliver breakfast to offices raisin bagel with cream cheese. Cheese and coffee with hazelnut creamer orange juice and a banana or granola bar and chocolate milk. There was no delivery minimum. So my father delivered at all because the deliveries were so small. Sometimes he didn't get a tip. Sometimes. He was told to keep the change a quarter. Sometimes he was tipped in pennies. He had to say thank you, sir. Thank you, ma'am. Sometimes he was given a $20 tip for a $5 breakfast. He always told us about those.

1 (19m 7s):
Oops, there are usually from Puerto Rican receptionist who talked to him in Spanish and as the see photos of me when he came home with one of those tips. It was like having my dad back from the dead he would dance to know music and he'd make jokes and he'd come out of her shower looking like a teenager. My father didn't use a bike. He made all his deliveries on foot. He speed walked while carrying bags of food to offices on Wall Street, the plastic handles of the bags with twists and cut into his fingers and he developed large calluses on both his hands his polyester pants rubbed up against his calves so much that he lost all the hair on his legs.

1 (19m 48s):
He went through many pairs of inexpensive black rubber shoes. My mother massage his feet at night. My dad's feet are small and fat like mine. So you can't tell when they're swollen after a few years. My dad's feet would hurt so much that he walked like he was on hot coals sometimes leaning on me to move from the couch to the bed IAI. He'd say as he limped like a mariachi. When I was 15 the owner of the restaurant where my father worked hired a new manager to oversee the delivery men who were all immigrants. The guy was Puerto Rican an American citizen and became immediately abusive threatening to call ice on them yelling at them getting up in their faces my father fell into a bit of a depression.

1 (20m 33s):
I had just watched All the President's Men. I put on my best Posh accent tile star-69 to block my number and called the restaurant. I asked to speak to the owner. I said I was a beat reporter for a big city newspaper and had just received a tip from a customer about overhearing racist abuse in the kitchen and did he have a comment the owner said he'd handled it and asked me not to write the story. I don't know man. I said it's a pretty good story and the end the manager was fired and the cloud over my father lifted. My father was Furious when I told him what I did but not for. A minute in the 15 years since have I felt that what I did was unethical nor have I felt guilty for having a man fired I do it again, but my accent would be

3 (21m 23s):
better.

1 (21m 31s):
I went to a small public high school in Times Square where around 80% of the student body was at or below the poverty line. We were mostly all black or Latin X. I was a high achiever. I wanted to go to the University of Chicago because I found the unofficial motto. We're fun goes to die appealing but there's no beating Harvard that name. I needed the name to keep my parents safe Harvard at the time did not know how to deal with undocumented students. When I was there a very successful Wall Street man who knew me from an educational NGO we both belong to he is a supporter me as a supported.

1 (22m 13s):
Learned I was undocumented and could not legally hold a work-study job. So every semester he wrote me a modest check in the note section. He cheekily wrote beer money. I wrote him regular emails about my life at Harvard and my budding success as a published writer. He was always appropriate inbound read I had read obsessively about artist since I was a kid and considered myself an artist since I was a kid, so I didn't feel weird about older wealthy white people giving me money in exchange for grades are writing it was patronage. They were Gertrude Stein and I was a young Hemingway. I was Van go crazy and broken. I truly did not have any racial anxieties about this.

1 (22m 53s):
Thank God. That kind of thing could really fuck a kid up different therapist throughout the years have tried to get me to confess to cultural shock about arriving to Harvard as a poor undocumented freshman, but the truth is there was none I've always had a really wonderful sense of self-esteem. Thanks to my mother who is a tiny bit of a narcissist and has delusions of royalty and because of my mental illness which comes with delusions of grandeur of its own so I kind of feel like it was my Birthright that probably makes a lot of people Mad as I began to receive my diagnosis and misdiagnosis throughout my 20s depression anxiety OCD bipolar disorder borderline personality disorder complex trauma.

1 (23m 45s):
I didn't feel anything other than Affinity with writers. I loved people like Emily Dickinson Sylvia Plath and Sexton and Robert Lowell it made sense to To me that I had my own demons, of course, I did. I've always been super casual when people ask me about my parents having left me in Ecuador. That's a Bravado. I'd like to keep on the official record. But sometimes I think about it. I haven't talked with my parents about their having left me in Ecuador when I was a year and a half old sometimes I do adorable things like take pictures of myself chugging vodka bottles or pretending to down the contents of a pill bottle and send them to my mother with a caption because you When I'm away from my partner and dog for a few days for work, and it's hard.

1 (24m 30s):
I wonder how my parents were able to do it for three years. I don't blame either of them for it. I never have what I'm describing to you is dirt extracted from a very tight pore. I don't feel anything about being left on the day-to-day, but I am told by mental health experts that it has affected me and I fought that conclusion. I didn't hide it. I wanted to be a genius. I wanted my mental illnesses to be purely biological. I wanted to have been born wild and crazy and weird and Brilliant writing math equations and chalk on a Instead therapist after therapist told me I had attachment issues and that my mental illnesses were related to my childhood.

1 (25m 13s):
I left those therapists ghosted them. But it's not just those early years without my parents that branded me. It's the life. I've LED America as a migrant as an undocumented person. I felt like a hologram. Nothing felt secure. I never felt safe. I didn't allow myself to feel Joy because I was scared to attach myself to anything. I'd have to let go of being deportable means you have to be ready to go at any moment. I've never loved a material object when my parents took me home after my Harvard graduation. We took the Chinatown Bus and we Took one suitcase of my bangs if it didn't fit. We threw it out. We threw out everything that wasn't close.

1 (25m 60s):
After I graduated from Harvard, I went to Yale to do a PhD and never wanted a PhD but doc I didn't exist then and I couldn't legally get a job anywhere and I had to buy time for something to happen for the DREAM Act to pass which my dad had assured me what happened since I was in Middle School and I needed the health insurance. It's allowed me to write and my parents will be proud. When I get that doctorate. I have fetched the American dream and laid it at my parents fee. But the Twisted inversion that many children of immigrants know is that at some point your parents become your children and your own personal American Dream becomes making sure they age and die with dignity in a country that has long wanted them dead.

1 (26m 41s):
A few years ago my father experienced heart failure. This was the moment. I had been preparing for my entire life everything that had happened to me since I took that new york-bound flight 24 years ago had been preparing me for this moment learning English getting bangs gaining weight losing weight getting the sick puppy from the pet shop. All of that happened to prepare me to this point. My parents are sick undocumented uninsured and aging out of work in a fucking Is this country until the pandemic it my father was a salad maker feeding Manhattan's executive class. He had worked for 14 years at the same restaurant than left.

1 (27m 23s):
He was invited to a promising new job lured there by an acquaintance who assured him of better hours better treatment a better environment. My dad is very gullible. He spent the week at this new restaurant where for spare change they had him work all day. And then at the end of the day, he was given just two and a half hours. Is to clean an industrial kitchen and Industrial fryer refrigerator a stove an oven and a sink wash the dishes in the dishwasher take out the trash sweep and mop the floors and clean the garbage Chute. His body was wracked at the end of each day. I'm too old for this. He said so he quit his old job wouldn't take him back desperate he begat each morning by showing up at a lot next job agency, which would send him out to audition at a different restaurant day after day.

1 (28m 11s):
Week after week to no avail. My dad started texting me blurry cell phone pictures from the job agency. He took the photos when he was sitting in the waiting room of the agency waiting for his name to be called. The first picture is of a man may be in his late 70s wearing a green button down khaki pants and aviator sunglasses. His lips are downcast. My dad said he was applying to be a dishwasher. The second picture is of a man may be in his late 40s who was wearing a black baseball cap the gray sweater and maroon pants my dad. He'd had a stroke his right arm was paralyzed and he had a limp in his right leg. He was also applying to be a dishwasher.

1 (28m 52s):
It's hard to see men like that not get jobs. My dad texted. I hope they have children who can take care of them. I respond what I mean to say is I hope they have a child like me. I hope everyone has a child like me. I tell God this is going to kill me. Anyway, so just take me Patton and mass produce and distribute me to in documentaries. It immigrants that Walmart's I'm a professional undocumented immigrants daughter. I save the photos on my phone as a reminder to myself of why I need to be successful. So successful statistical anomaly successful then I deleted them because they harmed my mental health.

1 (29m 36s):
I wish I still had them. My parents live in New York City and after the pandemic hit in March, they lost their jobs. They're both in Queens the center of the center of the epidemic. I've prohibited my father from doing dangerous gig work like deliveries and I've begun to financially support them both. My mom is immunocompromised. She has an extremely low white blood cell count. I've really lovely dreams crazy fucking cotton candy fantasy dreams dreams that make my whole body feel warm where I cut up my chest. No, anesthesia, take out my lungs and implant them into her chest with the tree Stitch. And if I'm lucky in the seconds, I have before I die.

1 (30m 16s):
I would be able to see her heart. We wouldn't even need a ventilator. There's a Harvard scholar named Roberto Gonzalez who has conducted longitudinal studies on the effects of undocumented life on young people. He found his subjects suffered chronic headaches toothaches ulcers sleep problems and eating issues, which is funny to fight in research because I get these migraines and eight or nine on the 10 point scale. I have a CAT scan and MRI, I go to the neurologist. The readings are all inconclusive. I'm told it's a migraine with an unknown cause Have you tried yoga they say? The headaches get worse when I write about my parents.

1 (30m 57s):
From migrant shot in the head by border patrol to my grandchildren being forcibly injected with drugs and detention centers us government's crimes against immigrants are beyond the pale and the whole world knows but when I was growing up and throughout the Obama Administration similar crimes were happening if on a different scale, and I'm not sure the same people cared. I felt crazy for thinking we were under attack watching. My neighbor's disappear and then going to school and watching the Nightly News and watching award shows and seeing no mention. I felt crazy watching the white supremacist State slowly kill my father. I would frantically tell everyone that there was no such thing as the American dream but then some All-Star immigrants around me who had done things the right way preached a different story in Americans ate that up.

1 (31m 46s):
It all made me feel crazy. I also am crazy better why researchers have shown that the flooding of stress hormones resulting from a traumatic separation from your parents at a young age kills off so many dendrites in neurons in the brain that it results in permanent psychological and physical changes one psychiatrist. I want to told me that my brain looks like a tree without branches. So I just think about all the children who have been separated from their parents and there's a lot of us past and present and some under more traumatic circumstances and others like those who are in internment camps right now, and I just imagine us as an army of mutants.

1 (32m 26s):
What will happen to us? Who will we become who will take care of us? We've all been touched by this monster and our brains are forever changed all of us trees without branches.

2 (32m 48s):
Carla Cornejo V of ascencio reading an essay adapted from a brand new Memoir the undocumented Americans

3 (33m 16s):
Race

2 (33m 26s):
coming up. I mean it was high school competition that years later becomes very very meaningful. That's in a minute. I'm just cocky public radio when our program continues support for This American Life comes from Capital One with the Capital One Quicksilver card.

1 (33m 44s):
Earn unlimited 1.5% cash back on every purchase everywhere

2 (33m 49s):
with Quicksilver. There's no limit to how much cash

1 (33m 52s):
back. You can earn Capital One what's in your wallet credit approval required Capital One Bank USA

2 (33m 59s):
na? This American Life Myra glass today's program and beginning stories where new details arrived that in big in the picture and thank you for the Simpsons, by the way for that word and change everything we have arrived at Act 2 of our show act to popular vote. So there are times when you discover an information Gap in your own past something you thought you knew everything about after all it happened to you and then somebody comes along and says no it didn't happen like that at all. What do you do with that new information Shawn call has a story like that. It begins more than a decade ago at a high school here Sean. The school was Granada Hills Charter High School gah CHS.

2 (34m 41s):
It's in the suburbs of AA huge more than 4,500 kids enrolled right now. It's the largest Charter School in the country and in the spring of 2007. It engaged in one of the most hallowed of American High School Traditions senior superlatives. He might have had these at your school kids vote. Each other most likely to succeed best smile cutest couple Mark snedeker was one of those kids.

3 (35m 4s):
I've been embarrassed about my superlatives for 10 years. Have you been I mean, I won most School spirited like nobody wants to win most School spirited. I put all of my closeted gay energy into school spirit, you know what I mean? Like I did the morning announcements. I was on student council. I did theater like I you know it I loved high

2 (35m 25s):
school. He also wanted a category called all Senior you were allowed to compete in two categories, but no more than that ngh CHS really put a lot into these superlatives. There was an election like usual with paper ballots, but instead of announcing the winners over the intercom or posting them on a hallway bulletin board. There was this event run by the senior Leadership Council which Mark was on a big ceremony and trophies all of the winners received a little replica of the Oscar statuette.

3 (35m 53s):
It wasn't unlike a roast like all the seniors were in Our Auditorium and I think I actually now that I'm realizing I think I helped give them out I say but I do remember, you know, reading names of some of my friends and cheering them on and all of my best friend's all one

2 (36m 11s):
things which make sense. Mark was popular. His friends were popular, but that was 13 years ago, and he had been thinking too much about the superlatives until recently.

3 (36m 22s):
I was at home cooking dinner and I got a text from my

2 (36m 25s):
friend my friend from high school

3 (36m 27s):
and All it said was please stop what you're doing and read this

2 (36m 30s):
it was a Facebook post posted to a private Facebook group for Mark's High School class the class of 2007 marked on Facebook. So it was the first he was seeing it and the text wasn't just a mark for other buddies from high school were on it as well.

3 (36m 44s):
We all read it and immediately we were all freaking out. I can't believe this on my God. This makes so much

2 (36m 51s):
sense. I wonder if you could just read the post. Do you have it there?

3 (36m 57s):
Totally so I he said hey guys one more thing before. I forget in the spirit of the new year. I'd like to take this opportunity to confess to all of you that I and one or two other members of senior Leadership Council O7 who will remain unnamed interfered with the class of 2007 senior superlatives. This is not a joke. We went to Great Lengths to forge. No less than 30 filled out ballots with all of our friends and acquaintances winning their respective categories. We attempted to rig literally every To go, right

2 (37m 27s):
so classic ballot stuffing with 30 forged ballots, at least the perpetrator goes on to say that not everyone he tried to fix the election for actually one and the nominees for each category. The choice is on the ballot. Those were all legit. It's just the outcome that was now in question. Again. This confession was coming 13 years after the fact.

3 (37m 48s):
Wow, I feel such a weight lifted off. My shoulders having finally confessed this. Thank you for reading. Oh my God.

2 (38m 1s):
Now it's not like Mark has been sitting around for the last 13 years clinging to his mini Oscar trophy to finding himself by his superlatives since high school. He's poured his no longer closeted energy into entertainment worked for Entertainment Weekly for a long time just moved over to Netflix, but it's not like he thinks he didn't deserve his Awards

3 (38m 19s):
whether or not he rigged. It's interesting to think about who really was rigged because like me, I really objectively was very School spirited.

2 (38m 28s):
And very all around scenery and a couple of friends on the text thread felt the same way. One of them said do you think people don't believe I had best eyes

3 (38m 37s):
we particularly were interested because the five of us all one we all won some different superlative and we all thought that was pretty cool because I think ultimately like high school senior superlatives are I mean, it's complicated right? They are absolutely meaningless and yet at the time they are such A huge deal because they are, you know, peer voted and nobody wants their memories kind of tampered with or invalidated right like subconsciously. We're all thinking to ourselves. Oh my God, what would 18 year old me have thought about me. Yeah, you know, like that's really at the core of all this we're all having imaginary conversations with their 18 year old selves thinking.

3 (39m 20s):
Oh my God, he can never know like this. Will this will uproot him. This will unravel him to find out You

2 (39m 28s):
know, which probably explains what happened next in short Mark posted a screenshot of the confession to Twitter not thinking much about it went off to the gym and when he came back, it had exploded more than a hundred fifty thousand likes and retweets and comments at this point most of them not GHC HS alums weirdly a lot of people wrote that the same thing had happened at their high school or that they themselves had rigged the superlatives election or it always suspected superlatives were rigged and now here was proof. A couple people pointed out something that I noticed too that the perpetrator never actually apologizes in his message. I didn't know this was going to go viral. I thought this was going to be shared with 400 people in my high school senior class Facebook page.

2 (40m 12s):
And that was it. This is Michael bar-lev of rigor of High School elections Confessor of high school transgressions, 30 years old now still living in LA and I had about a hundred questions for him Chief among them why it took him so long to come. Gene and what it had been like sitting with the weight of that guilt for so many years you say at the end of the confession. Hang on. I feel such a weight lifted off my shoulder weight lifted off my shoulders yet. What is that? Is that did you? No, that was just me being a that was just me being cynical in truth. There was no wait. No guilt. In fact, Michael had wanted to come clean right away.

2 (40m 55s):
But a bunch of more pressing things took his attention. He was diagnosed with cancer actually went through treatment got better moved on. It was only when he saw his former classmates talking about a potential reunions on the Facebook page that he thought of all this again and the thing you need to know about Michael unlike Mark. He was a slacker senior year checked out only In his words smoking weed and getting laid and then he found out there's a superlative for that biggest case of senioritis. And I remember begging everybody in my homeroom to nominate me and I asked all my friends like I really want to get senioritis like I want this because he was competitive about being a slacker and organized about it.

2 (41m 36s):
The only picked for super easy classes senior year including he says senior Leadership Council which ran the election so he knew that no one would I'd notice if during class he and an accomplice hung out for a while near The Ballot Box where they're also happened to be a stack of blank ballots handy and one thing Michael Learned right away rigging an election can be complicated. There was actually one category. I remember we're two girls were were both nominated nominated for the same category and we were friends with both of them. And so like we just filled out an equal number of ballots for each of them because I didn't want a favor. I didn't want to favor either one because I like them both. Was it a kind of thing where like other people really wanted a certain superlative or we're like, you know, I mean like you really wanted biggest case of senioritis and you were begging people in your homeroom to nominate you well, let's let's not let's not let's let's not go crazy.

2 (42m 29s):
I wasn't begging anybody. Okay. I'm sorry folks. Just pausing here. Can we go back to that tape? We played like 60 seconds ago, and I remember begging everybody in my homeroom to nominate me. Thank you anyway. Votes were in Ballot Box was stuffed and it came time for that big event where they announced all the winners the whole time. I was super nervous like every time a new category was being announced the winners were being announced. I was like, oh man, is it are we gonna win? This one? Are we gonna win? This one? Are we gonna win this one? And like every time somebody was announced as the winner. I was like who is that guy won because of me or was like, oh shit the got the girl that I wanted to win didn't win or you know, because like I said, not everybody that we try to fix it for One and then when my friend who helped me rig it one his category and then when I won my category was just like it was just so sweet.

2 (43m 25s):
I'll never forget it. They announce the winners and the winners would go up on stage. We got our trophies and then he went backstage for a picture that would go into the yearbook which was important to him proof of his victory. It was yeah like a something that I would never forget. That would be a page in the yearbook reminding me and my friend that we interfered with this. Shit, and that all of our friends are most of our friends won their category whether or not they would have otherwise I kind of wanted to make it absurd like ridiculous Preposterous. Some of the people who won their categories absolutely should not have won their categories and that delighted him and a diabolical way it did then and it does now the lack of apology in his confession wasn't just an oversight.

2 (44m 11s):
What is there to apologize for? What is there to apologize for honestly like yeah, I was an asshole. Yeah, what I did was dishonest. Yeah, it was shady. Yeah, I was insensitive, but I would definitely do it again the exact same way really if I had absolutely I wouldn't do anything differently. I think it's going to be a net positive impact at least. I hope so man. I hope that what people take away from this is that you should not put value into things that are so arbitrary and silly like popularity and who has the best hair or the best smile or who's the biggest flirt or who's most likely to become president or who's most likely to whatever it's like it's just a pinion man.

2 (44m 56s):
Like it's completely subjective. There's no Meaning behind it then, you know Michaels hearts in the right place. But as far as I can tell the person from Michael's High School class whose most concerned about these senior superlatives is Michael if you squint at it for a second, he cared so much about getting an award for carrying the least the senioritis award that he went to quote Great Lengths to commit electoral fraud also in the comments below his Facebook confession and my conversations with some of his classmates. No one else. Seems that all invested at this point and who won or

3 (45m 32s):
lost we all were just dying of

2 (45m 34s):
laughter. He lose Shiraz Port was awarded class clown in 2007. He says he and his friends were not the least upset reading Michaels Facebook post.

1 (45m 42s):
We just kind of laughed and joked about this and I have some friends that lost and we said, oh, you know like you was you like they rigged it against you.

2 (45m 53s):
Like you were the one who should have gotten it.

1 (45m 55s):
Yeah, exactly. But yeah, apparently the Deep State senior superlative Council got to them.

2 (46m 5s):
Did it make you question whether or not you were actually the class

1 (46m 8s):
clown? I think for sure I won

2 (46m 14s):
fair and square

1 (46m 16s):
I think so. I like to think I was funny back in high school is like five to very short and like look very young for my age. So all I had was a personality.

3 (46m 29s):
So that's all I could

2 (46m 31s):
do. Pretty much everyone. I talked to felt this way since there's no way of really knowing there were like sure maybe somebody else got a superlative. They shouldn't have gotten but mine was totally

1 (46m 41s):
Left my girlfriend ever and I won cutest

2 (46m 43s):
couple. This is David Gardner. He's a nursing student in Colorado

1 (46m 47s):
now and that for sure wasn't rigged

2 (46m 51s):
because you are the cutest couple. I mean, we're still together, you know, he was at home studying when I called him ever his girlfriend ever was there too. She's pursuing a doctorate in Psychology. Did you know the other couples that were up for cutest couple

1 (47m 6s):
I honestly don't remember instead of joke about it didn't really matter because we weren't going to lose stop. Oh my God,

2 (47m 21s):
if I only knew which name's Michael checked off on this fake ballots. I could ask those people what they thought now if the all of this changed anything for them, but Michael refused to give me those names it was one thing confessing to what he did in a general way, but pointing to individual people and saying they wouldn't have won. If not for me that just seemed mean and They did end up asking him about one person in particular Mark snedeker who posted Michaels confession on Twitter. They were in senior Leadership Council together. Yeah. I knew Mark very well. He was really popular. Yeah at this point Michael took a peek in the old yearbook. He brought along with him for the interview. Yeah, so he won most School spirited and he won all around senior.

2 (48m 3s):
Did he win those fair and square or did he win those because you stuff the ballot bug you can't how the fuck am I supposed to know? Well, it's like white man's your vote. No way to know did. You vote for him on those ballots that you stuffed. Before I answer that let's let's acknowledge that it doesn't matter. Okay will acknowledge that. It doesn't matter. Okay, we so you acknowledge that this answer. I'm about to give you is arbitrary, but I'm going to give it to you anyway, okay, good. Yeah. Yeah I voted for I wanted him to win because he was a good he was a good guy. Uh-huh. Yeah, so I he was definitely one of the guys I fixed it for for sure and told Mark what Michael said?

3 (48m 41s):
Oh my God, but at the same time like Girl, who's to say that everybody else didn't think I was a good guy to like, you know, come on. I mean look if he deemed us good friends enough to have rigged it for me, you know, cool. Thanks a lot. Dude. Like you have labeled me as most School spirited for 10 years and I would happily disavow myself with that. You know. Yeah, you know, I this makes me smile because Michael was like was fun. We had a good time in high school together. So I it's it's nice to hear that he believed in me enough to rig votes in my

2 (49m 18s):
favor. In other words while Michael worried that learning the news might make Mark feel bad. It didn't come close in fact the opposite but here's the real effect that Michaels rigging the election had and the way that he did it because it was just 30 fake ballads in effect. What he's done is create a superlative sized black hole of information for everyone involved. Like he says a lot of the winners might have won anyway, but they might not have a lot of the losers might have lost any Way, but maybe they would have won. So what we're left with is an extremely rare occurrence. I can't think of another one in which a brand-new piece of definitive clear information that the election was rigged actually makes it so that everyone knows less than they did before.

3 (50m 15s):
John

2 (50m 15s):
Cole is one of the producers of our

3 (50m 17s):
program.

2 (50m 46s):
at 3 tunnel vision So this last story was first in our show back in 2015. That was the O Canada hosted the Pan American games but a few months before the games began. Somebody made a mysterious Discovery close to the Toronto venue for the games. It was a secret tunnel and I just like some shabby half-baked instruction. This is tall enough to stand in 33 feet long. We're support beams apply wood ceiling walls. It had water resistant lighting a generator sump pump to pump out groundwater and at the end of the tunnel two little rooms were still. Under construction even more intriguing the decor rosary and a plastic red poppy nailed to the wall Canadians use the poppy to commemorate Fallen Soldiers on Remembrance Day in the United States all this got a little bit of coverage but in Canada 2015, it was big news.

2 (51m 36s):
No one knows who dug the 30-foot long tunnel near the site of this year's Pan American games in Toronto

1 (51m 43s):
and bizarre tunnel found near one of the venues for the upcoming Pan Am games has sparked fears of an imminent terror attack.

3 (51m 48s):
Rarely has a dirt tunnel received so much

1 (51m 51s):
attention. No one knows why it was created. You told their kid to dig to China and the kid actually. Actually

3 (51m 57s):
about it's not just a sophistication that police say is troubling with the lack of suspects or a

2 (52m 2s):
motive but something unexplained like this happens, of course people go nuts speculating about what it could be in this case the media pondered whether the tunnel would be used to plant a bomb at the upcoming Pan Am games nearby the Pan Am games are looking Olympics for North and South and Central America. Maybe somebody was going to build a meth lab in the tunnel or an operation to grow marijuana, but they would use a tunnel to hide foreign athletes from the I'm games. You might want to stay in Canada. Illegally on Twitter. It was hashtag Terror tunnel, but the truth of what was going on in that tunnel and what its purpose was was nothing like any of that and the way the Canadian police figured it out.

2 (52m 43s):
Okay. First of all, can I say sometimes one is reminded of what a very different Country Canada is from the United States as part of the Manhunt for whoever built the tunnel a policeman tweeted. If you build a tunnel near the Rexall Centre in Toronto, give us a call, okay? The Toronto police pointed out that it is not illegal to dig a hole apparently no law was broken from the start. They said they saw no evidence of terrorism and they did not want to jump to conclusions. For instance. Here's a exchange between then Toronto deputy chief Mark Saunders and reporters after I showed him a photo of that rosary and plastic

3 (53m 14s):
poppy. This was found inside the actual tunnel itself, and it was nailed on the on the wall that tells me that this was nailed inside the tunnel on a wall.

2 (53m 28s):
The police basically went on TV and showed pictures of the stuff that they found in the tunnel a ladder and the generator in the sump pump and they asked the public this jog anybody's memory anybody know anything about this stuff and that turned out to be exactly the right move because watching that coverage was a guy named Boko Marik, he sees that ladder

3 (53m 47s):
and I said to myself they look exactly like Mike stepladder and I betrayed him any this is

2 (53m 53s):
mine. I bet you any money. This is mine and

3 (53m 56s):
then when I saw A sump pump I said, oh ho ho my stepladder and some pain but I couldn't believe I couldn't believe like I couldn't believe myself. I couldn't sleep. I was thinking about that.

2 (54m 9s):
He couldn't sleep because he knew who he given the stuff to Bob is contractor and event that stuff to one of his favorite employees as young guy just 22 Elton. What was Elton doing and come to think that Elton had been asking to borrow a lot of tools lately.

3 (54m 25s):
He was asking me or Shower for Peak for another shovel another tools so many tools I just would say okay if you need take

2 (54m 40s):
Boku loves because it opens a great worker. He goes that unlike other young people Bob's worked with in the past. Apparently Alden always wants to learn ask lots of

3 (54m 50s):
questions. What do you do when you do the roof how you connect this how you put joist hangers? What is distance between In that can I do this instead of that is this going to carry this support? Unbelievable, you know and I drop it everybody if everybody asked me. Who is that guy? This is my adopted son. Helpful. Always I used to sell. This is my adopted son. Okay, so I would lend him any tools. He

2 (55m 15s):
went so morning after he sees the police pointing to a photo of his ladder and sump pump on television. He goes to pick up Alton to bring it to work like always out and gets in the truck here.

3 (55m 27s):
At two coffees for me and him and I said Elton tell me one thing that sometime I didn't even ask full question. He said walk. Oh, yes. I did. Oh my God

2 (55m 42s):
vocal went to the authorities and made sure that I would not get arrested or go to prison for this and then he turned him in. Please talk to Elton satisfied themselves that out and was not a terrorist or an evil criminal mastermind, but just some guy I'm go didn't even give him a fine though. They did suggest that he not dig more tunnels Canada. So who is album? Why did you do it? Why go to the trouble welding has not given many interviews that we did a lot one reporter named Nick core spend a couple days with him and his family to write this long story about them in Maclean's magazine. And Nick was able to tell us a lot about Elton Elton turned down our request for an interview Alton was made.

2 (56m 27s):
Two minutes from the Ravine and woods with the tunnel was found in a kind of rough neighborhood in public housing. Nick says, both of his parents are from Jamaica. He lives with two sisters an older sister and a younger sister and they all live with their mother out in the quiet in the family. Nick says everybody else is Big talker and I think in particular his older sister, uh Nora she she has a lot of ideas about how Elton should be living his life and she's not shy about of sharing that with him. She's a big fan of self-help books. And so I think Elton is often in the position of listening to life talks as they put advice advice.

2 (57m 15s):
And Elton found Refuge ever since he was a kid in the Ravine and the Ravine there were no life talks from the time. He was a little out in was this introspective kid who loved to build to take machines apart and put them back together. He fixed up old lawn mowers, he built clubhouses and like I said, you know short interview that Nick recorded for a video that Maclean's Magazine made he'd go to the Ravine.

3 (57m 41s):
Okay what I used to intervene when I was a kid is Run around play hide-and-go-seek with play like apple or we'll go fishing, but I started my first tunnel probably when I was in elementary school. I just go in the creek walk around and this is something on my mind. I wanted to do it a clubhouse. I had five or six attempts and I think the sixth one was the huge Stone the guy found.

2 (58m 10s):
I've heard him call it the sort of the future of Clubhouse. Again, here's Nick the the Tree House of the future that it's underground because one of the fundamental things he wanted from this was that it be it be secret. It was his secret place that he could go and just relax and be alone and not always allowed a friend helped out and dig the tunnel and build it Excavating. He thinks to dump trucks of dirt by hand. And once it was done, they would go there together watch movies. Listen to music barbecue.

3 (58m 46s):
Okay, did this because something I was want to be doing but I know like I should have grown out of it. And I knew that okay, if I build a tunnel it came from childhood reasons, but at the same time if I bought it, who knows I could probably hang out there turned out childhood dream into like a man cave or bunker whatever you call this a place to go hang out and if there's something to happen like a natural disaster or something would happen. Could go there. There's a blackout turn on a generator to charge my phone even make a swell new down there just to bring back up to my

2 (59m 19s):
house. Back went out and we go to the tunnel. The sisters did not know exactly what he was doing. But they knew something was up for months while I was digging the thing. He would come home just covered in dirt tracking dirt everywhere nor I thought he was building some kind of underground house and grilled him about it, but he wouldn't say is that their sister Tracy and found the rosary actually sitting at a bus stop and gave it to him to protect

3 (59m 44s):
him. So the shrooms like soon she gave it to me like hour later. I was ready down there and nailed it up. Every day after that day every day where I will go there or sometimes make a prayer not every day. Some days. I'll forget what sometimes I'll remember to have a little prayer to some safe and it's a peace of mind. Yeah, the

2 (1h 0m 6s):
reality of Hilton's turn out it was so different from what people thought it was when it was first discovered by police. I think what that's about is, I think when we encounter something it's inexplicable or mysterious our imaginations. We are such hacks.

1 (1h 0m 21s):
You know

2 (1h 0m 22s):
we go to the most standard stock seen it in a hundred TV shows version of what something probably is like. Oh, it's a terrorist attack. Oh, it's drug dealers, you know when the reality of what this tunnel was it was this dreamy guy, which is one of the place to get away from his sister's be alone for a little while so much smaller, but so much less predictable way more interesting.

3 (1h 0m 55s):
Tell me everything, you know, don't leave I go to work tell me everything, you know. Don't leave out a way. How can I trust you? After all the things I've

2 (1h 1m 20s):
heard well program is produced today by being marooned me people put a show together today include Susan Burton Ben Calhoun. Then the chip is Sean cold Hillary Elkins nor gilday. Me and Grave Michelle Harris dough Nelson Catherine a Mondo been failing. Naughty Raymond Robbins seminar was a ship will be Sullivan Crystal Swatara my Tierney and Julie Whitaker are managing editors, Diane. Woo and Sarah. I'm Doraemon executive editor David kazdin bomb special. Thanks today to Eric Buchman first reported on the nurse at least Barrett for the website stat, the college that Christopher Murray and the institute for health metrics and evaluation and in Moscow vien Jericho Aguas bread and get his Avery Schreiber and Katie Cedarburg our website This American Life dot-org while you're on lockdown or commuting to your essential job.

2 (1h 2m 1s):
You can listen to our Archive of seven hundred episodes for absolutely free This American Life dot-org This American Life is to covid public radio stations by PRX the public radio exchange sport for This American Life comes from Life way Foods. The no culture is important because they're the makers. Of America's best-selling cultured kefir learn more about kefir the protein-packed probiotics superfood at Lifeway Foods.com. Thanks as always to our programs co-founder. Mr. Troy mallick to you know, the thing he likes to do most while in lockdown play Monopoly, but can I say he is getting so competitive. What is there to apologize for honestly like yeah. I was an asshole.

2 (1h 2m 41s):
Yeah. What I did was dishonest. Yeah. It was shady. Yeah, I was insensitive, but I would definitely do it again.

3 (1h 2m 48s):
Exact same way.

2 (1h 2m 49s):
I'm Ira Glass back next week with more stories of This

3 (1h 2m 52s):
American Life.

2 (1h 3m 7s):
That's week on the podcast of this American live in China weaker families are being cut off from the outside world put into Education Centers forced labor and prisons we go man in turkey has no idea what happened to his family back in China and then he discovers Tick-Tock. He watched his video after video until he sees a

3 (1h 3m 26s):
little boy we thinks is his son

2 (1h 3m 31s):
happens next next week on the podcast on your local public radio

1 (1h 3m 34s):
station.