1 (1s):
Support for This American Life comes from Capital One with the Capital One Quicksilver card with Quicksilver. You earn unlimited 1.5% cash back on every purchase everywhere. What's in your wallet? A quick warning. There are curse words that are unbeaten today's episode of the show. If you prefer a beep version, you can find that at our website This American Life dot-org. So one of the things that's happening right now around the world is that you have all these couples happy ones struggling couples couples in that kind of you know, things seem ok, but I don't know Hayes tens of millions of couples can find for weeks. Now the relationships being remolded by this lockdown.

3 (43s):
It's an accelerator. It's a relationship accelerator. So it rearranges the priority and throws the Superfluous overboard, you know in a very clarifying way for many of us.

1 (56s):
What's happening with couples? I reached out to Esther perel who's a couples therapist. If you've heard of her, she's probably best known for this idea from her book mating in captivity that takes a toll on couples and kills passion and there's not enough distance between the partners they turn to each other for everything for friendship and the sense of identity and comfort and everything a whole village used to provide a person which is very aware that under lockdown people are literally turning to the partners for everything these days using a full schedule of couples. More than she usually does interestingly. She says this is an unusually good moment for therapy and lots and lots of clients were opening up figuring out things in ways that don't normally like some of the men in the couples sex for the first time.

1 (1m 39s):
They

3 (1m 39s):
actually doing therapy. It's exciting for basically because they stop this slow down their home and in there. They're like, they're like this blossoming of opening up and

1 (1m 52s):
say wow three,

3 (1m 54s):
dudes, you know three Men Had Each just accept like I don't want to get off the phone because you know, it's very

1 (2m 1s):
moving for most of the couples that you're seeing. What's your sense has the lockdown been good for them or bad for them?

3 (2m 10s):
Soon this is such an interesting thing to say. Really both really bored. I can't say one or the other

1 (2m 22s):
trouble struggling the most are pretty much exactly the ones you'd expect people who even before all this so quick to pick up their partners and criticize them and argue over whose sacrificing most for whom but also in this moment when our lives have been so profoundly disrupted another group doing badly

3 (2m 39s):
people who you know, they've lost someone or they have someone who's sick or they are they are anxious. They are worried. Basically, the partner is unable to have an empathic response.

2 (2m 51s):
You know, what are you worried

3 (2m 53s):
about? It's like there's nothing you know, and people tell you you know, my partner is the last person I'm turning to for anything. I'm feeling right now. It's like I have no where to go with this to just kind of be able to be upset or scared or this constant sense of loss just of the logo the world. They've known their own identity their

2 (3m 12s):
works all of that

1 (3m 15s):
extreme. Chances are also driving people to reprioritize the stairs seen couples split up another's move in together add. But if I most fascinating role reversals, she's canceling one couple where one of the partners was always seen as the insecure one should struggle through a traumatic childhood. It was agreed between the two of them that she was a troubled one who can turn her stronger more together partner, but now with the deadly virus everywhere, she's on the difficult childhood gave her all kinds of coping and managing skills.

3 (3m 45s):
She's You know, I have known chaos, you put me in this crisis. I know what to do. I knew what to do before anybody around me. I was in that Supermarket. I even look to good stuff for the parents of my girlfriends who aren't who is not even here because I knew that he would need this and I just felt like now the world is clear to me. I know what it needs from me and you know in this particular relationship to women and it was a very interesting thing because it

2 (4m 17s):
had

3 (4m 19s):
I don't think that side of her I had ever been known it had always been described as you the one with the issues because you come from this very traumatic

1 (4m 27s):
background. So she became the functional one in the

3 (4m 30s):
relationship. It was like a whole different way of being but it was also a revelation to herself this turned everything around

1 (4m 40s):
suddenly. She wasn't seeking your partner's approval all the time. She didn't need it which of course is healthy. Great, except for the partner who is used to being the strong one. Like it's one thing to waste at the person you're with is more assertive less needy. What do you do when you get that wish it made her uncomfortable and the way this played out did not surprise the

3 (5m 1s):
stair. Oh and when I when I am not comfortable with someone who is emancipating right next to me. I basically try to make them doubt themselves again, because if they doubt themselves with their not sure then they come to

1 (5m 13s):
me, so that's what she was doing.

2 (5m 16s):
Yes in all

3 (5m 17s):
kinds of very subtle ways. Of course it you know, this is not flagrant.

1 (5m 22s):
So she would say things to encourage your formally dependent partner second-guess yourself to doubt herself things. Like it's

3 (5m 30s):
so interesting that you want to do that. I thought you didn't really that that was not what you wanted to do or you human once mentioned to me that that's that you don't want to bring your mom. If you don't want it Go your father will die. It's a bit of a mind twist just Gentleman to see you. Don't mean to you dude. It looks like it's a very rational conversation

1 (5m 59s):
with other couples step process being on lockdown is forcing them to confront things that they've been avoiding might have never actually stopped to figure out a couple like this on our podcast. She does a show called where should we begin? We should record the therapy sessions with real couples who volunteer to do this anonymously on a Podcast right now. The sessions are couples on lockdown and episode 2 of the season the couple was living apart before covid-19. They had been together living in Italy, but you got a job offer in Germany caused a huge Rift. She went to Germany with the teenage daughter. He didn't then this year when it really became a hot spot for the virus. He finally moved in with him.

1 (6m 39s):
Finally he and she had to deal with each other.

3 (6m 42s):
They were on the verge of divorcing the moment. This is over, you know, this is an interesting situation because covid-19 basically brought them together Under One Roof. They have been apart for a year and a half in each one feels the other one abandoned them. So covid-19 resolve the standoff between them because neither of them had to make the decision because

1 (7m 5s):
the way the virus

3 (7m 6s):
decided and now they're under the same. Oof and neither of them had to give in but once they're together. They are in a constant, you know attack one person talks the other one listens until they found the thing they can disagree with and that's where they enter and now they're going to start arguing

1 (7m 26s):
and it's interesting. There's a point where like they keep having the same fight over and over and you keep saying to them stop having this fight and and there's a moment in the session where he actually is being kind to her and sort of inviting. So interesting what happens like you said I am very busy and today I wanted to cook for you instead of doing something else. So I did that without even telling you and you suddenly said you don't appreciate you know, I appreciate but would have been better

2 (7m 54s):
if I would have cook and then we were eating altogether. So you did a great thing today to hook their lunch, but you didn't have lunch with us basically because you were between two holes. Here are just five minutes to eat and I prefer to eat. Anything with you besides you cooking to let us eat. You know what? I mean? I don't know. Let's plan what make us happy maybe because would have been better if we would have shared those 15 minutes of the launch

1 (8m 24s):
and some cons make it

2 (8m 26s):
right? No. No, but there is there is nothing wrong in think you should meet the criticism. Yes, but he's not he's not. I'm just saying I would love to have lunch with you and I would prefer to cook instead of view. If you have to spend those 15 minutes cooking for us is better that you make one call in those 15 minutes while I'm cooking and then you dedicate the next 15 minutes just to eat together. I'm not criticizing anything,

1 (8m 57s):
but I'm scared to ask you to cook again because I see all the things that you're doing. Right? What the fuck I'm just

3 (9m 2s):
looking like one second one second one second and this moment was important if you go so fast, you didn't even miss this because you want to know if he cares and he just told you. I would rather eat with you, whatever he just gave it to you on a platter. But you only heard the piece about it would have been better. If you hadn't

2 (9m 32s):
cooked.

3 (9m 34s):
You don't wear that what he meant with that was because I would have wanted that time with you. It's like you hear that which you want to hear even if it's what you fear hearing and that you're not hearing what he's actually telling you. I'm not so sure that love is gone. But I think that the lovers have become invisible to the love that is

1 (10m 1s):
this WOW, but it she just said oh my God, that was the wow

3 (10m 7s):
set.

1 (10m 14s):
Set this thing to the couple that I don't know. Maybe anybody who's ever been in a couple would find useful. She says to them notice that behind every criticism. There's a wish which to be closer. Sister says she sees other couples in the same situation as this one. They're stuck in the same fight and everything leads back to that fight everything. The other person says, they're too far gone to fix it. For this couple was able to do she says let's put aside the fight for a moment and talk about the feelings. They were having for each other underneath all that by the end of the therapy session. They're speaking in a sincere and heartfelt way that they had in a long time. So I called

3 (10m 52s):
you and this crisis started and

1 (10m 54s):
you came. Take care of us

3 (10m 58s):
and I appreciate

1 (10m 59s):
that. And I don't want to lose

2 (11m 2s):
this.

3 (11m 5s):
This covid-19 for this couple will save the couple that was literally otherwise on its way out. They were going to do another one year of fighting like this and then you know, one of them would meet somebody else and that would be the end of that story 17 years. It's not like they just met

1 (11m 24s):
yesterday. Other couples don't get to this point episode 3 of her podcast. This season is another couple who cannot stop themselves from fighting the same fight over and over they decided to divorce two weeks before lockdown and since then I've gotten so much worse

3 (11m 41s):
living with someone who's has so much contempt for me and feels that I am trying to control you by asking you to isolate with your family, which is what the governor is asking us to do. And I'm sorry that that doesn't work with your social plans. But this is a time that people are suffering in argue with you anymore. No, but you

2 (12m 6s):
are I'm saying I'm not happy about it,

3 (12m 9s):
but you but you are you are arguing have a choice you are arguing as of

1 (12m 13s):
yesterday and it's interesting you lecture them in that episode a few times with the tone. I feel like we don't usually hear from you.

3 (12m 20s):
Yes, I'm basically saying you have a task to accomplish you are in lockdown to And this is your mission right now. That's your project. What you feel about each other is rather irrelevant. You you are two parents you chose to be here in this house together what you're going to do this on each other the whole time just to remind the other that you kind of just did you resent having to be here or are you just simply going to try to be as civil as you can be and make this tolerable for everyone

1 (12m 49s):
so many couples the stress of lockdown makes things worse. There are any reports from China as it comes out a lot down the divorce may be on the rise there.

2 (12m 58s):
So

1 (12m 59s):
who are the couples who are doing better

3 (13m 1s):
who does better is the people who think what can I learn here? What is this telling me about what actually matters in my life or what? I really want to do. I'm becoming more aware of things because a we have never slowed down like this never on a global level has we slowed down like this. It's a long time that we have only been accelerating accelerating accelerating and for the first time and I don't think we have begun even to understand what this is gonna do to you too have had to really you know, experience what that kind of a Slowdown will do

1 (13m 43s):
Who will I be when this is done? Who knows seriously trying to guess the ultimate effect of this National shut down on couples our kids education on the economy on ourselves. It's like the viruses from the future into this black box. We can make our guesses. We can just accept we'll know when we know for those of us who like more certainty in our lives. Well tough luck today in our program. We have people trying in various situations. Live with a lack of information not happy about that fact that all but doing their best WBZ Chicago is This American Life. I'm Ira Glass stay with us.

1 (14m 32s):
I Quan. I found flickers in the dark. So one part of the World Woods a kind of information vacuum, at least for those of us who aren't there. It's a kind of black box is sinkiang. Ina if you pictured China, okay, it's in the northwest corner far from China's big cities the size of Mexico nestled up against Kazakhstan and a few other stands and I think we it's been more like them than like 90% of China. For instance. It's home to the uyghurs who speak their own language. It's close to Turkish not Mandarin Chinese most workers are Muslim for a long time that we use face discrimination and arbitrary detention in China. If you follow the news, you probably know this escalated beginning in 2014.

1 (15m 12s):
When the government started accusing hundreds of thousands of uyghurs of supporting terrorism and wanting to separate from China and sent them to so-called re-education centers, the better described as internment camps former detainees report being beaten women have testified that they were forcibly sterilized state department has estimated that up to two million people were held in these camps but information about what's really going on in sinkiang is hard to come by but we goes outside of sinkiang and want to check on the families back home with some families. Are effectively blocked from all communication others the government monitors phone calls. You don't want to say anything that will lead to officials banging on your family store. So we use in the diaspora of turned to tick tock.

1 (15m 56s):
Yes total listeners you think of tick-tock is the op where the kids are making Dance videos and jokes that you do not understand but they have started in China. The Chinese version of tick tock is called duyen. It is insanely popular over 400 million users a day because it's a visual the government. Not so great at censoring it as a result. It's a place where uncensored content gets out of sinkiang their videos posted by uyghurs. But also by government officials who've been sent there to manage uyghurs here is a tick tock video that seems to have been posted by an official has been assigned to live with weaker family in their house as a kind of minder seems like maybe he posted this show, you know, everything's fine. We're getting along everything's great in the video the minders eating breakfast with the two kids from the family.

1 (16m 42s):
In the garden, he smiles at the camera turns into the little boy eating next to him. And then in Weger the boy says to his mom Focus. Come on. Dad comes home. This guy. I'll leave the boy. Something systemic. Mom is coming on Monday official doesn't seem to understand a word of that. Now here is a video posted presumably by somebody who's Weaver. It's a woman with long dark hair sitting in a car while the song Faded by Alan Walker plays in the background. It is something off about this. It is not a normal Tick Tock video of somebody dancing. She's beating her chest with her fist to the beat and then you realize there are dozens of these same kind of video using the same song Everybody beating their chests.

1 (17m 30s):
It's like a Virtual protest still like I say there are lots of uyghurs trying to figure out what's going on in sinkiang what's happening to their own families. Their dirty boots. Karen is a reporter living in Turkey where a lot of uyghurs settled many of them in the last five years has been talking with one man for months. He's been obsessed with these Tick-Tock videos with anything else. You can find that will give them a look inside Ching chongs Black Box because what he values the most in this world so I can sign and the rest of his family. Stuck inside

3 (18m 2s):
your story abdelrahman Totti fled China seven years ago after getting arrested and tortured for learning Arabic. He wanted to read the Quran today. He still doesn't have much feeling in his feet. But let me tell you how I met his wife because it's a sweet story when abdelrahman got to Istanbul he wanted to settle down and start a family of his own. So he turned to his dad back and change on the person. He trusts most in the world and asked him to help him find someone back. Home for him to marry his dad went around talk to other parents and he found purita a biology student with brown eyes and the kind of face abdelrahman and purita talked on WeChat.

3 (18m 42s):
That's the main social media platform in China. They couldn't say much because they knew the government monitored calls to foreign numbers the conversation was stilted but they got a sense for each other and they decided to get married. So she packed her bags and boarded a plane to Turkey. Abdulrahman was so excited.

1 (19m 0s):
So you still wanted the players will arrive at 2 o'clock in the night. So I went to the airport to pick her out. I bought a big rose flower and I put a Quran in the middle and I put a ring on the top of the Quran for taking out her up from the airport.

3 (19m 24s):
He brought a photo of her to make sure he could figure out. ER out who she was he was in the terminal with a group of friends waiting people were streaming out of the Customs area and he sees her

1 (19m 38s):
look was all goes that the mouse is in the future for you. I said, it's my wife. She said are you crazy? You don't recognize your wife then she left. It wasn't her. It's not Parada

3 (19m 59s):
and dr. Robbins. Starting to worry, like maybe she's not coming. Then he see someone else who looks like her goes up to her shows her the picture. She's like no, that's not me. But as he's turning to leave she calls him back. It was her

1 (20m 14s):
uncle design work on the consumer for her phone. I'll assure me my picture and asked me I use this guy in the phone in the picture I say yet and that's why we met first time.

3 (20m 26s):
She was messing with him. I

1 (20m 28s):
want to do I look tired Solan I put the ring on his hand and the girl has of the flower and the Turks around us asking what's happening. I get him area where from suddenly it became a kind of party people are giving us gift. I'll kind of chocolate candies and the same congratulation and that it was a really happy moment for us

3 (20m 51s):
a police officer working at the airport says hey I'm week or two. He gives them a police escort back home lights flashing. It's like a movie. Not too long after abdirahman and purita had a son. They named him Abdul Aziz after his grandfather and Abdul Aziz becomes his dad's Mini-Me everything. Abdulrahman did abdulaziz would follow from the way he stood to his table manners

1 (21m 15s):
emotional is so much room for all of us. He likes the car. Even when I driving my car he want to sit front of me and driving. It was me.

3 (21m 26s):
This was in a parking lot after Ramen was teaching purita how to drive and eight. Not old abdulaziz would sit on his dad's lap and grab the stick shift. He's throw a fuss if he couldn't could look a

1 (21m 37s):
little more was really cute. I used to try to copy everything I do

3 (21m 42s):
but Abdul rahman's relationship with pretas family with Rocky right from the start. Abdulrahman is religious, but her family is secular and pretty wealthy, but the heart of the problem was that pretas parents felt like she was wasting her education in Turkey. She had a degree, but she wasn't using it she wanted to Stay home with their son when Abdul Aziz is born creative parents started asking her to come back to sinkiang for a long visit maybe even to leave abdul-aziz with them for a while and weaker families. It's really common for grandparents to take care of their grandkids for their first five years of life while the parents work the pressure from back home got really intense, but Abdul Rahman and purita were hesitant to leave turkey for starters.

3 (22m 26s):
I'll be Ramen couldn't go with her to shame John because he was sure he'd be arrested if he returned. China and by this point it was 2015. They've been hearing whispers about added surveillance about uyghurs being detained in sinkiang. They don't know exactly what's happening, but they know it's not good.

1 (22m 42s):
You'll said look I asked my wife. What do you say if you want to visit them we can try but I don't feel good about it. And I afraid you will not be able to come back again because of the situation down there and she said I know I you crazy. I really don't want to travel.

3 (23m 0s):
It is parents kept insisting that it was safe. At least for them. They were loyal to the party and they had high level government contacts. They're not religious if Abdul Aziz was with them. They said it would be okay. They were pushing but abdelrahman and purita kept saying no a few months later. Abdulrahman was walking by a pretzel shop in his neighborhood when the police stopped him and asked for stress. NC papers, this permit had elapsed heat applied for a new one, but it hadn't arrived yet. So they arrested him took him to a Detention Center. This happens to a fair number of uyghurs in Turkey.

3 (23m 43s):
They'll be detained for a paperwork issue and they'll get stuck for a while in Abdul rahman's case. He was locked up for three months allowed. Just one phone call home every week farida. Meanwhile was home alone with their toddler and Pregnant close to her due date. When abdelrahman finally got out this whole world had changed his wife had given birth to their second child a girl and his son Abdul Aziz was gone. He was in China hurried. His mother had come for a visit and arranged for the trip back. Abdul rahman's helped tricked. He didn't even get to say goodbye. It's like his in-laws waited until he couldn't interfere and then sent his kid away.

3 (24m 24s):
He says he never would have let abdul-aziz go to China you and your wife fight about it. And we did you were you upset or angry? Like what was your physical

1 (24m 36s):
reaction? No - we'll look. But I'd argue or fight with her because she was also on the pressure and shot one in advance such you got me and another side of her family freshman her so I also want to make it easy for her

3 (24m 56s):
Purina said she wanted to go back with the baby just for a short trip make her parents happy then she'd come back with Abdul Aziz after Ramen wasn't crazy about the idea, but he agreed drove them to the airport.

1 (25m 9s):
It was hard feeling but I feel I couldn't do anything else.

3 (25m 14s):
And so they flew away to go to a place where only fragments of information ever make it out. The plan was that perrito would contact abdelrahman on WeChat once they'd arrived in Salt Lake it was safe, but he didn't hear from them. He called her parents again. And again, they never picked up he started to panic but this isn't it. Entirely abnormal because of how difficult it is for uyghurs to communicate with their families and change on he was hoping that that was all it was after two months at this. He says a distant relative who is visiting his temple on business contacted him and said, let's have lunch they met he had news.

3 (25m 56s):
It wasn't good police arrested purita, as soon as she and the baby arrived in China. She was interrogated and beaten the cousin said she was in prison serving a ten year sentence. He thought it was because she lived in Turkey human rights observers say they've seen several cases where uyghurs in sinkiang have been punished for communicating with people in turkey or other predominantly Muslim countries. It's not illegal per se but it can get you in trouble with the government.

1 (26m 25s):
It's just so that you can endure. So student it like you burn inside and something has eating you from inside eating you from the inside. Yeah, because you have a lot of pain but you cannot do anything Colombo

3 (26m 44s):
their children are with their grandparents his in-laws. So at least they're safe, but he can't get his wife out of prison. He can't even call home or try to get more information without endangering his family because he's living in Turkey anyone in ching chong who? To call from him could immediately get flagged by the government. They could be interrogated or even sent to a re-education camp and his family knows this by this point. Most of them have deleted him from their contacts. So he waits there's nothing he can do he starts putting on weight. He sleeps late. He's

2 (27m 17s):
stuck.

3 (27m 26s):
For everything he's gone through Abdul rahman's still pretty young. He's 30. I've known him for about six months now and he does things all the time that remind me that he's a dad. He never got to be a dad. He always brings food when we meet in tears his snacks, like steamed buns with slam dipped in a spicy vinegar sauce. Once after an interview, we ran into his friend with her kid at a weaker run Cafe. I'll never forget the look on his face while he tossed the toddler up and down in front of the deli cases. This pure uncomplicated Joy, but when I asked him how he feels about all this, he's told me men don't have feelings which obviously isn't true.

3 (28m 10s):
Back in December of 2018 when abdelrahman is living in Istanbul hearing nothing from his family things in sinkiang. We're getting worse more and more uyghurs were sent to re-education centers and later required to do low-wage factory work human rights observers say this campaign imprisoned about 10% if we grow adults and change on but abdelrahman had no idea what was happening to his family. That's when Tick Tock came into his life a friend showed it to him. He was like you've got to see

1 (28m 39s):
this That way tippie boteler original one. He said I just fun a relative of a man. I know from my hometown I ask you how did you find people? How does it work? He told me you can write the name of your town.

3 (28m 59s):
Abdelrahman can't frighten Mandarin. So as find types out the name of his hometown for him. It's called oxu. It's an Agricultural Center in the west hugging the mountains that form the Border between China Kyrgyzstan and Kazakhstan suddenly hundreds of users are popping up on a screen. He goes through video after video. He sees all of these places that he recognizes the woods and the rivers and the families hanging out in front of their houses and he can tell things have definitely changed the cotton fields. Look the same the houses are familiar, but to abdelrahman oxy looks like a city under occupation

1 (29m 36s):
apple is just a little Then select the video is Chinese occupier put on that and the interviews are it looks like a happy moment to them. But what the video shown is, for example, a Chinese guy in we were housed. There are only women in the house and elder lady in my mom's age. He threw the Chinese man first try to dance with her like almost forcing her to dance and try to hug her and the Chinese guys. She looks happy and they thought they are doing something good, but it's for in our tradition is attack.

1 (30m 16s):
Like I can see the lady she is cannot do anything against it, but she don't want to dance with the guy

3 (30m 24s):
in another video something else seems off. It's a group of people clearing ice off of an irrigation ditch with picks and shovels. It's winter you can tell by the trees in the coats. They're

1 (30m 34s):
wearing Jonas. It's all on the table stroke stroke.

3 (30m 40s):
Roman knows this ditch. It's just a few minutes from his family's house and to him. It's clear. They're being forced to work. We never clear ice from the ditch until spring time. He tells me there's no need it. Just Freezes Over Again. This watching does not seem to be good for abdirahman, but he can't stop Tick-Tock is like this tiny flashlight into the big black box. That ching chong has become for a week. He stayed in his apartment just searching what he was really hoping for was to see someone he recognized and he traces of his kids. His wife's parents his parents. He hadn't been able to speak to them for several years at this point. He watched at the kitchen table watched on the couch at night.

3 (31m 22s):
He'd lie awake scrolling. On January 4th 2019. He was in bed and like usual scrolling through Tic Tac. It's around 2 a.m. And Abdul rahman's use this video. It's a little boy with big cheeks expressive eyes. He's in a school answering questions in Mandarin Chinese from a teacher off camera behind him kids are Milling about in winter

1 (31m 45s):
coats, you know, we have a leather jacket. Winter jacket

3 (31m 59s):
the teacher asks the kid a bunch of questions. What's the name of the Fatherland? The People's Republic of China? What's on the Fatherland flag 5 stars on a red flag? Where's your water? Bottle water? Bottle is here. Where do we put the food? We can't finish in the trash. Abdelrahman doesn't speak Mandarin, but there is one word. That stands out to him Abdul Aziz. What's your name? The teacher asks, I'm called Abdul Aziz. He says how old are you? I'm for that's how old Abdul rahman's son should be now. The video is just 15 seconds long one of a hundred that is watch that day and he can't be sure. It's his son abilities.

3 (32m 41s):
But Abdul rahman's simultaneously gets this Rush of Love believing that it's his son and this intense fear that it's really him because his kids are supposed to be living with their grandparents while he figures. A way to get them home and it looks like they aren't

1 (32m 57s):
applicable as soon as I said I can feel it's a camp for children telekinesis

3 (33m 2s):
column. It looks like Abdul Aziz is in a boarding school. One of the ones set up by the Chinese government to take care of about 500,000 kids many of whose parents have been detained and re-education camps except for short visits home. The kids are generally kept away from their family. Taught Mandarin not weaker

1 (33m 22s):
humble. America can do gonna get another study. Yeah. I feel that. My son is becoming more Chinese every day. But now I'm the only member Last I understood the video. I became worried about his future. How is the regime will teach them and make him an enemy of we were in the future especially make him an enemy of people like me

3 (33m 49s):
that seems to be exactly the point of these goals. They place these kids in a setting where they're removed from their families their language their religion their weaker nests As One internal government document claims. The goal of this Crackdown is to quote break their image Rick their Roots like their connections and break their Origins. The government is their family now from this moment when alderamin saw his son in this video, all he wanted was to get him back. He was consumed by it. I should say there are lots of parents around the world in the same situation in the past year or so.

3 (34m 30s):
I've personally spoken to nine of them in three different countries. Only one was able to get her son out of China. Thanks to an influential family member and a Turkish passport still abdelrahman was convinced that he a guy who doesn't speak Mandarin doesn't have political connections can't even call home. He was going to get his son back.

1 (34m 57s):
What a dirty biscarrat coming up after Robin uses everything. He has to get his family back. That's in a minute. I'm Chicago public radio when our program continues. Support for This American Life comes from Capital One with the Capital One Quicksilver card you earn unlimited 1.5% cash back on every purchase everywhere with Quicksilver. There's no limit to how much cash back.

2 (35m 23s):
You can earn Capital One what's in your wallet

1 (35m 27s):
credit approval required Capital One Bank USA na? This american guy from our class. Today's program Black Box stories of people who don't have the information they need and want trying to figure out what's going on and what they should do. Next. We now continue with act one of our show right before the break. Maybe you heard. I'm Doraemon totally thought that he spotted his four-year-old son on a tick tock video decided to set out on a mission to retrieve him and the rest of his family reported early bruschetta and picks up with Abdul rahman's story.

3 (35m 59s):
The first thing he did was he went to the Press made it public this was risky because his family was still in China. His interviews were published all over the world in Turkish English Portuguese. He was on the BBC and in the New York Times. Yeah.

1 (36m 16s):
Well, I'm not done talking to the media attention was so intense in the beginning is confirmed that make me that makes me have more hope and trust couldn't they think okay something maybe Will happen but then I find out it will not happen to kill them to rule on which consist

3 (36m 37s):
with each of these interviews. It felt like he was screaming into the void trying to get China in the world to look at him and the response silence. He was no closer to getting his family back. Then he was when they left he tried more official routes. He went to the Chinese Embassy nothing as for the Turkish government for help wrote to the United Nations. He once told me about this plan to move to Canada as a refugee because he thought the government there would have more leverage mind you that would take years to come to fruition, but he truly believes that one day. His family will be together again. He has these pictures on his phone because there's no portrait of his family.

3 (37m 18s):
He's made some using passport photos of him and purita a baby picture. He has his daughter and a screenshot of that video of Abdul Aziz their photo shopped on the backgrounds the Cathedral of Notre Dame in Paris cherry blossoms in Japan. So why do you do that? Can you tell me about this?

1 (37m 38s):
Probably be number one again?

3 (37m 42s):
It's because we're a family He tells me last summer. Abdulrahman had some luck. He was scrolling through WeChat, and he found a childhood friend. He says they hatched a plan to buy a plane ticket for her to go back to their Hometown get eyes on the ground. But of course, even when she made it all the way there and was sending him videos of their old neighborhood. She still couldn't speak directly to what she was actually seeing the significance of love it. Everything's fine. She told him everything's new and better and sheep and the camera around the empty streets. Abdulrahman was kicked off we chat so we don't have the actual videos and we weren't able to reach his friend without risking her safety, but he says the way she spoke with super casual to avoid drawing attention.

1 (38m 33s):
The building is are not here anymore. Don't get surprised as they have been new restaurants here. If you come here, I will buy food for you and like basically Joe. And the third and then I asked her I answer her now. Why should I be a surprise? Okay, maybe one day we have chance to meet there.

3 (38m 53s):
She drove to the street. His parents lived on there were a lot of checkpoints eventually. She got there and found an empty lot. His family's house in the city had been demolished. They have another home Farm they could have moved to their but this is the point when Abdul rahman's started to worry that his parents had been taken to he hadn't been able to speak to them in four years every time he gets more information. It's like this the more he learns the worst thing seemed abdelrahman still watches Tick-Tock. It's like a nervous habit when he's bored and he's tired and interviews when it takes too long for our interpreter to translate a question.

3 (39m 36s):
He'll sort of lean back and pull his phone out from under the table eventually in January of this year the apps show. Loose another piece of information an old acquaintance route to him through tick-tocks direct messaging function the messages start off. Nonchalantly enough Hi, how are you? Brother? Abdulrahman asked him if he's seen his parents lately. How are they doing? The friend didn't have any information about his son or his wife, but he could tell abdelrahman that his family and oxu is gone. They're not staying at their Farm like he had hoped his elderly father his mother who has cancer. He gives them named after. Name, they're gone. They're gone to and abdelrahman can't even be sure what this means.

3 (40m 19s):
They could have been forced off their land but living elsewhere. They could be detained in a re-education center. They could be in prison from thousands of miles away. It's almost impossible to find out as he's telling me this it's the day after he got these messages and abdelrahman is getting really worked up. He's talking super super fast like a dam has burst and all of these emotions from the past three years or spilling over.

1 (40m 43s):
Then another mural the most abundant in little apartment with my parents my parents brothers sisters. All of them are gone when the top one is called member jnm to be here some biggest yourself. They have taken the have taken everything from me purple teal and family, son. Wife everything I got in my life. They have taken from me. I am I'm ready to do anything. I can to take revenge.

1 (41m 24s):
first occurrence of them and kind of translation Those official in Chinese Embassy, I will smash her car's master of their buildings until they get they arrest me or they put my parents free. What kind of else too. I got enough is just speaking. Empty words.

3 (41m 48s):
Throw me in jail. Keep me outside. It's no different. He says they've killed my soul. I have nothing to live for anymore. We later called the local police station in his hometown and confirmed that no one is at his family's address, even though 13 people used to live there. They knew that abdulrahman was looking for his family and put a week or speaker on the line to talk to him. Maybe they've left. Maybe they did something wrong the speaker said but she refused to say if they were accused of a

1 (42m 16s):
crime.

3 (42m 22s):
Two days after he gets the news about his family. He found something new to fixate on the mayor of Istanbul. He thought that if he could convince this guy to help him, he might be able to put in a word to Turkish diplomats who helped people detained overseas. The mayor was scheduled to speak at an afternoon event a dinner in honor of the different cultures of the turkic world like the Turks that was backs in the uyghurs. I met up with him to go there. He's brought bags of weaker breads. Fried noodles for the event because an activist told him it might help him get a chance to meet with the mayor face to face the chances of this resulting in anything or slim. Honestly, it's a Hail Mary but as down is abdulrahman was the day before he's up now buzzing with excitement in the car on the way

1 (43m 7s):
over I'll miss you a lot miss this moment.

3 (43m 13s):
I'm going there as a human being and asking them to do their Duty as a human being he tells me The event is happening outside a museum under a big tent I'll do Ramen pulls his bags of food out of the car and we wait for the mayor a few minutes turns into a few hours. He falls back into his phone flipping through Tick-Tock videos, like usual. He looks tired. Finally just as the program is about to begin the mayor's sweeps in with bodyguards in tow. He's introduced ushered onto the stage and he speaks for about 15 minutes

1 (43m 45s):
your humble hot in that this is an that much. I'm shaking their booty video and then the mayor

3 (43m 56s):
moves to leave abdulrahman realizes that this is his chance he needs to go now but a group of admirers descends on the mayor shaking his hand giving him gifts abdulrahman weights on the edge hanging back until he sees an opening and makes his move I stand back with our interpreter to watch I'm going up.

1 (44m 19s):
like the one green sweater in a sea of He likes him suppose. You just want to shake his hand. He

3 (44m 29s):
disappears into the crowd and Justice the mayor is leaving the tent he's able to wiggle through to get close enough to greet him. They shake hands. It's just enough time to say hello not to explain a story or to ask for help to find his son and the mayor of Saint it's the same as every other time. He's reached out to the Turkish government for help. Nothing changes. We sent requests for comment to China's Ministry of Foreign Affairs Ministry of public security and Ministry of Education asking for information about Abdul rahman's family.

3 (45m 10s):
No response. We tried the office of the vice president of the sinkiang autonomous region and the local propaganda Department in that case. Someone did pick up told us their fax machine was broken. And that no other fax machines were available. So we summarized the questions over the phone the person on the other end called its sheer nonsense and told us to go online and read the news the Chinese Embassy in Washington DC basically said the same thing I asked for information on Abdul rahman's family and on these cases in general they responded with a list of YouTube links videos posted by China's State media service defending the re-education camp program and claiming that people who say their He's have been imprisoned are lying.

3 (45m 54s):
I would suggest you check some of the rumors being exposed. They wrote. Thanks for reaching out to the Embassy. We also can't reach purita. We confirmed as many details as we could about purita and Abdul rahman's life together with a friend of theirs. It took more than a year before abdul-rahman finally saw a small glimmer of success weirdly. It was the pandemic that did it this winter news of the coronavirus outbreak in Wuhan started to filter out of China the videos Abdul rahman's started to see on Tick-Tock were of empty streets people stuck at home without much to eat.

3 (46m 34s):
Some would set their videos to music pulled from zombie movies. Abdulrahman began to worry about changing social distancing is happening there but the uyghurs in prison don't have that option

1 (46m 46s):
whoo-hoo turquoise somebody get in fact amounts. Prisoners or somebody in Camp then all of them will be infected. So I'm worried

3 (46m 57s):
and it's not just the people in prison people detained in re-education centers can also get infected or the kids who have been separated from their parents and placed in government schools. So this winter a group of parents in Istanbul started planning a trip to the Chinese Embassy to show up in person and demand access to their children. Before anything is finalized the parents started to get phone calls from the consulate. Abdulrahman got one too. My men will consider

1 (47m 25s):
Jamaican same as last Friday. I came up from the Friday prayer, but partially nauseated. I was driving and the transporting something too. He said I have a good news for you.

3 (47m 51s):
The caller was a translator for the Chinese Consulate. He had information about Abdul rahman's children. He said your kids are with their Uncle the caller told him not in a boarding school. They're safe on those medications, but I

1 (48m 3s):
would have thought okay, which uncle is that and the guys that I don't know. So I said, okay, let me let's meet I will where are you

3 (48m 13s):
Christmas bottom of the sole source of your cameras on board?

1 (48m 16s):
Did it again condos autonomous or semi-autonomous himself? And he said no, we don't have to meet this is only news. I have

3 (48m 29s):
he got this call in March. He still has no idea if it was true or not this drop of information an unprovable bit of news that he desperately wants to hear. It could be a lie designed to placate keep him quiet. He knows this but Abdul Rahman insists that even if if it's not true, it's still good news with this phone call means to him is that now someone in the government has finally acknowledged his jumping and screaming and waving his hands someone somewhere might actually be responding.

1 (49m 0s):
Tom and B'Elanna use this is good news. But until I see them directly I will fight for the

3 (49m 6s):
case until you see a video or until you see them here in

1 (49m 10s):
Turkey, you know, I guess until I get them to Turkey after not Mickey Rooney bag and it's about I made my son and I take you start take care of them as a father. I will not stop for me. It's a good news. It gives me

3 (49m 28s):
hope After Amon has renewed hope that they'll be together again because this time after four years of trying to find his family. The black box has spoken back. But even this tiny Victory is short-lived a month later. Abdirahman calls me from the road. He's driving balancing the phone on the steering wheel

1 (49m 47s):
as well as a

3 (49m 50s):
contact from Tick-Tock has been sending him information about oxu wrote to him to tell him that local government officials went on the village loudspeaker to make a public announcement. Announcement saying anyone with information about the Totti family Abdul rahman's family is forbidden to share it.

1 (50m 14s):
Look we are now living in 21st century and if people know their kids or their dogs, they will have right to look for them in my case. Of course I have right to get information about my family as a father as the Sun but there are even forbidding me to get any information about my family

3 (50m 34s):
members. His fear is that they are going to disappear there would be no charges. No prison sentence. No anticipated date of their release no communication with the outside world and he'll never know what became of them and what frustrates him is that right? Now people he knows are starting to hear news of what's happening to their families, but they've moved out of re-education centers and into low-wage factory work or formal prison sentences. They're getting answers, but Abdul rahman's still knows nothing. For years, he's been fighting for information. You may never get it.

1 (51m 18s):
Davis Karen in Istanbul What am I a to state of emergency? So today is about people trying to find their way in situations where they don't have much information or any rate the information. They need of course that situation the whole world is in right now, but the spread of covid-19 is we try to make sense of how to Did you deal with it as a society couple weeks ago my coworker Miki Nick talked to one emergency medical worker in Brooklyn Anthony homage era.

1 (52m 12s):
He's vice president of local 3621 of the EMS officers Union in New York City EMS Emergency Medical Services and support of the fire department. Even a few weeks ago. They were totally overwhelmed and then he was not responding to an endless stream of 9-1-1 calls and make a check back in with him recently series doing said that even though the number of infections in the city has finally started to slow. His crew is still an unchartered territory. And a lot of the calls are getting our for cardiac arrest. Apparently the virus in addition to attacking the lungs can also put stress on the heart and sometimes directly infect the heart some days. The number of cardiac arrest calls coming into New York City's 9-1-1 system has been huge over 300.

1 (52m 53s):
It's about four times higher than before. The pandemic most is people are dying at home. Here's Mickey talking to Anthony and then to one of his colleagues

3 (53m 2s):
Anthony. How are you doing?

2 (53m 5s):
I'm okay. I'm okay. I guess you know, it's still crazy this past Sunday. I did 13 cardiac arrest in a 16 hour shift. She's 13 13

1 (53m 18s):
13 Cardiac Arrest. What does that they look like for you?

2 (53m 22s):
So, you know I wake up I put the uniform on I'm sitting there trying to mentally get myself geared up for another day of this. I get a Red Bull, you know, if you're going to be in the middle of hell you might as well be alert and you know, I'm going to work in my brain is sitting there. It's weird because my brain is sitting there going. Okay, you know, I got to get ready because I know it's coming then it starts coming 6:30 in the morning it started coming and Elderly gentleman fever cough symptoms we try and worker working mop unsuccessful. I told the family. I'm sorry. There's nothing more we can do and then I go back out into the truck.

2 (54m 4s):
I hit the button. I get called for the other cardiac arrest and I go another family the patient's family saying that he had a cough for five days and was weak with chills. We try and work him up or unsuccessful. We pronounce I hit the button. I get hit again for another Cardiac Arrest. I go this particular patient we weren't able to work up because he had rigor mortis so he had been dead for a little while, but the family States. Oh, you know, he had fever cough symptoms. So we would like okay, you know, I'm sorry for your loss. There's another one I have to say, I'm sorry for your loss. Mm-hmm. And then the next call and this is going to sound weird to the everyday person.

2 (54m 48s):
But um, The next hole was a suicide. There's no fever cough. So it's like oh look a regular call. So to speak, you know as opposed to having to get all crazy with the gowns and gloves and the mask and the it's such a morbid scene, but there's three of us are like, well, this is one patient. We don't have to worry about getting this virus from and it's like, you know, just feel relief in the middle of this tragic death. I mean, this is somebody who felt hopeless enough to go and commit suicide, you know, We still have the empathy form and what not. But hey, you know, we're going to get through this one without getting infected by anything.

2 (55m 29s):
And then I hit the button the button shows that I'm available and I'm on my way to another cardiac

1 (55m 34s):
arrest, you know, I've never had a panic or anxiety attack and I feel like one is going to come on really soon. This is another paramedic in New York City. I'm calling Cassandra. She didn't want me to use her real name because she didn't get permission from the fire department to talk to me. I've been checking in with her regularly over the past few weeks and she's processing her days differently than Anthony. Because she's not a lieutenant. She spends her entire 12-hour day in an

3 (55m 58s):
ambulance. I talked to her recently after she'd finished one of her

1 (56m 2s):
shifts. She gotten home at 3:00 a.m. And take a bubble bath to try and calm down but it didn't work how much more worse than this can it get you know, like we're at worst to me. This is my worst. Like I did 37 Cardiac Arrest last week. I told somebody I'm sorry for your loss 37 times last week 37 times. I'm sorry for your loss. Yeah, and I yeah, I I don't think I've ever done that in a year like 37 Cardiac

3 (56m 27s):
Arrest. That's insane to me.

1 (56m 30s):
Like I don't even know how to explain it like my soul hurts. I'm not used to seeing all this death all at once. Like I'm I'm I'm a person like I'm very

3 (56m 38s):
strong-headed. So it's just like if I see that is like, okay this happened I process it quick and I'm like I deliver my message to the family and it's like damn that was messed up and I move on you know, it's not like it sticks with me for a while. And right now it's that's not the case. You know, I'm I'm just I'm

1 (56m 54s):
holding each and Every one of them in because I don't have time to just put it away. I was wondering are there any particular calls that stick with you? Right now? There was actually one Cardiac Arrest that I had last week that wasn't covid related. But the guy was a hundred and seven years old and he was fighting he really wanted to live and I was shocked at that and that kind of made me a little bit happy because you know, I thought we were gonna get him back, you know, we didn't we pronounce them at the end, but he was fighting he really wanted to let what do you fear most right now? Like what's the fear that's on your mind? Morning, I'm a ticking bomb. If I don't start, you know dealing with stuff. I'm gonna blow up on my partner or

3 (57m 33s):
somebody and God forbid that's on a patient because I don't want to be mean to some of the just lost a loved one. You know what I mean? I don't know how I'm gonna react to not dealing with all this death, you know constantly. Do you have a plan? I don't

1 (57m 48s):
have time to time.

3 (57m 56s):
Anthony when I talked to you

1 (57m 58s):
last, you know, it was very hard having to deliver to news to people and not being able to comfort them having to keep a distance. And so, you know I talk to you about a little over two weeks ago and I'm wondering has I gotten easier for you. Have you

2 (58m 16s):
readjusted? No, it's not easier. And to be honest with you. I don't want it to be easy. If it is easy for me that mean maybe I'm suffering from a little emotional fatigue and burning out, you know, if I still feel sadness that's a good thing. I mean it sucks but it's a good thing. It means I'm still feeling you know, I in my head. I tried I try to remember that the sun does come out the next day and I know that sounds corny, but it's it's awfully cloudy at the moment. Yeah. But the thing that's hard about this is as a medic you are eternally hopeful in the face of fighting death every day because even if you didn't get them this time, you know that the next time you will write but this virus out here this pandemic, we're not getting them next time

3 (59m 16s):
right now about 15% of the Emergency Medical Service workers for

1 (59m 19s):
the New York fire department. Out on sick leave at least three are in the ICU on ventilators.

3 (59m 24s):
And one long time

1 (59m 25s):
worker a Watch Commander in downtown Brooklyn named Craig Hodge died earlier this week from covid Anthony took this news hard. He says Greg is the one who trained him when he first came on the job. Nikki Meek is one of the producers of our show just a program note after that story if you or somebody, you know might need help the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline is available 24/7 at one eight hundred two seven three talk. That's 1-800-273-8255. By the way, the EMS unions in New York City have been in a dispute with the city government starting pay for an EMT in New York is roughly $35,000 paramedic start at $48,000.

1 (1h 0m 12s):
When the pandemic started they ask for hazard pay since they were putting their lives on the line in a way that was more than usual and also for better benefits for their families if they should die on the job. They've got nowhere with this York City Mayor Bill de Blasio said he will go get into it, but not until the crisis is

3 (1h 0m 28s):
over excess consumes you You he says oh no, what have I done? Don't lose what moves you go here. Call me when this

1 (1h 0m 48s):
is what program has produced a by Robin semyon people put a show together. They includes being marooned me a manual berries. Are we chasing Shiva shankara? Leave it to kornfeld nor Guild name engraved. Nikki Meeks. Don't Nelson Catherine. Raimondo. Been feeling. Naughty Raymond Christopher Street Allah and Matt tears. Managing editors die and will and Sarah abdirahman our executive editor David kestenbaum interpreters who helped us with our story in act 1 Summers on sayyidi and Nasir Siddiki. Mr. Perales podcast. Where should we begin that we talked about the top of the show is now available on Spotify and any other platform where you get your podcast special. Thanks today to Darren beiler maxval cos David Brophy souvenir or mayor who cater soon who's on Weger and Kayla gabler.

1 (1h 1m 31s):
I website This American Life dot-org This American Life is delivered to Public Radio. Nations by PRX the public radio exchange for This American Life comes from Life way Foods bleeding u.s. Supplier of keeper an ancient food from the Caucasus Mountains. It's provided microbiome support for over 2,000 years Lifeway Foods. Love your guts more and life. Wait Foods.com. Thanks as always to our programs co-founder. Mr. Troy mallick to you, you know while in lock down these last few weeks have been working on his relationship his wife as an old Al Green record that they like to snuggle to

3 (1h 2m 4s):
it's an exhilarating. It's a relationship

1 (1h 2m 6s):
accelerator and Ira Glass back next week with more stories of this American writer. Next week on the podcast At This American Life kindness or whether it's annoying to hear just put it in the in your pocket there Jonathan Goldstein tries to convince his uncle and his father to get into the same room and have a conversation the first time in decades or member hallouwe. We had with the dye hair dryer. So manicurist.

1 (1h 2m 46s):
She was ahead diet manicurist now with the out the Congress next week on the podcast or no go public radio station.