2 (1s):
Support for This American Life comes from Capital One where you can open a savings account in about five minutes and earned five times the national average. Just imagine five times more savings toward that overdue home edition, maybe even an addition on that addition. This is banking reimagined. What's in your wallet Capital One na member FDIC and you're Thomas normally lives in st. Paul but is one of those doctors and nurses who flew to New York to help with flood of covid patients who filled in New York hospitals. He's actually the hospital at Columbia University where he went to medical school of quarter century ago and night after a 12-hour shifts. He sleeps in his old dormitory literally in the dorm room.

2 (41s):
He had when he was 23 the hospital scratched out all kinds of extra space for covid patients converting 24 operating rooms into intensive care units, but the strangest thing to him normally there'd be family. All over the place, but the families are not able to come close to the hospital. They can't even come in the lobby. Let alone get to see the people they love and the other thing is just the reality that most of these people are going to die in these places Malone.

1 (1m 11s):
Most of them are unconscious

2 (1m 12s):
and medically induced Comas because it's easier to survive on a ventilator that way because they're in conscious. It means that the gap between these covid patients and their families is even more profound because I don't talk on the phone or FaceTime or anything. So Andrew suggested the nurses that maybe they should take notes each day little things you notice about each patient share with the families of the patient dies. ask him to read if you sure this one's from a nurse named Sandy and she wrote a this is one say the name. The patient is mostly sleeping. She looks peaceful. Also, I really like her dark green fingernail polish.

2 (1m 53s):
I would love to know the name of the color. Here's another one. I've been partying the patient's hair to the side. I don't know if that's how he wears it. But I think it looks good that way also yesterday. He got to shave and now he looks so young. Here's one more. The patient looks so peaceful. He's sleeping in calm. Everyone is jealous of a salt-and-pepper hair. He looks like George Clooney right now. A doctor a few of the nurses who are writing these notes and they said that because the patients are unconscious their interactions are pretty basic.

2 (2m 33s):
So figuring out what to write can be tricky. Dr. Thomas. Is that for sure. Yeah. So so people end up focusing on you know, what you can see which is embellishments like earrings and hairstyles and fingernail polish and also just trying to emphasize that the people are in our comfortable that they're sleeping. They're not in there. Not in pain, that's something we really want to fit almost every all the nurses comment on that. It seems someone almost everyone and what you hope about how the families will take this My Hope Is that the families will know that their loved ones were being seen as people and treated as people and that they weren't alone as this happen To The Gather details about the people laying in front of them knowing that there's something like an 80% chance at their own event later with covid.

2 (3m 35s):
They won't live. Those are the numbers in New York. Those two things are so different in size writing down a few tiny observations measured against the enormity of death what that means. But sometimes I think that's all you can do and today in our program. We have two stories where Ordinary People rise to this exact task. They will get death standing there gigantic horrifying and they say something. And then these stories truly amazing things happen WBZ Chicago This American Life. I'm Ira Glass stay with us.

1 (4m 21s):
That's one

2 (4m 22s):
really long distance. Remember that tsunami that hit Japan March 2011 giant black waves more than 30 feet tall hit Japan a

1 (4m 32s):
guy in a little town called o2g shot this video you can And yelling all the houses are washing away. Did you been there for a hundred years and 30 minutes? It was gone. I'm just totally flattened the

2 (4m 46s):
Toonami and the earthquake that went with it killed six times more people than died in 9/11 over 19,000 people another 2,500 are still missing in the aftermath, of course family struggled to figure out how they were going to move forward without the people they loved and in that town of about Suchi it led to this new. No ritual is not exactly the right word for this but it's something close to that this thing that people invented to stay connected to the Dead one of our producers making make has family in Japan and she grew up going back and forth between there and here and she watched this documentary about this thing. People are doing it with sushi on the Japanese News Channel NHK and got permission for us to play you some eggs herbs. Here's Mickey of all the areas in Japan affected by the tsunami but Su Qi has one of the highest numbers of missing people 421 Today, it's still partly in Ruins and partly a construction site as they try to rebuild the town on higher ground.

1 (5m 43s):
But a year before the tsunami happened this guy named ataru Sasaki. He was already dealing with a loss. His cousin had just died and Atari was having a hard time figuring out how to talk about it.

2 (5m 55s):
So he did something pretty ingenious. He went out and bought an old fashioned phone booth and stuck it in his garden. It looks like an old English style one. It's square and painted white. White and has his glass window panes inside is a black rotary phone resting on a wood shelf this phone connected to know where it didn't work at all but that didn't matter to eat out who he just needed a place where he felt like he could talk to his cousin the place where he could are out his grief and so putting an old phone booth in his garden which sits on this little Windy Hill overlooking the Pacific

1 (6m 27s):
Ocean. It felt like a perfect solution Stephen no more you Come doing it's not covid main because my thoughts could not be relayed over a regular phone line. I wanted them to be carried on the Wind Through the cousin thing. So I named it the wind telephone Kaze no - mwah. The idea of keeping a relationship with a dad is not such a strange one in Japan

2 (6m 55s):
the line between our world and their world is thin lots of families. Keep a Buddhist Altar for their dead relatives in the living room. My uncle has one for our family there are photos on a little platform and every day he leaves fresh fruit and rice for them life incense and rings a bell. So way to stay in touch to let them know that there's still a big part of our family. So after the tsunami and earthquake happened word got out about ataru special wind telephone that he was using it as another way to stay connected to the dad soon people started showing up randomly on this property and walking right into the phone booth. This has been going on for five years. Now, he's how to estimates that thousands of people from all over Japan have come to use his phone a TV station asked you to do and the people who come to use his phone if they could videotape their calls from a distance and put an audio recorder.

2 (7m 46s):
In the phone booth they wanted to get a sense of how people are still grieving. I watch their documentary after the fifth anniversary of the tsunami back in March that whole week all the news programs in Japan were airing Memorial programs, but I found the calls in this particular program remarkable and moving for just how simple they were one woman from otsuchi

1 (8m 8s):
names sachiko. Okawa showed up one afternoon. She 71 years old and lost her husband in the tsunami

2 (8m 15s):
she regularly. Things are too young grandsons to the phone booth and you can tell by how casually they talked to

1 (8m 21s):
him on the phone. They squish into the phone booth with their grandma wearing matching blue and black striped shirts sachiko starts the call by picking up the receiver and saying hello. I was watching her oldest grandson quickly jumps in hi Grandpa. Well janky, how are you? I'll be in fourth grade. Next semester wasn't that fast. I know what the I didn't use it Dana my younger brother. He'll be In second grade next year since its you go corrects him. She says no Dana will be in second grade this year holding not next cold the last yeah. Yeah this

2 (8m 55s):
year a lot of calls were just like this straightforward updates about life the kind of quick

1 (9m 1s):
highlights reel you might give to any family member you're catching up with on the phone the boy. He then tells his grandpa jinkies grandma's fine, too. So that guy go I'm giving the phone to China now. Dinah little brother grabs the phone knows because I didn't know what that one is grandpa. I finished all my homework. Sachiko urges him to keep talking as of now getting so got on everyone is doing fine. Then he hangs up. They all say goodbye as they're walking out of the booth.

1 (9m 41s):
Dinosaurs may be Rambo will say he heard us.

2 (9m 53s):
And another call a woman in a puffy winter jacket with a fur-lined hood shows up at the booth by

1 (9m 58s):
herself. Her name is Kim guadagno, and she 66. She used to live in a sushi. But she moved away after she lost her house and her husband and it's tsunami her husband was a deep-sea fishermen. His name was Miyagi and they used to talk and drink Sake together at night. Now Kiku a lives alone about 50 miles away. But sometimes Kiku a finds herself driving back to Su Qi and to this booth. I watched her do this thing that a lot of colors seem to do. You hear Kiko actually dialing the rotary phone saying some numbers to herself four to five seven four four.

1 (10m 40s):
She's dialing the phone number for her old house in otsuchi the last place she knew to reach her husband. Then kick away just stands in the booth and silence holding the phone to her ear. Sometimes she fidgets around until it's her head up and concentrate from the ceiling the same way I do when I want to cry, but I'm trying hard not to. It doesn't work. Kiku a brushes in tears off her face Eventually she hangs out. She lingers in the booth a little longer hands clasp together in front of her staring at the phone booth floor.

1 (11m 25s):
She walks out. One

2 (11m 38s):
pattern that the owner of the phone booth ataru has noticed over the years.

1 (11m 42s):
Is that more men than women come to you that not surprisingly. This is not a

2 (11m 46s):
demographic that's known for sharing their

1 (11m 47s):
feelings. Especially the older Farmers.

2 (11m 50s):
They already have a reputation for not talking much.

1 (11m 54s):
In one of the phone calls recorded in Winter a man with gray hair and a little towel hanging around his neck walks into the garden. This kind of towel is part of the uniform of Japanese Farmers. They use them to wipe away sweat and clean their hands this man opens the telephone booth door and under his breath. You hear him say, huh? So this is the wind telephone. This appears to be his very first visit to the phone booth. He lost his oldest son in the tsunami. His son's name was nobuyuki. He also lost his house and

2 (12m 25s):
had to move into temporary housing with his

1 (12m 27s):
wife and recently she got sick and also passed away. He calls her okaasan. It means mom in Japanese. It's what everyone in the family calls the female head of the house. Even the husband.

2 (12m 41s):
It's a very intimate loving term.

1 (12m 49s):
What's wrong with you? Hello. Freaky, nobuyuki. Oh my God is Mom with you? You want each other to move? Sorry to ask this, but take care of her and your grandma and grandpa to Mom. What's a good morning? I'll come again. Okay, Mom.

1 (13m 29s):
I'll be back Johnny. Bye. He uses a towel around his neck to wipe his eyes.

2 (13m 50s):
One of the things that makes these calls so poignant to me is

1 (13m 53s):
all the understated

2 (13m 54s):
ways that people are actually saying I love you and I miss you. I never say something so direct like that in Japanese. It's just not done. I've only seen people say in the soap operas ice to do even saying that right now feels weird. I've never said that to my mom or my

1 (14m 16s):
Take this call. It's winter the phone booth is surrounded by snow. What should we say? Hello Mom. Where are you? He's an older man wearing a baseball

2 (14m 32s):
cap. He also calls his wife mom his wife daughter and mother they all went missing in that tsunami

1 (14m 41s):
coming because you think it's so cold, but you're not getting cold. Are you I don't know making me to her

2 (14m 48s):
grandma and her daughter mute key with you two.

1 (14m 51s):
Hi, I'm gonna have to call you come back soon. Not human ketamine the method of gotta be down soon. Everyone is waiting for you. Yeah, okay. Hiya, Mick heading - to go down soon. Hurry home. Okay, we're going to those does it gonna build a house in the same place? Not another individual keep something anything going to just be alive somewhere anywhere? From Zoo, I'm so lonely.

1 (15m 43s):
He never says I love you directly real feelings are communicated through

2 (15m 47s):
small gestures, especially once a concern

1 (15m 50s):
like when he asks his wife, are you staying warm are you eating and then promising although the house for us.

2 (15m 59s):
These are total heartfelt Declarations of love. Brother man. The phone booth is a place where they can finally say they're complicated feelings out loud. They can voice their regrets anyone who's had someone close to them die nose is feeling like I've kept having the same one way conversation with my dad in my head ever since he passed away last year. I just keep telling him all the situations where I wish I had been Kinder more patient. One call I watched was from a young father with rectangle glasses and a long black

1 (16m 36s):
jacket. He lost his family both parents his wife and he was mean a and a one-year-old son named you say both are dad causal Mom. That's all Nina Isa since I can move it, it's already been five years since the disaster most critical voice reaches you please listen.

1 (17m 16s):
None of them. Are you going down there? Sometimes? I don't know what I'm living for. Whatever you say. Please let me hear you. Call me papa papa. addressing a built a new house Thank god dad mom. When is anything I mean anything without all of you? It's meaningless.

1 (17m 58s):
And you don't spoil. I want to hear your reply, but I can't hear anything. Hangs up the phone takes off his glasses and covers his eyes with his hands. I'm sorry. I'm so sorry. I couldn't save you.

1 (19m 6s):
There's a couple phrases. I heard collars tell the dead again. And again,

2 (19m 10s):
she invites you and I don't worry about us and come back to do which basically means I'm doing my very best. I'm enduring in Japan goong-bok to do it's a catch-all slogan for slogging through life's many challenges. No matter how tiny you big from trying to pass a test at school to grieving you hear it all the time for everything in the phone booth. Khambatta do and sheepish. These are key phrases to reassure the dead but the living the people left behind they're doing okay, even if they're not people don't want to worry or burden their loved ones even dead loved ones because most Japanese are Buddhists and generally believed that when someone dies their not suddenly relieved of all their Earthly concerns are not automatically in heaven happy and carefree many people believe that if the Dead Sea a family member suffering, they can't let go of their Earthly life.

2 (20m 3s):
They hesitate to cross to the other. ER side and end up stuck in a No Man's Land. I heard these reassurance has in a call from a 15 year old kid named ran close a key to his dad. He arrived at the phone booth after spending four hours on public transportation by himself run lives in a city much farther north that wasn't affected as much by the tsunami but his dad was a truck driver who drove all over Japan and in the last minute schedule change, he got sent on a route that took him along the coast when the tsunami hit he's been missing ever since Run went into the phone booth wearing a red backpack

1 (20m 37s):
and what he does in his calm you hear him signaling to his dad, but it's okay. He should keep moving on into the afterworld. What's up, Dad? You're doing double click the four of us are doing fine. We're going back to do freshen up to you. You don't need to worry about us. She invites you and I was hiking that are you doing? Okay? Take whatever. I do have one question. I want to ask you.

1 (21m 22s):
Why did you die? Why did it have to be you Dad? No, it's like yeah, why just me? I'll do it. I've always wondered why am I the only one who is different from everyone else? Anyways when you cook, so please be found quickly meet Scott get home. Where are you now? It's coming. They never found anything of you. So who I want to talk with you again?

1 (22m 3s):
I miss you. Run left the booth in late February. He came back with his entire family his mom younger brother and sister they all drove down to it with sushi together and when they got to the phone booth at first the kind of awkwardly hung out in front of it. So to break the ice Ren walks in and places the first call to their dad. He tells him I brought everyone with me today by when run walks out his family. Laughs they say, That was so fast run shoots back.

1 (22m 45s):
Yo, whatever he knows is it that you hope it was just a quick report to Dad, but I brought everyone with me today. Next up or runs a little

2 (22m 52s):
brother and sister who are 12 and 14 years

1 (22m 55s):
old. They go into the booth together and the sister is talking and laughing nervously. What am I supposed to say? What should I tell him? Don't leave me alone in here? The sister picks up the phone and let me just say

2 (23m 16s):
the mom told the film crew that this is a girl who has not said a single word about her dad to anyone since he went missing five years

1 (23m 23s):
ago. So she picks up the phone and starts to cry. She asked her brother again. What should I

2 (23m 36s):
talk to him about

1 (23m 38s):
her little brother's name is Riku and he tells her they what you wanted to tell him. She says this would make me laugh Riku Riku says attention. No, I'm not so then she finally start talking to her dad. The conversation is all over the place and she's crying so hard. She can barely talk. Those are my dad's the stereo is to say you're stinky. What happened to your promise to buy me a violin now?

1 (24m 20s):
I'll have to buy one myself. Her little brother who sticks closer he encourages her to keep going. He says what else so she tells her dad started tennis and Junior High School. I'm not in the top eight. I want to be in the top eight in our last tournament. Wasting it. Please cheer for me. Did you get everything done? I got hooked on this boy band The Johnny's when I was in my first year of Junior High. I'm still hooked. They will say goodbye. They come out of the booth together.

1 (25m 1s):
Now, it's our mom's turn her kids. Tell her he did - I did have a good trip Good Luck run the oldest he vows in waves to her. She walks in picks up the phone and let's add a big sigh. Where should I start to make things inequitable? I feel like we're still alive somewhere.

1 (25m 42s):
I'm sure you didn't we had so many things we want to do together. I love it, too. It's to do it over the phone. We always said we teach other are you alive? Yeah. I'm alive. It was our password between the two of us wasn't it stretched can't ask you that anymore. Because I'm going to come back.

1 (26m 23s):
You don't need a three or four of us together. You'll be waiting Jonah by after she comes out the family lingers outside the phone booth for a while.

2 (26m 38s):
This was literally the first time they'd all talked about their dad together since its tsunami happened five years

1 (26m 43s):
ago. You think the youngest Riku he sat quietly on the bench with his head in his hands the night before his dad disappeared.

2 (26m 51s):
He went to a public bath together

1 (26m 53s):
his mom and older siblings. Tell him weaker. You don't need to keep your feelings then go ahead and cry when you want to run the oldest gently teases him. He says, come on. Let's see can't stop crying. Mom says, yeah, but he held back until now okay because you held back you endured until now. The sister then hands we could her handkerchief. The mom says her kids.

2 (27m 30s):
We were all about to fall apart. We were so broken. We didn't think we could make it through and maybe that's why we never talked about Dad until now. The talking to him on the phone today it changed something. Mickey Meek is one of the producers of our program. Thanks for tomohiko. Yokoyama and NHK Sendai. He recorded all this and shared it with us today shows. Mostly a rerun. We checked this week and win phone

1 (28m 1s):
is still in

2 (28m 1s):
operation though. Not many visitors right now because of covid Japanese government is asking people to stay home coming up two brothers in their eighties have a last chance to talk to each other before they die and neither wants to take it. That's a no. It is called the public radio when our program continues. Support for This American Life comes from Capital One Capital One has a fresh take on banking. Now. You can open a new savings account in about five minutes and earn five times the national average banking with Capital One means 5 times the savings toward your dream honeymoon or five times the savings toward your family's ultimate vacation, even five times the savings toward just feeling good about saving whatever it is.

2 (28m 46s):
It's time to make your savings goals come true. This is banking reimagined. What's in your wallet Capital One na member FDIC? This American Life Myra glass today's program One Last Thing Before. I Go stories that are about whether about what power do words have in the face of death. We've arrived a doctoral program at to Uncle's keeper. So in the First Act of our program people kind of defied death by making small talk and some talk that was not so small with their dead relatives in this Act. Somebody wants to do something very similar make a connection that seemed impossible.

2 (29m 27s):
When people accept in this story, all the relatives are alive, which you'd think would make it super easy. The story comes from Jonathan Goldstein. Hello. Hey Dad. Hi Johnny. Hey, how you doing? Good. You good. Good. Good Yom, Tov. Shana Tova sameach action me. What's that? I'm not sure. Oh, this is my father Buzz. I'm calling him at his home in Montreal. And the reason we're talking. Talking crazy talk is because it's Yom Kippur the Jewish Day of atonement which seems as good a day as any to talk with him about forgiveness.

2 (30m 7s):
So I wanted to I wanted to ask you something and I just wanted to gauge your interest. Yeah, how how would you feel about paying your brother Sheldon a visit? I have no feelings, but I am not really interested. You're not know. My father Buzz is 80 and his brother Sheldon. His only sibling is 85 and for the past 40 years. They've pretty much been on the outs. My father lives in Montreal and Sheldon lives in Florida. And the last time they saw each other over 20 years ago was at their mother's funeral when they had a fight over the details of the arrangement since then they've hardly spoken.

2 (30m 54s):
It worries me because there's not a lot of time left and I don't want my father to have regrets and my father has a profound capacity for regret my mother gave up trying to reunite them years ago after many attempts. So I know that if I don't push him no one else will I'm not surprised that you're not jumping at the idea, but I'm a little surprised that you're is against the idea. Yeah Pines past. He hasn't shown much interest. So I'm respecting that and I leave them alone. What he did do was he he called you on your 80th birthday. Not not so long ago and if I could hold him on his 80th birthday.

2 (31m 35s):
This kind of Tit for Tat accounting is what always gets in the way. You know what? It is at this point with him. I'll tell you what it is. I don't think it's even anger. He's past anger and he's passed any and he had feelings of animosity. He's pissed that he just doesn't care. Yeah, you know, that's apathy. I mean, sometimes it least hate or love their emotions apathy is nothing. Yeah, you know what Johnny as a child, even when I was 10 when I was 9 and 8 I was crazy about him. We had a great, you know, I love them. He was the older brother. He was hello. Yeah. Yeah. I'm listening.

2 (32m 16s):
You know, I just looked up to him and he had all the friends of my feet take me along with him and he was good case somebody tries to put somebody tried to call here being me here the most complicated question. the one I keep coming back to is how did the Bad Blood begin and there are many versions an ill-fated trip to Montreal where Sheldon felt slighted about having to stay in my father's basement an ill-fated trip to New York where my father felt slighted about having to stay in Sheldon's attic rude words spoken to each other's wives

1 (32m 49s):
in one version of the story

2 (32m 51s):
Sheldon's refusal to bring a table to my bris almost resulted in my being circumcised on an ironing board, but in the version being told today, My father was asked by Sheldon to pay more than his fair share for their mother's funeral. And I said you always working some kind of angle so that he got Furious. He got Furious. He started screaming into the phone go to hell drop dead, bye-bye was that that was how that ended but I feel he's the kind of guy who got he has angles like that, you know, he has angles. I always thought I was on the up and up with him and he wasn't with me. If you got a stronger sense that he was interested in seeing you then would you yes, yes.

2 (33m 37s):
You would be my guest. Okay, quick sidebar any time. I've Ever Raised the prospect of visiting Sheldon no matter how hypothetical the scenario my father always makes a point of insisting how no matter what he would not stay in Sheldon's house, even if he was invited. Which I should point out. He never is I wouldn't say this house. How come you guys I wouldn't say there. I mean, that's not my thing. How come you always bring that up? I mean, normally when over goes to visit someone that they haven't seen in decades. Yes stay at a hotel. You know, I would say the motel or somewhere near his place. I'm gonna tell ya know we get a place, you know with an ice machine and you know why you want it you're interested in making a trip.

1 (34m 27s):
I mean I'm

2 (34m 27s):
interested. Do you think that there's anything to be gained in in seeing him? It is I guess this something that may you know, you share your comment experiencing talk about the old days and yet there are things that only you know, I can remember you know, yeah, you know you what you could do is you could call them. Yeah and see what what what what is that attitude is, you know, it depends on you know, how how you feel? What kind of reception you get? Yeah. I mean I would I would be happy to do that. Mike was inspired.

2 (35m 7s):
I like you. Initial suggestion that you call him, feel him out. See what he's like. Okay, I didn't suggest that but you yeah, he was suggested that aren't ya like that it just look you'll give me an honest real give me an honest reaction. I'm happy to do it. But I mean, what are you looking for from from? What do you want to hear from him? I miss my brother would like to see him. Okay, that's cool. Okay. I understand and you you come back old me with an honest evaluation.

2 (35m 50s):
Hello, Sheldon. Yes speaking. Hi,

1 (35m 55s):
I was quite a shock getting a phone call. You said John is yeah, I am I hearing is not that great. Okay, and when I heard the first message I'm saying who the heck is that? I don't know anybody by that name

2 (36m 13s):
Sheldon now lives outside of Fort Lauderdale, but my few memories of him are from when he lived in Upstate New York. I He lived in a trailer. I remember that he worked at a local prison that he smoked cigars that he looked a little like my father but was hunched like the world was weighing down on him and he always wore this expression on his face that seemed to say you got to be kidding me. You're keeping okay. You keeping

1 (36m 37s):
occupied. Yeah, I read a lot. Am I going to gym I go shop. Somehow you know here and there little things here and there

2 (36m 49s):
and so you still go how often you go to the gym three times a week. My father also goes to the gym is that's a part of his routine also. He was hit that he was happy to hear from you on his 80th birthday. Yeah, well,

1 (37m 10s):
they didn't call me on my 85th though

2 (37m 13s):
tit meet at to be honest with you. I've been in the last few years. I've been a loner you would basically almost call me a recluse.

1 (37m 36s):
I don't

2 (37m 37s):
socialize with many people

1 (37m 41s):
and I really don't give a damn what anybody

2 (37m 45s):
thinks. Yeah. And contrary to popular belief. I like being alone by myself. I get along with myself very well. Yeah, look, I don't want to be rude. Yeah. Yeah thing but I want to go have my lunch. Oh, yeah. Yeah, that's fine. It's fine. I Sheldon. I appreciate your talking to me and you would be amenable to to to spending some time. Why not? We are brothers and me we're not close your anything. But you know, we're not going to

1 (38m 27s):
have a chance to see each other much in the

2 (38m 29s):
future. Yeah, is that is that anything that you think about? Not much. No

1 (38m 45s):
we're too and then type you have an address. Yeah, I do

2 (38m 50s):
my dad and I meet up at the Fort Lauderdale Airport. I flew from New York and my dad from Montreal. My father's all dressed up wearing a faux suede sports jacket that I've never seen him in we grab our airport rental and prepare for the two-hour drive to Sheldon in the 90-degree heat. It's immediately made clear that faux suede might not have been the best path.

1 (39m 10s):
Troy's like we're on a safari.

2 (39m 15s):
on the road to Sheldon's my father will experience a spectrum of feelings as we first set out there was excitement,

1 (39m 22s):
you know, my brother was funny in a lot of ways I could laugh we're gonna have a blast with him and automate he's a very

2 (39m 28s):
funny man a half an hour in and this bitterness

1 (39m 32s):
we invited him to your bunk beds and he returned a very cold cause sorry we will not be attending, you know was so mean, you know what I mean, even the writing An hour in and how is Buzz feeling? I'm relaxed. I'm good kind of old to get anxious. You know what I

2 (39m 52s):
mean a half an hour to

1 (39m 54s):
Sheldon's little bit apprehensive 10 minutes to

2 (40m 0s):
Sheldon's and buzzes feeling.

1 (40m 3s):
All right. Yeah, you feeling a little it's going to be

2 (40m 8s):
strange. Yeah. It's going to be very

1 (40m 10s):
strange. I mean the man is a stranger to me now and yet he's my You understand? It's a very strange feeling. Yeah, I want to see he's getting nervous Maybe. Because he's waiting for us, right? Yeah.

2 (40m 30s):
Sheldon lives in the Corner House on a quiet Suburban

1 (40m 33s):
Street ring the bell I guess. This is door. I'll double-check maybe those various. Hi. Thank you lately. I've become a monk me and my pussycat. I got a catalog

2 (41m 3s):
after all the years in the worry and the dread things seem to be going swimmingly. We sit down. Sheldon's kitchen table and my father gets right into it.

1 (41m 12s):
Now this things I want to know what you said that right granny died. Yes, you can

2 (41m 16s):
did the dead are a good place to begin as a subject. They're easily agreed upon and not likely to spark a fight.

1 (41m 24s):
We onkled I'd yeah uncle died. He was the youngest brother. Oh, hey live long. He died. He well, you know who died who half buffman a real? Yeah. I didn't know him that well.

2 (41m 37s):
Yeah. Nish that's

1 (41m 42s):
shocking. Yeah, he was fat. He was fat redhead redhead, right?

2 (41m 46s):
Yeah kamesh.

1 (41m 49s):
Yeah, remember member Johnny Johnny was a sex Mania driver. He oh, he would the dog on the street. If we saw the doggy tried, can I get you guys a cold beer? I'd like a beer beer, even though they're

2 (42m 6s):
in their 80s Sheldon and Buzz still possess voices and temperament suited to shouting out Brooklyn tenement Windows while my voice is best suited to asking a waitress if there will be a sharing. Charge

1 (42m 19s):
the fly. I forgot about that. Sorry Case in point. This is

2 (42m 25s):
Sheldon accidentally swiping a portable microphone receiver off the kitchen table and me trying to smooth things over

1 (42m 32s):
tightness or when it's annoying. You just put it in the pocket there. Just take it off with you, please. Thank you. Thank you

2 (42m 40s):
over the next two days. My testes will flee like frightened cockroaches upward ascending to Heights not seen since the bar mitzvah that Sheldon was Was not attending while it's fun watching them reminisce. I'd say that about 80% of my uncle Sheldon stories about the good old days are filthy enough to make them virtually unbridled castable. But here's one specially selected and beeped for your delicate ears

1 (43m 5s):
Wally Rose wonder whatever became of him. He was a bum me and why Lee Rosen with joining the weightlifting. Yep. Say hi to be tested for a rupture. Hey, I'm a me put his hand. I started laughing so hard I brightness

2 (43m 29s):
over the years. I've seen my father in the role of husband uncle and grandfather. But I've never really seen him in the role of younger brother. How odd to see it now at 80. He sits beside Sheldon with this expression. I've never seen on his face. It's wide-eyed sweet and deferential. But as the day wears on Sheldon and Buzz begin to squabble over their memories fighting over every little detail or

1 (43m 57s):
remember how Louis had with the dye hair. Dye that heavyset girl. So manicurist. She was ahead dying manicurist know she was ahead Ty here's what happened. She went

2 (44m 7s):
over to Irving even argue over the death of their grandmother

1 (44m 10s):
Ira found her body. I hope it don't know I my mother was across the street at Greenbrier. I remember what I got and I knew she was dead. I never saw a dead body in my life, but I knew she was

2 (44m 22s):
dead. Sure. So wait, so you found her. Are you founder? I

1 (44m 27s):
remember looking in on a room and see how she knew I said it was awfully crunk why I found a but let him take the Cano. I'm not using some credit.

2 (44m 40s):
The whole afternoon is like this every subject even their dead grandmother somehow becomes fodder for another pissing match. They're burning up all this time with small talk when what they need is some big talk. In particular, they need to address a story that I Know Who Holds a great deal of meaning for my father. It took place in 1939 on the day their mother left them. I've only ever heard the story from my father never from Sheldon. I wanted to ask what you remember what your

1 (45m 9s):
perspective. Well, I remember that time was when Pop was smacking around and she ran out in the hall and her slip fighting in a whorehouse. He was smashing back. She ran out. Yeah. So what happened the next morning the next morning? Yeah look in the closet of clothes the gun she

2 (45m 31s):
left. What happened after this and my father is telling his that his mother returned soon after she left with a policeman in tow

1 (45m 41s):
and he they came back to try to get you they wanted you to come

2 (45m 45s):
back. with them

1 (45m 49s):
and where were you I was being but you was there were trying to drag you out of that house and they weren't trying to grab my father Grandma.

2 (46m 0s):
This is the point of a story for my father. It proves once and for all how his mother loved Sheldon more than she loved him. Sheldon didn't move out with her and after a year their mother returned and together buzz and Sheldon grew up under the same roof and the same bedroom. Often sleeping under the same blanket each knowing who the mother had chosen. And each having to do their best to carry on and live life with the burden of that knowledge a couple times during the day. I asked them why they haven't spoken in so long and they both incest maybe out of embarrassment that they do talk.

2 (46m 46s):
Just not often. But it isn't true. In fact, my father learned of Sheldon's wife's death many years after the fact and then only from me Sheldon's daughter got in touch through Facebook and we made a phone date where she caught me up on her life and Sheldon's and a few nights later while over at my parents for dinner. I told my father of his sister-in-laws death. There was a terrible look that fell across his face one of sadness, but something else too, maybe shock over just how far he and Sheldon had drifted. I found out about Judy about her death home your wife.

1 (47m 26s):
I didn't know about it either until you told me. Yeah, I didn't I tell you you don't nobody know. We didn't know we didn't know. She was sick about two years

2 (47m 42s):
June.

1 (47m 45s):
Well when she got the diagnosis, she was already stage 4. What do I know about can't sided so the surgeon so he says so I says well box. How did the surgery go? He said it went very well, but the cancers in her liver now, it's bread. I said so now live I said what? You know where I usually go by myself water park.

1 (48m 29s):
They got a waitress there holds weights on the it takes good care for dinner. Sheldon takes us to a local

2 (48m 37s):
Outback Steakhouse as people walk by he provides a running commentary of an elderly couple.

1 (48m 45s):
That coke whatever you think it's time for the execution of an overweight couple

2 (48m 56s):
it's as though he's sharpening his with readying it for the main event teasing my dad about

1 (49m 2s):
Canada. I don't know how you could take Canada on your right why you got nice neighbors wasn't going to say delivering the same place where I'm at. He is 35 38 minutes. I'm happy. Yeah, yeah for my father. I know this is a touchy subject

2 (49m 25s):
believing as he always has that Sheldon looks down on him for the dink Enos of his Canadian life and home. It's like a constant reminder of just who is second best later. My father will repeat Sheldon's words. You're still living in that same place. He'll say for how many years But just then I watch my father clenched and unclenched his jaw as he does when he is brooding. I know he's trying to take the high road trying not to ruin the evening

1 (49m 53s):
two hundred dollars and thirty cents a day Kim. Sheldon invites us back to his place for

2 (49m 60s):
cookies, but my father says he isn't up for

1 (50m 3s):
it.

2 (50m 14s):
As we walk through the restaurant parking lot to the car. My father is silent. I find myself feeling protective of him, like maybe encouraging this trip had been a bad idea only making things worse after midnight lying awake in our hotel. My father insisted. We stay at one I lay in bed thinking about that day in 1939 when my grandmother came back for Sheldon not my father for my father not only did it push him away from Sheldon making him feel jealous and resentful. But it also casts a shadow over the rest of his life causing him to always feel passed over. He's mellowed with age. But as a kid, I saw it come out in all kinds of ways always sensitive to slights ready for a fight at the smallest perceived offense.

2 (51m 0s):
I wonder if there's a different way for my father to see things if there is the only living person in this world who can help is Sheldon when their mom left Sheldon was nine my father 5 Sheldon would have understood a lot more than my father. Yesterday buzzing Sheldon talk like a couple of kids who used to play stickball in the old neighborhood today. If me and my big fat meddling Yap have any sway they'll have a chance to talk as men as brothers even because if not now when day two

1 (51m 44s):
this is a damn good cigar. He said well Dominican Republic they make a damn

2 (51m 48s):
good cigar in the medical public or Utah despite the difficulties of last night. The coin is flipped back to the good side Sheldon offers my father a cigar and with the cigar some cigar talk some pretty foul cigar

1 (52m 1s):
talk. We're riding on Queens Boulevard Johnny's in the back seat with the hole. He's got his naked ass up in the air and it's bumpy. Actually the funny thing and we had to stop for a light and this is a truck driver sitting in the cab up high for

2 (52m 21s):
me if you guys missed each other what can miss each other?

1 (52m 32s):
You know he is so weird to squish. Whoa. What a what is the abroad? No, I mean, I don't know that's you know

2 (52m 40s):
eager to prove to my uncle Sheldon that in spite of the fact I'm wearing my wife's travel deodorant. I am indeed not abroad. I allow them to return to more pressing matters their prostates.

1 (52m 52s):
Did I said Jesus? He says you're pressed a feels like the moon craters and everything that I said. Thank you doctor is compliment thing.

2 (53m 3s):
So if I can steer this away from the prostate if so, my father said that it's significant to him to have come. What do you

1 (53m 10s):
say I agree with whatever he

2 (53m 12s):
said, but what about you you

1 (53m 14s):
I said, I agree with whatever. He said you want to written down. I

2 (53m 19s):
know. It feels like I'm getting a taste of what growing up with Sheldon might have been like so again, I make my move so I have some questions just about because of the stories that I know from my father, but I'm curious what your take is because you were older. Do you remember what was going on when your mom when your mother left originally like what why and what was going

1 (53m 50s):
on? Don't cover this ground before yesterday,

2 (53m 54s):
but for my father's perspective the way I understood it was always you were the favorite. Did you did you feel that way? At this point Sheldon's face. Suddenly softens.

1 (54m 5s):
I always felt the I got the short end of the stick. Yeah, but you didn't you of you were kind of a

2 (54m 12s):
favorite with my mom.

1 (54m 14s):
Yeah, maybe what mom cause maybe temperamentally we were closer than I was with my father. My father never gave me spit. Did you ever get any money from my father? Can't remember you never got I can't remember you never one time. I sprained my ankle. So yeah, that was that was terrible. I laid in that bed. My he was a system. Are you lazy? Bum? Yeah, man, he went off on me dad. He took Sheldon wants children have to say the word.

1 (54m 56s):
He came in with that strap Swingin with the bucket. And you know, I can understand that leaving us feeling of

2 (55m 5s):
resentment and this like

1 (55m 7s):
hey that was his way of communicating with us smack smack and then

2 (55m 15s):
what a way? Yeah, was he easier on you? You think

1 (55m 21s):
it wasn't that easy but he was tough on it showed was I know you're closer to him, you know. Yeah. A lot of things that went on and you don't understand really well. I don't know she had a different take

2 (55m 35s):
why are you had are you surprised by but I was a kid. I didn't understand it, but you didn't know the children was getting it so bad. In buzzes telling their father was always a more or less benign childish figure can capable of expressing his feelings and so given to temper tantrums for Buzz. It was their mother who was the manipulator the woman who played the brothers off each other but hearing Sheldon's take it sounds like maybe their mother didn't come to take Sheldon because she loved him best but simply because he needed more protecting from their father.

2 (56m 18s):
For the first time during our trip I can see my father considering Sheldon's point of view actually taking it in. I know it's intense for him because he can't even meet Sheldon's eyes instead. He looks at me addresses his comments to me,

1 (56m 33s):
you know, it's sad that my father had such a negative

2 (56m 35s):
impact on him, you know, just awful.

1 (56m 39s):
Because he had so much going on for me. He was a wonderful

2 (56m 42s):
son. He worked hard.

1 (56m 45s):
He was a good boy. You don't he went to school talking like I'm a failure in life. No, you weren't a faith. That's what I'm saying. You weren't half a but we'll all I'm saying. Is that emotionally he left an impact on you? It took a long time for me to get out of that emotion. And now I'm at peace with myself. I can talk about him and laugh. 25 now I want peace quiet. I'm happy living by myself. Are you lonely show?

2 (57m 27s):
The last time my father saw my grandfather and full health. My dad was visiting from Canada. My grandfather asked my father to drive him to the cemetery to visit his parents grave. And once there my grandfather wept inconsolably later that day, he would succumb to a stroke and shortly after be moved to a nursing home with Sheldon being more local the burden of my grandfather's care fell mainly to Sheldon. It seems like a lot of the families burdens fell to Sheldon. They put a ladder to

1 (57m 57s):
A lot of the responsibility on him that my dad should have been taking that responsibility and he shouldered that who well who's going to take care of you? Who's gonna take you to school medium number one time? I was later shot you stood outside that cream. I said mildly. I'm here. I'm here. He was good to me. I'm tired immediately. You know, you said you were my older brother used to not be Out of me sometimes but you know, that's the

2 (58m 30s):
way it is. We don't Wood Brothers.

1 (58m 33s):
Well, yeah, I was good in some way some ways. I was me who was who's not who's not who's

2 (58m 40s):
not. So if you feel like you were compelled to see each other now because you knew that, you know, it's now or never kind of thing then it means that it was important to you both right take to see each other.

1 (58m 56s):
You want to take - run? Yes, easy answer.

2 (58m 59s):
Yes. Yes, of course. We're not getting any younger. And what's down the road?

1 (59m 6s):
I'm 80. He's

2 (59m 7s):
85. I mean because the there was a lot

1 (59m 10s):
of water under the bridge and we want to close that bridge

2 (59m 12s):
now. I want to feel easy now. I want to

1 (59m 16s):
say now. He's going to be

2 (59m 17s):
86. I want to call him on his birthday and say happy birthday to him now. I'm going to stand any ceremonies anymore. As my father speaks as per his brothers example dropping f-bombs. Like he's in a Guy Ritchie film Sheldon keeps his arms crossed and his eyes shut tight. He's quiet for several seconds. And then he reaches out to pet his cat.

1 (59m 37s):
Should I leave you in a cat in my will with anything out if anything out, I'll take care of the cat. I'll take care of the cat

2 (59m 47s):
happy. I came to see you that I am

1 (59m 49s):
I'm happy you came that's good. Very good. Barbie I want to buy a house Step one is to sail over there

2 (1h 0m 1s):
when it's time to leave Sheldon walks us outside. But before we get into the rental, he points across the lawn to his neighbor's house. He tells my father that it's for sale and then he tells him the asking price and my father says that doesn't sound bad at all. And Sheldon says that what with Canada being so bloody cold. My father should consider moving to Florida and my father says maybe he

1 (1h 0m 24s):
will All right, you take care of water under the bridge. Thank you. Okay. Yeah safe trip boethius. Thank you. Yeah, they don't get too emotional. They don't even hug. Goodbye. They just shake

2 (1h 0m 39s):
hands and with that it

1 (1h 0m 42s):
feels like buzz has forgiven Sheldon and Sheldon has forgiven Buzz park right on North West Bedford wrong. Oh my God, I feel so different. I feel different Johnny. I just feel so different. This is taking a lot off my shoulders. Yeah. Jonathan Goldstein the story was produced by Wendy door

2 (1h 1m 23s):
with some help from Chris Neary for Jonathan's podcast heavyweight. If you have never heard heavy weight and don't know where to get started. I had say it is such an utterly original program and Jonathan has put together a playlist of his favorite episodes

1 (1h 1m 37s):
just search heavyweight starter kit

2 (1h 1m 40s):
on Spotify Jonathan by the way says his dad and Sheldon are doing fine under lockdown sudden says that he's happy with the peace and quiet.

1 (1h 2m 5s):
But it is program was first broadcast for years ago produced by Robin semyon our staff of this episode on the baker Susan Burton. So he chased in the Shiva shankara Neil drumming careened off in a manual joji Stephanie. Pucllana choppy while David kestenbaum Mickey meet Jonathan met here are Christopher also ptolemaic tyranny and Nancy update. Production help for this rerun from nor Gail Catherine raimondo and stone Nelson a translator for the wind phone with Kiko matsuo special. Thanks today to Emily angle young Brittney Griner Rose dragon and novakovich Helen Gary. Yuki's a sauna Rico Meek, Karen Jeffrey John Matthews Christine fellows. Hellish all in Lawrence to Sony our website This American Life dot-org were during lockdown or during your commute to your essential job. You can listen to seven hundred episodes of our show for absolutely free This American Life is to cover the public radio stations by PR X the public radio exchange for for This American Life comes from Life way Foods sport for your microbiome and your immune system come for the probiotics and life.

1 (1h 3m 2s):
Wait Kiefer. Learn how to love your guts visiting life. Wait Foods.com. Thanks as always to our programs co-founder. Mr. Troy Mattia

2 (1h 3m 11s):
presidential debates are coming up later this year. He tells everybody he knows why I'm never chosen to ask questions at the presidential

1 (1h 3m 18s):
debates. You know, he is the weirdest question. I'm Ira Glass back next week with more stories This American Life.

2 (1h 3m 46s):
Next week on This American Life for David prom night was the culmination of years of effort, you

1 (1h 3m 52s):
know, so I changed a lot since sophomore year. I got into this crowd and stuff and they just changed and changed my speech my dress on this stuff. I'm still the same person. I exchanged. I'm just this is the popular crowd. I'm just popular most gorgeous girl in school ask her to prom. She says yes prom night damn prom night. That's actually going to podcast right here in your local public radio station.