1 (1s):
Support for This American Life comes from

3 (3s):
Capital One where you can open a savings account in about five minutes and earned five times the national average. Just imagine five times more savings toward that overdue home edition, maybe even an addition on that addition. This is banking reimagined. What's in your wallet Capital

1 (20s):
One na member FDIC support for This American Life comes from Netflix's new documentary becoming becoming is an intimate look into the life of former First Lady Michelle

3 (32s):
Obama during a moment of profound

1 (34s):
change not only for her personally, but for the

3 (37s):
country she and her husband served over eight impactful years

1 (41s):
watch becoming now on

3 (43s):
Netflix. A quick warning. There are curse words that are unbeaten today's episode of the show. If you prefer a beeped version, you can find that at our website This American Life dot-org. When they started to prepare for covid-19 patients at Rogue Regional Medical Center in southern, Oregon, dr. Some not go she was part of the team. He's the medical director for the Intensive Care Unit pulmonary specialist and very dedicated to his job Works long hours the kind of doctor who gives out a cell phone number to staff and patients and families. It tells them to use it anytime and it's wife rain who is also a doctor says he really threw himself into this task.

1 (1m 20s):
He spent a lot of his even off time at the hospital trying to gear up for you know, The big wave to hit ask right and he's a little bit of a geek. So got super excited. You know, he's like, oh we today figured out how to use one ventilator on eight patients instead of you know, I think four or six is considered the Mac standard. So he spends calculating. Okay, you know, we'll be able to vent 360 patient's preparing for all of this

3 (1m 50s):
so far. We've been lucky the pandemic is mostly spared. The half million people is Hospital serves in southern, Oregon. But I spoke with her husband. Dr. Ghosh when afternoon last week said in total, we've only had three covid patients that needed intensive care doctor goes prepared for a war that he's not having to fight but all the time he gets invitations to go join the fight in your kwazy Anna another hot spots begging him to fly out help every single day. In fact, I get a case four or five of these a day and I've been getting them for the last few weeks. These are back in video of fuel. Sure. Hi, dr. Ghosh. It's Elizabeth with Core Medical. I hope you're doing well.

3 (2m 30s):
We have a

1 (2m 31s):
client in New York who needs critical care support

3 (2m 34s):
due to a high volume of patients. I hope to connect with you soon. Thank you for all you do. Another one says immediate ice you coverage needed should you be able to assist please give me a call or send a CV to yada yada yada, we can license another one says good morning or facility in Houston area is needing some help in the rice you can you help them during this crisis. I also have received texts from Friends personally, then the in such a need for critical care physicians. Do you wish you can go? Oh hell? Yeah. Hell yeah, I mean this I realized this is what I trained for.

3 (3m 15s):
This is what I do, you know, this is like, you know, six years of specialty training and then, you know, nine years of experience. It's I feel useless sitting here in southern Oregon while you know, that Northeast is getting Palmer. Yeah, like there's a historic medical emergency that could use your exact special skill. Yeah, I mean I feel guilty even going home and you know playing with my kids and watching TV and you know, I know my friends are my brethren of the East Coast are risking their lives suboptimal PPE not enough Specialists to help

1 (3m 50s):
them. So he comes back from work one day. I'm in the midst of getting dinner going for our two children and he's like, what do you think about me going to New York? You know, I am sitting here nothing is happening and there they are just dying and I think my first Flash action was just anger. I'm like, how can you be so selfish you only always think as a physician and you know me or the kids or like family just you know, you don't even think about it and trying to go to New York, you know specially kind of looking for trouble. I'm like, you know, there are other doctors, but I only have one husband my kids have only one dad and you're the only son to your mom who's a we don't now and kind of depends on you for everything But then I think 10 minutes later I kind of was telling myself that you know, I'm not surprised by this.

1 (4m 43s):
He's at his best when he's the physician. He works harder than anything. He'll work at at home. He's more patient with his staff and patients. Then he is with my children this just how he connects. I think there's some part of him which just gets very satisfied when he is able to help someone.

3 (5m 5s):
He's not gonna go to New York and now because of her not because of their kids who still little now because he's worried we'll get covid. He's young and healthy and has a doctor's overconfidence Assuming. He's gonna be fine. Is that going to save lives like he wants because he can't go and can't go because of his immigration status in the United States on something called an H-1B visa and the rules prohibit me for working for anyone else other than my employer to reassess the an organ. You can't go to work for a hospital in Brooklyn or New Orleans can't even volunteer run a health emergency in the United States and over 1/4 of the Physicians here are foreign-born over 8,000 of those have the kind of Visa that some not has an H-1B visa which is given to people who have special education or skills.

3 (5m 57s):
I want to work in the United States and some that's case. He was born in India came here for his medical residency got is H-1B visa when he got his first job at a training at the hospital where he still works nine years later if you had a green card would fix the problem and he's waiting for one. But the backlog on green cards is massive that will take Kate it is the government should Grant exceptions to the rules right now and Life Health Care workers with H-1B visas fly to the hot spots and help out during this crisis and dozens of senators and congresspeople but the Democrats but if you Republican sprinkled in I've tried to get the US citizenship and immigration service to do just that so that hasn't gotten much traction.

3 (6m 39s):
So, dr. Ghosh is stuck in southern Oregon during this crisis far from the action. What if you just went can you just go what if I do that then I violate the terms of my H-1B and it becomes null and void and I see then you'll be here legally all of a sudden. Well, yeah, then I'll be out of status which means I'll be unemployed and that thought did cross my mind trust me, but the cause is just too high. Yeah. No, you know if I was just by myself, you know sure I do what I thought was right and Then I could just up and leave go back to India or elsewhere with a wife and three-year-old and a six-year-old.

3 (7m 21s):
Yeah, I can't risk that. Yeah. How does it make you feel that you can't help? If

1 (7m 35s):
frustrated

3 (7m 39s):
small, you know, you think that Common Sense would Prevail and they do what's right for the for the population especially in such trying times. You want to yell and shout and scream and say what exactly are you guys thinking of you know? Cargo says before this. He thought happy in southern Oregon. He's one of the leaders in his Hospital felt like you belong. But since covid the first time he started to think he might leave the United States, you know, I've been thinking about this more and more because you know, my kids are only three and six they can easily adapt to a new way of life.

3 (8m 19s):
I'll be honest this community in southern Oregon has embraced me and this is home for me. I was happy just doing my job raising my family and then when this thing hit and I realized how helpless I am and how inconsequential It boggles my mind that that they don't think that this is a priority, you know, I'll be you know, if this happens again this winter with an outbreak and this repeats itself. I'm out of here. I'm done. What do you mean? Ohh what I like is this winter season there's another search and then we hit with the flu and the coronavirus and personnel and Equipment shortage and they need help.

3 (9m 5s):
I'm not going to sit around just going through this rigmarole all over again. I'm going to pack my bags and leave maybe make a stop on in New York or something for a few weeks before I leave. So it's a the plan would be to leave take the whole family back to India. Maybe on the way you'd work for a few weeks or months in a New York hospital since that point. It wouldn't matter might as well. I mean if I'm going to get out of here might as well do some good along the way I asked his wife Rae know about that plan. She was like, well we decide about that together. For now anyway, so I'm not the stuck getting texts like this one that he got recently from a friend a guy who went to medical school with his now in New Jersey Deluge with covid cases.

3 (9m 51s):
So here he says hey dude, haven't heard back from you in a few days. What happened to your plans of coming here we could certainly use you getting our asses kicked here. Besides haven't seen you forever. So I reply so apparently cannot help due to the H-1B visa. He replies are you effing kidding me? We are using residents from unrelated Specialties in our ICU. You just gonna sit there. So I reply what do you what do you want me to do things? Like this is bullshit bro. I gotta go. Talk to you later. Lena program stack it so many of us stuck at home or stuck without a job for stuck on hold.

3 (10m 35s):
For everything next it was going to happen in our lives waiting for a future arrived and now seems unreadable and impenetrable the stories of people stuck in some unusual and extreme situations with I swear. We are human beings here at our show. We need this to with some Happy Endings on some stories WBZ Chicago. It's This American Life. I'm Ira Glass stay with us. That one you can check out anytime you like but you can never leave so I showed it is about people who are stuck years ago. One of our co-workers. I'm a baker Founders have trapped in a hotel room with her siblings held there by a stranger what happened was their family is all staying at this Marriott, but there's such a big family

1 (11m 26s):
for the kids were in one room with the oldest kid in the parents next door.

3 (11m 30s):
He's 14 years old at the time in the room with 10 year old Julia eight-year-old Britain and five-year-old Jill. I run with sharing a bed with Helena the fourteen-year-old. The eighth grader was more or less in charge then one night. They're all asleep. It's the middle of the

1 (11m 46s):
night. My memory is that it's like I saw like a sliver of Light, which is what woke me up and the sound of the door closing and there was the feeling that there was someone standing at the foot of the bed. So I reached over and I turn the lamp on and there was this woman and she looked startled to see us. And the first thing she said was you're just children. I didn't expect you to be

3 (12m 18s):
children. So that's pretty creepy. Right? What did you make of their saying that

1 (12m 25s):
I instantly felt like

3 (12m 30s):
this is an unsafe situation. Yeah. Describe her.

1 (12m 36s):
I remember she was my mom's age. So she was probably in her 40s and brown hair white kind of like frumpy

3 (12m 47s):
looking like somebody you'd sit next to on the bus or something. Did she see

1 (12m 52s):
medicine? She seemed

3 (12m 56s):
really distressed. She was crying too. She was crying and she was crying. Yeah, she cried the whole time. She was there she's crying and she said your children. I didn't expect you to be children. Yeah. And do the other kids get up. Everyone's Wide Awake

1 (13m 15s):
like I distinctly remember

3 (13m 17s):
my little brothers and sisters faces because their eyes were just huge

1 (13m 21s):
but no one said anything.

3 (13m 24s):
And are they sitting up to or they just like like flight

1 (13m 26s):
still there still laying flat like nobody

3 (13m 29s):
moved?

1 (13m 37s):
So what happens next she's talking right? This isn't how it's supposed to be and and she's also crying and she's talking to herself. I remember being very hard to follow what what she was saying. Yeah and eventually I said I'm sorry. I think you have the wrong room. And she started to cry and she said I know I know and I do this I do this. I don't know why I do this and then she's pacing back and forth and and kind of crying and she sits down on the bed at the foot of the

3 (14m 18s):
bed. Did she seem crazy or does she seem upset?

1 (14m 23s):
I mean, it's interesting. I was I think I'd I was too young and unfamiliar to identify. What a crazy person seems like yeah, but what I could identify That moment was that this person was unpredictable.

3 (14m 38s):
So you guys like oh, I've got to be really careful how I do this. I remember feeling that pressure

1 (14m 43s):
and in that moment, we're very very very aware of my brothers and sisters because they were so little and that something bad could happen to them and that the way that it wasn't going to happen to them was me. There were no adults there. I think it was the first situation I was ever in where there was you couldn't defer to someone else to keep you safe or tell you what to do. And what do I do? And it had that quality of like like time slows down. And you're kind of you're there, but you're also watching.

1 (15m 34s):
And to the then I did the math in my head and I was like, okay. I have a couple options. They are Cry for Help scream, but I don't think anyone will hear mmm. I remember looking at how far away the phone was for me and I realize I can reach and grab the phone and I could call for help. For even like like if I could knock on the door where my sister

3 (16m 3s):
was sister in the connecting room next door.

1 (16m 6s):
I could at least they would know something was happening in here and they could get to us in time.

3 (16m 11s):
Yeah,

1 (16m 12s):
but all of that felt like like an escalation like I would provoke her. And so what can I do to not provoke her kind of play up the fact that we're children and what I felt I needed to do was I needed to calm her down and become her friend and if I could become her friend, she would leave and she wouldn't hurt us

3 (16m 38s):
like get her to see you as a person

1 (16m 41s):
like make her think I was on her side. Because then it didn't feel like she didn't see us as people. It just felt like it felt dangerous and I didn't understand why and I felt like the key to being safe was slowing everything down. And I remember saying like, I'm really sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm here. I'm sorry. I'm doing this. I'm sorry, and I don't remember this but my brother remembers

3 (17m 19s):
that what she said was I'm sorry

1 (17m 21s):
girls. I'm sorry girls and that his whole memory of this night was just being like I'm a boy

3 (17m 28s):
like so mad

1 (17m 33s):
so I asked her. I said are you okay is everything okay? And that's she kept you know going on about how her night was so hard and I was like, I'm so sorry that sounds really really difficult

3 (17m 47s):
as you trying to befriend

1 (17m 48s):
her. Yeah this me trying to befriend her but it's weird. I feel like I was hyper alert to like if I can understand what's going on with her. I can help solve it, but I couldn't understand because it didn't make any sense.

3 (18m 1s):
Did you feel sorry for I

1 (18m 3s):
felt concerned for her?

3 (18m 6s):
Yeah,

1 (18m 7s):
and and then she took out her purse and she reached into her purse and then she gripped onto something and I remember thinking like oh, no, like what is the way like, I thought

3 (18m 19s):
like it's like a gun or something. Alright gun or a knife or something. I remember my heart just dropping

1 (18m 24s):
and then she pulled out a hairbrush and then she just started brushing her hair. Like at the foot of my bed. Wow, and and at that point I was like, this is really

3 (18m 37s):
weird. This is like

1 (18m 41s):
and I don't think she's gonna leave. And then she sat on the vanity in front of the mirror the desk and she took her earrings off and oh wow,

3 (19m 1s):
and she started like take sugar shoes off. She

1 (19m 5s):
like took her coat off. She was just

3 (19m 6s):
like I like making

1 (19m 8s):
herself comfortable to like be here now, and so I let her do all that and was sort of listening to her. Go on about what was wrong, and then eventually after I felt like enough time had passed I said. We we have to wake up early to go to school tomorrow, and we're really tired. So I think we should probably go back to bed now. And she was like, I know I know I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm here. I'm here. I'm sorry. I'm here and I said

3 (19m 47s):
no. It's like

1 (19m 48s):
totally fine that you're here almost like you know, thank you for being here. But do you mind leaving now? And so I like very slowly stood up and walked over to the door and like every moment was like making sure they're safe and then I open the

3 (20m 6s):
door. And she said Okay Okay, and she put her shoes on and then she

1 (20m 11s):
started to leave and just as she was about to leave I said, oh you forgot your earrings. And then she

3 (20m 19s):
started crying all over again. Like it was this huge thing

1 (20m 23s):
walked over to get the earrings and then sat back down on the bed and I remember

3 (20m 27s):
thinking like,

1 (20m 29s):
why did I bring up

3 (20m 31s):
the earrings? Like we were so close to being safe. So then

1 (20m 36s):
then the whole thing is

3 (20m 37s):
basically the whole thing started all over again where

1 (20m 39s):
I had to like listen to her cry like calm her down. And then finally I'm like, um, you know, we have to wake up early to go to school. Do you mind leaving and I walked her to the door and she walked out of the door and then

3 (20m 56s):
as soon as she was out of the door, I just like like Push the door as hard as I could to close it

1 (21m 2s):
and when I pushed it like like basically like slammed it shut she screamed at the top of her

3 (21m 8s):
lungs. And is there like a boat or something on the door?

1 (21m 11s):
I think I did bolt it after I slammed it shut and then I heard her screaming in the hallway and then she ran down the hallway screaming. And then she ran back towards the door screaming

3 (21m 21s):
and that must have been terrifying it was so scary

1 (21m 25s):
and then then it got was quiet and then I heard this loud like she's like banging on the door like it's hard as you can right and then I hear a voice and my dad my dad's like open the door open the door and I realize it's not her ban the door so I open the door and my dad standing there and he's like did you hear?

3 (21m 48s):
Someone screaming in the hallway.

1 (21m 54s):
So then I tell missile story. I'm like, there's this woman juice in our room. I tell them all the details and he is furious. He was so mad and then he told us to stay there shut the door don't open the door and then he went downstairs and talk to the hotel about it. Yeah, what are you doing? They tell him that she had been outside. She was crying. They asked if she was a guest there. She said yes, her name was a Lena Baker and so they looked up the name it Lena Baker Elena Bakery. And your name is Elena Baker? Yes. Okay, but I don't believe this part of the story. I think someone at the hotel just said this to him. Oh cover and then they gave her a key and then I gave her a key. Yeah, and so the hotel offered him, you know, the whole safer free everything for free and he's like, I don't care about your money.

1 (22m 41s):
Like I want you guys to do a formal investigation as to how this happened.

3 (22m 45s):
Well the toe white man takes charge move.

1 (22m 48s):
Why doesn't why point

3 (22m 50s):
taken Hispanic man a passionate but such a Hispanic. I was just thinking like you just never hear like somebody be like I demand a formal investigation. You know what I mean? It's like it's like a he's a member of Congress or something, you know? Yeah. Yeah. Alright

1 (23m 7s):
anyway, but that's what I mean. That's totally how my dad would like. That's my dad

3 (23m 11s):
point taken. Okay,

1 (23m 12s):
and so they do a formal investigation which they then send to my dad

3 (23m 17s):
and long after. You've got gone from that

1 (23m 19s):
towel exactly and in it, there's a picture of the woman and then there's her history. She had been in a psychiatric hospital and escaped that night come to the hotel and she had a long history of breaking into people's homes and like he's not certain about this Parts. I don't know. He doesn't remember it. He doesn't remember but he says that he remembers there being like she had attacked people when she'd broken into their home's

3 (23m 47s):
that's what he remembers.

1 (23m 48s):
That's what he remembers. Yeah,

3 (23m 57s):
the part of the story the investigation who the woman was only found that out a couple years ago. When you ask your dad about it at the time back when she was 14, my parents kept all that from her and her brother and sisters. They didn't want them to dwell on it or make them afraid of the world. They didn't win that evening to become a bigger deal than it already was.

1 (24m 19s):
And honest as today that worked and it's funny I've even as I've like told their story over the years people like oh, that's so traumatic or that's crazy. I don't think of it like that.

3 (24m 29s):
That's how it does. It just is sort of like

1 (24m 32s):
a because nothing bad happened It has no category for me that makes sense. It was it's been easier. It was easier to just think like oh this one this weird thing happened one night when we were in a hotel

3 (24m 48s):
in retrospect. Would you have preferred if they told you back when you were 14

1 (24m 52s):
now? I think it's a good that I got to live in a world that I think is safe.

3 (24m 57s):
On the other hand, she says if they had made clear how much danger she was in the family's memory of it. And her memory of it would be of this weird event with no category this random thing that happened one night instead. It would fit squarely into the category called Victory solid win for 14 year old girl in a big religious family when you got that stranger out of their hotel room without anybody getting hurt. And I said she would like that way in. He's trapped inside a room with an unpredictable person. Really. All you got is your wits and your ability to read the situation and you're judgmental guessing what a work nice to show everybody that even a kid can make the right call sometimes if the pay attention closely enough.

3 (25m 46s):
That's who you can't go your own way. This piece of writing that for months. We've been trying to figure out how to get onto the radio trying to figure out a theme where we could conceivably run it and it's about somebody stuck in a bad relationship and this case an abusive relationship and tries to capture what that feels like in particular all the mental energy that somebody in that situation can put into trying to figure out exactly what they should do to avoid setting off their partner. In her Memoir in the Dreamhouse Carmen Mary Ann Machado invented this totally ingenious way to get that feeling across there's this chapter. That's a Choose Your Own Adventure which imagines different choices that she could have made a heads up that this excerpt includes a scene with sexual content.

3 (26m 31s):
It's red Forest by after Zoe

1 (26m 33s):
Winters page one. You wake up and the air is milky and bright the room glows with a kind of effervescent contentment despite the boxes and clothes and dishes. You think to yourself. This is the kind of morning you could get used to. When you turn over she is staring at you the Luminous innocence of the light curdles in your stomach. You don't remember ever going from awake to afraid so quickly. You are moving all night. She says your arms and elbows touched me. You kept me awake. If you apologize profusely go to page 2 if you tell her to wake you up next time your elbows touch her in your sleep go to page 3.

1 (27m 20s):
If you tell her to calm down go to page 5

3 (27m 24s):
I choose page 2. page two

1 (27m 29s):
I'm so sorry. You tell her I really didn't mean to I just move my arms around a lot in my sleep. You try to be light about it. Did you know my dad does the same thing the sleeping damsels Swoon? So weird. I must have are you really sorry. She says I don't think you are. I am he say you want the first impression of the morning to return to you its freshness. It's light. I really am prove it how Stop doing it. I told you I can't fuck you. She says and gets out of bed. You follow her all the way to the

3 (28m 7s):
kitchen go to page. Seven page 7

1 (28m 19s):
breakfast. You scramble some eggs, make some toast. She eats mechanically and leaves the plate on the table clean that up. She says As She Goes to the bedroom to get dressed. If you stare mute lie at the dirty plate and all you can think about is Clara Barton the feminist icon of your youth who had to teach yourself how to be a nurse and endured abuse from men telling her what to do at every turn and you remember being so angry and running to your parents and asking them if women still got told what was right or proper and your mom said, yes, and your dad said no and you for the first time had an inkling of how complicated and terrible the world was go to page 10.

1 (28m 60s):
If you do as you are told go to page eight, if you tell her to do it herself go to page 5. Page five are you kidding? He'd never do this. Don't try to convince any of these people that you'd stand up for yourself for one second. Get out of here. Go to the next chapter you're out. Wait, no, let's try that again. I go to page eight. Page 8 as you're washing the dishes you think to yourself. Maybe I should put a tack on my forehead.

1 (29m 40s):
Maybe I should be a better person. Go to page one. page one you wake up in the air is milky and bright the room glows with the kind of effervescent contentment despite the boxes and clothes and dishes. You think to yourself. This is the kind of morning you could get used to when you turn over she is staring at you the Luminous innocence of the light curdles in your stomach. You don't remember ever going from awake to afraid so quickly you are moving all night. She says your arms and elbows touched me. You kept me awake if you apologize profusely go to page 2 if you tell Calm down go to page five. If you tell her to wake you up next time your elbows touch her in your sleep.

1 (30m 23s):
Go to page 3. I go to page 3 Page 3 baby if this ever happened in the future, you can always wake me up and I'll go to the couch. I promise. I really don't mean to do it. I don't have any memory of it. I can control how I move in my sleep. You are such a fucking cunt. She says you never take responsibility for anything. All you have to do is wake me up. You say a kind of incoherent desperation zipping through your skull. That's it wake me up and tell me to move or sleep on the couch and I will do it. I swear to you. Fuck you. She says and gets out of bed. You follow her to the kitchen go to page. Seven page 7 breakfast.

1 (31m 5s):
You scramble some eggs, make some toast. She eats mechanically and leaves the plate on the table clean that up. She says As She Goes to the bedroom to get dressed. If you do as you are told go to page eight, if you tell her to do it herself go to page five if you stare meet Lee at the dirty plate and all you can think about is Clara Barton the feminist icon of your youth who had to teach yourself how to be a nurse and endured abuse from men telling her what to do at every turn and you remember being so angry and running to your parents and asking them if women still got told what was right or proper and your mom said, yes, and your dad said no and you for the first time had an inkling of how complicated and terrible the world was go to page 10.

1 (31m 54s):
Page 10 that night she fucks you as you lie there mute Lee praying for it to be over praying. She won't notice you're gone. You have voided your body so many times by now that it is force of habit reflexive as a sigh. It reminds you of your first boyfriend who fucked you while watching porn Howie rutted and rutted and then every so often lifted the remote to rewind something you couldn't see once you turned your head over the lip of the bed and saw a tangle of upside down Limbs and your brain couldn't make sense of them. You never looked again. He would just lie there silently watching his face move over you.

1 (32m 38s):
it was like being unfolded beneath the yarn of the planetarium as a kid the sped up rotation of the earth the movement of the stars the constellations melting into and out of being you shudder and moan with Precision. She turns off the lights. You watch the darkness until the darkness leaves you or you leave it? To sleep go to page 14. To dream about the present go to page 13 to dream about the future go to page 12.

1 (33m 25s):
To dream about the past go to page 11. I want to dream about the past I choose page 11. Page 11 the first time. It happened the first time she yelled at you so much. You were crying within 30 seconds from waking a record. She said the first 10 minutes of the day. I'm not responsible for anything. I say. The Struck you as poetic you even wrote it down sure you would find a place for it in a book Maybe Go to page 14 page 9 you shouldn't be on this page.

1 (34m 12s):
There's no way to get here from the choices given to you. Do you think that by flipping through this chapter? Linearly? You'd find some kind of relief don't you get it. All of this shit already happened and you can't make it not happen no matter what you do. Do you want a picture of a faun? Will that help? Okay, here's a van. She is small and dappled and loose leged. She hears a sound freezes and then bolts she knows what to do. She knows there somewhere safer. She can be.

1 (34m 52s):
Go to page 10. I don't want to go to page

3 (34m 55s):
10. Page six

1 (35m 3s):
you shouldn't be on this page. There's no way to get here from the choices given to you you flipped here because you got sick of the cycle you wanted to get out. You're smarter than me. Go to page 10 fine. I got to page 10. page 10 that night she fucks you as you lie there mutely praying for it to be over praying. She won't notice you're gone you avoided your body so many times by now that it is force of habit reflexive as a sigh. It reminds you of your other conclusion of the Earth the movement of the stars the constellations melting into and out of being.

1 (35m 46s):
You shudder and moan with Precision. She turns off the lights you watch the darkness until the darkness leaves you or you leave it. To sleep go to page 14 to dream about the past go to page 11. to dream about the present go to page 13 page 13. You shouldn't be here, but it's okay. It's a dream. She can't find you here. In a minute you're going to wake up and everything is going to seem like it's the same but it's not there's a way out you listening to me. You can't forget when you wake up. You can't go to page 14.

1 (36m 29s):
I want to dream about the future I go to page 12. Page 12. It's going to be. All right, one day your wife will gently adjust your arm. If it touches her face at night, soothingly straightening it while kissing you sometimes you will wake up just enough to notice other times. She will only tell you in the morning. It's the kind of morning you could get used to go to page 14 page 14 you wake up and the air is milky and bright the room goes with the kind of effervescent contentment despite the boxes and clothes and dishes. You think to yourself. This is the kind of morning you could get used to when you turn over.

1 (37m 10s):
She's staring at you the Luminous innocence of the light curdles in your stomach. You don't remember ever going from awake to afraid so quickly. You were moving all night. She says your arms and elbows touched me you kept me awake. If you apologize profusely go to page two, if you tell her to wake you up next time your elbows touch her in your sleep. Go to page 3 if you toss back the blanket from your body and hit the floor with both feet and tear through the house like it's Pamplona and when you get to the driveway, your car keys are already in your hand and you drive away with a theatrical squeal of the tires. Never to return again go to page 15 page 15. That's not how it happened. But okay. We can pretend.

1 (37m 51s):
I'll give it to you. Just this once. Turn to page 16. page 16 in end in the pit of it you fantasize about dying tripping on a sidewalk and stumbling into the path of an oncoming car a gas leak silently offering you in your sleep a machete-wielding Madman on public transit falling down the stairs, but drunk so you flop limb over limb like a marionette and feel no pain. Anything to make it stop? You have forgotten that leaving is an option.

3 (38m 37s):
So he went errs reading a chapter from Cara Maria machado's Memoir in the Dreamhouse. I knew how it would feel to be free. We sure could be all the chains holding me. I wish I could say all things then I should say say a loud and clear for the whole round world.

3 (39m 18s):
Coming up family inquiry team thinks figured everything out doing everything perfectly until evidence of one tiny tiny mistake. That's in a minute Chicago public radio. When our program continues support for This American Life comes from Capital One Capital One has a fresh take on banking. Now, you can open a new savings account in about five minutes and earn five times the national average banking with capital. Means 5 times the savings toward your dream honeymoon or five times the savings toward your family's ultimate vacation even five times the savings toward just feeling good about saving whichever it is.

3 (40m 0s):
It's time to make your savings goals come true. This is banking reimagined. What's in your wallet

1 (40m 7s):
Capital One na member FDIC support for This American Life comes from Netflix's new documentary becoming becoming is an intimate look into the life of former First Lady Michelle

3 (40m 19s):
Obama during a moment of profound change

1 (40m 22s):
not only for her personally, but for the country she

3 (40m 25s):
and her husband served over eight impactful years in the White House the film offers a rare and up

1 (40m 30s):
close. Look at her life

3 (40m 32s):
taking viewers behind the scenes as she embarks on a 34 City Tour that highlights the power of community to bridge our divides and the spirit of That comes when we openly share our stories watch it now only on Netflix. Tus American Life Myra glass Today's Show stuck for these long lockdown days and weeks and months stories of people trapped in one situation or another for long stretches stuck. I say this recording these words in a closet at home here. I'm going to tap. That's the sound of me grabbing hangers and a shirt. So this writer named Damon Linker wrote this column for the magazine and website the week about how right now the schools and jobs shut down.

3 (41m 17s):
We've all My moored from the future we're stuck in the present and it's unclear when we're going to move forward to you know, graduation or a new job or whatever else. We're building for ourselves and our lives and a normal time. We will be looking forward to and he tries to make the case that this is a big big deal human beings live their lives in time. He writes our sense of ourselves is probably who were trying to become quote a life without forward momentum is to a considerable extent of life without purpose. Has released the kind of purpose that lifts our spirits and livens our steps without the momentum and purpose we found her present without a future is a life that feels less worth living because the life haunted by a shadow of futility and quote.

3 (42m 5s):
I have to say I've thought about that so much these last few weeks because so many people that I'm close to I just see how they are stressed out by how weirdly formless their days have become. The normal routine is all gone and all this have only the Claudia sense of what the future is going to be. Act three of our program today is about a family that is in that limbo how good down trying to get by when you're stuck indoors for long stretches of time weird things can happen. So let's get to this this is act 3 Cold Case. So, you know, I'm those locked room detective stories where there's a crime and some room and it's unclear how the culprit even got into the room.

3 (42m 47s):
This next story is kind of about that sort of situation one of our producers Nadia Raymond explains.

1 (42m 54s):
This thing happened recently that made no sense to me at all. My family's been isolating and Suburban Rochester New York where my parents live and I mean hardcore isolating. We see no one we go nowhere. We haven't been inside a store or been around other humans in two months for food. We do curbside pickup or delivery which privilege I know then we do this insane disinfection process where we wipe everything down with a 90% rubbing alcohol 10-person water solution. We made ourselves. When we're done the room smells like a sterilized doctor's office when we go for walks, if we see anyone we cross the street a block ahead. We pick up all male with disposable gloves leave it in the garage for 24 hours.

1 (43m 38s):
We used to spray with Lysol first we agreed that was Overkill, but to be honest I still do it behind my family's back. So in my mind, there is no way any germ could break through our impenetrable disinfectant Fortress, but somehow after doing this Day after day for seven straight weeks.

3 (43m 57s):
Yeah, I woke up fairly early in the morning and felt it. I think I have a cold.

1 (44m 3s):
That's my husband Jeremy.

3 (44m 5s):
I was run down runny nose sore throat

1 (44m 11s):
in a couple of days. He was fine, but I was like how the hell did that even happen? How could he possibly have gotten a cold? We've been super careful because he has an immune deficiency when that affects his respiratory system. It keeps me up at night sometimes because if the cold virus made it into her house, then the coronavirus could too and there was a crack in her armor. I needed to know where we had failed. So Jeremy and I consulted an expert at a very safe social distance. Where are you?

3 (44m 41s):
I'm in Cardiff Wales United Kingdom, and I'm on the coast here. So I'm looking out over the sea. So I'm really well isolated.

1 (44m 52s):
This is Ron Nichols who really knows about Colts study them for 50 years. He ran a place called the common cold Center at Cardiff University almost immediately. I told them all the precautions we were taking I don't understand how this is like physically possible. I'm just really want to know like how did this how did this happen? Like, how could he have gotten this know?

3 (45m 12s):
It's a bit of a mystery. Let me see if I can ask you some questions to work through it. Rather like a detective that you say you've not actually met anybody. So I assume you've not physically touched anybody shaken hands or any anything like that. No, not at all. What about the door handle outside? Is anybody else touch that door handle, but perhaps to open it a cleaner or a delivery man.

1 (45m 41s):
Well, so here's what I've done. Every time we go out. The house is started to spray the door handle with Lysol and And now I made the paint come off. So there's like a big streak going down the middle of it because I've sprayed it so much. I can personally guarantee that doorknob is safe

3 (45m 60s):
the next way you could pick up a cold from someone is by what we call an hour or so. These are just tiny particles. Is there any way that someone could have been outside and coughing and sneezing and maybe small particles of Come in. Is that a possibility that seemed like the only possible way because we will see people jogging walking towards us and we'll cross the street. And so if there's any potential for them to have sneezed or coughed in the trail, yeah, that's a possibility of you called downwind from them.

1 (46m 38s):
I mean sure but pretty damn likely Echols moves on to a different line of questioning.

3 (46m 44s):
I'm I'm homing in now on two possibilities for Jeremy did Jeremy experience any pitching at all with this episode that he had itching in the throat or no? Because if you had any itching I would tend to think that it could be some sort of allergy. No, not that I can

1 (47m 7s):
recall and he's been tested twice. No allergies. Which leaves one last possibility when I didn't even imagine like not in my wildest dreams the thing that made him sick it was inside him all along.

3 (47m 23s):
We all carrying a lot of bacteria around in our throat and nose normally know if we get stressed and you did mention that Jeremy did have a bit of a slight immune deficiency, but stress causes us to get even more immune deficient. Pain is possible that some of the bacteria that are normally hanging around in the throat or nose of Jeremy have taken that opportunity of low immunity to make a bit of an infection. So I think I'm proving that it's probably a bacterial infection because I can't see how on Earth you would have got a cold with all the precautions that you're taking.

3 (48m 6s):
So yeah, well

1 (48m 7s):
like inside of him already

3 (48m 9s):
not a virus, but it bacterium but It's masquerading as a common cold.

1 (48m 15s):
That's his best. Guess basically the call was coming from inside the house. How long would dare me have been like how long would have been just hanging out there with him? Could it be like months? Could it be something that he had since like before we before the seven weeks that we've been

3 (48m 36s):
up here? Yes, you could be years really

1 (48m 40s):
years. It felt good and meant there was no hole in the armor. Although wiping the spraying. It was working. Everything was fine. Jeremy also felt good kinda

3 (48m 54s):
I think in some ways I might feel less relieved now because now it feels like it just lives in me and then it's just where it's just it's just always there waiting to try to go mate. We all are we all have the same bacteria, but it's coming after me.

1 (49m 18s):
I have a small confession to make when Jeremy first told me he felt sick. Honestly, I didn't really believe him I loved him but I thought he was just tired turns out he was right. He was sick. It was real. So here you go Jeremy you were right. Sorry, love.

3 (49m 48s):
Nadia Raymond is one of the producers of our

1 (49m 50s):
show.

3 (50m 15s):
At four I'm happy accident. So we end our show today with a story from our Archive of somebody stuck in a momentary difficult situation that comes from ?dgar carrot. The story is All true. It happens in Israel where F gargoyles and was ready for us in English translation by actor Michael chernus. Thirty years. I'm a cabbie the small guy sitting behind the wheel tells me 30 years and not one accident. It's been almost an hour since I got into his taxi and Beersheba and he hasn't stopped talking for a second. Under different circumstances. I would tell him to shut up but I don't have the energy for that today under different circumstances. I wouldn't shell out three hundred fifty shekels to take a taxi to Tel Aviv.

3 (50m 55s):
I would take the train. But today I feel that I have to get home as early as I can. I spent last night at iki love hospital with my wife. She had a miscarriage and was bleeding heavily. We thought it would be okay till she passed out. It wasn't until we got to the emergency room that they told us that her life was in danger and gave her a blood.

1 (51m 15s):
Fusion

3 (51m 17s):
three days before that. My dad's doctors told me in my parents that the cancer at the base of his tongue which had been in remission for four years was back and the tumor was at such an advanced stage that the only way to fight. It was to remove his tongue and larynx. The oncologist said she didn't recommend having the surgery but my dad said that he was for it. The oncologist told him that the operation would leave him seriously handicapped unable to speak or eat at my age. My dad said all I need are my heart and my eyes so I can enjoy watching my grandchildren grow. When we left the room the doctor whispered to me try to talk to him.

3 (51m 58s):
She clearly doesn't know my dad. The taxi driver repeats for the hundredth time that in 30 years. He hasn't had a single accident and that all of a sudden five days ago his car kissed the bumper of the car in front of him traveling at 20 kilometers per hour. When they stopped and checked he saw that except for a scratch on the left side of the bumper. The other car hadn't really been damaged at all. He offered the other driver 200 shekels on the spot, but the driver insisted that they exchange insurance information the next day the driver a Russian asked him to come to a garage and he and the owner probably a friend of his showed him a huge dent all the way on the other side of the car and said the damage was two thousand shekels.

3 (52m 46s):
The cab driver refused to pay and now the other guys insurance company was suing them. Don't worry. It'll be okay. I tell him in the hope that my words will make him stop talking for a minute. How will it be? Okay, he complains they're going to screw me. Those bastards are going to squeeze the money out of me. You see how unfair it is five days. I haven't slept you get what I'm saying. Stop thinking about it. I suggest try thinking about other things in your life. Happy things. I can't the cab driver groans and grimaces. It just can't then stop talking to me about it. I say keep on thinking and suffering but just don't tell me about it anymore.

3 (53m 28s):
Okay, it's not the money the taxi driver continues. Believe me yesterday. I want my son to the graves of the Saudi Keem. We bought blessings for eighteen hundred shekels, and I didn't mind paying it's the Injustice that gets me shut up. I say finally losing a just shut up for a minute. What are you yelling for? The cab driver asked consulted? I'm an old man. It's not nice. I'm yelling because my father is going to die. If they don't cut his tongue out of his mouth. I continue to yell. I'm yelling because my wife is in the hospital after a miscarriage. The drivers silent for the first time since I got into his taxi, and now I'm suddenly the one who can stop the stream of words. Let's Make a Deal I say get me to an ATM and I'll take out two thousand shekels and give it to you in exchange.

3 (54m 14s):
It'll be your father who has to have his tongue removed and your wife was lying in a hospital bed getting a blood transfusion after a miscarriage. The driver is still silent and now so am I I feel a little uncomfortable for having shouted at him but not uncomfortable enough to apologize. To avoid his eyes. I look out the window we missed the exit to Tel Aviv. I tell him that politely or I shouted angrily. I don't recall any more. He tells me not to worry. He doesn't really know the way but in a minute he'll find out. A few seconds later. He parks in the right lane of the highway after managing to convince another driver to stop.

3 (54m 56s):
He starts to get out of the taxi to ask for directions to Tel Aviv. You'll kill us both. I tell him you can't stop here 30 years. I'm a cabbie tosses back at me as he gets out of the taxi 30 years and not one accident alone in the cab. I can feel the tears Rising. I don't want to cry. I don't want to feel sorry for myself. I want to be positive like my dad. My wife is fine now and we already have a wonderful son. My dad survived the Holocaust that's not just a half-full glass. It's an overflowing one. I don't want to cry not in this taxi not next to this driver that I yelled at the tears are welling up and will soon begin to flow suddenly.

3 (55m 45s):
I hear a crashing boom and the sound of Windows breaking the world around me shatters a silver car veers across the next Lane completely smashed the taxi moves to but not on the ground it floats above it towards the concrete wall on. Side of the road after it hits there's another bang another car must have hit the

1 (56m 7s):
taxi.

3 (56m 15s):
A second before the ambulance drives away. They load the taxi driver into it deep in my heart. I was hoping they'd send us in separate ambulances, but it just wasn't my day the driver looking revitalized and happy lights a cigarette the paramedic. Where's the yarmulke and tells me I was very lucky an accident like that with no deaths is a miracle the minute you're discharged from the hospital. He says you should run to the nearest synagogue and give thanks for still being alive. My cell phone rings. It's my dad. He's only calling to ask how my day at the University was and whether the little one is asleep yet. I tell him that the little one is sleeping and my day at the University was great and she wrote. My wife is fine, too.

3 (56m 56s):
She just stepped into the shower. What's that noise? He asks an ambulance siren. I tell him try to sound casual one just passed by in the street, once five years ago when I was in Sicily with my wife and son. I called my dad to ask how he was. He said everything was fine in the background a voice on a loudspeaker was calling a dr. Schulman to the operating room. where are you I asked in the supermarket my dad said without a moment's hesitation they're announcing on the loudspeaker that someone lost her purse he sounded so convincing when he said that so confident and happy why are you crying my dad asks now from the other side of the line I force myself to smile hoping he can sense it too it's nothing I say is the ambulance stops next to the emergency ward in the paramedic slams the ambulance doors open really It's nothing Michael chernus meeting Story by Edgar carrot Echoes most recent collection of stories is called fly already and just this week the new TV series that he wrote and directed with his wife Shira Gaffin middleman premiered on television and France and Germany.

3 (58m 19s):
I have seen this show it is amazing. I hope he gets the United States soon. Well, my spiritual life I wanted for managing editor is sadder of the ramen and Aviva to kornfeld people put a show together day includes them out of uni on the baker menu Barry Susan Burton dinner to Bouchon call nor gilding and Grave. The CT Stone Nelson Captain Ramon Donati Raymond Robbins seminar was a ship will be Sullivan Crystal sitaram a tyranny and Julie Whitaker are other managing editor is Diane.

3 (59m 7s):
Whoo, executive editors David kestenbaum special. Thanks today to Harrison Nesbitt Alexei Horowitz Ghazi and Eileen Barry. I first read about Damon linkers column in the week by reading Andrew Sullivan's column in New York Magazine our website This American Life dot-org, you can stream our Archive of over 700 episodes for absolutely free during your life. Down or commute your central job as American lives to cover the public radio stations by PRX the public radio Exchange program note. This American life is now available on Spotify. That's right Spotify. So if that's where you like to go to the podcast or maybe you've been curious about trying Spotify out as a podcast player just search This American Life at Spotify follow our show page and you will get new episodes as soon as they come out.

3 (59m 53s):
Thanks, as always for all programs co-founder. Mr. Troy mallick ta you know before you begin, distinguished career in public broadcasting Tory Works an ice cream truck but I don't know man there were certain basics of the job I think he never got used to every single stop he would greet the customers crowding around the window exactly the same way you're just

1 (1h 0m 13s):
children I didn't expect you to be

3 (1h 0m 16s):
children I'm Ira Glass back next week for more stories This American Life This is our glass so last week our program This American Life when the very first Pulitzer Prize ever awarded to a radio show, you know, it's funny a whole other award. The Peabody Award was created in 1940 partly because the poachers would not give Awards to this newfangled medium called radio as we can our program.

3 (1h 0m 57s):
We play you the episode that we made that won that award tune in next week on a podcast from your local public radio station.