4 (1s):
Support for This American Life comes from

2 (2s):
Capital One with Eno the Capital One assistant that looks out for surprise credit card charges and helps if you need to fix them Dino another way, they're watching out for your money when you're not Capital One what's in your wallet see capitalone.com for details.

4 (20s):
Support for This American Life comes from

2 (22s):
Squarespace providing designer crafted templates mobile-friendly and e-commerce ready for a free trial of your new website. Visit squarespace.com American and enter American think it dream it make it with Squarespace. A quick warning. There are curse words that are unbeaten today's episode of the show. If you prefer a beeped version, you can find that at our website This American Life dot-org. Hey there, everybody Ira Glass here. So last week our program This American Life won a Pulitzer Prize. It was the very first Pulitzer ever awarded to a radio show or a podcast or audio journalism of any kind among broadcasters.

2 (1m 5s):
This was always kind of a sore point. I

4 (1m 7s):
have to say that the highest

2 (1m 9s):
award in journalism. The Pulitzer was off-limits to us. They would not consider us at all for any awards. In fact a whole other award the Peabody Award we started in 1940 as a prize for broadcasters and one of the reasons that it As was The broadcaster's Wanted their own version of the Pulitzer. So niggas say everybody here was very excited to get the award very excited to be the very first broadcasters to do this. And today we're going to replay the episode that one it first ran this past November about things happening at the Mexican border. And what we're going to do is we're going to play the original episode. I'm going to jump in here and there with updates, but mostly you're going to hear what we originally broadcast just FYI the stuff that we described happening at the border is pretty much all Still happening today even with covid-19 and what else you want to say the little boy that we start the show with we have a big update on him at the end of the show.

2 (2m 0s):
He is not at the border anymore and we talked to him about it this week. Anyway, I'm saying too much. Here's the show. Darwin's 9 it is a kid who I don't know people just give him stuff when you met my coworker Aviva. He was playing with a soccer ball. Somebody gave him eating a taco. Somebody else gave him Darwin's mom is explaining all this.

3 (2m 21s):
That's what my mama. Can you just describe what just happened what they want to be there. I've no idea. She says a man as you're talking about that people just give him things walk by and give you how much did he give you? Yeah. Wow, the espares 10 pesos it protected the why to give you that be

2 (2m 43s):
Bassam during give us a little shrug like yeah. What can I say

4 (2m 47s):
only humans? I guess I'll be in the morning

2 (2m 50s):
because he thought I was asking for a coin his mom says he's just sitting there eating

3 (2m 55s):
your like King of the camp is he's like and

4 (2m 58s):
real campamento. Yes. I am the king of the camp. He says,

2 (3m 3s):
Is it even sits there with Darwin's mom Elizabeth, he runs off for 15-20 minutes at a time and then returns with

4 (3m 9s):
cash. Hi youngmee. I'm Santo dios think

3 (3m 12s):
pink Darla

2 (3m 15s):
$5.00. She hugs him

3 (3m 17s):
like that believe. It's a cheap though.

2 (3m 20s):
Darwin runs to the tend to pull out all the money. He saved and Shir Hever $279 a huge wad of cash which for context the living in a makeshift tent camp in Matamoros, Mexico. Very with the border from Brownsville, Texas and I mean like immediately on the other side nestled against the US and the Rio Grande of the customs Office. You can see the big red arches the Border Station and so close over 2,500 people living here. Hoping to get asylum in the US Darwin and his mom came here from Honduras 279 bucks here is huge. Most people even the migrants who came with a little money saved. I've been here so long they spend it all our family sends his money his mom says that's families do that.

2 (4m 3s):
But he brings in so much more than they send

3 (4m 5s):
is inteligente stable.

2 (4m 8s):
He then follows Darwin as he walks from the tents to the long line of cars. It's waiting at the border to cross into the United States. He's a happy looking kid with neatly cut hair and a big smile really cute during gives a fist bump to the Fruit Stand guy got some and selling corn on the back say hello nods to the half-dozen other vendors working on remember he's nine. Well, yes one woman to the camp about him. She was like, oh, okay Moto the earthquake. So the finger in the are asking for one coin. He said that's move as for a quiet and then hopefully they'll give you

3 (4m 39s):
more than a coin.

2 (4m 41s):
In fact a car with three women waves him over the woman in the passenger seat rows down her window and hands him a dollar.

3 (4m 47s):
It has yes, nobody. Ah,

2 (4m 50s):
thanks bless you. Oh Cuban Easter

3 (4m 55s):
Beagle does I knew it from your

2 (4m 59s):
accent and she's like right you thought I was from Cuba and they laugh woman has his name and

3 (5m 4s):
Bowser she

2 (5m 6s):
says she likes his hair like your Harry says he reaches out to stroke her hair straight and blond like a her cuz it's pretty says she laughs and claps her hands. Look at what a flirt he ended up being my God. You have a girlfriend.

3 (5m 28s):
you you hey.

2 (5m 35s):
Darren wants to his mom's watching all this because of the dollar both of them and the thousands of other people camped here at the border to be clear the trying to follow the rules and enter the United States through a border station and formally apply for Asylum. It used to be you'd show up. If you pass the basic interview the most people did you'd wait in the US for your day in court, but now it's all different and the Trump administration's remain in Mexico policy you get turned back to weight in. Texaco this policy is still pretty new really kicked in full force this summer, but it's profound change with massive consequences. One of them the size of this Camp which didn't exist before President Trump and all across Mexico City's just on the other side of the Border there now tens of thousands of people according to the Department of Homeland Security stranded under this policy in shelters on the streets and an encampment like this one temporary.

2 (6m 35s):
Government without much of a plan for where or how they live once they got to Mexico this game for instance is totally improvised long rows of Scruffy blue and white and gray tense over 700 of them donated by do-gooder groups and churches in America. These are calm intense meant for weekend camping that designed for rain and directs on and cold for months at a time. There's no regular water supply here volunteer groups from Over the Border in Brownsville Hall in over 3,000 bottles of water each day and

3 (7m 5s):
You just a little

2 (7m 6s):
sixteen-ounce bottles like you would buy with your lunch at a fast food place. There's no proper sanitation. Just five toilets over 2,500 people have a porta potties which get precisely as gross as you would imagine the father's here when David Bach he's told me that when his eight-year-old daughter and he's the

3 (7m 24s):
bathroom. No pussy fondle think ordinarily would score Trevino is in opposition. Well, yeah, I have some money then all look and see if I can find her another bathroom to use but if there isn't any then I'll take her out into the woods is a mountain so that she can

4 (7m 42s):
you know, use it use the bathroom do her business and then we'll go down to the river to wash up.

3 (7m 46s):
But and honestly with the amount of people using them in five hours, they'll be totally full and people still keep on going to use them. Especially women gives you can imagine, you know, like there's a bunch of men out there in the woods that are used in the bathroom. They don't want to be surrounded by that.

2 (8m 6s):
Is a nurse at the camp named Helen Perry who runs a very small relief group with very Grand sounding name Global Response management was volunteer. She started a medical tent in the camp. I voted for the Battalion aid station situated to set up back when she was in the Army. Anyway, I mentioned all this to Helen that this father and daughter were going up in the woods just like oh, yeah, I knew

3 (8m 27s):
that. Yeah and then when it rains all that rainwater washes down there

4 (8m 33s):
or it washes into the hard spaces in the camp and they get you know infectious

3 (8m 37s):
diarrhea. So are you seeing a lot of infectious diarrhea? Yes.

4 (8m 42s):
Most everyone here has some form of

3 (8m 45s):
GI something or other,

4 (8m 47s):
you know different types of tapeworms and ringworms and and the problem is is that you treat it and then they come right back out and get it again

2 (8m 55s):
actually met L win because it was Helens first patient of the day, he and his daughter both had pinkeye for bathing in the Graham which is not clean balance trying to organize a fix for that.

4 (9m 6s):
So this is actually one of the areas that we're talking about bringing in a water purification system. So the Rio Grande is like right down there hola and so what we want to do is put in a water purification system right over here run run a hose out into the water. It'll suck up the water purify it and they'll have their own water

3 (9m 24s):
source, and and you're the one organizing this. Yeah, so not a government. No now the UN Nope, just you a person. I've never people that could be done water and I'm like no, but like I'll Google it. Let's say this is the thing that hit me

2 (9m 40s):
hardest in Matamoros. You have thousands people stuck there right on the border to Big government's United States and Mexico one of them, of course a lot richer than the other and nobody's looking after these people the food water and shelter except a bunch of volunteers who raised their hands and said we cannot ignore those.

3 (9m 60s):
This idea that animal voluntarios heaven and the

2 (10m 4s):
Indiana good afternoon. Today. We have volunteers from Indiana

4 (10m 9s):
Indianapolis from Indianapolis

3 (10m 12s):
goes

2 (10m 13s):
really

3 (10m 13s):
far off course he know but those theories to cook for you forget a lot of us

2 (10m 20s):
because we're all Brothers, right?

3 (10m 22s):
What if I mostly I see the grass. Yes, let's say thanks with a round of applause. Eight, very nice. Ladies

2 (10m 32s):
from Indiana and fluorescent green t-shirts start serving food out of aluminum foil trays food per thousand people it cost $1,900 which they raised back home in 20 dollar donations as a paid for their own flights and everything and oppressively competent group that calls itself team Brownsville started by a bunch of teachers all volunteer as organized as so different bunch of people shows up five nights a week with food as a pay for a modern Morris restaurant took over hundreds of breakfast each day.

3 (11m 0s):
Through today is fresh

2 (11m 1s):
but very north of the border and very plain slices of ham and cheese on white bread tangerines grapes, baby. Carrots everybody. We asked about the food though. It's bright enough to say how great it is

3 (11m 13s):
where Sarika

2 (11m 16s):
it tasty the sky tells the Viva

3 (11m 18s):
La Comida Rica Stacey, right? This is the woman. That's true.

2 (11m 24s):
Oh sure. Very tasty. She says soon as the Viva walks away The Interpreter who was with us with the day. Gabby Munoz over here is what happens next

3 (11m 34s):
afterwards like her friend like the guy I like the person's friend was like, what did she ask you and he's like, well, she asked me how good the food was and I said it was good. But what the fuck else was I supposed to say generally they tried to get the volunteers out of the camp by

2 (11m 47s):
Nightfall because Mount Morris isn't safe. The cartels are here city has one of the highest kidnapping rates in Mexico, according to the US state department. Its web page by Matamoros says murder carjacking and sexual assault. Common gang gun battles are widespread. Anybody here is at high risk. Not far from where they serve the food like just 20 feet or so from the actual Border Station woman named Jenny and her husband and her daughter set up their tent ask her if she chose that spot because it seemed like the safest Coast into the Border like that.

4 (12m 19s):
See in myself

2 (12m 21s):
said yes explained that she and her husband and daughter had been kidnapped last City

4 (12m 25s):
they were in way and I know sir. He said he assumed

3 (12m 29s):
it was in Reynosa and we were kidnapped for 15 days.

2 (12m 32s):
What up? Okay, it wasn't a story family and the cartel. The house they were held in but she does man quietly approaches and just kind of hovers nearby listening and she says atrocitus asset to us look behind you and covers your face.

3 (12m 53s):
Make a lot of this

2 (12m 56s):
can't talk about this he's

3 (12m 57s):
behind. The lead also

2 (13m 2s):
we switch the subject to goes away a journalist is in this camp Oh God confirmed that he was a cartel guy. How much violence are is against people in the camp is not clear. The nurse Helen Perry has heard about people being kidnapped from the camp. But this hard to confirm and she told me this story

3 (13m 19s):
when I first showed up in the camp

4 (13m 21s):
a woman came up to me and asked me if we would be bringing in condoms because when she got sexually assaulted again, she wanted to be able to

3 (13m 30s):
ask her attacker to wear a condom. So she wouldn't get pregnant

2 (13m 34s):
and a relief work Helen's been to lots of places where migrants and refugees. Stranded like this but the security issues here lack of predictable food and water sanitation five toilets with it should be a hundred twenty-five. No proper tense for people

3 (13m 50s):
when I first saw it. I was literally just dumbfounded because I've seen Refugee situations like this. I've been to Bangladesh I've seen Cox's

4 (13m 60s):
Bazar. I've been to Iraq. I've seen the IDP camps. I've seen the refugee camps from Syria I'd

3 (14m 5s):
say this is the worst. Yeah, I would definitely say that this is the worst

4 (14m 10s):
if at a bare minimum for a lack of humanitarian accountability for what's happening to these people

3 (14m 17s):
you mean that that nobody's keeping a count of who is here and who hasn't who goes in and who goes out he goes in he goes out who goes in the thing

2 (14m 24s):
the prepper refugee camp. She says like United Nations camp that have that a big tall fence. Somebody keeping track of who comes in and out when we asked Mexican officials about conditions in this Camp. They said they aren't helping the 2,500 people here. Because I don't want a permanent Tent City in the spot. They want people to move to government shelters. I mean I had Nation said they want step in as the Mexican Government invites them to step in United States whose policies landed people here in the first place has also donated five million dollars to house them in Mexico. Maya doesn't go to tent camps like this one, but two the official Mexican government shelters to enough money to shelter 8,000 people. But we sent way more people than that back across the border over 57,000 under the remain in Mexico policy plus another 21,000 to immigration officials.

2 (15m 14s):
Haven't even begun to process. We've told them systems backed up should sit in a waiting list stay in Mexico. I will get your cases in a few months. These are mostly people who in the past before President Trump would have been allowed into the United States to wait for their Asylum court dates here. It's so many People are pushing back across the border resulting in refugee camps that we don't call refugee camps right on our country's doorstep today. We try to understand what this new policy means for the people. We sent across the border. We also hear from us officials who sent them there or not feeling so great about it themselves from WBEZ Chicago says American life.

2 (15m 54s):
I'm Ira Glass stay with us that wine. Goodbye Stranger. So like I said at the top of the program Today's show was first broadcast in November and we are rerunning it today because it just won the Pulitzer Prize. This is one of the spots on jumping into the original broadcast to say the president's policies at the border have only intensified since we first broadcast this show since covid-19 in March the administration shut down the border to all Asylum Seekers Asylum hearings aren't going to resume until late June those things possible that even that date is going to get pushed back when I first broadcast. Program one of the things that we were especially interested in was the US officials on the front lines whose job under remain in Mexico is to send people back.

2 (16m 42s):
Lots of them were resigning saying no, that's actually not my job Los Angeles Times Reporter Maui O'Toole talk to a bunch of them and here is the version of the story that we ran in the fall.

4 (16m 54s):
Before the remain in Mexico policy began and upended the Asylum system and completely change what it is to be an asylum officer. Here's how the job used to work. When a Central American showed up at the u.s. Mexico border and said, let me in. I'm afraid of going back to my country. That's where the Asylum officer came in the officer did something called a credible fear screening to check if the person was likely to face harm or death if the u.s. Sent them back home if there's even a chance that they would The Asylum officer would let them into the United States to wait for a court date where an immigration judge would make the final call Doug Stevens says people don't understand how hard the job is at the time all this started.

4 (17m 37s):
He was an asylum officer in San Francisco

2 (17m 40s):
inside have people come into my office and my job essentially is tell me the worst things that have happened to you you have an hour ago, and then I'll decide if you told me the truth and I'll decide if you get to stay you are expected to be Be or really to do the job. Well need to be

4 (17m 57s):
an

2 (17m 58s):
expert in the political cultural social and economic situations in innumerable countries around the world and you're expected to be a human lie detector all at once.

4 (18m 15s):
President Trump talks about Asylum itself as if it's fraud. He says it's a hoax a big fat con job that people come in with fake Asylum claims that Asylum officers just let everyone through and then asylum-seekers never show up for their day in court that it's a border wide 2,000 mile loop hole. And it's true the most people do pass that first step with an asylum officer and enter the United States, but there's a good reason for that. It's built into u.s. Asylum law a common-sense humanitarian idea. We don't want to send people back to situations where they'd get tortured or killed. The legal term is non-refoulement. And so US law set the bar low if there's basically any chance an asylum Seeker could get killed or harmed the officer supposed to let them into the u.s.

4 (19m 3s):
Doesn't need a lot of proof or evidence at that point later when they get before an immigration judge. And by the way, the majority do show up there, they need proof and most of them get rejected. Even before President Trump took office less than 15% per year. God Asylum. That's because most people don't meet the specific criteria in the law or don't have enough evidence or it doesn't check out all the Asylum officers I've ever spoken with see it as their job to weed out the fakers the people who don't really need protection the ones who are just trying to game the system. Oh my God, like here's where I'm gonna be real with you.

4 (19m 43s):
This is an asylum officer. We are calling Ursula. This is

3 (19m 47s):
Her

4 (19m 47s):
voice, she's afraid of getting fired. So we had an actor copy what she said as closely as possible. The fraud hat is like happening on a scale that that's huge. We're talking like hundreds of people a month. I interviewed three Asylum officers for this story in all three said the groups that have been the primary target of President Trump's immigration policies. They actually aren't the main ones committing fraud. It's not the central Americans. It's not the Middle Eastern people. It is the Indian people and the Chinese people they all have the same bullshit story about getting beaten with hockey sticks three times because they're part of a Sikh party and the police told them they're going to jail them if they ever Bad mouth the ruling party ever again bullshit just happy they all just happen to do the same thing in suffer the same fate even though there's absolutely no confirmation in any media that any of this persecution is happening and studies done by our Department of State counterparts in the country are straight up like this is not a real thing.

4 (20m 57s):
The Chinese are running a similar scam with Christian

2 (20m 60s):
claims.

4 (21m 7s):
In the fall of 2018 Asylum officers started hearing about these big changes coming the policy that was first called remain in Mexico and then later Mike and protection protocols MPP, but the Asylum officers who are going to have to implement this thing. They didn't know any of the details of how they were supposed to do it. It was all shrouded in so much secrecy. This is another Asylum officer. We're calling her an were used an actor here, too. tector identity over the next few weeks and starts picking up around the office and some of her colleagues were being called in quietly and asked to go to the Border in San Diego and instead of the credible fear screenings. They'd always done they seem to be doing something entirely different under MPP a whole new kind of interview with different rules.

4 (21m 55s):
She knew she was going to have to start doing them too. So she pulled aside a co-worker who'd already been sent to the Border. I was asking her. Hey, like what's what's the training? Like? What is this? And she was like, I'm not allowed to talk to you about it. Another Asylum off. Yeah, is that the one who you'd like consider a friend or just sort of like professional colleague good colleague good colleague someone that we had mutual trust for sure and then was told was brought in by a supervisor. Like a special brief about about it before I was going to start doing these interviews and was told here's the skinny on it and don't tell anyone. Why?

4 (22m 37s):
Because I think they knew that it was legally dubious and suspect and they wanted to keep the the leak to a minimum the leak being a major policy roll out that was going to change Asylum. Yeah, that's really that's the week. Yeah, two months go by before they do a formal training

3 (22m 57s):
session with the full Asylum core

4 (22m 60s):
and it's just a PowerPoint. Here's our select gun hands were going up and being like wait. How is this legal?

3 (23m 7s):
Our how are we going to be doing this? And how do we know how this works?

4 (23m 11s):
All three of these item officers? I talked to said that the presentation left them with lots of questions including the biggest one. How is this legal these officers knew better than almost anyone how dangerous Mexico is and this policy seemed designed to send tons of people back to Mexico. It seemed to be in direct contradiction with us Asylum law, which says that at the very least we can't send people back to a situation where they get Harmed or killed we can't violate the principle of non-refoulement and the response was like, I'm just the messenger bringing this down from HQ. And this is the PowerPoint. They gave us I was like well if you don't even care about Double-checking that this is legal and you're just the messenger as you say, you're a fucking asshole, you know, all three officers say they raised concerns and got roughly the same response.

4 (24m 7s):
Just get out there and do your job what they found out soon enough was just how radical had changed the new MPP interviews were from the old credible fear screenings. For starters not everyone would get an interview only the people who volunteered that they were scared to go back to Mexico would if they got an interview under MPP Asylum Seekers would have to prove that they'd be harmed in Mexico not their home country and not just any harm. They can't just be threatened by gangs or the police. They have to be threatened by gangs or police or whoever because of some very specific reasons laid out in US law because of their nationality race religion politics or I'm part of a particular social group like lgbtq and they'd have to show that The Mexican government like a cop or an official was unable or unwilling to protect them and the Asylum Seeker couldn't just say all this happened.

4 (25m 1s):
Like they could under credible fear screenings. Now, they need to prove it. It's like as Asylum Seekers were traveling through Mexico fleeing for their lives. They should have been Gathering evidence of all the screwed up things happening to them. They're making a paper trail. And they should have had all of this evidence on them, right then right after crossing the border which of course is next to Impossible, especially because they had no idea any of this was

1 (25m 28s):
required

4 (25m 30s):
Doug Saul is happening and wanted nothing to do with it. So we tried to keep his head down to try and avoid having to do these interviews hoping the course would kill MPP.

1 (25m 40s):
But they didn't

4 (25m 42s):
by June MPP returns have skyrocketed and it was all hands on deck for the Asylum core. Doug couldn't Dodge it anymore and I got the email it said you're doing MPP interviews today.

2 (25m 55s):
So I had a father and son son. I think was preteens 11 or 12. They fling on under us because of violence and other problems didn't talk about that much because it doesn't matter for the purpose of MPP right? I'm focused only on why they're afraid to go back to

4 (26m 17s):
Mexico. Of course the guy and his son don't understand why they're even talking about Mexico. They don't understand any of this at all. the interview

2 (26m 27s):
continued so he had tried to find a place to live there had tried to get a work permit in Mexico and was essentially denied and as their transiting is talking

4 (26m 41s):
about You know, encountering cartels

2 (26m 47s):
and witnessing other migrants

4 (26m 52s):
being murdered and tortured in front of

2 (26m 55s):
son. And fleeing and barely getting away, you know while death threats are being shouted at him.

4 (27m 4s):
And you know talking about his son having

2 (27m 7s):
nightmares for weeks because of

1 (27m 9s):
us.

2 (27m 11s):
and then they get stopped by the police. And the police take all of their money their cell phones. And because I can't get them to say these magic words like yeah, they threaten me because I'm

3 (27m 27s):
Honduran but that's all they had to say, but they don't know that

2 (27m 31s):
right.

4 (27m 33s):
Because I'm Honduran those would be the magic words that we put them in a protected category. They were targeted because of their nationality though, even if the father had said because I'm Honduran. They probably still would have been sent back to Mexico because odds are he didn't have any evidence proving that any of this happened Doug. He did with a policy told him to do he sent them back to Mexico. The old credible fear screenings usually took an hour or less these MPP interviews can last for five six hours.

4 (28m 16s):
When I asked these Asylum officers to describe what these interviews are like for them for the migrants in front of them Ursula gave the most Vivid picture. She told me about the very first NPP interview. She did a family from El Salvador two parents and two kids. She had a script C at this Tech to the family was exhausted and traumatized and totally unprepared. You're put into a cell you're separated from your kids and your wife. You have no idea what's going on because you thought today you were going to be interviewed about El Salvador and you were going to get to enter the United States a couple hours later. They lead you into this freezing cold cell where they chain your hands to a table in hand.

4 (29m 2s):
Laughs and someone is sitting across from you who doesn't speak your language and starts talking to someone in the phone who starts translating to you that you're going to talk about Mexico. You smell like shit because you've been living in a shelter, you know without any running water for a month and a half plus you've traveled all the way across Central America to get there and you don't understand why someone is talking to you about Mexico. This interview goes on for an hour and a half and the person keeps pausing it so they can talk to someone on the computer which they say is their supervisor and another guard leaves your wife in that you haven't seen in the last 12 hours into the interview room and you can you know brush her hand as she passes by you're so happy to see her because you've been separated and you have no idea what's going on.

4 (29m 58s):
So where are my children? I don't know sir. I'm sure they'll be fine. Your wife goes through a similar interview, but she keeps being confronted about the answer. She's giving because they're different from yours and the officer can understand why this story varies so differently between two people who experienced it half an hour passes before her children are brought into the room and then the officer has to talk to a ten-year-old boy about whatever his parents said and then confront the 10 year old boy on inconsistencies between In his story and his parents story and then the wife is like when am I going to see my husband again the officers?

4 (30m 38s):
Like I have no idea let them know if you need to use the bathroom Earth will made the case that the family shouldn't get sent back to Mexico and to her shock her supervisor agreed. In fact, she happened to walk outside the moment the family got released. They've got their backpacks on they're holding hands. She thought maybe this won't be so bad, but that was the last time The very next interview a woman told her over and over she was afraid of being raped and killed in Mexico Ursula believed she was going back to a place where that was very possible. But because the woman couldn't name a specific person who desalter Ursula had to send her back since then.

4 (31m 19s):
It's essentially been no laughter. No laughter. No, Asylum officers told me that even when they find one of those unicorn cases where they check off all the boxes and recommend not returning to Mexico their supervisors overrule them. And told me and my producer Nadia Raymond about one Asylum Seekers case where their attacker even spelled out their motive and it still didn't fly. It was basically a situation where there was a really clear connection to the nationality like the persecutor had like really sad like I am harming you because of this nationality and your nationality and the harm was really really severe.

4 (32m 3s):
Was like definitely torture and it was really clear that the police like weren't going to do a thing about it didn't care at all. And the supervisor rejected it. Why did they say why they said we can't show that if this individual went back to Mexico the persecutor would be able to locate them. So the standard today is upside down from what it used to be in a credible fear instead of let's err on the side of letting people in because we don't want anyone to be tortured or die under MPP. The standard is almost impossibly high. So almost nobody gets in the Department of Homeland Security says only about 960 people interviewed have not been sent back to Mexico ultimately of a little more than 47,000 MPP cases registered as of October with about Seven thousand of those still pending of those only 11 people have been granted Asylum or some other kind of relief according to Syracuse University which tracks all this using government statistics 11, and that's what the policy was meant to do the administration credits MPP for a Sharp drop in the numbers coming to the Border Mark Morgan the acting head of Customs and Border Protection calls it a game changer and absolutely

2 (33m 23s):
successful.

4 (33m 29s):
It only took Doug two days and five interviews to go home after work and pull out the law

2 (33m 34s):
books. He's a lawyer.

4 (33m 36s):
He actually owned a beat-up copy of the immigration and nationality act. The law hundreds of pages long that makes up the foundation of the u.s. Immigration system. He grabbed that off his bedroom shelf along with a few of his other books from law school. He printed out a bunch of court cases and Supreme Court decisions with more cases pulled up on his computer screen. In the middle of all of this was his pain and white legal PAD as an attorney. He wanted to get his feelings about MPP how much worse had felt compared to everything else they did down in writing he worked for hours and he wrote down seven bullet points. The main ways. He thought MPP was illegal. Once he saw the list laid out there on the line Dwight paper, Doug knew what to do the next day.

4 (34m 21s):
He went to tell his supervisor. He wasn't going to do any more MPP

2 (34m 24s):
interviews. His response was I know these interviews are Hardware all required to do them. That's why we're trying to spread it out. It's you know, a rolling basis etcetera Etc and you know at that point

3 (34m 41s):
There's like this this moment where I

2 (34m 43s):
could I could have just said you're right. I know the socks and gone back and I paused and I told him you'd understand. I'm not doing these interviews. Anyway, he's like what do you mean you're not doing these interviews and I was like no I was like, I think they're legal to definitely a moral and I'm not doing

4 (35m 10s):
them. His boss was stunned. He didn't really seem to know what to say eventually he told him he was probably going to have to write him up somehow to start disciplinary proceedings Doug went home that night and decided to escalate he went back to his legal pad.

2 (35m 27s):
I essentially right Legal memo explaining all of the reasons that I thought it was illegal and why is refusing to do it? And then on that Monday, I emailed that to all of the administration in San Francisco and the two supervisors that were involved and the disciplinary proceedings

4 (35m 48s):
and then nothing nothing happened instead of sparking some kind of rebellion, or at least forcing a confrontation. It's crickets. So we took It a step further. He sent his memo to a senator's office. Then he dropped his goodbye email attached is my mouth and sent it out office-wide to all of San Francisco Asylum about 80 people and to a representative of the union for Asylum officers across the country and with that Doug shut down his work computer and walked out. He quit

2 (36m 21s):
they make one change and everyone in the office is like, oh this is terrible, but we'll figure it out and then make another change. This is terrible. But but I need my job. I'm going to do it even if I don't want to and I'll complain about it. I'll complain about the work and I'll complain about the hours the end of the day. I'm going to do it and the more I do it the easier it is to do and

4 (36m 43s):
that is terrifying. I mean,

3 (36m 45s):
that's how all the awful things in the world have happened.

2 (36m 49s):
That's how you get so many good people doing really bad things and that's what's happening.

4 (36m 57s):
And it's terrifying.

2 (36m 59s):
You're like literally sending people back to be raped and killed. That's what this.

4 (37m 11s):
The three officers I spoke with Are Not Alone a union representing the Asylum officers and USCIS employees filed a brief in a lawsuit against the administration arguing that MPP was illegal and a ton of officers

2 (37m 24s):
are quitting.

4 (37m 26s):
I've heard this from a bunch of people in the Asylum core and that citizenship and Immigration Services the parent agency several use the word Exodus and if officers can't quit they're calling in sick anything they can do to avoid MPP interviews. We try to get some numbers from the government. They wouldn't tell us how many people had left. They did say that by the end of the year. They hope to have 771 Asylum officers. But as of a month ago, they had something like 550 meaning they're roughly 200 people short. I tried to get an interview with the acting head of USC is Ken cuccinelli to talk about all this he's since been named Deputy Homeland Security secretary.

4 (38m 8s):
He didn't give us one but I did get one question in it was at a press breakfast. So this audio was recorded on my phone

2 (38m 15s):
Molly O'Toole

3 (38m 16s):
from how do you answer the concerns from some of

4 (38m 22s):
your Asylum officers their concerns that many of these policies being handed down by the Trump Administration? In particularly targeting Asylum are in fact illegal that they're being ordered to implement policies that are under direct contradiction with immigration laws that are passed by

3 (38m 39s):
Congress. Well, they're not in direct contradiction or we wouldn't be utilizing

2 (38m 43s):
them. We have

3 (38m 44s):
19,000 people that work with USCIS. I don't expect any two of us to completely agree on all of this, but I do expect that the professional employees at USCIS will Implement them. Policies in place. They're part of the are part of the executive branch.

4 (39m 1s):
He said and so long as we're in the position of putting in place, but we believe to be legal policies that haven't been found to be. Otherwise, we fully expect them to implement those faithfully and sincerely and

3 (39m 13s):
vigorously

4 (39m 22s):
now, we're just shy of MVPs first birthday after chaotic start. It's thousands returned each It's expanded all the way east across the u.s. Border from California to Texas Gulf Coast and it's not just Central Americans being pushed back. Now, it's Cubans Venezuelans pregnant women lgbtq Asylum, at least at the southern border has essentially ground to a halt. Here's an I'll say this like the administration's been successful. What do you mean? They want negative decisions. They don't want Asylum seekers in this country. They don't want people to get positive decisions or determinations for Asylum.

4 (40m 6s):
They have felt that the standards for screening interviews were too low and they wanted those standards changed and those standards raised and they succeeded What do you think the administration's end goal is and where people from shithole countries. And there's up in the shower almost every day. She has recurring nightmares. She says she can't focus can't sleep. She thinks about the people she's returned to Mexico all the time. It's nearly a hundred but there's one family in particular that she can't stop thinking about a father and son. Why do you think that case sticks with you?

4 (40m 50s):
Kid was really young. What happened to him? That it could get kidnapped. He get murdered. It's happening. It's happening a lot. What was that? And then what's my moral culpability in that? I interviewed that case and my signatures on that paperwork and that's something now that I live with. So yeah, I feel.

4 (41m 31s):
I feel in some ways that this administration's made me human rights abuser. The irony of this policy is that under our Asylum law to qualify for Asylum. You have to have been harmed because you're part of a particular group a certain class of people. And the way that the Asylum officers have implemented MPP they've created exactly that a huge group of people in need of protection about 60 thousand migrants forced by the us back to Mexico to be preyed upon their as they wait on their request for safety in the US. It's exactly the sort of situation that our law was supposed to prevent.

4 (42m 11s):
One Asylum officer told me it's the first time that we've been asked to affirmatively do harm to people you're not just saying I don't think you're eligible. You're literally saying I believe what you're saying. I think you're in danger. Go back to that danger

2 (42m 36s):
Ali O'Toole covers immigration for the Los Angeles Times sure to print version of this story also. Is that their website by the way in the wake of her story USCIS started a hunt to figure out who talked to her and to us and issued warnings to Asylum agents not to speak with the Press about what is happening inside the agency coming up with sound like when the cartels get on the phone and bargain with your family for your life. We have recordings. That's in a minute. I'm just gonna grab a bag radio when our program continues support for This American Life comes from Capital One Capital One Knows life doesn't alert you about your credit card.

2 (43m 16s):
That's why they created Eno the Capital One assistant that looks out for surprise credit card charges, like overtipping duplicate charges or potential fraud then sends an alert to your phone and helps if you need to fix them

4 (43m 28s):
another way, they're watching out for your money when you're not Capital One what's in your wallet

2 (43m 34s):
see capitalone.com for details. Support for This American Life comes from Squarespace create a website to Showcase your work publish new content or announce your upcoming events or performances and make it stand out with designer crafted templates that are e-commerce ready

4 (43m 51s):
and all mobile-friendly

2 (43m 53s):
right out of the box

4 (43m 54s):
start your free trial and receive a special

2 (43m 56s):
offer on your first purchase at squarespace.com / American and use promo code American a dream is just a great idea. That doesn't have a website. It yet make it a reality with Squarespace. This American Life Myra glass today in our program the out crowd stories about the people the tens of thousands of them who have been pushed into Mexico by the president's remain in Mexico policy and other policies we're talking about what happens to those people as they wait in Mexico for months where we running this episode today because it just won the first Pulitzer ever given for audio journalism in the posters hundred plus year history and we have arrived at Act 2 of our program act two is about the danger that these Asylum Seekers face.

2 (44m 40s):
When they're sent back to Mexico back to take the long way home if you had to pick which Border City of Mexico is the most dangerous the way we will raid. Oh right across the border from Laredo Texas would be a good Contender State Department classifies it as level for threat. That is the same Threat Level as Iraq and Syria and a lot of danger there is kidnapping. Can I pick is so prevalent there that one of our producers meant men and a migrant shelter who are terrified to go outside. I am Cuban guy told her Just putting one foot outside the shelter make some worried trip of just two minutes. He's looking all around and he's scared. We're interested in these kidnappings because they're so common reporter.

2 (45m 20s):
Emily green went to Nuevo Laredo and August. Jesse's story about one kidnapping and what happened to one family including recordings and details you really never get to hear Sam. We ended up in the web of Laredo because of MPP Here's

4 (45m 34s):
Emily. This guy who got kidnapped. I met him by chance actually before he got kidnapped and he told me how scared he was that he would get kidnapped.

3 (45m 46s):
I was on a bridge and we will let it go that

4 (45m 48s):
connects to Mexico to the US every day around 1 p.m. That month the US was sending back migrants from the US side to Mexico under MPP that day there were a hundred of them. They were easy to spot they all carried clear plastic bags with a couple of documents in them. And none of them had shoelaces u.s. Immigration takes shoelaces from anyone that detain most of them. Men, many of them with our heads

3 (46m 16s):
down and one pair of stands out to me

4 (46m 18s):
a father and son and matching polo shirts both of them sweating in the Heat their chubby soft phases that has his arm around son. They seem like they'll talk to me the man. I'll call him David quickly tells me a story.

3 (46m 40s):
He says he's not a criminal. He's a person who's

4 (46m 42s):
always made a living, but he can't Live in his

3 (46m 45s):
country anymore.

4 (46m 46s):
They're from Honduras. David was a businessman. He ran a little clothing store the Gangstar demand money. They call it a war tax the tax kept getting higher and higher until David's family couldn't pay it anymore one night the cartel broke into his house threatened to rape his daughter and so they fled

3 (47m 9s):
I've done lots of interviews with people like

4 (47m 11s):
David migrants and really difficult situations. This one felt especially hard. I think just seeing a father fall apart in front of his 11 year old son in

3 (47m 21s):
milkovic, which our own solo day. Donald says he wanted to ask for

4 (47m 29s):
asylum in the US but the agents didn't listen to him. They just gave him documents to come back to a court date in December. He

3 (47m 37s):
Can't go back to Honduras. He says nothing but one day you're not a model. No tengo. Dinero. No said no, I don't have anywhere to go. I don't have anything. I don't have money. He says they say that here were being sent a lot of people get

4 (47m 57s):
kidnapped and I don't know what to do.

2 (48m 5s):
We only

4 (48m 5s):
talked for ten minutes. And I ended up lending him my phone. He called his sister New Jersey and explained what happened that he made it to the United States only to be sent back to Mexico. It was getting dark out and I'd been told not to stay in the wave a little past dusk across back into the u.s. To go to dinner. Probably not a mile away from where I last seen David and my phone rang it was David sister. I'll call her Lauda. She had my number because it was my phone. He called her from earlier today. She was crying so hard I struggle to understand what she was saying. She tells me David and his son have been kidnapped just hours after I left them.

4 (48m 47s):
So you've gotten a call from the cartel demanding Ransom? The cartel told her the ransom was nine thousand dollars for David in another 9,000 first son. So 18,000 total. They put David on the phone briefly. So she knew he was alive and then the kidnappers got on. And I told them where in the world are we going to get this money the man on the other end told her she had to get the money. He said he'd call back tomorrow. I asked out a to record the phone calls my mom and she did when they called the next day.

4 (49m 32s):
She put them on speaker and he's the

3 (49m 33s):
relatives phone to shoot video of it. I cannot and will not be another man. And then I'm adding I don't want you to be nervous. They tell

4 (49m 45s):
her I need you to deposit the money as soon as possible be a hitha be a heat. That means old lady Lauda is 38. She tells them again that she has no money that she's sick from anxiety in her conversations with me. Lauda is scared crying, but when she talks to the kidnappers, she holds it together. Either she asked if David and his son are okay the kidnappers tell her they have food that they can bathe for now each call only lasts a few

3 (50m 16s):
minutes.

4 (50m 28s):
By the third day the cartel has lowered the price to $5,000 each for David and his son now the works the night shift at a printing Factory in New Jersey hardly makes twenty thousand dollars in a year plus. She's a

3 (50m 42s):
single mom in all of these calls the

4 (50m 48s):
kidnappers talk super fast. I'm guessing because we have other Ransom calls to make kidnappings a big business a volume business with a whole infrastructure kidnapping migrants has been common in Mexico for a long time what's different now is that the u.s. Is making it especially easy for the cartels to identify and snatch victims. They're sending Asylum Seekers back in big groups all at once same time each day, and they're easy to identify with their plastic bags and missing shoe laces Homeland Security didn't respond to my request for On the kidnapping situation, but this week the acting head of Customs and Border Protection.

4 (51m 29s):
So the u.s. Is quote sending a message to the criminal organizations to stop exploiting these migrants in Nuevo Laredo. The most dangerous part of these Asylum Seekers journey is probably the hours right after they've been sent back to Mexico after walking across the bridge. They're transported to the Mexican immigration office by Van outside the office men and 4-door trucks monitor. Who's Coming and going locals called them loss Milo's the bad guys one migrant told me about getting chased as he walked to a shelter from there. But by far the most dangerous place is a bus station. It's a place that go to escape Nuevo Laredo, but it's a place they end up getting caught kidnapping is so routine the cartels referred to it as passing through the office.

4 (52m 17s):
An extortion cause you can tell it's a well-oiled machine. It's methodical they sound like they're negotiating the price of a car. They do this all the

3 (52m 25s):
time louder turns to everyone to can

4 (52m 30s):
think of she goes to our local police department and to her mayor's office to ask for help. They reach out to the office of Senator Cory Booker. But by the time they get back to her about a week later, it's too late Lauda eventually scrape together money from her mom and sister. But just a fraction of what the cartel is asking

3 (52m 49s):
for which a joint that Yoda single meal

4 (52m 53s):
3000. Look. I've already pulled together $1,200 tell me what we're going to do and give me time to get the rest the man says he'll confer with his boss. In the meantime. He says she should wire the money Lauda asked to talk to her brother and they put him on.

3 (53m 10s):
Come on. No. No, I'm not a problem friend. She has studied. How are you brother

4 (53m 22s):
worried? He says she tells him don't worry that she's pulled together some money. The next day the cartels released David and his son. I talked to David on the phone three days after his release. He's so distressed. It's hard for him to finish the sentence.

3 (53m 42s):
Respira this pieta

4 (53m 47s):
breathe. I tell him I wanted to help him that's not something a reporter is supposed to say but back when they were kidnapped their lives were in immediate danger and I helped in small ways. I connected louder with an NGO in Mexico City that advocates for migrants since David and his son were released. I've suggested safe bus options the family they

3 (54m 10s):
always knew that I was a Porter doing a story on them, but they came to see me as one of the

4 (54m 14s):
few people that could trust that they could rely on loud. I called me almost every day with updates. She still does

3 (54m 27s):
a few weeks ago. I went to meet

4 (54m 28s):
David and his family and wanted a in northern Mexico where there are hold up. They were staying with an acquaintance of loud Us in exchange for

2 (54m 36s):
grocery money and help with construction.

4 (54m 39s):
David didn't want us to interviewing him there. He feels his welcome has run out. So we do the interview at our hotel. It's David his 11 year old son and his 19 year old daughter who's also been sent back to Mexico under NPP good as his I'm here with my producer Lena. We figure we'll talk to David in one room while the kids watch TV in the other but the kids sit by their dad on the bed. They won't leave one another side. I wanted to know what happened when I left him. That day on the bridge and what he described were all these details of how the cartels kidnapping business actually works. Once you're a victim on the inside details that were routine and also terrifying.

4 (55m 23s):
So here's what happened. He said he and the other hundred people who were sent back to Mexico that they were taken from the bridge to the local immigration office for processing after that. He says a man wearing a Mexican immigration officer uniform agreed. To take him and his son to the bus station so they could go to a safer City. But as soon as they got to the station, he got a bad feeling Gwendolyn three kamijo aluminum

2 (55m 49s):
when I went in with my son. This guy grabbed me was a tall guy Strong full of tattoos, so he grabbed me and he said I want to talk to you and I said I'd have nothing to talk to you about and he said you're gonna get into that car and we're gonna ask you some questions and I said no and he said you can get into the car the

3 (56m 9s):
Easy way or the hard way Polamalu Thurman Thomas.

4 (56m 12s):
He says at least a dozen migrants also arrived at the bus station that night and the cartel hustled them into different tracks. All the trucks were brand-new. He says he remembers that the one he got into was a gray Nissan and there were four or five other migrants in there with him. He says the immigration officer who drove him to the bus station sat in his car and watched them all being carted off. We can't confirm this but there There is a long history of law enforcement in the cartels working hand-in-hand. For example in 2011 seven top officials at Mexico's immigration agency were fired amid allegations that the agency was involved in the kidnapping of migrants and it squares with what his sister New Jersey told me she wired money to that immigration officer for the beads bus ticket and when she got the ransom call the kidnappers told her to wire the money to that same account the one that immigration officer used she said something like isn't that the immigration officers account and they hung up I asked the Mexican immigration agency to respond they told me they have no knowledge of recent complaints of immigration officers turning migrants over to the

3 (57m 24s):
cartels

4 (57m 30s):
in the truck David held on to his son the kidnappers didn't speak alone ago the hook eye shadow Malacca Visa

2 (57m 37s):
the guy just told us to keep our heads down to stop looking at the sides and the guy who was driving us was keeping an eye on us and he was making sure we were not chatting they had the windows are rolled up and serve as I would

4 (57m 52s):
the truck drove around for a while but David suspect they were just going in circles the didn't actually travel very far They put up to a normal-looking house with a big gate inside the kidnappers use our cell phones to take pictures of David his son and the rest they interrogated David about where he's from his line of work how he got to the US and most importantly what family members he has there. It was like patient intake at a health clinic except for by a cartel. We talked about the cartels as organized crime, but I never imagined the bookkeeping they keep records and Photos of the migrants I kidnap and also who they

3 (58m 32s):
release. David says there were more than 20

4 (58m 35s):
migrants at the house the men and women slept in separate rooms during the day the kidnappers hit any the men who tried to look at the women the room David and his hand slapped in had one mattress. Everyone else slept on the floor at night David would lay on the

3 (58m 52s):
ground holding his son. Look at UIC has come across are going on in your friend. Connor is available.

2 (58m 59s):
I would lay down with him in the corner and I would hug my son that you're under Oh, no, they couldn't see you crying. But my tears were almost like falling

3 (59m 8s):
out lolly theory that look at what

2 (59m 11s):
hurt me the most Emily was that when this guy arrived the

3 (59m 14s):
balls, he would always

2 (59m 15s):
tell me that my son's organs were good for selling that she was in a good age that he was only 11 years old. Jealousy. I cannot help Rico Parra and my son wants heard the guys saying that his kidneys that his organs were good for selling and he was almost crying and I told him don't cried. But I was desperate

3 (59m 35s):
I said that out of you as David tells me the story his two kids are so sitting on the bed beside him. Neither of them is looking at anything in particular. They're just sitting there blankly. W also seems devoid of

4 (59m 49s):
emotion. He doesn't add all resemble the David from a few weeks ago. The one I talk to you right after his release now, his effect is completely

3 (59m 59s):
flat on the fourth day of his kidnapping one of the

4 (1h 0m 10s):
bosses woke David up and told him they'd reached a deal with his sister. They may

2 (1h 0m 15s):
behold. She said to me get up. Your son fat guy because today I'm going to release you guys because your sister already paid made a deposit

4 (1h 0m 23s):
not so low and so called. Makya the man told I beat if you talk to anyone police reporters, the cartel would come for him take his son and kill David the same man who kidnapped them in the first place draw them back to the bus station and bought them each a ticket W doesn't know what happened to the dozens of other people in the house. Most migrants who are kidnapped and released the cartel gives them a keyword. It's like a passcode that indicates the migrant has paid off the cartel so they aren't kidnapped again, but David isn't given one maybe because he hasn't paid a high enough Ransom. When we met David in Monterey, he didn't know what he was going to do on day one of the kidnapping the cartel had taken that bead in a sense immigration paperwork and they didn't give it back without that paperwork.

4 (1h 1m 15s):
He doesn't even know which day he supposed to show up in court. But even if he could figure it out, he told us he's too scared to return to Nuevo Laredo under MPP. He'd have to pass through the same Port of Entry to get to his hearing. What if we get kidnapped again? Yes last week I get a phone call from David the family. They've been staying with and Monterey wants them gone and he's lost hope in the Asylum process. He thinks they won't be listened to that. The hearing process is a lie. And in fact, he's right about how his case is likely to come out under this Administration.

4 (1h 1m 55s):
It's virtually impossible to gain Asylum based on gang violence, so that He's decided to take his family back to Honduras the country. They tried escaping in the first place. According to Homeland Security Zone statistics thousands of other families are making the same Choice.

2 (1h 2m 20s):
Emily green just reported on David for vice.com little update since we first ran this story David returned to Honduras and then his family script. Gather enough money to send him and his son to Spain or a cousin lives. They got to Spain just before the coronavirus hit they do not venture outside. So one last thing before we end today's programme when we were in the tent camp in Matamoros. I learned that the way that the remain in Mexico policy was working back then it applied to adults but if a kid would show up at the border without an adult the Border agents would have to let them into the United States. Darwin that nine-year-old who's the king of the camp you remember him from the beginning of the show he and his mom told her Viva back in November that they had talked about this about whether she should send him over alone to fend for himself

3 (1h 3m 8s):
you come on my mother left

2 (1h 3m 11s):
me as a mom. It's not that she doesn't love him. But if there's no way for them to go together just him alone.

3 (1h 3m 19s):
He didn't want that. No 4K when you look at that angle.

2 (1h 3m 24s):
No because the fear that I have

3 (1h 3m 27s):
I mean a lot better than

2 (1h 3m 28s):
I see you won't lose me. She says

3 (1h 3m 30s):
nothing like it

2 (1h 3m 35s):
my fear is that I'll lose my mom because they don't see their moms.

3 (1h 3m 39s):
Don't come as a parolee

2 (1h 3m 41s):
has never been separated from her. He says and she jumps in our love is inseparable. those November but just a few weeks after that his mom decided to send him over because the cartels had noticed him in the camp and tried to recruit him and they threatened him if he didn't sign up Aviva talk to him this week about what it was like to leave his mom and walk across the bridge to America without her

4 (1h 4m 7s):
when we three span is very sad mmm he broke my soul to Weaver

2 (1h 4m 16s):
when he made it to America Darwin was put into a shelter and then sent to live with a foster family in Michigan they traded him while he says like he was their own kid

4 (1h 4m 28s):
first day there I got a

2 (1h 4m 28s):
hamburger he lived with the second Foster family and

4 (1h 4m 32s):
then after three months he

2 (1h 4m 34s):
finally got what his mom was hoping for when she said him across he's living with his aunt has his own room who's with a cousin who's close to his age he don't have even that for his tenth birthday they had a party and begged him a big tres leches cake

4 (1h 4m 48s):
and that Iran is Task est?s contento robinho elano Styles news

2 (1h 4m 53s):
Darwin are you happy to have come to the United States

4 (1h 4m 56s):
equal

3 (1h 4m 58s):
to English

2 (1h 5m 2s):
yeah because I'm learning English little by little

4 (1h 5m 4s):
no be are espresso real killer take home to Mama you would never either stay with your mom

3 (1h 5m 17s):
chicken

2 (1h 5m 20s):
well, I really don't know what

3 (1h 5m 22s):
to Wendy I would have

4 (1h 5m 25s):
come porque why

3 (1h 5m 31s):
I don't know. No,

2 (1h 5m 35s):
no. No, I would have stayed with my

4 (1h 5m 36s):
mom

2 (1h 5m 41s):
cause she's all I have. These are my

3 (1h 5m 60s):
people this is a land where my forefathers lie. These are my people. In Brotherhood, we are Heirs of a Creed to live by a Creed that proclaims that by loved ones blood stains. This is my land and these are my people we're gonna miss produced today by

2 (1h 6m 32s):
Nadya Raymond with help from Aviva to kornfeld people put together to show includes on a baker Emmanuel Barry Susan Burton Ben Calhoun Zoe chased in it. Shiva shankara when he Dangerfield Damien Gray from shop Karis Jessica Lawson hot making me clean the seats these Stone Nelson Catherine raimondo been fair. When I was ship Louis Sullivan Crystal Sir Topham Hatt, Tierney and Nancy Updike additional production on this rear and by nor Gil I managing editor for today's show is Diane. Will you are executive editors David kestenbaum interpreters for today's show were Gabriella Munoz Catalina Maria Johnson, Daniel sure and Miriam issue Lena. Our fixer in Matamoros were journalists Vero carton has the voices of the Asylum officers in the first story of the show were performed by Maggie Siff and Betty Gilroy. Then by the way, you can see Maggie 7 billions and Betty Gilpin on the Netflix show glow special.

2 (1h 7m 14s):
Thanks today to Harrison Nesbit in a p/kaufmann Kimbrel Kelly Ronaldo a Arnold's Junior Kenji. Cazuca, Christopher Turpin William Dodson. Digit Shantae Russell. Di Lewis clay Boggs, Marine Meyer, Nick. Mauriello and Whitson Martin our website This American Life dot-org This American Life is to go to public radio stations by PRX. He public radio exchange support for This American Life comes from Amazon publishing with devoted and on Earth. Thriller by best-selling author Dean Koontz about a special boy and amazing dog and a man who's becoming an inhuman Terror only a force greater than evil can stop what's coming next read devoted by visiting amazon.com / devoted podcast.

2 (1h 7m 57s):
Thanks as always to our programs co-founder. Mr. Troy military, you know, he recently cook dinner for some friends who hate

4 (1h 8m 3s):
onions and anything in the onion family. They wanted to keep the the leaked to a minimum. And

2 (1h 8m 10s):
I'm Eric Glass back next week with more stories at This American Life.

3 (1h 8m 14s):
These are my people. These are the ones who will reach for the stars. These are my people.