2 (1s):
Support for This American Life comes from Capital One with Eno the Capital One assistant that looks out for surprise credit card charges and helps if you need to fix them Dino another way, they're watching out for your money when you're not Capital One what's in your wallet see capitalone.com for details. This is seen in the film. I Am Legend where okay so visitations over the only person left alive in New York is Will Smith, and he is not able to find traces of anyone else alive anywhere on Earth and every morning. He wakes up makes it up breakfast put some videos of The Today Show for back before the Earth was destroyed just you know to make the morning seemed normal.

2 (43s):
One of the sports fans on our staff. Matt was saying the other day that that is exactly what it's like today watching the constant replays of old Sports on television. He's watched the 2018 Stanley Cup the NBA Finals game 7 for 2013 and old Yankees came from 1978 the Masters last year the Tiger Woods won all that Corey from back when life was normal and sports was part of it part of the thrill of the Michael Jordan documentary The Last Dance was it wasn't just sports but a prime-time Sunday night sports event that you could move forward. And you can watch knowing other fans were watching and talk about and share memes just like the world used to be these two guys who write about college football Jason Kirk and Spencer Harbor at this thing that I love about the lack of sports in our world.

2 (1m 27s):
Today is a guys who normally spend over 50 hours a week on a slow week watching games and thinking about sports who these days like hungry man rating an empty kitchen pantry for any scrap of food. Every sordid watching old college games that they've seen before and live Korean baseball in the middle of the Night, the German soccer league Bundesliga Saturday morning. The choice was between Bundesliga and cornhole the American tailgate game where people throw sand bags at a a wooden plank. That's Jason here Spencer explaining what he's come to I yesterday put on for the edification of my kids and their larger education Ricky Steamboat versus Macho Man Randy Savage at WrestleMania is free and it's largely considered the It is wrestling match of all time.

2 (2m 16s):
And I realized that since I'm homeschooling my kids they had to see the important Classics of my culture the cannon the cannon. Yeah. No, I mean it really like we're joking, but we're not like canonical e there's a lot of controversy about what is in the cannon wrestling wise. No one disputes this special watching way fewer games and lockdown. Sometimes he says he's thought this actually might be better for him in some way to devote fewer hours to sports. Maybe maybe but it also makes me realize that the things I filled them with are much better. There's a lot of empty there's a lot there's a lot of empty space out there man. There's a lot of empty space in life and when somebody says, you know well now you can now you can fill it with something really meaningful.

2 (3m 1s):
Well you or or is that even an option? I think there's only so much meeting you can pack into the hours of a week. I think there's only so much productivity Within Person, I think that something by the way, this is forced me to confront. Anyway, they say these guys wrote about sports during these sports list months. It's called what were Sports the town of it is like people who live in tents surrounded by Rubble after a war remembering what it was like to live in houses looking back on their old lives, which only now they appreciate for what they were as I start to this way. I remember there were expensive commercials. I definitely remember expensive commercials being a part of live sports.

2 (3m 42s):
Art's I only noticed this when Sports on replay happened the ad for replay games are cheap very sad home generators car warranties bootleg tactical gear for things that shouldn't be tactical like car visors and hearing aids. Do you remember how back when they were supports? Each person had a list of teams. They strongly preferred to win like if the Portland Trail Blazers and Memphis Grizzlies squared off you and I would be a little bit happier about life if the Grizzlies were the In the one what was that all about other things they miss Phillies fans during things that were not normal for anybody. But Phillies fans spreadsheets is sports statistics for each game whose results then went into a spreadsheet for the whole season, which then went into a historical archive spreadsheet watching a for our game and walking away with one gift worthy moment.

2 (4m 33s):
They write felt like a version of sifting for gold but version in which the dirt itself is valuable. One cool thing. I remember about sports is watching people run fast in One Direction. It was fun to watch someone do this when unimpeded such as when Usain Bolt walked into a mall in church shoes or whatever and ran as fast as the fastest NFL player ever had but it was ten times as fun when someone was able to run really far while other people were trying to stop that person from running far also fun watching big people try to stop fast people from running. They write Sports a little chemistry Labs designed to run for hours. 19th centuries along the way producing countless things. Nobody could have predicted from the onset of cool otherworldly space place where people could completely depressurize for several hours and sometimes succumb to space Madness along the way when things went haywire.

2 (5m 25s):
Do you remember that part that part was like Apollo 13, like when your team starting safety went out with an injury, and they had to figure out how to play with ten Defenders and one guy who should have been going to law school instead of covering the other team's best receiver. That part was a problem. But a fun one to solve these problems very much belong to someone else despite us getting to invest feelings and whether they solved these problems or not caring about whether a mediocre general manager could finally figure out how to do Sports budgets. This was kind of like politics but in a fake World in which we didn't have to acknowledge politics can kill us. That was nice the whole passage in the essay where Spencer reminisce That the last live game he went to LSU and Clemson New Orleans.

2 (6m 13s):
They got oysters before the game and met a friend at a restaurant the next day to eat and talk football for hours. He writes. Do you hear all the Beats of an impossible World playing there? I do. I feel every little ping of a world that I've only missed four forty five days at this point like Cactus needles just pressing into the skin of a hovering hand. Jason sums it all up. Neatly with this for me. The thing that mattered most about sports is how they by Design did not matter. We built industrial complexes around them. But at heart they were about discovering which side had earned the right to shout the clear obscenities on any given day and then the following day. We would ReDiscover today on our program everybody who is yearning for sports right now in our Sports.

2 (7m 1s):
World we try to help with radio Methadone for your sports addiction somatic or to negative. We have sports stories from back before the lockdown back when professional sports was still a vital daily living Force. We relive the thrill of victory and the agony of defeat WBZ Chicago. It's This American Life. I'm Ira Glass stay with us. Like one Friday night flights. Okay. So let's begin with the story of people yearning for sports to begin again in a moment a few years back when nothing was normal at all businesses were shut down school is cancelled kids are stuck home.

2 (7m 47s):
This story happened right after Hurricane Katrina Two Towns, Mississippi. That's it. Right on the Gulf of Mexico Waveland and Bay st. Louis wave. When was pretty much wiped out in the hurricane most homes and businesses there were destroyed or severely damaged basing Louis only two Little better. Am I bad for the hurricane we broadcast our story about them. Most people still didn't have electricity couldn't drink water from the faucet. One of the first things they decided to bring back in before that other stuff football high school football one of our producers back then Lisa Pollock went down there in 2005 during those early weeks after Katrina. I put together this story the beihai Tigers played their first game of the season on the Friday before Katrina.

2 (8m 27s):
They be Hancock. Hi 30:14 After the Storm the Joe. Joke was that they gone undefeated? Everyone figured the season was over players were homeless. The high school was closed, but just days after the hurricane the Bay High coach Brandon From Prada started hearing from his players. They wanted to play football. They called a cell and sent text messages. They stopped him on the street. They wanted to play football. They wanted something that reminded them of what life was before the thing that a lot of them were saying is it only takes 11 and the play and that they no matter how many they had they wanted to do this. That was the only thing that they Had to look forward to you know, you wouldn't stay to school play without a school but football is different here.

2 (9m 8s):
Anyway in Bay st. Louis game day starts at 6:30 a.m. With a team breakfast at a church newspaper stories about the game are posted on the wall at school in the afternoon drummers from the band March through the hallways just before the pep rally strangers in town. Stop players to talk about that week's game. So even the school won't start again until November the coach called a meeting to try to restart the team. There were some challenges only 19 players showed up of the 70 who are on the team. They couldn't use the practice field since National Guardsmen were camping there their field house was destroyed and most of their equipment and it's their uniforms. We pulled up a few days after the storm just they had people running around in our jerseys and cleats and

1 (9m 52s):
throwing balls around and you

2 (9m 53s):
know, I guess it was Fathers and Sons or what? You saw people wearing a gear guys as football jerseys just like is like replacement clothes, right? Exactly and you know at considering the

1 (10m 4s):
circumstances, you know, I didn't get really upset about us just was like, well, I guess if they need some clothes they can go ahead and take them, you know. Saying there's a possibility there saying it's probably gonna be one of the most pet games we played ever.

2 (10m 24s):
It's game day. The Tigers very first game since hurricane Katrina one month after the storm and I flown to Mississippi where Tyler brush the team's quarterback is showing me around. There's not a lot to see just huge piles of wreckage and near the beach mile after mile of empty spaces where houses and buildings used to be After the hurricane Tyler's family left for a while move to Florida to town where they used to live. They got a nice house and Tyler began High School there. He was practicing with their football squad. He's going to be a starter there too. But then coach from product called Tyler says coming back here was a hard Choice

1 (10m 60s):
my dad. He originally didn't want me to come back. I mean he was pretty much against it, but he decided I mean he said that it was my decision. I mean I had to think about it a lot. I was nervous about coming back. I mean, I recognize the situation. I was in I knew what I was I was taking the chance if I came back here college teams might not see me play but I felt that I still need to come back though for whoever did come back.

2 (11m 35s):
It's quarterback. He didn't want to let the team

1 (11m 37s):
down. So now his family's living 15

2 (11m 39s):
miles away in Diamond Head and two of the team's other players whose families didn't return our living with them, too. This is a strange place to be a kid right now with no school. They spend their days doing cleanup work hauling out sheetrock and moving trees and debris. It's Bleak and boring. The favorite Hangouts are gone football is one of the few things they have left. We're actually pulling up to my house

1 (12m 3s):
now. This is pretty much nothing left my house. Stairs right here. We're right here leading up to

2 (12m 20s):
arm. The house they're completely gone. Literally all we are looking at are the wooden stilts that held up the house and the foundation which looks like it was lifted up from the ground. And I mean, there isn't even like stuff around like Furniture closer. We're all this. We're all the stuff go get some water just washed them up that way. Completely wiped out. There's nothing left. There's anybody in the in here need pants. You need Past come with me over at the football field the new uniforms arrived just in time a gift from a man in North Carolina and the kids line up while the coaches open the boxes.

2 (13m 2s):
The new jerseys are blue and white not blue and gold the school colors, but no one seems to care.

1 (13m 6s):
Hold on when I getting picky here just relax buddy. What do you need?

2 (13m 11s):
This isn't the team that used to be over half. The tiger still haven't come back to the coaches have filled out the roster with some new recruits a few seniors.

1 (13m 19s):
You

2 (13m 19s):
ever play football some freshman from the school's ninth grade team two guys from the Tigers arch rival st. Stanislaw. They canceled their season and to cap it all off Bad News Barrett style some scared looking 7th and 8th graders from the Junior High in all it's still just 29 players a long way from 70. Some of these kids are all but homeless sleeping on other families couches and Floors one linebackers living in a camper alone, his parents hours away. Also, he can play football. With everything these kids have been dealing with and everything. They've seen they seem genuinely relieved and excited to be here today putting on jerseys and lacing up cleats. Everybody's just anxious to play again to get things back to normal.

2 (13m 58s):
That's Trevor Adam a senior tight end and for him getting things back to normal means pretty much one thing. I'll low hitting people. That's I mean, there's no better feeling in the world. Just unloading on somebody. I mean even now dealing with all this you have an extra field warmth you get Just that exciting feeling about you know, hitting somebody there's no you can't explain it. Equally excited. It's frantic attempt greater. I think Brant might be one of the happiest kids I've ever met. He doesn't stop beaming even when he's talking about swimming through his flooded kitchen or living for weeks without Plumbing or power.

2 (14m 39s):
He moved to Texas to stay with a relative for a while but didn't stay long Texas was Greater by was real kind like scary kind. It was just like Like You Ever Seen

1 (14m 49s):
The Stepford Wives how everything's perfect. That's how it was. They were all

2 (14m 52s):
like Hi, how are you doing? Can I get you anything? Yeah clothes food. I'm like I'm fine. Now

1 (14m 60s):
does this feel like a normal couple hours before a game or does it feel different way

2 (15m 4s):
different one thing I'm going to miss four games the pregame meals. We

1 (15m 8s):
don't have it. Then pregame meals are good. All you can

2 (15m 12s):
eat what kind of food ah baked chicken with all these spices on it was so good

1 (15m 18s):
that was like a month ago. So if you like you've stay here this whole time what's their been to eat for you? Oh

2 (15m 24s):
three meals a day and Maris.

1 (15m 26s):
So what's an MRE tastes

2 (15m 28s):
like? Um, I tell you what number meal number 20 and meal number 22

1 (15m 33s):
x 20 spaghetti in

2 (15m 35s):
twenty-twos Jambalaya the best I told my Mama she's a step it up because that

1 (15m 40s):
stuff is

2 (15m 41s):
I'm going to start getting in Maurice just regular.

1 (15m 45s):
Alright. Hey

2 (15m 46s):
everybody right here where these guys are getting it. You're taking me or something. Let's go real quick. You can sit down and taking the either one. It's late afternoon now about an hour before the game. Everybody gathers around coach can Prada and he urges them to think about the past month when they get on the field tonight everything you have inside of you. Let it out all the aggravation the frustration having to get up and do all that junk you do every day because of this hurricane, let it all out right here play for your community. Okay? That's why you're here. Okay, some people can't be here play for the guys who can't Me here, too. Play for Bay st. Louis and waiver.

2 (16m 28s):
Does anybody have any questions? About anything offense defense special teams, Wok. What love you too Kyle? Of course, there's only so much loved one football team can take an hour later is the team gets ready to run onto the field the coach has this to say so forget all the kindness and niceness right now. All that junk go out there and get after their behinds. Do you understand

1 (16m 53s):
me? Yes,

2 (16m 55s):
we do want to win the football game. Okay

1 (16m 58s):
everybody Touch Somebody. Let's go. It's kind of hard to believe that out of the ruins of this town just down the street from gutted houses and buildings. This thing has appeared this movie Set perfect football game. It's dusk now with a pinkish sky and under the stadium light everything's kind of glowing and everyone showed up to play their part the cheerleaders the PA announcer the marching

2 (17m 28s):
band or what's left of it a single kid with a snare drum standing in the bleachers.

1 (17m 34s):
Please join me in singing the National Anthem the opposing team The Long Beach Bearcats line up on the other side of the field

2 (17m 41s):
the moment. I see them. My heart sinks a little not only are there twice as many of them. They just look so determined

1 (17m 47s):
assistant coach key sizes them up this way big they they came here on three buses. We need a minivan. Yeah

2 (17m 59s):
big difference and they don't have Junior High kids out there and we do

1 (18m 5s):
Not even the quarterbacks father expects the Tigers to win tonight. They're missing so many guys that they'll have to play they're good players

2 (18m 10s):
twice as much their starters will play offense and defense guys will wear

1 (18m 14s):
out the Tigers get off to a great start the first time they get the ball. They go on a drive that last half the first

2 (18m 25s):
quarter and ends with a touchdown on a six yard run by Robert. Labott. I watch Tyler passed the ball off to Robert knowing that Tyler pretty much means back to For this moment and that Robert who's living with him separated from his own family did to get out there go go go.

1 (19m 0s):
Here we go on the sidelines eight Tiger cheerleaders are

2 (19m 4s):
jumping around. It's more than half. The squad one tells me your uniform was the first thing she pack when a family evacuated when the girls aren't cheering the

1 (19m 12s):
Consulting this big elaborate chart. They set up in front of the bleachers flask the captain explains. This is our cheerless and we have 16 32 years on it and every year we just take it and we add more cigarettes, but okay. Like what's 3636 GMO go Tigers go and what 37:37 is GMO go go go. What's 28 go? Go Geo go Tigers go. There's some similarity. Yes. They're very the only the coaches are screwing up and down the field

2 (19m 50s):
improvising to fill in for the key players. They don't have swapping kids in and out Brant be Emery kid is getting Bounced out there so the coach pulled him aside. Hey

1 (19m 59s):
Brent my bad babe. I better baby. They put someone in there with a little more behind on them. Okay. I got manhandled by the rookie players come through with some surprises. For instance. It's a very same moment that the coaches are

2 (20m 11s):
grumbling to themselves about where exactly freshman Alan villalta is heading on the field. Villalta recovers a

1 (20m 16s):
fumble. Oh God, but a lot is on the way. Oh damn. He just made a play. By the end of the first half. It's tiger 7 bear cat six the job. Well good job. Um bleachers are pretty packed by now. And the thing I realized when I start talking to

2 (20m 37s):
people it is this is the first time this

1 (20m 39s):
town has gotten together since the hurricane one of the first people I meet Gary Yarborough doesn't even have a kid on the team. I've just out here. Just trying to say who's still here who still in town and visit with the other folks and kind of see who our bodies handling everything in dealing with everything. So the first time you're seeing a lot of folks in a while. I'll yes some of them. Yeah, because you know what the curfews and and nothing open in town. There's really no place to go to see anybody as I walk through the stands. The one thing people keep telling me is what a normal night. This is what a relief it is to do something normal again to talk to anyone for more than a couple minutes and what you here next is just how far from normal everything

2 (21m 18s):
is they're worried about flood insurance and FEMA trailers and whether they'll have jobs I asked one man the booster club president what?

1 (21m 26s):
Highlight of the game is so far. Any nearly starts to cry. Down on the field. The tigers are playing better than anyone had expected going into the fourth quarter. The score is 21 six Tigers comfortably leading then in the last five minutes of the game everything falls apart the Bearcats star player Tramaine Brock rushes for a touchdown. They missed the extra point. So it's 2112 two minutes later, which is 3 minutes left in the game Rock Springs 55 yards to the end zone is the Tiger coaches watch helplessly.

1 (22m 8s):
It's a two-point game now 21:19. The tigers are still eating but Long Beach has the momentum and they only need a field goal to win. The tigers are completely exhausted many have been on the field the

2 (22m 18s):
entire game the kicker's limping

1 (22m 21s):
Ellen villalta the ninth grader who made that great play

2 (22m 23s):
from the sidelines with an injured knee.

1 (22m 26s):
The Tigers get the ball back their last possession, but they can't even manage a first down they punted away and there's still plenty of time for Long Beach to score be ready to drop the Bearcat start to drive again. They cross the 50-yard line into beihai territory. The clock is running down coaches are screaming. So go here we go. The place is going now. I can honestly say this is the only football game I've ever been to where it really did seem to matter who won earlier. I felt bad taking sides against the Bearcats their town was hit by the hurricane to but now I don't know what I'll do if the Tigers lose their town was hit harder.

1 (23m 12s):
They're The Underdogs they have to learn and then they do they stop the Bearcats. It's over. Shake It Up The Clock Runs Out in a space Explorer 2119 Tigers. It's every corny sports movie come to life people streaming on the field hugging players fraud on the ground all these people in this wreck town a static over a football game assistant coach Jeremy turcotte, I think next to get married and having my baby. That's about the most Isn't thing I've ever seen in my life because hey, yeah, let's not let you go.

1 (23m 55s):
I know we gotta get home coach competitor.

2 (23m 57s):
Never been more proud. Okay in my coaching career never been more proud of the

1 (24m 2s):
group of guys in my life. And right now love you guys. I love you guys take tomorrow off

2 (24m 8s):
to you all Wednesday 3:30 p.m. To 3:30. Okay. Anybody touch? Somebody

1 (24m 13s):
great job fellas, great job fellas break it down what I win. You need to go home as soon as possible and just like that the place clears out

2 (24m 29s):
a half hour later. The only people after the coaches still reliving the game Luke. One of the assistants is on the cell phone with his brother in Alabama. They had the ball about a minute half left driving with no timeouts, and we stack them and no time left,

1 (24m 43s):
but I just want to call and tell you that man. I'll I'll call you

2 (24m 45s):
tomorrow. Sometimes wonder holler at you real quick. I love you, brother. I have all the coaches. I met here Luke seen the most discouraged about everything. He lost his house. He sounded disheartened in the morning. He told me they want his contract is up in May probably leave here, but now his mood is different and you know, we play next Friday night here and you know, it's not like the town's gonna be back to normal next Friday night. So I mean, they're still going to not have anything to do. They're still going to be a curfew and you know, I mean, this is just just it starts it. I mean if you lose tonight, it's like, you know what you go home and you're sitting in the trailer and you have no AC and And you lost a football game but no it's a little easier to go home and sit in trailer with no AC when you just want a football game that that nobody gave you a chance to win.

2 (25m 35s):
Before coming to Bay st. Louis. I felt the way I think a lot of us feel we see these places on TV. I didn't understand how you go back to a town like that to all that loss and live there in the middle of it. What do you going back there for and how do you even begin to get over it? Watching the Tigers win 21:19 completely outmatched everyone together cheering them on

1 (25m 58s):
I knew the answer

2 (26m 10s):
with a pollock. So we take the in this week with Tigers coach Brennan capretta. He is not the coach anymore, but it's still very involved with the team. He told us that in some ways. The pandemic has been harder on the high school kids in town than Katrina was because facing Katrina. He said could we still hang out together right now the school plans to be open in the fall. The team is supposed to start summer workouts in about a

1 (26m 31s):
week June 1st with the first game scheduled for August. Let's plan for now anyway, I'm gonna have to be analyzed you a to Dunkin Donuts.

2 (27m 10s):
It's back in 1996 when Michael Jordan and the Chicago Bulls were at the height of their power when the way to winning the fourth of the six championships that they wanted back in the 90s. We didn't have a set of our show on the Bulls and just about loving basketball. It included the story of a barber named Tommy who was the one person rooting against the Bulls in a barbershop on the South Side full of bulls Fanatics as y'all watch the playoff game on television the Bulls again

1 (27m 36s):
Shaquille O'Neal in the Orlando Magic. I like shit. Yeah, and they haven't rough time at the moment But I can't give up the ship right can't give up this year. Even at halftime the Bulls up by 10.

2 (27m 51s):
Tommy did not let off. This isn't hand to think dangling from his lip it acquired

1 (27m 57s):
land. No coming back. Wait about five. I didn't know what to the fat lady sing and he was just funny to him

2 (28m 5s):
calmly say no to a room full of hope that fans later when the game ended and the Bulls won by 15 times. Is it no biggie. So yeah, but who's coming Series against Seattle? And then okay, this is the scene. I narrated back then in that show.

1 (28m 21s):
Then we all looked up and through the plate glass window in front of the barbershop. We saw a car pull up a guy climbs out with a brand-new broom in his hand and strides towards the barbershop. Bring in the room to dummy guy walks in and stands Birmingham. Where the door what's wrong? I can't hear you man. Did you see the ball run down the street with was he alone it the guy's name is Derek a regular at Coleman come.

1 (29m 3s):
I got to go home and celebrate me and all my buddies. We celebrate. You go jump on the bandwagon sooner or later time. We gonna make em believe I know right? Tommy's unmoved. I'm already talked to Gary Payton what we gonna do it for to get everybody see ya episode of the show wasn't just about being a basketball fan. There's also about playing

2 (29m 29s):
basketball and what it can mean to you and not incidentally all the trophies that you collect along the way if you're serious about the game for the get the bigger the trophy the of course some trophies do not age.

1 (29m 41s):
Very

2 (29m 41s):
well yet old enough and at some point they can just start to look like Dusty aging Kotter one of our producers Nancy Updike talked to a friend of hers who played a lot of basketball all about this when I met up with my friend Mary to talk about basketball. She was having some trouble with her trophies. She just moved to a new apartment and her new place was small so small that a bunch of high-school trophies would just dominate any room they were

1 (30m 7s):
in she had the trophies

2 (30m 10s):
in a box in the living room and we sat on the floor pulling out speak silver statuettes of girls and culottes reaching ever upward hopeful and fit like in Soviet propaganda posters. Who's

1 (30m 23s):
Kacey like feeling really tough walking

2 (30m 24s):
home with something this big especially if you hold it like this sure that baby by the base then she found one that was not like the others. It's sort of hard to understand actually picture this a thick slice of It sanded and shellacked and mounted with a miniature rim and backboard and then leaping across the front a stick figure made of roofing nails going in for a slam dunk. Mary identified this as her 1978 girls varsity team trophy from Cardinal docherty high school and the girls. She said had not been pleased with the trophy at all if ugly, isn't it?

2 (31m 6s):
Yeah, it is truly if we were all really unhappy we wanted like a traditional a tree.

1 (31m 12s):
Yes, we would rather have had like the also

2 (31m 17s):
ugly but much more acceptable old version of trophies. That was an extra fees. I'm sure I mean if you're a 13 year old girl, you know. Be walking home with that you want no, right, right. That's the

1 (31m 26s):
truth. You want something that goes up high in the

2 (31m 28s):
sky not something that you know, it's a slice of a tree.

1 (31m 33s):
I don't want a slice of a tree

2 (31m 34s):
with a nail stick figure soldered together. Yeah doing the one thing that you know, you'll never be able to do dunk was that was that something that you all disgust? Oh, yeah. I mean we met and we also thought that that was the only reason we'd never be in the NBA luckily for us. We all thought well, you know, we're really, you know, some of the The best players on the face of the Earth, you know, when you're sixteen year old girl who's playing on it, you know at a tough Catholic League school like you think yeah, we're good enough. You know, I'm just as good as Maurice Cheeks and you know, the doctor would like to play with me and dr. J. And you know, we could attribute our lack of you know success in the NBA to the fact that we were girls soon-to-be women who would never don't then?

2 (32m 19s):
That's all that was keeping us from it. Mary hand is me the would slice Trophy and when I reach to touch the stick figure I realized that one of his feet was on a pivot so I could actually make it go in for the dunk. Once I discovered this it was impossible not to do it over and over and over the trophy was completely hypnotizing a disturbing artifact from an artistic period best forgotten that that the art of the late 70s, you know, especially like in Catholic religion textbooks and you know churches and stuff was so ugly who knew there was even a genre the late seventies

1 (33m 6s):
Catholic

2 (33m 6s):
art. I'm afraid I've been so influenced by it. It's like, you know,

1 (33m 12s):
those walkways little

2 (33m 14s):
ink drawings that are just a little bit off on purpose, you know what I mean? And they on purpose - of it is just like, you know, it's

1 (33m 20s):
been a great year. Right, right. You can always like here at Cat Stevens song playing in the background.

2 (33m 35s):
As a kid Mary played

1 (33m 37s):
basketball mostly with her older brother Daniel

2 (33m 39s):
the two of them roamed around the city together looking to pick up games whenever they could all summer every weekend even at night because the court down the street had lights.

1 (33m 49s):
It was a way to get out of the house

2 (33m 51s):
to escape the chaos of 11 kids in a working-class Irish family in a two small house on the edge of Northeast. Philadelphia basketball was a place of clear rules and gestures at all. Made sense and home was a place where you could get hit for no reason or find yourself still hungry at the end of a meal. Mary remembered being hungry a lot growing up a fact always cheerfully denied by the nuns at school. The message was you couldn't be hungry because your parents are Saints and they especially directed it to our family and to all the other families that had a lot of kids in them that our parents were Saints because they work so hard to provide

1 (34m 32s):
for us. So I thought that I was

2 (34m 34s):
just, you know, extraordinarily greedy that that I would want to you know eat when I hungry I think that. the playing basketball was a way to say, you know, like if I could use my body in this way that you know, got me status and attention and a certain amount of prestige then then then my body was okay in a way even though like it was I mean, I was way too skinny when I was a kid and like it was cause for concern for the school nurse a couple times and Playing basketball with a way to say, you know, you're not you're not going to have neural damage from being malnourished you just going to have these other minor malnourished problems.

2 (35m 36s):
Another good thing about basketball is it was cheap Mary but the family room and a basketball for their backyard when she was only seven or eight using her first communion money. 65 bucks and five dollar increments from everyone in her huge family the only equipment she really needed and could never afford wear good shoes. She always had those supermarket checkout line shoes with the hard plastic Souls that were completely embarrassing of course, but also had no grip ability. So she would be running down the court and go sliding and be called for traveling. So when you're she got up the courage to ask a girl down the block for her old shoes.

2 (36m 17s):
Her name was Karen and she had really nice beta bullets high tops white and I wanted her sneakers and because I knew she was getting new ones and in our neighborhood there is the practice of throwing your old sneakers up over the telephone wires when you're done with them and most of them were hardly worn out at all. I mean not I mean, they love them you could see that there was tread missing but like It's not like you had to rip through the top of them and I'd ask her for them. And she said yeah that she would give them to me when she got her new ones and and it was like I thought that it was a little bit weird that I would ask somebody for their use shoes.

2 (36m 57s):
But we had other clothes that were used from other people and you know, she was tough and she kind of had this like, you know, she seemed like she be the kind of person that could like keep something like that to her and would know what it meant. And and she did she never told anybody except us. Of course the most important person that she shouldn't have told her mother and her mother got really upset and told her that she couldn't give him to me and There they were hanging up on the telephone wire my sneakers and I'm sure that her mom did that because she was afraid that if I came home with a pair of sneakers that it would be insulting to my mother.

2 (37m 41s):
I'm sure that they all had this understanding of themselves like you don't insult someone else's you don't insult one of your peers by giving their kids your crappy shoes even though They're better than the crappy shoes that you bought for them, you know. But they were always like really beautiful sneakers hanging up on the wires and there was no way to get them. No way at all. They just like floated up there and you know what? I think that's when I decided that platonic idealism was true there really was a perfect thing that I would never experience at least when I played in that Catholic league

1 (38m 29s):
and only I could see them for what they

2 (38m 31s):
were. Only small worn-out tread I saw last season of unforeseen since high statistics. We talked for two hours about basketball and we kept returning to the dunk and the cruelty of the dunk on that would slice trophy a dunk by a stick figure made of nails driving home their 18 year old sense of frustration. They could be the best ball handlers the best guards and it didn't matter worth a damn because they couldn't dunk.

2 (39m 14s):
All of that captured forever in the last trophy most of them would ever receive I think it was really kind of thoughtless in the way that like thoughtless things can sometimes have a really nasty Edge to them, you know, like no one and we had a woman on our team who was like six three and she couldn't dunk the ball you don't I mean it was like there was no doors. No one that we knew who could dunk the ball. No not a single woman that we knew and we knew some tall women. We knew women who are in college. You know, I mean we used to ice have a dream a recurring dream that I dunk the ball. Yeah, what were the circumstances I was on the Baseline?

2 (39m 55s):
And I mean it was the same I was in the same position all the time and it wasn't like the kinds of dunks that you see in real life like this. Even the best players can do this was a spectacular don't because I didn't just get my hands up over the rim

1 (40m 11s):
I sailed over. Over the rim

2 (40m 14s):
like with my feet and got above the basket and just like slammed the ball down

1 (40m 18s):
to thing. Like I was like my whole body was Above the Rim

2 (40m 22s):
and stayed in bounds of all time. Hey Kai, my talking with her Nancy Updike coming up and Katie's not great at soccer invents a way to be a star that's in a minute Chicago public radio when our program continues. Support for This American Life comes from Capital One Capital One Knows life doesn't alert you about your credit card. That's why they created Eno the Capital One assistant that looks out for surprise credit card charges, like overtipping duplicate charges or potential fraud then sends an alert to your phone and helps if you need to fix them another way, they're watching out for your money when you're not Capital One what's in your wallet see capitalone.com for details.

2 (41m 14s):
This American Life Myra glass today's program time out and it's kind of unprecedented moment when Sports have been put on pause like when has that ever happened? We have favorite stories from back before the lockdown to fill in the void the sports void. We've arrived at three of our program X3. Those are can play. Okay. So so far our show we've done football and basketball. Let's turn to soccer. This is from Danielle elk on the executive producer and host of radio. I'm you want a hint about his dad. Dad growing up in Peru Daniels dad Renato, we talk around the neighborhood like all the kids did but it's never anything special so we certainly like it was never thought of as being an athlete but he was that of from a young age was being like Beyond unusually bright, you know, when I've gone back everyone I was introduces.

2 (42m 1s):
Oh, this is Renato son and then just heard like a little like just you know, your death. So smart your dad is so smart, you know when he was a kid. He wanted his he was like 14. He won this National quiz show for kids on TV and oh wow flew from the city where he lived in you know flew to Lima because only kid from the provinces who was a finalist only kid from a public school front page of the newspaper. He's incredibly verbal kid left poetry and words great talker. But again soccer. There's two things that happen when you are one of the better players they put you in goal, you know to be a goalkeeper May

1 (42m 42s):
Maybe

2 (42m 43s):
they might make you like ref, you know, but that's like really like lo you know? Yeah, but my dad turned that around and you know wasn't goalie or rev and I'm sure he played I'm not saying that he didn't play but but he started calling the neighborhood games Fleet. So he was kind of games DG have gear. He had a microphone and a little speaker. He can make his voice louder and yeah, he could make me believe that time. Yeah, and so basically just taking equipment down and he's announcing. Kids actual games. Yes as they're playing. Yes. I kids. He knows. Yeah kids in this neighborhood. I'm just imagining if I were a kid playing in that game to have somebody like calling the game and I could hear them calling game as I was doing.

2 (43m 25s):
It

1 (43m 25s):
would make me so much more

2 (43m 27s):
competitive. You know, I mean, it makes it so much more epic. Yeah. Absolutely.

1 (43m 32s):
I think my picture of it is like how glamorous are you kidding me? Like suddenly it's their game is

2 (43m 38s):
elevated and it's not just the neighborhood game now. It's like look, this is just like we're on Radio, which is just like that's the same they do for the World Cup.

1 (43m 50s):
Daniel's dad would also make up

2 (43m 51s):
games like the whole professional games like all the players both sides all the action starting Danielle says, he was 10 or 11 you do just kind of for himself is like a thing to do though the whole family knew he could do this and if for example on a Sunday afternoon after ones had lunch when my father would start to be the entertainment for the adults. Even at the just to make up a game for us, you know, make it a good one. You just described a game and it's a completely made-up game, but when goal would be scored inevitably, you know, the adults would cheer and like that was great. That was a great game, you know, and he got really good at this, you know, eventually he was he was one of my great uncles Had a little theater in the tank on window on the beach beach town in southern Peru and they were doing sort of like a night of arts and poetry or whatever talent shows essentially.

2 (44m 46s):
Yeah and my uh, my great uncle Wang cast or signed up. My dad was like you can do it just like you do for us around the house. Yeah on Sunday afternoons. I think at that point he was like 12 or 13. He goes out on stage three hundred people in the theater and he's nervous but What he does is essentially make up a game. So many God is the club from arequipa Day by a local favorite from The Province. And in this game that he met up on stage. They play the big fancy team from the capital email. We received audio low. They're like the Yankees. They're like the Yankees. Yeah. We don't like them in his telling of it everyone plays the game with their life, you know, everyone does it exactly right as if you know, as if controlled like, you know by a marionette which of course, you know, they were right.

2 (45m 34s):
Yeah. Yeah I can just I find it very easy to believe that people could have been really moved by the sport. This is this was it wasn't like a fake game. It was at the game and so in his game the the hometown team like gets it up to the edge and scores. Yes, Millie got scores people exploded, you know, like you were tearing something that actually happened and the detail that he tells me that I'm always struck by is that when he when the lights came off and he went off stage is um, Eagles crying just weeping, you know with with joy and with I guess Pride.

2 (46m 17s):
There's a video of you online with your dad on stage and you tell the story and then your dad comes up on stage and then he calls a game. Yeah, he hadn't done this in like 50 years, but you know, we threw a jersey on him and he took the mic and and you through its in stadiums and underneath

1 (46m 34s):
for realism sudamericano their food bowl. Why didn't the menu to select currency Rosie right in the thick of a fundable part of the keyboard a silly know? What is that? So

2 (46m 45s):
he's a minute 40. I believe he said, you know proven team against a Brazilian team and the Brazilian team is bringing the ball out of the back,

1 (46m 55s):
please don't Santos

2 (46m 58s):
Santos who was a Brazilian Defender kicking it out towards the right. So these are teams from the 50s. Yeah,

1 (47m 6s):
Robin's habit. I see you thinking phone. Idiot.

2 (47m 9s):
Okay. So idiot was was a midfielder approving midfielder. He intercepts the ball here.

1 (47m 14s):
This is

2 (47m 14s):
where things start

1 (47m 16s):
shifting. Yes, another we need to have you need to put another

2 (47m 20s):
teacher. So it intercepts the ball and pass it towards the right. This is this is actually a stroke of Genius. It's coming up I think or don't but I never really play with our emotions here the ball in his telling the ball hits the post but you know that I had to the ball and it hits off the post right to bounces back out, right?

1 (47m 47s):
Where's that component back in the field Theory? People are so excited. I feel excited works. It's funny to think that if he if he had actually been great at

2 (48m 23s):
soccer.

1 (48m 24s):
That moment on stage never would have happened. Right? Right. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, you know they did they might have been singing songs about him. Oh somebody else would be some other kid would have been on stage. Yeah. Danielle a lock on the first told the story on his show radio ambulance a he's launched a new weekly podcast with news from Latin America called El Cielo available wherever you get your podcast.

1 (49m 5s):
At for the girl with golden gloves.

2 (49m 9s):
So now we travel back in time to a sweaty gym in 1998. That's when this was first broadcast. It's about somebody with a complicated relationship with the sport. She loves for me. My spadola Marissa was an accountant a financial analyst at huge insurance company. She was living day-to-day like anybody else then she heard about this Boxing class that was being offered at the company gym some guy. Alton was teaching Maritza like sports. She'd even taken an aerobic box in class before so she decided to go down and check it out here. I am gonna Sue coming in Nellie's the first time I didn't get I didn't have a chance to change some walking it all the suited up some roasted comes up and she's so short.

2 (49m 50s):
You know, she goes I want to get rid of my stomach. I want to get rid of my gut so she was so shy look at her go honey. I teach boxing, you know, the same boxing aerobics, you know Arrow boxing this If you want to come to dance around jump around as I'm not the guy for you, so this ain't what you want. He wasn't even thinking about me. There's another girl who thinks is the rough. I mean, So I threw a positive own prisons first David, let me see what you got you hot bath bathroom

1 (50m 21s):
pretty good birthday goes but who told everybody to

2 (50m 24s):
step that is not trying to fix me and I'm a teacher will vomit

1 (50m 28s):
shine you up like a recognized shoe and

2 (50m 30s):
Palace you up and he

1 (50m 31s):
made me laugh if I was amusing. I found it

2 (50m 35s):
amusing it

1 (50m 36s):
reminded me and remind me of watching your movies in this guy telling me I'm like an old

2 (50m 41s):
shoe is gonna pass me that

1 (50m 43s):
look this guy's guy.

2 (50m 44s):
Next I started working with like every day with come down with the pads that are

1 (50m 49s):
giving a

2 (50m 49s):
combinations of she said of falling into place. So I was like, whoo. I said, you know something I said. I said if I could bring you to see my gym in Brooklyn I said you could want in New York City Golden Gloves. She goes I can't I go honey at what I got you doing right now. No girl fights the way you do right now. So that was that's how it all started. Every day after work in Manhattan Maritza would take the subway all the way out to Brooklyn to train for three or four hours at Milton's gym. And then go all the way back home to Queens. She spends her weekends at the gym. No one in her old life understood what she was doing. She'd grown up in the projects put herself through college gotten an MBA held a good paying job and he or she was back so close to the streets when she got a broken nose and black eyes in the ring.

2 (51m 36s):
She lied to her co-workers about it didn't tell them. She was boxing her parents didn't approve of

1 (51m 42s):
In fighting, they were conservative born in Puerto Rico.

2 (51m 45s):
Her friends were suspicious of her weight loss. They accused her of being anorexic infected with HIV or addicted to drugs but at the gym everyone believed in her Maritza was the only girl at Milton's his first girl so she'd spar with the men there. She took Joey one day and she was strolling non-stop combinations and punches repetitiously. It was an old man sitting down in the chair the Eagles God damn that boy get to know some punch. Has language had the Headroom. So when she finished he came over and he goes that's going to be one good day. I'm fired up boy is going to be great. I go. I hate to tell you this. That's no guy. He goes with me National guy look like a guy.

2 (52m 26s):
That's a girl. Just get out of here sighs much to come here. So she came over me I go took over here ya go. And she looked like a girl now he goes. Oh, Looking at Maritza. You probably wouldn't think boxer. She's small just over five feet tall and only 106 pounds her features are fine and delicate

1 (52m 53s):
but when she talks about her love for

2 (52m 55s):
boxing you can see her in the ring. She's radiant. It's like speaking to someone who's had a religious conversion

1 (53m 1s):
by his shed a light on me. That's like my vision is like I just obtained a vision. It's like this is this is all this is what I was put here for. Ladies and gentlemen tonight's next batters. The women's 106 pounds last the referees Peak Santiago in the below Corner Maritza Arroyo from the Supreme Team Boxing Club a while is a financial analyst and a part-time personal trainer. This is her first with Milton's training Maritza was unbeatable

2 (53m 35s):
within a year. She had taken all the amateur titles in New York. She won the Metros the Empire

1 (53m 40s):
States in a 96. She won the biggest of all the golden gloves and Listen Square Garden a fight televised around the world held in a ring where some of the greatest boxers in history of fought. Maritza and I get together to watch the video of her 96 Golden Gloves when the gardens packed the crowds going wild Maritza is incredibly fast and beautiful in the ring watching her. You understand what it

2 (54m 12s):
means to be a smart fighter.

1 (54m 14s):
She's calculated the woman she's fighting is taller than she is with longer arms summer. It's adducts down low and Jabs up to the body choosing where she lands her punches to the ribs then to the chest and Her opponent can barely catch your breath Marissa's up giving her a fierce combination to the face and head there goes there goes the Upper Cuts there goes another one in body. Wow, another one for the body another one another one in the last 10 seconds Manson gets in a good punch straight to maritza's face Maritza stumbles back and then seems to go crazy. She throws non-stop combinations and the crowd is screaming faintly has a hook.

1 (55m 1s):
And this a lot but I can we just watch the last 10 seconds. That was so cool. Oh my God, you are so good. Maritza. I am I wanted I want to see you fight. So badly

2 (55m 17s):
after the fight ends were laughing. We keep rewinding to watch maritza's

1 (55m 20s):
Amazing finale. Not a good night. Kiss you. Okay. All right. We're both completely high in hysterical Marisa's face is transformed. This is pure joy and in a way it's terrible because we both know she's quitting boxing.

2 (55m 47s):
Marissa wants to go pro but that doesn't seem to be any way. She could make a living at boxing. She's only 106 pounds. They don't even have a name for her weight class if she went pro. No one knows if any women who are good enough to match her as it is. There are only two amateur women at her level in all her title matches. She's always been put up against these same two opponents over and over and she's beat them every time. In 10 years, there may be enough women that Maritza would be able to make a career of it, but she's already in her 30s. She says she has to be realistic about the future,

1 (56m 20s):
you know, I gimmicks feelings. You know, when I when I go into the gym I want to do it, you know when I come away from the gym and I start looking at reality. It's like,

2 (56m 29s):
um, I'm sad it's like a sadness. You mean nobody sees on the outside?

1 (56m 38s):
No one sees it but inside it's like it

2 (56m 40s):
died. It's like

1 (56m 43s):
God it could have been you should be in there

2 (56m 44s):
boxing. it's like she's in love with someone she knows she has to leave so she circles around boxing quits comes back for one night stands last year Milton signed her up for the Metros tournament without telling her on the night of the fight he called her from ringside and told her they were holding up the match for her Maritza got in her car and drove from Queens to Brooklyn while Milton lied to the judges about Maritza being stuck in traffic she arrived beat her opponent three rounds flat what was so disgusted with herself were fighting when she was trying to retire That you left without even collecting her trophy, but being back in the game felt too good. And after that win, she just couldn't bring herself to walk away despite her reservations.

2 (57m 26s):
She went on to fight in the 1997 New York gloves and of course one. In February just after Maritza misses the deadline for the 1998 Golden Gloves. I go to Milton's gym to see her fight, even though these days Maritza isn't there much anymore Milton has promised me that Marissa will spar with a new girl he's training we wait and wait and no Maritza an hour passes when she finally shows she looks worn out and tired. She's not dressed to box and she says she's got the flu. She's not going to fight right away everyone starts.

1 (58m 7s):
Singer, but I got nothing with me. What do you mean everything? Yeah, and I'm

2 (58m 14s):
nothing. She said she didn't bring her shoes. She doesn't have any of her gear Milton points to some shoes lying in the corner says they're her sighs. Suddenly. Maritza doesn't look so tired,

1 (58m 25s):
but I gotta tell you I will not be so

2 (58m 28s):
then Maritza dropped the pretense we had down in the elevator to her car turns out she's been carrying her gloves her mouthpiece for wraps all of our equipment in her car for the past year just in case

1 (58m 45s):
Right now because because I love boxing that's why it's like he was got me where I'm at today. Okay, very very happy and very balanced, I guess so Second Avenue between second third and 13th Street. So here I am with no voice who noticed Lumina goes far is that crazy? That's crazy.

2 (59m 10s):
She grabs her bag and we raced back to the gym. And as Marissa is getting dressed I noticed She wears tiny Golden Gloves on a chain around her neck. Milton stands ringside pumped up ready to see his favorite in action. Again. This is Howard

1 (59m 24s):
Cosell live right hand from Supreme Team

2 (59m 27s):
boxing

1 (59m 31s):
well, laughter shoulders Municipal actually shoulders inside Oh good one

2 (59m 42s):
Maritza stiff at first then she starts to relax. She's ducking down dancing around the ring. And in the last 10 seconds of the fight. She has a surge of energy. She's punching hard moving fast throwing non-stop combinations.

1 (59m 59s):
Come on girls. Huh

2 (1h 0m 7s):
and afterwards she's pumped up with adrenaline sweating laughing with Milton and the guys in the gym. She says she'll be back to spar and train every

1 (1h 0m 14s):
week. And even though she's missed the deadline for this year's Golden Gloves. She swears. She'll take the gloves next year stay tuned for 1999. She says stay tuned.

2 (1h 0m 33s):
But Marissa doesn't show it Milton's the next week or the week after she breaks two appointments with me. She doesn't return my calls. And when I finally reach her she's angry angry. She fought again scared. She's getting sucked back in and how about the fact that you're still carrying around your gear? Well, I guess I can't get like

1 (1h 0m 54s):
oh vaccine yet.

2 (1h 0m 58s):
It's maybe it's my

1 (1h 0m 59s):
security blanket. Okay, it's it's like always knowing that it's always there that I can always hit that bad and just I think I've been in front of mirror at my house every day just meet you haven't come around and you know do the moves and you know, it's it's my connection to boxing. So I'll have to carry it I had to do I carry this with me I sleep with it. I have gloves in my car. I love it. It's it's me

2 (1h 1m 35s):
that story for me Miss spadola Maritza stop boxing herself she's aged out of it these days she teaches people to box

1 (1h 2m 11s):
I found a mysterious today by our production manager Stone Nelson and our technical director Matt Tierney other people who have put together today's show including orgill going to see T's Catherine a Mondo Christopher Street Allah Julie Whitaker executive editors damn cast the bow or managing editors or Sarah abdirahman and Diane.

2 (1h 2m 26s):
Whoo, there's guys that you heard beginning of the show Jason

1 (1h 2m 29s):
Kirk and Spencer haul their essay about sports was originally published on the website hazlitt. Their upcoming book is called the sinful 7 sci fi Western the legends of the NCAA

2 (1h 2m 41s):
our website where you can scream our archive

1 (1h 2m 43s):
over seven hundred episodes for absolutely free This American Life dot-org This American Life is to give the public radio stations by PRX. The public radio exchange support for This American Life comes from zip recruiter. Zip recruiter is that again is making hiring simple with matching technology designed to find qualified candidates and actively invite them to apply learn more at zip recruiter.com / life. Thanks as always to our programs co-founder. Mr. Twain ality, you know every Friday at the end of the day sends out an email to all of us and it always says the same thing. Love you guys. I love you guys. Take tomorrow off and Ira Glass back next week with more stories with This American Life.

2 (1h 3m 45s):
Next week on the podcast At This American Life less a yellow bird searches for missing people. She's great at it. It's just hard to hold my tongue because I know there's more to it.

1 (1h 3m 56s):
I'm excited

2 (1h 3m 57s):
then around this goes missing. You're making me feel like I got it. You know,

1 (1h 4m 3s):
what sooner Nobody cares about how you feel

2 (1h 4m 9s):
next we're going to podcast on your local public radio station.