1 (1s):
Support for This American Life comes from Progressive. One of the country's leading providers of auto insurance with progressives Name Your Price tool you say what kind of coverage you're looking for and how much you want to pay and Progressive will help you find options that fit within your budget use the Name Your Price tool and start an online quote at progressive.com price and coverage match limited by state

3 (23s):
law. A quick warning. There are curse words that are unbeaten today's episode of the

1 (28s):
show. If you prefer a beep version, you can find that at our website This American Life dot-org. It started as something that she was doing in her spare time and kind of took over a life with the yellow birds searches for missing people people. Nobody else is looking for people the police have given up looking for a reporter Sara. Crane Murdoch met listen 2014 when Sierra was looking into The Disappearance of a young white oil worker case e karke advantage to couple years before on the reservation list is from in, North Dakota. Plus it was investigating it too. She had just gotten out of prison. She was looking for a distraction away to stay sober and she basically opened up her files to me and allowed me to see the degree to which she had involved herself.

1 (1m 17s):
In this case. She had actually spent years and she cracked that case through like really really non-traditional means like by basically wage. This campaign against the person who she believed had murdered Casey Clark. She like mailed tens and tens of thousands of Flyers around Western North Dakota apply recipie wear with a photo of the guy. She thought murder case he Clark and his wife and they did turn people against him. But at the same time listen befriended the wife, they were texting each other almost every day.

1 (1m 58s):
They were talking on the phone constantly. Yeah, and so she had this really intimate window into the lives of these people. She was trying to investigate and through that window. She was able to see their vulnerabilities. So at the same time that she was like maintaining this faux friendship with this woman. She was also completely undermining her and her husband and the case broke open see I spent years with Lissa watching this play out and ended up writing a book about Lissa in the case. They got close. Sierra would stay with us apartment for months. They drive through the Badlands running down leads talk for hours every week when Sierra wasn't in North Dakota and during those years this thing happened Native American family started asking with a look for their loved ones.

1 (2m 43s):
This is a wrecker. Oh, remember the Mandan hidatsa and arikara Nation. Remember Lissa was just kind of inventing how she did this work for this. She'd been a welder a prison guard social worker did some while enforcement work instead of Criminal Justice and college, but you'd also been a drug dealer. The sun has lived on both sides of the law, which is what makes her so good at what she does. She's gone to prison. You know, she she knows how law enforcement operates from a perpetrators point of view as well in dozens of cases. Now sometimes in our own sometimes with law enforcement Lissa has deployed the same doggedness and resourcefulness that she marshaled in that first case, like for example, when a woman named Olivia lone bear when missing from this is reservation in 2017.

1 (3m 25s):
There was this National search for her because his theory was she might not be far from home where she was last seen and one day she decided to take a boat out on the lake near Olivia's House missing fishing sonar that she bought years earlier thinking someday. It might come in handy to find missing people. She just launched the boat and yeah within about 10 minutes her younger relative spotted some shape on the fishing sooner and said hey, Auntie, what's that and with the looked at it and it was a truck. And Olivia was inside. Once before this with a and Olivia's family, I tried to convince law enforcement authorities to look in that bag.

1 (4m 15s):
Lots of Native Americans go missing and I never found but I even have good statistics on this because the cases are so underreported and poorly tracked a big part of the problem through these federal laws that limit who can investigate cases and how they can investigate them on reservations which leads to a jurisdictional Time. It's often not clear which law enforcement agency is supposed to take a case. If you don't know if they disappeared from on a reservation or offer reservation. It's really hard to say who's responsibility that cases on the reservation Tribal Police with the federal authorities after reservation city or county or state police. But you know because it's so unclear those cases can become a lower priority or those cases can be ignored by all jurisdictions.

1 (5m 2s):
And and that's where Alyssa yellow bird comes in. You know she searches for the people whose flip through these jurisdictional cracks. So what's the story about the tell? Don't 2016. This is own niece went missing. And this was the first time that she went searching for someone who wasn't a stranger. She just like never expected that I would happen to her own relative. But this case is really remarkable for a lot of reasons for one. She figured it out in just five days. She also recorded all of her conversations, which is something that was a does a lot.

1 (5m 44s):
She saves everything. Thing she photographs everything she records everything and thus a gave me these phone calls that she recorded over the course of these five days and they were just incredible because they really showed kind of how she was able to break this case open in a minute by minute way. Sarah says another thing about this case she and Lissa talk for hours all the time about Everything But after those five days when less it was working this case. She just kind of went quiet about it. We didn't talk about it for years, which is really unusual because Lissa is always talking about her cases.

1 (6m 25s):
She just never talked about this case again, though, and I knew that I I knew because she was so quiet about it and I knew also because it was her own her own relative that it had affected her in a way that no other case had but I didn't really know why entirely like I thought there was something else going on and three years passed and that was when she finally said, okay. Yeah. I'm ready to talk about it. She wanted to talk about it. See I suggested doing a story with the said. Yes. She wanted people to hear it and that is what we're bringing you today. We listen in on this exceptional investigator with a yellow bird.

1 (7m 9s):
That's not cause they are really amazing. She just knows how to read people and how to pull information out of them that other people cannot get and we hear a crack this case in five. Very intense days WBZ Chicago with this American life. I'm Ira Glass. And before we get to the story a heads up the story mentions violence including sexual violence. Here's hero. Crane Murdoch. The last time I saw Alyssa, we were at her grandma's house on the Fort Berthold Indian Reservation. This was in February. Her mom had called her over to find their missing cat not something was a usually searches for but she drove over right away in her hot pink pajamas and while everyone's eating breakfast the so walks to the window stairs out with binoculars the flipping some coyotes got the cat a few days earlier her mom bought a hunting rifle and everyone's cracking up at the It was his mom a retired Professor who doesn't like to be outside and who's never had a gun taking to the porch with her rifle.

1 (8m 10s):
Melissa asks her nephew Mercury to teach her mom how to use it.

2 (8m 13s):
Yeah. It's a scary situation Mercury. We need your help

1 (8m 16s):
this it goes to the bedroom to get the rifle. She comes back holding a guitar case and hands it to Mercury.

2 (8m 23s):
This is perfect. Hey, I picked it up by the neck and I thought it was a barrel of stuff. It was a Fender guitar. You should be out there with this chair. Just singing my bad. Okay, everybody got the last of the day.

1 (8m 53s):
The yellow birds are really close. And any time you'll find four generations of them. Just hanging out all this is Grandma's house for days on end. And it was at this house everyone eating laughing watching television where they last saw was his knees Carla yellow bird before she went. Missing that was in August of 2016. At first they weren't that worried Carla didn't leave with the yellow birds. She lived about two hours away off the reservation. She was always stopping by sometimes stayed the night. She was 27 had lots of energy confident she'd walk into her family's house plugger iPhone into their speakers and start jamming hip hop and it wasn't unusual for Carla to take off for a few days not answer when they called when she stopped coming around her family told Melissa.

1 (9m 41s):
Don't worry, really? Oh, she's just out doing anything is probably doing something she shouldn't be so, you know, she'll come on let's that was starting to worry though. Carla was the daughter of when it was his favorite relatives Uncle Chucky. He died a few years earlier. One of the last things he'd asked was a was to look out for Carla then one morning Lissa had a dream about Chucky. It wasn't long. He just kind of appeared and he said you need to go get Carla now the so-called her family and found out the night before. Or they just a holy woman to come to the house and pray for Carla. They hadn't wanted to tell Alyssa and I was like, what do you mean you had a ceremony?

1 (10m 22s):
So if you guys didn't think anything was wrong, what would you be having a ceremony for? And I said luck. Somebody needs to come clean with me and tell me what the hell is really going on her mom told her they actually were really worried at this point. No one had heard from Carla and weeks and I said, why do you guys lie to me? Well, we didn't lie. We just don't want you to put all this stuff on social media and we know that's probably what will happen. This is family told her they didn't want it on social media out of protectiveness for Carla. Carla had been in some legal trouble. She was addicted to meth. They didn't want to make things harder for her Lissa thought maybe they were all so embarrassed.

1 (11m 6s):
In the yellow bird family are professors anthropologists social workers. All very aware of the stereotypes used to shame native communities being drunken being filthy being all these labels that they give us that when something of that nature takes over one of our family members. The last thing we want to admit is that it's hit us, right? I think what it boils down to is trying to keep a good reputation. So I think that played a major her role of Shame. This has seen this firsthand with how the family treated her. She was addicted to meth spent three years in prison for dealing for a while her family avoided her even now.

1 (11m 49s):
This has been sober 15 years and they don't like to talk about it. This is Mom doesn't even use the word prison. She calls it looses other college. Mizzou couldn't disagree more with this attitude. She believes that when someone goes missing that's the worst possible time to hide the facts often. The thing someone is trying to cover up can be part of what led them to go missing in the first place. Mr. Called Carla's mom. Loretta Loretta lived a few hours away on another reservation and the yellow birds didn't know her very, well Carla's parents weren't together long Loretta told the so she'd reported Carla missing a few weeks earlier with the offered to help find Carla and Loretta said yes.

1 (12m 32s):
Solicit got to work. One of the first people she called was the officer responsible for the case April Josie a detective for the city of Mandan or Carlo lived. April said she'd learned that in the days before Carla disappeared Carla was on the Fort Berthold reservation and she might have gone to a second reservation called Spirit Lake, but April didn't have jurisdiction on reservations. She was a city cop. This is another part of the jurisdictional tangle in these cases. April was trying to follow every lead. But she could only go so far to interview Suspects on the reservation. She needed the cooperation of law enforcement there. It's part of the Bureau of Indian Affairs. But no one was calling her back.

1 (13m 13s):
She did tell me, you know, this spans five states and three reservations. My hands are tied and I said why not I'll go wherever this is. My niece solicited exactly the thing her family didn't want her to do. She opened Facebook and wrote Carla yellow bird has been missing. NG and I want to know any and all info related to her disappearance before I take this to the next level people in the broader native community. No Lissa the work she does when she put something on Facebook people respond give her leads. They might be more cautious about giving police. She started getting calls right away and she learned Carla was last seen driving around with two men on the Spirit Lake Indian reservation, and they just described it was an older car with smaller.

1 (13m 59s):
It had two different kinds of paint maybe a Basement front quarter panel and it had plastic on one window. So when I put that out there people from Spirit Lake people from Bismarck. We're like, hey, we saw that car. We saw these people we know Carla that car belongs to sooner guys father soon a guy she hears his name a few times. He's a member of the Spirit Lake tribe. So Alyssa posts again on Facebook scissor nice was last seen was soon a guy gives his full name and within a few few hours. She gets a call from a blocked number

2 (14m 34s):
why it might even put his stuff when I only know what's going on.

1 (14m 38s):
Okay, that's fine. Now I appreciate that. It's una

2 (14m 43s):
I'm not a bad guy. You know that there's a way I could help anybody I tried. I don't even know your name. Well, I'm calling you here. I'll spell it for you. Okay? Yeah L is SA. Lissa say it sixteen times and you won't forget it. So, do you have any other insight into what happened to Carla? Why? No, I don't. Thomas track clear beer where I made contact with each other just letting you guys know only what I know that all I know.

2 (15m 29s):
hmm Well, your efforts are duly noted.

1 (15m 38s):
There are long stretches where the so doesn't say anything just let Sunnah fill the silence. This is sound sort of unimpressed which is tactical.

2 (15m 47s):
So do you want to give me your phone

1 (15m 49s):
number? Do you feel kind of paranoid about that?

2 (15m 53s):
Why would it be? I don't know. I'm just saying, you know, I understand that. I understand where you're coming from. You know, what put it like this only certain people have my phone number.

1 (16m 8s):
Okay, so you don't want to give it to me then? Is that what you think?

2 (16m 11s):
Yeah, because he must be doing something right by contacting you and

1 (16m 20s):
I appreciate it. I'm not trying to give you that feeling

2 (16m 23s):
I'm not trying to get your dancing at all. What I'm trying to do is I'm trying to find out where my niece is at. Yeah, if I know more than what I only know I'm being honest. I would give you all the information I do. No, I wouldn't know you don't mean

1 (16m 39s):
this is spends a lot of this conversation trying to get Sooners to give her his number I should say. This is really good at talking on the phone. She told me once you know me, I'll keep a dumbass on the phone forever to help people the best I can. Yeah, well, I sure could use your help finding my niece

2 (17m 2s):
my most definitely.

1 (17m 12s):
now

2 (17m 14s):
that's the only way we're going to get to the bottom of

1 (17m 16s):
things. Okay, so you'll call me in

2 (17m 19s):
the morning then or yeah, nothing to hide.

1 (17m 31s):
All right.

2 (17m 33s):
All right got that. Okay. Thank you.

1 (17m 43s):
Was the things he's lying Suna knows something the next day. It was a track down. The other guy people had seen in the car with Sunnah and Carla the night. She disappeared. He was a friend of Carlos named Jason. Listen, I got him on the phone. Jason said Carla had drugs. He wanted to sell in Spirit Lake. So sooner had offered to pick her up a few hours away and drive her and Jason back to the reservation when they got there. Jason said sooner ditched him and took off with Some other guys guys who are known as scary violent then hours later Jason Mann into them again, but Carla wasn't with them. You know what

2 (18m 24s):
I'm thinking they've killed her knowing so

1 (18m 30s):
he'd kill her. The sun was starting to feel sure that Carla was dead at the same time. She was gathering leads. She was also talking almost every day with April Josie the detective in Mandan April had gotten ahold of Carlos phone records bank account and seen no activity Alyssa decides she needs to apply more pressure. So she goes on Facebook again blast soon as name in another public post. She writes I have been given information that Carla was last seen riding with sooner guy, please. Contact me by private message. Your confidentiality is assured and then the phone rings.

2 (19m 13s):
It's Sunnah. Remember what I said if you say it sixteen times, you'll remember it. Yeah.

2 (20m 1s):
Nobody cares about how you feel. I just told you I want my niece's body back. Somebody better fucking come up. What is it going to take some cash? So y'all can go get high again getting high. You're getting high. Don't play me oil. Don't play me. You have a reputation out there. You have a reputation what I'm not going to explain that to you. You know it better than I do. I'm just saying I'm just saying what's it going to cost me sooner because that's what you're all about. Right? What right that you want to get hurt.

2 (20m 42s):
I'll give you five grand to get your fucking high on. Maybe you'll take yourself out with that. But oh, well, I want my niece's body. How about that? I'm on fire. I'm really okay. I'm being fucking real with you and you know what I tell you. I'm a fucking mess to be reckoned with when I'm fucking mad. And now I'm getting fucking mad. Oh, you know what anybody's even talking about so what's up Sue now? Let's get honest here. If you need to come up with a defense whatever, but I want to know what her body that plain and

3 (21m 16s):
simple.

2 (21m 20s):
Well, you know, I made a mistake to call you and tell you would only I know you know, what I haven't dealt with your kind of people before I have I'll come get her personally myself if I have to but I want to know. Do you have any fucking faith in anything in your life? Just fucking tell me where her body is at? What do you want me to see you? What do you want me to see you? What do you want me to fart? How about let's and I heard the truth. I've been telling you the truth. You know what when you want to get honest you want to get fucking real and you want to try and save your own ass.

2 (22m 6s):
Call me back. But until then I'm fucking done. Okay? Okay. All right cool

1 (22m 14s):
soon as still hasn't told her anything, but this time was it doesn't try to keep him on the phone. She hangs up on him the guy. Number she doesn't have the guy she suspects murdered her niece. This is anger here. That's not a tactic. She's enraged. What's crazy to me. Is that soon as stays on the phone and takes it and then unprompted decides to call her back just 10 hours later.

2 (22m 45s):
But you do know all live our life. Why don't I don't know. He's got all this dope on her and you didn't even know who she was pleased. I don't even know what I don't know. You know what? I won't give my name cleared. I'm going to speak with the cops with an attorney anything further that goes on with my name. I could press reinard harassment on to it do it. I hope that's not a threat because I'm ready it it's not a threat. Well you watch your mouth. I'll be sharing with you was being shared with me being real with you.

2 (23m 26s):
I got enough shit on you right now. Okay, I gotta make sure that you right now and that's all I'm going to say. Okay only take me a minute to get my fucking ducks in a row you go ahead and try and bring slander because I've had bigger fish try to bring me down people with and all my millions of dollars that you know, what good fucking luck.

1 (23m 55s):
Carl endless I had some things in common. There are obvious things they both had addictions. They were both mothers. They really loved their kids. But because of their addictions they'd had their kids taken away from them for stretches of time. They knew how awful that felt it was a lot for her. You know, I'm sure I wasn't the favorite auntie because I was waiting, you know, it's like

2 (24m 19s):
if she was doing wrong I could tell just by the way. way Her first eye contact was

1 (24m 26s):
she like please Auntie, you know, not every time I'm here is bad with us. Carlo was a really cute kid kind of shy giddy. But as Carla got older listen would get on her case. Carla was known to take your stuff little things. Like if you left your earrings out you might later see your relative wearing them and they'd be like look at the cute earrings. Carla gave me. The last time was the saw Carla they were at their Grandma's house. Lissa walked in on Carla reading the fridge and I was sitting I seen this big gaudy fake diamond ring. I didn't even see your head because you had it so far in there trying to get some munchies

3 (25m 6s):
out.

1 (25m 9s):
It was like this to carrot. I don't even think it was a cubic zirconia and I was like, oh my God, you heard my voice and her head popped up and she was like like Here she comes to pick on me again. You know, she's like what I sweat and I went over there and I literally grabbed that fake Jim and I said, let me see this one. So she took it off and she's like, oh my God, I thought you were going to start in on me. She was like in better condition that day. I said I am going to start in on you because of this stupid Rainn Wilson told her damn Carla if you're going to steal at least feel something nice.

1 (25m 49s):
Still when Carla needed help she often called this a unless I tried to help her as best. She could because of Carlos dad Chucky. He's a big part of why it's taken me so long to talk about Carla and why it still hurts so much. Let me just tell you what happened a few years before Carla went missing Chucky moved in with his mom. This is Grandma. Listen would visit him a lot spend hours in his bedroom. They'd flip through books together and talk about them Chucky didn't have as many graduate degrees as others in his family. But everyone said he was the smartest yellow bird. It made this a feel-good to keep up with him. She liked proving to herself and to Chuckie that she hadn't totally fried her brain with drugs.

1 (26m 35s):
They spent lots of time debating this massive book. He kept by his bed the code of federal regulations title 25. It spells out how the US government is supposed to fulfill its obligations to tribes in exchange for taking their land how it's supposed to always act in their best interest for their well-being obligations. The government has ignored in all kinds of ways both listened Chucky witnessed themselves. Chucky was four years old during a major event in their tribe the US built a dam flooded out most of the reservation forced everyone including the yellow birds to relocate they were farmers self-sufficient, but the land the government moved them to was on farmable.

1 (27m 18s):
There was huge unemployment. A lot of people left the reservation for cities Chucky and most of his generation were sent away to boarding schools where a lot of them were abused. in his room Chucky also had stacks of articles about an emerging science called epigenetics that shown how traumatic stress can change the way a person's genes behave and how those changes can affect your kids genes make it likely or that they develop illnesses like depression or PTSD Chucky put into words a patternless ahead observed her whole life that she and the people she would later help have been delivered into a system where they had no chance A system that kept taking Them until they died and their bodies are dragged behind bushes or left adrift at the bottoms of rivers and lakes and few people bothered to look for them to fish them out.

1 (28m 11s):
Chucky himself wasn't doing so well, he was an alcoholic. He was in his early 60s and he had cirrhosis. One night when Chucky was drinking he got violent and his mom kicked him out of the house this I called him and told him to come to Fargo where she was living. She didn't think he'd come but then he called her one night from a Fargo Hotel. He wouldn't tell her which one he was like, I've been I've been Jackin, you know, and like I know you're in sobriety. I know you're doing well. So I don't want to bring that to your house and I was like, well that don't make no sense because I told you if you want to die by the bottle. That's fine with me, but I just want to be near you.

1 (28m 52s):
I don't want you out on the street somewhere freezing to death or any weird stuff going on. So if you could just get your butt over here, that would be great. And he's like no, I got a room. I'll be good for tonight and tomorrow. I'll come over. Later that night Chucky called this again. He said he was going to kill himself this estate on the phone with him all night for seven hours. She kept him on one line on the other line. She took her son's phone dialed the police. She called every hotel in the city looking for him before Leslie could find him Chucky hung himself. That was the night. He asked was that to watch out for Carla.

1 (29m 41s):
In the three days Lisa was getting all these calls from Sunnah. She was also trying over and over to reach the one investigator who has the authority to look into crimes on the Spirit Lake Indian Reservation an investigator with the Bureau of Indian Affairs. Lissa left a ton of messages for him even as to Tribal Council men to call on her behalf. And finally after days of this the investigator returned her calls. Hello,

2 (30m 8s):
is this Lisa? Let's say yeah. Yeah, this is Officer from hello. Hello. I'm calling about Carly yellow bird. Yep. I'd like to get an update on what's going on when he tells us that we know

1 (30m 29s):
about Sunnah we're looking for him, but we can't find him anywhere.

2 (30m 34s):
Okay, well, he was driving around all weekend because I have pictures of them. You know soon has called me like three or four times, right? From what number he blocks it? Because I already own pretty much know who the culprit is.

1 (30m 59s):
And did you notice that gives them all the information she has who she's talked to who knows what where to find them. She seems way ahead of the investigator. This is typical. I've seen this a work on dozens of cases. The investigator tells us her. Don't worry. We got it covered then a few hours later.

2 (31m 24s):
Let's go. Who's this?

1 (31m 29s):
It's una I have no idea why he keeps calling

2 (31m 36s):
me. I don't even know if you just come clean. You tell me where my niece's body is that I will work with you because you know what? I know. You're a dumb fuck Ur. I know that. And you're probably a career criminal and that's too bad. No I can have pity on you. But I want my niece's body. Yeah, I know that you want to hear something that I don't even know. It's just hard to hold my tongue because I know there's more to it. Because I've been doing my research.

2 (32m 16s):
It sounds to me like you have a behavior pattern of sexual aggravated assault. No,

1 (32m 24s):
actually, yes sooner raped his child's babysitter and spent 10 years in prison for it. He was 21 at the time. She was 14. One of us has many jobs over the years was as a counselor to sex offenders in a prison.

2 (32m 38s):
I know your kind of people and you know, what you lie to yourself to you convince yourself that it's actually true, but you know what? I think I think you haven't ever gone this far before but good God you sure have motive because you know, what after spending what a 10-year stint. Is that what you did in the big house? Nobody wants to do that shit again, not at your age and you never will. One thing from that because they don't give you the proper treatment. They stick you like a little rat in a cage and they let you sit and they let you sit and they let you rot and your mind goes

1 (33m 14s):
mushy. This is the fourth time sooner has called us in three days. It's the middle of the night. She hasn't slept she's chain smoking cigarettes down in cup after cup of coffee soon as starts telling Melissa, he's worried. There are some guys who doesn't recognize driving by his house stalking him. He says they have Texas license plates will give me the license

2 (33m 37s):
plate number. I'll look it up for you. You understand what I'm saying? Do you guys want to try to shoot at me? You think I'ma go looking for these guys and after that use to get a light, but you know, that would be good information. You want me but I come after the Kong sneaking up to some people that want to shoot at me now that we specially I got you. I got you. I got you. I got your concern. That was dumb. man I got the glowing green icon for talking about this and even concerned about it.

2 (34m 19s):
You know, the mean I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I didn't even realize what I just said. Oh

1 (34m 34s):
laughs like this for a really long

2 (34m 36s):
time. I'm sorry, if I got no license plate number. I would give the PD their license plate number over here to you know what I mean? I do idea. I was out of line. I'm sorry soon

1 (34m 54s):
as seems totally thrown by this he tries to laugh to accept. It's clear. He doesn't understand what's funny. But in this is mind this was hilarious the guy she thought murdered her niece. He was calling her for help because he didn't want to get murdered and then she basically tells him go get

2 (35m 11s):
murdered. I'm sorry, but I understand you know that taking a fence around but I'm glad the trees make a lot lot of if you want me to describe the speed on that you still could laugh even though having a sense of humor even know what this is a serious matter. You know what I mean? Yeah. I'm sorry.

1 (35m 35s):
I must be getting tired. I'm sorry leaderless had told me she was exhausted. She hadn't slept in days. Days, and she was getting desperate. It had been three days since she posted soon as name on Facebook. She just lost it when sooner called the next afternoon. He sounded different. Sara crane Murdoch coming up soon as new tactic that's in a minute Chicago public radio way in our program continues. Support for This American Life comes from Progressive Progressive has you covered when it comes to car insurance starting with built-in savings like discounts for being a safe driver and you can also save when you start your quote online or have multiple vehicles on your policy.

1 (36m 28s):
In fact drivers who switch and save with Progressive save $750 on average start a quote online and see all the discounts for yourself at progressive.com National annual average auto insurance savings by new customers surveyed in 2009. In potential savings may vary discounts vary and are not available in all states and situations. This American Life from our class today's program a mess to be reckoned with Sara crane Murdoch is telling the story of little yellow bird as list investigating The Disappearance of her knees in 2016. And we pick up where we left off in less is investigation here Sierra. I'm a for Sunnah calls again and something's changed.

2 (37m 15s):
These guys like to call my first Monster, huh? They're late tomorrow afternoon. Why? Oh, yeah. Yep, you're too beautiful lady and you're not gonna lie to you. How can you continue? I'm not gonna hold the light from you. So, do you know something? I already talked to detective with gong byul very popular to come over tomorrow afternoon. I told him to contact you and ask you to be up here also, okay, because I wanted to talk to all you guys at the same time as well as my family and all that.

2 (37m 58s):
Are you involved? I wasn't. But you know where she went. But I didn't know that was going to happen. It should never happen. And I know where the bodies at. I know what individual it did. You better tell them everything, you know, otherwise, you're going to get the blame. You know that. That's why I want you to I want to approach you and with these cops around and letting them know you're the main one. I want to talk to and after I talk with you guys and you guys my statement about everything and we're going to go tell my take you to the

3 (38m 43s):
body.

2 (38m 48s):
I'm sorry, and you won't I find my head off earlier and you know what? I just remember and think about your laughing and your sense of humor last night when I was asking deliriously tired. Yeah. Yeah. I'm doing this sooner. You know, this is this is like another chance for you to turn it all around, right? Problem. All I'm asking for is protection

3 (39m 28s):
once I step forward

2 (39m 30s):
as well as my family

1 (39m 32s):
if this sounds at all manipulative Q it did to me to like he's flattering her saying was the finally convinced him to do the right thing and then he asks, so what can you do for me after I've done this thing for you? But what's that goes along with it? Well, the only thing I can guarantee you is that my family will

3 (39m 56s):
not

1 (39m 57s):
retaliate against your family. I don't hold any ill will to your parents. I don't even hold any ill will to you. I know you've lied to me already. I know you do. I know you're getting high and I know people don't make the best decisions when they're high. This is your time to turn it all around. You know what I mean?

2 (40m 24s):
Whether it's making bad decisions whether it's sexual impulses or not, whatever whatever it

1 (40m 31s):
is that gets you into these

3 (40m 34s):
predicaments. How old are you

1 (40m 40s):
38 you got plenty of time to turn that shit

3 (40m 43s):
around.

1 (40m 46s):
Soon as he's not ready to tell her what happened, but was this worried? He'll have a change of heart overnight back out plus soon as says people are after him. It was possible. He'd get killed before he confessed the next day and then they'd never find Carlos body. So looks like keeps pressing him. She throws that a named Dakota Charbonneau. People had told her sooner off and hung around Dakota. He was Notorious in Spirit Lake for the record of violent crime Lissa thought maybe he's the one who actually murdered Carla who was with you guys Dakota

2 (41m 19s):
and who subdural given him five below I'll give you the names

1 (41m 26s):
tomorrow not gonna give me a name fine lasat thinks she keeps pressing him. Well, why did you do it though? What possessed him to do that?

2 (41m 37s):
I just figured that she had dope. Man, it's not too shiny. And you did it behind my back when I heard the gunshot and I just happened to

3 (42m 1s):
be her.

2 (42m 7s):
Well, did she make any noises

1 (42m 9s):
or did she cry or anything? The rest of this phone call is really hard to listen to for the first time in four days. You hear this voice crack, but she keeps going asks question after question. She could soon until they're almost everything. He says one of the other guys shot her took her drugs, then he says he got away from the guys as fast as he could. Melissa asks him. Did you go back and check on Carla see if she was alive Suna says no. When he told you that how did you

3 (42m 46s):
feel? I wanted to know every

1 (42m 49s):
detail. So I wanted to know did she suffer? And what if she suffered I made a promise to Chuckie that I would look out for her.

3 (43m 8s):
I'm so

1 (43m 12s):
because it was important to me. to know how badly I feel that that and if she was out there suffering for days, then

3 (43m 27s):
it would have made it tougher but

1 (43m 30s):
I wanted to believe

2 (43m 32s):
that she

1 (43m 36s):
she went fast and that she didn't know.

3 (43m 42s):
It's kind of hard to know that.

1 (43m 47s):
Given that this is an ugly as fidic be would offer a little bit of comfort I need. This estate on the phone was sooner for a lot of that night and it's during this call that she softens toward him. Like her anger is totally drained out of her. Later, listen would tell me she was afraid soon. It was going to hurt himself or do something stupid to get himself hurt. She needed him to make it to the next day.

2 (44m 25s):
I asked you a question. What are you going to ask me? What are you gonna have to be done to me? What am I going to ask like punishment wiser? What? Yeah. I mean For you, I think you have somewhat of a conscience left. You know what I mean? I think

1 (44m 52s):
you I think you should you know, maybe even get some kind of immunity for turning State's evidence against the other two.

2 (45m 3s):
What kind of immunity is when they immunity? Okay. Do you know what a proper agreement is? Yeah, do you not really but well don't disagree with me tell me. Do you know what a proper agreement is going on a profit agreement is when you go

1 (45m 28s):
in and she starts explaining his options and a system that she knows and he doesn't PR o FF ER

2 (45m 36s):
you can look that shit up on the internet. You can ask for a proffer and if I were you I would thank you when we're Center talk. internet also I could. We are going to ask you that it's my little boy's birthday Saturday. I'd love to be there. For the boys and Me 3 years

3 (46m 0s):
old.

2 (46m 7s):
You can't lie, you can't lie. Everything that comes out of your mouth

1 (46m 16s):
needs to be the truth because if they find

2 (46m 19s):
out later that it wasn't it nullifies the agreement. I understand. I like to spend my birthday with me. If you do everything you say you're going to do. I will fight for you to

1 (46m 41s):
be there. With my heart and soul.

2 (46m 46s):
Give me my

1 (46m 46s):
work. And keeping in mind you've given me your word before

2 (46m 54s):
my work and World Report and given only put honesty on here dear family deserves our love deserves. If I don't want my kids growing up without me

1 (47m 5s):
if you keep your word. I will keep mine

2 (47m 9s):
and I won't borrow.

1 (47m 19s):
Melissa left for Spirit Lake the next morning at 7:00. It was a two-hour drive and she called me we talked the whole time. She told me she felt like all her searching for missing people had prepared her for this moment when she got to the reservation FBI agents were already there sooner had brought them to Carlos body. The crime scene was taped off. It was in a wooded area the ground marked with old tire tracks Carla Lane no more than Yards from the road people have been driving right Pastor for weeks. The agents didn't let the second close to Carla instead. They brought her pictures to make the identification. Carla was in bad shape was the barely recognized her.

1 (48m 2s):
And then this is saw The Ring the big gaudy ring. She had gotten after Carla for the whole thing was just

3 (48m 7s):
senseless.

1 (48m 11s):
I remember telling sooner wedding. Why don't you guys just call us? We would have gave you the money to still let her

3 (48m 16s):
go.

1 (48m 21s):
she might have been a little shit

3 (48m 23s):
but

1 (48m 25s):
she was important to us you know and I remember standing there for a minute think he

2 (48m 33s):
like

1 (48m 37s):
what the fuck am I doing way out here by myself this I had never minded searching for missing people on her own before but now suddenly she felt very alone She drove down the road to where Sunnah was waiting for her with several investigators and his family his mom's thanked, Alyssa, they huddled together as soon as made his confession. Lissa was watching Suna his rapid speech. She thought he seem traumatized. She also thought he was telling the truth. And when he was done, he came up to Lissa.

1 (49m 19s):
He said he'd disown so selfish, but I really wanted my going to go to jail today and I don't know. It seems like that question kind of made the agents

3 (49m 32s):
bad.

1 (49m 37s):
It kind of came over and started talking to me and we were like, whoa. They said what do you want? And I said well if he's the one that helping me bring my knees hold then I would like to see him stay stay out. That's what the agents did. As I said was leaving the reservation. She stopped at Devil's Lake this vast body of water that blends in with the flat and sent the Prairie around it. She got out of the car walked to the edge. I just looked out there because it's pretty there. I like that territory.

1 (50m 17s):
There's a lot of spirituality there to him. I just couldn't feel anything. I kept thinking while I was by that water thought just one feeling to just do one feeling if you can feel one thing like even if it's hate or anger or something, like listen, just come up with what I'm feeling because you think there's something wrong with you.

2 (50m 45s):
I'm only feeling I could feel was gratefulness. gratefulness to

3 (50m 52s):
sooner

1 (50m 55s):
that she didn't have to spend another day out there alone. so I put it cigarette down for Carla I smoke one a knife I left another reason Melissa still hardly tells anyone about this case a reason why it's still so hard for her has to ooh with what came afterward Lissa went to Carlos funeral Loretta Carlos Mom thanks Alyssa honored her with a star quilt but then what happened was a kind of unraveling Prosecutors began building their case against Sunnah and the two other guys responsible for Carlos murder unless the became the main point of contact for Carlos family.

1 (51m 53s):
She started going to all the legal meetings helping Carlos. Mom understand what was going on another same time. Lissa was still talking to Sunnah constantly

2 (52m 4s):
my phone ready to go get here if you want to chitchat until tonight, and I don't mind. This is well prior to little nice little most of the night last night thinking that you guys wouldn't come true. Yeah, I haven't been sleeping well either. I don't. I try to sleep somewhere, whatever it can to me. and all that,

3 (52m 31s):
but

2 (52m 35s):
yeah, I probably will make a fine head out tonight. I'll probably call you just for Just hurry,

3 (52m 43s):
um

2 (52m 46s):
kicking know that I'm still here. Yeah.

1 (52m 52s):
I first listened had a pragmatic reason to keep talking to Suna she needed him to follow through to testify in Carlos case against the two other guys involved. Lissa worried for soon as safety. He wondered witness protection. So she started calling around on his behalf when the prosecutor found out about this that Lissa was advocating for Sunnah. She made Carlos mom Loretta the spokesperson for the family and stopped inviting Lucinda meetings basically iced Lissa out the court. Stop notifying Lissa about hearings and Carlos case Court officials told her we only do that for the victims immediate family.

1 (53m 38s):
Sooner plead guilty to felony murder meaning he committed a crime that led to Carlos death, even if he didn't intend to murder her prosecutors said that Sunnah didn't plan to murder Carla. He didn't have the gun. He didn't pull the trigger but soon a plan to do prosecutors argued was to Rob Carl of drugs. The other two men involved in Carla's murder, they plead out after soon informed on them. They got 50 and 20 year sentences for list of charges that included use of a firearm conspiracy to commit robbery and second-degree murder. As soon as sentencing hearing Moses at behind Carlos mother sister and a few of Carlos kids, listen gave a statement and she actually spoke on soon as behalf.

1 (54m 23s):
She had wanted him to get probation on a lesser charge. Lissa said I was the person who brought Carla home and it wouldn't have happened without Sunnah. She said I can tell you a lot of our people are still laying and Fields and behind bushes all over this country and nobody cares. She told the judge it was so rare for people like suited to come forward to tell the truth. She asked him to show compassion to Suna because she said he showed compassion to us. The rest of the hearing Carlos mother and sister wouldn't even look at Lissa was that kept tapping the red on the shoulder, but Loretta just stared ahead ignored her. The writer was pissed.

1 (55m 5s):
How did you know Loretta was pissed because they all got on Facebook like right outside the courtroom and we're like listen yellow bird is over here taking the side of the murderer against my daughter, you know,

3 (55m 19s):
and then I kind of went out

1 (55m 23s):
How did you feel when you saw those posts? I was just like

2 (55m 31s):
well,

1 (55m 32s):
there's been a few families and she's one of them. We're just 100% ungratefulness, but I delivered. Sooner didn't kill Carla. I don't have to explain myself to anybody

3 (55m 49s):
they weren't there.

1 (55m 51s):
He didn't have to negotiate with anybody to get their loved one back. Brother wouldn't talk to me for this story. I reached out to her several times. She didn't respond sooner was sentenced to 15 years, which is actually a pretty lenient sentence for felony. Murder. But Lizzy was Furious. I've never heard her as angry at anyone as she was at the prosecutor in this case a woman named Jan morally. Those are called Jan a slithering snake who was out to get Sunnah typical of federal officials who fail tribal communities. So I called Jan the prosecutor. She's retired now.

3 (56m 28s):
I'm I'm Native American my

1 (56m 30s):
background. Oh really

3 (56m 33s):
right grew up on the turtle Mountain Indian Reservation Belfort North Dakota. It's 10 miles from the Canadian

1 (56m 39s):
border. Well, I didn't realize that listen. I didn't realize that either I asked her later. She sounded surprised. Besides I told me that in her conversations with Sunnah. She had begun to see him as a vulnerable adult maybe with a cognitive disability, but Jen didn't see him this way.

3 (56m 58s):
What is not a victim in this case Suna came forward because Sunnah wanted to save soon as

1 (57m 7s):
skin. Do you think you know he said he was scared. How do you feel about that?

3 (57m 14s):
I don't believe it. I don't think he was scared. He didn't leave immediately. He stayed there they went through her stuff. He wanted to be part of the loot.

1 (57m 32s):
So he spent a lot of time right after Carla was killed with them. You're

3 (57m 36s):
saying yeah, he they cleaned the car. They disposed of their clothing. He wanted the consumer. This is this is soon as soon as shoes were new and he wanted Sooners discussed pulled off and burning shoes too because Cinemas to had some blood on his shoes. but soon a wouldn't burn his new shoes

1 (57m 59s):
wow that was that from text messages like were you seeing sooner writing text messages being like no I don't want to burn

3 (58m 7s):
my shoes I told us about that

1 (58m 10s):
oh interesting huh you

3 (58m 12s):
said buy shoes were knew I wasn't going to burn my new

1 (58m 14s):
shoes the psoas right actually Jan had made up her mind about Sunnah even before Carlos Murder She had prosecuted his rape case 15 years earlier Jan said it was violent she remembered this when she began Prosecuting Carla's case

3 (58m 31s):
running is very conniving I wanted something to be incarcerated after his plea but he talked me out of it and I can't believe you talked me out of it but he did it was like honest-to-god genocide this and always called me by my first name to called me Janice honest to God and he is one of the most untruthful people I have ever run across he he lies he lies right to your face and he'll continue until you actually have to take the evidence put it in his face and say this is the evidence

1 (59m 18s):
the evidence in Carlos cases this in the days before Carla was killed Suna exchanged hundreds of text messages with Dakota Charbonneau Planning how to rob Carla the prosecution argued that the murder was an accident the other guy with them that night tried to threaten Carla with a gun and the gun went off. But afterward Sunnah and Dakota traded more messages about how to cover it up Jan said I didn't get to see the evidence but the story Jen told me seems so different from the one Sunnah toll plaza. I didn't know if listen to all of this. So I shared it with her. Does it change anything for you?

1 (59m 59s):
well no it doesn't I mean it's not like it's any new information being presented here I'm sure Sunnah did one is money I'm sure he did want drugs isn't that what he was there for in the beginning do I know that soon as a sexual deviant I do does that make him a murderer yeah but he was at least partially responsible for Carlos death right doesn't that matter my position is I'm unmoved I am totally

3 (1h 0m 32s):
unmoved

1 (1h 0m 42s):
This is now helping soon as lawyer prepare an appeal when I talk to Suna. He told me that he now looks to Lissa like a mom. He still calls her Lisa, but they speak almost every week. Meanwhile the San Carlos mother Loretta. They don't speak anymore. Is there any part of you that understands why they're angry? This is what I say to people. Every single time when they asked for my help, what are you willing to do to get your loved one back? What are you willing for me to do to get your level and back and you know what? The answer always is anything

3 (1h 1m 23s):
anything?

1 (1h 1m 26s):
And it's always at the end when they get what they want when the conditions come out. Because in the beginning you said you wanted to do anything. You were willing for me to do anything

3 (1h 1m 43s):
to get your loved one home. And I did that.

1 (1h 1m 51s):
In this case, the anything was a did was to connect with Sunnah to get him to trust her was this sympathy for student at doesn't surprise me. The thing that drives her to look for people. No one else is looking for it's the same thing that Drew her to Sunnah. I asked those the ones why do you do this work? She said it makes me happy. It makes me happy to help these people who have no hope left in this world. She couldn't save Chucky. She couldn't save Carla, but maybe she could still save sooner.

1 (1h 2m 34s):
Sara crane Murdock her book about Lissa which covers that first incredibly eventful case that Lissa did talks about Lissa and her family and so much more detail than we ever were able to cover here today in an hour. It is called yellow bird oil murder and a woman search for justice in Indian Country. This is something Seems quite tips like that. This is proof that no one really wants to be with me. They'll never do a goddamn thing about it. My brother was released today by Lily Sullivan people who created a show include Susan Burton Ben Calhoun Damon Shiva shankara love even to kornfeld nor Guild Damien grave Hannah.

1 (1h 3m 20s):
Jaffe wild making me clean his CT Stone Nelson Katherine raimondo. Been feeling naughty Raymond Christmas with a lemat. Tyranny and Nancy Updike or managing editors. So Diane woo and Sarah abdulrahman or executive editor is David kestenbaum special. Thanks today to Paul yellow bird McCormick Shawnee yellow bird Jesse yellow bird April Bowman's Hurricane Ike Brian Reed. Connie Walker Pat Hogue, Bianca gave her Lauren Markham Charles Hudson Allison Cohen to racer Wester Sarah dear sedated fair and Jessica Lawson, hop our website where you can stream our Archive of over 700 episodes for absolutely free This American Life dot-org This American Life is to cover the public radio stations by PRX the public radio Exchange. So thanks as always your programs co-founder.

1 (1h 4m 0s):
Mr. Troy. I'm a Latina, you know, he is amazed at how much more efficient he is working from home, you know, no more getting up at the crack of dawn climbing the radio stations broadcast tower every morning to check the temperature and wind conditions.

2 (1h 4m 13s):
You can look that shit up on the internet.

1 (1h 4m 15s):
I'm Ira Glass back next week with more stories of This American Life. I'll do it myself.