3 (1s):
Support for This American Life comes from Progressive. One of the country's leading providers of auto insurance with progressives Name Your Price tool you say what kind of coverage you're looking for and how much you want to pay and Progressive will help you find options that fit within your budget use the Name Your Price tool and start an online quote at progressive.com price and coverage match limited by state law. Everybody Ira Glass here. So here at our program during these weeks of protests and sorrow in the wake of the

2 (31s):
killing of George void.

3 (33s):
We thought that today we would offer a different way of thinking about where we are and where we might be

2 (37s):
going and we would rerun our show about afrofuturism which is a way

3 (42s):
of looking at the harsh realities of the present that at least has a little hope built-in. We first ran the show right after a very different kind of violence and very different protesters and we're seeing today. This is back in the summer of 2017 just one week after white nationalist with torches marched in Charlottesville and white supremacist. Deliberately rammed his car into a crowd killing woman named Heather higher. This is in all of our heads as we

2 (1m 6s):
made the episode. You're about to hear all of us. Wanted to feel some shred of

3 (1m 11s):
hope. So here is that original show

2 (1m 14s):
from 2017 This American Life WBZ Chicago.

1 (1m 19s):
Okay, give me a level. This is me about how much allow a talk. Now I'll go one of my co-workers here at the radio show and you know drumming and I took a field trip to Philadelphia. We're going to amalgam

2 (1m 31s):
comics and coffee. It's comic shop at the comic book store. Yeah, and also like a coffee shop then I got that familiar. Yes, but it's I think the first comic book store owned by a black woman on the East Coast

1 (1m 48s):
when the East Coast I have to add that I think we do

2 (1m 51s):
we're here because recently Neil's gotten really interested in after a futurism. And there's this whole intersection between afrofuturism in comic books the founder something called

1 (1m 59s):
the afrofuturism network is speaking at this

2 (2m 1s):
comic store on this particular day. And what exactly is after futurism. He has been prepping for this question. I don't know there's there's there's a like a long-winded academic Wikipedia explanation, which I've never even been able to internalize or remember honestly, if we're being honest what I like about futurism is just seems very it's like this way of talking about black people in a way. That's really hopeful. It's just I That we would be engaged in the same kinds of things that you know, science fiction writers have always talked about that. We would be engaged with technology that we would have a future in space that we would you know Master time travel that we would have a future in utopian or dystopian Landscapes. It's like surprising is that science fiction, that's really just the tip of the iceberg and the science fiction part is Meaningful because while there been like characters in sci-fi for a while now, they're almost never the protagonist the never the ones driving the action for so So long and so many imaginings of the future in so much science fiction.

2 (2m 58s):
There were no black people at all, which is no point out makes no sense. He says you can tell black people are going to make it into the future because they've survived so much already over the centuries the things that sort of really specific about afrofuturism that I like is that it takes in account that passed in a lot of ways. It imagines that you know, black people forms of survival through, you know, the slave trade through persecution that that's Must have technology in itself the ways in which we've come through those things how I say, yes if I will skills. Yeah, and that everything that's been a part of our culture has made it possible for us to pave the way for the future. That's the thing that I like about it. I think the feeling like despite whatever trials or travails you've come through that you will exist in the future that run.

2 (3m 46s):
It just kind of makes me it makes me Kind of like love being black. It makes me

1 (3m 52s):
feel like what I love about being black like oh, yeah. You know we can get through this. Is it known

2 (4m 5s):
about forever, you know says are now called afrofuturism old school stuff like Parliament-Funkadelic skimped out trippy rides the outer space which predates the

1 (4m 14s):
term by 20 years nausea recording. We have returned to claim here partying on the mothers. Just let me see lots of

2 (4m 28s):
famous black people excited about afrofuturism Rihanna and Solange appear in Black space-age fashion the director of Salman.

1 (4m 35s):
Ava Duvernay, it's making a TV series

2 (4m 37s):
based on a novel by the woman who's kind of a godmother to the movement sci-fi writer Octavia Butler, but after dubonnet finishes the science fiction classic A Wrinkle In Time the black actors and some of the leads and then there's Marvel making black panther into a big mainstream movie that will go over to the Childish Gambino album. That was a tribute to Parliament Funkadelic and you know mayonnaise to a couple years ago was a whole sci-fi stage show with men who lab coats the story about Androids students about

1 (5m 2s):
spaceships. My space ship leaves at 10:00 and Comics, you know, we

2 (5m 16s):
build up your Comics after all the thing it Neal was most excited to see in the comic book store was new Iron Man where and if you heard this in the comics, Tony Stark is in a coma replaced by a black teenage girl genius and she invents a suit that's like comparable to Tony Stark's Iron Man suit, which is like my favorite piece of fictional technology. Anyway as he points out replacing Tony Stark with a black teenage girl. Earl that Pierce is right into the Arc Reactor heart of the Techno superhero sci-fi Pantheon. I mean think about who Tony Stark the original Iron Man is right. He's a wealthy white man. He's like a millionaire white guy. He's the unattainable. Yeah, like it's great to have like a robot suit and like save the world but like how do most people imagine themselves in that context?

2 (6m 0s):
Yeah, whereas this girl education takes her to this place that like a billionaire once was at like that's It's inspiring. It's moving. I don't know maybe I'm being at the I was thinking about it a lot and like why is my interest been sparked so much recently. I've always loved science fiction, right? But the idea that like the idea of black people in science fiction appeals to me now because of that notion of telling your own story because the way black people are talked about it's often a bleak future and and oblique present. Yeah oblique present and maybe no future at all. You know what I mean? Yeah, and so I mean think about About like, you know, I mean if you're I don't know. I mean, I don't maybe not everyone feels this but I've been watching there's just a lot of videos of terrible things happening to black people which is I mean, it's literally like almost a genre and there's got to be a parallel narrative.

2 (6m 53s):
You know what I mean? Like, there's got to be a parallel not narrative and I think for me that the parallel narrative is afrofuturism the and so I don't know it's a way of feeling

3 (7m 3s):
like

2 (7m 6s):
it's so hard for me to say this without like laughing.

1 (7m 8s):
Myself, but it is genuinely hopeful. It's a like a way of feeling

3 (7m 11s):
hope. We sit on the

2 (7m 18s):
curb way too long talking about this and finally head inside the comic book

1 (7m 21s):
store. It's bright and spacious and smells great like

2 (7m 24s):
fresh coffee decked out in posters for Wonder Woman Spidey and X-Men and moon girl sister was busy because after futurism Enthusiast and author William Jones was there to give a lecture on the history of black people in comic books. He popped a slide of a comic book cover from the 60s under a screen 1966.

1 (7m 42s):
Now we have the introduction of the Black Panther. Okay,

2 (7m 45s):
not affiliated with the

1 (7m 47s):
Political organization and the reason why I say that is because Marvel Comics recognize that maybe people don't think we support the Black Panther Party. So they briefly changed his name to the black leopard. It didn't last and folks were not buying it. They

2 (8m 1s):
say it's the crowd is black a new area don't know when I talked to was familiar with the basic ideas and iconic figures of afrofuturism including the owner Ariel Johnson a super energetic 34g in the old talked about the subject for a while and it

3 (8m 14s):
became clear that for Neil. So

2 (8m 17s):
after futurism is really about the future

3 (8m 20s):
are y'all it's about to present something. She sees everyday

1 (8m 24s):
black people today black people who are alive and walking around. It's like we are afrofuturism. There's a quote that says I am my ancestors wildest dreams. And and I think that's that's true. It's like when we think about, you know our history in this country from when we were first brought here and the condition that they were in you know, the Items that we have now the things that we are working to accomplish and Achieve, those are only things that they could have dreamed about like in their wildest dreams. They could not have imagined. It's like I own the store, you know what I mean? And it's so I I am afrofuturism you were at 450 features on the fact that we're walking around with defying and challenging stereotypes and you know negative images.

2 (9m 10s):
It's been a hard week for stereotypes and negative images. It's been a brutal week for the past returning into the present and feeling like progress Never Comes. Then we go out to visit wonder about the future in this country where things are going against that today. We posed another way to see the world another way to look at the future in the past that puts it in some context and helps us make sense of things. Maybe give us a little hope. I'm joined in the studio right now by my colleague Neil. Hello. Hey. Hey, so, okay. So my thinking is well. Our thinking is I'm since I know really very little about this about every futurism and you know, like I think a little bit more okay more so our plan is That I'm going to go away at least till halfway through the show and you will stick around ya know.

2 (9m 54s):
I just been I've been writing pieces and talking to people all over the country about this. So if I can have you know a little bit of a grasp on it, okay. All right. So I'll see you halfway through till then. I'm going to throw some sci-fi here. You have the Conn I appreciate that. All right, stay with us. Act One Metropolis now, I started really puzzling over afrofuturism a couple of years ago when I went to an afrofuturism conference in New York up until that day at mostly heard the term used to refer to musicians Like Son Raja what is science fiction by Samuel Delaney or Colson Whitehead?

2 (10m 37s):
But at this conference they were after futurist artists designers programmers filmmakers fashionistas healers yoginis. There was even a woman selling homemade hot pepper sauce in the lobby. I began to realize that afrofuturism wasn't an art movement in the way that I thought of like cubism or impressionism. It wasn't static or rigidly defined the people at this conference who were so liberally applying the word we're doing so because they thought it made their work seemed somehow more active and vital, but I didn't understand exactly

1 (11m 6s):
how

2 (11m 13s):
As the term became more ubiquitous and the New York Times used afrofuturism to talk about Beyonce's wardrobe changes. I was still trying to figure out the essence of the thing like what makes something afro-futurist. I called the woman who'd given the keynote address back at that conference in 2015 activist and writer Adrian Marie Brown Adrienne told me that if I wanted to see afrofuturism that I should visit her hometown Detroit, Michigan a post-apocalyptic City she'd said, The Auto industry is nearly gone. The city's infrastructure is crumbling many people can afford basic resources Like Water and Light. It's like the setting for some dystopian sci-fi story. As soon as I started reading up on the place, I came across this headline in the Detroit Metro Times inside Ingrid lafleur's afro-futurist mayoral campaign.

2 (12m 0s):
Wow, there was a woman running for mayor of Detroit in the basis of her platform wasn't Socialism or libertarianism. It was afrofuturism. So I flew out there to hang out with her. I got to hear her do some fundraising give a speech talked to some potential voters and we drove

1 (12m 16s):
around and see all the different types

3 (12m 18s):
of architecture here. Ingrid is

2 (12m 20s):
striking. Technically style than glamorous yet still very Bohemian when the shock of gray and a perfectly co-opted hair. She pointed out a favorite landmarks. We visited a compact Urban Farm where they make something edible called a for Jam. We rode past a spot in Detroit's North End with George Clinton's band Parliament Funkadelic played one of his most iconic albums.

3 (12m 40s):
George Clinton did create the Mothership Connection in Detroit, and he performed it here on Oakland Avenue, which is the street that were on right now

2 (12m 50s):
taking a Order around and bragging about your hometown is what you'd expect from anyone running for mayor but it wasn't long before Ingrid the afro-futurist showed up as

3 (12m 58s):
well. The mothership is this wonderful symbol of

1 (13m 4s):
of our future space

3 (13m 6s):
and it for me, it's this reminder of this empowering future

1 (13m 11s):
space that cannot the possibilities of that

3 (13m 15s):
and how it's always present.

2 (13m 17s):
We were talking about stuff. I knew I grew up listening to Parliament records, too. And reading the comics on the album covers. I always thought it was cool Brown breaking stuff, but when Ingrid talked about it, she scaled it up to something more Grand and spiritual and a little esoteric to be honest. I found her a bit difficult to follow on this and other topics, but with her enthusiasm she was just fun to listen to anyway. I came to Detroit to find out about afrofuturism here. She was someone super eager and ready to talk about it whether or not what she said made sense to me,

3 (13m 48s):
but my My orientation even within afrofuturism has always been Cosmic. I'm a cosmic person

2 (13m 58s):
who she is discussing

3 (13m 58s):
time time can be defined in 20 million different

1 (14m 1s):
ways. It can go diagonally absolute it can go diagonally down below our feet in just like in the universe,

2 (14m 9s):
right? And here she is in the subject of lunch

3 (14m 12s):
pleasure has to resonate all through the future through your movement into your world. A pleasurable experience for me eating wives would be eating a great green

2 (14m 26s):
salad. I've been a time travel a little myself here and let you know that Ingrid LaFleur did not win the primary. She never even got on the ballot officially when I was there with the election rapidly approaching. She was still sorting out her policy points. She talked to me vaguely about Reviving Detroit's creative economy to rival The Glory Days of Motown and about the city's litter problem. Two days before the primary she published a more thorough plan that called for among other things a universal basic income for detroiters paid partly in digital currency. I guess that's pretty futuristic. But at the heart of England's campaign was an idea that I found far more compelling than any specific policy. She put forth in her plan for Detroit.

2 (15m 7s):
She writes in order to manifest true revitalization. We must consider the histories and oppressions of the Black American population the foundation of every institution government police education. The museum was built to silence disallow. Is and rendered powerless black Americans? These institutions were never created for black Americans to truly Prosper. It's time for a new plant. That's not something you hear from many politicians, but it makes sense here because Detroit is 80% black fixing the city means fixing it for black people Ingrid's use black Americans as the protagonist in the story of Detroit his future and it's past

3 (15m 53s):
when I was growing up people love to say it was like a hundred and ten percent black. It was super black.

1 (16m 1s):
Just

2 (16m 1s):
black. This is the other thing about Ingrid. Maybe she's idealizing. I wouldn't know but she carries a shining vision of Detroit's past with her everywhere. She goes we drove past vacant houses and empty lots so much of Detroit is falling apart neglected or abandoned but Underneath It All She still sees a vibrant City populated with a thriving black middle

3 (16m 22s):
class grew up walking through this park at dusk there would be people riding bikes jogging being playing squash at dusk like it's getting you know dark and I my mother and I we felt completely comfortable and safe walking through these Woods

2 (16m 42s):
in the car. We talked about afrofuturism at one point. I told her about the conference that I've been to and how by now I'd heard the word afrofuturism used to describe everything from comic books to condiments, but it wasn't coming into Focus for me. I was starting to wonder if it was just a term for putting a positive spin on anything a black person has ever done or Ever do like I was moved by the optimism that seems

1 (17m 4s):
inherent in a few chosen, but I was also like if you it's everything then what is the point of it Point imagining a more healthier present and future and kind of recontextualizing the past so that it's empowering instead of victimizing. It's Our way of not only surviving but it's also way of healing within the moment because there's constant trauma that we're dealing with historical and present-day. So it's a way of allowing ourselves to shape-shift to accommodate.

1 (17m 48s):
Whatever comes our

2 (17m 49s):
way Ingrid eventually drop me back at my hotel earlier. She'd given me a greasy brown bag containing a cookie, which I now finally got around to eating it turned out to be the most delicious gluten-free. Ever tasted but I was still feeling hungry and a bit confused by our conversation. Whatever bigger points. You've been making about afrofuturism. I was afraid that it had been lost on me. I went looking for a burger and a stiff drink to mull that over at a bar over bourbon. I met a guy that I'm gonna call Sam with dark skin and hints of gray and his sideburns that betrayed his boyish face. He was dressed for a night on the town light Blazer Burberry shirt pattern silk scarf.

2 (18m 29s):
I asked him and another Patron both Detroit residents. If they'd heard of Ingrid LaFleur for mayor they had when Sam got up to pay his check after we'd only been talking for a few minutes. He surprised me by asking if I wanted to go with him to check out some of the other spots around town. I wasn't dressed for it and I'd left my recording equipment in my room. But what the hell Sam said it was okay for me to describe what happened next Sam had a nice car a Mercedes and never cost him more than ten dollars to park it in a God he loved that about Detroit parking was so cheap. He moved here from New York sometime in the late 90s and Fallen hard for the city as we drove. He talked at the real estate.

2 (19m 10s):
He talked about his job and the IT business. He ran out of his home things seem to be going well. We met up with Sam's friend Rick a bald bearded alpha male type in a reddish leather jacket and followed him and his new BMW to a place called The griot. It was the type of establishment what's commonly referred to as grown and sexy Rick ordered another round of bourbon and some wings and flirted with the bartender by now. It was clear that these guys were looking to meet women and that was weird because of this thing that Sam had told me earlier while we were in the car together, he'd said that not too long ago. His wife had gotten sick and he taken care of Her for a year, and then she died leaving Sam and their teenage son with only each other.

2 (19m 56s):
Sam didn't actually want to be doing what we were doing tonight. This is like only his second timeout as a single man. He didn't feel ready to meet women to date but he also felt like it was time. He couldn't wait forever. So he was doing what he felt like he had to do to move forward salmon Rick took me to a few different spots. If that night but the one that I remember the most was a place called floods from the outside. It looks like a common Family Restaurant. I thought it was closed until we rounded the corner and saw the cluster of people leaving their cars with the valet. Inside floods was huge. Sam said it was probably about 2,500 square feet a massive bar separated two rooms at one point.

2 (20m 41s):
There was both a band and a DJ playing simultaneously and wall-to-wall. They were well-dressed grown-up black folks dancing and singing along to classic soul Funk and R&B. It reminded me of how Ingrid had described the Detroit she grew up in and it's thriving black middle class A hundred and ten percent black. She said super black just That I've been drinking all night. So yeah, I was already a little in my feelings, but I swear I teared up at the side of it.

1 (21m 8s):
All Sam hadn't wanted to come to

2 (21m 14s):
floods at first because he thought too many people would recognize him. I think he didn't want to be judged for being out on the town after his wife's death. And when we walked in he seemed a little uncomfortable we split up for a while and later. He found me standing in a corner at the edge of the Dance Floor mesmerised. He pulled out his phone and showed me the He just gotten of a beautiful woman who walked in earlier and drawn quite a bit of attention earlier in the day Ingrid said a bunch of afro-futurist stuff to me about Detroit shape-shifting and Reckoning with its past and healing I felt like I was seeing some smaller version of that now with Sam most days he was probably just a guy in some pain struggling to survive this very traumatic thing that happened but tonight in spite of that Sam was imagining a better future and doing something about it.

2 (22m 2s):
It he smiled shouted some words of encouragement at me over the music and waited back into the crowd. The spirits were up

1 (22m 10s):
this evening wasn't over. back to past imperfect

2 (22m 43s):
So this is idea that occurs over and over and afrofuturism that summed up basically says the past is always with us. It affects us. It has the power to make us stronger. If we learn how to use it properly some West African cultures represent this idea what the image of What's called the Sankofa bird. It's a bird walking forward. But with its head Looking Backward meaning no matter what we carry the past with us into the future. In one of the most well-known afrofuturism novels Kindred by Octavia Butler the main character finds herself traveling back and forth between her normal contemporary life in the present and the world of our ancestors in the Antebellum South where she's treated like a slave and the two time periods start to merge that's fiction.

2 (23m 27s):
Our next story is told by a woman who went to a version of that in real

3 (23m 30s):
life when I graduated from NYU with the ba and drama and a mostly unplanned double major in anthropology. My mother asked me. What are To do with that act in a museum. This seemed especially rude coming from a sociologist, but she had a point for the first few years of my adult life. That's exactly what I did.

2 (23m 51s):
During those years a see Dungey was living in our home town a suburb of Washington DC working as an actor at night and plays for which he was paid almost nothing and to make some extra cash for Christmas. She took a gig time traveling to the least desirable job with 18th century. She was a slave or she played one. Anyway performing for Torres had George Washington's estate Mount Vernon for weekend events called Mount Vernon by

3 (24m 14s):
candlelight the halls of the Mansion were decked for Christmas visitors would walk through stopping in each room. To meet a character and hear their monologue about the season there was mrs. Washington beloved wife. Dr. James craic Washington's position and best bud Nelly custis sweet-natured granddaughter and me Caroline Branham slave. I had a script that I used to talk about Caroline's life. It was short besides the odd. I'm a slave at Christmas to a slave to my husband and kids joke from 40 year old white women people were interested and awful After Christmas, I decided to stay on the job.

3 (24m 55s):
It started out fine. The winter weather met the visitors were mostly local and relatively few. I enjoyed my daily walks on the tree lined Lanes soft snow falling on my hooded Mulberry colored Cape as I looked out at the stunning view of the Potomac River and when it was too cold, I would stay in the library and read through musty old books and primary source letters and notations that helped me understand this distant world. I inhabited and the woman By portrayed I was Caroline Branham a real woman. Who'd been housemaid to mrs. Washington. I studied Caroline's life and times for months and every day when I put on a beautiful Crimson dressed with tiny yellow and green flowers.

3 (25m 37s):
I became her with each eyelet. I laced on my corset. I felt myself get closer to her posture how her body related to the world with my hair pulled back in two large french braids under a bonnet. I sat on a bench and set my fingers to the Caroline did rows of stitches on shirts and brightly colored embroidery. I could picture her laying down her head at night next to her husband Peter and their six children Wilson Rachel Jemima length, Polly and little Peter. I imagined how she hoped that one day. They would wake up in a world better than the one she'd been given.

3 (26m 19s):
Then spring came and tourists from around the country started pouring into Mount Vernon. My job was to simply be available to the visitors to talk to them and answer their questions as Caroline this time, there was no script and I realized pretty quickly that just being their existing as a black woman in that place was a threat to the fantasy of a noble America. I was the stain on George, Washington's White House. And I watched them grapple with this right in front of me me the least confrontational human being you'll ever meet. I mean it took me till I was 25 years old to tell my mom. I did not like her baked tofu smothered and crafts barbecue sauce.

3 (26m 60s):
Some people were so uncomfortable with me that they bumbled through the first random thing that came to their mind your slave. Oh, okay. So are the vegetables in the garden real fake vegetables. This is an outdoor Garden. They are literally coming out of the ground and there's a man standing there watering them. Or they immediately asked questions with obvious answers that they just hadn't thought through why don't you go up to Massachusetts and go to school instead of being a slave one person asked right as soon as I can get rid of this very obvious brown-skinned steal a horse in a map that I can't read. I will be on my way or they'd go into immediate denial mode like the old woman who out of nowhere yelled at me George Washington had no slaves.

3 (27m 48s):
I said, yes he did. She responded. No, he didn't and this went on back and forth until her son got embarrassed and pulled her away. Or they offered another offense as some sort of Defense, but the Irish were slaves to okay, that's not really true. And what the hell does that have to do with me? And of course there were those who would take the opportunity to teach me instead, you know slavery was a good industrious life where you got room and board for your work. Hmm a one-room cabin, they built themselves with eight people sleeping on a dirt floor and a bag of corn Mill every week room and board.

3 (28m 27s):
It was just a bizarre situation to be in playing Caroline. I'd be sitting next to Miss Nelly and the midst of Her role play who'd be going on and on about the lovely letters that are dear Grandpapa George Washington had written her or all the fancy Suarez that she attended. We'd be in the greenhouse with a gorgeous Garden outside on an estate that overlooked the Potomac. I'd literally here white visitors sigh listening to Miss Nelly read from her letters full of nostalgia for this time. Long gone. They talked about how much simpler things were back then how touching George Washington's letters were What a fine man.

3 (29m 8s):
Anne and how lucky Miss Nellie was to live such a Charming Life it was Charming. I was Charmed by it. Then it be my turn. Here's what I talked about how my husband is rented from this is Washington's relative. Now, we could be sent back at any time how I go home to my cabin at night. Hoping that none of my children have been

2 (29m 29s):
sold that

3 (29m 31s):
once my friend was whipped so bad her fingers were torn and she couldn't so for three weeks all real

2 (29m 37s):
stuff from Caroline branham's life.

3 (29m 40s):
One time an old lady just walked up to me while I was talking hugged me whispered. I'm

2 (29m 45s):
sorry and walked away

3 (29m 47s):
another time. A man handed me a $20 bill. So I guess that was reparations. And Caroline's day there were typically no more than ten white people who lived in the Washington household at any given time. Meanwhile, there were three hundred sixteen slaves and who was there to tell their story me? I was the only black actor. So I felt like it was up to me to be all 316 people to research them too. So I could talk

2 (30m 15s):
about my friend the

3 (30m 16s):
blacksmith or delfi the wool spinner. I learned so much about being a slave that to this day. There is space in my brain devoted to the This information like I can tell you how to shine silver with horse urine which herbs to use to make your owner sick, but not killer how beating a slave and then dousing them with salt water to disinfect. The wounds was called pickling

2 (30m 38s):
pickling. I

1 (30m 40s):
hate that I know that as my time at Mount Vernon went

3 (30m 50s):
on I began to notice there was something that would happen in. Killer with white men. It was like almost despite themselves. They would act out the power Dynamic from 1797. I can remember at least five times when a white man of a certain age sat on a bench way too close to me and said something like I used to be into a black girl back when I was young then he would pause presumably waiting for my response. What am I supposed to say to that exactly? Thank you. Once a man got physical I was walking down the lane on a particularly hot and busy day when at all Burly white man grabbed my arm pulled me towards him and said show me where your branded I was startled and could only get out the words sir.

3 (31m 37s):
I haven't been branded and then he and his wife began laughing heartily. Well, you got a good up here. We're from South Carolina and they branded him down there girl. You got it good and then one time one of Guys, I work with also in costume wearing a tricorn hat. He and I were walking from the farm back to the mansion and we decided to take the Forest Trail. We were having a nice normal conversation when out of the blue he says hey, let's reenact a slave rape you tear up your clothes a little bit and go running out of the forest screaming and I'll follow behind you pulling on my pants. He laughed. I didn't say anything.

3 (32m 17s):
I just sort of tittered tittered. That's an old-timey fancy way of saying I laughed with the bastard. I laughed because I didn't know what else to do because I felt completely and utterly powerless. I started calling in sick a lot because I was sick a lot. My stomach would twist and turn I would sometimes get a choking feeling and cough as if Vomit but nothing was there. I had terrible headaches and I couldn't do anything but sleep and one day it occurred to me that Caroline felt this way to this exact way the farm manager who oversaw slaves on the mansion house Farm noted that Caroline quote complained of a pain in her head inside and had quote a very dry bad cough George Washington's friend.

3 (33m 9s):
Dr. Craic is recorded as having treated her for such bad stomach pains that he had to bleed her. Her give her stomach drops and prescribed 20 pills for bowel obstruction. My job was to inhabit Caroline's life, but she started inhabiting mine. I had this weird Sensation that I was living in multiple time periods at once like the Sankofa bird. I started seeing Mount Vernon everywhere in the modern world an evolutionary psychologist wrote a blog post for psychology today where he claimed that he'd objectively proves that black women are the least attractive of all Races of women with science. This happened in the year of Our Lord 2011.

3 (33m 52s):
I saw this only a few days after reading Thomas Jefferson's Notes on the state of Virginia for work. Apparently Jefferson. Who by the way was known to have slaves with the lightest skin possible. I'd come to the same conclusion about my race and gender over 200 years ago. He said that black men prefer white women and black women are preferred by orangutans. Oh, so that's why I'm single. Then Trayvon Martin. I was watching the news one evening about a black boy harassed and pursued by a white latino, man who was convinced that he didn't belong in his neighborhood and because of this compulsion the innocent black boy ended up dead.

3 (34m 34s):
My heart was in my gut the first thought that came into my head. He didn't have his pass pass. I shook it off. No that can't be right. When a slave left their Plantation they had to carry a pass from their master or overseer saying where they were going and when they were expected to return not having your past or your free papers, if you were free was dangerous at any time. Any white person could stop you and demand to see your past if you didn't produce it you were thrown in jail. Having black skin alone was enough to make you suspicious and a white stranger could be the judge and jury of your fate Trayvon. Martin didn't have his pass.

3 (35m 17s):
There's a thing white people say to black people all the time. I've had it said to me, why don't you just get over it it being slavery and all historical oppression. Why don't you just get over it? They say it's in the past. What I would say to white people in response is that you're not over the past every year you flock from all over the country to Mount Vernon and other places like it The Monuments and museums and reenactments. There's Presidents Day and the fireworks that blast over George Washington's house every fourth of July. There are the Confederate flags and statues of Robert E. Lee's that you don't want taken down. No, I can't get over it and neither.

3 (35m 58s):
Can you none of us can

2 (36m 8s):
Easy Dungey these days. She's co-executive producer on a new comedy from Lena wave called 20s and writing a book of essays about her experiences at Mount Vernon called how I survived the 18th century.

1 (36m 38s):
Coming up we walk from the past Back to the Future 2 daveed Diggs and an underwater world of

2 (36m 43s):
tomorrow. That's in a minute from Chicago public radio when our program

3 (36m 47s):
continues. Support for This American Life comes from Progressive Progressive has you covered when it comes to car insurance starting with built-in savings like discounts for being a safe driver and you can also save when you start your quote online or have multiple vehicles on your policy. In fact drivers who switch and save with Progressive save $750 on average start a quote online and see all the discounts for yourself at progressive.com National annual average auto insurance savings by new customers, sir. Paid in 2019 potential savings may vary discounts vary and are not available in all states and situations. This is American wife.

3 (37m 27s):
Myra glass today's program. We are in the future which was first broadcast in 2017 a show inspired by afrofuturism, which my coworker Neil drumming became interested in back. Then as a lens to view the future the past and the present

2 (37m 41s):
when we made this episode a few years ago. We named it after an album by the experimental jazz artists Unruh. We are in the future. And now here we are in the future 3 years later. It does not look good here. And it feels even worse in terrifying ways. It resembles the futures of so many dystopian sci-fi novels that I was once happy to think of as merely fiction still even though this episode was created from hopefulness Pain confusion rage. They were all baked into it because that is the reality of being black in America. Afrofuturism doesn't say that black people won't still be fighting for rights dignity breath, even as private corporations are building Rockets to send Taurus into space afrofuturism just asserts that we will still be here then and that fight will still be in US.

2 (38m 35s):
Here's a song by son Raja a little bit of call and response. It's called the space age is here to

1 (38m 41s):
stay. It's gonna be like your ancestor say even though they're cold and Dead Space Age is here to stay. Yes. The space ain't

2 (38m 58s):
exactly at 3 the Black Sea. So this one I know about there's this hip hop group called clipping.

3 (39m 5s):
It's still hard to Jonathan Snaps and daveed Diggs

2 (39m 7s):
who listeners might know to be digs on the soundtrack to Hamilton. He plays a Lafayette and Thomas Jefferson and we commissioned clippings right a

3 (39m 13s):
Sci-Fi story for us a song. And with the maid was a tribute

2 (39m 18s):
to a Detroit banned from the 90s called drekia and drexy ahead created this whole mythology in their

3 (39m 25s):
band and mythology was based on the idea that pregnant African women on slave ships were sometimes thrown overboard and Rexy imagined that the babies.

2 (39m 35s):
Survived and learn to live and Thrive underwater and that the babies found it a black Atlantis under the sea and so in this song that coming right for us, the civilization

1 (39m 45s):
undersea was living peacefully for centuries unaware

2 (39m 48s):
that humans were above on land until those of us who live on the surface we intruded on their underwater Civilization by firing seismic

3 (39m 55s):
air cannons

2 (39m 56s):
into their world looking for oil and then they kind of slowly over the course of the song. You heard they slowly rise to the surface Psych. Up for war so you'll hear the air cannons. You'll hear them come to the surface. Anyway, you hear it off. Here's the song.

1 (40m 20s):
Yeah, I remember how deep it go. Started From The Bottom y'all remember how deep it go for y'all had to come back deep y'all remember when it used to be deep so deep so so deep when you swim about your mama while your mama was asleep.

2 (40m 45s):
So deep

1 (40m 46s):
so deep. Hey, and y'all remember when I had the Dance Floor lick dark note to step 2. Yeah, I don't even sweat dig as deep busy gets dreaming dead asleep and keeping time y'all heart beating y'all heartbeat day and all the fishes. Have they got eyes bugged out cause y'all dancing under water and y'all don't get wet in the dark smells sweet and y'all Tails touch Reef. Y'all feet off the bottom, but now y'all remember Y'all remember y'all remember when the Deep got hot when y'all move on up how y'all used to argue about the water getting warmer still yellow the little bit of Light Up In The Deep so deep so so deep.

1 (41m 51s):
Y'all remember saying how the couldn't be them to pegs because y'all came from two pegs and y'all mamas would have loved y'all if they couldn't breathe but they wasn't ready for the Deep so deep so so deep ain't y'all remember when the first blast came

2 (42m 9s):
and the beat fell off and the dreams got woke and the light bent bad and the fish's belly up and then poor old castles crumble because they wasn't quite enough in conversation used to break like the floor quake.

1 (42m 21s):
The bleached bones and the thin friends fled from their home, but the blast wouldn't stop cuz they wanted black gold and them no Hills had to feel it because they couldn't be told y'all remember now. Remember 35 PSU bottom pH 7 .9 Yeah, remember when I'm raising change that note, please no comes these let the water dries so deep. So so deep oil slick upon the sleeper was an awful thing to realize if the two legs Want to Wake the Dead they will have to bring my fire y'all is closer to the Earth.

1 (43m 6s):
So did y'all was talking how to get up in their heads and got to being real inspired circumstances of the person's got y'all feeling like an army but he had a baby and they gon give y'all the blessing now, you're going crazy. They live with green upon the surface, but they ain't cheap that pistol shrimp or NACA to leg off his feet. Yeah. Affecting the steamboy to rip up the ship's they using Sonar a second language option with it and all the dreamers is woke now in Nightmare swim, but everybody heard that Bruno y'all coming for them. Now remember remember remember when the call went out a no deep no more defense.

1 (43m 52s):
Don't remember when the call went out no deep no more defense. Don't remember feeling wind up on your skin. No deep no more defense. You remember how it burning the beginning though deep fried. The bottom right on y'all remember seeing Sun across the surface on the day that your first came about the water hole. So deep how the breaking of the service of the sky without a border in the air was so much how to hold so deep how the world came on screen. Then it Rose High and the waist dressed up like a mountain high and the no gills gas in a closed ass and they pray to their gods and the gasps why and then y'all try to cause y'all recognize mama in the faces of the ones that you would terrorize they were sisters and brothers. They were the baby's born about the water not connected to each other not a knowledge of the one dropped to say at has learned to say gotta one shot doesn't come burn today. Let them feel the dark.

1 (44m 33s):
Seifer today make it two legs but leave her today let him know that they don't covid sleeper from a sleep. So deep the top and dancing without any seat. So so deep there's a nerve that they struck with a blast. They broke with a drill that they burnt with a gas. Y'all remember that remember that remember that remember when you had to let him breathe out hi. He digs her husband Jonathan Snipes and clipping the song commissioned by your program.

1 (45m 17s):
Only first

3 (45m 18s):
broadcast Today show ended up on their album The Deep which you can find with other music at their website the website. Is there band's name, which is the word clipping without the vowels clpp

2 (45m 30s):
Ng.com. At for childhoods end looking into afrofuturism over the past few months. I found myself thinking about time and space a lot time because so many of these stories involve people thinking about the past or the future or seeing the past and the future in the here and now and space because all of that time travel is cued by very specific places Detroit or Mount Vernon or Philadelphia or wherever During those same months. I also became sort of obsessed with these two videos that I saw on YouTube. I couldn't help connecting them in my mind because for me they were both about a particularly precious intersection of time and space the time is that period when children have left school for the day but haven't yet made it home and the space is that distance?

2 (46m 21s):
However, many blocks however many miles it takes those kids to walk from one to the other in other words. These two videos are about those moments when the out in the world on their own in adults they bump into You may have seen the first video. It takes place in Atlantic City to black teenagers and sweatpants and sneakers are fighting in the middle of a residential street on their way home from school. When a slightly older black man it Ben Ali Miller emerges from camera, right and puts an end to the fight with a Stern but passionate talking to the clip went viral Miller was honored by the city Steve Harvey had him on his couch. I saw it for the first time on my Facebook feed this past winter and have viewed it on YouTube many times since It does not disappoint.

2 (47m 6s):
It gets better every time I

1 (47m 8s):
watch it.

2 (47m 13s):
When it begins the two boys grapple and flail at each other sloppily one tall one chubby. Both defiant other kids crowd around recording with their cell phones egging them

1 (47m 23s):
on Squaw.

2 (47m 28s):
Then seemingly out of nowhere Miller pops into frame his hands in his pockets wearing work boots and a knit cap. He immediately starts to call out the kids who are

1 (47m 37s):
recorded. Forms of all y'all a real college record that truth everybody on the phone record that power and everybody was calling the phone real coward cowards Miller

2 (47m 48s):
calls them. Then he turns his attention to the two boys in

1 (47m 51s):
the center to really upset you really upset you more mad. And he's like it's eating his face. So you find for reason you only find you because you want to fight him. Did you imagine so I don't even know so you defending yourself

2 (48m 7s):
never listens and then he tells the boys something they probably hadn't considered that they were most likely tricked into fighting by someone who thought it would be entertaining and now all of their so-called friends are recording them go at

1 (48m 19s):
it. Who told you wrong you are internet? You said who told you wrong the Louvre and always want to say this all yo because you're almost me all the yo-yo got almost a million kids no more y'all girls and little girls no more. Y'all look out y'all men. Yo, yo, man. Yo 14 15 16 sent your men for egging like yo, we can get nowhere like this. Yo,

2 (48m 44s):
we ain't gonna get nowhere like this. He says here what Miller does that? I love steer the conversation away from personal grievances. Something bigger he tries to tell these kids that they are part of a community. He tells them that their actions have consequences and those consequences only get more serious as they get older without condescending to them Miller talks to them about their

1 (49m 5s):
Futures because a game You know game out here is well out here little bro. We're up. Don't make your parents look like this. Yo, if you live around here listen with good mess that up.

2 (49m 18s):
He's no longer. Just trying to get them to save face or avoid humiliation. He's warning the board. Is that as they become men young black men, the world will become even more dangerous for them. Miller won't leave until the to shake hands. They don't want to at first only the chubby kid extends his hand.

1 (49m 37s):
Not least Rush a game. But you say you can

2 (49m 40s):
take the other kid doesn't the chubby kid pulls his hand

1 (49m 43s):
back with your head. He does.

2 (49m 59s):
It's actually difficult for me to express how moved I was by this video the beauty of it. Is that even while Miller is insisting that these teenagers become responsible for themselves his actions demonstrate that they are not necessarily alone that there is compassion and wisdom and guidance available to them. It was like a window into a world where people who don't know each other. So give a damn the window that I could rewind and re-watch and forward to my friends to click like it wasn't once exhilarating and comforting a road. Hi for a week, maybe two then another video popped up in my Facebook feed. This one is shakier and from a low angle obviously recorded surreptitiously the view is of the intersection of Bedford Avenue and campus Road Midwood High School on one side of the street Brooklyn College is on the other I recognized it immediately because I used to live 10 minutes away.

2 (50m 52s):
There's still snow on the ground and the cell phone is buffeted about by wind. It's camera wobbles up behind two uniformed police officers walking slowly down campus Road. The one on the left has both hands in his pockets. The one on the right has his baton already drawn a handful of black teenagers walk obstinately before them headed away toward Flatbush Avenue. There's no way to know for sure what happened before the video started rolling. There were most likely the beginnings of a snowball fight, but it's unclear who was unhappy about that. The police were not called they were already on site in the footage. One of the cop says come on.

2 (51m 32s):
Let's go. So the kids are already going the cop on the right reaches out. It looks like he shoves a boy in a pink hoodie. The boy flinches snapping his head

1 (51m 41s):
around

2 (51m 43s):
stop touching me. He says the cop responds with what are you going to do about it, which is obnoxious and a stupid question, but that doesn't stop him from asking it at least five more times like a kid taunting another kid. at one point one of the teenagers fires back that's why we out it sounds badass but if you think about it the kid is saying we're walking away because we can't do anything about it and we all know that another kid in the procession kneels down to pick up some snow with his left hand the cop on the right pulls his taser out of his holster and

1 (52m 23s):
Barks

2 (52m 27s):
Pick that up again rock paper scissors snowball taser the kids keep walking away the copy. I was pick that up again one more time and follows with

1 (52m 40s):
do you want to ride the lightning?

2 (52m 43s):
The video ends as the kids cross the street to safety and the cops stop on the corner. I know I know it seems like you can see worse more unjust things happen to black people on YouTube just about any day of the week here. Fortunately, no one was hurt. But this video was still hard to watch especially having seen how it Ben Ali Miller talked those kids down in Atlantic City. Where as Miller was trying to get the teenagers to think a little bit more like adults the cop in this video sounded like a teenager himself bullying and provoking. What's worse. He almost seemed to be enjoying it. It's hard to imagine he cared anything at all about what happened to those kids after they deserted that corner.

2 (53m 30s):
I told my friends about this video to I sent the link around it wasn't as popular clip is the one with Miller. I read everything I could about it. I found out that the kids most likely went to Midwood high school and a few weeks later. I went in Midwood high school and stood on the corner of Bedford Avenue and campus Road. I wanted to find someone who had witnessed the incident. I was angry on behalf of those young men and I wanted to know how they felt. Yes. I found one of them immediately and then the others found

1 (53m 59s):
me. We also black kid from revolver. Also black is from the toilet.

2 (54m 6s):
Once they're in tapered grey sweats and colorful knapsacks. They told me they came to the spot almost every day, but chicken and fries and rice slap box with each other kicked it with girls and waited for the rest of their crew to go play basketball down the block. They wanted to know what my microphone was for and if they could get money and girls from being on the radio and if I could buy them lunch, I asked them what they were doing on the day that the video was recorded. One of them said he was cutting class other said they weren't I asked them why they think the cops came since their high school has its own security. One of them said that some other kids across the street were throwing snow end the cops thought it was us one of the boys had it was them but still it was only snowballs.

1 (54m 58s):
We were just having fun.

2 (54m 59s):
I asked if they were scared when it happened a couple of sixteen-year-olds cooler than I'd ever been at that age said no, I'm not really a fourteen-year-old said emphatically, of course, he was six to my hide. I was surprised at how tall some of the boys were none of them older than 16. I was also surprised at how not angry they seemed I grew up about 45 minutes from here and a similar neighborhood in Queens not so long ago. I thought but when I asked them why they thought this had happened to them at all one of the older boys talk to me like he was explaining why humans need food.

1 (55m 33s):
The cop was white.

2 (55m 41s):
Maybe this is just me, but I look back on walks home from school as my first real flirtations with Independence a sacred time and space between my teachers rules and my parents restrictions. The kids in that video. This was their school. This is their neighborhood most of the ones I talked to live only four or five blocks away. As far as they were concerned. This was their corner. I can't imagine what it would feel like to be firmly in your time and space and run up against a cop with a taser threatening to electrocute you if you don't put down that

1 (56m 10s):
snowball

2 (56m 18s):
what's crazy to me is that I've walked through this intersection at Bedford Avenue and campus Road past the high school and through the Brooklyn College campus many times in the last few years beneath its Landmark gilded Clock Tower Brooklyn College could be a campus quad from a corny 1950s film except teeming with students from cultures all over New York something about it practically screams. Welcome things only get better from here. Young black man in that video came out of their high school that day and stood at the edge of that promise. What could be the next great space and time in their lives was a college literally across the street, but they were shoot away told they didn't belong as far as metaphors go. This one couldn't be less ambiguous.

2 (56m 59s):
But none of this seemed to bother the boys or at least not that they let on this was not the first time that they had been made to feel unwelcome. So close to home and school if they weren't festering with resentment. They weren't seen the tragedy and at that I was seeing After I finish talking to them, I went across the street to find the Brooklyn college professor who had recorded the incident Alex Batali teaches sociology and also happens to run the schools policing and social justice project leaving work that day. He'd seen the two cops descend on Bedford Avenue and campus Road followed them and it was his recording that ended up on YouTube as well as a few local news websites. We talked briefly about how repeated incidents like this could affect the boys psyches.

2 (57m 40s):
He agreed that no matter how cool they seem now. Over time their hopes for their own Futures could possibly darken but then Alex asked me how old I was when I told him 43. He said that I'd missed the height of the stop-and-frisk era. I was not a teenager or even a young man in New York City when unprompted police harassment was at its worst. So the taser incident outraged me, but what these kids had seen their older brothers sisters and in some cases parents go through a conditioned them to be a bit more stoic. It stung a little bit to have this white academic told me that I couldn't quite relate to a young black man's experience. I guess when I first approached those boys a part of me hoped that like a banali Miller in the Atlantic City video.

2 (58m 22s):
I would just roll up out of nowhere. I know everything about their world that they know plus some more instead. I was just another adult taking their time and invading their

3 (58m 32s):
space.

1 (59m 1s):
Well program has produced a by near drowning and Stephanie Foo our staff include Susan Burton Ben Calhoun. So he chased the inactivation Cole Whitney Dangerfield Kimberly Henderson. Carnage off he walked in cast him down Seth land be a Parker Province at me and Christopher Sir

2 (59m 13s):
Topham Hatt. Tyranny, Julie Whitaker and Diane whoo, our senior

1 (59m 16s):
producer for today's show is Brian and read additional help with this rerun from nor Gill and stone Nelson special. Thanks today to frankly a toenail Hopkinson Detroit Robinson Cheney Hilton Neva Middleton, Steve Kaplan. Stephen Henderson leads veto Solange Franklin ever

2 (59m 30s):
narcisse brace Detroit cheer Morrow and Denmark

1 (59m 32s):
Vesey our website with his music video to go with clipping underwater sci-fi song. You heard earlier. Also the artist Paul Davey did not original art for today's show that's This American Life dot-org This American Life is Beautiful the public radio stations by PRX the public radio exchange thanks as always your programs co-founder mr. Troy Matthew who had the most disappointing lot a of his entire life this week he asked her

3 (59m 55s):
extra foam extra cream but it did not come that way

1 (59m 59s):
it was like a hundred and ten percent black it was super fast it was just black and Ira Glass back next week for more stories at This American Life

3 (1h 0m 31s):
this America