2 (1s):
Support for This American Life comes from Squarespace make your website your own with the ability to customize the look and feel settings products and more for a free trial of your new website. Visit. Squarespace.com American and enter American Squarespace. Think it dream it make it. Support for This American Life comes from Progressive. One of the country's leading providers of auto insurance with progressives Name Your Price tool you say what kind of coverage you're looking for and how much you want to pay and Progressive will help you find options that fit within your budget use the Name Your Price tool and start an online quote at progressive.com price and coverage match limited by state law.

2 (46s):
A quick warning. There are curse words that are unbeaten today's episode of the show. If you prefer a beep version, you can find that at our website This American Life dot-org. WBZ Chicago with this american guy from Ira Glass. It's been such an extraordinary and painful few weeks since the killing of George Floyd and we have a show today with people in scenes that we recorded this past week trying to capture what this moment feels like and how different people are reacting and what they're doing and I know usually right here at the top of the show I jump right in with some story, but I think it actually captures what lots of people are feeling this week a lot better to start with this essay.

2 (1m 27s):
One of our producers the amount of wood may be she is the year. I came to live and work in America 962 people were shot and killed by police across the country or maybe the number was 1093. It depends on who you ask about 2016. One project that counted the dead found that black males aged 15 to 34 were nine times more likely than other Americans to be killed by law enforcement. In case you've become fuzzy on timelines Michael Brown was shot by police in Ferguson, Missouri in 2014 Walter Scott was shot in the back by police in Charleston South Carolina in 2015 in 2016.

2 (2m 9s):
Alton Sterling was killed by police in Baton Rouge Louisiana and a day later in Falcon Heights, Minnesota police shot and killed falando Castile while he was in his car with his partner and her four-year-old daughter those last two incidents were recorded. Both were viewed by the public at large at the time Sterling and Castile were killed in 2016. I've been living in New York for four months. I'd come to America to report on the presidential election campaigns with a wry British. I I no longer have the original text of my Visa application. But I remember distinctly that it mentioned both the 19th century French social scientists Alexis de tocqueville and the late British journalist, Alistair Cooke.

2 (2m 53s):
Both Alexis and Alistair were men of letters operating in very different eras of American upheaval. The aim of their writing was to help readers back home understand the unique American situation. They were good names to put on a visa application. It indicated. I knew my literary lineage the reality is that beyond the common ground of our jobs. I wasn't really like Alexis or Alistair and move through the world differently. I was a woman. I was a Muslim. I was a child of working-class immigrants born to parents who themselves were born in an African country still under the Yoke of the English Monarchy, and of course, I was black.

2 (3m 35s):
I still am. Thanks to the spread of Empire. I'm no stranger to the project of colonization of all the things I would be reporting on and experiencing firsthand in America. The subject of Blackness was the thing with which I have the most literal most lived experience British police have historically not used guns like their American counterparts, but the history of disproportionate black death during and after interactions with police in the UK Tells A Familiar story. The lyrics are different, but the melody is old and known to me. That's the horrible thing about this moment. I've been here before.

2 (4m 16s):
And so when George Floyd was killed in Minneapolis on Memorial Day in the last week of May. I had a feeling of resigned Deja Vu police had arrested a man and then less than a half hour later that man was dead the manner of it a cop's knee pressing down on his neck for 8 minutes and 46 seconds, but like a stage play with all seen before. The fact that it had been recorded that proper like a sort of sacred practice. The mundane location of it was familiar to a regular Street suddenly transformed into an arena for public death. The echo of some of Floyd's dying words are really the same as Eric Garner's in 2014.

2 (5m 0s):
I can't breathe even that but like an on-the-nose re-run of a series called how to die in America. Almost every element of what happened. Next hit the exact Beat It was supposed to the video of his life being snuffed out went viral tabloid newspapers brought up his criminal past protests began the day after he was killed against police brutality. Yes, but also against the organizing principle of colonialism in general and explicitly against the ideology of white supremacy itself, and it wasn't just black people yelling things shifted. Something was different by the end of the week.

2 (5m 42s):
There were protests across the country all 50 states and a week after that they'd been protests in other countries to last weekend. I watch protesters in the west of England top all the statue of Edward Colston a Bristol man who made his fortune by trading in thousands of enslaved Africans after kneeling on the supine statues neck protesters rolled it down the street before tipping it into the Bristol Harbor. Valentin friend sent me videos and photos of protest they had attended while doing their best to maintain social distancing as someone on Twitter put it I can't believe coronavirus or 28:3 leads to racism.

2 (6m 25s):
The day after George Floyd was killed. I quit Twitter because of my propensity for Doom scrolling. I knew my right thumb would be in constant endless motion eating up breaking news that would later crystallized into insomnia and migraines. But even on Instagram it was a wall of George Floyd content. Suddenly, I was overwhelmed with graphics and photos and links to bail funds and that uniquely American habit crowdfunding and pastel color digital easels people wrote anti-racist quotes from Angela Davis and iijima or luo artist created tributes to people like 26 year-old, Brianna Taylor who was killed in her own home in Louisville, Kentucky back in March Antonia McDade a trans man killed in, Tallahassee.

2 (7m 11s):
There were guides on everything from how to dress and prepare for a protest in the age of coronavirus to the specifics of raising. Truly anti-racist children. My favorite or least favorite genre of these is the one that teaches non-black people how to be people in this moment. Posts with headings like here's what to say to your black friends or check in on your black friends or seemingly everywhere. After that, first weekend of protests. I got a text in one of my group chats from a black friend. Have you ever have you gotten texts from white people this weekend? She wrote. Yes, we both replied. We all shared a dark laugh.

2 (7m 54s):
Black people have been dying in America and Elsewhere for so long what so different about now. That first weekend. I kept asking myself this what's making white people care now. I keep looking to see what I've missed. What was the thing that's making Brands draw these lines. Now what makes baby names.com dedicate its landing page to listing black victims of police violence along with the note each. One of these names was somebody's baby baby names up cam stands in solidarity with the black community. What is compelling people a lot of them white the stand up for the first time and Proclaim that it's time to do something.

2 (8m 36s):
How is it that I have read more proposals for defunding and abolishing the police in the last two weeks and over the course of the last two years. What's making people in small towns Across America, Lewistown Montana to bad acts, Michigan get up and protest now? If Sandra Bland's didn't do it if Eric Garner didn't do it if I Tatiana Jefferson didn't do it if I understand Lee Jones didn't do it. How was the death of George Floyd the thing that moves the needle I can't think of an easy answer. It's not because he was 7 years old if I understand Lee Jones was it's not because he was a 12 year old boy like Tamir rice was it's not because he was an award-winning EMT who tweeted that 2020 would be her year like Brianna Taylor was so the next likely answer is that it's as simple as the effect of accumulation finally there are enough dirty clothes in the hamper to justify putting on a load of laundry.

2 (9m 37s):
Maybe the increase the visibility of the Stark differences between the Haves and Have Nots over the last few years has produced the populace ready to be pushed into the hitherto radical line of thought that suggests actually black lives do matter maybe the activists finally broke through who can say a part of me wants white people at large to feel deeply ashamed this is entry level. Stop killing us. This is basic if the killing of George Floyd could unleash This tidal wave of demonstration. What was stopping you before he says meeting full as any other victim of police violence named an unnamed here today. You could have harnessed all this energy fifteen twenty two hundred five hundred a thousand deaths ago, but that didn't happen.

2 (10m 27s):
And so when I ask the question why now, the truth is that I don't really care all these white people newly attuned to this frequency the rest of us knows so well, I told a friend that I wanted everyone to do their belated learning far away from me. I don't want to see how anyone is carrying the one I don't want to teach anyone. I have no office hours. I don't want to know what triggered your come to Jesus moment. I have no interest in seeing how the sausage gets made. I just want to rock up to the table and enjoy my breakfast. I know what's different for me. I'm angrier now. I think of what parents say, but how their hearts grow bigger after a second child instead of having to share the love the already feel that's me, but instead of love it's rage.

2 (11m 20s):
I find that this time I am furious. That's what's

1 (11m 25s):
different.

2 (11m 34s):
The amout of one me is one of the reduces our show

1 (11m 60s):
at to for Sunrise. So when I've recently one of our

2 (12m 4s):
This is Diane will stop by. Mr. Mango, which is Corner Grocery in New York City. It's two or three blocks from the Barclays Center where lots of the big New York City protests have happened and it's just down the street from Brooklyn Hospital which has been hard hit treating coronavirus patients these last few months network. Of course, the epicenter of coronavirus cases in this country based mango is a 24-hour grocery store that is stayed open through the city shut down through the curfew. It is an intersection that all kinds of people pass through And that particular night that Diane was there protesters were singing happy birthday to Brianna Taylor at a little pause across the street woman in scrubs at the store was FaceTiming. Somebody about onions cop cars pulled up and standing there watching all of this during this intense moment.

2 (12m 49s):
We're living through where race and Justice and survival at the Forefront of everything Diane. Wondered what were all these different people thinking in this quiet little grocery store. So she went back the next night. It was this past Saturday night June 6 with a microphone and we are co-worker lean in the cities. They stayed all night until 5:00 in the morning talked to dozens of people and and they put this next story together. Usually, I just want to say we do not point out the race of the people that we talk to on the radio unless there's some particular reason but race is the context for so many interactions including the ones at the store that in the story. We're going to identify the race or nationality of everybody.

2 (13m 30s):
You're going to hear. Okay,

1 (13m 32s):
here's the yeah.

2 (13m 35s):
We got to mr. Mango just before the city's 8 p.m. Curfew inside. It was crowded and serious. People were shopping silently trying to keep it distance trying to move fast and get out of the store and get home by 8:00

1 (13m 48s):
a police helicopter buzzes overhead. Mr. Mango is a small

2 (13m 54s):
grocery store with inexpensive produce out front and a mix of regular and bougie groceries inside. They have 35 kinds of honey, but also dollar pineapples. The cashiers were hurriedly checking everyone out from an island in the middle of the store.

1 (14m 10s):
Next is worth once curfew kicked in things relaxed. Like all the anxious rule followers had cleared out the regular

2 (14m 18s):
started filtering in neighborhood people essential workers a white guy in pajama pants came in to buy a corkscrew Chan who's Ty and manages the restaurant Three Doors Down. He came in after his shift ended at 10:00 to pick up some pita chips for his husband. The curfew had actually been good for business

1 (14m 37s):
like when is next to it? Eight people were so afraid that they will I have to start at home or something. So a lot of delivery is going to happen around that time. Yeah, how many tonight tonight? We hit by three thousand two thousand dollars, which

2 (14m 55s):
was 50% more than usual. He told me. Divine a black man who lives around the corner stop by in a camo face mask to pick up some ices and cups. He was hanging out with her friend from Jersey that

1 (15m 7s):
night. Yeah, what all is going on need something too. Unwind a little bit but this has been rough this world right now. Everything's going on. No basketball season. No Sports. My daughter can graduate high school couldn't have a graduation only great thing about this game. My grandson is born now. Congratulations my know so I'm sorry for people who was deaf, but my daughters Happy my grandson is home a safe

2 (15m 38s):
the ice. He was carrying to the register. Actually was for a toast for baby, Thurmond. One group of regulars was hard to get to talk because they were either rushing to work or exhausted the hospital workers. Everyone else had moved on to the new crisis, but they were still very much inside the previous

1 (15m 57s):
one. Do you have a minute to talk a black woman on the

2 (16m 2s):
hospital cleaning crew for a nice talk to me for one minute and 24 seconds while she shopped

1 (16m 8s):
and wasted none of it. I'm tired because it's coronavirus have been Again, the last 96 days and then you got these people out here protesting which I'm all for that but they're going about the wrong way with this Burning buildings and stores and people got to survive. You know, this is your neighborhood. You should be doing stuff like that, you know, you gotta do it the right way, but that's just my opinion and I'm delirious and I'm tired right now. So I'm about to go I feel tired for you 96 days. I'm actually walking Slowly by slowly picking step by step. I am like burnt out. Outdrink

2 (16m 46s):
you don't know what to say anymore. Just go to work and just play the same way you leave there. You come back home that way.

1 (16m 52s):
That's all I can say. Be careful. Have a good night.

2 (16m 57s):
At the cashiers Island, there's Ronnie who's new at mr. Benko. You just started working here this week. He's Latino from Guatemala and dorjee the longtime overnight cashier gracious and calm Georgie's from Bhutan. He's the quiet center of gravity of the whole store and does not want to be on the radio. Every time I swing the microphone in his Direction, he leans back and puts his hands up to protect himself from it. Once the mic is safely out of sight. So he's happy to talk after I interview any of his regulars Georgie helpfully fills in the details. That guy is a really hard worker. They come almost every day after a long day.

2 (17m 41s):
They used to by Corona, but after coronavirus they started getting a different beer. One of the regulars ejector who's Asian tells me that mr. Mango is his favorite store in his whole life. And the reason is Georgie and the other night cashier Karma whose off tonight

1 (17m 58s):
last year. I had a bad year everything started to fall apart in my worst moments. I would come here at midnight or 1:00 in the morning and just be with them and I found out that I wasn't the only one.

2 (18m 11s):
Ever since the pandemic Georgie's been working more 72 hours a week. He's tired tomorrow is his day off. As it gets later around midnight the mood atmosphere mango

1 (18m 26s):
shift some of the energy outside filters in

2 (18m 30s):
Lena tells what happens next? Protesters keep turning up a sunburn couple white holding hands on their way home from a rally if I scream beer and lemon Patrick an older black man with long hair and a beard to match. He'd been out protesting to wanted to grab a snack before turning in he bought one pineapple and then these protesters I'll call them Josh and Katie they seemed about 30 most of them white. She had long red hair and he had knuckle tattoos. But he refused to show them to us for his own protection. He said and because he didn't want to put himself as an individual ahead of the

1 (19m 10s):
movement. I just don't like anything. Josh and

2 (19m 23s):
Katie told Diane they'd spent the day marching all over

1 (19m 26s):
Brooklyn's went through Flatbush Crown Heights Bed-Stuy and then back up here to Barclays. I'm a little tired. I was locked up for a long time after one of the recent violent assaults on a protest and one of the outer boroughs he got arrested this week. Yeah,

2 (19m 45s):
Josh kept talking about what he called movement moments Katie focused on shopping for fruit. That's fruit. They've planten's they

1 (19m 53s):
She is a soursop. They have star

2 (19m 56s):
fruit and mom made and things you don't see in America. I mean, you know,

1 (19m 59s):
these guys are the real deal what's going on?

2 (20m 13s):
Just happened. What happened was a couple NYPD walked into mr. Mango Josh and Katie immediately reacted Josh very dramatically. Stop talking wrap the scarf around his face so that all that were showing where his eyes he looked like a mummy who's also an anarchist. He crept away picked up some tofu and held it like a prop then glanced back at the police. Meanwhile, I went and talked to the officers one way the other Dominican.

1 (20m 42s):
What are you guys here for buying snacks and water? I got water and pretzels got some

2 (20m 48s):
water. Well, I was talking to the police Josh and Katie moved to the back of the store where they accidentally knocked over some toilet paper. The whole thing is pretty conspicuous, but they didn't want to be near the NYPD which the cops definitely noticed, but they didn't care

1 (21m 5s):
doesn't bother me at all. It's sweet because you're used to it. Yeah. Oh, yeah. But sometimes we get appreciation to because both we get bored. Yeah appreciation today. Oh that no was coming from Josh. He's listening to our

2 (21m 23s):
conversation officer Rodriguez heard him rolled his eyes.

1 (21m 28s):
Yeah, but that's the same guy that when he's getting robbed or something. What kind of call 9-1-1 and it's gonna expect us to show up. Give us a so.

2 (21m 38s):
The officers pay for their water and pretzels tell me they have to get back to work. They're on patrol Duty. I walk out with them and when I get back Josh has uncovered

1 (21m 47s):
his face.

2 (21m 48s):
He's talking about Standing

1 (21m 49s):
Rock shoot down Americans and Native it standing rocks with four different jurisdictions at once in every brutal way. They can wait. Can I tell you what he said about you? What is that? I asked if it upset him that you wouldn't step up to pay until he was gone and he said no, but when he gets robbed, he's gonna call my mom. Expect us to help him. I don't call the cops. Haven't you don't cause I don't know. It's never call it for any reason whatsoever. Everything can be handled within a community every possible situation. You could come up with does it make sense to why he would have thought that though. Yeah, because he's been acculturated to a system which believes that we will always need policing no matter what even though. It's an advent of the 18th century.

1 (22m 31s):
There you are you saying a rehearse speech my entire life is dedicated to the destruction of the police in the American Empire. Why I'm speaking off-the-cuff. This is what I think about all day long.

2 (22m 43s):
Another protester came in soon after Josh and Katie. She was also skeptical of the police her tactic though. It's pretty different. This was a white protester. I noticed in front of the sliced cheese has animatedly chatting up a black police officer. She was asking him questions, which you seem to be answering. This was a kind of conversation. I hadn't heard yet. So I walked over Lieutenant Murray's Ballston was wearing an upper rank officers white shirt. Brianna was holding a green juice. She was on her way home from drinks with a friend after protesting all day.

1 (23m 20s):
Have you ever watched it happen? So long, I really appreciate this conversation just in general and and I appreciate it as well. And again, it should be everyone's right that you know, no one should be able to no one should fit police interactions like this it we should we should all know. I know that but I'm sure but that's my privilege right? I don't have to

2 (23m 46s):
Lieutenant Walston doesn't want to talk about her

1 (23m 48s):
privilege. Well, I can tell you this when I deal with even Of my worries. I give him the same respect that I give to you and that's just across the board. I'm sure you do. That's not the question, right you're not but but I've been this is not my first conversation honest and communicate and understand. I know it's

2 (24m 15s):
a really awkward conversation to watch to keep making big statements about policing ending with

1 (24m 21s):
right fine. It's not an isolated event here or there right? It's a systemic problem. I have this General sense that people who try to go to be police officers generally have like a power issue. Right? And there is a power issue or they want to help people and like in my mind it's you know one or the other. I think generally most people become police officers to help.

2 (24m 55s):
Of course, it's hard to get Lieutenant Walston to agree with what seems to be her Central premise that there's something fundamentally wrong with his job. But ultimately when

1 (25m 5s):
police are called in on peacekeeping missions. Violence ensues right? See there are times there are times when when we when we get full and violence has already occurred or violence is did and that's the majority of the songs while we're getting pulled to these emergency situations

2 (25m 27s):
Lieutenant Walston told me later that people who don't have as many interactions with the police often fill the vacuum with a worst images. They see in the news not anything based on their own experiences. His strategy during this conversation. He told me was first to mostly just listen, but when she told him she knew what it was like to be in the minority because she'd lived as a white person in Oakland. He realized the death of her misconceptions, but since she seems so adamant, he wasn't up to change them and we talked to Brianna later. She said she wasn't expecting to change anything about his beliefs. It just felt important to say what she thought for the end of their 20.

2 (26m 9s):
Conversation there's a moment where she asks for his advice. Yes, you have kids.

1 (26m 16s):
Yeah. I have I have have twins have a four-year-old son is biracial. I'm trying to figure out how to tell him. He presents his wife. He looks like but he's not quite right. So how do you talk to a bi-racial kid about racism right? Right. Nice about police brutality still so far ratio, so I'm honestly, that's the You can be honest, you know, and what is that?

1 (27m 4s):
But honestly looks like me and part tell them that they are offices like me out there. No such as Hollins. There's officers not like you. Yes, I would be truthful. Yeah any accusation because

2 (27m 19s):
you have to have that conversation with your kids. She tells him it's funny to imagine how different those two conversations would be After she left I asked Lieutenant Walston, but he made of all of

1 (27m 31s):
that. Have you been having more conversations? Like the one you just had sorry to be more specific have more white people. Wanted to talk to you about that kind of thing than usual. Yeah. Yeah, and you know and I get that me just say this. I'm actually I'm happy that you know, you have all nationalities that are coming together to you note will come and go and I'm happy about that the only thing is that when you do get a white person, which is fine, but don't the one thing I just don't allow is for you to claim that you know my plight more than I do.

1 (28m 16s):
Is it

2 (28m 16s):
accurate to say that that was like a white

1 (28m 18s):
lady explaining to you? Why plastic lives matter? Yeah, yeah, basically and a sense. Yeah, it's someone not of my, you know race telling me why my life matters and I know why my life matters. I know what I want

2 (28m 41s):
he gets in an unmarked police car with his Patrol partner and drives down Lafayette Avenue. By 1:00 or 2:00 in the morning, the protesters recede off the stage and the night shift workers make their entrance the mood changes again. It becomes quiet contemplative the night shift workers. They are now on their way home from protesting racism, but many of them know a lot about it like Alexander

1 (29m 15s):
either security for 300 Ashland Okay, it was that that big fancy building on the corner. Yeah, exactly. That's that job like right now

2 (29m 25s):
been hectic at all because of the protests

1 (29m 27s):
not really but people is that you get surprised to see who's who has the position politically on the protests from working in residential building the people come out to jump with the processes of people come out and you know, go get the protesters. So you get to see, you know, do people kind of match up with what you would guess. Yeah, this is surprising how being cynical is be used. Being right

2 (29m 52s):
so there is one Wild Card category

1 (29m 55s):
the old the old the older residents always surprising on their views because at a certain age you start to be like, okay, you know, I don't expect much from you who like older woke people in your building. Yeah, but when they're awake and they know what's going on, it's surprising, you know, it feels nice. We what kinds of things are people

2 (30m 15s):
saying who are against the protest

1 (30m 17s):
is more of like this the subtle hints Will Be oh when it's going to be enough of these people protesting that or it's too late for that or now. Is this Tuesday the time or by the you do that last time, you know, it's sudden when people try to diminish or water down the situation, but you know, it is what it is and at the as a people aren't used to So you mean like, you know being a black individual used to people always dismissing your cause I give you talk about slavery to bring up the Holocaust and we talk about anything that's going to be in Black other people bringing their struggles to so it is what it is.

1 (30m 60s):
So even with the protest now not wrong with you know, I see Caucasian friends helping us out and being a part of the situation but you know, it's getting watered down because everybody sees the white faces and not seen any black. Like faces a part of it. So who Am I who lives matter? Hmm. I don't know

2 (31m 20s):
the vast majority of the protesters we talked to at mr. Mango that night were in fact white almost has it been working after curfew. Does it feel like I've been nervous about

1 (31m 30s):
moment nervous around there was individual like yeah because this is all like this all riots and no never know who you're going to be attacked or not or feeling unsafe. It's part of being a black male period so you know it A little bit of insight for everybody else to feel like how we feel. You know,

2 (31m 48s):
Alexander works the night shift from 6 p.m. To 2 a.m. Which is made getting home hard during this week of curfew. The Subway is closed cabs aren't an option Alexander is 26 and has lived in New York City his whole life. He told me that the first time a Yellow Cab stopped for him as a black man. Was this last year tonight? You heard Uber is running and that's how you'll get home. How did you get home the other night?

1 (32m 16s):
Through the grace of God through the absolutely possible to describe me

2 (32m 21s):
right now though. He has to get back to work. He walks over to the cash register

1 (32m 28s):
also personal not buy stuff. I sometimes I get all things are the same color. I don't know why he would do it too, but somehow I got ramen and look like blueberries and we ain't got all purple

2 (32m 39s):
today. You got purple Ramen and I say drink

1 (32m 42s):
Ramona got some this great just so I don't know why. Where is huh? And again

2 (32m 47s):
night?

1 (32m 56s):
Around 1:30

2 (32m 57s):
a.m. A guy in an MTA uniform walked in he was holding a big leather binder he had straight for the cash register eager to show Georgie. Whatever's inside of it. It's a trading card album full of old basketball cards the kind of

1 (33m 11s):
holograms. Yeah, this is from the 1990s when I Michael Jordan dominated there's Michael Jordan. This is the famous nuts and bolts collection. I'm gonna get 500 for that. It's 10 carts. Everybody's in a Hall of Fame. See look at that.

2 (33m 34s):
His name is Fred Nixon. This is he works for the City subway system specifically the G Spot beneath the

1 (33m 40s):
store. I work right downstairs and the booth. Yeah, I gotta I gotta I gotta go see I need a napkin since I'm on TV now

2 (33m 49s):
Fred comes into mr. Mango a lot. Like when it gets hot downstairs the napkin he asked for was to wipe the sweat from his forehead. Had he endured you talk all the time, you know each other. Well

1 (34m 2s):
crazy people outside. No. No, this guy down now

2 (34m 6s):
Fred starts talking about the Looting,

1 (34m 8s):
you know, the reason why people did that because Donald Trump is an idiot and he said when the Looting starts the shooting starts people in America, they take that to heart and he said, oh, yeah, shoot me and that's what that was all about. But I'm glad they stopped. I really believe that's why the people looted because and they wanted to challenge him, you know, like they felt dare to

2 (34m 29s):
yeah Fred Dixon is 61 years old. He's black grew up here and the same neighborhood and he's proud of these past couple weeks. He feels the protests are a continuation of work. He had a hand in starting

1 (34m 41s):
now started this movement 40 years ago across the street at BAM with Sonny Carston Waite Sunny Carson actually was trying to do something like this 40 years ago, but look that up.

2 (34m 55s):
I Sonny Carson was a civil rights activist and a political organizer from Brooklyn in the 1970s. He led demonstrations for racial Justice Just a block away from mr. Mango

1 (35m 7s):
make you feel saying it happened, you know again now in 2020 I wanted to see it before I'm dead. So I'm glad about it because black people can't do it by themselves. And if until everybody jumped in the course, that's why nobody was listening. What do you think is different now though that any Basically, like more white people than ever are paying attention. What do you think is different? I think that you ever heard the saying the straw that broke the camel's back George Floyd was the straw that broke the camel's back

2 (35m 40s):
part of his job is interfacing with cops patrolling the subway station

1 (35m 44s):
often. It's all domestic cups. I get a really upset about it when I was 15 years old. I got beat up by the cops right in front of the 88th Precinct. Where is it? He's priest. Where is it Clawson and the cow and recently they tried to Turn it up last week. I didn't even feel bad for them because of that experience. I had when I was 15 years old I've been

2 (36m 7s):
asked is the early 70s when it happened Fred said it was a misunderstanding about unpaid bus fare, which at the time was 35 cents. He says not a lots changed since then I've

1 (36m 19s):
been stopped by the cops with my uniform on the cross going to my job. And I told me I stole a red ball out the store with my uniform and I was going crazy. I was like, I told him that Didn't get out of my booth. I was going to press the emergency button. They all left because they know they have to fill out paperwork for their

2 (36m 37s):
friend didn't buy anything at mr. Mango not during that break. Anyway, he just came in to say hi to Georgie. I'm

1 (36m 43s):
glad this is the placement of some angle the bus especially mr. Dosha here on his way out Fred

2 (36m 51s):
promised orgy that he'd bring back the basketball cards soon. So he could get a proper. Look Georgie said he'd want a full hour to do it so that he can see everything.

1 (37m 8s):
After 3 a.m.

2 (37m 9s):
Even the night shift workers weren't coming in anymore. It was just Georgie and Ronnie in there. They were in constant motion Ronnie restocking the eggs and coconut water Georgie cleaning the coffee machine and rearranging the pastries around 3:30. I really out of it man walked in he was black. It seemed like he might have been homeless. He got a muffin. After that, no one came in and the story felt like a safe clean cocoon full of soap and honey and different kinds of sprinkles. It felt like a store from six months ago or a hundred months ago where nothing was out of place except maybe the case of hand sanitizer above the cheesecake fridge last person.

2 (37m 52s):
We talked to as we left at 5:00 a.m. Was a Latino guy picking over the oranges and a crisp Hawaiian shirt. He was complaining about a notice from the government. Student loans from the 80s or overdo. It was so annoyed. No pandemic or protest on his mind at all in that

1 (38m 9s):
moment. Diane will with Lena beseech.

2 (38m 21s):
He's coming up a neighborhood protest that wasn't supposed to happen. That's in a minute Chicago public radio when our program continues. Support for This American Life comes from Squarespace create a website to Showcase your work publish new content or announce your upcoming events or performances and make it stand out with designer crafted templates that are e-commerce ready and all mobile-friendly right out of the box start your free trial and receive a special offer on your first purchase at squarespace.com / American and use promo code American a dream is just a great idea. That doesn't have a website yet.

2 (39m 1s):
Make it a reality with Squarespace. Support for This American Life comes from Progressive saving money on your car insurance is easy with Progressive. It's an average savings of over 750 dollars for customers who switch and Save in fact customers can qualify for an average of six discounts on their auto policy with Progressive discounts just for starting a quote online or having multiple vehicles on their policy get your quote online at progressive.com and see how much you could be saving National annual average auto insurance savings by new customers. Surveyed in 2019 potential savings will vary discounts vary and are not available in all states and situations.

2 (39m 42s):
This American Life and Ira Glass Today Show here again stories in the aftermath of the killing of George Floyd that we recorded this past week. So they're these Twitter threads that have sprung up these last couple weeks where people are collecting as many videos of police violence against protesters as they can find a spend a lot of times going through the ones assembled by a North Carolina Warrior named T. Greg to said he's also got them in handy Google doc form online. He has over 600 videos so far and he says people have sent him 1600 direct messages with She hasn't even gotten to yet the stuff that police are doing in these videos. I mean the tactics of the using against peaceful protest. It is not news. There's nothing new about it at this point.

2 (40m 23s):
I think everybody knows or should know that this stuff is happening, but watching them back-to-back all collected in one place like the sheer concentrated volume of it is unnerving. The simplest ones start with utterly peaceful

1 (40m 38s):
demonstrators in San Luis Obispo. Bo Bentonville, Arkansas, Columbus, Ohio, Huntsville, Georgia, Walnut Creek,

2 (40m 45s):
California too many places to name and then police fired tear gas and sometimes flashbangs or rubber bullets with no apparent

1 (40m 52s):
provocation. Oh lots of videos, of course get way more

2 (40m 60s):
violent and Austin police shot a beanbag round at a 16 year old boy Brad Levi a yahwah. It seems like he's just a bystander watching the protests from an embankment near the

1 (41m 10s):
street. Medic Minneapolis on a super peaceful Suburban looking tree-lined street

2 (41m 20s):
with pretty homes police and National Guard March down the street

1 (41m 26s):
and fire some kind of rounded woman for the offense of videoing them from her own porch. Los Angeles a black family tries to protect the store from looters, they flagged down police to help and then

2 (41m 42s):
the police start to handcuffed and detained them a reporter is there on live TV cuz you said the police

1 (41m 47s):
straight? Okay, sir, whoa in Indianapolis and officer. Looks like he grabs a young woman's breasts while trying to detain her. She's grams free and two officers beat her to the ground with night sticks.

2 (42m 7s):
Is going to be the reason I'm going to play you it sums up. I think all of these as well as anyone video could some Charleston South Carolina again a perfectly peaceful group of protesters all of them kneeling. I don't know maybe 20 feet from a line of police as one guy addresses

1 (42m 21s):
officers. I am not your enemy. You are not mad. ineffective you and I want to understand y'all. I want to understand all of you your pieces over and over. I want to understand

2 (42m 38s):
you. Please respond by marching over to the guy they dragged him to his feet and arrest him which means the stack three Grand Army so given the way protests have been going. Some people do not want them in their own neighborhoods. There's neighborhood in Brooklyn Red Hook where there was a debate about this couple weeks ago one woman who is white woke up read the news of the day and then post it online that you wanted to have a protest. She got several responses from local community leaders asking her not to do it the wife of a local Pastor wrote.

2 (43m 21s):
Please reconsider this there's more damage than good that will come from this the hurt and anger at the black community has right now will not allow for this to end up peacefully. In the end you will be able to go back home to a quiet peaceful block, but the residents of Niger that's the public housing won't they will end up with more police presence possible curfew some may get hurt and so much more. The one who wrote the initial post back down but last weekend there was a protest in Red Hook one of our producers David Chavez who lives there explains how that happened and how it went the protests that did happen was organized by a 22 year old named nod Dortch who'd never done anything like this before.

2 (44m 4s):
I met up with him just before the protests started. Have you been in touch with the police? Like have they contacted you as the organizer at all? Oh, yeah, they have what are those conversations would like? Um

1 (44m 16s):
This is mainly interested in the route and what's going to happen and and thing and things like that

2 (44m 24s):
the been cordial like your conversations with them.

1 (44m 27s):
Oh, no, no. No, it's been it has been cordial. It has been called you but they say things like so we need to route and I say I don't think you need the route and they say well you don't have a permit. You know what I mean? Like hey, if you don't give me the route, we're gonna shut it down because you don't have a permit things. That so you didn't give him the route. I didn't give them the route. I know I didn't give anyone around I gave people a general route.

2 (44m 53s):
The police told me they didn't try to shut down. The event three weeks ago now was doing what a lot of us were literally I was doing nothing

1 (45m 1s):
literally nothing. I was just home in my house doing nothing. Just going outside sometimes getting some air but I was like doing nothing

2 (45m 10s):
and then George Floyd was killed the country erupted in protest now looked out at his neighborhood and saw nobody's coming to fucking

1 (45m 19s):
rug and nobody's like out here protesting. I was just like fuck it. I'm gonna do a protest

2 (45m 24s):
he been to a few protests over the years when he was 17. He joined a black lives matter group for a few days, but he felt like he was too young to make a difference to be heard. Everyone else in the group is ancient their 30s. He texted his friend Crystal. She agreed to be his secretary made a flyer with the date and time for the protest not pulled in his friends Mo Pringle like the chip. She told me Nasim Stevenson who plans to go to law school and a few others. They came up with a name the New Black leaders black spelled BL Q CK because the other version was taken.

2 (46m 8s):
Subjectively 2020 has been an unremitting shitstorm of a year things have actually been going okay for nah. He recently came out to his friends and family. Most of them were supportive his grandmother asked a few awkward questions and then tried to get some hot gossip about who else was gay. He's been feeling more empowered lately more like himself. But when he and some friends decided to have a protest they got the same response from some Community leaders as the other woman the one who proposed a protest on Facebook they worried it could be dangerous people from outside. The neighborhood could come in and start trouble. It could give the cops a reason to harass them her to get violent.

2 (46m 48s):
One of them felt like people have been protesting for years and nothing had changed the New Black leaders had Zoom call where they tried to convince them. Everything would be fine.

1 (46m 59s):
I'm going to express old. About the protest we do not want agitators here. If you see anyone who look who who's trying to agitate stop them if you feel like you are gonna get agitated or if you are here to be violent leave. We're gonna call I'm gonna constantly Express

2 (47m 16s):
that after this call with the community leaders though, one of them a guy who serves as a community liaison to the 76th Precinct sent an email to the police telling them. What route he thought the March would take and giving them the names and Photos of the organizers it may not feel even more targeted than he already. Did it hurt me it

1 (47m 37s):
almost discourage me because it made me feel like damn like nobody believes in us, you know what I mean? Even though we constantly expressed how I was going to go and we express that like you can help us, you know, make sure that these things remain like the protest is safe, but they almost discourage me and kind of made me feel like I didn't know what I was

2 (47m 59s):
doing not as friends the other organizers convince him to keep going and that email it was actually the reason one of the reticent Community leaders Tiffany Davis decided to go to the protest. It's crazy de is an empowering but scary day Tiffany runs an organization called Red Hook art project on Sunday the day of the protest. She showed up early a handful of people were hanging around outside the community center, okay. Ready making signs and t-shirts. Are you scared of it? You know I jumped by just seeing a lot of the

1 (48m 33s):
police ride around in ways that they I mean they always

2 (48m 36s):
Patrol the neighborhood but they are patrolling it way too much now because they know that there's black leaders behind this protest and they looking for them to do something that they not that's not what their intentions. Are. You seeing them drive around more today. I did see them drive around today and I'm a little frustrated by what I'm seeing after the polio. I'm frustrated because he's a young children the old my son and my Her age, so I'm very I'm disappointed at the community police. I'm very disappointed. What are you worried? But might happen. I don't know just that any cake and make a wrong move like that gentleman right now is bouncing a basketball. What did the basketball roll over and hit a police officer? And then they try to blame that on something negative and a reason to start shooting look at them.

2 (49m 19s):
Do they look like they want to start trouble? Now they look like they want to make t-shirts and signs. They just want opportunities to be seen and heard and respected signs and t-shirts had George Floyd's face on them and black lives matter and also forever Dion. Deon flood was a kid from Red Hook who died in 2013. He went through a Subway turnstile without paying some cops tried to arrest him and he jumped into the subway tracks to get away. He ended up in the hospital paralyzed from the neck down in a coma and Shackled to the bed the police say he was hit by a train but his family says he woke up from the coma and told them the police had beaten him and left him on the subway tracks.

2 (50m 4s):
He died from the injuries. Not long after. When for p.m. Comes there are probably a hundred to two hundred people waiting for the protest to begin now is walking around with bullhorn in hand. He's tall wearing a white black lives matter t-shirt.

1 (50m 27s):
His mask is around his chin na a nervous. I'm a little nervous talking to this many people. Um, I've been in front of this many people doing other things just not talking but I'm not worried about the token. I'm my eyes my eyes on a mission on the I don't really I'm not thinking too much about my speech everything you stand up. Yeah, I'm not that nervous. I'm just a little I'm shocked really more people than you thought there'd be here or not more people than I thought. Yeah. One mic one Mike, all right at 4:15, we will start moving right now.

1 (51m 9s):
We are just waiting for other people to come. I'm so glad to see so many people out here. Let's give a round of applause for guys is invalid a protest before you seems totally at ease.

2 (51m 23s):
They're also police there about 10 of them by my account including the commanding officer of the 76th precinct. Which covers Red Hook Deputy inspector Meagan O'Malley. She's talking to Nassim Nas Advance man. Telling him certain streets are closed including the block. The 76th Precinct is on

1 (51m 42s):
she say that was because of construction or did she say she said it was because of construction fraction and they've been making mock Tomatoes like Molotov cocktails. Like a fire mom's

2 (51m 55s):
not as planned the whole thing out. He has the bikers in the crowd to move to the front of the

1 (51m 60s):
March

2 (52m 2s):
next come six people carrying a

1 (52m 4s):
banner that reads defund the police and a more and more common

2 (52m 8s):
tactic. The white Marchers are put at the front of the protests and on the sides

1 (52m 13s):
the thought being that police will be less likely to harm them. Now stands in front of the group of his

2 (52m 19s):
fists in the air crowd gets silent puts their fists in year 2

1 (52m 24s):
and then Lisa protester Red Hook. The crowd is amped.

2 (52m 39s):
There are a bunch of young people.

1 (52m 41s):
There's a first time I see you.

2 (52m 47s):
The Marchers are eight or nine cops and more cops linking the crowd

1 (52m 51s):
the protesters do the

2 (52m 52s):
usual tears. No. Justice. No. Peace. As well as a few hyperlocal

1 (53m 1s):
chance say 76. Yeah. Say suck my dick 76 The cops are like leading that leading the way yes, very wet. Very very this is a guy named Rocky Harris has they actually leading the way so I don't know the cops are there to keep the community in the

2 (53m 27s):
Marchers safe Deputy inspector O'Malley told me but the Marchers were there to protest the cops for making them feel unsafe. Now runs through the crowd front to back leading the chance with his bullhorn the March winds through the public housing high-rises picking up people as it goes what started as a couple hundred people just keeps growing

1 (53m 48s):
I did not think there would be this many people at all at all. This is crazy as I expected like 200. This is like 500 a like commanding this crowd. Yeah. I got to make sure it stays in shape. So far so good. Yeah,

2 (54m 4s):
the planned route I find out is to March over a little Bridge a highway overpass

1 (54m 9s):
and get as close as they can to the 76th Precinct

2 (54m 12s):
station, then turn and head back into Red Hook.

1 (54m 15s):
It is a purchase gets near not changes the

2 (54m 18s):
plan. He tells not seeing who's been walking out in front of the Marchers communicating with the police that he doesn't want to turn around and on the March

1 (54m 26s):
was going to well we have too many people to stop. We could go to the bridge that we can walk down time. Okay, downtown downtown Brooklyn near the

2 (54m 37s):
Barclays Center, which has been the location for a lot of protests these last few

1 (54m 40s):
weeks. They get onto the

2 (54m 42s):
overpass and cross it and find a police barricade at the end a line of those metal fences blocking off the intersection. They have to stop hundreds of people pile onto this bridge above the expressway and this is where Naseem tell Deputy

1 (54m 56s):
inspector O'Malley did not want to change the plan. that I didn't ask to be more cops I'm just relaying information that I received you gave me around you wouldn't give you around you never give it the end of the round we agreed upon the Footbridge all facilitated but okay someone needs to tell him Ali where they want to go nothing turns and looks for nah he's walked back into the crowd I'm So speaking on his behalf I can't speak to the organizer and whatever we can do to my ground I'm dropping three this isn't a standoff don't try to trap anybody no one's going to go in here not shit machine is not as

2 (55m 38s):
full name full of confusing

1 (55m 40s):
it's very close to not

2 (55m 41s):
seen his right-hand man this guy

1 (55m 44s):
noshing I need I need you You need to articulate. All right, what you liked and back and back and back. We're okay. We're okay. We're gonna keep being. Okay. I know you're under a lot of stress. Where do you want to go? You want to go downtown to go downtown? No, I'm going by what you want. I'm here to facilitate for you. What do you want? No arrests. No in downtown is horrible. We can go down and I just want to say why we're here information that I got was from him and I deleted to you when I got it.

1 (56m 24s):
I've been I just want you to know walking on us.

2 (56m 29s):
There have been plenty of protests in recent weeks for things did not go. Well right here in Brooklyn

1 (56m 34s):
cops beating protesters driving cars into them people throwing firebombs at police. This stuff's on everyone's mind. So there was no my baby. All right, they have momentum but take it in a positive direction gonna go downtown right? We're gonna stop traffic him. All right, we're going to open this up. We're going to go. All right, we're good. We're in agreement. Yeah. Yeah. So once we're out of here, hello Benny by the way, how are you?

1 (57m 18s):
Out of the seven six. It's out of your control. No, I don't know what we give our glaze or the brave you are ever you're going to start it back up. No justice something. No, just those slowly slowly. Please give an announcement slowing called slowly the officer swing one of the metal gates open.

2 (57m 42s):
So only three or four people can walk through at a time.

1 (57m 46s):
The seam and I walk through together the head of the crowd. He turns a bliss and kisses towards people on the precinct side of the barrier free blowing kisses to probably blowing kisses since the working are used to work here. So I'm saying how to one of my co-workers would you were co-workers in the 76? Yep, when asked about it. He doesn't have anything bad to say about the officers of the 76 and he tells me he's planning to have a career of some kind in law enforcement. It's a peaceful March to the Barclays Center about three miles. The way from where it all began the protest picks up more and more people along the way the police estimated 1,200 people at its peak

2 (58m 24s):
the young woman in the crowd walks up to not give them your number but he takes politely and they continued even deeper into Brooklyn at Grand Army Plaza na stands up on the wall of a fountain and looks back at the Sea of Faces waiting to hear him speak.

1 (58m 39s):
This is this is this is amazing. I don't even know what to say at the Orchid. This is so many people and to think it started all the little brown cuz I'm crazy. This big this gives me hope you know see you all these people here all these allies all these young black men all these young black woman. Let's just pick. Can we just put a fist up? Please?

1 (59m 19s):
Try not to cry. I'm laughing on bro.

2 (59m 36s):
I met up with a few days later in a park in Red Hook when you walked up to me. He was talking to his team saying maybe next he would run for some kind of elected

1 (59m 45s):
position. Nothing too big. Just something local yesterday. I was like in my house and I was just laying down on my bed, and I'm like, wow, like, you know, I really fucking did that like black queer man broken tooth? Look chubby like shit. I really did that. You know what I mean? Like, it's just feels like the odds were stacked are stacked. Density and like and I'm I like winning. I like winning. Can hit us is one of the producers of Russia. At four do not pass go do not collect $200.

2 (1h 0m 29s):
So this is video making the rounds at a bunch of Assad and we thought the writer who is in it. Kimberly Jones did such a good job giving context and laying out a history quickly in a way that anybody can understand that even though this video has gotten a lot of views online. And even after we going to John Oliver ended his HBO show last week with this video. We still wanted to play it here. Kimberly Jones start this video by talking about the looters in the recent protests and she says people say all these negative things about the looters, but don't ask why the routing and to explain a feeling that lots of people have two launches into an economic history of black people in America starting with slavery.

1 (1h 1m 7s):
We must never forget that economics. Was that black people were brought to this country? We do the agricultural work in the South and the textile work in the north. Do you understand that that's what we came to do. Now if I write now decided that I wanted to play Monopoly with you and for 400 rounds of playing Monopoly. I didn't allow you to have any money. I didn't allow you to have anything on the board. I didn't allow for you to have anything and then we played another 50 rounds of Monopoly and everything that you gained and you aren't while you were playing that Monopoly was taken from you. That was Tulsa that was grows would there are pipe those are places where we built black economic wealth what we were self-sufficient where we owned our stores where we owned our property

2 (1h 1m 56s):
and they burn them to the

1 (1h 1m 58s):
ground. So that's 450 years. So for 400 rounds of Monopoly, you don't get to play at all. Not only do you not get to play you have to play on the behalf of the person that you're playing against you have to play and make money and unwell for them and then you have to turn it over to them. So they for 50 years you finally get a little bit and you're allowed to play and every time that they don't like the way that your claim or that you're catching up or that you're doing something to be self-sufficient. They On your game, they burn your cards. They burn your Monopoly money. And then finally at the release and the onset of that they allow you to play and they say, okay now you catch up.

1 (1h 2m 42s):
How can you win? How can you win you can't win the game is fixed. So when they say, why do you burn down the community? Why do you burn down your own neighborhood? It's not ours. We don't own anything. we don't own anything there is Trevor Noah said it so beautifully last night there's a social contract that we all have that if you steal or if I steal then the person who is the authority comes in and they fix the situation but the person who fixes the situation is killing us so the social contract is broken and if the social contract is broken why the fuck do I give a shit about burning the fucking Football Hall of Fame about brother to fucking Target you broke the contract when you killed us in the streets and they give a fuck You broke the contract room for 400 years.

1 (1h 3m 38s):
We played your game and built your wealth. You broke the contract when we built our wealth again on our own by our bootstraps in Tulsa and you dropped bombs on us when we built it in Rosewood and you came in and you slaughtered us. You broke the contract. So fuck your target. Fuck your hall of fame. Far as I'm concerned it could burn this bitch to the ground. And it still wouldn't be enough and they are lucky that were black people are looking for as a quality and not Revenge. Can we Jones she's writer author of a young adult novel.

1 (1h 4m 20s):
The website is

2 (1h 4m 21s):
Kim Jones writes.com

1 (1h 4m 29s):
the fourth round the age of five and shift the weight your body to these stores. They promised education, but really they give your testing scores and they predict in prison population by musco in the lowest damage to this labor Nadia Raymond and him out of with me people made Today Show include a manual bear. His importance of a chaste in Chiba Sean covid evil to Kleinfeld nor Guild getting Gravely name is CC

2 (1h 4m 50s):
Stone Nelson cat. Oh, my Mondo been failing Robbins seminar was ship Louis

1 (1h 4m 54s):
Sullivan Christopher's for Tyler Matt. Tyranny, Nancy Updike and Jimmy Whitaker. I managing editors who died in will and Sarah abdulrahman executive editors David kestenbaum.

2 (1h 5m 1s):
Thanks day two Eric Stevens and staff of mr. Mango

1 (1h 5m 4s):
and doing seen Felix the art on our website for today's show is by Adrian Brandon our website This American Life gargoyles This American Life is of your public radio stations by pra. Rex the public radio

2 (1h 5m 17s):
exchange sport for This American Life comes from Progressive Insurance offering

1 (1h 5m 21s):
Snapchat a program that adjust insurance rates based on safe driving habits or in more at progressive.com or 1-800 Progressive. Now that's Progressive and from Sitka salmon shows

2 (1h 5m 34s):
community supported fishery home delivering traceable. Wild Alaskan Seafood since 2011 online

1 (1h 5m 41s):
ordering recipes and more about their

2 (1h 5m 43s):
small boat fleet extent.

1 (1h 5m 45s):
A salmon shares.com. Thanks as always to our programs co-founder mystery man with you, you know, you chose a funny way to announce to the staff some

2 (1h 5m 54s):
cutbacks in our equipment budget

1 (1h 6m 2s):
and our glass back next

2 (1h 6m 3s):
week with more stories to This American

1 (1h 6m 5s):
Life.