3 (1s):
support for This American Life comes from honey finding promo codes would actually work isn't easy unless you use honey, the free browser extension that scans the internet for the best promo code and automatically adds it to your cart get honey for free at join honey.com American that's join honey.com American support for This American Life comes from Progressive. One of the country's leading providers of auto insurance with progressives Name Your Price tool you say what kind of coverage you're looking for and how much you want to pay and Progressive will help you find options that fit within your budget use the Name Your Price tool and start an online quote at progressive.com pricing coverage match limited by state law.

3 (48s):
A quick warning. There are curse words that are unbeaten today's episode of the show. If you prefer a beeped version, you can find that at our website This American Life dot-org. An Oddish is a doctor in the Intensive Care Unit at a big hospital Henry Ford in Detroit and when chronic cases started arriving in March, she made up this job herself. She started spending hours of each day walking the fourth fifth and sixth floors that made up the ICU. Just checking in on her co-workers seeing other we're doing which means that maybe more than any single person in the hospital. She knows best what the staff has been going through at every stage of this pandemic which tries to help even for instance when a unicorn Zuri that she assured him bleach and wipes see if I can poke some people.

3 (1m 33s):
Okay. Thank you. I love you. I love you too, making me. All right staff is the person who first reached. Dr. Rena got to know her. Hey there Mickey. Hey Ira. So one of the things that's new about coronavirus is how much death the doctors and nurses see it's Relentless and rent a especially worries about the doctors who are still in training their residents and fellows. All right, Henry Ford is a big teaching Hospital. Yeah. So when I was a resident, she says the doctors in charge. I've never checked in with the trainees about their feelings after a patient died. She says it's traumatic. You can feel like you failed them and Brenda says that two of the residents she trained with actually died by Suicide. She sometimes still like wonders if someone checking in might have made a difference.

3 (2m 13s):
So, you know when she heard about a team of Henry Ford trainees who lost a patient. She made a point of stopping by to see them. They were all in this like cramped windowless work room on the fifth floor. How are you? I was trying to write an email to you. But I guess where we came down because I figured it was like a better talking thing. Then we heard there was a bad day. There was a young 22 year old woman who died and everyone take it bad. Yeah. Anyway, that's a resident named ream saying there wasn't a dry eye. I'm not sure I've ever heard doctors talk like this among themselves about what it's like when a patient dies.

3 (2m 54s):
Let's say it's interesting. You've played me this tape in before this conversation with the trainees even get started their leader. Jei Lakshmi comp heads for the door to leave and rennick on a box them. You guys just do this thing. Yeah, so she stands in front of the door and she opens up this Can't do need scrub caps that have sharks and dinosaurs on them. Did it make you too sad is that why you just took yourself out of the conversation? I feel like you need one of these though because I'm seeing your hair how many of those I have giving them to sort of a hint and then ran out.

3 (3m 35s):
She turns out that Resident ream to get her to say more about her feelings about this patient who died they'd taken care of her for a whole month. What were you staring at? About the pieces. It was just you know, like she's 22. She's just like one of us and I'm just staring at how beautiful she looked at her eyelashes her nails her toenails. She she worked and eyelash business. She was like we saw her pictures her mom shared her picture and she was she was she was the hardest case for us for me personally. I wanted to quit many times many days. I would imagine the conversation with dr. Very or just doing I can't do it.

3 (4m 19s):
We all have those days. We literally all have those days. It's crazy what we expect of ourselves. I've cried on rounds multiple times. I've had to leave take a break grinding really hard and I have such a jade tried to get rid of take a day off to get a break. The next day was her son 7th birthday, but really didn't want to leave the rest of her team hanging and you don't finish my work. He doesn't wake up to 11 and it's you know, what 7 is rolling. I got him many toys kids toys aren't going to replace you. Do you know what it's done is it's a lucky number - yes in my culture is very lucky.

3 (5m 2s):
I'm even here with white people. We chose Henry Ford Hospital because it's in Detroit. Saves 80% black black Americans been dying of covid-19 at higher rates than anybody else in Michigan. They are four times more likely to die than whites and before usually get to make the black of my patients from all over the Midwest, but with pandemic the hospital basically turned into a huge covid Ward for the city of Detroit and the patients in the ICU when now mostly black the staff says the majority were essential workers bus drivers police officers firefighters sanitation workers people from grocery stores.

3 (5m 47s):
It's

1 (5m 48s):
Colonel on a lot of levels

3 (5m 50s):
back to Geneva Tatum is one of the few black doctors in the ICU one of the senior doctors in the hospital. This is a pulmonologist the family moved to Detroit when she was 10. She has deep ties to the city now and a deeper awareness of what the virus is done to black people there.

1 (6m 5s):
I mean I've had friends parents. I've had multiple church members multiple Community leaders died, you know when I walk into the ICU and 59 A 16 patients is you know a black male between the age of 45 and 75. You know, it's really An emotional emotional thing

3 (6m 33s):
that Statham was alone because of the stress of covid. She's talking to a therapist for the first time her cousin.

1 (6m 39s):
She has way more phone calls with me when she would probably care to admit. I probably over thousands of dollars in counseling money.

3 (6m 55s):
We started recording the staff at this Hospital in mid-april because we wanted to see what it is like for them to be going for so long in this intense and difficult situation when I started recording these conversations on her iPhone for us with everybody's permission and knowledge and she said on emails before T people urging them to talk to us. And to be honest about what's really happening in hospital until everything including quote where we fail at times be you. She wrote. I love you the day in mid-april that we started talking to Rena in the Henry Ford, was he very first day that the number of people admitted to the ER was fewer than the day before it was a very first day after their Peak and the number of covid patients has slowly dropped since then he wanted to follow a hospital staff over time because we wanted to see how they managed and adapted and adjusted and and just what it did to them personally.

3 (7m 46s):
And so we did Regular calls with nurses and doctors on the Henry Ford staff for two and a half months and we're gonna bring you this. Our of the moments that just really struck us and surprised us of All Sorts from WBEZ Chicago. It's This American Life stay with us Robin semyon is the producer and our staff who talked to dr. Tatum who just heard and dr. Tatum told her this story that gives a sense of the situation at Henry Ford and in Detroit. Pattern explained in our first interview I asked dr.

3 (8m 28s):
Tatum a benign question about covid patients using FaceTime to talk to their families who can't visit the ICU because the disease is so contagious and as an answer she told me a story so harrowing it speaks to the relentlessness and Devastation of the disease on the city its speed and cruelty. There's about a patient in his early 40s

1 (8m 50s):
who had Down syndrome who was being cared for by his sister at home to sister brought him in with covid symptoms.

3 (8m 60s):
She was also taking care of her mother who was also sick with covid. So she had to drop him off at the hospital by himself.

1 (9m 7s):
We bring a man. He's very sick you, you know, we're gallons and and Mast and face Shields and glove. Did you know that physical barrier between us and him and we're trying to explain to him what in the world is going on? You know, he doesn't understand it. He just sees a bunch of people dressed this way and is scared confused wondering where his sibling is what's happening why he needs to wear oxygen. And then that's when it dawned on us. We have to figure out a way pretty quickly to help him understand.

1 (9m 50s):
So they use

3 (9m 50s):
FaceTime. This is one of the first times Henry Ford used it with covid patients. It was still early in the pandemic. Dr. Tatum and her team got the man sister on the phone on video. So she could explain to her brother house. Vicky was why the oxygen was necessary and then she told the doctors what might help her brother relax, you know

1 (10m 9s):
his favorite TV channel. This is favorite TV program and that he likes this for Aflac. He likes these things for activities. And so we are able to pretty quickly to get over things that needed to kind of, you know, create the environment as close to normal as it can be in an in an isolation room that you

3 (10m 30s):
will and did not work did a calm down

1 (10m 34s):
it absolutely did it absolutely

3 (10m 36s):
did. Meanwhile, she says his mom was at a different hospital with covid. And and her condition was worsening. His sister was monitoring them both from home and calling her brother all the time to check on him and keep his spirits up was she giving updates to her brother about

1 (10m 55s):
how their

3 (10m 56s):
mom was doing or was that like a bridge too far?

1 (10m 60s):
That was a bridge too far.

3 (11m 2s):
Oh wow. So he he really didn't know that his mom was

1 (11m 5s):
sick know and and and you know the sad thing in this case. Is that actually because the sister who was his caregiver was both taken care of him and his mother she got ill the staff down this out by accident

3 (11m 23s):
one day. They needed the sisters help and

1 (11m 25s):
we kept calling and couldn't get an answer and then after multiple attempts another sibling called and said hey, you know, I'm throwing so, you know other sister in the reason why you haven't been able to get in touch with my sister's because she is now passed away.

3 (11m 46s):
Oh my goodness. Oh my goodness.

1 (11m 52s):
I'm not really sure if he knows that his sister who's is caregiver has passed away. Yeah, because it you know, so it it was devastating to us as a team when we heard about that, you know, because we have this is this is the aftermath of what we're seeing and to know that you know, his sister who you know Spencer life, you know, making sure that he was okay, you know wound up dying from the very disease that we're treating him for was really really difficult.

1 (12m 38s):
And this is what we we've been seeing over and over again, you know, the person gets admitted to the ICU who you know tells us. Yeah. Well, my spouse is also sick or my daughter or son is also said, you know, we've had instances where we've had multiple family members and just one family, you know in Ric use, so it's really difficult. and something I don't think any of us could have even emotional we prepared ourselves for at its peak covid spread through Detroit like an invisible Wildfire

3 (13m 15s):
entire homes neighborhoods unrecognizable afterwards. The man, dr. Tatum treated was moved to rehab to recover from what covid did his body? What it did to his life is different. There's no rehab for that. Robin samians a producer a no-show at Guan God Bless America In April, when we first started talking to the staff at Henry Ford, the Intensive Care Unit was struggling with something. They had never seen before all these patients who are just not getting better these recovered patients who had either died or they'd stay stuck on ventilators for weeks and the staff had no idea how to get them off when that doctor read Oddish.

3 (14m 7s):
We heard at the beginning of the show would circulate through the hospital talking to staff and checking in they all knew that she has a very particular approach to medicine and to Patient Care Mickey make welcome back. Again Ira so yeah Ren has whole approach to Medicine comes out of an experience. She had back in 2008. She was a doctor here at Henry Ford and then she landed in her own AC was a patient. She had multi-system organ failure went on a ventilator and she told me her co-workers acted like she couldn't hear them, but she actually could what shocked and upset me the most was overhearing a resident in the hallway

1 (14m 41s):
say she's trying to die on me hearing in the The operating room she's circling the drain.

3 (14m 52s):
That sounds so scary to hear

1 (14m 53s):
that. Yeah, it was so

3 (14m 58s):
difficult to imagine my own recovery when everyone around me

1 (15m 2s):
was talking about me as if I was dying, but you know, I had said similar things.

3 (15m 10s):
She's circling the drain. Yeah. It was a culture of bravado and It was showing that you were Untouched by suffering. It was that it didn't matter. One of the things I've always felt sort of ashamed about is that our patients have been telling us these things for years when she recovered she returned to her job at the hospital with a new mindset. It was all about empathy but empathy would make her a better doctor not worse, which was the opposite of her training she Been taught that too much feeling clouds a doctor's judgement.

3 (15m 51s):
She in a small team revamped the way the whole system talks to patients and Rena wrote a book about her experience that's now used in medical schools. But when covid hit their I see you it became a possible for the staff to do some of the things run up and place like before covid when someone arrived unconscious or sedated into the ICU it always ask the family. What do you think your loved one would want me to know about them families would put up photos and bring quilts personalize the rooms the staff may likes. They really wanted to get to know the person they be caring for but under covid all that was impossible Camis could no longer come in and get to know the staff.

1 (16m 26s):
I had one nurse tell me just yesterday. I feel like all of my patients are the same.

3 (16m 35s):
Like, what does that mean all the same?

1 (16m 38s):
And in this case, they all have covid pneumonia. They're all proned. They're all on the ventilator. And so there was the risk of of depersonalization. Russian for the patient.

3 (16m 50s):
She said getting to know their patients was a part of their job that they really got a lot of satisfaction out of but they didn't totally realize that until covid took it away this change throughout the hospital was big as for the nurses. They're the ones who spend the most time with covid patients and our next story is about the nursing staff in pod for the ICU. And Henry for is broken up into these pods pot for was kind of the front line in the hospital's covid-19 effort. It was the very first pod designated as all coronavirus patients. the other ICU pods also became all covid all the time Ben Calhoun spent weeks talking to the nurses and pod for By mid-april the nurses and pod for had adapted to the alternate universe of covid-19 at least in certain ways when I mean take just the PPE that's the personal protective equipment.

3 (17m 38s):
They had to wear to go into covid rooms. This was a high-stakes thing at this point people had seen 10 ICU staff get covid two colleagues were in ventilators one nurse had died. Some people got superstitious about I always put on my gloves in this order. I always wear scrub cap under the paper cab. And then I won't get sick what I didn't get about the PPE until talking to the nurses and pod for was the mundane Relentless crazy making this of the very gear keeping them safe. This arduous ritual of rubber gloves tie up gowns p100 respirators that look like gas masks clear plastic face Shields.

3 (18m 19s):
They took five minutes to put it on to go into a room 5 to 8 minutes to take it off when you come out you might have You this as many as two dozen or more times every single shift how long it took to get into a room because of all the PPE is actually a good example of how covid changed what it was like for people to do even just the basic and normal parts of their jobs. Evan Guffey is a nurse in pod for he says you have these ICU rooms with Windows out onto the hallway like all shift long. You hear people banging on the glass windows. Because they need the you know, they went into the room and they forgot, you know, their supplies to draw blood or they forgot one medication.

3 (19m 6s):
So so that's like a regular sound. Yes. It's very irritating, but we're all doing it to each other. So there's a little bit of like a boom. Boom. Boom Oh not again. Yep. Yep. It was hard in the new world of covid to even communicate with these patients. It's to explain where they were and what was happening and to reassure them and to connect with them in the way that they're used to the way Rena Oddish talks about it was still puzzling out the ways to do that. These patients many of them were sedated alone in a room with the non stop sound of the ventilator, which is loud.

3 (19m 47s):
It's like a vacuum so nurses had to shout through their p100 mask, which is like a gas mask and a clear plastic face shield over the Roar of the ventilator. Now it's really your speaking through your eyes because that's really all I can see Anthony Valeri another nursing pod for you got to speak through your eyes because they can't see it or you just explain to them that you're smiling the only times I've said that I said I'm saying good morning with smile on my face right now. You know what you're here for.

3 (20m 26s):
We've been seeing for covid-19. Cocoon virus right now. Okay. Are you in any pain right now? In April a month and a half into all of this the nurses from pod for seem like people who are in the throes of a crisis, but also like people who are used to crises the first time I talked to Evan I asked how he's holding up. I'm good. Yeah, you know, I have a a good ability to kind of leave work at work. So, you know the second I leave I can kind of just not think

1 (21m 7s):
about it. But I'm holding up good

3 (21m 12s):
Sarah Davis is another nurse in pod for she's been hoping to take on extra shifts because her husband lost his job. Thanks to covid but you ask how she's doing. She's got the same kind of ICU nurse toughness, which I sort of grew up around. My mom was a neonatal ICU nurse. She talks like Evan who talks like Sarah,

1 (21m 32s):
I think kind of what I do and most of us do like here in the ICU things are hard. We can't what I kind of say is you put your pants on and you do it you can't complain about it. That's going to make it worse than

3 (21m 46s):
you you just you guys do it. I met a month later things change now. It seems likely that pod for patients who had been stuck on life support for weeks. Most of them would probably never recover. Evan was used to helping patients get better or giving them a dignified death. Now, he felt like he was seeing too many situations that were neither the nurses had not seen this coming. Sarah Davis told me she'd braced herself for the surge. But nobody envisioned this

1 (22m 25s):
part, you know, you go to work because you want to help people that we these patients any patients are why we go to work in the morning. Yeah, you know and when we can't when we can't help somebody or we're just kind of helping them just get through the day when a lot of this and this I don't want this to sound the wrong way. But we know that they're probably not going to make it out of there I right so and I you know, and I feel like I'm in a person optimistic by nature to and recently I'm I feel that as I feel like I have changed.

1 (23m 8s):
I'm more I'm more of like, my husband is a realistic eye and I'm not the mist and now I feel like we're we're kind of changing places.

3 (23m 20s):
When I talked to Evan Guffey in may he tells me about what he's struggling with the most that families are continuing to tell them to do everything. They can to save patients which he gets but there's a patient who kind of typifies what he's seeing the man several underlying health issues who's been stuck on life support for weeks. He's heavily sedated breathing tube down his throat eventually the man's kidneys give out so he's on constant dialysis. His lungs also give out. And even when they stop sedating him, he remains unresponsive. It's like

1 (23m 57s):
now what do

3 (23m 58s):
we do? You know, what are we doing here? we're just continuing to You know make these people suffer in a way. It's tough to see those people suffering everyday hooked up to all of these different lines and tubes and they're essentially unresponsive and we know you know, if we were to cut a couple of the interventions off, you know, they would pass away very quickly. Okay, so I think it causes a lot of frustration with the nursing staff.

3 (24m 44s):
because we feel like You know, we're prolonging the inevitable, you know, some of the frustration got brought up yesterday. We had one of our nurses talking with the Physicians, you know. you know about like well when when is enough Like when are we done, you know Evan means that the caring thing would be to let them die. I don't know Ben. I don't know.

3 (25m 27s):
It sounds like Everyone likes from what I could tell from the rounding. They're just really frustrated. They feel like they're torturing people. Thank you very much. I actually was around the same time Rena Oddish checked in with Erin dicks evidence eras boss. They were standing outside the nurses break room talking about exactly what Evan was saying. I feel like there and everything that we do is not doing anything, you know, and they're like, this is my fright. Like I feel you know, they You feel like yeah, like they're just keeping somebody alive when there's nothing we do have is changing. You know, I completely understand that feeling. You know, they talk about how pod for nurses are stuck in the worst position in medicine.

3 (26m 13s):
They're caught in the middle between patients who they worry are suffering. We're clearly dying and their families were holding out. Hope that they don't understand it. It's so abstract like we Wouldn't believe any of this if we weren't here, right? No, no, it's hot and you don't unless you're sitting here a day in and day out, you know and living it every day. You don't understand it. You do can't have the feelings that we all have and so it's I've been wondering if there's anything we should try to prepare to do differently maybe before the next way which is good. I hate to even say like if there are different timelines for these conversations by these Stations ran it means conversations with patients families.

3 (27m 1s):
She wonders if doctors and nurses need to change the language. They're using with them like when a patient is it getting better you were talking about this the other day. I think it's how we say things instead of saying when there's that second sort of saying we've seen progress today. Maybe we say we've seen a change today, you know, and this is what we've seen because it creates false hope right and so not to I don't want to instill that like, oh my God, they're getting better because they're still so crazy sick, but if we stay It differently, you know, yeah because we're so eager to get good news is right like we want to and so we yeah, but sometimes it's fault. Yeah. Yeah because they can tell it's a really wise and safe. They can change so rapidly so I think that's the were asking a lot of everyone right a lot.

3 (27m 54s):
Let's same week this week nine one of the nurses. I talked to Sarah Davis. She had a day were two patients died. And neither of them had family in the room with them. The first was a man. He was intubated so he couldn't speak Sara stood with a doctor and held an iPad wrapped in a plastic bag and front of the face of this dying man as a woman said goodbye to him

1 (28m 19s):
and just hearing that conversation. Ian was that woman who was talking to the patient who couldn't speak back to her, you know, just saying how much did she loved him and that it was a pleasure to have him to have him in her life. And you know, it was just really just so much sadness

3 (28m 42s):
in normal times. Sarah wouldn't even be witnessing. This kind of private moment families would come into the room doctors and nurses would

1 (28m 50s):
leave. The

3 (28m 51s):
chaplain the second death. This is the same shift Sarah and others in pod for gathered outside the room of a man who is dying alone and they prayed with the man's son who's on speakerphone

1 (29m 3s):
so that you know, that was hard

3 (29m 6s):
probably less than an hour after that. Sarah says the other patient the man with the iPad a couple family members were supposed to be there when he died, but things went wrong. The family told the hospital take his ventilator tube out and we'll be there to say goodbye at 7:30. So not long before 7:30 Sara was in the room. He was extubated but then this man starts dying much faster than normal and his family is not there yet.

1 (29m 36s):
So so I was waiting for them to come but while while we were I was waiting for them to come and I was making him comfortable and And I stayed with him while he died will be for his family came. So and he ended up passing right before his family

3 (29m 59s):
came. I can't stress enough how different this is from Sarah's normal job being alone with the dying patient since covid. It's common for nurses though in hospitals everywhere. With this man Sara stood by herself and held his hand and stroked his head. She told him he did a good job as she stared through the window hoping desperately that his family would appear

1 (30m 23s):
and then I came home and you'd appreciate this because your kids and I thought I was okay and I had come home. My kids are normally asleep or and I just picked in the room that that they were in and they both were looking like they were sleeping. I was just kind of looking at them crying and then they were both up and my son was like Oh. Are you sad and I start bawling my eyes out. Hmm, and I was like, yeah, I was a sad day and he and you know, he knows what I do and we called the virus the world bug and he asked if somebody died and so I told him yeah and I just like in six-year-old terms, you know that I was with him and that he was comfortable.

1 (31m 9s):
And so that was probably the saddest day that I've

3 (31m 12s):
had I'm so sorry. I can't imagine yeah.

1 (31m 19s):
It just really it just really

3 (31m 22s):
sucks. Around the same time early May covid cases have finally received in enough. The parts of the hospital are starting to go back to normal non covid floors are reopening people have been furloughed are coming back to work specialist. Who'd been assigned to covid IC use go back to their normal jobs, even the deli reopens. Some people tell Rena that they're surprised to find themselves feeling upset about other parts of the hospital going back to normal not because they're jealous, but because it makes them feel like this awful thing. They'd all gone through is being erased.

3 (32m 4s):
And for the staff of pod for with their 16 ICU beds, they're still a hundred percent covid patients and the covid patients are going to keep coming over and I talked to me about it.

1 (32m 15s):
I'm not seeing release and seeing sadness and that's the thing that starting to settle in is this is ours.

3 (32m 30s):
The release valve isn't coming anytime soon,

1 (32m 34s):
right the group of I think doctors and nurses who are caring for these patients are going to be the group of doctors and nurses caring for these patients

3 (32m 44s):
for the next two years,

1 (32m 46s):
and I don't know if we've

3 (32m 50s):
wrapped our minds around yet. Covid was this brutal New Normal stretching out all the way to the Horizon of the foreseeable future. Then Calhoun is one of the producers on our show. Coming up. Okay, your dad comes off a ventilator. His life has been saved. What is the very first thing he says to you we hear what happened in one family that's in a minute Chicago public radio when our program continues Support for This American Life comes from honey.

3 (33m 32s):
We all shop online and we've all seen that promo code field taunt us at checkout. But thanks to Honey the free browser extension manually searching for coupon codes is a thing of the past just download honey to your computer shop like normal click the apply coupons button and watch the prices drop. It's 100% free to use and installs in just a few seconds get honey for free at join honey.com American Let's join honey.com / American. Support for This American Life comes from Progressive Progressive has you covered when it comes to car insurance starting with built-in savings like discounts for being a safe driver and you can also save when you start your quote online or have multiple vehicles on your policy.

3 (34m 18s):
In fact drivers who switch and save with Progressive save $750 on average start a quote online and see all the discounts for yourself at progressive.com National annual average auto insurance savings by new customers surveyed in 2009. In potential savings may vary discounts vary and are not available in all states and situations. This Mac knife my hourglass Today's Show the reprieve stories of coronavirus at Henry Ford Hospital in Detroit not when they were busiest and things were the worst but in the weeks since as the number of cases steadily declined what you're hearing this hour is when things were less awful I should say before we go any further that of course this past week covid-19 cases across the country have been on the rise including in Michigan.

3 (35m 2s):
Anyway the first half of our show we focused mostly on the staff of the hospital in this half. We turn to the people that they try to If we've arrived it back to of our show at to Stan's good day and we found about the patient in this story from a recording made by a young doctor named Stan Linder who worked in the Intensive Care Unit during the second year of his training at Henry Ford studying his Specialties Nephrology and critical care. He said that he would binge Oreos to cope with the stress. I am not going to make my summer body goals. He told one of our producers anyway our producer Emanuel Barry put this together. It begins with a voice memo that's damn recorded for us on his phone.

3 (35m 44s):
This is April 30th, 2020 7:30 at night. And I've just finished my last covid ICU day. I've worked the last 11 days in a row and been sort of a crazy experience and today was really rough really rough I've had some really horrible moments horrible moments that I will always remember and I feel like I'm eventually going to have PTSD from this which sucks.

3 (36m 25s):
but one of my best moments in this has definitely been one of my patients and I will always remember her for the rest of my life. She was young. and Pregnant very long in her pregnancy very long. And the first day that I met her she was struggling to breathe like really struggling to breathe and you could tell that just by how fast she was breathing.

3 (37m 6s):
But she was in that same moment comfortable. Her face was total comfort. It was sort of eerie to see how fast she was breathing. 40 to 50 times a minute. That's very fast. That's almost one breath a second for you to inhale and exhale that quickly takes a lot of work takes a lot of muscle movement to do that. Eventually someone will tire out. And then he will stop breathing. Before the patient ended up intubated had to have her call her husband on the phone.

3 (37m 46s):
So we could have a conversation about what would happen. Not only to my patient but also her unborn child. That's an extreme conversation to have within five minutes of meeting a person. And so she was on the ventilator for seven days and ended up getting extubated on that seventh day. And she did great for a couple hours after she got extubated. and then by noon Everything went haywire.

3 (38m 26s):
And she was adamant adamant that she would not she absolutely did not want the two back end and I pleaded with her because her heart rate was up. She was so she was breathing so fast. Like I thought she was going to tire her out again, and she was adamant. She's like no, I do not want that to back him. And then two days later, she had a vaginal delivery. I have never liked. She had a vaginal delivery two days after getting excavated from a ventilator for 7 days.

3 (39m 12s):
Like that blows my mind it blows my mind blows my mind. a miracle amazing my patient survived my patients survive. I had to two patients in that room and they both came out healthy. And a lot of my patients especially in the beginning of all this did it. So I'm really glad I've had this experience right at the end.

3 (39m 56s):
What's the baby like?

1 (39m 58s):
Well, she's really tough baby. She want to be in arms all day and If you don't do what she washe was at the moment, she like got really mad and she give you this mad face and it's funny but this time use

3 (40m 24s):
and what I went through for you child.

1 (40m 29s):
Yeah,

3 (40m 36s):
this is Francesca Miranda Aquino. She worked as a chef at PF Chang's she's originally from Puerto Rico. Rico now, she lives in Mexicantown Southwest Detroit with her husband who's a preacher their two-year-old son, and now her newborn daughter who does not seem to appreciate what her mom went through to bring her into the world. Francesca remembers a few things from her time in the ICU. She remembers how hopeless the police seemed when they wheeled her in it felt like breathing in death. She says she remembers how days later when she came to no one else in her pod was awake and she remembers the moment stand talked about where she refused to be re-intubated.

3 (41m 17s):
It was the morning of the 21st. The tube had only been out for a few hours

1 (41m 22s):
and I remember that another doctor came in and he told me The my heart was beating really fast and my love pressure was really really hot. And he told me that probably they need to put the the two backs again and I need to relax and I told him no, no, you're not gonna put those two back again. And I told him is it past one hour when you to where they took out the twos on me, and now you would have put the tooth back on me. No, you just need to give me time. That's what I told him. You need to give me time where my body start reacting normal and he was like, okay

3 (42m 9s):
billions and billions of people have had babies Millions have gotten covid very few people like Francesca have done both at the same time. They decided to induce labor and she chose to do it alone because she thought it would be too dangerous for her family to come to the ICU where everyone had a covid remember she'd only been off the ventilator for two days. She was incredibly weak could barely raise her legs by herself at this point. She's still an oxygen the doctors wanted her to hold her breath and push but breathing in general was still tough. And then once the baby was born after 25 hours of Labor.

1 (42m 47s):
So when I The baby they really took the baby out of the room and I didn't get to see my baby after three days.

3 (42m 57s):
You didn't get to see the baby for three days.

1 (43m 0s):
Yeah after three days.

3 (43m 2s):
Yeah. Francesca was still recovering from covid and still no I see you. So she and the baby were separated when Francesco is well enough to be moved from the ICU to the general floor. She was told she would have to wear a mask and gloves, but she could hold her child for the first time.

1 (43m 18s):
That was like, oh my God. I thought I would never hold you, but I said really happy and I'm assumed I was with her in the room. I call my husband. I'll do your call. And my husband started crying and he got like my husband's I've really emotional person and he started crying and he was really excited. He put on the phone my son and my son was watching

3 (43m 47s):
his sister.

1 (43m 48s):
It was a really really good woman.

3 (43m 51s):
What's the baby's name at his best and Jessica's at home. Now. She's not working because she doesn't have childcare, but she's happy that she's no longer being poked and prodded with needles at the spittle out us Beth is doing great. She's perfectly healthy. Francesca says, she loves kisses from her big brother. She's sleeping through the night and already trying to roll onto her. Tummy Emanuel Barry. At three Granger in a Strange Land.

3 (44m 32s):
So Robert Granger was in pod for for three weeks. He got close with one of the nurses Sarah Davis. She's the nurse that you heard earlier who saw two people died in a single day the nurse who talked about becoming less of an optimist. She had a special connection with mr. Granger and attached a lot of Hope to his case. They talked about his wife who died of cancer in January and how hard is family to take? In it. He also talked about his grown daughter Jocelyn and as he got sicker Sarah really pushed him to phone Jocelyn.

1 (45m 3s):
here Sarah I like we're calling her. No, I don't want to I was like we're calling her. So but that what was really interesting about him and his daughter was as he was talking to his daughter. He was being so tough. But at the same time crying his wife had just passed away not from covid and he was doing everything that he possibly could because he didn't want his daughter to lose. Dad

3 (45m 37s):
Emanuel Barry put together this story about Robert Granger and his daughter Jocelyn Jocelyn's in her 20s. And her dad's in his 60s. He works for the city fixing buses. We called her one Friday and He needed to go to the hospital.

1 (45m 51s):
I'm like, that's all I need to know hung up. Randolph be it on my way to his house because I was scared. I'm like, I think he has it.

3 (46m 3s):
Yeah, what was that? What was that car ride,

1 (46m 4s):
like he probably was scared because I probably was driving like the Dragster at Cedar Point like it was to the point to where it was. I'm worried about I'm like I need to get him there because I'm thinking like I'm hearing all over the news that the running out of supplies and I'm like I need to get him in there just in case he needs a ventilator. Hey would like um, you know how fast you're going and I'm like, okay, okay reality reality and then Spike back up and I'd literally just remember drifting into the emergency because I seen the tents have my mask on he was in the backseat just the social distance for me. And then the last thing he said to me was I get out of here you take it be home don't drive like this will be go

3 (46m 51s):
back, but she can't take him home. He has covid. Ed and he's taken to ICU pod for as the days pass he gets worse the medications don't seem to work his breathing becomes more labored and then on Jocelyn's birthday. I got

1 (47m 7s):
a call from him saying like hey, I might be put on a ventilator and my no no no because the doctors are telling me the last thing they want to do is put him on a ventilator because most people are not making out so I'm freaking out then it turns out it was a false alarm and then a few days later. Later, I get a phone call and he just said is not looking so good. It almost sounds like he whispered it to me because he couldn't breathe one of these scariest phone calls of my life. Probably the top second. The first is when he called me to tell me my mother passed and now this was the second worst phone call I've ever received in my

3 (47m 50s):
life. Like how do you react to that

1 (47m 53s):
when I say it took so much muscle to not have my voice crack because I was getting ready to sob. I'm like, okay. I'll talk to you soon.

3 (48m 7s):
Why don't you want your voice to crack on the phone or for your dad to hear you getting

1 (48m 12s):
upset? Because if just like my mom if I worried he worries.

3 (48m 22s):
That's what he said about you.

1 (48m 24s):
Is that why he said he didn't want to he has to keep his composure to yeah. He didn't want you to

3 (48m 30s):
worry. hold it as you know, I love her and To that. I'm about to go on a ventilator and I don't know what's going to happen and I just told her, you know, let the family know one doctor I Minister and they came in and they put me on it. This is her dad Robert though. I'm going to call him mr. Granger because that's what Sarah Davis called him. And it just a solid dad named the nurses told us they often wondered what this all looked like from the patient's side. Here's how it looked for. Mr. Granger. When he was rolled into the ICU, he says he felt like he was inside a fish bowl. Lots of Windows.

3 (49m 11s):
Lots of people staring at him through those windows including Sarah Davis. There are stands out the most. I just remember her a lot of times looking through the window and a lot of the nurses and when there's some particular will hold off a little piece of paper and Sam we're praying for you as I started getting a little worse. I know this is just the doctors would they didn't come in at first they would just look it would you know, they would just look through the window look at me wave and then look at the meter at my My vitals what did it feel like to just have people looking I didn't know what to think at first.

3 (49m 52s):
Mmm, and then one doctor came in and he sat down and he asked me what I think and I say well I'm thinking things are not too good. This is when the doctors told mr. Granger, they might have to put him on a ventilator now suit if I'm on it for a reasonable amount of time and things don't look good take me off. That easy for you to make that decision or

1 (50m 18s):
no, but it's a decision. I

3 (50m 20s):
wanted to make I didn't want I didn't want my daughter to have to make that so one through my head is at that time. I didn't you know, they didn't know whether I was gonna make it or not. And the only thing I can think of is why my you know, we just went to losing my wife and my daughter's losing a mother now if I lose this she lose me. She's really going to be devastated. It's my daughter. She's emotional person on that phone call about the ventilator. Dad was trying to protect his daughter by being tough. Daughter was trying to protect dad by doing the same thing. But neither of them was conscious of this until Sarah the nurse who was getting to know them both pointed that out. Here's Jocelyn.

1 (51m 1s):
She just asked me like, you know, how was that? Like, how did you stay so strong and I said girl when I got up I was not strong at all. I let it out. She was like your dad literally sets. Same thing and I was like go figure and that's when I realized I usually am I was the sweetest person ever and I used to think I got the kind of thing where I can't say no to helping people. I used to think I got it from her. I kind of hung him and I was just like and just make me feel more guilty and I'm like, wow, I really wish I took the time to get closer to you equally as much as my

3 (51m 36s):
mom for ten days. He's on a ventilator and she wonders if she'll ever have more time. I'm with him. Johnson described this thing that really stuck with me and when you call into a hospital every day when you cannot see or talk to your loved one you live with a sort of picture of them and your head you're holding on to even though it's happening to them may be completely different than that image. There's this disconnect. So when she calls to check in on him a week or so in in her head, he's sleeping on a vent. But there's two answers the phone says, oh he's off the vet and he was she gets him on the phone.

1 (52m 17s):
And then like, you know, what one the first thing he asked it when he answered the phone to tell me that people thought the ventilator He literally asked me did I need any

3 (52m 29s):
money?

1 (52m 34s):
Are you serious right now? Now I'm like that and it just kind of like, you know, how someone does like a personality Quirk it just fun book their hole. Character that was it. I was like, wow, you literally just died and came back. And the first thing you ask is do you need any money? I just remember calling him on April 17th, which is my mom's birthday. He was still kind of like not conscious so ask the nurse and I'm like I'm like, you know as my dad awake and she was I know he's sedated. I'm like, okay good because they would been his wife's birthday.

1 (53m 14s):
I just want to make sure he's not sad or depressed. After four weeks in the

3 (53m 19s):
hospital. Mr. Granger was discharged to a rehab center when he was well enough to come home from their Johnson went to pick him up. She made sure to get all her crying done in the car before she got there

1 (53m 30s):
that I did like I try not to cry because I hate crying in front of my dad.

3 (53m 36s):
I do too because I

1 (53m 39s):
hate crying in front of my I don't know what it is, but I don't know. I just hate crying for the people, but it's just I really hate crying in front of me. My dad so I'm like don't cry. Don't cry. Like I let my crying out in the car. I was playing all of my like sad Reading Writing songs. So I'm like,

3 (53m 54s):
okay, what were you playing?

1 (53m 58s):
I think I'll have to go to my place because I played about like 65 pounds because the problem with me is I can never play a song fully like in the middle. I'm like, okay, I'm tired of the song next but I do know some artists. I played as someone as famous artists which are The Temptations Is The Whispers place on my mom's favorite artists which are the Bee Gees, which is hilarious. And when I seen him he's look different in a good way. Like my dad never had a beer before so I was like wow you have a beard and he looked so like thin not like in like a bad way it like you could tell he lost a lot of weight.

1 (54m 41s):
I said, I might wow and Mom's going to see you now. It just felt like we just kind of press play. It's like I you know how like you play a CD in it just skips and you're just in some random scene. Like I felt like I was just like in a random splash of Happiness. Like it just didn't happen like once I got him in that car. It felt like it didn't happen. I'm like, wow, like I literally have you in a car and you don't you know, I didn't expect you to look like this, but you look better. And then start talking about food and just normal things we talked about and I was like, wow, I feel like Winnie the Pooh and Christopher

3 (55m 24s):
Robin how

1 (55m 28s):
so it's okay every time I end of the movie they go to the special place where they just talk about random things and it's called the Enchanted Forest. And it's kind of like that whole car ride was just conversations the things you missed things have been going on random things that we talked about before what we've been craving to eat

3 (55m 55s):
and it just it felt amazing

1 (55m 57s):
and I'm like, wow, I almost I'm so happy that I almost forgot the trauma that I just experienced.

3 (56m 4s):
Mr. Granger is at home, but still in recovery when I talked to him he could walk Up to nine minutes at a time. He's hoping to make it around the blocks in without a walker. Emmanuel Barry at for mr. East Side some of the first covid patients to arrive at Henry Ford where police and others who'd attended community breakfast in early March called police and pancakes and we're especially interested in the story of that breakfast and those patients because it illustrates the scale of loss outside the hospital walls the scale of loss in the city of Detroit.

3 (56m 49s):
Aaron Foley is from the city. He used to work as the city's chief. Storyteller position in the mayor's office that focuses on detroiters telling their own narratives. He has this story of the breakfast and of one man in particular who ended up at Henry Ford, we're gonna take you to the east side of Detroit for a minute which is hard for me to do is always harder but I'll let it slide because I want to tell you the story of someone who embody everything the city's east side is made of marble Stoudemire. The east side is where some of the first black tea charges were able to legally purchase homes, and it includes some of Detroit's best attractions like Belle Isle which is something like our Central Park but it also includes zip code for a 205 which in addition to Die Hard loyalist has had one of the highest crime rates in the city the policing in that zip code and in the rest of the city include is so much excessive force that the Detroit Police Department the DVD was put under a consent decree for years.

3 (57m 47s):
And ever since police have been trying to establish a better relationship with the community the police and pancakes breakfast was part of that the precinct there the ninth Precinct held the breakfast to highlight the progress that had been made in the try to get more voices in the conversation about police like young people pastors and business owners. It was at Fisher Magnet of her Academy a table in the entryway for name tags and long Buffet tables where Heat at rates of hash browns eggs, and of course pancakes are waiting about a hundred people were at the opening session police officers, of course, but also residents representatives of the mayor's office state legislators ISM High achieving high school students, like senior Harley James.

3 (58m 35s):
He's wearing a suit on the school day his principal texted him that Before asking if he could come he's a good public speaker with a full ride to Michigan State this fall when he arrived the crowd was exactly what he expected. It would be a lot of old people it felt like one of them events that don't nobody go to but like I didn't expect no high schoolers together. It wasn't barely in high school. If they're it wasn't something a teenager will go to just like If they was just like oh, let's go to that. It was just like all grown people their money a czar who works in the mayor's office handling Community Affairs on the east side was speaking that day when she arrived she saw Harley and give him a big hug not surprised that he be out of the classroom for an event like this.

3 (59m 24s):
I mean the kid cannot work like nobody's business. He's just he's an incredible young man says, she's looking around the crowd to see who's here. Looking around at all the different police worried that the message. Breakfast won't come across and then I saw Marlo and that was a big reassurance that in fact it was going to be a good day and a great event. Marlo is a community stable industry. He had been tapped to help organize this event and holds one of the portions of the breakfast as well. Letty worked with him a lot last year side-by-side intense Community meetings where he put people at ease and got their trust, but she hadn't seen him in a few months, but I remember him walking through The the entry door and he just he gave me the biggest hug and lifted me right off my feet and we're both so excited to do this together that morning and and I was kind of reminded of that the minute I saw his face that

1 (1h 0m 21s):
you know, any concerns we had about how successful that day was me

3 (1h 0m 24s):
just kind of went away. But once you saw Marlo and got that hot, one of the other people Marla ran into was my friend Adam. Holy a we went to high school together now, he's a state senator. Is any part of the east side? So he's always at events like the pancake breakfast. But today he wasn't giving out any hugs. I was taking covid-19 very seriously people were like foot tapping or elbow bumping but I wasn't I

1 (1h 0m 51s):
was trying to

3 (1h 0m 53s):
keep my distance with folks just because my mother had recently got through chemo and I was you know, being operating under an abundance of caution throughout this process and then he saw Marlo and he forgot all that. Nobody has a quick interaction with Marlo started my I mean, you know you that's a guy that makes you feel like Like you matter right a good friend of mine was teasing. They're like models that hustle guy who found his way to work in the system not on the outside of it. So it's like hey, I need five turkeys

1 (1h 1m 25s):
or or I need to get you know, these

3 (1h 1m 27s):
kids from this practices practices and then all of a sudden you need a referee. It's like well where you can get the referee you just call Marlo. Everybody has a story about Marlo and Marla seem to know everybody who was trying to make life better for black Detroit. He'd host these people on a makeshift talk show. So he did on Facebook five. I want to talk to you about a special guest that I have today. He's killing it right now and in a major way Brittany roads. Yeah, that's her is the founder of black girl Masjid writes math and Magic. I first met Marlo when we were both invited to speak at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology for a panel about Detroit. Of course, I just started working for the mayor's office as Chief Storyteller and I was getting some backlash because the mayor is white and that I had a long career as a journalist in the mayor hired me during an election year people said I sold out I heard rumors about me that I was just hired on to finesse the mayor's image and because of that I didn't know when you tried I could trust that very first time I met him Marvel sense.

3 (1h 2m 32s):
Something was wrong with me during that trip to Boston. So he got me to open up. He was a star me and I share it with him some of the mixed emotions. I was having about what people were saying about me back home. He told me Me and I quote that really pisses me the fuck off that people would say that about you and if anybody has anything to say about it, we're going to deal with them. I never forgot that Marlowe told me to fuck them his words. He told me that folks are rooting for me. Most were watching me folks are wanting me to do well and that he was excited for me and he was counting on me just weeks after the breakfast.

3 (1h 3m 13s):
Marlowe Stoudemire would become the first person in the try to publicly identified as dying from the virus. Yo yo, yo, good morning Detroit. Good morning. This is Marlo Stoudemire with another edition of Saturday morning coffee at another location as you will see in find out in a few minutes here. He is the day after the police and pancakes breakfast discussing the event on his makeshift talk show which he hosted every Saturday on Facebook live. I had the privilege of being invited by Justin kempson at the fort resourcing. Miss in a shout out to Justin over on the east side to facilitate a conversation between the community and the Detroit police department and was called police and pancakes and the cool thing about it was is that they brought in a different beliefs and different Community stakeholders and the whole conversation was how to create a better Community experience with the Detroit police department.

3 (1h 4m 5s):
And on that video. He also talked about his health. This was before covid really hit Detroit. It wasn't on most people's minds and he chalked it up to his life. Tile hustling grinding always going hard 24/7 I ran into one of my frat brothers over the weekend last weekend and he said man, you know, I really like the stuff that you're doing the moves you making out here and all these other different things but one of the things that he talked about was he said make sure you take care of yourself. He said you need to find a way to have self care and what's interesting is that this week was a week where I felt bad. I had a few health challenges. I had a procedure done this week and I realized that I hadn't been taking care of myself.

3 (1h 4m 48s):
So I need to make some adjustment one knows exactly how covid started spreading through Detroit the law enforcement was hit hard in the beginning and dozens of officers were at policing pancakes at its height more than 500 dpd employees were quarantined to contain the spread about a fifth of the force as covid spread through Michigan. I remember looking at what people in Detroit were sharing on Facebook. There are a lot of requests for prayer. There are the jerks to some about how Vernors the popular ginger ale was all these charges needed to beat this deadly virus after police and pancakes the Detroit Health Department began letting attendees know that they may have been exposed to the virus people started wondering if they were carriers and who they might be passing it on to Harley had left police and pancakes and went back to school Letty left for another Community event and district for Adam went to mingle with some pretty big names as soon as I left the breakfast I went over to the Joe Biden office opening Joe Biden for president Peace and still, you know was there with the LG the lieutenant governor representative Yancey and tape and former Governor Blanchard is we kind of kicked off the office and I drove up to Cornell and then kind of came back at and that Monday night.

3 (1h 6m 12s):
We had the the Big Joe Biden rally at Renaissance it and that was you know, the last big event that I'd gone to but at that same moment, you know, I bumped into Cory Booker and huh Kamala Harris and you know a host of Congressional members and with the governor, you know, when I got the call maybe a week later that Marlo had had, you know, tested positive. It was like man God. I just hope I didn't give you know, somebody, you know covid-19 and when you look back at those moments, it was all very scared because you're like will win how if do I have it?

3 (1h 6m 53s):
He didn't get sick. Marlo wants worked at Henry Ford as community and diversity manager and later director of international business strategy when he got there in March. He was one of the first patients treated for covid-19 in pod for in the ICU. His time there was short he died on March 24th. Someone from work a mutual friend caught lady with the news was he the first person you knew that a pass from it or he was but interestingly three hours later. I got a call on

1 (1h 7m 29s):
dpd friend who had passed away. That's Jonathan Parnell who is one of our dpd captains and I've known his family for some time. So he was a great guy very well respected police officer and member of the community. So it was Marlo and Recon that day and then the next day two more and then the next day stream or and that week of March that Marlo passed away was

3 (1h 7m 58s):
I just I hope to never have to live anything like that, but it was just unbelievable the number of calls and texts and people you knew that you worked with you prayed with you ate with you grew up. Ew up with that you would see at Community meetings that you realize you're just never going to see again. We lost so many valuable souls in the city and to come out of this and demek. They be the first people you turn to to say. All right, how do we how do we get everybody? You know, how do we help rebuild some momentum and they're not there.

3 (1h 8m 42s):
Over the next few hours on that day. She would start to pour in across social media about Marlo about how Detroit lots of giant a champion whatever your preferred term. Maybe there was now a void that couldn't be filled. Who do you call now we need advice or when you need mentorship who calls you when you need to be checked on who Among Us. Did he leave and what would he be doing now in this moment when racial inequities have been laid bare not just by the virus, but also by the killing of Floyd and Atari another name you here at demonstrations these days is Ayana Stanley Jones. She was a seven-year-old girl from the East side who was killed in a police raid while she slept on the couch back in 2010.

3 (1h 9m 29s):
Adam holy a my friend. The State Rep says Marlowe will be jumping in right now to help realize the goals of black lives matter wherever the biggest need is. Oh Marla, I mean Marlo is the type of person who

1 (1h 9m 42s):
would have been in the Forefront but he'd also

3 (1h 9m 44s):
have been someone that white people would have been reaching out to right. So I have gotten a number of calls and texts from my well intention caring white friends who were like, hey, you know, just checking in on you. you know thinking about you model would have been

1 (1h 10m 3s):
you know the king of getting those kind of things right like there have been a host of people reaching out to him

3 (1h 10m 7s):
they say well how can I be helping him like well you can do these three things right they say I got this organization that is doing this work you can donate your business could hire more black people you can do these things and I think people are now willing to say that black lives matter what they aren't willing to say is how much they

1 (1h 10m 23s):
value them

3 (1h 10m 24s):
right like how much do they matter he would have been uniquely situated to have those conversations with people James speaking the fourth is another one of those connectors in Detroit who I know knows everybody any time I see him out he's in a Blazer and a button-up shirt but now do I have to be in like soundbite I'm on the air mode or can I just talk just are all right because yeah I'm in gym shorts on my patio right now not I'm not on right now that's fine Both James and Marlo are around 40. They both grew up on the east side during that chaotic time in Detroit when crack started to ravage the city. They both built their careers in Detroit dedicated to Detroit.

3 (1h 11m 9s):
Where is Marlo missing right now? You know, this was a question. I start thinking about the other day and it was tough because I'm still mourning a lot of us

1 (1h 11m 26s):
are. but

3 (1h 11m 30s):
the sad irony that Marlow's

1 (1h 11m 36s):
last ax

3 (1h 11m 40s):
was at a you know a policeman pancakes breakfast on the far East Side trying to Foster positive sorry possible relations with young black males in the police that's what's missing right now you know there's a lot of us who may have had negative experiences with police but we also got you know police in our family you know friends if we could create more forms like that then it would help everybody because our goal is it anybody know number one stays alive and number two like has a chance to contribute to a better Detroit than a better black community and I get to see him right now being that person that would you know real anger is all about having the George Floyd but also have some real relationships so point to and lean on when I talked to Marlo's wife Valencia she didn't want to discuss the final days of her husband's life and says their two children are still adjusting to life without their dad but she told me the story about an overseas trip they took just this past fall we went to Rome in October and literally we saw the Coliseum and he was like

1 (1h 13m 20s):
Tearing up and I'm like, oh babe, you know, it was super strong. You know, he's like you just

3 (1h 13m 26s):
don't understand

1 (1h 13m 27s):
like I'm not supposed to be here. Like this was what I find textbooks. This was not real. You know and just what have me to believe. that it wasn't it wasn't real for me as a black male. It wouldn't be my reality to see it. And it was all overwhelming pleasure. I'm so glad we got to have that experience, but it was very important for him that he beat the odds.

1 (1h 14m 10s):
And there are so it was important to him that not only that he beat them. But

3 (1h 14m 16s):
all of the young men that looked like him behind him

1 (1h 14m 20s):
had an opportunity to do something

3 (1h 14m 24s):
and I think that

1 (1h 14m 26s):
was the most important thing to him.

3 (1h 14m 36s):
last year Marlo did this thing for 50 days straight where you stay he tried a Facebook post about to black people in Detroit he saw potential in which he later turned into a website called roster Detroit this came after a chamber of commerce official said and Amazon and choose Detroit for its new headquarters partly because the city didn't have enough Talent miles response was this list to say here's what you missed out on right now now the list of people who've lost a covert is too long so too is the list of people we've lost to police brutality these lists are about black death but at this moment I like to think about roster Detroit models listed Black Talent a list that's about black people living and Foley is about to become the head of the black media initiative at the Newmark Graduate School of Journalism at the City University of New York I'm looking at the sun and the window I don't know if y'all can see it it says Nothing Stops Detroit Nothing Stops the people of Detroit troit is what I would say and the point that I'm making is y'all look if not us then who you got to make a decision about who you going to be right and the city has to make a decision about what it's going to be and who it's going to be and I will tell you right now it's tough but the

1 (1h 16m 11s):
last time I checked

3 (1h 16m 13s):
this was the D and so I will just say stay motivated stay connected and help people help people help people help people if you hit me up all right Dee holla it's a cold world but is going on we got no choice but to run it up any just one is a hundred about mine I mean was he you don't become that it's a cold world but his woman on we got no choice but to run at all and I just want us a hundred us might not mean much to you owe me something well program has produced a by Mickey making a manual buried people put together a show today includes Bim at a win Susan Burton Ben Calhoun did achieve a strong call of either the kornfeld Hillary alkanes nor gilding great Michelle Harris Genesis Thomas and Kathryn a Mondo Lisa powered maria.raymond Brian rear up and semien Chris trosset Allah and mad Tierney a managing editor Diane wound Sarah abdirahman executive editors David kestenbaum special thanks today to Michael I can horn Sarah Gob Jackie Femme Christian chasteen Ken North shine Patrick Bradley Brittany Brown come on Jones Tatiana Grandma kinda magical and Manny mixin John ran a shuisky Jeffrey Ross on your Russell Marcus turkey well Angela Wicks sir Alvarez Todd medicine Pamela Chen Tony Davis Killian Grafton and Lyoko Scott Kate's Tucson night for Carter marble carry Morgan Betty Morris for Athena real John Roach treated on a row and Steve Pony Stacy Pantera Zachary Smith Jeff watch Eric and State Line the journalism project funded by the Pew charitable trusts our website This American Life dot-org This American Life is delivered a public radio stations by PRX the public radio exchange for This American Life comes from Life way Foods leading you astray fire of kefir machen food from the Caucasus Mountains has provided microbiome support for 2,000 years Lifeway Foods love your guts more at wife wait Foods.com thanks as always to our programs co-founder mr.

3 (1h 18m 17s):
Tory Mell Atia you know he actually met Donald Trump ones this was years ago kind of a weird story he literally asked me that I need any money I'm Ira Glass back next week with more stories This American Life Run It Up and I just wanted to hunting us might not mean much to you and me come to

1 (1h 18m 41s):
us it's a cool

3 (1h 18m 46s):
next week on the podcast of This American Life imagine if that's how you felt about your job and this guy was your boss today I don't feel like riding any rides this by the way is a staff meeting want to play all the games we go behind the scenes at an amusement park and meet the guy singing this song who is possibly better suited for his job than anyone I have ever met next week on the podcast on your local public radio station in games