3 (1s):
Support for This American Life comes from Progressive. One of the country's leading providers of auto insurance with progressives Name Your Price tool you say what kind of coverage you're looking for and how much you want to pay and Progressive will help you find options that fit within your budget use the Name Your Price tool and start an online quote at progressive.com price and coverage match limited by state law. When I first heard about the new Chinese National Security Law that went into effect this month in Hong Kong. It's person. I wanted to talk to you about it. Is this Hong Kong protester that I will call Jennifer Jennifer somebody who I and a couple of other producers from our show spend time with and went to protest with last fall so many things that you said to us back then would now be illegal under the new Chinese while in fact any criticism of China or the Hong Kong government anybody calling for democracy in Hong Kong.

3 (54s):
Anywhere in the world could be prosecuted under this law. Concrete United States to support the protesters which Jennifer did that is illegal that the Chinese decided to talking to reporters like us is collision with foreigners. That would be illegal chanting at protests about Hong Kong Independence has been declared illegal damaging subway stations is categorized as terrorism with severe penalties books by activists have been removed from public libraries people been arrested for carrying pro-independence Flags China setting up its own separate National Security apparatus in Hong Kong to handle this. Cases maximum penalty or life in prison we're going to do today on a program is play you the episode that we made last fall about the Hong Kong protesters where we tried to explain the feelings and the ideals behind the protests.

3 (1m 42s):
And then at the end of the hour, we will pay you the interview that I just did with Jennifer this month on the second full day of the new I went to a fact about the law. If you're listening to the podcast version of our show and you heard this episode when we first put it out in the fall and you just want to jump to the new Apart with Jennifer the new interview it starts around 14 minutes from the end. Okay. Here's the episode. It's nearly 2:00 in the afternoon. When we be Jennifer's family's apartment. Jesus got enough. She's still waiting a very quick breakfast.

2 (2m 14s):
I'll finish my noodles and I'll start packing

3 (2m 18s):
with my coworker manual Barry. I'm going to quiet working-class neighborhood and part of Hong Kong. It's called new territories. It's a Sunday. So Jennifer's getting ready to do what she does every weekend what you did yesterday. In fact, that's why she slept quite she's going to a protest with little backpack.

2 (2m 35s):
This is the back. And that I usually bring this is a maroon bag. It's a very small one we have to keep everything light. So I always have a bottle of water

1 (2m 47s):
and many teachers. I have to bring a lot of tissues because we need to Y Bar eyes when there is tear gas and because I know how to do first

2 (2m 56s):
day. I always bring my first aid kit first aid kit is a little

3 (2m 60s):
ziplock bag with roller bandages and Gauze and gloves and stuff to sterilize the wound Jennifer started in the volunteer ambulance. And score in 7th grade and has used all this stuff at demonstrations. She packs her wallet and her are pods

1 (3m 12s):
because I have to listen songs

3 (3m 15s):
to batteries for a phone because he's on a constantly joined protests checking the continuously updated online maps that show where the police are and show Escape Routes. She packs a black T-shirt the uniform in Hong Kong protesters is black shirt black pants surgical masks to disguise their identities. So she's wearing a striped maroon shirt for the bus ride to the protest. Mm.

1 (3m 36s):
Yeah, I wear our normal t-shirts when I go out so that no one could identify. I'm going to protest and sometimes I bring makeup so that I can transform myself after the protest

3 (3m 49s):
and how do you transform yourself? Like what's the

1 (3m 51s):
I bring consolation first of all, but can't do everything

3 (3m 57s):
how different you going to look with that Foundation.

1 (3m 60s):
It looks like you're not going to protest because girls were going to protest a barely do makeup, but if girl Doing makeup. They're probably meeting someone and so I bring this one and then of course, I'd bring my brow pencil because it really can make you look like another person

3 (4m 17s):
and I agree

1 (4m 19s):
and I bring lipstick. Sorry. It's the first

2 (4m 22s):
one. So we're in your room your room

3 (4m 25s):
has pink walls and there is a bunk bed with the bed on the top and a desk underneath

1 (4m 31s):
it. Yeah. Sorry typical hongkongers room

3 (4m 36s):
for Hong Kong protesters to live at home with her mom and dad that is not unusual in any way if you know anything about the demonstrations that have overtaken Hong Kong since June, you know, it's mostly young people in the city where rents are high Jennifer is 22 and just graduated college. She's working her first entry level jobs public. Firms I came to Hong Kong because there were things about the protests that I really did not understand and we'll get to that one of the things that fascinated Me Once I arrived was wondering what a routine the protests have become and what that was like for the people in them. This is Miss September the 13th week of protests for Jennifer.

1 (5m 13s):
I'm not really worried test is just like another day. I think I will meet up with two two friends of mine, but I'm not sure if I am going. To because they are couples. I don't want to

2 (5m 26s):
be they are comfo so I don't want to be

1 (5m 31s):
the always kiss next to me. So yeah

3 (5m 36s):
why speak of the devil? It's her friend when he kisses her boyfriend at demonstrations, and she's calling with bad news. She's gonna bring gas mask to the rally today. They'd order them from Amazon Jennifer thinks the now she's learned the bringing gas masks would be a bad idea because at the subway station

1 (5m 52s):
police are searching a Buddy, including man little ones and young people like us there especially the backs and if they have any equipment with them like the gas masks eye mask whatever they just arrest them. Yeah, so my friend just asked me if it is a must for me to get the gas mask. So I told her that no is not a mask. I don't want to risk my friend getting searched. So they she told the other friend not to come out with with

3 (6m 24s):
equipment not ideal, but she's gone without gas mask before Jennifer grabs. Her knapsack says bye to her mom to tell her to come home early. I requested will be totally ignored we had outside.

2 (6m 39s):
But then she turns and runs back. What'd you forget umbrella? It is very important to Umbrella. Even if it's not going to rain. Yeah, it is not for the

1 (6m 49s):
ring. It is for tear gas and

3 (6m 52s):
bullets rubber bullets. That is

2 (6m 55s):
it works on bullets. Yes, frankly. Yes. No. No, I don't understand why but always those bullets they slip off along the umbrella Edge, so they just they don't get through the Rela,

3 (7m 8s):
also protesters hide behind a wall of umbrellas and the painting graffiti or dismantling or closed circuit TV camera on the street doing anything else. They don't want the police to see

2 (7m 19s):
if she and I in a manual head to the bus stop. We noticed other young people caring full-sized umbrellas on this totally sunny day talking over here like to the bus. Are you like looking around to see if other people you think are going to protest always want to know how many peoples are around me, right? Yeah, and so there's like some young people in our left two people standing next to you. I think the girl probably is not history history brings up our small back but the tall guys, it's called this whole guy in white shirt. Yeah, and then the couple behind you probably it's like are you on my

3 (7m 55s):
side? Are you one of us went through the protest everybody's in a mask? So you don't really know who's on your team here in the neighborhood is kind of exciting to wonder who your allies might be. The protests in Hong Kong have been international news for months picked off by people's fears that mainland China is threatening some very basic things about their city and their lives before other coverage here at our show. We finally we weren't seeing many stories where we got to know anybody very well who they were what exactly they expect it was going to come out of the protest given China's intransigence three of us arrived in Hong Kong and mid-september me and a manual and a co-worker Diane. Whoo, I have to say one of the things that was Fascinating given the ugly state of democracy here in the United States lately was to be among so many young people who believe so intensely in democratic ideals and urine so deeply for the basics like normal elections free speech and free assembly though just a nice few weeks since we got to Hong Kong.

3 (8m 53s):
We'd like to situation changed dramatically. It's gotten much more violent harsh new measures by the government this hour, we have the story of the change that we witnessed what we think it might mean. If you haven't been following this story at all, maybe even sitting this one out. We're going to catch you up on what you need to know. We have all sorts of people from all sides of this that we want you to meet WBZ Chicago. It's This American Life this week overseas with a lot of people who have some very American values stay with us that guy on the curse generation. Okay. So what politicized thousands of thousands of people this much?

3 (9m 34s):
But they've dropped their normal lives and the coming out every single weekend to protest. It's now been 18 straight weeks take Jennifer for instance to somebody who worked at Abercrombie & Fitch during college. She told me on the bus to the protest. That's why your English is so good. Somebody wanted to be a singer actually got a chance to Go Pro when she was 16, but her mom quash that thing was too much of a long shot and she should get an education and get a normal job. Jennifer was actually very surprised when he informed her that an American parent. Like I said the same exact thing.

2 (10m 4s):
A lot like American Dreams can be true something like that because I watch Glee.

3 (10m 12s):
How did this Glee watching internet Savvy college grad and first office job. How did you end up protesting in the street every weekend with tens or I don't know maybe it's hundreds of thousands of her peers for starters. Jennifer's 22, which means she's part of a special generation in Hong Kong

1 (10m 29s):
born in Hong Kong in 1997 right before the Handover

3 (10m 33s):
and here. The protesters are calling

1 (10m 35s):
Alice and I'm born in

3 (10m 37s):
1997. He's her friend. We're going Tiffany.

1 (10m 40s):
I'm also by

3 (10m 41s):
1997. You can come in June and I'm born in 1987

1 (10m 46s):
to 1997 is the year when Hong Kong was headed over back to China from the British.

3 (10m 52s):
Okay, let's just pause on these 22 year olds for a minute for some quick history as you may or may not know Hong Kong sits on the edge of mainland China right? There was a British colony for a really long time starting in the 18th century then finally in 1997 British got out hand it over to China. The idea was there's going to be a 50 year transition period after 50 years China will fully be in charge but during that 50 years Hong Kong would be a democracy

2 (11m 20s):
Now Hong Kong people are to run Hong Kong.

3 (11m 25s):
That's a nice British governor of Hong Kong during the Handover ceremony in 1997.

2 (11m 30s):
That is the promise. And that is the unshakable destiny.

3 (11m 37s):
I did he clear Hong Kong had not been a democracy under Britain, but they were going to transition towards it every bunch of years and the Hope was after 50 years in 2047. The Chinese government let them stay a democracy which at the time did not seem like a crazy idea China was opening up in all kinds of ways though. It wasn't clear how this was going to play out. At the end of the day after 50 years in the year 2040 seven China was going to be able to do whatever it wanted in Hong Kong. These are the children born the year that clock started ticking and have you heard of the phrase cursed generation.

2 (12m 12s):
Yes, it works this joke among the 1997 people. It was smooth pretty much a joke or pretty

1 (12m 20s):
much a funny thing to us

2 (12m 21s):
because I think I would first joke about it. It's really primary schools,

3 (12m 24s):
but it has generation is just what I've been joking our for all those years originally the joke had to do with a coincidence. They were cursed because of some weird bad luck during some big childhood miles. On sale went through together like the year their kindergarten graduation the SARS virus hit Hong Kong and City shut down graduations were canceled six years later when they should have had their Elementary School graduation same thing happen again, but it was swine flu and Jennifer remembers that her friends joke that when they graduated high school it was going to be a boa and that's when they started using the word cursed.

1 (12m 58s):
I think that was the time around the time the JK Rowling wrote Harry Potter and the cursed child. Yeah, so many of us are all where

2 (13m 8s):
the cursed I always say that we are the chosen one because Harry Potter was the chosen one all of us love Harry Potter. So we always know where the chosen when we have to face something special in our life or we are the

1 (13m 19s):
cursed one. We have to face something bad or if it's something

3 (13m 23s):
significant. Jennifer says a chosen one side of things didn't really kick into their senior year of high school those 2014. They were 17 the 17th year since the Handover and that your people in Hong Kong was still expecting that mainland China was going to let them start holding full on elections where they could choose their own leaders as promised back in 1997 and that year China announced it wasn't going to happen.

2 (13m 50s):
This led to a movement called the umbrella movement headed by young people teenagers who turned to politics in these Public School classes that all these 22 year olds talked about as being instrumental in their thinking causes the began as part of the Handover called liberal studies classes, but explained among other things. The promise is 1997. And the rice is Hong Kong citizens. They took to the streets most of them for the first time the banding the boat carrying umbrellas thousands of people in a vast. And down the streets and protest movement that was almost entirely peaceful. And they lost didn't get

3 (14m 28s):
the vote after 3 months. The protest ended Alice works for a multinational company in an entry-level job out of college. She's a management trainee. She says you went to some protest back then out of solidarity with their

1 (14m 41s):
peers. I was just amazed by the other

3 (14m 44s):
students, but you didn't I get all the politics that change in June 2019 when Hong Kong introduced the bill that would allow mainland China to extradite people from Hong Kong to be tried and punished in China under He's all this is seen as a new and very menacing encroachment on the rights of Hong Kong citizens since 1997. They've been ruled by Hong Kong laws and Hong Kong courts. Everybody is Presumed Innocent, but the rights we know in most democratic countries. Now anybody can get thrown into the prisons and courts of communist China,

1 (15m 15s):
I'd say like that that was the time when I first feel awakened when I'm truly understanding what's happening when I first go to the march of the no extradition bill. And I was very very emotional at that time because like there is only around 7 million people in Hong Kong but 1 million walk on the street with the same Demand with the same wish of like huffing Hong Kong to remain its current day.

3 (15m 47s):
When in Hong Kong to stay like it is with the tongue laws separate from China. A week later too many people came out

1 (15m 54s):
at the time. I was feeling very oh my God, this is so touching like why is people so United and then the next second the government just declares that oh, we heard your voice but where we will be continuing on the bill on Tuesday. So that was like a really big contrast and like in the morning you see how peaceful things were that and now you see the police coming out and start brutally hitting people I would like It was really Unforgettable to me because that was the first time when I witnessed with my real eyes that the police is chasing people. They are chasing students who did not do anything and stop to bit them and arrest them.

3 (16m 43s):
Other 22 year olds also notice how radicalizing it's been see police tear gassing and beating peaceful protesters. And at this point, I don't understand this before we got to Hong Kong a lot of the emotion driving. The protest is just about the police

1 (16m 56s):
because the government is supporting them to do such things and there is no penalty for them. Even

2 (17m 1s):
if they are doing things that are

1 (17m 3s):
completely and acceptable to everyone.

3 (17m 13s):
Of course. Nobody knows where this is going to lead by 20 47 when China fully takes over Hong Kong, but for Jennifer and lots of other people her age things were starting to feel pretty ominous was Hong Kong going to become just like any other Chinese City run by the Communists when you're 50, what do you picture life here will be like

1 (17m 32s):
I can picture that I would be super depressed because I still / like comment on political thing. I really cannot imagine the day that I cannot speak freely on Internet that we do not have that freedom of speech anymore. And I cannot imagine that there will come a day me and my friends commenting on the government would become a

3 (17m 58s):
crime and you think that would happen.

1 (18m 1s):
Yes, I do when like all the things that is happening in mainland China now, especially I would say in Where's sing Junction John? Yeah, what is happening in xinjiang will happen in Hong Kong.

3 (18m 17s):
She's talking about internment camps with a Chinese are holding perhaps a million uyghurs and others.

1 (18m 22s):
They say it's re-education, but it's basically a concentration camp the put people who does not who do not agree with the government into the concentration camp. And as you can see I have and they got monitored wherever and whenever they go everywhere is police police monitors everybody smooth and I Do you think that if we do not fight for our future there will come a day Hong Kong would become like in

3 (18m 48s):
Jam because she's politically active. This is not feel like an abstract threat when he's 22 year olds picture who China is going to crack down on its them Tiffany's also in a first job out of college who works at a bank Jasper us to replace your voice with an actor's

1 (19m 3s):
who knows whatever they would do to us and under the extradition for you. Who knows where we will go what time you disappear? That's what we feel. Of

3 (19m 12s):
Tiffany's heard of the social credit system. The China's started to Monitor and rated citizens to preserve China decides that your auntie government will make it impossible for you to get the job. You want rise in society and the device is the China uses to monitor. Its population an estimated 200 million surveillance cameras around the country with facial recognition software. They've been going up around Hong Kong tens of thousands of them

1 (19m 37s):
many like me a scare of being Monitor and raise it so that we will never ever

3 (19m 42s):
We'll be free to do anything that we want under the monitoring of the Chinese government. This is something else. I didn't understand before I came to Hong Kong the protesters like Tiffany and Jennifer don't just fear what's going to happen to them in the future with extradition laws or within the internet or losing free speech and their daily lives right now. They believe the watching China already transforming Hong Kong making it less like the Hong Kong no more like the mainland Jennifer points of changes in the public school curricula, like she says her 7 year old nephew. Speaking Mandarin in school five days a week. I didn't happen when she was a kid mandarins. Would they speak in? Mainland China and Hong Kong people mostly speak in Cantonese and

1 (20m 23s):
English. So all the Chinese classes are conducted in Mandarin. So he speaks Mandarin everyday. Basically, he's speaks Mandarin better than English.

3 (20m 34s):
Can you can you explain a little bit like why Cantonese is so important

1 (20m 38s):
Cantonese is more like an T to us

3 (20m 43s):
it's part of what makes Hong Kong Hong Kong these days when Jennifer pictures would have life is going to be like between now and twenty forty seven She imagines her own kids going to Public Schools not studying Cantonese coming home and parroting the pro-government line. That'll be the curriculum by then.

1 (20m 58s):
So I do love kids. I really want to have kids. I want to have a football team of kids really, but I just cannot imagine the life. They will be happening in Hong Kong later on. I I cannot promise my kid happy life. If I am not certain about what Will Hong Kong

3 (21m 20s):
become. You don't think there are children who are raised to be happy in mainland China.

1 (21m 26s):
Not not the kind of happy that I think Hong Kong like mainland China people. They think that they are happy because they can still live but then we we want things more than just surviving in this Society. We look for rights and freedoms and human rights, but Mainland China's they ignore all those things. They just think having a stable life helping It's having foot a good place to live in is already happy enough. Yeah,

3 (21m 57s):
another change. She says she seeing right now in Hong Kong. She's upset it all the mainlanders moving there in her neighborhood and University students that she and her friends encounter to college. So many men under she says

1 (22m 9s):
I I just feel really weird because I am round and raised in Hong Kong at Goats a local school, but then I have to be surrounded by all the mainlanders.

3 (22m 19s):
Does it bother you to be surrounded by mainlanders?

1 (22m 21s):
Yes, actually quite but then you know, we have a hundred and fifty new immigrants from China to Hong Kong every day,

3 (22m 29s):
okay, I just going to pause the tape right there for a second the total by the way is over a million mainlanders since 1997 roughly 45,000 a year, but something's it because I don't know how you're feeling about Jennifer but this was a point we came to in a few interviews with these 22 year olds when you've got them onto the subject of mainlanders get ready for a wave of totally bigoted opinions,

1 (22m 51s):
so Especially I live in new territories. So all the people surrounding you here Mandarin and then you start to see those less educated people they squatting next to it streets. I did witness mainland's lady having her children P at the road and I always hear Mainland people yelling shouting out for nothing in the mall and I always say jump into the line everything did bother me a lot. Not

3 (23m 22s):
sliding. What do you mean squatting?

1 (23m 24s):
I don't know what they just take a squat on the roadside waiting

3 (23m 26s):
people. They just sit and squat and wait

1 (23m 30s):
for nothing because what for an hour

3 (23m 34s):
people in Hong Kong don't do

1 (23m 35s):
that. We don't cuz who was what are the road why you can't you stand or why you can't just sit in my comfortable. It just doesn't look good. It doesn't look good. It doesn't look civilized.

3 (23m 56s):
so for all the arm that Jennifer in the curse generation feel about the future the parents are often not as alarmed about China taking more control of Hong Kong and about what the islands going to be like in 2047 activities parents the hater going out to protest every weekend

1 (24m 13s):
amazing my parents they like to really have some very

3 (24m 17s):
serious fight and they think we'll just let China gonna take over Hong Kong. It'll be fine. I think about Harrah's some of the older generation just don't believe

1 (24m 28s):
or they are not brave enough to open up their eyes and see what is actually going to happen. They just feel like they did not do anything wrong as long as you did not do anything wrong. Then you'll be fine.

3 (24m 40s):
It's going about this for Tiffany is that she feels like she's being the responsible one fighting for everybody's future and they're telling her not to protest. She was like maybe if her parents had done this Years ago things wouldn't be so bad today.

1 (24m 53s):
Like I'm 22 years old and in the past when I was younger, they have never stood up like us or fight letters to us or what they are promised in 1987.

3 (25m 5s):
It's funny when you talk about it, you're mad at your parents about it.

1 (25m 9s):
I just feel like I mean, I don't understand why they would not want this right or why they don't think that something bad is going to happen in the next 50

3 (25m 19s):
years. So Tiffany and Jennifer and so many others they've kind of given over their lives to protesting they work during the week protest on the weekends. He said they don't know much time in their lives for much else, but what's interesting is they don't think it's going to work. Most of our interviewees told us that they don't think China is going to give in again. Here's Jennifer.

1 (25m 49s):
I am pretty much pessimistic. Actually. I do wish that one day. We also seed we want a democratic Hong Kong, but now I just don't see a way out like it's been three months with been trying each and every step with broke into the legislative Council. We have more than a thousand people got arrested, but the Is still trying to ignore all of this

3 (26m 17s):
if you feel so

2 (26m 18s):
pessimistic about like the results, like why why still go like, why are you still going out every weekend

1 (26m 25s):
at least the government see that? We are not that how do we say we are not that obedience. So we have to continuously tell the government that we are not satisfied with what they are giving so we have to do

3 (26m 44s):
it again. Here's Alice.

1 (26m 47s):
I think even if we have to lose we need to leave our true thoughts in history will we need to let the people behind as know that with tried?

3 (27m 2s):
20:47 is coming and this is a very Grand thing to say but so many of these cursed generation kids feel like they have a special destiny. Alex preferred to speak to us through an interpreter. She's a Frontline protester build barricades. It's been arrested humming. One dodo how much y'all got that haven't gone case the Doha go

2 (27m 25s):
ho I think we're actually lucky because we grew up with people who thought the same way and we realize that when we turned

3 (27m 34s):
50, it's the end of our freedoms.

2 (27m 37s):
I'm 22 now, and I imagine that when I'm 25 that's already halfway.

3 (27m 42s):
Can't leave until the bomb explodes.

2 (27m 45s):
And so if we don't do anything but a time, we're 50 years old. It would be awful. I don't want our children to have the same battle. And then when we're 50 will look back and think that we didn't do enough. Our birthday is like a countdown to the end and so more so than other people. I feel like my generation we have a duty to do more. Let's see Olio seeming hammer.

3 (28m 12s):
Again, here's Jennifer

1 (28m 14s):
if we were born earlier, probably I will become my dad and mom and if I were born later, I will probably become those little kids became a during better than Cantonese. So I am happy that I am born in 1997. We are in the middle. We have the chance to know what is freedom and we are experiencing that our freedom is being taken away. And that's why

2 (28m 38s):
we are the group who step up first to fight for it. I think we're getting off here. I think we're getting off after an hour bus ride. We get to the protest Zack to the fight.

3 (28m 56s):
Once you're off the bus Jennifer Ducks into a public restroom and comes out in black shirt black pants

2 (29m 0s):
black mask over your face hair pulled back in a ponytail and we had onto a street where we're surrounded by hundreds of people dressed exactly like her a big shopping district. The store is closed and no cars. All the side streets have been blocked off at barricades by the protesters. Scaffolding and fencing trash cans and orange construction cones piled in the street. They do an efficient job. We meet up with Jennifer's Friends by a big Victoria's Secret store my friends. Thank you. Nice to meet you. I recommend. Yes, very nice to meet you always kiss in front of me, but for the record I'm with the mile after noon. No kissing it all. The city is giving permission for fewer protest these days and this is an

3 (29m 41s):
unsanctioned demonstration. We're at

2 (29m 43s):
which means that everybody here is breaking. The law anyone is subject to arrest which affects crowd size maximum penalty is five years ten years have been convicted of

3 (29m 52s):
rioting is why are the protesters are so scared of getting arrested all the time,

2 (29m 58s):
but despite that the beginning of the protest has the feeling of a Bach Party People strolling chatting you see if you parents and kids some non

3 (30m 5s):
protesters cut through the crowd running

2 (30m 7s):
errands. But now into all this I look around and realize no families. No kids. It's not feeling like a block party at all. People are standing on top of fences trying to see what's ahead of us starting to put on gas masks describe what you're seeing the processors in the Thomas treat moving back worse. So we assume that there are Riot police on the other end of the road. So 90 G there is tear gas fired over there is like two or three blocks away. We walk towards the police and the tear gas past teams of protesters who are knocking breaks out of the sidewalk with long steel tools, and the idea is what to put on the road.

2 (30m 55s):
So later on the road police cannot run that fast also people throw bricks at please. You might straight to the front lines where hundreds of protesters are massed on a side street the police who just half a block away, but we can't really see them through the crowd and then a whole wave of tear gas canisters arcs towards us. It's us lots of people that's included are back aways half block away Jennifer Conway ministers saving solution in the stranger's eyes. The controls are my recorder got knocked around running through the smoke. So I do not have a decent recording of that. This is the role that she's assigned herself in the As first aid helping anybody who requires it. She even brought energy can be specifically to give out to people whose energy is flagging after being driven back Jennifer and her two friends and I wait for the smoke to clear.

2 (31m 45s):
So this happens at every protest. Yes, basically So what do we do now? We tidy up ourselves and go again. And when you get to the police, what you going to do, we're gonna stand in front of them if have transfer going to fight them back or it's always to make them to retrieve the front line after a couple minutes. We head back toward the front line. Okay, we're walking forward to its corner where it's this and then we wait around water cannon goes off blasting water that is dyed blue laced with stuff that stings your skin.

2 (32m 26s):
What? Gasps we pull back a little then. We move forward wait again. This is both on suspenseful and boring. Sometimes it's not wait. There's not always a purpose. Sometimes we setting out the bag is just at a support. We just added support to those at the front. Support like something happens. You'll do first aid something like this. But also they know that there were many people behind them. It is important to give them some mental support as well. Yeah so many protesters like Jennifer if I get their job to support the people at the front here are the hardcore ones who push back against police and throw Molotov cocktails and Chase police with sticks and metal rods and tear stuff down to build barriers to slow the police wearing full gear helmet some goggles.

2 (33m 17s):
Gas masks and gloves. Finally the front liners yelled that they want room to retreat and so we need to retreat and so we fought way back a couple bucks. So now we just standing here. Yeah. Sure. We always support our assistant is like a support to those in the front line, but I don't understand. How do I go to the police want us out of there? They push they fire tear gas. They spray Blue Water and everybody we move back. And then we stand here and what's our goal? This has been a very frequently Asked question nowadays. We're just trying to stand on our own ground not to be disbursed.

2 (34m 1s):
That easily. That's it. Just goes to just stay out as long as you can and then eventually the police will push off the street. So in other words, it's exactly like the entire protest movement waiting to 2047. Just try to slow them down as much as you can. Yes in the end China will win but for as long as you can you'll just stand here in the street. It is pretty sad to say so but yes, that's pretty much accurate. Yes, it does. What are they yelling to ask people to start moving? There we headed to a massive Retreat as the police Advanced towards us.

2 (34m 44s):
And for the first time there seems to be actual real fear. We're running down the streets and side roads. We get separated from Jennifer's friends and from Emanuel dodging the police finally taking refuge in a church. There's a passes like this around Hong Kong protesters duck into the takes over an hour. Finally. The coast is clear Jennifer calls a friend to pick her up their volunteer drivers for the protesters. Part of the infrastructure. They've created Jennifer changes out of her black T-shirt and disability and clothes no makeup. She's too tired. She says no need of she's getting picked up high jet on a menu for me as well. Thank you coming up.

2 (35m 30s):
We have some people in Hong Kong who welcome China's take over the city with open arms

3 (35m 35s):
and I wanted them came to feel that way. That's a minute Chicago public radio when our program continues Support for This American Life comes from Progressive saving money on your car insurance is easy with Progressive. It's an average savings of over 750 dollars for customers who switch and Save in fact customers can qualify for an average of six discounts on their auto policy with Progressive discounts just for starting a quote online or having multiple vehicles on their policy get your quote online at progressive.com and see how much you could be saving National annual average auto insurance savings. Things by new customers surveyed in 2019 potential savings will vary discounts vary and are not available in all states and situations.

3 (36m 21s):
This American Life for my Rebel ass today, we are returning to a program that we first broadcast this past fall about the protests in Hong Kong. I travel to Hong Kong with my co-workers Diane woo and Emmanuel bury under the new national security guard that China put into effect a couple weeks ago in Hong Kong many of the things that these protesters said to us back then that you are hearing this our could theoretically be prosecuted. We have changed nearly everybody's name. We will end the show today with an interview that I did this month about that law with Jennifer who you heard in the first half of the show. So for now we have arrived at three of our program at three good cop bad cop. So as an American visiting Hong Kong for the first time one of the things that kind of killed me was hearing that before the last few years of protests people were really into the police.

3 (37m 4s):
Like they were trusted they were respected and it was only the last few years, especially the last few months of protests that changed all that at a rally. I actually saw people chanting at a row of cops that they hoped that they and their families would die. And feelings about who decide with the police of the protesters have gotten so intense. It's tearing families apart on the telegram app. There's a whole channel for protesters who get kicked out by their parents and need a place to live Alan you grew up in Hong Kong. He knows a family that is very far apart on this. The sun is a protester. The dad is a retired police officer and now and had them sit down and do what nobody in Hong Kong is doing talk to each other.

3 (37m 46s):
There's really no dialogue between police and There is anywhere in Hong Kong as far as we could tell and can I say listening to the story today? Nine months after we first broadcast it after weeks of protests against police violence across the United States. I really do wonder how common this kind of experience is in our country. Anyway, here's Allen. I've known this family since I was six I knew them because of my friend Jonathan. I wrote the school bus with him every day. His father. Peter was the first policeman I knew in Rio. All life I was excited to talk to him because you never hear what the police think about. The protests police here are not really allowed to talk to the Press Peter's retired, but still very connected to the force.

3 (38m 34s):
So before the family all sat down together, I asked Peter to get together with me and my producer Emmanuel. I hadn't seen him since I was 12 back. Then people called me you can which means fish bowl.

2 (38m 48s):
Just a

3 (38m 48s):
Cantonese for first sounds like my surname you and because I was fat I won't recognize you on the street album. I

2 (38m 56s):
will okay serious. I'm serious. Okay. All right, I guess as a compliment. Thank you. He's very

3 (39m 2s):
cute. Yeah, how used to be refreshed as a kid. I liked Peter he take time off work to stop by during recess and bios chips and other snacks. My friend. Jonathan would have his birthday parties at the police station, which we loved. The big barbecues other policemen around Peter was the cool dad

2 (39m 25s):
people in Hong Kong

3 (39m 26s):
trusted even reviewed the police back. Then one of the most popular TV shows was a cop show Paul turns Eden where the police were Heroes

2 (39m 38s):
Peter's hair is gray.

3 (39m 39s):
Now, he's tall athletic. He plays tennis by my nickname in tennis. I don't know why my nickname in tennis is Federer. Yeah, better feather feather Roger. I don't know why maybe my skill. I don't know. I don't know why he still likes his bad jokes. I cannot imagine Peter ever doing what I've been seeing in these videos beating up unarmed protesters kicking people on the ground. I thought surely he would object to some of those things and that his views would be complicated from what you've seen, you know in recent months has there been anything that the police have found that you think you would disagree with?

3 (40m 23s):
Nothing is perfect. but as a whole in general I think the police are doing doing a pretty good job. If it is in other police force in other countries, you know, just look at the casualties. Look look just look at the column of fatal, you know numbers

1 (40m 47s):
it will it won't be

3 (40m 48s):
zero. I asked him about different situations. The police have been criticized for I even show him videos of police brutally arresting people things. I think are clearly wrong, but he always seems to have a justification for the way police behave. He says you're judging the police based on what you see in these clips. That's not fair. You don't know what the officer was facing the social media only show the part that police hitting people but one minute ago, They've be attack by loss of people. So one minute later he react to to the to the Mob, you know attacking them.

3 (41m 29s):
So what you can see is one minute after but you did not see the full picture. He's not conflicted about police and he isn't very sympathetic to protesters. He thinks the process of destroying Hong Kong the extradition bill is okay. He doesn't think China will end free speech in Hong Kong and has this fear of China is way overblown and naive Hong Kong these part of China. Come on. Wake up people wake up. This is the fact whether China is good or bad Hong Kong is part of China. If you don't like it, those people waving the United States flag waving the Union Jack Flag, if anyone takes you you can go to it either and go to England.

3 (42m 16s):
Yeah, you can go to, Florida. Go to California. Yeah, go go if Trump takes you years ago. I'd already been worried how this family conversation was going to go hearing what Peter believed did not help Peter told me he understands that Jonathan goes to protest but doesn't ask him about it because he doesn't want any details. Jonathan said he does not ask his dad what he thinks of the way police beat and tear gas protesters for the same reason. He just like

2 (42m 49s):
If he says

3 (42m 50s):
something. V it is something that's like completely doesn't make sense to me it sort of brings him down it like as a person

2 (43m 5s):
it just like I would feel like he's just yeah, not not who I thought he was. And I'd like scares you to like I think that could be true. So this family

3 (43m 23s):
does not talk about the protest at all tennis. Yes soccer. Yes pets great, but no politics till tonight. They've agreed it's a half the conversation. They've been avoiding after

2 (43m 40s):
dinner. Jonathan's mom album washes the dishes I recognize the song right

3 (43m 49s):
away. I'm surprised she's humming it in front of Peter. It's the protesters new Anthem glory to Hong Kong. Alpha is on Jonathan sighs. She works with lawyers including some in the pro-democracy camp. I asked if Peter knows what that song is. She says maybe you can go

2 (44m 10s):
wrong.

3 (44m 12s):
That's kind of how it's been going between her and her husband no real discussion, but the occasional passive-aggressive comments while they're watching the news or some passive-aggressive humming during dishes. This is another reason Jonathan avoid bringing up the protests. He doesn't want to start a fight between his parents.

2 (44m 33s):
What were the worst scenario be like

3 (44m 41s):
Someone moving out I guess. Yeah, because they can't stand it anymore. Yeah, I guess living apart would be the worst case scenario I believe. because that like sort of unofficially means that you no longer to get itself. Yeah, that could be his mom or his bad or him. We all sit at the dinner table. I don't know why they agree to talk about this maybe just because I've known them for so long and I asked or I hope maybe part of them wanted to talk and I was just a good excuse Peter's facing me and Jonathan and Alpha are next to me.

3 (45m 28s):
Jonathan has their dog Loki named after the Marvel character on his lap same point of the conversation starts. All of them saying in different ways it's fine that we don't talk about this. We all have mutual respect you months of mutual respect there until you leave

2 (45m 45s):
or instead of talking to each

3 (45m 46s):
other or looking at each other. They're talking to me or looking at the dog. It feels all very careful proper and calm this continues for half an hour then everything changes when Peter uses the word compromise compromise Paul. Heat High compromise. It's basically the government line. That's what Hong Kong's chief executive. Carrie Lam says that the protesters should stop protesting in after that. The two sides can talk Alpha and Jonathan here that as meaning the protesters should back down. They both lay into Peter.

3 (46m 27s):
Okay, they want to see right here. I mom.

2 (46m 35s):
Tomorrow your uncle Charlie control and prevention though it down officers.

3 (46m 40s):
The police are the ones who need to change. They have to calm the situation Peter says the police are doing their job. I don't know why when the police arrest people for fighting on breaking stuff is treated as weird. It's illegal. So arrest them. No problem. Jonathan says, okay. Yes arrest them. How much force does the police need to use sometimes a person just ask the police a question and they still get arrested or beaten? Oh people who are already on the ground kneeling subdued they still get beaten Peter doesn't respond then they argue openly argue for the first time about one of the protesters main demands something the government refused to budge on to start an independent investigation into police.

3 (47m 34s):
Savior comes a giant footprint on guys -

2 (47m 38s):
Peter keeps repeating the same thing

3 (47m 40s):
over and over like he's been backed into a corner that there's no need for an independent investigation now is not the right time. I see how the city already has a system in place to investigate complaints about the police. Tell me what you do gone George gum. I see how they talk a little longer, but it doesn't go anywhere. Alva tells me later. She had other things she could have brought up but decided against it. She didn't want her husband's a few trapped the word. She used was Seco which translates as that corner no place to go.

3 (48m 22s):
Preserving the family was more important to her than trying to win an argument. Later, Jonathan told me he still loves his dad, but he's given up hope that his father could be a reasonable human being at least when it comes to the police.

2 (48m 39s):
When I started this. I was kind of naive.

3 (48m 42s):
I thought maybe Jonathan and his mother and father people who actually want to understand each other could talk about this in a productive manner. And that if they could maybe there was hope that the rest of us

2 (48m 55s):
could

3 (48m 57s):
but now I don't have a lot of

2 (48m 59s):
Hope. And I knew he's normally reported for WHYY show the pulse Jonathan his brother Chris and Alpha are now thinking seriously about leaving Hong Kong's Peterson

3 (49m 18s):
act for a slow boat to China. So what about all the people living in Hong Kong who have no problem with China who like China there's a lot of them and they hold their own demonstrations. Which are pretty small like parties. We're flash mob show up at malls and wave Chinese flags and seeing the Chinese National Anthem and the Big Data celebrate China normally would be October First National Day the anniversary of the Communist Party founding the modern Chinese State and this year is going to be a big one. It was the 70th anniversary and the people who support mainland China were kind of resentful because this day was supposed to be the huge holiday for them but anticipating massive protests the city shut.

3 (50m 1s):
Down fireworks are cancelled trains weren't running almost all the malls. We're going to be closed to protesters had ruined the day again. So in Defiance the pro-china people organized an Anthem singing party for the morning of the first our co-worker Diane woo went

1 (50m 19s):
and party took place at 8:30 in the morning on a

2 (50m 21s):
boat. Not just any boat on the Star Ferry this iconic Hong Kong commuter / sightseeing boat on the Harbor the fairies are these beautiful old From Colonial times with

3 (50m 32s):
names like Silver Star Northern Star

2 (50m 35s):
twinkling star. And today one of them is going to get completely covered with bright red Chinese flags a couple dozen people are gathering at the ferry terminal. They're mostly strangers know each other Loosely from previous flash mobs and get-togethers, always. Oh God. I love China. They shop there's your drinks up support the police. Oh, yeah, kind of funny when you think about it all these people up so early on their day off getting on a boat to sing the national anthem together. It's also a little dark because there's a real threat of violence against people who don't support the protest one of these flag parties two weeks ago at a mall devolved into a brawl when protesters showed up people on both sides got beat up.

2 (51m 22s):
And so going out on a ferry to shout pro-china slogans is strategic. Once you're on the boat out at Sea. You ought to be safe from a counter protest as one guy put it. Well, we've been living in Terror for the last three months because the people on the other side the rioters there the really good at the terrorizing tactics. They make you feel that you should be afraid of speaking up and speaking out against them because they're so organized and then terminal everyone gathers in a semi-circle. Holding special holiday issues of the China Daily and singing the Chinese National Anthem together.

2 (52m 4s):
It's a little shaky the guy leading. It told me he just learned the words a couple weeks ago. Most of the people here best as I can tell are not mainlanders who grew up with

3 (52m 14s):
the anthem ones. I talked to were all from Hong Kong

2 (52m 18s):
being this into China is new for them something that only happened when the The protest got bad enough that they found

3 (52m 24s):
themselves rallying around this new flag,

1 (52m 27s):
and it's not always comfortable.

2 (52m 29s):
I'm getting on the boat with Daniel. The guy who is griping about being terrorized when someone puts a heart cheap sticker on him. It's got a tiny Spike sticker Stuck on You Yes. I feel a little quinzhee about this why I'm not exactly that red compared to a lot of people here are not the most read person read in the crayon box of the Hong Kong protests refers to being China vs. Blue for the government and yellow for the protesters Danielle almost didn't come this morning. Actually. It's not really his scene. He's he's being this patriotic about China is kind of dorky moreover. I always told my friends I would never want to live in China because there's a lot of things in China that you know, I can't accept if I were to before you look in China the two things he can't accept that we end up talking about

3 (53m 19s):
are the lack of free speech

2 (53m 20s):
and censored access to the Annette, but the truth is I live in Hong Kong and I get to retain my almost uncheck freedom for 20 more years and in such a sweetheart deal for Hong Kong people pointed out to him that after 28 years. It's very possible. Those freedoms would disappear and he had the same response that I heard from other people who don't like the protests.

1 (53m 40s):
He was like, well

2 (53m 41s):
sure maybe well, I guess you're talking me to appreciate the young people's perspectives, but but in exchange for the freedom that they fight for their Rican Of it and they're destroying Law and Order and the balance is not worth it to you. If I were to choose between this if trying to say in order to have Law and Order, I will need to sacrifice your freedom of same way trans people have in Hong Kong. I would accept that balance. This is unacceptable the whole an organized chaos Revolution and the habitat they brought in Hong Kong is completely unacceptable. I will give up the freedom the way they do in China to stop this.

1 (54m 29s):
It's a big jump from I could never live in China to I would sacrifice my freedom just to get this to stop but the intensity of the protests and his frustration with

2 (54m 38s):
what he's experiencing in the

1 (54m 40s):
city have driven him to at least try on this extreme idea.

2 (54m 44s):
Daniel's 40 marks in finance. He lived in the US for 12 years. He's a football fan roots for the Chicago Bears because he likes the tenacious defense. He says he wasn't politically involved before all this went to one of the big peaceful protest last spring mordo watch than to participate. But that changed one day when he was watching a live stream of the young protesters storming the legislative Council. He was surprised how ferocious they seemed. So even the police officers looked a little scared. That's at that moment. I suddenly realized oh, we're actually very close to a revolution. They couldn't happen. It just never occurred to me that Hong Kong would go through that. It's both Stun and anxiety about unknown anxiety, you know things things can change abruptly if the recent Revolution is going to force the hand of the Chinese government to crack down on it violently and that anything can happen.

2 (55m 42s):
Like I could lose all the privilege. I have as Hong Kong citizen protection of common law freedom of speech but also freedom of speech protected by common law nobody in China. Enjoy these freedom Yeah, but if it gets to a if it gets to a certain point we can lose all of these privileges which I treasure. He woke up the next morning to see that the

3 (56m 5s):
coverage was wall-to-wall about police brutality

1 (56m 9s):
to Daniel. It seemed like everyone

3 (56m 10s):
was leaving out the fact that the protesters had started it which seemed deeply unjust to the police

2 (56m 16s):
and that's when I started turning blue when I when I felt that the police were asked me unfairly. I took my Sai I chose to be on the police side other people cited against the protest for different reasons a big one. I heard was the disruption they caused a security Guard told me he had to transfer four

3 (56m 35s):
times to get home one night because of Subway shutdowns women trying to get cash out of an ATM that had been destroyed by protesters

2 (56m 42s):
said if you're mad at the government take it out on the government. You're only hurting people

3 (56m 47s):
like me

2 (56m 48s):
a man said to me sadly Hong Kong is our home. Why are they destroying it? The crowd on the boat finishes belting out the national anthem a second time when suddenly everyone rushes to the railing everyone's waving at the city police. Well ran to one side of the boat. It's because I can make it over everyone came together on one side in a position. That's a little precarious. That's kind of like Daniels world right now. He felt pushed to choose a team like it or not. These are his new people. He doesn't think like them exactly but he feels more aligned with these Chinese nationalists on this boat waving at the police then with the angry protesters gang up on them,

3 (57m 36s):
even if those protesters ultimately And the same thing he does to preserve their freedoms in Hong Kong

2 (57m 47s):
sitting on the upper deck of the Star Ferry. This was actually the first time Daniel had ever sang the national anthem in public. He told me later as he sang. He was surprised to find that he felt something. Diane whoo.

3 (58m 9s):
She talked to Daniel last week with the passing of the National Security while he blames the protesters for killing the Hong Kong that he cherished possess. He accepted as the only viable future one of the first things by the way that he did when he found out about the law passing was changed his Facebook profile back to his real name now, he feels protected from the mob.

2 (58m 37s):
That

3 (58m 37s):
five nine months later. So as we said China's new National Security Law for Hong Kong went into effect this month or if you wanna get technical about it one hour before the month began and two days into the month. I reach Jennifer the protester that you heard in the first half of the show. She told me that since we recorded her in the fall, but as I've gotten a lot smaller nothing like what we witness back then and she has kept protesting. She said but less often maybe once a month or so. She told me that she had thought that China might crack down some day like this like it did with the new wall just didn't expect it. So soon. She thought they had years for any expression of dissent could be punished like a camera right now.

1 (59m 19s):
The first thing that came to my mind what oh my God, this is finally come. the end to be honest, it's out so it felt so hopeless and like he could not do anything to stop this from happening anymore.

3 (59m 41s):
Yeah, have you noticed changes in the city already like at restaurants and signs and posters and things like that.

1 (59m 50s):
So I am on my way. I just got off the bus and I am walking on my way going back home. Now what I'm being on my way back to home life everywhere is hanging with Chinese China and also home Hong flag with banners and posters around saying supporting National Security Law. So that's what I've seen physically changing

3 (1h 0m 14s):
and the Chinese flag. Was it there three days ago.

1 (1h 0m 17s):
I didn't see it yesterday was not very yesterday. And then now we have a lot like they're trying to support the government's decision.

3 (1h 0m 35s):
And how's that make you feel?

1 (1h 0m 37s):
only just really like we cannot say anything basic government anymore the side that as like fighting against the government has to disappear and then there will be only one opinion and one kind of thinking in this city in the future. So it is kind of sad actually,

3 (1h 0m 60s):
will you still go to protest?

1 (1h 1m 3s):
I think it really depends on what kind of the Prototype is for and how the security law will be implemented and used in the future. If it was still technique a period of time to observe how it is being actually like taking me to action. I don't want to say I don't want to give up at this moment yet. I still hope that there will be a chance to change something that there's for me. The law has passed like for a day only and there are still many unknowns variation.

1 (1h 1m 46s):
So deep down in my mind. I still wish to go out to protest to drops the chance to change something but to be honest, I don't really have any idea if I could. Free like to go out in the future. How scared are you? Yeah. Yeah, I am very scared right now because you know, they are saying that for important case they could actually skip Hong Kong's Court like we could be directly sent to England for their due to True, right?

3 (1h 2m 23s):
Other other parts of the law that worry you a

1 (1h 2m 26s):
lot. Oh, there's one there's one. That's a Hong Kong resident. Even I am in other country if I have said anything that could possibly divide. I don't know if it is called dividing the country like saying something anti-government or anticommunist. I could still be illegal. Yeah, there's something very abstract to me. I already know how how is being defined everywhere is blind and I don't know if I will cross the line even without being noticing.

1 (1h 3m 6s):
So that is something really like I am afraid of as

3 (1h 3m 11s):
well. Did you feel like the pro-democracy movement will come to an end very

1 (1h 3m 17s):
soon. I think it will be. I think it will be like a just like a repeat of History like the 4th of June

3 (1h 3m 31s):
like fourth of June is tenement Square.

1 (1h 3m 34s):
Yeah, like people fought very hard and then we had the Chinese government's oppressing people using military force and then like how many years 30 like so many years later you see there are so many people supporting the government like supporting the Chinese got from Minority and I think this history will be repeating Hong Kong as well like soon after our next Generation. Maybe we'll become those people supporting the government like we are mocking right now that will probably say oh so support Chinese government support commonness.

1 (1h 4m 16s):
They made our life good. I want to leave Hong Kong's if that day comes I wish I could leave Hong Kong.

3 (1h 4m 25s):
Yeah, do you think there's a chance you could?

1 (1h 4m 29s):
I would try to but I don't know how hard it will be. Like, you know, I need to check if I am eligible. So that is really a known for me right now, but I will be exploring the chance to do so

3 (1h 4m 44s):
you have lots of friends who are leaving or trying to leave.

1 (1h 4m 47s):
Yeah, I do like my clothes co-workers. They are all like planning migration to Australia some planning. Go to London, and then some of my friends have decided to go to Canada already really quite a lot of people around me are leaving. Wow. Yeah, like everyone finding a way out of here. Do you have any feeling of

3 (1h 5m 17s):
relief? Like this has been going on for so long with no end in sight. But if this law kicks in in the way that you're saying, you know, now you're at a point where you could say, okay, we've done everything we can do. It's impossible to do anything else. We know we're not going to make progress and we have to stop do you feel any relief from that?

1 (1h 5m 44s):
No, it won't be it can't be a relief because we are being suppressed so that we cannot speak so that that cannot be a relief that is something but it's more a suppression like even straight towards depression. So that can't be a relief.

3 (1h 6m 5s):
I'm asking that question because Emmanuel talk to somebody in Hong Kong and that's what they said. They said. Okay. Well if this is how it's going to end well at least It's a relief that it's over, you know,

1 (1h 6m 17s):
yeah, like I do think that there are people thinking in this way like that that is kind of what we call it like cooking a frock in the pot with warm water. I don't know how this that been described in English.

3 (1h 6m 33s):
And now we have that same thing in English. Yeah. We're the water gets warmer and really / yeah and then and then the Frog never really realize it's like, oh I should get out of the pot. And then I've also read like maybe that's not even true. Maybe prolongs do jump out of the pot. But yeah,

1 (1h 6m 52s):
but then but then I do think there's some people are thinking this way like they were saying at least we've tried something like that, but before me myself that can't be a relief like if the movement ends That is something that we warn our next Generation to remember. This has actually happened in Hong Kong. So that can't be a relief. I will never feel relive.

3 (1h 7m 23s):
Did you know in the far we talked about how it felt like there's this this is clock and this sort of 50 year countdown to Hong Kong losing its autonomy. Do you think by protesting? You made this change happen faster than it would have happened. To

1 (1h 7m 46s):
be honest, I like I think it's like maybe the majority was saying the way that I am thinking is that our Rebellion would like make the Chinese government not to do anything because of the international like see use international opinion international support. We thought that the movement was slow down the come down. None of us have expected that it will like fasten it up.

3 (1h 8m 15s):
You started the movement to slow the countdown and you didn't think it would make it go faster. Yeah.

1 (1h 8m 19s):
Yeah, like it was supposed to happen on the 50 years like the 50th year then maybe with the Chinese councilman ambition. It was going to happen in the 40th year, but then now it's like even earlier. So that is totally out of expectation.

3 (1h 8m 43s):
and much worse

1 (1h 8m 46s):
Yeah. Do you regret protesting

3 (1h 8m 51s):
seeing that?

1 (1h 8m 54s):
No, really. I'm not regret for doing it like because we all knew that we were only buying for that tiny chance and even if we failed at least we tried. So it is really so sad, like like we could not get what we wanted. The situation is even worst worse than the time that we started the whole movement. But then everything we've been doing is now I can't say it is wasted because this one are have changed many people like in a good way or in a bad way. So I won't say it is wasted the political scope in Hong Kong is totally changed how people sees each other and then the society changed a lot so it's still worth it.

1 (1h 9m 49s):
And we have made a declaration to the world that we don't want the Chinese government to come that is the statement that we are making even though we failed even though we are being controlled by the government. We still don't want to like let other feels like we want it. We enjoy it. No, we don't we fought against it just that we failed. So the world knows that we don't want it. Jennifer in Hong

3 (1h 10m 20s):
Kong. I'm going to end our program today with a recording of the last protest that any of us attended with Jennifer. This was back in October in a soccer stadium where she sang along with the protest Anthem glory to Hong Kong this week. The song was banned from

2 (1h 10m 35s):
schools. Is one of the movements most popular slogans

3 (1h 10m 53s):
liberate Hong Kong

2 (1h 10m 54s):
revolution of our times last week chanting the slogan was declared illegal and the new while by the Hong Kong government. Because I told you I'll be your friend took an oath that I'm stick it out till the end. Now that it's raining know that we still have each other. You can stand on the market. You can stand under my epidermis produced a bimanual variant.

2 (1h 11m 38s):
I am Will I brilliant field

3 (1h 11m 40s):
producer in Hong Kong was the any Chan thanks to our interpreters for Chong Diana Chan and Dominic Yang

2 (1h 11m 46s):
people who put together a show today includes on the baker Susan Burton

3 (1h 11m 49s):
Zoe chased and Shiva shankara Damien grave

2 (1h 11m 52s):
Michelle Harris Jessica Lawson, hop nickim Equanimity Stone Nelson, Catherine. Raimondo. Been

3 (1h 11m 57s):
feeling naughty Raymond Robinson him go Sullivan crystals for table and not tyranny additional production by nor Gill and Aviva to kornfeld our executive producer is David kestenbaum special. Thanks today to Dave Hill for the cover of the theme of the cop show. So armed reaction and special thanks to a real chore Karen Chong Howard Wang Noble Wang you so so I pay a lot of thede giant fan and Martin

2 (1h 12m 17s):
Lee our website This American Life dot-org This American Life is delivered public radio stations by PRX the

3 (1h 12m 24s):
public radio exchange sport Through This American Life comes from Life way Foods sport for your microbiome and your immune system could come from the probiotics and LifeWay keeper. Learn how to love your guts by

2 (1h 12m 35s):
visiting Lifeway

3 (1h 12m 36s):
Foods.com and from Hey, Dad.

2 (1h 12m 39s):
Cam is a new take on

3 (1h 12m 40s):
email allow you to screen emails just like you can screen calls

2 (1h 12m 44s):
you somebody the thumbs up there allowed in thumbs down. You never hear from them again. Try it for free @ H ey.com. Like there's always problems co-founder mystery. Now it to you, you know, I'll never forget his first time on a carousel

3 (1h 12m 58s):
way. He tells the story gets in a horse and starts to go around

2 (1h 13m 3s):
that moment. I suddenly realized oh, we're actually very close to the revolution that could happen.

3 (1h 13m 9s):
I'm Ira Glass back next week with more stories at This American Life. Nice weekend podcast This American Life Sandy moves out of the city running a life away from other people the guide for the new life is Runkle Bob's life. He was in and out of Institutions diagnosed with schizophrenia the finally deciding to live in isolation and the desert we thrived so Sandy tries it the upside to being alone and apart next week on the podcast on your local public radio station.