1 (1s):
Support for This American Life comes from Capital One Capital one's banking app lets you manage your money anytime anywhere Capital One. This is banking reimagined. What's in your wallet Capital One and a A quick warning. There are curse words that are unbeaten today's episode of the show. If you prefer a beeped version, you can find that at our website This American Life dot-org. This American Life, I'm bin Marwan me in for Ira Glass this week. So back in early April when we were still only a few weeks into lockdown in New York a friend of mine asked me what things were like on planet Bim. It was a joke, but it was one of those accurate jokes because living alone right now is probably not that dissimilar to being a Faraway solitary planet.

1 (50s):
New York was one of the first places to lock down and in a way, I'm still living like it's March. I work from home I leave for groceries. I attend almost no social functions. And it's not that I don't know how to be alone being alone. Even in a crowd is not new to me remove continents when I was very young living between the UK and Nigeria. I went off to boarding school when I was 10 years old. I left home for University when I was 19, and I never really moved back home again. I've lived in London Lagos Berlin and now New York I chose to live in those laws do places to move far away from family and home. But there's something different about the alone as of right now covid-19 has taken away that element of choice like a nine-year-old being sent up to her room as punishment versus sitting in her room quietly reading.

1 (1m 43s):
Anyway, the activities are the same but the issue is control so many of us have been dealing with this and forced aloneness a lot more since the pandemic began. Sometimes I feel like I'm floating through space a sort of dwarf planets. In a galaxy that seems to be populated by planets with people attached children a partner other family members, maybe even housemates or a pet. I have none of those things at the moment my family my parents my siblings their Partners. They're all in London about three and a half thousand miles and a full ocean away and basically a caricature of the Elder Millennial.

1 (2m 25s):
It's just me and an Ever growing collection of house plants and candles And as I kept thinking about space and about distance, I realized oh, I'm not a planet. I'm an astronaut. It feels like no one is psychically it's not physically further away from their loved ones and an astronaut in orbit. So I found an astronaut just to compare notes with Leroy chiao. He's retired now from NASA, but altogether he spent more than seven and a half months in space. Can I ask a child question now? Can you be bored in space? Like is it is it is it different to Earth boredom?

1 (3m 6s):
You know, I think you could you won't put it this way. We do have a lot to do even if a lot of the work is tedious work is still work that has to be done. It has to be done per the schedule and if we didn't have that it would be a lot more difficult because even though you've got this spectacular view of the earth and you're taking photographs of all these great places after a If you didn't have enough to do they'd be it'd be pretty tough, you know, so the answer is yes. I think he would say. Yes, you can absolutely get bored in space even though they keep them quite busy Leroy told me something. I hadn't known at the end of every day all the activities on the International Space Station had to be logged and every single day based on that log the plan changed before you even launched aboard a six-month space mission every minute of your your mission has been I planned out and taking into account all the requirements constraints priorities things like that.

1 (4m 3s):
And then you get up there and you start the first day with day one and you know at the end of your day, you've got a log down the computer the things that you finished things that you got a head on things you maybe got behind on and then while you sleep the entire planning team on the ground in the mission control center is replanting the entire Mission based on what happened that day and then Ripple it all the way through to the end and then you leave And up a new Flight Plan and the next morning when you get up. You've got a new flight plan on your computer because of this re planning team that has to do this every night. I love that it fell to a whole crew of people an entirely different location to plan minute-by-minute everything that a person should be doing with their hours eat breakfast and clean up between oh 6:15 and o6 45 hours a 15-minute conference with Mission Control after experiments sleep for 8 hours someone to check in.

1 (4m 57s):
In make sure you are on task. Unfortunately, unlike Leroy. I have no mission control the usual order of my day has been disrupted since March, but no commute. My desk is now only a few feet away from my bed. My sleep schedule is messed up a friend of mine said we should stop calling it working from home, but rather living at work Everything feels like it's drifting and not just in my apartment. It'd be nice. If someone seemed to have a bit of a plan globally speaking. When Leroy and I first spoke it was April and at that point, I'd been alone indoors for about six weeks. I remember it as a slightly feral time.

1 (5m 38s):
I joked that I wished. I'd thought to trap a boyfriend before the pandemic hit some kind of human space junk to occasionally bump into in my apartment, but then Leroy told me about the Perils of cohabiting in space. I talked to some of the cosmonauts who had been around for a long time and they said, you know, some Crews came back and they said You know if I had had a weapon if I had a gun I would have killed my crew mate. Maybe that's that's how bad it can get. I have no tension with my houseplants my candles burn but not with any malice. I actually really like living alone. It's not that I want to fight with anyone. I just wish I had the option sometimes, you know break glass in case of boredom Leroy's longest.

1 (6m 27s):
In space came when he lived on the International Space Station with only one other person salads and sharapov a Kyrgyzstan e Cosmonaut for a hundred and ninety two days. For context my personal Expedition is currently around a hundred and Thirty Days part of the terror of being alone right now is that this pandemic feels endless I ask Leroy when things began to feel really impossible for him was ever a time in space when the itch to be home became unbearable. I would say right around the four-month point three four months seems to be kind of the right amount of time if you ask most astronauts and that's when you're saying well, you know, this is great. This is this is interesting.

1 (7m 8s):
It's it's fulfilling but I sure wouldn't mind going home either and when you start getting eager to a home is actually after the next crew arrives you have generally about a week or week and a half together before you go home. And so the next crew arrives and you start getting really excited about going home. And that's when the time seems to slow to a crawl the last bit last week or so. That makes sense to me even in the Majesty of space for months is still four months. At four months of being alone of being so far away. It's hard. Four months is where we're at in this new reality. We're ready to come back to us, but we don't know when we'll be allowed to go home.

1 (7m 51s):
There's still no cure no vaccine and a steady increase in new cases. So what do we do today? We're going to hear from people who've had time to think about their real owners or they loneliness even when they're in a crowd how to be an astronaut or a solitary planet on there's a whole galaxy just around the corner how to be alone. That's the feeling of today. Program WB is at Chicago. It's This American Life. I'm Bill Murray one may stay with me. Act One the unbearable part when isolation and social distancing was still new I read a letter and it felt like pages from a diary.

1 (8m 40s):
I hadn't even known. I was writing it was published in the Suwanee review back in April the writer Daniel Evans alone in Baltimore seemed to synthesize the feeling of aloneness and loss and fear that I hadn't yet been able to even articulate. His Danielle reading a version of that letter who was everyone's last real human touch a friend asked that assume birthday party in late March. I said a name but once everyone hung up, I thought again not sure if I remembered correctly. I walked myself through that last real day of human contact the first week of March on the last day of awp and annual writers conference.

1 (9m 21s):
I had planned to fly to San Antonio a day and a half early. Treat a friend who had a difficult year to a pre-conference spa day, but in the days leading up to the conference fear of the virus spread thousands of people including my friend cancel their travel plans. I canceled the spa day out of prudence, but my flight was departing as scheduled and I wouldn't get reimbursed if I didn't get on it. I decided to travel anxiously, but I am anxious as a general condition. One way to live in the world when you have anxiety is to get used to pushing it aside when it gets in the way of being alive. This is my best explanation for why I trusted the city and the Airlines and the institutions who said it was still safe to travel and ignored the warnings of friends who said what was coming I thought quarantine was still an if and weeks away.

1 (10m 15s):
If so, and I thought if loneliness was coming soon. I did not want to be alone any longer than necessary. The conference was part hectic work trip part carnival on its final day tired after two days packed with events and panels. I slept in and stayed in bed for hours after I woke I finally made it as far as the hotel lobby intending to grab lunch. But instead spotted a friend at the bar. We spent a few hours day drinking having a Meandering conversation about our novels and major life decisions. They feel so settled I said believing it. The Serendipity of the afternoon that blood into the evening.

1 (10m 57s):
I spent the day moving from a crowded space to crowded space running into friends making plans for later in the night or the month or the year. Late in the evening a group of us headed to the conference's dance party, but when we all went upstairs the Dance Floor was hilariously heartbreakingly empty it already felt like a metaphor. Downstairs people began to peel off we were tired flights were early. It was starting to be unavoidably clear that we were in the before of something terrible and on the wrong side of caution. I remember who was there. I remember that some people were already conscientiously not hugging or touching but some people were there who I didn't know well enough to hug.

1 (11m 45s):
Who was the last person who leaned into me to say goodbye, who was the last person besides me to realize the party was over two days after I returned to Baltimore the campus where I teach was closed immediately and indefinitely. I prepared myself for the city to shut down for about a month. I walked a block to buy extra cat food and then a block more to stock up on canned and dried goods. And for reasons unclear to me essential oils at my tiny and mysterious neighborhood health food store.

1 (12m 28s):
I reinstated the service that mailed me a box of fresh vegetables weekly a month passed. The virus hadn't picked yet April and May passed. I kept waiting for a clear sign that the worst was over but instead felt like we were all trapped in the opening half of a horror movie. By the time the city's stay-at-home order lifted in early, June little seemed to have changed to make me feel better about being in crowds or writing the city Bust or sharing indoor space with people. It's July now and most weeks. I only go as far as my apartment buildings front entryway to collect mail and occasional groceries and bring them inside to disinfect in more exciting weeks.

1 (13m 10s):
I ventured down the fire escape to take out the recycling and walk around the block to come back in through my front door. Though for three weeks are recycling was on hold because of an outbreak of the Bureau of solid waste and I stopped making even that small trip and over three months. I have seen sticks delivery people to Neighbors in the hallway one friend making a masked front door grocery drop off one repairman one stranger who needed it or the property and my landlord. As time passes there are fewer unbearable days, but they are worst when they come. I had a running joke for years about how none of my survival skills would be useful in an apocalypse, but it turns out being anxious and alone in my apartment way in which things I love or worth the possibility that they might hurt me is the ones nereo.

1 (14m 3s):
I was somewhat prepared for At the start of the year. I had been looking forward to spending some time alone. I was on teaching Lee for the spring semester and I thought it would be a luxury to be mostly at home for a while. I love my apartment. I bought myself a smart bike and taught myself to like it anticipating a season when I would become a creature of odd habits and hours and wouldn't want to walk to the gym after dark or in the spring rain. I Was preparing to hibernate and not miss much. Now I missed so many things I take vitamin D pills and sometimes hover over the fire escape ledge standing beside the trash can to try to get some sunlight and imagine the luxury of having a backyard and miss my father who was the 40-minute train right away the train feels out of the question and I can't ask my father working full-time from home and recovering from minor surgery to drive an hour each way just to visit I never learned to drive something.

1 (15m 3s):
I sometimes considered a badge of city-dwelling honor earlier in the year. I told her relative. I didn't need to learn to drive in Baltimore. When I live a short walk from Penn Station and at least a dozen city buses stop within a block of my apartment if I had a car and a license, I think now I could drive to wave at my father from a safe distance. When the Casual relationship I drifted into early in the year just as casually evaporated. I told a friend. I guess we went to a serious about it. So it's for the best now the scolding voice in my head tells me that a person who believed in chasing after things who didn't think it was as clear as people either want to be around you or they don't and if you didn't know which there was your answer.

1 (15m 53s):
Well that person might not be alone in her apartment for months. When I turned 35 a few years ago, I promised myself. I let go of the idea that someday I was going to become a different kind of adult. I let myself except that there would be no house or husband or baby or sudden mature renunciation of glitter. It was only the baby I really grieved but I let myself have that grief and move on. I gave myself permission to live a life that wasn't waiting for my real life to start to free all of my Intimate Relationships from the emotional tyranny of a ticking biological clock to claim as a choice.

1 (16m 35s):
What would otherwise feel like it had happened to me? I thought it worked but the loneliness of isolation somedays mocks. All of that makes all of my possible Joys feel ephemeral. I asked which of the things I promised myself I could still have casual flings travel community in the form of classrooms and bookstores and coffee shops and bars will survive this or exist in recognizable form when we emerge. It is possible to feel stuck with your choices even without wishing you'd made any differently. When I hear that this could go on for a year. I think it is lack of human touch human contact that will break me and then I think it might actually be grief without the constant busy Buzz of my normal life.

1 (17m 22s):
It's harder not to dwell in what is absent the lives that might have had the life. I would have if my mother were still alive. I keep waiting for the first feeling I have that is wholly Untouched by grief, but that is at least its own fresh grief. Not marked by her death three years ago, but it hasn't come yet. When I heard the early descriptions of the virus of what it does to people's breathing. I thought of my mother the beginning of her illness when she went to the ER with undiagnosed stage 4 Cancer and a liter and a half of fluid in her lungs and the doctor was planning to send her home with a laxative and so my mother's friend a cardiologist at the same Hospital insisted.

1 (18m 3s):
They give her a CAT scan. I thought of my mother at the end when everything they had given her to keep the pain at Bay to keep her unnaturally calm while her body's every instinct told her to panic also meant she couldn't hold her head up to cough or vomit how many times she said she didn't want to die hooked up to tubes. So when they first asked to intubate her her partner said know how when I was alone with her later that day. She began to choke suddenly awake and terrified and I held her hand and push the call button. I knew we didn't have that much time. So I ran into the hallway screaming for help and the nurse came running I stood in that hallway terrified.

1 (18m 45s):
My mother was going to die while I was in fact at the hospital by her bedside waiting for my mother to die. Just not like that how I didn't know for certain until after they put the tube in that I'd heard her voice for the last time. In the first months of quarantine sometimes in the middle of the day, I would find myself sobbing and only realize later why which bit of news triggered which memory the descriptions of what the virus does to the body how many of the early phases of the Dead were black women? My mother's age or the infuriating Financial politics of our Healthcare System.

1 (19m 29s):
It was hard for me to untangle on a personal or national level the difference between a Health crisis and the mental crisis when my mother's CAT scan came back indicating a problem before I could comfort her. I had to ask her for her insurance card and step out in the hallway to call in a payment because I knew if she got any further behind she would be uninsured. I knew that because we'd fought the week before when she told me she had stopped paying her insurance. She said the only thing wrong with me is high blood pressure and the only reason for that is stressed and the main reason I'm stressed is money. I decide if there's something else wrong by the time you know, it it will be too late.

1 (20m 11s):
It was already too late. When the virus first hit. I thought it would help it would have been for my sick mother after years of chemo and complications to have to add a pandemic to her list of dangers. I had the unbearable thought that it was a good thing. She didn't have to live through this. As Time passed I thought more of my mother when she was well my mother who would have made it maybe two weeks before calling to tell me she was coming to get me if she was coming this day, but she wasn't letting me stay in my apartment alone for months, but it's my apartment I would have said and she would have scoffed at my boundaries and calm anyway.

1 (20m 56s):
What I've been feeling acutely is the particular absence of the only person in the world who would have refused to leave me alone. Even when I absolutely wanted to be When I can step out of my personal agree for long enough, I summon my mother's tenacity in the face of the more Collective grief when the data on Race began to come in. It was not a surprise, but it was devastating and also terrifying When I saw who was dying, and I heard the narrative shift to personal responsibility. I lost all faith that we would take this seriously enough for long enough. I knew my country. I thought and I was afraid that once it thought this was a black and brown problem.

1 (21m 40s):
It would not blink at sacrificing gig workers and shipping plant workers and service workers and food workers and city employees to have back the world of money and parties it would kill them and replace them for as long as it needed to even once the Of the pieces started to change three months. I felt like my fear that black life wasn't worth much in this country was another form of aloneness, which is why the shock of June's protests and the deaths that made the necessary felt like horror and hope at once like we could say what had clearly been true all along. Even if we couldn't yet say for certain that it would change.

1 (22m 25s):
Still I'm terrified of getting sick because being sick alone means it may be too late when I realize how sick I am. I am terrified of having to go to the hospital alone because everything I know since there's no point in going to the hospital if I'm not well enough to credential myself. I do not have any particular health risk factors for this virus except that I find doctors trustful and my blood pressure spikes to beginning of any doctor's visit if the doctor is willing to humor me and take it again. My blood pressure is almost always normal on the file says they're having anxiety if the doctor is not the visit was upsetting. Then the file says my blood pressure is elevated mild hypertension.

1 (23m 7s):
If I got sick, no one would say she is a professor who just achieved a Peloton Milestone and has a refrigerator full of almond milk and fresh vegetables in the book out soon. And she Clorox wipe the apartments front doors every time she went to get the mail. Someone would say hypertension. Someone would say comorbidity. Someone would read the summary statistics and say that one doesn't count. She was basically dead anyway, because this is the game we are playing with language one where I and most The people in my family cannot count as dying of this because we are already not alive.

1 (23m 49s):
When I think this it is not especially good for my blood pressure. I add spite to my reasons to stay alive. And well, I greet my anxiety like an old friend one who wants me to live a long life and forgives me when I tell her I alternated he my Pappy smart bike and the despair of Twitter. I order new books in local bookstores before I finish the last batch. I donate what I can wear. I can work my way to the local tip jar venmo looking for my bartenders and Maurice. I'm a hairdresser. I talked to my father several times a week in recent years. He is taken to be keeping in a county park near his house and he is pleased that he can turn to his hives without violating social distancing guidelines.

1 (24m 33s):
I am anxious to find a safe way to visit him. I confess I am indifferent to visiting the bees. I congratulate my students on their accomplishments. I read a friend's daughter books via zoom and Come Away with a critical thesis unreformed needed and pixie Society. My most cautious friends in the city haven't socialized in person in months either. I regard with affection and suspicion the invitations. I do get for a mask socially distanced Gatherings as I restrictions relax. I am a lot of people's good friend and No One Singular person. And so every time someone reaches out, I think yes, I would love to see you and no I cannot risk it if your Social Circle is already wide enough that I'm included.

1 (25m 20s):
it I'm trying to imagine the first day. I will say yes. I'm trying to imagine when I can hug someone again and beyond that to the first day. I will take touch for granted to the next time. I will go someplace and spend a day among friends again and leave not remembering which of the people I adore is that goodbye to last. Not conscious of the significance not conscious of the danger. Daniel Evans is the author of a short story collection called before you suffocate your own fool self.

1 (26m 7s):
Act to an ocean apart. There's a way that loneliness calls to loneliness the more you know it the more likely you are to see it in the world lonely people can see things that other non lonely people might have missed Lily Sullivan has a story about that. It takes place in a vast non-human setting literally. No humans. Here's Lily. So seven years ago when I was just starting out and radio. I did a story about the scientific discovery because there was something about it that I want to understand the guy who first noticed. This thing was named Joe George on an island off the coast of Washington state. Yes. I was in the Navy

2 (26m 49s):
and we looked for submarines in that, you know in the open ocean

1 (26m 56s):
and by looking they're really listening. This is the 80s by the way, the Navy had these devices called. Hydrophones, that would listen to sounds in the ocean anything that might be a Soviet sub Joe had been doing it for decades could basically identify any ocean Sound by its Wiggles on the chart the one day he saw something. He'd never seen before a marine biologist looked at the signal said that it might be a whale it seems like it was huge like a blue whale or a fin whale judging by the characteristics of its call but the song This whale was singing was totally off because Cuz the whales we were looking

2 (27m 33s):
at or would be allowed us for down

1 (27m 36s):
at 20 Hertz. And

2 (27m 40s):
this one he was at he start out at 52

1 (27m 43s):
Hertz meaning the sound was over an octave higher than it should be and the could never detect any other whales with him these kinds of whales are really social animals. They often travel together in groups called pods. And usually when one will calls out other whales respond calling back and forth Other from miles away without that they'd never be able to find each other in a huge space like the ocean but this whale when he called out no, we'll ever seem to respond.

2 (28m 15s):
I'd always be looking for something else to see if there was anything else are like that and you know through the years it was the only vocalization like that in I'll say the North Pacific Ocean. There was nobody else like it.

1 (28m 32s):
I can actually play a recording of the call. They picked up back then huge whales like that like fin whales are blue whales there among the loudest creatures on Earth their songs to each other Rumble across the ocean they can hear each other from a thousand miles away. But those same songs there at frequencies too low for most humans to hear but this Wales call is high enough that most humans can actually hear it. Lots of speakers. Don't play sounds at such low. These but see if you can hear him. And if you could in here that here it is shifted up a bit to make it easier.

1 (29m 14s):
For scientist, they thought this is a useful. Usually it was almost impossible to track an individual whale because you pick up on their entire pods, but now they could follow a single whales migration precisely And as we track the whale like this, Joe realized but will was in the wrong place roaming miles away from where other whales were migrating calling out all the time. Never see me to get a response. Where did this eventually made it out into the public a science writer for the New York Times wrote a small story about it song of the sea.

1 (29m 58s):
And unanswered when people heard about this, they thought oh my God poor whale people wondered maybe other whales couldn't hear him because of his songs high frequency. Maybe he couldn't hear other whales or maybe he's a hybrid maybe a cross between a fin and a blue and because he sounds so strange other whales are afraid of him. So they don't respond when whales keep silent. That's how whales hide there was just something about the idea of a creature moving through Life constantly calling out to others and never getting a response using fundamentally out of sync in a way that God's people. I felt this way to at first heard about the whale five years before I talked to Joe back then I spent a lot of time alone.

1 (30m 45s):
I actually had a job where I traveled 24/7 for two years barely seeing friends or family or anyone I knew I would email myself passages. I liked from books so I could read them over and over. Here's one of them. It's from a book by James Salter. He wrote in solitude one must penetrate one must endure. The icy. Beginning is where it is. Worst one was past all that one must go forward all the way through bitterness through righteous feelings advancing upon it like a holy city sensing the true Joy. I still like that idea loneliness is a thing you can get better at and that getting better at it would take you somewhere more true.

1 (31m 28s):
I started to think of solitude is a project. I wanted to master over time more and more people heard about this. Whale I remember seeing someone posts about on Facebook and within a day 20,000 people wrote comments. There were people who wanted to try to fix the whale one person asked why can't we help it another wrote? Why can't it be tagged with something to rebroadcast the calls at a lower frequency the answer use can't people wrote music inspired by him like this song I talked to the guy in Ireland who was going through a divorce.

1 (32m 14s):
His wife saw the story online and emailed him a link from where she was sitting in the Next Room. Another guy talk to you made mixed tapes of the whale song Would mail those tapes actual cassettes to strangers who asked him for it someone in Germany wrote a children's book people imagined his life in the icy depths swimming a hundred years alone there. We were all of us walking around dizzy and our own isolations connecting to Well rather than other people scientists called him 52 Hertz. The rest of us called him the loneliest creature on earth.

1 (32m 59s):
When I talked to Joe he raised this issue that all those blogs kept overlooking and that I had overlooked too. We have no idea if this Wheels alone at all just because we can't hear other animals with him doesn't mean they're not there. He could be swimming with another group of whales or with a group of females who's vocalizations. Don't travel as far. There is of course one thing that could answer whether or not he's actually alone. We could go look at him but actually all these years no one has ever seen him. All we have is an idea of him. He's just a sound in the ocean. Even Joe hasn't seen him. He's only heard his calls Joe told me back then.

1 (33m 41s):
It'd be next to impossible to find him physically

2 (33m 44s):
right now. We have no idea where he looks like. It's be like looking for a needle in a haystack out there. Why because the ocean is big and you're looking for you're looking for one will you know how big the ocean it's not that big even a square mile. It's hard to find stuff

1 (34m 6s):
listening back to this interview. Now seven years after I recorded it. I can hear myself fishing trying to see if there was any part of Joe that thought about him the way I did as this. I guess this story for you. Is it mostly pure science for you? Or do you think do you think of this as personal as

2 (34m 26s):
well for me? I look at more science discovery of different whale More scientific

1 (34m 40s):
more scientific. I can hear myself being disappointed here. I keep trying do you feel like you know the whale Well,

2 (34m 51s):
well know what you don't know what a bit but not fully.

1 (34m 58s):
So have you ever been just you know, mowing your lawn and all of a sudden, you know, maybe after you saw the blog's did you ever have a thought like? Oh maybe that is a little sadder. Did you ever have a moment where you did think that it was the story was romantic in some way.

2 (35m 14s):
mmm No, oh I'd say no,

1 (35m 28s):
Joe told me we have no idea if he's lonely. I don't even know if Wheels get lonely. We're all guessing here. And since all we can do is guess here's another possibility. Maybe he's hearing other whales and avoiding them. Maybe he wants to be alone. Or maybe he doesn't mind. I hope that's true me I don't think about it much anymore. I stopped thinking about him after I got a dog Lily Sullivan is one of the producers of our show. She did her earliest worry about the well as part of the transom story Workshop.

1 (36m 15s):
Coming up a kid in Texas in isolation with his mom. He invents a game. That's not exactly a game. That's a lot like real life. That's in a minute from Chicago public radio when our program continues Support for This American Life comes from Capital One. Welcome to banking reimagined Capital One checking and savings accounts have no fees or minimums and a top-rated banking app that lets you manage your money anytime anywhere check on the account balance deposit checks pay bills and transfer money on the go. This is banking reimagined. What's in your wallet Capital One na member FDIC It's This American Life.

1 (36m 58s):
I'm a modern woman in for Ira Glass our program today how to be alone act three The Parent Trap. So lots of people have been spending time isolated with just the few people in their family. This next story is about a more extreme version of that. It's about a mother and her son the really had no choice about it. They were at a family Detention Center in dili, Texas. You probably remember a couple years ago parents and children. Being separated at the border. They also sometimes end up at places like this. There's three of them in the country. It's a particular kind of aloneness you're in a group, but at the same time being kept away from the rest of the world a little while ago this mom and her son were offered a way out but there was a catch one of our producers and idea Raymond explains when I asked the mom.

1 (37m 51s):
When will Colleen Did it to describe the detention center to me. She said can't y'all just secretly fly a drone or something so you Can see it she's to get things done kind of person you could attach a wire to a psychologist who comes in here and make recordings. She said she has ideas like this all the time. The Dilly family Detention Center is the biggest of its kind it's a bunch of trailers like the temporary housing kind arranged in clusters surrounded by chain-link fence. There's a cafeteria and a gym area with arts and crafts supplies. It's all moms and kids when Judith and her son first got there. She talks constantly with the other moms about which guards were nice in which four jurors above the many ways the food could be better about all the people they left behind her son.

1 (38m 37s):
Well, I'm calling Alejandro. He's a he made up this game that he'd play all the time. Well, add a Twist ideal meal. He would play pretend as if he was the the judge my goodness. He would come out with all the other kids and he would sit down and he would say I'm the judge little Viet us. It was Immigration Court, of course, he never actually been there, but he pieced all of this together from stuff. He'd heard it gave that and when you tell one of the other kids that he was officer and other kid that he was the attorney and he would ask the psychologist for lots of pieces of paper and for folders.

1 (39m 20s):
I mean, I even participated I would join in to prepare a written paper so that we could have the kids sign. He was a pretty lenient judge. He give all the kids Asylum most of the time I'm big boned us sometimes what he would get mad. He Adam I'm denying you Asylum. That was only time where they would be like that. They would be laughing and it made me feel like a Nostalgia because of how my son was with his how he was doing. Mentally. I mean who says he thought this will maintain which was not great. Especially after coronavirus got going Alejandro wasn't allowed to roam around as much he mostly had to stay inside the trailer with his mom.

1 (40m 5s):
He'd pretend all the time that today was the day they were getting out like he was trying to will it into existence have faith. He'd say it will happen and then one morning a guard came and woke them up just on my little mean that poor kid. I was I'm sleepy because I tried to wake up my son later in the day. So we wouldn't get up too early. So I kept him sleeping until 10:00 or 11:00 in the morning. That way his day would be shorter. Go by faster and I did things like that that day they knocked on my door and the officer told me ma'am. She told me they need you in court at 9:45.

1 (40m 47s):
Okay, I told the officer and I was happy and I left the room happy because I said to myself today. I'm getting out. She gets Alejandro and steps outside her trailer. She immediately sees that all of the other moms are also outside with their kids. She's like, hey, I got called into court and they're all like me to everyone had been summoned. They go to this huge trailer that functions as a courthouse. And as soon as they walk in, they get sent to different courtrooms. There's like 10 of them per room. No judge. No lawyers just a couple of ice officers Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

1 (41m 31s):
Gee that's head down and put out a handle on her lap. Some of the other moms have their kids with them to a nice officer began speaking to them. We need to Mature from you guys she says the officer told them in Spanish. So the kids can go with their sponsor a relative are responsible adult who could take care of them. In other words, her son could be released but she would say here alone and detention not only Jose Peraza. No, he didn't say separate but we're not dumb and from the moment you're saying that you're talking about the kids staying and without mewing obviously. It's a separation all the amantha. Amidst a landowner separation while this is happening.

1 (42m 14s):
Alejandro is sitting there just absorbing at all. He doesn't say anything. The officer said this should sign because of the coronavirus their kids would be safer somewhere else not locked up in here and PSI be known our mother. Also one of the moms got up and said, excuse me. She said, how could you think that if this is dangerous for the kids? It's not dangerous for us. The coronavirus there is covid a Dilly some of the guards and some of the ice officers have tested positive. The document the ice officer handed you to sign it was an English. She asked for one in Spanish.

1 (42m 54s):
They said no she asked if she could take a copy and show her lawyer first. They said no, so she started a quietly freak out then she notices another one of the moms a lady that had been there for about a year and always seem to know what to do. She gets up and goes to the bathroom. So did it is like I gotta talk to her. Did it takes Alejandro's hand and tries to follow her but a guard stops them. No one's allowed to go to the bathroom together. Social distancing Cadets. Like it's the boy he has to use the bathroom. It works once they're in the bathroom. She picks the stall next to the old-timer who tells her don't sign. You don't know where the kids will actually end up.

1 (43m 37s):
He dead is supposed to go back to the room at this point, but she doesn't she improvises an escape. She and Alejandro start to leave the trailer and when the guard asked where he going. She says we signed we're done then she and Alejandra run to another trailer or she can call a lawyer what she does her voice is really distinct. So I was like this. Yes. She was like, yes, she was talking really fast and she sounded really worried and confused and had a lot of questions this Exchange Lopez. She's a paralegal for projected Ellie. It's a group that offers pro bono representation for families in detention. Normally, there's always a team of them just sitting in a room at Delhi but since covid they've had to work remotely so they came up with a way to still be there.

1 (44m 22s):
They made a hotline and took turns answering calls coming from the Detention Center that day was six chose day. Did it like surprise you in a way that she was the first to call or were you kind of like, of course you'd be the first to call literally I was like, of course. Course, of course, like that was entirely unsurprising. I was like out of everyone it would be Her Like She's So badass and she's so just like strong-willed and like she says it as it is. She's like this is messed up. I think as soon as she said, Okay, they're asking us if we want our children to be sent to live with our sponsors.

1 (45m 3s):
I was like, oh my God, like they're gonna separate families again. And I remember thinking up with her and like cussing up a storm and being like what the fuck like what exchange starts texting messaging emailing what's going on to the rest of her team? I think I hung up the phone and immediately got another call from really yeah. Maybe within like two or three minutes. It was another mom from Dilly. Frantic calls were all the coming into Lori's from the other two detention centers all telling the same general story Isis asking families to sign something but the whole thing was really confusing. Some people were saying that they weren't even shown a document somewhere told sign this it just proves we talk to you but others say ice was threatening them telling them that they had to sign no choice that the officers asked if they would give their child up for adoption.

1 (45m 57s):
In many cases the officers ass all of this in front of the kids. Within 24 hours the lawyers from all three family detention centers got on a giant Zoom call with press to sound the alarm arguing. It was illegal to break up families like this by asking parents to sign something to couldn't even understand a nice wouldn't give the lawyers a copy of the document. I use did put out a statement shortly after this saying the officers were just going over a routine form with the detainees. When you get hangs up with Excel, she looks over at her son who's been quiet this whole time Aronofsky lost all busy of people his little eyes were filled with tears.

1 (46m 43s):
He was worried since he thought that he was going to be separated from me and he told me don't sign because Wherever You Go I Go. While you did was making the phone call the guards had started looking for her. They put her name and photo up on the screens that are all around the facility. As soon as she stepped out of the phone room. A guard recognized her made her go back to the trailer were all the other moms were with the ice officers when she gets there the officers look pissed at everyone not there. My mother the other moms were saying No One sign. No one signs signaling for everybody to not sign. And I'm going to be honest.

1 (47m 23s):
I was telling the others that were there to not sign. So, so just to be clear. Did you sign? No, you're not afraid of me. Hmm. As a parent you're supposed to be the one in charge. It's an unspoken pact between you and your kid. You're the one who decides things but in detention so much was out of you. That's control. This is a rare moment where she got to at least say no Miss empty cold, but I felt like I had an authority at that moment when I was saying that to them, but from then on I felt you know how I felt I felt like I was trembling like this.

1 (48m 4s):
When took over my body excited I got my why for case and thicken the sauce the safia I felt like I was defying an authority and I never thought that I would do something like that, you know, they're the department of ice and you can't say no to them if they decide to kick you out of the country. I mean, we're in their hands. I reached out to ice multiple times about this but they haven't responded but the lawyer said talk to have a theory about why the ice officers were doing this though. The government isn't supposed to detain kids longer than 20 days.

1 (48m 45s):
But some families have been in detention for months. There's this federal judge judge da li jie who has been basically yelling at ice about this for a while. She keeps getting more and more annoyed at of Court deadline was coming up. So the lawyers think ice was trying to cover their ass ask parents they were willing to From their kids and when they said no, well, they could tell the judge it's the family's fault. They won't release the kids. So we have to keep everyone in detention. But once the question like do you want your kids to be separated from you is said you can't really unhear it. It becomes part of your world. Four days after this happened Alejandro and his friends couldn't stop talking about it.

1 (49m 27s):
They kept asking each other's mom's if they had signed Alejandro as you did too. She kept saying no, you know, I didn't you were there. What is so low that he was just scared. Look he would sleep with me. This kid. He couldn't even go to the playroom to play because he was scared that ice was going to grab him and take him and sometimes I tell him son. Grab a go grab some milk, and he said no Mom the officers are there and they could take these and he would sometimes even scream in his sleep. And so I'd ask him what's wrong and he'd say Mom. I'm scared.

1 (50m 7s):
Don't sleep he told me because that's when they're going to take me not the little mom medalist. You're gonna meet us are fat. For what it's worth as far as I can tell when presented with the option of letting their kid out or being stuck together in detention every single family chose to stay. All the lawyers I talk to and they represent almost every single family in these facilities. They told me they didn't know of anyone who agreed to separate better to be alone together. At least. This was a loneliness a new Nadia Raymond is one of the producers of our show Alejandro and his mom did finally get released seven weeks ago, but it had nothing to do with the judge's order.

1 (50m 59s):
Alejandro had to have his appendix out and they couldn't care for him at the facility. The judge has extended the deadline for eyes to figure out what to do with kids who have been detained longer than 20 days ice has until the end of the month. We've arrived at act for Applied Bob studies. Can we take a moment to review some of the negative connotations the word isolation brings up think of the penalty box or solitary confinement. But what if that isolation is a choice you make does that alone is feel like something very different. I spoke to someone with an idea of the answer to that question - Andy Allen The Story begins in 2017 Sandy was living in Brooklyn with an increasing feeling that they wanted to live closer to Nature.

1 (51m 51s):
It wasn't that they have fallen out of love with cities. This was less about running away than it was about actively running towards something something green and Lush and on top of that Sandy was beginning to come out as non-binary. I think I was just starting to play with such things as dressing a little more androgynous Lee and leaving the house and or going to A barber shop for men and getting a haircut there and trying to kind of like violate that taboo and not feel too weird. If all these men were staring at me as I got a haircut in those months of change they'd begun to notice how they're very apparent seem to make the edge Hodge I had shifted from appearing like a certain thing in public which was like a white woman to appearing like this other thing which was this white.

1 (52m 37s):
I don't know like a are you a dude or what and I was I think all of the time because becoming more and more aware of everybody who saw me and what did I look like to them and how much of a threat was a random woman in a woman's room going to be to me was I going to get weird looks was I going to get yelled at was I going to get you no hostile comments muttered at me and like I most sensitive flower. I was very like I really I don't know. I'm very sensitive to people's feelings and emotions. And so I think there was a sense. Of it would probably be wiser for me to cut down on the volume of interactions that I have with strangers.

1 (53m 21s):
But Sunday had it they think it's an example of how to handle the situation there Uncle Bob at some point. He'd also decided at the volume of interactions in his life was way too big and he took decisive radical action. He moved a few hours away from where he'd grown up in the Bay Area to somewhere farther up north a place mostly free of other humans. Sandy had known Bob as a sort of weird bigger he lived in mostly solitary existence. Sometimes they'd see him a Christmas or at their grandfathers vacation home in northern Minnesota. Bob likes a have long conversations and sometimes he'd lead long rambling messages and Sandy's families answering machine playing his music or comedy skits growing up Sandy didn't see Bob as a kindred spirit in a family that didn't talk directly about things.

1 (54m 8s):
Bob was an incomplete picture an example of failure. As a teenager Bob had been given the psychiatric diagnosis of schizophrenia and was repeatedly hospitalized and prescribed antipsychotic medication. Sometimes against his will in family law. He was kind of this troubled guy who got kicked out of high school and then bounced between psych hospitals and Friends couches, Sandy and Bob won't close and then one day in 2009 just as Sandy had started grad school in Iowa. They got a package in the mail. Bob had written his autobiography and sent it to them. I initially got this text in the mail from my hermit uncle that was like typed in all caps on a typewriter and like 60 pages and it had like swear words and slurs and it was a mess and it was you know, I was just like what is this?

1 (54m 57s):
I don't want this, you know, and I at the time I would have thought okay this guy my like as I would have called him way back my crazy Uncle Bob my crazy Uncle Bob and me. We are as far apart as two people can be you know, I would have thought in my heart. Here I am. I'm like I am a Scholastic achiever. And here's Uncle Bob who like lives in the desert and I've been to his house once and it was full of cigarette smoke and bibles and you know a TV that he hadn't turned off in decades and I kind of got out of there and was like, all right. I don't really need to know that guy but then Sunday got to reading the manuscript and they didn't just read it. They do move into it. Try to figure out who Bob was even started writing a book about him and they discovered something Bob.

1 (55m 41s):
I'd solved for himself a problem that his mental health professionals and the world in general hadn't been able to Bob had managed to figure out the best version of his life living alone far away from the crush of people and Sandy found that Bob was mostly content and I saw that as a model for like, okay, you've realized your incompatible with Society at large, perhaps. What do you do? I was like, well I kind of have a guidebook here. So they took bulbs example and moved. In 2017, Sandy and a boyfriend now husband moved Upstate to the Catskills. They want under any romantic Illusions about country living like if I go to a grocery store or a go to the Post Office and old man would stare at me the whole time a grocery shop door, like little kids would debate what gender I was in front of you know what I mean like that kind of stuff can happen here just as well as it could happen anywhere and there isn't really anywhere where I think I feel entirely safe other than my house.

1 (56m 41s):
Is why I like my house so much tell me about your setup then so how isolated is life up there really? So when when we moved here or where I sit on my front porch, you know, I don't see another human dwelling like it's very much like my neighbors are trees and trees and trees and trees. It's just it's astonishing Lee Beautiful In Like A Million Ways every day. I mean, I think that that is mental health care. Before covid-19 Sandy's husband traveled a lot for work. Sometimes Sandy was alone for weeks at a time. It felt incredibly challenging at times especially early on you know, I was like, oh no, I felt like oh, what did I just do like I've replaced like people with trees.

1 (57m 25s):
I had that feeling of like, oh, no, I'm going to have no friends and then I remembered Bob and I remembered like well Bob didn't let living in the desert. Stop him from having friends Bob built a system. Himself what he interacted with people but not so many and not so much that it became unwanted noise in his head. It was only as alone as he needed to be it turns out Bob a man who proudly called himself a Hermit living only with his two dogs was actually something of a social servant. I think in Bob's specific case, it totally surprised me. I got on the phone with every person who had known him how I could possibly find who would talk to me and everybody who I found like everybody I spoke with was like you will not believe it.

1 (58m 15s):
Bob used to call all the time. Bob would stay in touch and I was kind of like isn't that funny how a norm here seems to be if you're physically isolated you have to really cut off from people and I think Bob if anything because of the life, he led and all of the ways in which I think he was a lonely person. He was actually I think really Adept at overcoming maybe that little Voice inside your head that says I don't reach out, you know, like don't do that. That would be weird or whatever like Bob was not worried about that. He was calling people and I think it's forced me in a way to I don't know not really except physical isolation as an excuse for being disconnected. I try to tell myself like hey, don't just stop talking to people because you live out here like it's something that you have to invest in.

1 (59m 11s):
Sandy wanted to learn how to be alone and had to do it comfortably in their words to just hang out with themselves and Bob provided a model his big three tenants were creativity community and spirituality. Bob was like this just example I had kind of in my head of like, okay, you're alone. What are you going to do about it? You know what to do Bob showed you like It's not the same stuff. I don't read the Bible and play the guitar and watch Joel Osteen and you know, like call my cousin Jane like I don't do the same stuff that Bob did I do call Jane but like I had to figure out what are my versions of read the Bible play guitar the version of that was singing and playing the piano baking bread and where possible growing food and sharing it with a small community.

1 (1h 0m 3s):
Would you say that you you've ended up getting what you wanted like, would you like did it make your life better in the ways that you hoped it would. Oh, I mean honestly Bim, I don't even remember what the world was before. I mean, I feel like my whole Consciousness began about three years ago when I moved to this how I don't know the big things. Is that weird. I don't remember this for me. This is my whole universe now is like this this place the weather here today, you know, and what's going on in my garden. I think I've just like, yeah, I've had a full like head transplant of some kind even since the first afternoon I was here.

1 (1h 0m 43s):
I was just like yes, yes, yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. This is what I want to be doing. Sandy's not alone. Not really the same way. Bob wasn't either instead. They're in a sort of self-governed isolation which is different to the misery of covid-19 driving us into our own homes in definitely Sandy's isolation is completely under their control. They looked squarely at aloneness and made decisions about how to manage it alone is one of those words that I immediately kind of Wonder aren't we all alone is there Anybody who does not feel very alone.

1 (1h 1m 27s):
I would love to meet that person. There's stuff that can make that even more profound and I think when you're queer or trans maybe to you just know that like some people aren't going to be in your life forever, you know, like for me coming out has entailed a fair amount of social loss as long as you're alive, you're going to have to contend with like being inside your head being inside your story being inside the world which is full of prejudice and bullshit. You know, I think that for me that really thinking about not Let's solve it all you know, or like how will I combat loneliness forever? Like definitely I've had these moments where I'm like, wow, I really set myself up to just be alone. You know, I've tried to kind of give myself permission to embrace like yeah.

1 (1h 2m 11s):
I'm weird. You know, I'm not normal. I've never been normal. There was never a moment of my life when I understood whatever a person who is assigned woman at Birth or man at Birth and just feels that way like, I don't With that is I've never known what that is. So for me, it's like so freeing to just be like, yeah, I live in the country by myself for the most part and I can walk around topless and I've had Top surgery and I don't care if anyone Drives By and sees my scars like this is who I am and like life is glorious and let's show up for it. You know, Bob wasn't sitting in the desert going. Oh, woe is me. I'm sure he had minutes and days where he felt that way.

1 (1h 2m 51s):
I think he did sometimes get really down about some of the The experiences that he had in his life, especially the first time he was in a hospital. I think a lot of stuff happened to him that really was hard and I think he also was someone who despite a lot and figured out how to like sit down at his typewriter or pick up his guitar and like continue on Sandy Allen the book about their Uncle Bob is called a kind of miraculous Paradise a true story about schizophrenia.

1 (1h 3m 56s):
A program was produced today by me and Nadia Raymond people who work on Today Show include Susan Burton Ben Calhoun Dennis Chavez chuckle of either the cornfield. No Gil Damien grave Mickey mixte. Oh Nelson Catherine. Raimondo, Billy Sullivan. Christopher's wa'ta'ala Matty Andy and Julie Whitaker and managing editors espera abdelrahman and Diane you are executive editor is David kestenbaum special. Thanks today to Rob Rosenthal Melissa Flores show. Hockey Bridget Cambria Andrea Moser Leroy chiao, Julia Freeland, Jamie Suncor Christopher W clock of the Cornell lab of ornithology Layla's egg and Woods Hole oceanographic institution. You can hear the original version of Lily's story about the whale that may or may not be lonely at transom dot-org a website that gives people the tools and inspiration to make their own Public Radio Lily made this as part of a training they offer called the transom story Workshop visit Transcendent org to learn about their workshops and to check out all the resources there.

1 (1h 4m 52s):
I offer our website. There's American life.org This American Life is delivered to public radio stations by PRX the public radio exchange. Thanks to our shows usual host Ira Glass, you know, he has Netflix but not HBO Max which led to a horrible realization about his favorite sitcom. I had that feeling of like, oh, no, I'm going to have no friends and no matter what me. We'll be back next week with more stories of This American Life.