3 (1s):
Support for This American Life comes from Squarespace make your website your own with the ability to customize the look and feel settings products and more for a free trial of your new website. Visit. Squarespace.com American and enter American Squarespace. Think it dream it make it. From WBZ Chicago is this american guy from Ira

1 (25s):
Glass? So whatever producer is kinda choppy Walt has been a few years reporting on the

3 (30s):
history of one school. It's a public school in a big city and the beginning kind of thought the story was about segregation and inequality in public schools. But the more she spoke to people and research what had happened at this one school, then once you realize it was actually about the inordinate amount of power that white parents had at this one school. She found so many stories there that we realized we couldn't fit it all into one episode of our program and that we would need to release it as its own little mini series podcast so last week a little three minute trailer was released. The name of the show is nice white parents and even before the First episodes appeared it became this war

1 (1m 10s):
thousands of ratings and comments online at Apple podcast people saying

3 (1m 13s):
it's divisive that it's racist to talk about white parents giving the show one star reviews other people giving it five. Star reviews to cancel out the one star reviews. Remember nobody had heard the show yet. The comments were about some imagined thing that people thought that the show would be rather than the actual story that Hannah tells Which is, you know, kind of

1 (1m 34s):
funny. I think it also speaks to how the entire subject freaks people out so

3 (1m 38s):
much white parents how rarely that is explicitly named as the subject of reporting. There is so much reporting on people of color as people of color and so little reporting on white people as white people, even when they're the heart of the story as they are with this one and when you listen to what Hannah found you feel how rare it is. I personally found it eliminating. You can listen and judge for yourself today. We're presenting right here one of the stories that Hannah tells in her series about one of the big turning points in the school's recent history before we start I want to note everything you're going to hear this hour was recorded before coronavirus arrived. So it is a world where people you know get together in person with no mass or anything.

3 (2m 21s):
Don't be shocked. All right, here's Hannah. I started reporting this story at the very same moment as I was trying to figure out my own. To the subject of this story wait parents in New York City Public Schools. I was about to be one of them when my kid was old enough. I started learning about my options Ed many there was owned public school in Brooklyn, or I could apply to a handful of specialty programs a gifted program or a magnet school or a language program. So I started to look around this was five years ago now, but I vividly remember these tours I'd show up in the Lobby of the school at the time listed on the website look around and notice that all or almost all of the other parents who'd shown up for the 11:00 a.m.

3 (3m 9s):
Middle of the work day early in the shopping season School tour were other wait parents as a group. We'd Walk The Halls following a school administrator almost always a man or woman of color through a school full of black and brown kids. We'd pier in the classroom Windows watch the kids sit in a circle on the rug. Questions about the lunch menu homework policy discipline. Some of us would take notes and the administrators would sell the whole thing was essentially a pitch we offer stem. We have a partnership with Lincoln Center. We have a dance studio. They were pleading with us to please take part in this public school.

3 (3m 52s):
I don't think I've ever felt my own consumer power more viscerally than I did shopping for a public school as a white parent. We were entering schools that people like us had ignored for decades. They were not our places, but we were being invaded to make them ours. The whole thing was made so much more Awkward by the fact that nobody on those tours ever acknowledge the obvious racial difference that roughly a hundred percent of the parents in this group did not match say 90% of the kids in this building. Remember one time being guided into a classroom and being told that this was the class for gifted kids and noticing. Oh, here's where all the weight kids are.

3 (4m 34s):
Everyone on our tour saw this all of us parents, but nobody said anything including me we walked out into the hallway. My mom raised her hand and said I do have one question. I've been meaning to ask and the group got quiet. I was thinking okay here comes but then she said do the kids here play outside everyday. I knew the schools were segregated. I shouldn't have been surprised by the time I was touring Although the parent it's been a fair amount of time in schools as a reporter. It doesn't stories on the Stark inequality in public education. And I've looked at some of the many programs and reforms we've tried to fix our schools.

3 (5m 17s):
So many ideas. We've tried standardized tests and Charter Schools. We've tried smaller classes longer school days stricter discipline looser discipline tracking differentiation. We've decided the problem is Teachers. The problem is parents. What is true about almost all of these reforms is that when we look for what's broken for how our schools are failing we focus on who they're failing poor kids black kids and brown kids. We asked why aren't they performing better? Why aren't they achieving more? Those are not the right questions. There is a powerful force that is shaping our Public Schools arguably the most powerful force.

3 (6m 1s):
It's there even when we pretend not to notice. It like I'm not school tour if you want to understand why our schools aren't better. That's where you have to look you have to look at white parents. That's what this story is about. I'm going to take you inside a public school building and utterly ordinary squat three-story New York City public school building not too far from where I live. This isn't one of the school's I had toured and my own kids. Don't go here. They're too little this is a middle and high school called the school for international studies sis. The story of this school and its relationship with weight parents down the block span 60 years, but the part I want to tell you begins at SAS in the spring of 2015 right before everything at the school changed.

3 (6m 52s):
In 2015, the students at us is were black Latino and Middle Eastern kids mostly from working class and poor families that year like the year before and the year before that the school was shrinking the principal Jillian human was worried. Yeah. So last two years we had 30 students in our sixth grade class. And so we really have room for a hundred so numbers I think are hard. Mr. And started to reach out to families from the neighborhood inviting them to please come take a look parents are showing up for tours of us is mostly groups of white parents.

3 (7m 32s):
Miss. Drummond was thrilled and relieved she watched parents through the building saying stop me any time anyone has any questions really anything. I want you to feel comfortable. I'm a student says they did have questions mostly about the poor test scores. That was fair this dream unexpected those questions. She did not expect the other set of questions. She got a lot from parents is their weapons. Is there your are you scanning or you a scanning school because kids are dangerous and their web weapons. I've heard that there's anything like metal detectors, right? I heard those fights and you know, those kinds of things I don't know what school you're talking about. I have never heard of that incident.

3 (8m 13s):
Ever happening ever. So the fears

1 (8m 15s):
of what this building is and what this building has represented has kind of transcended itself. We only worked with there's a different story of international studies outside this

3 (8m 24s):
building how much of that do you think is racism I think our entire Society is fearful of the unknown excellent principal answer principal Juma is Black by the way, she needed these parents schools get money per student a shrinking School means a shrinking budget mystery man was worried. If this continued the middle school could be in danger of being shut down by the city as I ask is in Cobble Hill Brooklyn leafy streets Brownstones. It's a wealthy. Wait neighborhood that's gotten wealthier and waiter in the last decade but way families were not sending their kids to SAS Miss Drew.

3 (9m 11s):
Mom told these parents choose sis. We're turning things around. We're in the process of bringing a new prestigious International Baccalaureate curriculum. Renovating the library. Here's the new gorgeous yard. It's an excellent School. The parents seemed interested but I believe that might have had just as much to do with what was happening outside of the school as what they were seeing inside the building.

1 (9m 37s):
Sure. So, my name is Rob Hansen and I'm a parent. So we were the Middle School processes

3 (9m 43s):
interesting Brad lives nearby SAS, but he had never heard of the school in his district. Rob could choose from 11 middle schools. The majority of white families send their kids to the same three schools Rob's wait. Those are the schools he heard of and those are the schools he toured but they were packed there were too many wealthy white families in the district to continue cramming into just three schools.

1 (10m 10s):
There's a couple of Citywide ones where we went and we stood on line for like an hour an hour and a half and then joined in an auditorium full of parents and then had them announced that they were accepting 15 students in the following in the coming

3 (10m 21s):
class and they've been running towards all day most cities have some amount of school choice like this. This tours and options New York City though is an amped-up version of what happens elsewhere the level of competition the level of wealth the diversity of people sorting into different schools. Everything is more intense. Rob found this process frustrating. Although rub is very even-tempered even when he's frustrated. He's Canadian when he gets especially hot. He starts calling things interesting and this whole Middle School thing was very interesting. He asked other parents on School tours. What are we going to do? Someone said have you guys heard of SAS that building down the block?

3 (11m 5s):
Rob hadn't the others hadn't they decided to all go check it out together.

1 (11m 10s):
I walked Away, lots of parents walked away from those tours thinking. Wow, you know

3 (11m 14s):
people are jamming up into

1 (11m 15s):
some schools and and you're leaving 60 or 70 seats empty empty all year long. You have 30 kids. It doesn't that's you spread them out around and that's a big school then all of a sudden you're sort of like, wait a second. What's there's nobody here

3 (11m 30s):
as Rob toward saf, he had an idea that night. He emailed principal jumman, and he asked would she be open to starting a dual language French program at SAS? They had one at the elementary school wraps kids went to and everyone loved it. Sure principal jumman was open. So Rob started spreading the word SAS is starting a dual language French program. We should all go robson's there was interest but a lot of people he talked to had this question. We are other people going

1 (12m 2s):
and in families have that kind of fear, like what if I'm you know, if I look around nobody else came with me and and I came for something that's not here because Buddy, so it's a collective action problem.

3 (12m 13s):
Wait, why? Is there a collective act why why do you need a collective

1 (12m 17s):
just on the just I think overall there's a collective action issue, but if you're interested in this in part because of the French dual-language part of it, if you're the only one to show up, there's no French teacher for one student, but there's a program if 15 come if 20 come but we all have to then take one step forward exactly the same time. The vision requires people to come and what if nobody comes

3 (12m 45s):
when it came time to choose middle schools parents are supposed to rank their top choices rape before they did before everyone chose their school's rubs them to survey out to the families who've been talking to to try to ensure that a group of them would choose as is together. It was a simple Survey Monkey if enough people said, yes, they drank SAS is one of their top picks and they would be able to act as a collective. People said yes, the numbers were stunning in 2014. There have been 36 graders at us is in 2015. There would be a hundred and three that 200% increase was almost entirely white kids.

3 (13m 26s):
Did you think about yourself as integrators? Did you think about

1 (13m 33s):
my Paws was because I was trying to

3 (13m 36s):
think if that had gone through my mind and no no the not integrators

1 (13m 43s):
participants in the school that

3 (13m 44s):
was going to hopefully be diverse. But yeah not I that's not a

1 (13m 52s):
framing or a way of thinking about it that it would have occurred to

3 (13m 56s):
me the time nobody I talk to you from saf characterized what was happening there as integration, but here's my integration was on my mind. The New York City Department of Education was aware. Their schools were segregated. It was also aware that desegregation is the most effective way to close the gap in achievement between black and white students, but it did not In to mandate racial integration through zoning or School placements the city was trying to make integration happen through Choice hoping to lure white families into segregated schools. The school tour is I went on for my own kids the sparkly programs and amenities that was the new approach to integration.

3 (14m 42s):
Akan. This work for white parents to opt into integration. Not because we have to or because it's the right thing to do. But because it's a selling point because we get a dance studio and stem and a school that was hopefully diverse integration without talking about race.

1 (15m 7s):
The kids at SAS though. They did talk about risk immediately fall 2015 the first few weeks of school a senior named Kristen leans over to her classmate Chris and

3 (15m 18s):
mumbles there a lot of white kids in the school. And Chris says, oh yeah, a teacher warned me about that over the summer.

1 (15m 25s):
You told me like, oh, there's gonna be a lot of white kids coming in French white kids from upper air. Comics that assists of prepared for that

3 (15m 33s):
Kristen nods. Yeah, I guess we were prepared and then she turns to me to say I should have been ready for that. We saw the parents on the tours last year

1 (15m 43s):
we would see them walk through the hall but we never knew it was so serious that like a whole group of caucasians would come in like it would be so diverse, but it was like such a big change like not to be prejudiced anything but I noticed like the big change like high schoolers are more Hispanics and blacks with the few. Caucasians and then like the new group that came in all cases like they're trying to make it. So

3 (16m 5s):
diverse diverse. This was a word I heard over and over in the first few weeks of school diversity.

1 (16m 13s):
I love diversity. So I did it doesn't like so when I just see like other white kids, I'm like so

3 (16m 19s):
diversity seem to have two different definitions wait families would talk about all of the diversity at sis and they were talking about Black and Hispanic kids when kids of color know that the diversity they were Frank the new weight kids for a lot of kids of color this looked a lot like something that already seen happen in their neighborhoods wait family's showing up in large numbers taking over stores familiar spots. There's a word for that it's gentrification, but I noticed that no one was using that word about the school. What was happening here was diversity. That's how the adults talked about it diversity is a good thing something you're supposed to be okay with for the most part the kids were it was different for the parents some of them the specific advantages to the diversity like Kenya Blunt The Cove is president of the PTA at SAS.

3 (17m 14s):
He was excited

1 (17m 15s):
having the new parents coming in and the diversity that particular maybe comes from the the new style called the new neighborhood the way that things are changing in the neighborhood is that we have a gentleman who his Profession is fundraising

3 (17m 33s):
Rob Hansen the Dad who started the Survey Monkey Rob raises money for nonprofits and foundations for a living over the course of the Year all here rub Hansen referred to as Todd Hansen Ted Manson. Mr. Handsome. Kenya was the only one who went with the gentleman whose profession is fundraising the most common was just the guy who gets the money. Rob told the PTA he was eager to raise money for the school to Kenya. This meant more resources at his own kids school his boys and all the kids could benefit.

1 (18m 8s):
He has brought on the challenge and taken it upon himself to raise $50,000. So 5 is 0 with three zeros after that. Yes, $50,000 which again is again goes back to the whole. I'll say the first few thing and new people who are thinking outside the box as Our PTA I don't think that we were thinking that big

3 (18m 30s):
they were definitely not thinking that big because the PTA was run by I me Hernandez and her co-president Susan moscar. I mean he is not a gentleman who fundraises she's a social worker the first time I met I mean she was wearing a t-shirt that said I'm not spoiled. My husband just loves me. She's Puerto Rican grew up in Brooklyn. Her husband. Maurice is Puerto Rican and black and really does adore her. He grew up in Brooklyn, too. They have one daughter one pit bull when Persian cat and one school. I make it my business to stick myself in her school for I'm he's the new diversity he gave her paws. Like when I saw in September the population that came in as like, oh that's a little

1 (19m 13s):
frightening

3 (19m 15s):
and even the socio

1 (19m 19s):
on the radio and

3 (19m 21s):
I saw a lot of white people with very high socio socioeconomic backgrounds. You know they have money and that's great. But money tends to scare people and I'm one of the people at scarce.

1 (19m 36s):
I'm one of the people it's cares because twists everything

3 (19m 39s):
around and I don't like that. I don't like

1 (19m 41s):
that. I don't like

3 (19m 43s):
that. I'd rather have a dinner

1 (19m 45s):
where people of different cultures bring their food and we share together then have somebody else

3 (19m 50s):
caterer. Like that's how I feel you build

1 (19m 53s):
community. I'm a social worker. That's my background and that's what I believe

3 (19m 56s):
in. I'm here was in her second year at the school. You're before she put on community events teacher appreciation a Spring Carnival with face painting and hot dogs. There is some money here and there but I mean his vision for the PTA wasn't really about fundraising the new parents though. They wanted to be active in their new school and they were accustomed to supporting their kids schools by fundraising. The two approaches came face-to-face at a PTA meeting in October

1 (20m 25s):
3 more minutes RL and then it's up to everyone. Yes.

3 (20m 33s):
They're better dozen grown-ups sitting on small plastic chairs around a classroom table the PTA executive board principal. Jumman is here too. I'm he's leading and the principal jumps in she says she wants a minute to share how much the new fundraising committee had raised so far. I mean looks confused principal jumman goes on to say the new fundraising committee has had a lot of success,

1 (20m 57s):
but total they have raised according to Rob about Ours and then we just had a donation from a family a couple weeks ago who wants to be anonymous that they're going to give either 5 to 10 10 grand and December. So this is this is big

3 (21m 12s):
money people seem unclear what to do with their faces. This is good news, right but also wait, what's the fundraising committee? I'm he turns to her husband Maurice a retired cop Maurice is also the treasurer of the PTA because when he retired his His wife told him he couldn't just sit around at home. Marie shrugs that I me doesn't seem to know anything about this new money. I meet turns back to principal jumman. So can we use that

1 (21m 42s):
money can have access to this one? Because I know already like but what is the PTA so that's what that's about a question that is going around. So this $18,000 Rob has raised Under the Umbrella of PTA.

3 (21m 56s):
That's principal. Jumman.

1 (21m 57s):
Okay, so I think but whose Because don't it was without any where's it going? Yeah, because this PTA member don't know nothing about it. So, you know, how can I be accessed for his new

3 (22m 9s):
goal worries asks, how can that money be accessed for? Mr. Negroni who wants new gym uniforms or mr. Lowe to get as microscopes. I mean odds, I mean God bless Robin more power to

1 (22m 21s):
him. Yeah, but he's not an official

3 (22m 23s):
member, right? So I think that's what makes it confusing at least for me. You know, he is a PTA member because he's a parent but he's not part of the

1 (22m 31s):
executive board. So I think that's what makes it. That's probably true. Yeah makes it tricky. I mean and again, I'm not and they know I mean he could keep bringing the money. That's great. But you

3 (22m 39s):
know principal German odds repeats that she was just robbed had been able to make it. She was hoping everyone could be here and get on the same page about money. But Rob is chaperoning a sixth-grade overnight trip. They're late getting back one. Mom a white woman who came in with the new group of sixth graders says look, I know Rob. Means well,

1 (23m 1s):
but I think Rob is a professional fundraiser. Yes. Therefore he's great as his initially money the fundraising. Yeah, and I think that's great. But I don't he should communicate with the medium and my

3 (23m 14s):
impression is another he's mean to offend any

1 (23m 16s):
know. I don't know. I think he's sort of thinking about like well, maybe an amazing you really I think yeah. Yeah, that's principal jumman

3 (23m 28s):
at this point everyone seems to to feel a little weird about how long they've spent talking about a fellow parent who is not present in any way. It's money for the school. We're all for that. We just need better communication. I me says, yeah, it's just usually money raised by parents goes through the PTA so we can all talk about where to spend it. Rob walks into the room. You just got back from the sixth grade trip. He sits down and they all start to talk. We need to sort out some questions about money then a mom from the fundraising committee says she's worried about me recording and asked me to stop so I do

1 (24m 17s):
the same question, but we don't know

3 (24m 20s):
now, let me say though and take notes Rob apologizes and then explains a group of them have been meeting to raise money for the school the new dual language. Is French program is expensive and they promised the principal they'd help raise money to cover it. They were just eager to help Rob says so they formed a committee. He's really sorry. He should have communicated and coordinated better with the PTA. But good news is it's going great. Someone has a contact with the French Embassy a guy at the cultural Services arm in New York. And he says he wants to help cover the cost of new French teachers and books. They've already kicked in around 10 grand at this point.

3 (25m 0s):
I know it's I wrote lots of Lux big money rob says the embassy suggested we do a fundraiser and event. They can help here. I wrote looks confused mad. Nobody really talking. I me says this fundraiser will be at the school though, right and free for everyone. Rob says, yes, good good. She asks One More Time free. I just want to make sure everyone can go lots of nods. Rob says totally this is a community event for our community after about 20 minutes. I mean says we're out of time guys.

3 (25m 41s):
I can't tell if this is out of a professional commitment. I'm he has to stick to the schedule. Or a personal commitment to getting out of that room. Before I came to SAS, I never thought much about the role of ptas ever at SAS early on I had this feeling of oh a PCA is actually critical to the success of an integrated School a PTA has a very simple Democratic structure. Every parent has an equal vote smart. It's like a built-in system to equalize power to help them make a budget together make decisions that priorities collectively Or not so we're lucky enough.

3 (26m 28s):
We have Rob here who has really, you know taken over fundraising and try to bring it to the next level here here at our schools for like it's another PTA meeting and the whole Collective thing is not really happening at the last it seems like the new parents are still raising money separate from the PTA and the communication problems do not seem to be resolved and some of the new parents have an idea. They propose a formal separation the PTA and the people doing And raising basic idea. Rob says this way there'd be two organizations collecting money for SAS.

1 (27m 0s):
There will be two sorts of ways dollars arrays one would be a community raised big Sales Direct gifts. So

3 (27m 8s):
that would be the PTA side the community funds then there would be a separate organization that would go after grants and big donors up until this point there seems to be tension bubbling under the surface between the new parents in the old parents, but it wasn't really until this moment that the unsaid started to get said mostly by Annie's husband Maurice.

1 (27m 30s):
I think a lot of us feels all day. There's two different groups is the fundraising group and a PTA which is you know, that's what looks like you guys have to go and of making $50,000 and it's going to the

3 (27m 45s):
French program. Now

1 (27m 46s):
as you said, what about the rest of the school with was money going we are going answer and I don't know it's very easy to Feel steamrolled.

3 (27m 57s):
That's Maureen. Oh, wait, mom who's new there are lots of nods Maurice is asking is this new money you're talking about is it just for the new French dual language program, which is another way of asking is this money just for your kids or is it for everybody? Rob says emphatically. It's for everybody Murray says

1 (28m 18s):
really that's be

3 (28m 20s):
naively think okay.

1 (28m 21s):
They're going to donate all my French Embassy and we're going to okay. Well we're going to buy. Buy new 12 boards with that

3 (28m 26s):
that's kind of been a now you

1 (28m 28s):
saying the 50,000 bit for the PTA Community to decide was going to go. So, I mean, I hear what you're saying, which is sounds great. But again, maybe I'm still thinking about last meeting when Jillian say, okay. Well, we only get a percentage of that. So we still don't have an answer

3 (28m 46s):
leader talking to Rob. I learned that the new separate fundraising arm. He's talking about is actually a foundation. They want to create a school based Foundation. At SAS the plan is to call it the Brooklyn World project. I asked Rob. Why do you need another way to raise money? There's a there's a PCA. Most

1 (29m 5s):
people have heard of a school PTA. Why do you need a separate organization? That's not the PTA. Yeah. So the probably the easiest way to explain it is to not think about it from the school side. But to think about it from the potential donor side. So basic idea that we're following is that The let's say they didn't that International says we want to do extend a day and we want to do theater. And so we go and we find a donor who loves theater and loves the French language and loves the idea that kids who've never spoken French and had no exposure get the chance to go and compete actually against some of the most established schools in the city and a donor just loves that like, I love it.

1 (29m 48s):
I love giving that kind of opportunity to kids. I'm going to cover all of that because I think it's that important if that money goes to PTA. You could have a situation of the PTA says or members of ETA say I don't know that we really like the theater program. I'm not sure I think that we should be using those dollars to do X or Y or Z Now normally you'd be able to say well donor intent is what it is. You should probably use it towards what it was intended for normally in another fundraising contact meeting in nonprofits. So there's a basic kind of morality of a non-profit to say if a donor gives you it to you to do something you should try to do that donor. Intense and important part of it sort of a trust that's

3 (30m 27s):
established Rob says because the PTA is a democracy. It makes things complicated the very thing I saw as a strength of a PTA one parent one vote to rub that's a problem for fundraising parents come and go and change their minds about what's important a private donor wants stability and Rob is trying to raise money for the kind of programming that was available at his sons wealthy Elementary School at that school. Rob was co-president of the PTA and the previous year his PTA pulled in close to $800,000 $800,000 money that paid for after school programming and ballroom dancing chess art music a garden $800,000 for a school that is 75 percent weight and serves as a tiny fraction of the poor kids in the district.

3 (31m 19s):
There aren't enough wealthy parents that as is to raise that kind of money that Year Rob helped raise $800,000 the FAS PTA raised. Mm. So Rob was trying to be creative a foundation was away for his new school to catch up the school leadership. The principal was behind the idea. Mr. Dumont told me she saw the foundation as a path to equity and access more resources meant they'd be able to provide all kids with opportunities like say A school trip to France but the parent leadership they found it annoying. I mean new the new parents were trying to help the school, but she already likes the school.

3 (32m 0s):
She felt like she was being saved against her will plus their new. She said shouldn't we be the ones helping them? She was fine with them bringing in ideas, but she didn't understand why they hadn't brought them to her first. They hadn't thought to consult her. She said to me multiple times. Why are they coming up with all these private plans and meeting in secret committees? You were pissed about that totally. Yeah, because I was involved. I mean, why were you angry about that? Because here I am trying to build something with the school. Why didn't you just involve me? Why didn't you just tell me about it? Like

1 (32m 38s):
I felt like it was a secret. I don't know if it was a for wasn't

3 (32m 41s):
I'm invested in the school, like clearly. I've proven to you. I'm invested in the school and you couldn't tell us that you wanted to fundraise and

1 (32m 48s):
Front way

3 (32m 50s):
Rob and the new parents did tell the principal that they wanted to fundraise in a different way. But I mean felt like what about the rest of us? She felt like the PTA was ignored at that last meeting. I met went quiet. She told me she's just felt enraged and then embarrassed for feeling so enraged. I guess. I just threw a

1 (33m 11s):
tantrum

3 (33m 12s):
and I just didn't want to be a part of it which is not right, but I think again in the moment, I just Felt like you know, I was hurt

1 (33m 22s):
easy throw to the with the Tantrums thing. I saw

3 (33m 24s):
because that did not seem like a tantrum. That was no that was not a tantrum. I could have been a lot worse and I was really really trying to restrain myself. Yeah, I really was um,

1 (33m 33s):
that was really under control really really under control. It wasn't but it was really really under

3 (33m 38s):
control I asked was there another time Tantra? Yeah at home with my husband.

1 (33m 44s):
That's when I threw my tantrum

3 (33m 46s):
so it was tense among the parents. But this is a school for children. Does it matter if the adults were not getting along or who controls which pot of money? Yes. Yes. It did that's coming up after the break WBZ Chicago when our program continues support for This American Life comes from Squarespace make your new website stand out with Squarespace providing designer crafted templates that are mobile friendly and e-commerce ready all with award-winning customer service and Squarespace offers a new way to buy domains and choose from over 200 domain extensions start your free trial and receive a special offer on your first purchase at squarespace.com / American and use promo code American.

3 (34m 38s):
A dream is just a great idea. That doesn't have a website yet Squarespace think it dream it make it.

1 (34m 47s):
This American Life my hourglass today's program nice white parents kinda choppy Waters telling the story of parents

3 (34m 53s):
and their influence over the workings of one public school public school in Brooklyn called sis the school for international studies how to picks up now where she left off the school year moved forward Rob's fundraising committee moved forward with the French Embassy to plan the fundraiser. It was now being called a Gala the PTA move forward with parent volunteers to plan a Spring Carnival. It was being called the Spring Carnival. Quiet resentments locked in place. Here's Hannah. I was talking on the phone when nighttime, he's co-president on the PTA Susan most gir. She told me she was worried. The school is changing in ways that were damaging to the community. Susan is white herself, but she didn't come in with the new parents when she started her son was one of the only white kids in the school now Susan felt like they were all being written into a narrative.

3 (35m 44s):
That wasn't true that as is was a Add school before and now that the new white families had arrived it was being turned around.

1 (35m 53s):
It is noticeable. I think it is something that even my child has picked up on, you know, just like a very different, you know different feeling among some of the students and some of the parents you notice real sense again, and here they come to save our poor struggling school that couldn't possibly make it on its own without their money and their vision and we do not all feel that that is necessarily the case.

3 (36m 21s):
What do you feel? This was a long conversation the upset. She's not happy with the way the new parents are behaving. It was true a new narrative was taking hold that sis. It's not like the kids were talking about it all the time, but it was in the air and the kids were starting to pick up on who was valued and why in the cafeteria, I hear middle schoolers saying the French kids could kill someone and they get away with it upstairs in the high school. I'd hear kids complain. All the attention has shifted to the new middle schoolers.

3 (37m 1s):
We're being pushed aside and down in the library I meant

1 (37m 6s):
Grade boys white

3 (37m 7s):
boys you to SAS. They're sweaty from playing soccer and looking very small against their huge backpacks these boys, even at 11 years old. They've absorbed the same messages that SAS wasn't so good before it was a bad school. The kids wouldn't pay attention and they had like garlic zone out every little thing and I bet they learned very

1 (37m 32s):
little and now was just now Now this generation with us. I think we're doing a lot

3 (37m 39s):
better and I think that we're learning. I must faster Pace he and his friends. They've turned the school around. That's what he's learning. It's going to be one of like the top choices like already in like the book. They when you're applying to Middle Schools, you get like a book sort of like on statuses and stuff. And I think the school is actually really high up in the statuses. Nobody calls it the book on statuses. They call it a directory of schools with info like enrollment numbers for different schools test scores and special programs. But I love that he calls it the book on statuses because this is what happened at as is the school had a bad reputation among white families and then suddenly it was in demand its status had changed because of the white kids a powerful draw for way families into any school is other white families once you have a critical Massive weight kids you pass what one city calls a bliss point.

3 (38m 40s):
This is a real thing researchers study how many white kids are needed at a school to make other wait families feel comfortable choosing it that number the Bliss point this 26% that fall late families were crowding. The school tour is at SAS not because the test scores have improved the new scores hadn't even come out yet. But because the other wait families made them feel blissfully. Comfortable, of course, the thing that made the new white parents comfortable coming SAS in the first place was the promise of a French program.

3 (39m 20s):
They want in French and they got French. So now all the 6th 7th 8th and 9th graders are learning French. It wasn't a true dual language program where kids learned in French for half a day or whatever that first year. Most of the friends is happening in the after. Go program you sign up for a regular after-school stuff, like culinary or soccer drama and it would be conducted in French.

1 (39m 52s):
Okay, we're in the auditorium and it's

3 (39m 54s):
sweet. The kids are on stage rehearsing this play. They wrote in French. It was like they're having fun, but I can't help feeling like there's something off balance about this most of the kids doing this drama program seemed to be native French speakers, but not all a sixth grader named Maya is standing to the side of the stage script in hand waiting for. Line

1 (40m 18s):
for me is like that weird because I have no idea what they're saying. Yeah, even even in the play that you've been practicing. You don't know what they're saying. He had another think so. Yeah, but sometimes when teacher talks in French to the class, I don't understand and do you figure it out or is it like confusing

3 (40m 41s):
so she's excited. She's grinning watching the other kids on stage. She's hanging out with her friend Constance. My eye gets up to deliver her lines.

1 (40m 51s):
Oh, you did wrong. Yeah. Wait, what did you just say? I don't know. I'm

3 (40m 59s):
Constance a native French speaker tells Maya. You said the wrong thing Constance corrects her pronounces it for her.

1 (41m 12s):
Like I can't see

3 (41m 14s):
mine says I can't and her friend says I'll do it for you.

1 (41m 18s):
Okay, I'll just assume as you know, she's already

3 (41m 22s):
learning another language is not new to Maya

1 (41m 25s):
May - speaks Arabic and my mom's Turkish and now you're learning French. Yes, so confusing but he languages and same time. Yeah.

3 (41m 41s):
When the new weight parents ask for a dual language French program at SAS principal juman said, yes sis was supposedly an international school, but she told me they didn't really have a lot of international programming. So it seemed like a good idea to her but there was no school wide debate about it or consensus the community didn't decide what if they had more than a third of the families that SAS are Hispanic. What if the Dual language program was? Vanish or Arabic 10% of the students speak Arabic if they had made a different choice if SAS had a dual language Arabic program Maya would be teaching Constance how to read her lines.

3 (42m 24s):
She be the one explaining the cultural references and teasing her friend about her terrible accent. She'd be the one translating the teacher stage directions. There was money for a French program, which meant that at SAS French had value Arabic didn't Spanish didn't that's something Maya is learning at school along with

1 (42m 46s):
her French script.

3 (42m 53s):
From the very beginning I me and the others had insisted on three things from the new parents and the fundraising committee that the gala fundraiser. They were planning with the French Embassy would number one be open to everyone number two take place at the school and number three be free. Then four weeks before the gala the PTA asked for an update an apparent named Deb showed up a mom to a new sixth grader part of Rob's fundraising committee.

1 (43m 23s):
So I will start with the fact that I had a nice conversation with Teresa brief. Is it Fabrice Fabrice? Yeah

3 (43m 32s):
Deb volunteered early on to help organize the party and she tells everyone I met with our partner Fabrice at the French Embassy and the event can't

1 (43m 42s):
The

3 (43m 42s):
school the embassy won't be able to draw their supporters to Brooklyn. It'll be at the cultural Services building on the Upper East Side Manhattan 45 minutes away.

1 (43m 54s):
I apologize if I'm saying things that you guys already know but I didn't know some of this info so it was good. But the event is really it's their event. It's not really our event. Oh, it's their event that Susan with the oh

3 (44m 11s):
Maurice liens. Forward elbows on the table. I me is not here. She knew the meeting would be almost entirely about fundraising and she sitting this one out Maurice is now concentrating on Rob who turns to Deb and says in what sense is at their event. They make the rules she's as

1 (44m 31s):
with our input but there are certain things that are not flexible. The biggest thing is nobody will be allowed in at the door. You have to be on a list. Have to RSVP you have to be on the list all names

3 (44m 47s):
security. It's a government building after all

1 (44m 50s):
he sends out the invitation to 22,000 people on his mailing list. So now making it a free event is a problem because now we're inviting 22,000 people for free to drink wine and eat food that may not have any interest in us. So we thought the best thing to do would be a suggested donation. Ian can't afford to go. Yeah,

3 (45m 15s):
that's Rob asking to give a variant which is how about we have a separate invitation for our people that doesn't ask for any money rob seems to be picking up on the instant irritation in this room and he's adding many variants to dubs

1 (45m 31s):
report modified version or just Clarity that everybody in this community. He won't they'll be one invite it will say the same fit. So I suggest that I suggested. Go ahead. We're outside. Even if we simply put cover note saying no charge, you know, we want you to come join us our community, right? But on the invite it will say suggested donation then if you want to however, we want to forward it. We can say that but they will only do one invites

3 (46m 0s):
Deb hasn't been able to make previous PTA meetings. So all Deb knows she got an email from the fundraising committee at our kids new school, which she assumed was part of the PTA. Volunteering her time a ton of her time to organize a huge event. She does not understand that the email list. She's on is for a separate fundraising committee that just became even more unpopular with the official PTA leadership. I think I stopped moving watching Deb. It's so tense. She's like a porcupine who's just wandered into a balloon store the serving wine water and then French hors

1 (46m 39s):
d'oeuvres as far as the auction. A couple of cleanses we have restaurants. We have a soccer camp. We have vacation rental in California. We got a couple hair salons very few from the community here. And that's really what I wanted to talk about from the parent Community or yeah Geographic Community parent community and Geographic

3 (47m 3s):
Community Deb says, I her kids elementary school. They got a lot more donated items from parents. She tells the room you can ask at the restaurants you go to to if they do gift certificates the salon your employers you'd be surprised what people can offer just

1 (47m 18s):
ask, you know, then that's what they would like my friends and my most of my friends so, you know, they're all in other schools and just new here. I don't really know many people. So the only people I've been able to reach out to the 36 on Rob's email address and then and a quarter of them gaves of donated something already like found something. So I'm telling you that house and say

3 (47m 42s):
The county is

1 (47m 43s):
gorgeous 4 bedroom 3 baths beautiful.

3 (47m 49s):
I think about a PTA meeting a few months before where I wedged. I Me Gently explain to one of the new parents why it might be hard for some families to throw in five dollars for classroom supplies that even being asked to donate can feel alienating some people in this room seem to be experiencing this whole thing as a routine update about Public School volunteering Others look like someone who's walked into the wrong room and is now looking around the friends. They came with for affirmation. We're in the wrong room, right? How do we get out usually get more

1 (48m 24s):
tickets to shows games things like I've gotten Broadway tickets, but I haven't got anything in the ticket Arena Knicks have a contact at the Nets. Like I'm going to reach out Dad. Yeah, they always go. Everybody wants to go to a game. Always somebody and they also make great Christmas gifts. And that's the other thing. We're we're lacking is actual items. We used to have a parent while we still have the parent but I'm trying to my school

3 (48m 54s):
there were two Tiffany and we

1 (48m 56s):
always had some beautiful Tiffany pieces are you know, coach bag some products makes it look nice.

3 (49m 9s):
It's been a small chunk of that meeting occupied by an admittedly sentimental thought just looking around the room was kind of incredible people with homes and Sonoma and people who live in public housing sitting together at a long wooden table in the library of a public school that they all share that never happens and I didn't want them to mess it up. But

1 (49m 33s):
of course they are

3 (49m 35s):
this is not something we have a lot of practice. And New York City has one of the most segregated school systems in the country white parents here have very little practice sharing Public Schools. Maybe this is all to be expected white parents will charge ahead will sometimes be careless secretive or entitled in response parents of color. Will sometimes be cautious or distrustful defensive. These are well established patterns repeated over Generations. It's Easier for us to continue operating on separate tracks because it's what we already know how to do.

1 (50m 18s):
The guy from the French Embassy apparently has a mailing

3 (50m 21s):
list of 22,000 people in the New York area 300 people RSVP to the gala for SAS. I couldn't believe it

1 (50m 30s):
and I couldn't believe that one of them was I me lovely. I need Maurice and Susan carpooled together to the Upper East Side.

3 (50m 42s):
It's winter Central Park is across

1 (50m 44s):
the street. It's cold. I mean told me she decided she needed to be a

3 (50m 48s):
grown-up and come they got stuck in traffic. So they're rushing up the

1 (50m 52s):
sidewalk. The cultural Services building is Ivy covered with columns. The doors are wrought iron. The entryway is marble. A huge marble staircase winds up the side of the room leader. I look up the architectural style Italian Renaissance. The lasso style. It's a palace.

3 (51m 24s):
There are people Milling sampling

1 (51m 26s):
17 different cheeses. I don't recognize anyone else from the school who are these people who have chosen to come out on a

3 (51m 33s):
weekday evening for a fundraising event for a not prominent or

1 (51m 37s):
well-known at all public school in Brooklyn involved with the school, but my wife Is involved with I started asking people how they heard about the event and what right here tonight actually an invitation by my wonderful French Professor a lady named Barbara tells me she's never heard

3 (51m 55s):
of SAS like most people here, but she loves French and she loves Paris and it sounded like a fun night with other people who do

1 (52m 1s):
too she goes to France every year October is my says long, but that they actually I found this of sober too warm. But I like it when it's a nice fall crisp and you wear your scarf will fool. Ah, I

3 (52m 19s):
enjoy a person who likes to talk where you can just get on the ride and sit back Barbara is definitely that kind of person

1 (52m 26s):
and my apartment in Paris is sort of confused. Sometimes I say am I in Gramercy Park or at my own son's room and to play. It's got a similar Ambience of being a neighborhood. It's great. Have you been Oh my God, she hasn't been to Paris Barbara's looking around for her

3 (52m 46s):
French teacher to tell her the news

1 (52m 49s):
berbers teacher. It turns out heard about

3 (52m 51s):
this evening the same way. Most people here

1 (52m 53s):
did she was invited by this man the briefs for the school for international studies. We are hoping we will raise $100,000 each year for the next seven years since Grease John Law works for the cultural

3 (53m 8s):
Services arm of the French Embassy. He tells me he's fundraising for or dual language programs in public schools because his mission is to promote French language and culture.

1 (53m 18s):
He called it soft power which I was kind of surprised. You said out

3 (53m 21s):
loud since I associate that with something we do in developing countries not something you're allowed to do in American public schools

1 (53m 29s):
after Fabrice and I

3 (53m 30s):
talked I walked into the main room and immediately saw

1 (53m 34s):
Maurice Maurice was so skeptical of this whole Embassy thing, but there he is at a table selling raffle tickets.

3 (53m 42s):
Because I me cheerfully raising money for a program neither of them ever wanted at their school.

1 (53m 48s):
We have wrestling walk to every airline tickets to friends one blue tickets going to win. It could be yours Maurice amiable as ever is

3 (53m 58s):
trying and mostly failing to convert ticket sales into social connections.

1 (54m 3s):
He asks

3 (54m 3s):
everyone. So if you win, when are you thinking of going? Oh, you're going anyway

1 (54m 9s):
for Easter. Oh nice. How's the weather? Is there any stuff? Yes, I am from Friends rather than Easter good fantastic. I'm at that before we do it. I have a question. Can I from here from these tickets by some things to go from Paris to Marseilles when I'm leaving no Barbara from Gramercy Park the woman who loves fall in Paris

3 (54m 35s):
wanders across the marble floor toward the raffle table

1 (54m 39s):
beside where I'm you sitting and I thought No, Hi, how are you? You're one of the parents of a bilingual student. She's not bilingual, but she does not go to the school. She will be bilingual eventually eventually. What a wonderful thing. Are you pleased with the program? It's so important to learn another language. It opens the world for you. And what is your name? And I was just telling on a I go to Paris which I do every year it is cool and it's cooler because I can speak the language and you have entree into the society not totally one will never have total Andre but you can interact with your neighbors you can interact in a restaurant you can interact at the dry cleaner at the supermarket and they so appreciate an American who can speak French.

1 (55m 42s):
Yes. Yes and the language is beautiful and

3 (55m 45s):
I mean stress looking around Maurice moves closer and leans in to hear why his wife is doing that nervous

1 (55m 52s):
laugh as Barbara explains to

3 (55m 54s):
I me a Puerto Rican woman that being bilingual makes a person more sophisticated

1 (56m 1s):
I meet is exceedingly polite Paris is a loadstar and if you really want to enjoy it, you've got to speak the language. There's a pleasure. That entire conversation. I mean ever mentioned the Barbara that she does speak another language Spanish leader. I asked her why she shrugs it off. No, just let her talk. Okay those. All right. So you remember when you were telling me about the silent tantrum that you're having? How would I know if that was happening? You wouldn't only my husband would if I'm throwing a silent transform he would know if I'm throwing a silence answer was that happening right now?

1 (56m 48s):
No, not right. Now. I mean turns her back to her husband facing me and behind her Maurice is looking right at me nodding vigorously. Yes.

3 (57m 8s):
So here we were in our fancy clothes on the upper east side of Manhattan raising money for a French program at an utterly normal

1 (57m 14s):
Brooklyn Public School that was already weird. But the toast the

3 (57m 20s):
toast were when the cognitive dissonance of the evening really kicked in for me the grease steps up onto the marble

1 (57m 27s):
staircase and clinks his glass announces. It's time to celebrate what we've created and raise some money it takes Some of it is it takes dedicated principal. She's here with us. It takes yes. Yes. Yes.

3 (57m 43s):
He pretends to make two principal jumman.

1 (57m 48s):
It's so nice to see all of you and I think you know, the number one thing is I think all of us standing here believe in public education and believe that all possess one by one people are talking about equality and

3 (58m 1s):
diversity and community in the meaning of public education. Here at the cultural Services palatial Palace full of white people.

1 (58m 12s):
So I went on the sixth grade trip eleven-year-olds going overnight trip up in the Catskills. I would not recommend doing that. So Rob gives a toast about that time. He went on the overnight

3 (58m 23s):
trip, it starts off, okay, but then veers into strange and sort of cringy territory. Then a ropes course 40 feet up looking down

1 (58m 34s):
below me. We're that diverse group of kids. They were diverse kids bullying me making sure that I when I jump they would actually cushion my fault that day. Each of those kids is going to climb up that pole and was going to have the same opportunity and the same Challenge and it made me think that that's what this school is about. It's about the opportunity to do the international Baccalaureate. The challenge of it is about the opportunity to explore French and the challenge of it for all kids, you know, and it's

3 (59m 1s):
not agree with Rob. It's great to give kids equal access. Opportunity but what they're being given access to our the opportunities that Rob and the other way parents care about

1 (59m 17s):
downstairs. I've been Susan I'm he's PTA co-president on a bench by herself. She's near the band drinking wine looking a little dumbstruck ask if she's okay. This

3 (59m 29s):
is something else she says and then she adds it's

1 (59m 32s):
just hard to explain how this is a public school fundraiser.

3 (59m 43s):
When the founder of American public education Horace Mann laid out his vision for public schools back in the day. He rode his horse around Massachusetts Podium to Podium and his pitch was common schools would make democracy possible. They would bind us to one another indoctrinate us. Give us the skills and tools we need for Democratic living. Public Schools, he believed would be the great equalizer rich and poor would come together and develop what he called fellow feeling and in doing so quote obliterate factitious distinctions in society for that to happen. You need everyone in the same school together at SAS.

3 (1h 0m 26s):
They've gotten that far everyone was in the same school together, but there was no equalizing We can be in the same school together and not be equal just like we can be in the same country together. It's not enough. After the gala money poured into SAS and more white families enrolled their kids at the school. But in the years after that there was a backlash and as is changed in ways that made Rob question himself. He wondered if you'd made mistakes. He told me he thought they all wanted the same thing for the kids. He just didn't know. Not knowing that happens a lot with white parents most of us.

3 (1h 1m 9s):
We don't understand the building's we walk into. We don't know what came before. I looked into the history of this school and I learned that this wasn't the first time white parents showed up here white parents have been involved all along all the way back to the very beginning of this school half a century ago doing the same kinds of things. I just seen it happens again. And again white parents wielding their power without even noticing like a guy wandering through a crowded store with a huge backpack knocking things over every time he

1 (1h 1m 44s):
turns Horace Mann believed Public Schools would make us equal but it doesn't work.

3 (1h 1m 56s):
I'm not sure how to fix that. But I want to lay out the story the whole story of this one American public school because what I am sure of is that an order to address inequality in our Public Schools, we are going to need a shared sense of reality

1 (1h 2m 14s):
at the very least. It's a place to start. How did you feel while admission is behind it takes up in the other episodes in the series nice white parents. It's produced by our colleagues who made the serial podcast with and distributed by the New York Times episodes 1 & 2 are out right now and I say episode 2 is a completely different kind of story about a different and very idealistic group of white parents. Right when the school is founded. You can find nice white parents wherever you get your podcast.

1 (1h 2m 54s):
gonna swab Believe Me Over The Twelve colors. It's about who's Yelp are well represented a was produced by Julie Snyder with editing by Sarah Cain igneel drumming and me editorial consultant from Rachel Christianity viewing fact-checking by been Phelan Stone Nelson mix the show special. Thanks to Dave and Nicole Hannah Jones Scott's our grid Jackie carrier and money Garcia. Well, we still haven't figured out how to fit their show into an episode of our show with production help from that tyranny and Catherine brain. And how This American Life still go to public radio stations by PRX the public radio exchange support for This American Life consumed hey.com.

1 (1h 3m 38s):
He is a new take on email allowing you to screen emails just like you can screen calls give someone the thumbs up and they're allowed in thumbs down and you never hear from them again. Try it for free @ H ey.com. Thanks as always to our programs co-founder. Mr. Troy Valentina, you know on a vacation he spotted some Dolphins, but do don't get get him started on dolphins. He is not into them is like weird because I have no idea what they're saying. Yeah, I'm Ira Glass. That's next week. We want stories This American Life.

3 (1h 4m 28s):
Next we're going to podcast of This American Life. So the Uber drivers in Kenya went on strike. What are you able to pay them more of the money that comes in one of the strikers pointed out that the tough thing about an Uber strike is the guys who kept driving got surge pricing because of fewer cars on the road. They made extra money can't be duper

1 (1h 4m 49s):
the some of the drivers. No way

3 (1h 4m 52s):
that next week on podcast on your local public

1 (1h 4m 55s):
radio station.