2 (1s):
Atticus was very cetera with a quick message before we start Today's Show. So if you heard last week show you heard that we played a story from our new podcast which is made by our co-workers had cereal if you haven't heard the podcast itself. I just want to say it has everything you expect from that team good storytelling done by the people who make the most popular podcast in the history of podcasting Hannah jumpy wallet who hosts captures incredibly candid and surprising moments and scenes on tape and because it's cereal It's just a great story that stretches over six decades all these people who come across two or three dimensionally in this one school. It's often very funny. I have been sitting in on edits of this thing for months telling friends how exciting the show is what Hannah finds just feels very new and I'm thrilled that it's finally out for you to hear.

2 (51s):
So just saying episode 3 just came out the podcast is called nice white parents made by our co-workers at cereal distributed by the New York Times get it wherever you get your podcast. Okay, that's all here's the new shop. Support for This American Life comes from Capital One Capital one's banking app lets you manage your money anytime

1 (1m 14s):
anywhere

2 (1m 15s):
Capital One. This is banking reimagined. What's in your wallet Capital One and a Support for This American Life comes from indeed. The most visited job site in the world indeed can get you the important higher you need just like they have 4 over 3 million businesses for a special offer visit indeed.com American terms and conditions apply offer valid through September 30th. A quick warning. There are curse words that are unbeaten today's episode of the show. If you prefer a beep version, you can find that at our website This American Life dot-org.

2 (1m 55s):
From WBEZ Chicago, it's This American Life. I'm Sean Cole sitting in for Ira Glass and our show today is about rules and when it might be okay to break them when it's even right to break them about a year ago summer 2019. My friend Benjamin Walker was in Nairobi in Kenya working on this project with some folks from the London School of economics and about four days into his trip. He found himself downtown idly walking past this big huge Recreation Area called Uhuru Park. And boom there was the protesters how many of them were there? They like 300 is what 300 people just a mass of people like men and the thing they were protesting was Uber.

2 (2m 43s):
They were Uber drivers on strike. Like I said 2019 you might remember there were a lot of uber strikes all over the world around this time Uber had been in Kenya for about four years and these drivers have the same complaint that All of the company wherever it's gone Uber makes too much off the rides they make too little they wanted more of the pie and they were mad Benjamin waded into the crowd of Strikers with a microphone because that's what he does. He hosts a podcast you might have heard of called Benjamin Walker's theory of everything and this story was right up his alley he's done lots of stories about the gig economy and its discontents. This one driver. Jafar said one thing that would get them more money is rules more rules.

2 (3m 24s):
It is just about like Elizabeth number one number two regulations number three regulations. We need regulations from the government because when you are regulated, you

1 (3m 34s):
cannot come over here make money go to you New

2 (3m 38s):
York Stock Exchange

1 (3m 40s):
flow to your flow to your whatever

2 (3m 42s):
IPO and invest the Billionaire's come and take. Yeah, and when we have regulations, you will never see a driver working 18 hours a day. I will together. How do you win? That's what I want. How you win solidarity? That was another driver their solidarity means everyone participating in the work stoppage except from what Benjamin saw that week. There were plenty of other Uber drivers still at working. In fact, even as they were all standing there 300 strong protesting against Uber. So there is like a road that goes through this part of the park.

2 (4m 25s):
And some guy Uber driver decided to go through the protest through the protest. Yeah, and they know he's an Uber driver how he has like the little Uber sign in his window. You have something. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah and they form his car and then they let the air out of the tires.

1 (4m 52s):
That's

2 (4m 52s):
how we're gonna deal with that. Let the car sit down. That's all we do is take us and what did the guy do he was he seemed pretty upset he kind of sat there and shock for a while and stayed in his car. He got out eventually even some of the protesters help them move it out of the way. Of course. He's still our brother we We fight them and we help them at the same time.

1 (5m 24s):
Yes,

2 (5m 25s):
this is one of two Uber drivers that tried to drive through the middle of the protests while Benjamin was there and one of the protesters said. Oh, the reason they're still driving is that with all of us on strike? The surge pricing kicked in the ones who keep at it make more money, which is to say, it's hard to beat Uber at this game House Always Wins. But then as they all stood around discussing the one of the drivers told Benjamin about a kind of work around they had up their sleeve a cheat code. So, all right now I have a question for you. So the last two days I took some Ubers I told you, you know when I was yeah, so I'm here till Thursday. I'm not going to take another over.

2 (6m 7s):
What am I going to get it? What do I do just find a taxi driver at the hotel like and he's like, oh, you know you can just go Cara.

1 (6m 14s):
Got you guys. This is a we normally call it. It's our language Carla. You know, I

2 (6m 20s):
get Ryder you look at the estimate you switch off the app you go in estimate. So which means we will get will not get the commission. So just to be clear imagine you request a ride and it automatically shows you how much it's going to cost and when the driver shows up you say to them. How about I hit cancel on the app and just give you the estimate in cash cutting out the middleman. That is what

1 (6m 45s):
Kaguya,

2 (6m 46s):
so if I was to say out to a driver, I want to go Cara without that how I would say, yes. Yes. Can you go cannula

1 (6m 55s):
they deliver we want to go canoeing or camera you got that

2 (6m 58s):
friend. Yes, I'm good. And you hold on wait? Wait. Hi. So this ride Hey, where's my red? My ride is 380. Okay. I want to give you 400 and we go Cara and I cancel. Okay. Alright cool, so I canceled it. Yep. So how did it feel once you once you did that it felt great on the one hand. It solves all of my problems for the rest of this trip. But also I almost feel like I've gotten the answer to my question because I wanted to know how you win and there's something about going career which is basically using the tools against the company.

2 (7m 52s):
I mean, it's great and it's subversive. One of the protesters referred to it as economic sabotage IE until we get more rules governing Uber. We're going to break some. I asked super if I could talk to a company rep in Kenya about going Kura a spokesperson for all of sub-Saharan Africa wrote back saying in part repeat canceling by either a driver or Rider could be flagged by our fraud technology, which will then result in an investigation. She also said it's not safe to go off app for the passengers or the drivers which for the record some of the drivers will tell you too that they don't like to do it because having a record of the trip is safer for them.

2 (8m 37s):
Course going under the radar like this isn't really anything that novel cab drivers in New York. Will sometimes say hey, how about I turn off the meter and you pay me in cash, but they don't have a name for it Benjamin and I both wonder, you know like Aurora. It's the name of a forest in Nairobi Carrera Forest, but none of the drivers Benjamin wrote with could really explain it beyond that. Okay. Don't know who came up with that name Emma, but then when I started calling around to drivers in the transport officials in Nairobi this funny thing happened Cuddle, right? Yeah, that's what the college all of them giggled when I said it like, oh that you want to know about that. How do you know about that?

2 (9m 18s):
And one of the drivers said, oh, you can go Kuru. He has quote

1 (9m 24s):
you guys. I don't know. I'm

2 (9m 30s):
one of them told me before Uber came to town those informal taxis that you haggle with a lot of them stationed themselves around Kuru. Best so now as a kind of catch-all phrase for paying any sort of driver under the table, that's the most rational explanation, but there was this other explanation that came from a driver who I'm calling Roger Federer a yes. I think I have a clue. It is 30 years old as a one-year-old son been driving since Uber first came to Kenya. He's also a graphic designer as a degree in business and it is worked in the hotel industry. He's done. A lot of things got really is a forest. So we assuming these are laws that we just got from the forest so Oh, it's quote unquote jungle jungle. Let me call it the Angela you're saying jungle law.

2 (10m 13s):
Yes jungle low. So

1 (10m 14s):
it's it's something not

2 (10m 17s):
allowed. And again, it's something not in the the constitution of uber something not in the laws of uber. Yes. I'm Jungle Love You from yourself? I say so if you Burr the authorities, then Carrera is sort of skirting the authorities. Yes, definitely got you and how does that F how does that feel when you're going coronavirus is using the app you see it's a nice feeling. Let me say that because you having an extra coin extra coin and you just feel like your work for it and you don't and nobody else deserves to get a shot of it. I can say it's you feel empowered in terms of you feel like you're open-minded interpret Nua entrepreneurial result being the company wants this and the class was this.

2 (11m 6s):
So what? You do you have to open up your mind and either to me there to take the decision to make an extra coin or probably to listen to the company and go home empty-handed right? It's up to you at that point. You have to make yes, it's up to an independent decision. Yes,

1 (11m 22s):
but it is breaking a rule.

2 (11m 24s):
Yes. It is. Yes it is. I mean, I guess I wonder if that factors into the decision-making. It's like well, I know it's a rule should I break this rule like we're supposed to follow rules and everything. Can you see at the end of the day the reason why you get up and decide to forget it to be this is at the end of the day you get home with something you see. So if you decide your priorities following rules, most of the days, you're going to get home empty-handed and you know, most of us young families. You see we have wives have kids in the house. So if you decide that you're going to be strict to the to the latter that you're going to follow all the rules believe you me your family is going through.

2 (12m 5s):
Sleep angry. It's not just empowering to break the rules. Sometimes sometimes it's necessary to break the rules for anyway, it feels like it is and today on our show. We have stories of people defying regulations violating the social contract to make a point and in one case to strike out against the inequities of a sixth-grade class, please stay with us act one. Bandit there is a moment this year when I watch someone Break The Rules right in front of me the most dramatic way dramatic is the operative word because it was during a performance.

2 (12m 50s):
It wasn't just in front of me. There were hundreds of people in the audience. This was during an event that I go to every year if I can make it on New Year's Day. It's a 10 hour long marathon of performances. I call it a marathon at the st. Mark's poetry project in a 200 year old church in lower Manhattan. So imagine Soaring cavernous Sanctuary with a Podium on the altar up front. Mostly the marathon is set up as a kind of turn. There are more than a hundred fifty people on the program and it's not just poetry readings but bands play and their choreographers and comedians. I've seen how do you Smith perform there and Philip Glass and everybody only gets two to three minutes each to read or play or whatever the time limits a big deal as they need to fit everybody in occasionally someone gets On stage in between X and tells everybody to keep it short.

2 (13m 43s):
Anyway, this sort of rules shattering moment that happened was not one of the famous has on stage. It was somebody I'd never heard of drum Ellis is a

1 (13m 52s):
composer performer and writer his recent work

2 (13m 56s):
Jerome Ellis composer musician, but he didn't have an instrument with him or even anything to read off of he just climbed up on stage stood in front of the mic and I have to admit I was really just looking down at my program and not paying attention. Then when he started talking. the Brazilian state of Mato Grosso to sue has a law mandating that cell phone companies offer a 50% and then he stopped talking.

2 (14m 46s):
Like for a while. And I think it was at this point that I looked up and saw him sort of staring wide-eyed maybe trembling a bit. I'm playing this in real time, by the way, normally I'd edit these silences down, but I wanted to give you a sense of how confusing this was it first and uncomfortable. fifty percent I had no idea what was going on.

2 (15m 25s):
So far he had said the Brazilian state of Mato Grosso. Do Sul has a law mandating that cell phone companies offer a 50% discount, too. And then you can hear he's doing these kind of little breathy clicks and pops. And I was like, oh, it's some performance art thing like cell phone companies spotty coverage in Brazil.

2 (16m 19s):
to the customers with 50% discount to their customers with And then he breaks into Portuguese, but you still be used nothing, but I saw enough Lucia that Falla customers with. Breaks in the timing and fluency of speech that is the customers who have speech impediments. Like myself, so that's what was going on. They have to the customer has to present Jerome has a stutter assign statement from a speech-language a significant one speech language.

2 (17m 12s):
speech language pathologist to prove their pathology I first encountered this law in a book about strange laws from around the world. The author of the book was mocking the law. But I see in the law and attempt to address. the issue of temporal accessibility temporal accessibility when it comes to when it comes when it comes when it comes to disabled speech.

2 (17m 57s):
So I was first invited to participate in This Magnificent event. I was struck by the two minute time limit. Which later became a two to three minute time limit? And I understood intuitively that the purpose of this time limit was to create as non-hierarchical is space as possible. but in removing one hierarchy the time limits introduces another a time limit assumes that all people have relatively equal access to time.

2 (18m 39s):
through this speech which is not true. Stuttering is very unpredictable. I can rehearse something as many times as I want, but I don't actually know how long it will take to say anything. Until I have to say it. What you just heard is about half of Jerome's performance as he performed at that night, like commentary notwithstanding the clocks in at about 5 minutes practically twice the length permitted itself. I'll play you the second half in a bit. But in just those five minutes, I'd gone from barely paying attention to being totally wrapped.

2 (19m 22s):
Everybody was the pauses continued some of them longer than what you just heard and in an enormous room packed with people. There was barely any other And I don't remember hearing a cough or paper Russell. We're all just kind of spellbound partly. I think because as drum set himself what was happening on stage seemed so very unpredictable. That's what it felt like in the audience and in the weeks and months since then I realized I just had all these questions for Jerome the way you wish you could call up the person who made the weird obscure movie. You just saw that you can't get out of your head or who wrote the book you just read. I just wanted to know how How he thought of what he did how it felt to do that Jerome's John Hi.

2 (20m 8s):
How are you? I'm doing well. So I call them on Skype. It's got friendly as face and haven't had a haircut in a while. Like everybody drum told me he got the idea after the director of The Poetry project sent him an email inviting him to perform and mention the time limit. I'm just reading that gave him this twinge of stress and I was like, I was like, I noted the stress and I was like, oh, I think it I'm interested in going. Towards that stress and like exploring that he says that confusion. I felt it first. That's what he was going for because it's so common for people to have that feeling upon meeting him. They don't know what's going on until he tells them it's not easy to bring hundreds of people simultaneously into an experience you live every day, but he managed it.

2 (20m 54s):
I also wondered if he had kind of improvised what he was going to say, but he says he wrote it all out ahead of time. We rehearsed it reading it off his phone while walking down the street which was way easier than reciting it on stage. He says what was the shortest amount of time that it took when you were preparing when you were rehearsing it, I would say I was like two and a half minutes two and a half minutes. Got it. Yeah, and that was important to him. He says to write something that someone who didn't stutter could recite within the time limit. So in that way he was simultaneously adhering to the rules and breaking them at the same time and since stuttering is unpredictable. Jerome says there was a chance the whole thing could have taken him only four minutes.

2 (21m 37s):
Then it was a funny situation where stuttering less might have made it harder for people to understand the point. He was trying to make I figured simply being on stage would make him more likely to stutter but Jerome says no, it's in fact quite soothing to be on stage because it's like, you know, it's like I actually feel that that I'm that I have the time and I can dive into some ways the stage the stage audience relationship is a more temporally accessible environment than other environments of verbal verbal furball verbal communication that I engage with like when he worked at the Columbia Law Library just to give you some background of his life offstage Jerome worked at the circulation desk and not only did he have to take in calls, but he had to transfer calls to other people.

2 (22m 39s):
So answering the phone that's one temporal expectation and then having to explain to someone else who's calling all the first persons on hold now, he's squashed between two temporal expectations. It was stressful. Also this show and radio in general is not usually an accessible environment for differently abled speakers. I'm leaving in a lot of Jerome stutters in the interview part of the story, but I'm still cutting out some of his pauses and repeats and mine for that matter as a group of professionals were biased toward more fluid stalkers. I became acutely aware of that while editing our conversation and just to let you know, I tried to quote-unquote clean up his answers as little as possible because I want to bring you The Jerome's daily experience to anyway, I think Jerome stuttered less than usual on the call with me because I know he stutters.

2 (23m 31s):
He says it helps to disclose it relaxes him. And then there are other subtler ways that he's able to tame it sometimes when he's talking to people sometimes I refer to it as my stutter, but sometimes I refer to it. As Visa under these stutter because to me stuttering is not bound to my body that it is a phenomenon that occurs between me and whoever I'm speaking to you. Like I like to think of it like it's something that we share and when Jerome's in a conversation with someone he stutters partly because the burden to talk smoothly is only on him exactly exactly one way of saying that's like, okay he's stuttering but there's another way that's like there is a They're happening, you know and we are both contending with it.

2 (24m 21s):
So the fact Lee and his talk at the Poetry project was that on a grand scale? That's what he wanted for each of us to shoulder a little of the weight of these stutter that was happening. The reason for those long silences on stage is something that I didn't know either Jerome's particular kind of stutter is sometimes called a glottal block the way he explains it when your vocal cords are at rest there apart. And then when you go to talk they come together and vibrate but sometimes Jerome's vocal cords gets stuck in the middle between being at rest and touching so he can still make little sounds with his teeth and tongue and lips but not his voice and talking to him on Skype the same thing would happen as when he On stage when the glottal block came he got this look kind of Frozen wide-eyed stare.

2 (25m 15s):
Like he was stunned except on stage. It was more dramatic his face would turn upward and I remember thinking to myself is that just effort. Is it fear? Yeah, and I know the look your You're speaking about yeah, it's like some stutters will their their body will in fact move a lot while they're setting their face will will move in certain ways. which week but I do sometimes but in general my my body response is actually is a freezing and am I and I saw breathing often to just like like it feels like everything stops for a second or five seconds so longer so part of it is that is that I'm freezing part of it feels like my body goes into a kind of Supplication or prayer?

2 (26m 10s):
Almost. I have a friend who once referred to it as watching. Watching the ask for the word. And wait, you know and wait for it to come wait for it to come. Yeah, and I meana because I often look up it's a very specific State. It's like there's some ways in which I like totally leave the room and I think that speaks to the the looking upward and I then just like I'll like I'll come back once the word arrives and it wasn't fear. He says he does have a lot of fears in his daily life taking too much of someone's time.

2 (26m 55s):
Not being able to order at Shake Shack when there's a line behind him. But this wasn't that if he was afraid of anything. It was falling back on the tactics. He usually uses to get around a stutter synonyms. For example, swapping out a word he's blocked on for one that's easier to say you don't want to do that on stage and I didn't realize that until now that I think that was the primary fear and I did do that like two or three times and I regretted it afterwards. Do you remember which words you did it on by any chance? Yes to their customers with so there's the Portuguese word with

1 (27m 33s):
veggie soup. You put you scoob you snot employees are so

2 (27m 37s):
which I had literally translated to in my text. I translated it. Translated it. Translated it. Translated

1 (27m 54s):
it.

2 (28m 5s):
Translated it. translated tutu

1 (28m 34s):
to disturbance

2 (28m 37s):
and as you just saw that word is it still is like very hard for me to say. So what I did in the performance was customers with I said brakes brakes brakes and the timing influence in the timing and fluency of speech and that was one that I I didn't like what I did that I like I what I wanted to do was what I had I just did with with you is just wait wait for the way before but it was especially especially Dee's they can be really painful. So I have five what did that one and especially with myself as soon as it happened like breaks to me that it doesn't capture what I wanted to capture our names particularly difficult.

2 (29m 19s):
Yes. Yeah. Yeah because there's no synonyms for them. You know Jerome blocks on his own name has since he was four years old when his stutter started. So now trying to say his name or any name. He says it's like he's for again. I even I even in some situations for a You years? I would say John John is my middle name, but very interestingly I then began settling on John and then I and then I will start saying Sean and because sometimes the sure sound is easy. Like like the just sound has a has a harder attack and also, you know, obviously Sean is just an incredibly beautiful name and that was really I mean, that was my that was my main reason for doing so was I well if I'm going to I'm going to choose a new name while I just go straight for the Just goes for the top man, you know and that's are suffering on that.

2 (30m 11s):
You know, I mean, I just find that that's so beautiful. It's like it's always outpacing me and the way you find that beautiful that it's outpacing you. Yeah. Yeah. I mean I find it painful to but I but I find it a deep Beauty in that. What is the beauty but for me, it's this quality that it's like the Sutter. It feels like this thing. That is so deeply. and Twine with my body my mind my emotions everything and yet I I can't figure it out or I can't grasp it and and even more so like when I think I have grass-fed I like when I think of outsmarted it even like by switching my name there's something about just How elusive it is.

2 (31m 8s):
The second half of your arms performance was just one sentence and took him four minutes and nine seconds to get through partly because it had a name at the beginning the black feminists. The sentence Begins the black feminist scholar kimberle Crenshaw once wrote and then a quote. Climbing on top of crenshaw's name alone. Took him about a minute 45 seconds. I haven't pause the recording of the performance by the way, it's still running underneath this. My chest was hurting so much time. And while I was doing I was like God should I just like give up and leave, you know, and I was like no.

2 (31m 49s):
I mean I've done that so many like I mean, there's so many moments in life where I just like I just stopped speaking because I just don't want to put in in the labor of finishing my thought or finishing my sentence. I was like, no I don't want to do that here. I wanted to show the audience the labor that's evolved. And this is labor that I often or sometimes won't put in the black feminist scholar. But it was around this moment that the feeling in the room started to change again. There was no more confusion, obviously.

2 (32m 30s):
And any concern or tension was gone to but famous scholar. By this point the importance of what Jerome was saying had landed on us. And the marriage between the thing he was saying and the way he was saying it. like a poem elongated so it just took us a little longer to catch up. kimberle Crenshaw once wrote I'm going to stop the recording for a second and just read you the quote. So you can sit with it during this last part. It goes treating different things the same can generate as much an inequality as treating the same things differently.

2 (33m 17s):
Did you feel the kind of punk rock to be doing that or like badass to be like? Yeah. I mean, I felt like it was an act of resistance. And like and like I'm as a musician myself the First music I studied really deeply was Jazz and I remember very distinctly when I was middle school that I would be I would have my jazz CDs at home and often they would be like four tracks because each track could be like nine minutes long. And then I remember like look at my friends CDs of a punk rock for example head as you mentioned and like, you know much shorter tracks. I remember I remember noticing that age in like thinking about what that meant and they would be this refusal to adhere to the length of a pop song for example, you know and for me there's always a racialized element there too that there's like a black resistance against certain structures of time that like know this track is 11 minutes long and like if you don't want to listen to it, then don't listen to it, but like like I'm like like we're like our Well, we're trying to achieve in this music is different in some ways than what a three minutes song is trying to achieve.

2 (34m 52s):
Treating treating treating treating treating treating treating treating. As a black person. I'm also thinking about the way that time and access to time is racially inflected. You know, there are there are many moments in the world when the treating a person of color is just not given as much time to speak treating at different things the same way.

2 (35m 52s):
May generate as much inequality as treating the same things in different ways. Thank you. To learn more about Jerome Ellis and his many projects visit Jerome Ellis.com.

2 (36m 36s):
That's je R om e e LL is.com. You can also follow him on Instagram. It's a delos to Rome coming up a story that perfectly encapsulates what my father always called the Golden Rule. Them that's got the gold makes the rules. It was a joke. Someone minute from Chicago public radio when our program continues. Support for This American Life comes from

1 (37m 5s):
Capital One. Welcome to banking

2 (37m 8s):
reimagined Capital One checking and savings accounts have no fees or minimums and a top-rated banking app that lets you

1 (37m 14s):
manage your money anytime anywhere

2 (37m 17s):
check on the account balance deposit checks pay bills and transfer money on the go. This is banking reimagined. What's in your wallet Capital One na member FDIC support for This American Life comes from indeed the most visited job site in the world with 73% of online job Seekers visiting indeed. Each month indeed can get you the important higher you need just like they have 4 over 3 million businesses indeed gives you full control and payment flexibility over your hiring you only pay for what you need. You can pause your account anytime and there are no long-term contracts for a special offer visit indeed.

2 (37m 59s):
I'm / American terms and conditions apply offer valid through September 30th. It's This American Life. I'm Sean Cole sitting in for Ira Glass. Today's Show made to be broken stories about regulations guidelines proprieties that people up end for some just cause as opposed to just cause Act 2 of our show today. It's all about the Jeffersons. When he was a kid comedian tone Bell was a rule follower, but there was one time he got into really big trouble broke the rules in a serious way and there's a Polaroid picture commemorating the moment and his family became one of those iconic photographs sort of family lore.

2 (38m 41s):
They just called it the Polaroid. He explained the backstory to produce her. Alma Baker went own started sixth grade at a new school. He got miss Dillard as his homeroom teacher His neighbor who are calling MP told him that's not the teacher you want. You want Miss Jefferson.

1 (38m 58s):
He definitely let me know that he had a better teacher but I still didn't know why I mean, I don't know if it was because she was young and it was mad but I quickly learned like why you want to miss Jefferson.

2 (39m 7s):
Why do you want Miss Jefferson

1 (39m 9s):
Miss Jefferson ran her own bank?

2 (39m 11s):
Yeah a bank. She was a math teacher and she gave out fake money to the kids when you did well on your homework or tests you durn what she called Jefferson box as in mystery. Person not Thomas, they came in denominations of 1 5 and 10 and were actually printed

1 (39m 28s):
there was definitely a Jefferson meant they were they were bills. They were straight up bills smaller than a DOT smaller than I like a real dollar bigger than Monopoly money, but it kind of had that feel of Monopoly money and it was I mean, it looked like I mean 12 year old money look like it look like money, you know, and I know I'm 99% sure her face was on

2 (39m 47s):
it. Tongue wasn't it? Mr. Jefferson's home room like MP who go to her homeroom four or five times a day, but he had her once a day for math. So we got to earn Jefferson bucks to you can also make them for good behavior like being quiet or helping her pass out papers.

1 (40m 3s):
I remember seeing one of my classmates like open open a door because one of those have like stuff in our hands that was like chivalrous. So like he end up getting some money for I was like, oh should you go open doors? I know you can you're opening doors. I got to know. I'm putting that on the Lego shit. I gotta go. Doors now, I mean she had to notice it.

2 (40m 21s):
So you're doing what?

1 (40m 22s):
Oh, you're going above and beyond on me yet. You're not gonna survive tables. You're not who you like and people's books out tables and then picking them up just so she can see a good deed and then you looking back out of like you see what I just did right

2 (40m 33s):
at the end of the week. You can cash or Jefferson box in at the Jefferson Market a little store Miss Jefferson set up at her desk here. You could buy an extra 10 minutes at recess as in everyone's coming inside and you're like, here's $5. I'm going to keep playing Red Rover by myself. Elf or you could buy school supplies cheap plastic toys, like little green army men and candy all sorts of candy. This was obviously the top seller the kids even ranked in order of

1 (41m 0s):
preference. So like, you know, the fun dips in the Blow Pops and the in the air heads were definitely like I want to say like a tactic any maybe Skittles like the long Jolly Ranchers and you can you can tell you could tell especially with the Jabs and bugs like if you only had two dollars this is This is this is the drawer she opens because that's the cheap candy. That's the cheap. You don't have enough like this. You gotta you gotta pick from this bullshit Gandy

2 (41m 27s):
Tony loved it. But then one day a few weeks into the school year. This thing happened that changed how Tom thought about the Jefferson bucks system and he couldn't get it out of his head. He was sitting with MP when he noticed something.

1 (41m 40s):
I mean, I remember him having like that plastic pencil case. That you know, you just you know pencils protractor, you know college, you know ruler and all this kind of stuff that you needed. He and he was he had so much money. He has so much money what that bag was used for turned into a wallet. I mean, it was just wads of Jefferson bucks. I remember him taking that out and it was almost like a secret cause he didn't want anybody to but like, you know, and he threw me a couple of dollars and I saw I was like, how do you have that much money? Like it blew my mind and then hearing Are made eleven dollars a day? I'm like you made eleven dollars today.

1 (42m 21s):
today It ain't even two o'clock here. You got more

2 (42m 26s):
time. Tony been working his ass off for weeks. And all he had was six bucks, which was a tiny fraction of what MP had tone was earning minimum wage and MP was Jeff Bezos. He had to really sit with it before you understood how this could be MP had Miss Jefferson for homeroom. And for math, which meant that he saw her four times throughout the day tone only sorry. Once for math, of course MP had way more Jefferson box

1 (43m 2s):
overseeing a like and being envious and being jealous and wondering how I do that and just like let me switch my energy up. I'll study more I'll be polite or I won't talk this class in much

2 (43m 15s):
tone tried all sorts of strategies to make money, but now that he saw the van the system. He couldn't unsee it. Everything was a reminder of how much more opportunity the kids in. Her homeroom had

1 (43m 25s):
it was almost like they had on fur coats and shit and and driving Cadillacs. It almost felt like it made him dress better. It was like they were in the capital and we were District 12. We're just poor people trying to make it and they are the Elite and did that make you mad so it may be so fucking my it made me so mad because because you don't know like, you know the rules and you know supposed to work, but then it doesn't work. But you see work for

2 (43m 55s):
others to town having money. Also meant something really important to him impressing girls. There was one girl in particular. He had a huge crush on we'll call her Natasha. She didn't even know tone existed, but he thought about her all the

1 (44m 11s):
time man Natasha. Her name was on the back of my notebook and stuff. She was active and just long hair brown skin just like beautiful and like her maturity level was up there to meet her hair was always does she always Who closes she just had the attention and you saw two dudes who were giving her attention and look man to be honest with you. They just They had money. They had Jefferson

2 (44m 36s):
books and what Boys by girls things with the Jefferson but

1 (44m 40s):
oh, yeah. Yeah, we call that tricking off. Yes. Oh, yeah. I mean you

2 (44m 44s):
definitely Tone is 12 trying to figure out the whole girl thing for the first time and desperate to impress them. Luckily. There were other ways to make money besides. Mr. Jefferson's class and way more ways to spend it. One of tones classmates explained to me that because Miss Jefferson store was only open on Friday. The kids came up with an underground economy of their own a black market fueled by Jefferson box that was open every day of the week. You could buy anything there.

1 (45m 15s):
Somebody had Jello or chocolate or their desert or like hey Maggie three books for the half of your slice of pizza on Friday. I mean, somebody might say you a pencil half price will meet Jeff is gonna sell them as Jefferson might have been selling the pencil A. A pencil for two dollars and you might be able to get it for one. But like and now I mean, it's it became a legal tender basically throughout sixth grade.

2 (45m 36s):
The kids did a lot of shady things all under the table like kids amidst Jefferson's class would pay kids in Miss Dillard's 10 to 20 Jefferson bucks to do their homework. That's how the black market worked. If you had money if you didn't

1 (45m 49s):
you got to figure out how to leverage what they need so that you can get something that you're not getting which is the Jefferson book. I mean there were moments where I remember if Not paying attention to your books. You might have a textbook stolen and you're going to need five different books and get your book back.

2 (46m 10s):
By December the lopsidedness The Miz Jefferson system was clear to everyone in Miss Dillard's homeroom. They complain to each other about

1 (46m 18s):
it. It is like this shit is rigged that something is and I don't remember who it was but I remember a lot of us being like yo, what do we need to

2 (46m 27s):
do? Did you ever say that to her?

1 (46m 32s):
Yeah, we brought it up of how to how do we do more of you're not seeing it. I'm trying my best and is like name and now we got it. We got to have a town hall

2 (46m 43s):
a kid brought it up one day in math class and several others including tone immediately jumped on board. I wasn't able to find Miss Jefferson to get her side of this but the way tone remembers it Miss Jefferson shut this discussion down if they wanted more money. She said they needed to try Period end of discussion

1 (47m 1s):
it's like a man. Everybody's the same opportunity and it's like no they don't. Well you got to work harder and you got to try harder. And then after I'm say months of doing that nothing still nothing. and I just had this moment where I was like I I gotta I gotta Rob the Jefferson Bank. Like I'm going I'm going there's no other way.

2 (47m 35s):
Again tone was a rule follower. His dad was really strict. So this was wildly out of character, but his bertold brecht said in a very different context who's the greater criminal the man who robs a bank or the man who found someone Tom figured if she can make believe a bank and he could Rob that make-believe bank without any consequences

1 (47m 56s):
and and then so I kind of just I mean, I guess I could just kind of started case in the You know Miss Jefferson has actions and you know a new we left a window open a new we had at this point. We had a right before lunch. I knew where she kept under where the store was. I know where the money was so at lunch so I decided you know couple days before I'm going to start going to the bathroom during lunch. I will go to the bathroom come back spin like a little extra time come back, you know for a few days just so this wouldn't look awkward. He's

2 (48m 26s):
he's testing out how long he can be away without people noticing Miss Jefferson's class. This room is locked during lunch, but she is a window that faces the courtyard his plan is to slip in through the window grab some money and head

1 (48m 39s):
out. So I was like, okay today's the day, you know, I go I go to the bathroom and I ask that you know, she's not going to the bathroom real quick. I don't feel well

2 (48m 47s):
he goes straight to his Jefferson's window in the courtyard pushes it open and climbs in his heart is racing and then he goes over to the one place every kid knows has forbidden. His teacher's desk he knows Actually, we're Miss Jefferson keeps the money in the bottom right drawer. He opens the door and sees the metal cash box. It's

1 (49m 8s):
unlocked and so open the box up and you know, I mean just money like I mean it just even in that moment. I was like, oh this is this was like a Scrooge McDuck moment. Like I am swimming in Jefferson Buck, but like you can't get overzealous. Right like because if you take everything that's definitely noticeable. She have to take enough to feel comfortable but not enough to set off any. the alarms and your open up pop the pop the box and grabbed out a nice I mean I mean, I'm a say an inch thick of Jefferson bucks. I must say like an inch like a nice a nice one probably equivalent to what MP had in his in his you know in his his his pencil holder and you know, so I split that in half and then I stuffed my pockets and I'm like, I gotta get the fuck out of here

2 (49m 58s):
tone is running out of time. He does a sweep of the room then he exits through the classroom door and locks it behind him.

1 (50m 5s):
I'm good. I'm home free. So I close the door a back out doors locked and I'm starting to walk around the corner. And I've run into Natasha like blew my mind. Also. I'm also like why is she in the hallway? And I mean she looks at me she knows I'm not supposed to be out here. But also she's looking at me like why are you and Miss Jefferson's class? And I mean I swear to you. She just looks me up and down and just notices my pockets because I mean I got dollar bill. I got Jeff some bucks. I mean just popping out of my pockets man and like and she just looked me up and down and then she was like, oh I'ma need some of that and I'm like, oh my God, like I this girl who I'm infatuated with like one is robbing me and but like now I got to not get caught.

1 (51m 2s):
I have to give this bitch hush money so I can so you know, I gave her I think I gave him a whole left pocket if I'm not mistaken, I think because it was already already split in half and you know, we're talking about the lunch. I'm like, hey just do not say nothing about the are we good? They give me Justin just like hey man, you know, we kind of had a cone of silence like can we keep this shit a secret? Come back in the Dells class about time. We start the next period I mean, it's I mean everybody knows about it. I heard you heard you took Jefferson bugs. Like I didn't take any jobs and I was at lunch with you the whole time. Was it a bathroom? That's about it.

1 (51m 42s):
So you start to see the eyeballs come at you like a man too many people know

2 (51m 46s):
within no time word spreads to miss Jefferson and then the principal or vice-principal tone can't remember which

1 (51m 54s):
and they pulled me into the hallway Ms. Gillard comes out there. Like what were you doing lunch? And I was like, I went to the bathroom I asked for permission. I know like she didn't go anywhere else. I was like, nope. I just went and then I and I came back and I like, okay. So what's in what's in your pockets? And I was like nothing and then it's still in your pocket. I didn't have time to put it up. Oh, you are the worst criminal of time. I couldn't my plan was getting foiled in front of my in front of my eyes because I had too many eyeballs on me to take it out of my pocket. There's nothing I can do. It's like as I feel like I was wearing a wire and people knew about out it

2 (52m 31s):
even with the money as evidence tone still won't confess. So they turn up the heat into the hallway walks Natasha.

1 (52m 39s):
Yes, she comes out and she's like what sound coming out of me Miss Jefferson room, and I was like what? You like it was it was a real like I paid that's why I gave you the money not to talk like especially to these people. That's that's why I gave it to you. Like if he was gonna tell the whole time. I was just taking the whole kept all of it. Like if this is how it was going to end. Like that's what the money was for. And I go to the office and it's our it's either a principal or vice-principal but it's definitely miss Jefferson. And

2 (53m 13s):
did she ask you

1 (53m 14s):
anything? She was definitely disappointed. She was deathly disappointed and then you know, she's you know, the why why would you do that? And you know, and I was real and I was like look man, it wasn't to be malicious. It was like we struggling out here. I'm sick of seeing people with three chocolate milks and five Blow Pops and ring pops always kind of shit, and I can't do nothing. It's like well, there's a better way to go about it. I tried that and you can't tell me that you don't remember we we we kind of all talked about it and I've tried everything. I've tried what you said to do. I've tried to make better grades. I've tried to be more chivalrous. I've tried to not get my name on the book. I've tried all these things and they don't work.

1 (53m 57s):
I've tried to be fair and you're not being fair.

2 (54m 8s):
Tons punishment the worst possible outcome. They call his dad in tones mind. This is his last day on Earth. He gets home go straight to the fridge gets a bowl of ice cream and heads to his room to watch porn. He figures he might as well go out with a bang. He's refilling his bowl when he notices something there's a chair in the middle of the kitchen his dad walks in gestures to the chair and says on my mind.

1 (54m 34s):
now Nope, you know what time it is and like I'm like fuck, you know, I gotta bend over the back of his chair and I'm just taking it and I mean, I'm just breaking down and then and then my father just like he stops I'm crying everything and then he goes. Hey, Tom, and I look back and my father. Takes a Polaroid. Of me crying with the Fate. I mean like it's pants around my ankles ass. Just I mean faces like I mean took a

2 (55m 13s):
Polaroid and what was the expression on your face?

1 (55m 17s):
the expression

2 (55m 22s):
pain and defeat tone never got another spanking. He never went rogue again and part of that has to do with the Polaroid anytime. He started acting up his dad would remind him of that photo and Toma course

1 (55m 35s):
correct it I mean it was like pavlovian. It was like, I mean that photo made me break down

2 (55m 48s):
tone was ashamed he felt bad for robbing the bank, but the thing is it actually got him what he wanted. Not like he expected. He didn't get Jefferson bucks. But he got Justice Miss Jefferson change the rules no matter how many times a day you saw her. You can only earn money during the hour of math class. It became a Level Playing

1 (56m 9s):
Field. I feel like I do remember people, you know, kind of being disappointed there was people in the Jefferson classes that were pissed. I'm sure but everybody wasn't as Jefferson's class was like oh bout

2 (56m 20s):
time. Hmm. Yeah, but you know, what's interesting about what you're saying right now? Oh is just like the kids and Miss Jefferson's class are going to be pissed at you because they don't have the privilege they used to have right, but they also have no concept of how you've been feeling all school

1 (56m 35s):
year like in that's exactly you don't know it's different for me. Well, I'm in her class and you get to take her class and at the same. No, I know it should be but is not that doesn't matter to me. Well, then I have to do some. If felt

2 (56m 51s):
unfair for town, this was always just a funny story. He told about his dad's awkward Polaroid, but he started talking to me about it a few weeks ago during the height of the recent protests and that made him think about the story differently.

1 (57m 5s):
There's a parallel that I've that I've never noticed or or look for I guess between how communities react when they don't feel like they're being treated fairly.

2 (57m 15s):
Well, you know, it's what it makes me think of is like Jesus always talked in. All right, and I feel like you're Jefferson bucks story is such a perfect

1 (57m 25s):
parable. And I agree when the rules are the same for everyone in some people thrive in some people don't but everyone's following them. Why is it not equal why is it not fair? And I don't even know if it's can be answered most of the time but the question has to be asked.

2 (57m 56s):
If this is a parable almost everything lines up the systemic inequality the unfairness has sometimes you have to break the rules in order for them to change. I see what I'm supposed to learn from everyone. But the one thing neither of us could figure out is what are we supposed to learn from Natasha? Tone never told anyone. She took half the money across his across so the real robber actually got away with it. Only Baker is one of the producers on our show tone Bell performed a version of this story on the Comedy Central program. This is not happening. His first hour long special can't cancel.

2 (58m 38s):
This is now available on Showtime and Amazon Prime. Our program is produced by Vive de kornfeld in me people who made the show today include Bim out of woo me Ella Baker Emmanuel Barry Ben Calhoun Dan Chivas nor gilday mean grapes at blind Mickey mixte. Oh Nelson Catherine. Raimondo Nadia Raymond, Robin Simeon Alyssa ship Lily Sullivan. Christopher's wa'ta'ala and Matt Tierney her managing editors or Diane. Whoo, and Sarah abdur Rahman executive editors, David kestenbaum special. Jean-Luc easily know Michael come on e Joseph into re to Wycliffe elute.

2 (59m 22s):
Illallah later Peralta Monique Thompson. Kyle - Koo Yin, Nicole Wallace De Paula Gupta Patricia Spears Jones larell chore and all of the Uber drivers who agreed to talk with Benjamin Walker in May. Please check out the episode that Benjamin did called going Carrara on his podcast Theory of Everything. You can find it at Theory of Everything podcast.com or wherever you get your podcast original music at the end of act one was composed for us by now. Nicholas Payton our website is this American life.org This American Life is delivered to public radio stations by PRX the public radio exchange support for This American Life comes from Sitka salmon shares a community supported fishery delivering seasonal shares of traceable sushi-grade.

2 (1h 0m 3s):
Wild Alaskan Seafood learn more about their small boat fleet find recipes and order at Sitka salmon shares.com. Thanks, of course in my boss Ira Glass a man who still goes trick-or-treating on Halloween? Now when he gets his treat, he still toilet papers the family's house. Oh, yeah.

1 (1h 0m 22s):
Yeah, we call that tricking

2 (1h 0m 23s):
off. I'm Shawn call join us next week for more stories of This American Life. Next week on the podcast of This American Life beaches are open in some places.

2 (1h 1m 4s):
But if you're worried about whether it's safe to go we bring the beach to you with one man's fight against the speedo and David Sedaris. I used to think the ideal name for a beach house was the Ship Shape now though. I had a better idea. We are going to call it. The C-section legs are going to podcast when your local public radio stations.