3 (1s):
Support for This American Life comes from Capital One Capital one's banking app lets you manage your money anytime anywhere Capital One. This is banking reimagined. What's in your wallet Capital One

1 (14s):
and a support for This American Life comes

3 (17s):
from indeed. The most visited job site in the world indeed can get you the important higher you need just like they have 4 over 3 million businesses for a special offer visit indeed.com American terms and conditions apply offer valid through September 30th.

2 (46s):
Me I'm not crazy about the beach. It's hard to think of a less comfortable place to read a book then flat on a blanket under the scorching Sun going in the waves totally fun for a little bit, but like all

3 (59s):
day. And like many people over 40. I have no desire to ever be seen in the bathing suit by anyone ever for the rest of my life.

2 (1m 9s):
But

3 (1m 11s):
now many times have been to the beach this

2 (1m 12s):
summer. Okay, there were two quickie day trips and a 7-Day Beach

3 (1m 17s):
vacation. I don't like the beach but because we live in a world with no

2 (1m 23s):
movies or plays or live music or family get-togethers. I think maybe socially distance Beach going has been my

3 (1m 28s):
number one recreational activity for the

2 (1m 30s):
year. And why well because people I love love the beach. Hitting the beach during summer and I believe I can say this with authority from personal experience hitting the beach in summer is like being a Jew a Christmas. You can try to sit it out. What is this too big at some point? You're going to drink some eggnog. And you know what when I go to the beach I try I really try to get into it have a nice time to appreciate the waves and the sand and the Heat and I think about many hundreds and thousands of years of families have brought their kids to the water's edge to play pretty much exactly the same dumb way that we play in the sand and waves today how many ways are there to do that anyway, and you know, some people really love it so much a while back here in a radio show.

2 (2m 20s):
We all saw this article about somebody like that.

3 (2m 22s):
At at the time he was a 66 year old lifeguard who is suing New York state for age discrimination and I just want to pause on that for a second a 66 year old wife Guard officer on our staff. We had no idea like that could even exist. We all thought lifeguarding is something you do when you're in high school, maybe a couple years after and your 20s like who's still lifeguarding at 66 and then it was even more of a question when we realized that the Lifeguard in the story. He has another job. He's a lawyer. He's a working lawyer. The name is Rory Lester. He's a bankruptcy attorney guys own firm and Long Island, and then you lifeguards every weekend in the summer. And can I just say today on our program we have stories about people like him people who love the beach not people like me.

2 (3m 10s):
WBZ Chicago

3 (3m 11s):
is This American Life? I'm Ira Glass it repaired today a program

2 (3m 14s):
to listen to with the sun beating down on you the humidity through the roof a show of people embracing the beach people who are sons of the

3 (3m 21s):
beach and let's just get right to it with act one like one The Grapes of Wrath. So one of our producers can achieve as she went out to Long Island and met that guy Roy Lester the 66 year-old attorney lifeguard who is suing New York State basically the deal is that they try to make him wear a Speedo. He refused lost his job. Here's

1 (3m 43s):
Dana. If you ask Roy, why are you still like hurting at 66? He barely understands. The question is so self-evident to him. It's been his life since he was 16. He and his buddies were Kings of the beach.

2 (3m 56s):
He lived with other lifeguards his best man at his wedding was a lifeguard their kids grow up playing together on the beach while they were on duty. He never wanted to leave this job. Even when he went to law school in California. He came back to life guard every summer in Lost points. Have like an internship in a law firm or something like that. Yes supposed to did you not do that? I did not get that. I never took it quite that seriously, you know the idea of giving up the summer was something I just couldn't do he's not alone

1 (4m 27s):
it Jones Beach where he worked for 40 years. There are thousands of guys teachers firemen police who stayed with it into their 60s life hurting at Jones Beach is such a thing that a former lifeguard made a film about it. It it's called Jones Beach Boys Roy insisted. I watch it I did it was awesome. Here's my favorite song from

2 (4m 47s):
it. We're going for the rescue and getting to the

1 (4m 55s):
victim. I never really appreciated how thrilling lifeguarding is until Roy talked about rescues. We were sitting in his Law Office

3 (5m 4s):
the exhilaration of a good rescue is unlike anything. You've ever had, you know, and you don't get that I sit here and I shuffle papers. I wouldn't call it exciting. I wouldn't call it rewarding but this is just actually accomplishing something you're up there and all of a sudden you're going out in the water. And the rest of the world is behind. There's nothing else except between you getting from your stand to that victim. That's the only thing and it's It's great. It's a great

2 (5m 40s):
feeling. How many people do you think you've rescued in your career over 8,000. How is it? Yeah, you have to remember there were times. We would have 40 rescues in an hour. Why? Because you have people that come down to Jones Beach who really don't know about swimming. So they especially when you have a current again, you can get a very strong current at Jones Beach a thousand rescues.

1 (6m 14s):
That's way more rescues and David Hasselhoff did on Baywatch figure two rescues per episode 10 years on the Air Roy would still be done by 560 rescues which is to say Roy is one of the life guardias lifeguards there is He had two wins at the national lifeguard competition. He served as an expert lifeguard witness in court cases and all was well in his happy life guarding World until the speedo mishegoss began in 2007.

2 (6m 44s):
Here's what happened. If you're a lifeguard at Jones Beach, you have to take a physical fitness test every year to prove that you're still able to do the job. It includes a speed test in a pool. You have to swim a hundred yards in a minute 20, which is actually pretty Asked a lot of these guys train all year for it for 15 years Roy took a swim test in his preferred swimsuit a pair of Jammers. They look like bike shorts without the butt cushion. If you're watching the Olympics right now, all the male swimmers are wearing them they're tight and they go down to just above the knee but when Roy showed up for the test in 2007, he was told no Jammers

1 (7m 21s):
his bosses at the office of Parks and Recreation said you can only do the test in one of the official Jones Beach lifeguard swimsuit. It's which means you have three choices board shorts trunks or Speedo portraits and Trunks are loose so nobody really takes a swim test in them because they create more drag and slow you down. So in effect State officials were saying to Roy you have to take the test in the speedo Roy said no way I won't do it and he hasn't been a lifeguard at Jones Beach

3 (7m 49s):
since it was one of those feelings. Like am I making the right decision? I'm throwing away a 40-year career. / principal it was a difficult decision a very difficult decision.

1 (8m 5s):
How long did it take you to decide

3 (8m 8s):
a second.

2 (8m 16s):
I really need to point out. You don't have to wear the speedo for the test which lasts a minute and 20 seconds on the job. He'd wear board shorts. Most of the lifeguards. Do young and old why not? Just put it on for the test though. Why didn't Rosa Park just go to the back of the bus? There were plenty of seats. Of course. What Roy was fighting for is quite different from what Rosa Parks was

1 (8m 41s):
fighting for but to Roy is the principle of the thing standing up to age discrimination. When I read about all this in the New York Times, I really didn't understand what's the connection between the speedo and age discrimination. I've certainly seen older dudes in Speedos. So I went out and met Roy on a beach not far from his house in Long

2 (9m 2s):
Island. It was 6:45 in the morning. He was about to go for a mile swim before

1 (9m 7s):
work. So Roy, can you can you describe what you're wearing right now?

3 (9m 11s):
Well, it should watch it. It's a short sleeve wet suit and I have my Jammers on underneath

1 (9m 16s):
Roy brought one of his official Jones Beach speed us to the beat to show me just describe it for me.

3 (9m 22s):
It's an exaggerated thong but lack of a better

1 (9m 27s):
word, but it's full coverage in the back. So it's not quite a thong

3 (9m 31s):
right? Not quite good fun. Right?

1 (9m 34s):
But Troy lots of guys it might as well be a song which is why the speedo is earned a stable of nicknames the weenie bikini the Ding-A-Ling slang the speed don't the banana hammock the grape Smuggler. Miami neat 10 the Saint-Tropez truffle duffel the scrote tote. The reason the Jammer is preferred by older lifeguards. Is it you're saying it's more

3 (9m 56s):
discreet modest more

1 (9m 59s):
modest. Yes, then the

3 (10m 1s):
speedo. Yes, because it covers your thighs.

2 (10m 5s):
I you

3 (10m 6s):
know, I don't want to get graphic but you're the word begins with be basically a hanging out with the with the speedo.

1 (10m 23s):
I get it now, I

3 (10m 24s):
think don't really with the gym is it's not like that. It's like a little bit more of a roof over your house. Yes. Yes.

1 (10m 34s):
This is another of his argument Roy says once he passed 50, he felt self-conscious in the speedo and nobody should have to feel self-conscious to get a job. So Roy refuses to put on the grape Smuggler to take the swim test a few weeks later. There's another chance to take the test. He shows up and this time he is wearing the official Speedo.

2 (10m 56s):
He's just got it on over his Jammers. He showed me a video of a conversation he recorded on the pool that that day was a little windy so the sound isn't But he's standing in front of sued Giuliani. Who is the director of Jones Beach State Park at the time and there he is in his Jammers plus Vito outfit challenging her to turn him away. How come

1 (11m 36s):
The director of water safety for the state beaches Cuts in

2 (11m 39s):
are you going to comply or not?

1 (11m 41s):
I am compliant when my

2 (11m 42s):
official complying what we want or not. I'm wearing my special day. That's what

1 (11m 50s):
did you just go home then?

3 (11m 52s):
Basically I well I stayed around and I had you know watched everybody take the test and

2 (11m 59s):
there are other people

1 (11m 60s):
taking the test in Jammers.

3 (12m 1s):
No, no, nobody was allowed to take the test in January. Miss

2 (12m 5s):
so everybody else. He the put on a speedo of put on the board short something like that. The Royce is he could have warned board shorts or Trunks. And so passed the test. He says

1 (12m 19s):
he could have warned dungarees and past the

2 (12m 21s):
guys and ridiculous shape. He does triathlons now coaches the swim team in 2012. You had a hip replaced in seven weeks later. He came in first in his age group in Bermudez. Rounds the sound swim race a 1.2 miles of Open Water Swim. He was still using a cane to

1 (12m 37s):
walk. So the easy thing for Roy to do would be just take the test in board shorts or Speedo and keep the job he loved Bureaucrats be bureaucrats just get on with it. That's what Roy Roy does not back down from a fight. So he sued he sued the New York State Office of parks recreation and historic preservation for five million dollars. Now, the easy thing for the state would have been to just let Jones Beach lifeguards where Jammers presumably if they're good enough for the Olympic Swim Team. They're good enough for New York Life guards, but that's not New York state it decided to fight. The lawsuit is worked its way through the lower court which dismissed it to the Appellate Court, which ruled in May that it should go to trial.

1 (13m 22s):
This has been going on for seven years seven years Roy sent me a PDF of his exhibits in the case. It was 1,300 pages long. The thing I really want to know because I live in New York and pay taxes in New York

3 (13m 36s):
is why is this date

1 (13m 37s):
using taxpayer dollars to fight the speedo suit. This could all have been resolved very easily years ago. If they just

3 (13m 43s):
changed the rule allowed the dammers,

1 (13m 46s):
why are growing the state fighting each other when they should unite against the Real Enemy

2 (13m 51s):
jellyfish?

1 (13m 56s):
Officials from the state of New York wouldn't talk to me for this story. The Attorney General's office wouldn't talk either would Parks and Rec but they did send me the Affidavit of a guy named George Gorman. He oversees all the parks and Long Island and at least out their side of the story around 2006 some of the Jones Beach lifeguard started taking the swim test in full body swimsuits management became concerned that those guys were only passing because they were wearing the full body swimsuits so they decided to change the rules. Starting in 2007 lifeguards could only take the test in one of the three official Jones Beach uniform swimsuits. No more full body suits and also no Jammers because Jammers aren't part of the uniform in his deposition.

1 (14m 39s):
George Gorman said quote we determined it was best that the lifeguards wear the uniforms that they're assigned to wear while they're on duty seems reasonable, right? Not if you're Roy he points out if Jammers really are significantly faster wouldn't you want your lifeguards to wear faster suit get them out to Drowning victims sooner and as it happens New York Parks and Rec allows lifeguards to take their qualifying test in Jammers in the rest of the state

3 (15m 7s):
Upstate. I went Upstate to take the test and I wore my pajamas, you know, you took the test update. Yes, and I wore my pajamas and people would the Jammers and I have pictures of And I think that's part of the exhibit of guys taking the test in their jammies update. Yes, there's same employer New York State Department of recreation. The same employer allows the Jammers. So your theory about this is that

1 (15m 35s):
they're targeting Long Island because

3 (15m 38s):
why because 90% of the older the over 50 lifeguards work on Long Island. It's the biggest group of older lifeguards anyway, Where for what is worth the state told me that the

1 (15m 52s):
rules are different on Long Island because it's a more strenuous job lifeguarding on the ocean Upstate is all lakes and pools. Why do you think it is that they don't want older lifeguards?

3 (16m 2s):
Well, I think they don't like the fact that older lifeguards have influence over the younger guys. And when you're a member of management, you don't want anybody having influence over your employees, except you and You have to deal with the union and you have to deal with the officers of the unions who are all older guys and they know the beach. You don't want that.

1 (16m 30s):
Yep. There's a lifeguard Union Roy was the president of the union for years and at that point in 2007 when he refused to wear the speedo. He was the Union's Chief negotiator when Sue Giuliani tells him to follow the rules

2 (16m 45s):
so that you can that way she knows him.

1 (16m 48s):
He's he's the guy the union sense argue its side and these guys telling him he can't wear his Jammers their management. This is a scantily clad labor dispute. I asked some other older lifeguards about this and three out of the four of them agreed. This is about the union which actually has a history of fighting age discrimination

2 (17m 7s):
in 1966. They

1 (17m 9s):
went on strike because the state tried to impose an age limit of 35 for Jones Beach lifeguards, so they walked off the

2 (17m 14s):
beach a week later the state caved. Knowing this that the suits and the swimsuits have a history with each other. I helped me understand what Roy's fight was really about Roy told me one reason. He took a stand was that management was supposed to tell the union if they wanted to change a rule like this and this time they didn't boys got a weekend job now at a private beach club, but it's not the

3 (17m 42s):
same. I like where I'm working. Now. I really do but you get one rescuer. A year if you're lucky and then it's of What's called the puddle jumper. What is a puddle jumper idle jumpers where you really don't even need to get your head wet. And you Jones Beach in the old days. We would have these tremendous rescues just these great rescues

1 (18m 5s):
his friends from Jones Beach tease him that he's in Exile. Now. How often do you go visit them

3 (18m 11s):
that often I keep in touch with them constantly, but I don't go down there that often. To be honest, it does hurt. It hurts to go down there. That was my beach. You know, it was my home for so many years

2 (18m 33s):
if Roy's theory is true. Then the state is trying to get rid of the older

1 (18m 36s):
lifeguards on Long Island by forcing them into Speedos. But if that's true as far as I can tell the only lifeguard they've managed to get rid of Is Roy.

2 (18m 54s):
- Ellis is one of the producers are programmed since we

3 (18m 57s):
first broadcast. This story Roy is back at Jones Beach after 12 years of fighting him over is right not to wear Speedos New York state has granted him an exception passed his test. He's back working as a lifeguard. He is 70 years old.

2 (19m 23s):
Back to beach doctor.

3 (19m 26s):
Oh, hello. Yep. I'm here now. Hey, Alex. Hello little buddy. How are you? Hi other little buddy. This next story takes place on a beach in Mexico Shane did about order to produce her Alex blumberg couple years ago. They are old friends and basically as we were putting our show together Alex remember this thing that happened to Shane decades before when Shane was out kayaking on a trip in Mexico down in Baja, California Shane and his friends took a month-long vacation and Every day, they would head out into the Gulf of California and go sea kayaking. It really kind of in the middle of nowhere. There's little beach communities and some little tourist centers, but mostly what we were doing was Finding deserted open beaches and camping.

3 (20m 8s):
So there was nobody around for most of the time. Wow, so it was just like the it was you and those like how many times was he set the 767 it was six or seven and some people might go fishing some people might play cards. Some people might snorkel think we But outside a lot. I felt like we were 12 years old pretending to be Robinson Crusoe living off the land. So we carried all our own water all our own food camping supplies tents sleeping bags cooking supplies sunscreen. I hope sunscreen know we were young then we just figured it'd be fine.

3 (20m 49s):
Are you serious? You didn't bring any sunscreen? I'm sure I didn't

1 (20m 58s):
So we're in

3 (20m 58s):
Baja. We are on a layover which means we are just Camp somewhere and we're not trying to kayak right now and we've been clamming all day and my neck locks up and I can't turn my head to one side and this is bad for lots of reasons. But when you're kayaking you have to be able to paddle gonna be able to use both arms and this neck like you have this is something that's happened to periodically throughout your yeah. This is this happen six to eight times a year. Oh Comet usually last three or four days, right? What's so no one wants to be stuck on the beach while I'm working out my neck for three or four days. So we had run into a little expat community on a beach pretty close to where we were camping these folks who had were living in campers and had set up little Cantinas which are really just sort of steaks with a tarp over them and they would serve beers or in our case.

3 (21m 54s):
As they showed us how to clam and then they made us a clam Feast. So we went back to the guy that it has shown us how to do that to his his camper on the beach and I said, there's not there's not any chiropractors anywhere nearby and which was just a ridiculous question because there was nothing nearby, right and he I mean this really this is where it kind of gets apocryphal but is actually true because he gets the sort of wistful look in his eye and he says no there's no Tractor but there is an amateur chiropractor who helped some of the local people and his name is Johnny tequila, and he lives on a boat to coves over from where you're staying.

3 (22m 40s):
And if you if you go to this man, he may help you

2 (22m 44s):
it was very mystical and you're like, well, you have it amateur chiropractor, but once I find out that his name is, dr. Johnny tequila. So you said how do you get there? How

3 (23m 1s):
do I get there as I don't want to miss it and he's like, you know, you won't miss her as like won't tell me where he is. And so

2 (23m 7s):
he grabs

3 (23m 8s):
a bar napkin and in like black black ball Point pen. I think sketches me a rough outline of the coast and like

2 (23m 19s):
puts an ex. There's an x mark the spot. That's

3 (23m 21s):
where Johnny tequila is to over no one wants to go with me. They're all gonna chill out place on the kayak up to this guy. Yes, I have to kayak to him. So I'm and I'm in my friends had taken the teasing me about my

2 (23m 37s):
pedal stroke, which

3 (23m 37s):
was at this point one-armed half-crippled and they were calling it the chicken wing because of your hand because of my neck. Yeah, so I chicken wing for two cloves worth like maybe a mile paddle and you're really close to the shore and it's you know, the beach is right on your Right in the open ocean is on your left and chicken wing one Kovac a your I'm looking at my end my napkin gets wet. So my map gets all just destroyed comes

2 (24m 4s):
apart because the water is running down your paddle handle.

3 (24m 8s):
So I chicken wing on over and they're in the second Cove is a catamaran in the middle of an empty Cove, you know, and I don't want you to get the idea that this is a harbor or docx or anything. Thing man-made nothing around and it's docked in the water maybe 20 or 30 yards from Shore and as I paddle closer. I don't see anyone. It's got a cabin but there's a mass is up. No sale is up and as I get closer and closer, I can see around the Mast lined up are empty Cuervo Gold tequila bottles, but kind of orderly though.

3 (24m 53s):
The weird thing like usually don't associate empty Tequila bottles with order but these had been meticulously kind of lined up ringing the Mast ringing the Mast and again, I'm paddling up on a boat in the middle of nowhere with no one else around and I don't really know how to even start and from some deep place. The word that comes to me is Ahoy, which I've certainly never used in normal conversation. So I say Ahoy and from out of the cabin comes a completely naked woman.

3 (25m 37s):
She looks American and blond hair tanned so deeply it's like the tan that goes to your liver. It's just Tan all the way through really like muscley like but I like her shoulders looked like she was probably like a rafting guide in Colorado. So she's completely naked and completely unfazed about being completely naked just greets me and talks to me as if she were wearing clothes and she's above me so I'm just looking up at her being naked for my kayak holding onto the side of their boat and I'm in my kayak and I said is Johnny Here and she's very nice and she goes no he went to town for supplies, but who be back shortly?

3 (26m 23s):
Why don't you wait until he comes back and then eventually Johnny tequila, we see him on the beach near us and he's got a little rowboat and heroes back to us and he looks exactly like her he's I mean he's got on shorts, but he's got that Tan, he looks kind of muscle in his shoulders and chest and they both have kind of wild bleached-out blond hair and real scruffy maybe 30s, although the sun makes everyone look older. So who knows and I tell them my story and he's like, yeah, of course, I'll I'll perform some amateur chiropractor e on your neck.

3 (27m 8s):
He didn't say that he said just yeah, of course, I'll help you follow me to shore so Heroes and I chicken wing. The shore and we pull our boats up and then he said follow me and now we are going I want to say jungle, but it was that jungle but it's it's dense scrub it mean this is when there's bushes all around us. There's cacti winding around in the middle of Mexico. No one else for miles. and I'm following him on this path a really faint path and we come to a clearing and in the clearing there is a table exactly like a massage table or a chiropractor table you'd see in a real chiropractor's office with like the center part that's open and you can put your face down there and like the neck part, you know articulates and comes up, you know, it's the real deal and a

2 (28m 9s):
Sighs human

3 (28m 10s):
skeleton hanging from the tree, which I assume is a replica, but it looks like a skeleton and the table in the clearing in the middle of the desert in Mexico. And then he has me lie on my back looking up at his face and his crazy hair and he's shirtless. Did I tell you my chiropractor is shirtless and he's shirtless. And he puts his hands around my

2 (28m 44s):
neck little of Mexico

3 (28m 47s):
clearing with a skeleton my amateur chiropractor not as my neck in his hands and he gives me a chiropractic exam that resembles every other Chiropractic examiners I've received and then he does an adjustment that also passes as any other Chiropractic adjustment I've received and I say yeah Johnny tequila. Thank you for adjusting my neck. You know, can I can I pay you he said no, I just do this to help people. There will be no payment. But if you ever see me in a bar, you can buy me a shot of tequila.

3 (29m 33s):
Then the next day which was in fact your neck better. Well, it's possible. I'm collapsing time. But the way I remember it I chicken wing back and over the next few hours. I start to feel much much better and the neck is okay. Do you think the Johnny tequila like when you think of giant tequila, is he an argument for checking it all and moving to some quiet beach in some distant land or is he an argument against it? He's 100% in argument for I

2 (30m 15s):
can't believe you asked me that

3 (30m 16s):
question a simpler life just crack people's necks. Drink tequila has thing in the Cantina go home to my naked lady. Did I not tell the story to make it seem good it seem great. Change the bow talking to Alex blumberg as by the way is a brand new show that he is co-hosting. It's a podcast that

1 (30m 46s):
launches next week. It's God

3 (30m 48s):
how to save a planet about climate Solutions on August 20th. Look for it. Wherever you get your podcast Johnny says it back in the States

2 (30m 56s):
everyone Shake cause they all got the polo fever do the second hand summer sweat short sleeves everybody shake because they all got the polo fever do the second handsomest. Short sleeves that three The Beachcomber. Okay. So the absolute beachy astray Dio show I think maybe it has

3 (31m 24s):
ever been made. I believe anyway was done by my first boss

2 (31m 27s):
at NPR This documentary producer named Keith Talbot. He made this back in 1979. It was called ocean our and I love that show. Like I say, I

3 (31m 37s):
think it's the beaches. A radio show mankind will ever produce and

2 (31m 42s):
here is one of my favorite Parts just before I play this I should say. This is

3 (31m 46s):
such a piece of 1970s era public radio that there's no narration on the show giving the name of the interviewee who you're about to hear or where he is. That's

2 (31m 56s):
how we rolled back then anyway, I hope you like this here is a scroungers life. Everything is like the Beachcomber you can actually I have lived as For as a man can live and still survive in United States of America in the 1970s because everything comes here sometimes would moisturizers the various other fish that you can get for the asking mullet, which is the big good eating fish around here along with trout and catfish which come from the river you have the river cat and the saltwater cat they seem to be cousins but they taste a little different and in addition to all of that you get the kinds of things that see brings.

2 (32m 38s):
Which is from folks there's always a certain amount of movement of cardinal in boats as well as fish and firewood around here is for the asking in a city like New York or Washington firewood. I'm sure costs $100 of truckload $200 around who you can go out and fill it up for nothing. There is a theory for example in archaeology that all of the early settlements were on the coast of man, but that's where the easiest life is always been where everything was for the taking and you had the sea and you had the land together in the various mutations between them and that's where food chains like the start where you have that melting land or that solidifying water.

2 (33m 25s):
That's where the organisms get their start. Especially you have the right climate. As a poor man, it means that things are coming to me which don't happen is very much in the prairie are in the big cities. If nothing comes to your door in a big city, except the cop or a taxi driver or something, but here things actually come to your door. And accept a motion

3 (33m 51s):
our 1979 a link to that entire program. Is that a website and I do recommend it. It's This American Life dot-org. Coming up David Sedaris and his family go to the beach except for one of them. That's in a minute Chicago public radio when our program continues. Support for This American Life comes from Capital One. Welcome to banking reimagined Capital One checking and savings accounts have no fees or minimums and a top-rated banking app that lets you manage your money anytime anywhere check on the account balance deposit checks pay bills and transfer money on the go. This is banking reimagined.

3 (34m 32s):
What's in your wallet Capital One na member FDIC Support for This American Life comes from indeed the most visited job site in the world with 73% of online job Seekers visiting indeed. Each month indeed can get you the important higher you need just like they have 4 over 3 million businesses indeed gives you full control and payment flexibility over your hiring you only pay for what you need. You can pause your account anytime and there are no long-term contracts for a special offer visit. D.com American terms and conditions apply offer valid through September

4 (35m 12s):
30th.

3 (35m 15s):
This American Life Myra glass today for everybody who is far from the beach for everybody who's avoiding the beach because of coronavirus for everybody who needs the beach we take you there with stories about the beach. We've arrived at Act 4 act for now we have five. Okay. So if you're a beach family you go to the beach every year Goodyear's bad years, whatever happens in your family that you're just what you do. David Sedaris has this story about his family heading to the beach together. When you're this was first published in the New Yorker a few years back and here at a program. We all really loved it. So here's David.

1 (35m 52s):
In late May of last year a few weeks shy of her 50th birthday my youngest sister Tiffany committed suicide. She was living in a room in a beat-up house on the hard side of Somerville, Massachusetts and had been dead the corner guest for at least five days before her door was batter down. I was given the news over a white courtesy phone while at the Dallas airport then because my plane to Baton Rouge was boarding and I wasn't sure what else to do. I got on it the following morning. I boarded another plane this one to Atlanta and the day after that I flew to Nashville thinking all the while about my ever-shrinking family a person expects his parents to die, but a sibling I felt I'd lost the identity on enjoyed since 1868 when my brother was born six kids people would say how do your poor folks manage?

1 (36m 49s):
There were a lot of big families in the neighborhood. I grew up in every other house was a fiefdom. So I never gave it much thought until I became an adult and my friends started having children one or two scenes are reasonable, but anything beyond that struck me as outrageous. A couple here and I knew in Normandy would occasionally come to dinner with their wrecking crew of three when they leave several hours later. Every last part of me would feel violated take those kids double them and subtract the cable TV. That's what my parents had to deal with now though there weren't six only five and you can't really say they're used to be six. I told my sister Lisa.

1 (37m 30s):
It just makes people uncomfortable. How we call the father and son had met in California few years back. So whether other children is there are the man said three who are living in a daughter Chloe who died before she was born 18 years ago. That's not fair. I remember thinking because I mean what's a person supposed to do with that? Compared to most 49 year olds or even most 49 month olds. Tiffany didn't have much she did leave a will though in its he decreed that we her family could not have her body or attend her memorial service.

1 (38m 16s):
So put that in your pipe and smoke it. Her mother would have said a few days after getting the news my sister Amy drove to Somerville with a friend and Two boxes of things from Tiffany's room Family Photos many of which had been ripped into pieces comment cards from a Neighborhood Grocery Store notebooks receipts the bed a mattress on the floor had been taken away and a large industrial fan had been set up. Amy snaps and pictures while she was there and individually and in groups those of us left studied them for Clues paper played on a dresser that had several drawers missing phone number written on a wall a collection of mop handles each one a different color arranged like Cattails in a barrel painted green.

1 (39m 8s):
Six months before our sister killed herself. I had made plans for us all to gather at a beach house on Emerald Isle off the coast of North Carolina my family Used to Vacation there every summer, but after my mother died, we stopped going not because we lost interest but because it was she who always made the arrangements and more importantly paid for it the place I found with the help of my sister-in-law Kathy had six bedrooms in a small swimming. Pool are A week-long rental period began on Saturday June 8 and we arrived to find the delivery woman standing in the driveway with seven pounds of seafood a sympathy gift sent by friends.

1 (39m 48s):
They slaw on there too. She said handing over the

2 (39m 51s):
bags and the past when my family rented a

1 (40m 1s):
cottage my sisters and I would crowd the door like puppies around a food dish. Our father would unlock it and we care through the house cleaning rooms. I always pick the biggest one facing the ocean just as I'd start to unpack my parents would enter and tell me that this was there's I mean just who the hell do you think you are? My father would ask he and my mother would move in and I would get booted to what was called. The maid's

2 (40m 27s):
room was always on the ground level a kind of dank shed next to where the car was parked. There was never an interior stairway leading to the Upper Floor

1 (40m 37s):
instead. I had to take the outside steps and more often than not knock on the locked front door like a beggar. Hoping to be invited in. What do you want? My sister's when asked I want to come inside.

2 (40m 53s):
That's funny Lisa. The eldest would say to the

1 (40m 56s):
others who were gathered like disciples around her. Did you hear something whining sound? What is it that makes a noise like that a hermit. Crab a little sea slug. Normally there was a social divide between the three oldest and three youngest children in my family Lisa Gretchen and I treated the others like servants and did very well for ourselves at the beach though all bets were off and it was just upstairs against downstairs. everyone against me this time because I was paying I got to choose the best room a moved in next door and my brother Paul his wife and their 10 year old daughter Maddie took the spot next to her that was it for Oceanfront the others arrive later and had to take the leftovers Lisa's room faced Street as did.

1 (41m 45s):
My father's Gretchen's faced the street and was intended for someone who was paralyzed hanging from the ceiling were electric pulleys designed to lift a harness body. Two and out of bed unlike the cottages of are you this one did not have a maid's room. It was too new and fancy for that as were the homes that surrounded it traditionally all the island houses were on stilts but more and more often. Now, the ground floors are filled in they all have BT names and are painted beachy colors, but most of those built after Hurricane Fran hit the coast in 1996 are three stories tall and look almost Suburban.

1 (42m 27s):
This place was vast and Airy kitchen table sat 12 and there was not one but two dishwashers all the pictures were ocean related seascapes and lighthouses all with the Airborne these that are shorthand for Seagull a sampler on the living room wall red old shellers. Never die. They simply conk out. On the round clock decided the numbers lay in an in decipherable Heap as if they had come unglued just above them where printed the words who cares. This was what we found ourselves saying whenever anyone asks the time who

2 (43m 5s):
cares

1 (43m 12s):
the day before we arrived

2 (43m 13s):
at the Beach Tiffany's

1 (43m 15s):
obituary brand and the Raleigh news and observer. It was submitted by Gretchen who stated that our sister had passed away peacefully at her home this made it sound as if she were very old and had a house. But what else could you

4 (43m 28s):
do?

1 (43m 30s):
People were leaving responses on the papers website and one fellow wrote that Tiffany used to come in to the video store where he worked in Somerville when his glasses broke she offered him a pair. She had found while foraging for art supplies in somebody's trash can he said she also gave him a Playboy Magazine from the 1960s that included a photo spread titled the ass, Menagerie. This was fascinating is we didn't really know her sister very well. Each of us had pulled away from the family at some point in our lives. We had to in order to forge our own identities to go from being a Sedaris to our own specific Sedaris Tiffany though stayed away.

1 (44m 14s):
She might promise to come home for Christmas. But at the last minute that always be some excuse she missed your plane. She had to work the same would happen with our summer vacations the rest of us. To make it I'd say aware of how old and guilt trip you sounded. All of us would be disappointed by her absence though for different reasons, even if he weren't getting along with Tiffany at the time you couldn't deny the show she put on the dramatic entrances the nonstop professional-grade insults the chaos she'd inevitably leave in her wake. When did she throw a dish at you? And the next should create a mosaic made of the shards when Allegiance is with one brother or sister flamed out.

1 (44m 56s):
She'd take up with someone else. Had no time. Did she get along with everybody? There was always someone she was in contact with toward the end. It was Lisa. But before that we'd all had our turn. The last time she joined us on Emerald Isle was 1986. And even then she left after three days Gretchen reminded us as kids. We spent our beach time swimming then we became teenagers. Devoted ourselves to tanning. There's a certain kind of talk that takes place when you're lying days in the Sun and I've always been partial to it on the first afternoon.

1 (45m 39s):
If our most recent trip, we laid out one of the bedspreads we had as children a deranged ourselves side-by-side on it trading stories about Tiffany. What about the Halloween? She spent on that army base and the time she showed up at Dad's birthday party with a black eye. I remember this girl she met years ago at a party. I began when my turn came she'd been talking about facial scars and how terrible it would be to have one. So Tiffany said I have a little scar on my face and I don't think it's so awful. Well, the girl said you would if you were pretty Amy laughed and rolled over onto her stomach. Oh, that's a good line. I rearranged the towel.

1 (46m 19s):
I was using as a pillow in the tunnel coming from someone else's story might have been upsetting but not being pretty was never one of Tiffany's problems, especially when she was in her 20s and 30s and Men tumbled helpless before her. Funny I said but I don't remember her scar on her face. I stayed in the sun too long that day and got a burn on my forehead. That was basically it for me in the beach blanket. I made brief appearances for the rest of the week stopping the dry off after a swim.

1 (46m 59s):
But mainly I spent my days on a bike cycling up and down the coast and thinking about what had happened. While the rest of us seem to get along effortlessly with Tiffany it always felt like work. She and I usually made up after arguing but our last fight took it out of me at the time of her death. We hadn't spoken in eight years. During that period i regularly found myself near Summerville. No, I don't ways toy with the idea of contacting her. I never did despite my father's encouragement. Meanwhile, I get reports from him and Lisa Tiffany had lost her apartment had gone on disability had moved into a room found for her by a Social Service Agency, perhaps she was more forthcoming with her friends, but her family got things only in bits and pieces.

1 (47m 50s):
She didn't talk with us so much is at us great blocks of speech that were interns funny astute and so contradictory. It was hard to connect the sentence. He were hearing to the one that You did. Before we stopped speaking. I could always tell when she was on the phone I'd walk into the house and here Hugh say a ha ha ha. Uh-huh. In addition to the two boxes that Amy had filled in Somerville. She also brought down our sisters 1978 9th grade yearbook among the messages inscribed by her classmates was a following written by someone who had drawn a marijuana leaf beside her name Tiffany, you are a one-of-a-kind girl.

1 (48m 35s):
So stay that way you unique ass. I'm only sorry we couldn't have partied more together. This school sucks to Hell stay cool stoned drunk. Stop check your ass later. Then there's Tiffany. I'm looking forward to getting high with you this summer and Tiffany call me sometime this summer and we'll go out and get blitzed a few weeks after these messages were written Tiffany ran away and was subsequently sent to a disciplinary institution in Maine called the lon. According to what she told us later. It was a horrible place. She returned home in 1980 having spent two years there.

1 (49m 16s):
From that point on none of us can recall a conversation in which he did not mention it. She blamed the family for sending her off but we her siblings had nothing to

3 (49m 25s):
do with it Paul

1 (49m 27s):
for instance. Paul was 10 when she left. I was 21 for a year. I sent her monthly letters then she wrote and told me to stop as for my parents. They were only so many times I could apologize we had other kids. They said in their defense you think we could let the world? Stop on account of any one of you.

2 (49m 57s):
We were at the beach for three

1 (49m 59s):
days before Lisa and Our Father who is now 90 joined us being on the island meant missing the spinning classes. He cakes and Raleigh. So I found a fitness center not far from the rental Cottage and every afternoon, he and I would spend some time there. On the way over we talk to each other. But as soon as we mounted our stationary bikes we teach Retreat into our own thoughts. It was a small place not very Lively commute television oversaw the room tuned to the Weather Channel and reminding us that there's always a catastrophe somewhere or other always someone flooded from his home or running for his life from a funnel-shaped clown.

1 (50m 41s):
Toward the end of the week. I Came Upon my father and Amy's room sifting through the photos at Tiffany had destroyed in his hand was a fragment of my mother's head with a patch of blue sky behind her under what circumstances had this been ripped up. I wondered it seems such a melodramatic gesture like throwing a glass against a wall something someone in a movie would do just awful my father whispered a person's Life reduced to one lousy box. I put my hand on his shoulder. Actually, there are two of them.

1 (51m 22s):
He corrected himself to lousy boxes. One afternoon on Emerald Isle we all rode to the Food Lion for groceries. I was in the produce department looking at red onions when my brother sneaked up from behind and let loose with allowed actually this while whipping a bouquet of what parsley

2 (51m 43s):
through the air

1 (51m 44s):
I felt the spray on the back of my neck and froze thinking of very sick stranger had just sneezed on me. It's a neat trick, but he also doused the Indian woman who was standing to my left. She was wearing a blood-colored. Sorry. So gotten on her bare arm as well as her neck and the lower part of her back

2 (52m 3s):
sigh man. Paul said when

1 (52m 4s):
she turned around horrified, I'm just playing a joke on my brother. The

2 (52m 9s):
woman had many thin bracelets on and they

1 (52m 11s):
jangle this she brushed her hand against the back of her head. You called her man. I said to him after she walked off for real. He asked. Amy mimic them perfectly for you Over the phone my brother like me is often mistaken for a woman as we continue chopping he told

2 (52m 32s):
us that his van had recently broken down

1 (52m 34s):
and that when he called for a tow truck the dispatcher

2 (52m 37s):
said we'll be right out sweetie, you know where the watermelon into the card and turn to his daughter man. He's got a daddy talks like a lady, but she don't care day. She

1 (52m 47s):
giggling she punched him in the stomach and I was struck by how comfortable the two of them are with each other. Our father was a figure of

2 (52m 54s):
authority. My Paul is more of a playmate. When I went to the beach is children

1 (53m 7s):
honor about the fourth day. Our father would say wouldn't it be nice to buy a cottage down here? We get our hopes up and then he would bring practical concerns into it. They weren't Petty buying a house. It will eventually get blown away by a hurricane probably isn't the best way to spend your money. But still we wanted one desperately. I told myself when I was young that one day. I would buy a beach house and then it would be everyone's as long as I followed my Draconian rules and never stop thanking me for it. Thus it was on Wednesday morning Midway through our vacation he when I contacted her. Real estate agent named Phyllis who took us around to look at available properties on Friday afternoon.

1 (53m 49s):
We made an offer on an Oceanfront Cottage not far from the one we were renting Before Sunset. Our bid was accepted. I made the announcement at the dinner table and got the reaction. I had expected now, wait a minute. My father said you need to think clearly here. I already have I told him okay, then how old is the roof? How many times has it been replaced in the past 10 years. When can we move in Gretchen asked Lisa wanted to know if she could bring her dogs and Amy asked what the house was named. Right now it's called fantastic place. I told her but we're going to change it. I used to think the ideal name for a beach house was the Ship Shape now though.

1 (54m 33s):
I had a better idea. We're going to call it the C-section. My father put down his hamburger Oh, no, you're not but it's perfect. I argued the name supposed to be beachy and if it's upon all the better, I brought up a cottage we'd seen earlier in the day called Dune or thing. My father winced. What about naming it Tiffany he said Our silence translated to let's pretend we didn't hear that. He picked his hamburger back up. I think it's a great idea the perfect way to pay our respects. That's the case. We can a man after Mom. I told him over half after Mom and half after Tiffany, but it's a house not a tombstone and it wouldn't fit in with the names of the other houses all baloney.

1 (55m 20s):
My father said fitting in that's not who we are. That's not what we're about Paul interrupted to nominate The Conch sucker a me see Suggestion had the word semen in it and Gretchen's was even dirtier. What's wrong with the name? It already has Lisa asked no, no. No, my father said forgetting. I think this wasn't his decision. A few days later after the buyer's remorse and kicked in I'd wonder if I hadn't bought the house as a way of saying see it's just that easy. No hemming and hawing no asking to look at the septic tank rather. You make your family happy and iron out the details later.

1 (56m 2s):
The cottage we bought is two stories tall and was built in 1978. It's on proper stilts and has to weird decks one above the other overlooking the ocean. It was rented to vacationers until late September, but Phyllis allowed us to drop by and show it to the family the following morning after we checked out of the house. We'd been staying in a place always looks different worse most often after you've made the commitment to buy it. So while the others raised up and down the Claiming their future bedrooms. I helped my nose to event and caught a whiff of mildew the sale included the furniture. So I also made an inventory of the barcaloungers and massive TVs.

1 (56m 45s):
I would eventually be getting rid of along with the shell pattern bedspreads and cushions with anchors on them for our beach house. I want to have a Train theme I announced trains on the curtains trains on the towels. We're going to go all out, brother. my father Mound We sketched a plan to return for Thanksgiving and after saying goodbye to one another my family splintered into groups and headed off to our respective homes. There'd been a breeze at the beach house. But once we left the island the Air Group still as the heat intensified, so to the general feeling of depression throughout the 60s and 70s the road back to Raleigh took his past Smithfield and a billboard on the outskirts of town that red.

1 (57m 34s):
Welcome to Clan country. This time we took a different route 1 my brother recommended Hugh drove and my father's side beside him. I slumped down in the back seat next to Amy. And every time I raise my head, I'd see the same soybean field or low-slung cinderblock building. We've seemingly past 20 minutes earlier. We've been on the road for a little more than an hour when we stopped at a farmers market inside an open-air Pavilion woman offer complimentary plates of hummus served with the corn and black bean salad. So we each accepted one and took seats on a bench 20 years earlier the most a place like this might have offered was fried okra.

1 (58m 18s):
Now there was organic coffee and artisanal goat cheese above our heads homicide and then tread Whispering Dove Ranch. Just as I thought that we might be anywhere. I noticed that the music pipe to the speaker's was Christian the new kind which says that Jesus is awesome. You brought my father a plastic cup of water you okay Lu fine my father answered. Why do you think she did it? I asked as we stepped back into the sunlight. For that's all any of us were thinking had been thinking since we got the news mustn't Tiffany of hope that whatever pill she taken wouldn't be strong enough and that her failed attempt would lead her back into our fold.

1 (59m 7s):
How could anyone purposefully leave us us of all people? This is how I thought of it for though. I've often lost faith in myself. I've never lost faith in my family in my certainty that we are fundamentally better. Than everyone else. It's an archaic belief one. I haven't seriously we considered since my late teens, but still I hold it ours is the only Club I'd ever wanted to be a member of so I couldn't imagine quitting backing off for a year or two was understandable, but to want out so badly that you take your own life.

1 (59m 47s):
I don't know that it had anything to do with us. My father said but how could it have not doesn't the blood of every suicide Splash back on our faces? The far end of the parking lot was a stand selling reptiles in giant tanks were to pythons each as big around as a firehose the heat seemed to suit them and I watched as they raise their heads testing the screen ceilings beside the snakes was a low pain growling an alligator with its mouth banded shot. It wasn't full grown, but perhaps an adolescent around 3:00.

1 (1h 0m 30s):
Long and grumpy looking girl had stuck her arm to the wiring was stroking the things back while it glared seething. I'd like to buy everything here just so I could kill it. I said my father mopped his forehead with Kleenex. I'm with you brother when we were young and would set off for the beach. I look out the window at all the landmarks. We drove by the pier Inna Silo on the south side of Raleigh the clan billboard knowing that when we passed in week later. I'd be miserable our vacation.

1 (1h 1m 10s):
Now there'd be nothing to live for until Christmas. My life is much Fuller than it was back. Then yet this return felt. No different. What time is it? I asked Amy and instead of saying who care she said

2 (1h 1m 24s):
you tell me you're the one with the

1 (1h 1m 25s):
watch on. At the airport a few hours later. I picked San from my pockets thought of our final moments of the beach house. I bought I was on the front porch with Phyllis who would just lock the door and we turned to see the others and the driveway below us. So is that one of your sisters? She asked pointing to Gretchen it is I said and so are the two women standing on either side of her. Then you've got your brother. She observed that makes five. Wow now. That's a big family. I looked at the sun baked cars who would soon be climbing into furnaces every one of them.

1 (1h 2m 8s):
And said, yes, it certainly is.

2 (1h 2m 23s):
If Sedaris the story appears in his book called up, so and in his forthcoming collection best of me. We want to share the phone number for the National Suicide Prevention Hotline. That number is 1-800-218-4243.

3 (1h 2m 42s):
273 8255.

2 (1h 3m 19s):
We're going to space today by Robin. Samian with Alex blumberg Ben Calhoun. Sarah Koenig. Nikki meet Jonathan. Menjivar. Brian. Drita was a ship and Nancy Updike senior producer for today's show is Julie Snyder production up on this rerun from Sarah abdirahman McGill peppermint Mondo Stone Nelson the mat tyranny research up today for Michelle Harris music help from Damien great from Bob Geddes special. Thanks today to William. Ouchie Craig dessen and Factory Theater in Toronto our website This American Life dot-org This American Life is distributed to Public Radio. In spite PRX the public radio exchange sporting This American Life comes from hey.com. He is a new take on email allowing you the screen emails just like you can screen calls get some of the thumbs up and they will go out in thumbs down and you never hear from them again.

2 (1h 4m 4s):
Try it for free @ H ey.com. Thanks as always to our programs co-founder. Mr. Troy now it's here or as we like to call him the grapes mugler the Miami meet 10 putting a link slang the Santa rope a truffle duffel. I'm Ira Glass. Don't forget the sunscreen. I'll be back next week more stories of This American Life.

3 (1h 4m 45s):
Next week on the podcast This American Life at 15 and he was miserable in school. He was miserable at home is only Escape was into the world of science fiction. So you decided that he was going to go live with his favorite science fiction writer kiss my mom. Goodbye and said, I'm off to school

2 (1h 5m 3s):
and instead of going to school I walk to the airport. I mean it was at least eight

3 (1h 5m 7s):
miles seeking help when maybe you shouldn't next week on the podcast or any local public radio station.