1 (1s):
support for This American Life comes from honey finding promo codes would actually work isn't easy unless you use honey, the free browser extension that scans the internet for the best promo code and automatically adds it to your cart get honey for free at join honey.com American that's join honey.com American remember years ago guy around the military Secretary of Defense. Donald Rumsfeld said kind of famously there the things we know the things we don't know and they're the things that we don't even know. We don't know the last kind of spooky category called the unknown unknowns.

1 (44s):
I guess maybe talking about known unknowns and unknown unknowns might have been appropriate for the thing. He was talking about which was Iraq and weapons of mass destruction. But who knew that someday? I was going to be a good way to describe the chaos swirling this you're around two of which should be the most pedestrian predictable things. The government does kind of go to an election and starting the school year. Okay, let's save the election for another day. Can we talk right now about the demolition derby multi-car pileup of known unknowns and unknown unknowns. That is the opening of this school year. Matt teaches at a big high school in the suburbs of South Carolina and all summer has been doing what parents and teachers everywhere been doing this year.

1 (1m 26s):
Wondering if there's going to be in person instruction this fall and watching state and local officials give out information that seemed incomplete and contradictory and confusing and it was sort of like hot potato of responsibility to it's like everybody's kind of passing. You know, like

2 (1m 41s):
when you hear from your District when you hear from the state superintendent when we hear from our government, you know, there are things like somebody else is going to set the course. And you'll know

1 (1m 49s):
yeah, it felt very deflective way. I guess when they got to the first day the teachers reported back to school now kids are yet just teachers that says things still seemed very unclear thinking surely when we get in the building. We're going to get the answers. The the answer is in the building where my bosses are. They're going to know and over the course of the week sort of having the veil lifted and realizing my bosses don't know anything more. Than I do about the start of school like my principal and I know the exact same amount of information at that point teachers have received an email with a tentative plan. But the emphasis was very much on tentative is principal noted quote things Change Daily.

1 (2m 35s):
The plan was called the a be plan and it was the hybrid point that lots of schools are doing students will be divided into two groups A and B half a come to school for two days while the other half would stay home and join online using Zoom then the switch. But if you wanna stay high school spinning through the Maelstrom of known unknowns and unknown unknowns. Okay here is what happened that first day the teachers came back. The first meeting that I go to is at 10:00 and it's a department meeting. So we have just 15 people spread out and you all are sitting there socially distance from each other wearing masks. Yep. There's a good atmosphere in the room. We're

3 (3m 11s):
all things considered. We're

1 (3m 12s):
happy to be there and happy to see each other a very glass half full Whatever May Come Sort of vibe in the in the room and our department head who's a teacher has written up these two plans on the board the ate a bead a sort of hybrid plan and then an all virtual start purchased Ram has students in the building. You're teaching everybody online. Got it. Yeah, we get a little into this meeting and there we have an administrator. One of our assistant principals is in the room and he's been mostly quiet but when we get to a conversation about How we get back into teaching he sort of pipes in and he says hang on.

1 (3m 53s):
He's like the eighth a bead a plan is out. Apparently they had received word from the district that our school needed to cancel that plan. So alright everybody like first change curve ball coming at 11:00 a.m. Like change of plans. Let's plan on

2 (4m 8s):
all virtual.

1 (4m 10s):
So to summarize 10 o'clock. It's a be eleven o'clock its own virtual or anyway, that's how Matt took it

2 (4m 16s):
Department Show told us he had no Idea, what would happen? So meeting ends then around 2:00 in the afternoon

1 (4m 30s):
word sort of spreads that there's this there's this bomb drop of an announcement and that administrator who had been in our meeting caught my colleague in the hall and he was kind of flustered and he said plans are changing again. We just got word from the district. So so it's just like wait for the staff meeting. Let's see what happens, you

2 (4m 50s):
know. Staff meeting is the big welcome to the new

1 (4m 57s):
school year all staff meeting for the whole faculty and starts at three o'clock about 250 teachers are on this is umm call, you know, we're all in our own rooms. You're on the building, but you're in your own rooms yes ones. Yeah,

3 (5m 10s):
and then like nothing happens at this

1 (5m 12s):
meeting. The whole meeting is Trivial information. They introduce new faculty members. They share positive news from teachers Summers like Babies are engagements. They talk about her SAT scores from last year all the things that we hear annually, but the fun to do talk about the restart plan. He says it's a lot of we can do it positivity but no concrete details about whether they be going all virtual or what the plan was going to be. So the meeting ends

3 (5m 40s):
and we're all sort of sitting there and thinking like what was it and

1 (5m 45s):
my colleague and I are determined to figure this out. So it's for now. We're like, we're going to go down to the administrators. Offices and just see what we could see and we we go to one of the administrators offices and there are two other assistant principals in there. It's pretty it's pretty jammed and it's sort of like the situation room and any White House action drama, you know, there's papers all over the table and everybody's on the computer and even for a few people are in the room. They're sort of talking past each other and their multiple conversations going on and my friend and I Kind of got that Vibe of like we're just gonna stand at the door, you know, we're not even going to come in wade into the water.

1 (6m 29s):
But what we find out is that in the afternoon the district apparently came back to the schools and was like, okay new plan you need students in the building on the first day of school five days a week at 25 percent capacity. That's all we're giving you figure it out. And so what we want the table are all these rosters of students and and scheduling and so there's some logistical nightmare Logistics a nightmarish because South Carolina mandates that every parent should have the option to send their kids to school for in-person instruction if they want or keep them at home for virtual learning if that's what they want, which is the kind of trying to please everybody solution.

1 (7m 12s):
That in practice is just enormously difficult to execute it means that there have to be some students in school five days a week, but of course So much space in the school for students with proper social distancing. So how do you figure out who gets to attend and who does not get to attend and what happens when you cannot give every family what it wants meanwhile in the classrooms at South Carolina heads towards first day of classes September 8 DJ's have to figure out how to do something that they did not do last spring when schools went on quarantine that figure out how do you teach a class that is partly at home partly in the room with you which is a particularly. It's really funny to think for choir.

1 (7m 54s):
It's a very difficult subject to teach virtually. Oh Matt, he's a choir teacher trying to sing in a zoom with other people is is just a nightmare because you can't even if you say like, let's clap at the same time, you know, it will you'll hear like a bunch of different classes because everybody's course, right? There's a little delay and that delay makes it impossible to sing together. Yeah not to mention that usually the software is built. It to identify who is speaking and amplify their voice and silence other people. So the only way to sing together is with everybody on mute and you know, what kind of reversals that and the 1/4 of the class is going to be in the room with them.

1 (8m 37s):
They can sing together in the room because singing in a chorus can be a super spreader event for the virus. Remember that choir near Seattle at the beginning of the pandemic where 52 people got sick even with mass. It's not safe. Which means singing together is the one thing you cannot do in chorus. Math classes are 90 minutes long. And right now he figures he'll teach the kids on zoom and the kids in the classroom together for half an hour at the beginning of it lecture style give out singing assignments to do at home. And then at the 30-minute Mark or something, I would probably dismiss those Zoom students say like, okay, you've got your assignments. I'll see you soon take the students that are in the room somewhere outside where we can be spaced out and actually practice singing with them weather permitting.

1 (9m 23s):
Yeah, whether forget we just we're going to have to just MacGyver the whole semester basically, you know, so you re engineering every part of your job like every single part of it exactly that the teachers have said this to me to the virtual teaching is making them rethink and re-engineer the most basic things they do in their jobs to get through two kids a second grade teacher in Chicago told me that she was still struggling to figure out how she was going to hold the attention of a bunch of seven-year-olds over video for the mandated three hours a day. I will live real-time. Instruction just like I don't even know if developmentally that's even possible for them to focus on the screen for that long not to mention what activities which you going to give these little kids to do on their own unsupervised by her for the hours.

1 (10m 6s):
They would not be on video with her choose spending weeks before school started every day on our own time. I'm paid to figure this out. It's been a few days since I've recorded that conversation with Matt and since then has high school surveyed the teachers and realized that so many of them wanted to stay home and teach from home that there's no way they can actually have 25% of the students come back for in-person instruction right now. It seems like they're only going to have enough instructors for fewer than 10% of the students. But administrators are still figuring it out. Of course, who knows how everything is going to unfold in.

1 (10m 46s):
when kids actually arrived anybody get covid will things be fine Matt know some teachers and states were school has already started what it feels like right now is going cliff jumping with your friends and our friends next to us are like, Georgia and Alabama and we're like one two

3 (11m 3s):
three, and we're like, I'll see you in four weeks as they're

1 (11m 6s):
jumping off because we want to we want to see what happens to to the other districts like I'm starting to see I have friends in Louisiana that are Teaching entirely virtually I have friends in Georgia and Alabama that are like posting their Instagram stories of plexiglass in front of their desk and like here we go,

3 (11m 26s):
you know, we're situation

1 (11m 27s):
where like you actually don't know what's going to happen and you're kind of worried but you have to deal with like parents and students and with them do you let them know your apprehensions or do you just keep like a big smiley face and they're like, it's going to be great. Do you just do feel like you're lying? Yeah, it sort of feels it feels a little contorted. Like I have teachers that are posting first day of school pictures as always and they sound bright and cheery and it's like can't wait to see my students despite. The challenges really excited to show them a great new year but underneath the surface these teachers on my friends, and I know these teachers

3 (12m 13s):
are terrified. And it feels

1 (12m 19s):
it feels Twisted this year because we really don't know what our safety looks like and what our students safety looks like, but you still have to be the boss in front of the class and be like, what's up y'all? So excited to hear let's go. I am going to put my best foot forward because I can't wait to teach kids and I love doing that but I'm scared less about what the year looks like, you

3 (12m 44s):
know.

1 (12m 48s):
I've never be easy Chicago At This American Life today in our program teachers students parents launch themselves into a school year that is beginning like none that any of us have ever experienced since the spring. Everybody has been anticipating the school opening like this out of this an asteroid that we've all been watching head towards Earth floating towards us tumbling towards us in space and slow motion and now it is finally

3 (13m 11s):
hitting and

1 (13m 12s):
we are finding out if it is just as bad as we thought it was going to be way better than We hoped we have stories from around the country of it going badly. And I'm glad to tell you in some places going surprisingly. Well, at least for now. Anyway, stay with us. Agua en masse Crusaders. So every first school started in Utah this month our producer Mickie me caught up with two High School teachers Clark is 33 Bailey's 26 the married and we agreed not to use the last names the joke that their Pillow Talk is reviewing each other's lessons for the next day Clark teaches art and photography.

1 (13m 52s):
This year's his sixth year as a teacher Bailey's a newbie about to have around classroom for the very first time teaching sophomore English. The two of them teacher different public high schools in Utah County south of Salt Lake City and they found themselves thrown into this really heated and ugly fight in the county right before schools open back up. Here's Mickey

3 (14m 15s):
Clark and Bailey our sillies fresh-faced enthusiastic teachers, but they spent the summer stressing about their schools reopening because covid cases had started surging in Utah. Both of them would have classes with as many as 40 students in them. The classrooms are too small to space desks. Depart and the windows they don't open Governor Gary Herbert issued a mask mandate for all K through 12 schools, which made them feel a little better until a county commissioner a guy named Bill Lee. He started lobbying against it. He thought it should be up to parents whether their kids wear a mask. He called it a quote compassionate exemption to try to drum up support. He invited parents to the commission's next meeting.

3 (14m 56s):
Suddenly. You were either Pro mask or anti-mask Clark and Bailey decided to go and support of masks but going into it. I was like is anyone really gonna be there? Like who's gonna go to like protest masks? Like I just thought like are there going to be 10 people there? I have no idea there were actually around a hundred people there. The meeting was held at the

2 (15m 19s):
county building in Provo and when Clark and Daly got there. They saw mostly mom's gathered outside some with kids hardly. Anyone was wearing a mask, but one family who was wearing masks. Bailey

3 (15m 31s):
they are like you should go in because there's like no one really in support of masks. And so I was like, okay I'm going in and I just kind of ran in the building. It was packed. There were Chairs set up with tape

2 (15m 44s):
across them for social distancing, but that didn't work. So well people were

3 (15m 48s):
just peeling off the tape and sitting down and people were just riled up you could like feel this energy that was really intense

2 (15m 57s):
and just wearing a mask in that space for the on your head and medially room was hot and crowded and a bunch of people without masks were Fanning their faces and we're good to go. All right, that's a county commissioner named Tanner Ange.

3 (16m 13s):
He was not happy about this

2 (16m 14s):
meeting. Hello. Everyone.

1 (16m 17s):
This is going to be this is going to be brief, I think. This is the exact opposite of what we need to be doing. We are supposed to be physically distancing wearing masks

2 (16m 31s):
and so all of our medical all of our medical experts are Department of Health. Everyone is encouraging us to do

1 (16m 46s):
that. This room is not complying with these Health guidelines this creates a health concern

2 (16m 51s):
for this meeting. So in a little over a minute the whole meeting was over. Okay, the meeting is adjourned. M stands up and walks out of the building

3 (17m 7s):
people in the crowd column a

2 (17m 8s):
coward then. Angel later tweeted. This is not a Parks and Rec episode. It's Utah County

3 (17m 19s):
government to him. This whole thing was just a political

2 (17m 22s):
stunt. The County Commission has no jurisdiction over school districts. They don't make decisions for them. It'd be like the sheriff's department holding a meeting to vote on the school budget. It didn't make any sense. But Billy the guy who wanted the governor to give a county a compassionate exemption from wearing math and another commissioner. They agreed to stay behind to listen to any parent who wanted to make a comment. Again, here's

3 (17m 45s):
Bailey at that point when I realized that people were going to be making comments that kind of pushed my way into the room because I wanted to make a comment she got in line for the podium there around 12 people ahead of her even more behind her mostly mom. One of them had a baby carrier strapped her test. I watch this meeting on a Facebook live stream. Most of the speakers accepted that covid is real. They didn't think it's a hoax. They supported hand-washing staying at home. If you're sick. I didn't trust the CDC

2 (18m 13s):
and in general. All the precautions seems overblown

3 (18m 17s):
some sounded like Libertarians there were tons of conspiracy theories like that Mom. Would the baby she said this thing I heard a lot of parents there say that CO2 and germs can get trapped in your mask and make you sick, which is totally false. You want our kids.

2 (18m 32s):
Their own

3 (18m 39s):
are all dirt for hours. She's saying do you really think it's good to breathe in your own drums for hours.

2 (18m 50s):
This myth is taken off in parent groups all over the country the American

3 (18m 54s):
Academy of Pediatrics. You can put out a statement to try and dispel it. And another conspiracy theory at this meeting that mask mandates will lead to more kids getting abducted and sex trafficked also not true. The fear is that kids are wearing masks they'll be harder to identify and

2 (19m 10s):
rescue members will continue for Friday because of a world are at home and online all day and be masked. It's a pedophiles dream come true Thomas Jefferson also kept coming up this pretty ironic way on my Facebook page Thomas. Jefferson said I could Dangerous Freedom over peaceful slavery. I will never be asleep no matter what it takes. Give me liberty or give me death. I mean that I will do whatever it takes to have Liberty. Thank you. Looking at all these parents Bailey and Clark

3 (19m 50s):
were alarmed worried that they might have to face classes of 40 kids who are going to fight with them about wearing masks. So daily, she got up to the mic. She was sweaty and nervous but

2 (19m 60s):
fired up she tells the crowd. She's a first year teacher who's already juggling a lot of

3 (20m 8s):
anxiety and she's scared that she'll get covid in her

2 (20m 11s):
classroom the crowd turns on her wearing a mask. Is a minor inconvenience if you can even call it that that's card doing some very teacher like shushing. Hey, I'm probably some

3 (20m 30s):
songs that so many people have

2 (20m 31s):
snapped your time. Be quiet shut up. It's like this for 5 minutes

3 (20m 40s):
and then Bailey finally under

2 (20m 41s):
speech and takes a little bow. On their way out of the meeting Clark feeling sheepish apologizes to the people that he told to shut up.

3 (20m 57s):
Like I've never been booed before and it was it was it was just wild to be surrounded by so many grown adults who were shouting at me calling me names like whoa. Hmm also re watching the video. I realized that I kind of did like a little bow after Wry laughter wry comments which is kind of embarrassing now, but it was just like it felt like such an outrageous experience that it was like almost comical but Bailey was also sympathetic to the parents in that room. She thought a lot of their hostility was coming from a place of fear, you know, like not wanting kids to have to be in schools where things feel like very dystopian and like the sphere that having to be masked is like going to Scare their children or something like that or impact them negatively.

3 (21m 52s):
I feel like those are reasonable points in some ways, but also not at the same time.

2 (22m 4s):
I

3 (22m 4s):
grew up in Utah County. I still have a lot of friends and family there. So I feel pretty safe betting that most of the people in that meeting were Mormon the majority of the county belongs to the church, but watching that meeting I saw something I didn't recognize Mormons yelling and other Mormons with total vitriol Bailey and Clark said they felt the same they're from the area to by the way. I know we're not supposed to see Mormon anymore versus a Latter-day Saints. But I just don't actually know that many Mormons who use that with each other. Anyway, right after Utah's Republican Governor Gary Herbert issued his mask mandate Church leadership in the state backed him up. They asked Mormons to wear face coverings in public calling it a sign of good citizenship immediately.

3 (22m 46s):
There was pushback I saw comments online about corruption and false prophets in the church that was mind-blowing. It's not like members never speak out against the church. It's just that I haven't seen it done so casually probe People were called massacres in massholes Governor Herbert called the parents who went to that County being foolish and you refused to back down from his mask mandate, which just enraged the anti-mask movement in Utah County even more they held another rally and told parents to tell their kids to fight back against their teachers Bailey and Clark wondered how widespread the feeling was and worried that some of the parents are fellow teachers at our new school would recognize Bailey from the county meeting and think she was a crazy radical video.

3 (23m 29s):
I had hit local news and it was a big deal. Have you thought about what you're going to say in your classes on the first day anticipating you might have kids who come from families that share some of the same beliefs of the people who were at the county meeting.

2 (23m 42s):
I really don't know what I'm going to say or how I'm going to approach that conversation. You really don't know what this is going to is going to look like when the school year actually starts and so we'll kind of see what happens then what if you get what if you get dude

3 (23m 55s):
I will bow and walk out. On the first day of school Balian Clark got in their cars and had it in opposite directions. Their schools are about a half hour apart. They both recorded voice memos for me while they were driving. Okay. I am driving to

2 (24m 21s):
school for my first day of teaching

3 (24m 26s):
ever in my whole

2 (24m 27s):
life as As an actual teacher, so there's kind of a mix of

3 (24m 36s):
feeling excited and also

2 (24m 38s):
nervous. Hopefully, I can remember students faces through their masks. The time is now 636 and I didn't sleep very well last night. I kind of tossed and turned worst case scenario today. Oh my gosh, I think I had a nightmare about that last night where everybody came in and just was touching each other and hugging each other and not wearing masks and I think there was a couple that was like making out the quarter by classroom just so much touching and so I'm hoping students will wear masks. A I'm hoping I won't have any major conflicts with students as they come in judging on the anti-mask hearing that Bailey and I went to I I mean all bets are off.

2 (25m 35s):
A students walk into his classroom Clark stands at the door to greet them and squeeze his hand sanitizer into their hands. Hey guys hand sanitizer coming in hot. There you go. Hey, dude hand sanitizer Clark describes. His teaching. Persona is dorky dad.

3 (25m 51s):
Once everyone is seated. He gives his warmup.

2 (25m 53s):
Okay? Hello everyone. Welcome. How are you guys feeling today? Are you feeling excited to be here raise your hand if you're excited. This

3 (26m 2s):
is awkward and a class of thirty six kids. Easier only a few of them raised their hands. He'd never taught a class. That was so quiet and somber

2 (26m 10s):
raise your hand if you're just kind of like stressed and sad with you. Is anybody feeling like anxious about wearing masks or feeling like I'm doing masks little bit Yeah. Tell me more you're bummed about wearing masks. It sucks. Tell me more. Why does it suck the student says, I don't know. I just don't feel like it sometimes

3 (26m 32s):
and then my dad talks about it all the time. I'm it's just to make people feel better Clark response. Definitely by first trying to validate the

2 (26m 39s):
student. Yeah, I mean from a medical standpoint masks are definitely not perfect. There's no like if we really want to prevent every single germ who has to wear full hazmat suits we'd have to be in a controlled environment. So masks are not 100% effective. However, they are effective in stopping the spread or slowing the spread of the East and and so I know People are really really frustrated by wearing masks because you know, they're uncomfortable and they're like make breathing hard and blah blah blah. I'm go even though they're not perfect. I think it's worth doing as a gesture of kindness or people who might have more sense of immune systems or more might be more at risk.

2 (27m 23s):
I'm just barely talking with a student who lives with her grandma and also works at a nursing home. And so she's trying to take every precaution to make sure that she doesn't get sick. So there are a lot of situations like

3 (27m 34s):
that little boy I little his class starts to open up Clark keep loving questions at them. Anybody here play sports the football player tells the room that is whole team wears masks for games and practice

2 (27m 45s):
a girl says she hates it. They need glasses log up about 15 minutes into this conversation

3 (27m 51s):
Clark uses the tactic that didn't work with the parents that the county meeting he tells them about his own anxiety,

2 (27m 57s):
but that's been one of my anxieties coming back to school as I don't have to tell somebody to wear a mask, you know like that that feels stressful to me.

3 (28m 5s):
And the kids they seem to get it Clark has two other periods that day and he starts these class with the same Soap Box feel never gets any push back the kids all wear their masks and nobody makes out after school Clark and Bailey crash exhausted on their living room couch with her dog and debrief about how their first days went.

2 (28m 25s):
The hallways were just kind of the Wild Wild West. Yeah everything went and so many students as soon as they left their classrooms, which is peel their masks off and like put it on their chin. I like or just like rip it off their faces and then as they like walk closer to me I'd say like hey masks and if I say, oh, yeah, sorry, I forgot and like hurry put it back on and then put it back on as they walked into my classroom. I mean, there's just no way that the homeowners can like see everything that's going on. Yeah when you talk about masks, how did you approach The Mask conversation? They walk in the door and they just like

3 (29m 1s):
you're like hi, and they're just like look at you.

2 (29m 5s):
Or they're just like hey, I'm just

3 (29m 7s):
like do you hate my

2 (29m 10s):
guts?

3 (29m 12s):
She told Clark she started class by showing them slides of Billy eilish wearing a lease mask and Beyonce wearing a mask upside down and in my first class. Everyone was totally fine in my second third classes. There were kids who like kept wearing them under their nose and I just had to keep being like if you're not wearing your mask over your mouth. Knows where your mask over your mouth and

2 (29m 37s):
nose. I had to call it a couple kids today because they just kept on letting them know stick out. And yeah. Hey Cody Josh and Josh also

3 (29m 52s):
there was a kid who was wearing a full yellow hazmat

2 (29m 58s):
suit with like a gas mask looking thing and I think it was like a joke. Okay, but it also was hard to tell

3 (30m 10s):
my friend to was his teacher

2 (30m 13s):
said that it looked like he was just dying in there like so hot and there is another girl wearing a mask in one of my classes.

3 (30m 23s):
Apparently. This is a thing that I didn't know about but she's wearing a mask that said virginity rocks,

2 (30m 30s):
so I don't know what that's about but it was funny to see that on a mask. That's the

3 (30m 36s):
extent of Utah's sex

2 (30m 37s):
education. It was a wild thing.

3 (30m 49s):
I don't know. I like was thinking about it after school today and I was just comparing like these sweet sophomore students to the parents who were in that meeting. I'm like, oh my God. - these cutie Cutie high school students are just like so nice and so willing to like just do this thing so they can be in school and like all those parents were just like losing their minds and being like so childish and unreasonable. I don't know. It just is really

2 (31m 26s):
nice a little bit. Yeah a little bit.

3 (31m 34s):
I don't know why.

2 (31m 40s):
Just really nice

3 (31m 41s):
students. They want to be out School the reality is that more than half a million people live in Utah County and only a hundred people were at that meeting the consensus among those parents is that they'll make their kids wear masks if it gets them out of the house.

2 (32m 9s):
Mickey make is one of the producers of our show

1 (32m 17s):
back to screen Times at Ridgemont High so across the country right now kids are facing the weird experience of getting to know new classes and new teachers all through Zoom. It's especially intense for kids who are jumping to a new school producer Aviva to kornfeld talk to some students who are making the jump to high school this fall and it is is a big job, right? It's one that causes a lot of anxiety and excitement in normal times. Now all of it happening online one girl told the people that you'd already thought through how to make friends at her new school. She said she had a plan to email kids to discuss homework and then she would try to kind of shift the conversation to other topics and see if they went there and if you ever talk to this 15 year old in Los Angeles Alex.

1 (32m 60s):
Hi men at the end of his very first day of high school about how he's prepped for remote learning with a bunch of kids that he

3 (33m 6s):
And now this week I'm painting my room actually just finished this morning. Why are you painting your room? Well last year in the spring when you know online school started in March or April believe it or not. A lot of kids made comments on my bright vibrant baby blue and orange room that I've had since when I was very young and I thought it'd be cool to have a multi multi colored room very bright. Um, wait, what did kids say they're just like nice room like oh that's that's a very neutral color. Just you know, sarcastic comments like that.

3 (33m 46s):
I mean, he's like, it's a very first world problem. You know that my room's not the right color. How old were you when you first painted it the bright colors. I believe I was like seven eight like yes, it's gonna be so cool and awesome. And now, you know here I'm 15, and now I just wanted a white room now. Actually I just finished this morning now. Is all the light gray I picked out and I actually like it a lot. My mom was a little sad because he knows I'm growing up and she was upset about that. What did she say? I mean she was like, I'm going to miss this room. Like remember when you picked that the colors and yeah, it's funny your mom. Your mom is upset that you're growing up and you're

1 (34m 27s):
like, that's the point.

3 (34m 29s):
Yeah exactly. Yeah. So you are on Zoom calls today. Did you look at your little box on Zoom? Yeah, how it looked? Yeah, I did I did. How did it feel seeing your room in the camera. It looked very good. I will say it looked looks very cool or just you know has happy about it. Did the other kids have childhood stuff in their bedrooms. Um, I I don't really pay much attention to it along with then not really paying attention to me. Which is weird because you know, even though we both know that it still makes us feel self-conscious about it. I probably didn't any sense.

3 (35m 10s):
What I'm trying to say is that I look at some of them but don't really, you know, like analyze the rooms like you didn't really pay much attention. Yeah, exactly looking at the other kids rooms and realizing you don't actually really care about how they look did it make you feel like it didn't matter if you had switched up your room or not. Yeah, it actually did sort of What's the first thing you saw today at school? I logged on and it was our whole grade. So around little less than 200. I'm not sure the exact number but he has a bunch of boxes most of the kids. I guess half the kids have their cameras on have had them off.

3 (35m 51s):
I started with my nan and then turned it off to be honest. Really why I guess it just a lot of other kids had that off like most of them towards. The end and I don't want to be like the one kid that had it on if that makes sense and he sort of take your cue from the other kids because exactly peer pressure. I guess

1 (36m 16s):
if you had a coin fast talking to Alex Hyman in Los Angeles, and he was one of the producers of our show coming out and I'm actually school that carefully did everything you could possibly do to prepare for students coming back and then first day And I'll go south in a way. Nobody ever expected that's in a minute. There's cargo public radio when our program continues. Support for This American Life comes from honey. We all shop online and we've all seen that promo code field taunt us at checkout. But thanks to Honey the free browser extension manually searching for coupon codes is a thing of the past just download honey to your computer shop like normal click the apply coupons button and watch the prices drop.

1 (36m 60s):
It's 100% free to use and installs in just a few seconds get honey for free at join honey.com. American that's join honey.com / American This American Life Myra glass today's program is about schools reopening this file. And can I say I've all the cataclysmic things that happened this past week around our country wildfires hurricanes are the shootings in Kenosha school re-openings was like on the calendar, you know, it's the one thing out of all those things that we knew would happen and had time to prepare for and still it's not feels like the whole summer has been an all-nighter for a test that we're having this fall and lots of parents.

1 (37m 43s):
Ends and educators are feeling very shaky about how the test is going to go how it is going is what we're documenting on today's show and we have arrived in at three of our program X3 future and perfect. This next story is from a High School in Tennessee, Maryville High School. This is one of the first in the country to open up and it opened his cases were rising in the area of the covid map that Harvard Global Health Institute maintains, the county is currently read as we get to the show in the air read The Institute says means that they are. At a Tipping Point for uncontrolled spread that's exactly the kind of situation that lots of teachers around the country have been saying would keep them from returning to their classrooms Maryvale. However is been at it for a month now.

1 (38m 25s):
So what's it like, you know, how are they holding up for a glimpse of the future that awaits many Educators elsewhere. They've cast and Bam talk with teacher named Stacy Travis Stacy is the kind of teacher people go to when they have problems a lot of the time their math problems. That's what she teaches one of the days. We talked she got a call in the middle of the day from a kid who wasn't even in school that year. He graduated. He was in his dorm room in college.

3 (38m 52s):
And so I call him back and he was like, I don't know how to solve this. Us and he shows me this paper and I said what class are you in and he goes freshman engineering and I said, I taught you how to solve that. He goes. I know that's why I called

1 (39m 6s):
you the decision to go back to school in the middle of a pandemic. It's a different kind of problem even before school have been there were cases. Some kids couldn't come in on the first day because they tested positive and she says a couple teachers have taken these extra precautions in their classrooms.

3 (39m 23s):
Like one has this it almost looks like the Old-fashioned bathtubs with the ring around it with the curtain where and it goes all the way around their

1 (39m 30s):
desk wait. So the teacher's desk is basically surrounded with like like a like a

2 (39m 35s):
clear

3 (39m 36s):
marker on PVC pipe,

1 (39m 39s):
even with all the masks and social distancing Stacy Says School feels kind of normal. Once they get started though. There's always this Menace that feels just off stage since the high school opened several students have tested positive. She gets an email every time we talked she had one student out awaiting. Results, it doesn't look like any of the students got the virus from school, but there has been one case in the district where it looks like a maintenance worker may have gotten covid from a colleague.

3 (40m 4s):
There are moments that it worries me and I can give you a specific example. I had a student ask for help and I had my mask on I have my mask on every time I walk up close to a student to offer help and he had his mask on but had below his nose. And I I was riding on his desk and we were talking to this problem and I could feel his breath on my arm. And that kind of made me have a moment of oh my gosh. She's breathing on me. Like I can feel the breath coming out of his nose onto my arm. And I after I finished helping him which I do this after a help any kid at their best I sanitize my hands, but then I also have some spray sanitizer and I just sprayed it down my arm, and I know it Really looked weird and I wasn't trying to make him feel uncomfortable, but it made me feel a little bit

1 (40m 60s):
better. Do you think about it the question of risk with math ever? Since you're a math person

3 (41m 11s):
as the risk of me catching covid.

1 (41m 14s):
Yeah, I don't know doing my

3 (41m 16s):
job. Yeah. Yeah,

1 (41m 17s):
there are this many cases this many positive cases in the community where this many people in school over this period of time I'm in contact with this number of them like you could do the numbers, you

3 (41m 27s):
know. Oh, yeah, I could definitely do the numbers. I don't let myself do the numbers because I think I'm just kind of realized that I'm probably I'm probably going to get it either. I'm going to get it from a student or I'm going to get it for my kid who got it from another kid. Yeah, or I'm going to get it from my husband who got it from one of the workers on his job site.

1 (41m 50s):
What do you think about that? Like it might be? Okay, but it might not you

3 (41m 54s):
know, I know I know it might be okay and it might not and it's again, it's one of those like the what ifs that I can't just let myself think about

1 (42m 4s):
at the kind of amazing degree of fatalism. Somehow we're at a place where simply by doing her job. She feels sure she's gonna get sick.

3 (42m 11s):
There are moments that I'm super scared about getting it. There are moments that I wonder if I do get it with what's going to happen to my kids, you know, they're of course, there's moments like that putting. I don't know. It's all of the conversations are hard no matter what way you look at it.

1 (42m 34s):
It's like the virus is this thing that you think about then don't think about then you worry that you're not thinking about

2 (42m 40s):
it.

1 (42m 49s):
I wanted to see what a class was actually like giving all this. Here's how things work. If your last name begins with the letter between a & K you come in Monday and Wednesday on Tuesday and Thursday you join the class by Zoom from home. If your last name begins with the letter between lnz it's a reverse Friday. Everybody is remote I watched on Zoom is Stacy taught some Juniors had a graph polynomials.

3 (43m 13s):
This is X going to positive infinity. And this is why going to positive Infinity. Does that make sense to you?

1 (43m 20s):
It seemed to go pretty well even for the kids who weren't in there.

3 (43m 23s):
Let me get a brave person from at home. He wants to talk through it who's going to end me up? Y'all Gonna Make me call and you aren't you I'll try it. Thank you Emma. I'm for being a brave soul. Okay what you got? Um, okay so

1 (43m 42s):
I know given how well it went. I asked her. Why not have everybody be remote why take the risk of doing anything in person. She said teaching online you miss a lot. It's much easier for kids to get lost. If they're in the room. She can keep tabs walk around look over their shoulders and lots of kids do way better if they're there in person. Interacting with other kids and with the teacher there are kids who need extra attention just that day. She'd help the student get through a test that he'd failed before despite trying really hard.

3 (44m 14s):
I got to tell him face-to-face that I was proud of him. That's different. Like he looked at me and I said way to go man and we fist-bumped and he had a huge grin on his face like he knows that I've got his back he had that Victory moment and that's the stuff that like that's why I feel a little bit on like a high like a these are the moments that I just live for

1 (44m 40s):
two. So happy happy shoes in school that day. She's there because the kids need her I think it's also true the

2 (44m 48s):
cheating them David casting down this one of the producers of our show. I

1 (45m 3s):
for the case of the well-prepared elementary school. So next we go to a school that was remarkably ready for the first day tenderly Summit Academy and Indianapolis. It's an elementary school a charter school pretty small fewer than 300 students and it was set up especially well to roll out all the new covid safety precautions and procedures because like I said Charter Schools the whole philosophy of the school from the kids all the way up to the principle is very regimented kids walk silently in the hallways. There's a Dress code super involve teacher trainings, but even a place that can prepare. So well something big happened that first day that nobody saw coming Stephanie Hwang reports for a website that covers education that I am a fan of it's called Chuck beat and for a month she watched and we summer prepare for the reopening and then was there when the kids finally showed up

3 (45m 53s):
gen Lee Summit started the year with two weeks of online learning, but this is the moment everyone's been waiting for the first day children are allowed back into the the building for in-person

2 (46m 3s):
instruction.

3 (46m 6s):
It's 7:30 in the morning and parents are already lining up in the parking lot drop-off has been shortened to a frenzy 30 minute

2 (46m 13s):
window to keep kids from gathering before classes start. I like a tiny first grader in a Spider-Man backpack named

3 (46m 24s):
Carlo Walks from the car to the front door where a

2 (46m 27s):
teacher leans down aiming a handheld

3 (46m 29s):
infrared thermometer at his

2 (46m 30s):
forehead. Missing your Sumter. Okay, it seems you one little click. All right, you're good to go. I'm standing with the principle of Tinley Summit David McGuire who's been planning for this moment for months

3 (46m 45s):
to get more than 200 children out of their cars and into the right classrooms and half an hour all while keeping a safe

2 (46m 52s):
distance,

3 (46m 53s):
but mr. McGuire's one of the most optimistic people I've ever interviewed. He doesn't like to worry or even use the word worry at one point. We're talking he calls it the W word. I

1 (47m 4s):
feel confident with our plan. You know, what again maybe They want it, you know, we see how the plan goes but I feel confident with the plan we have in place

3 (47m 13s):
though. He does admit to being a little W worded about the fact that they can't let parents into the building anymore and is concerned. They'll get upset when they can't walk their little kids in and as we're standing there we watch how a mom named Pam Lee navigates that new reality.

2 (47m 28s):
She's walking her sixth grader Nyjah and kindergartner nyesha up to the door. It's not yours is first in-person day of kindergarten Asia. Now he's going to be kindergarten right? All right, don't be good for Miss chance and right. All right. I will see you ladies later. Just come in now. You just pleased with her mom. I can't come in. Love you. Because you're okay.

3 (47m 56s):
Okay, as soon as she walks in the door and I usually turns around and she's just tall enough to pick out the bottom corner of the window in the door. She smiles big and waves to her

2 (48m 5s):
mom or her little face in the window waving

3 (48m 11s):
other parents also follow the new

2 (48m 13s):
rules and drop off goes without a hitch. The kids settle into their classrooms pretty quickly.

3 (48m 24s):
All that planning is paying off.

2 (48m 26s):
Mr. McGuire and I speed walk through the school and we see kids patiently waiting to use the bathroom where they're only allowed to use every other stall to maintain space. He points out a sixth-grade

3 (48m 37s):
class reading The Outsiders at their desks that have Shield set up on them. Like little cubicles the kids don't even fuss that much about wearing their

2 (48m 45s):
masks.

3 (48m 49s):
It seems like a smooth start to being back in school except for one thing as we pass by a second grade classroom. We both noticed that there's only a single kid in it. Mr. McGuire kind of breezes by continuing to walk and point out of their classrooms, but I stop and make him come back the second graders sitting in the middle of the room looking lonely and small behind rows of cubicle

2 (49m 10s):
desk just 1/2 plus great these days. No, but she's just got one. Yeah that girl yesterday. That again that

3 (49m 18s):
we continue down the hall other classrooms also have way too many empty desks on the first day back. A lot of kids are missing. 226 kids were supposed to show up for school today another 45 signed up to say virtual just after 9 a.m. David and the two assistant principal is get the actual attendance number from the school counselor in the hallway

2 (49m 51s):
that pulled in the three dots online so far which makes a hundred and five students

3 (49m 56s):
out of Just three days before this on Friday. Most of those students were in class virtually now over a hundred of them had disappeared. Mr. McGuire talk to one of his assistant principals about what happened.

1 (50m 11s):
Did we miss something this summer? Is it she said, what do you mean I said did we miss something that we why are there so many kids missing and she was like, you know, I don't know. We just we gotta find the right. We just gotta find out and I was just like, yeah, but I but I said we communicated right like we had it on the website we put on our social media. We sent ClassDojo. We use the power blast right? We did mail it so we did those things right

3 (50m 32s):
those things weren't enough. Mr. McGuire the dean the school counselor the office manager and a few teachers start calling parents trying to figure out why their children didn't show up. I tried to figure it out too. I talked to several parents whose kids were not in school that first day including Kira Leonard. The reason she didn't take her kids in I just wanted to make sure that there were going to be no cases Kira actually really wanted to send her two children back to school things are getting kind of wild at home. Like her seven-year-old daughter was sneaking out of And staying up all night and she's up snacking and eating whatever she can find. She didn't go to sleep until the sun was coming up.

3 (51m 13s):
She has a kitchen set in her room. I opened the freezer and there are the sprinkles to the cupcakes weren't you going - in the oven? What are you doing? It was I couldn't wait. That's why I was so for them going to school because it was just like the schedule was wrong. Broke it was like they were just doing whatever they wanted to do. They needed to get back on a normal routine at first Kira thought it seemed okay to send her kids to school. She went to a school orientation and thought the precaution seemed pretty sensible like the dust Shields and separate supplies for each student.

3 (51m 54s):
But then after I went home from orientation, I went to get the kids from my mom and that's when I explained to her and that what they have in place and she just Webbing from sure about it like not on that my grandbaby so I mean she sits up and watch the news all day. So you can just imagine what's going through her head. She's like nah, cuz she has to pick them up from school there with her after school. So I mean I couldn't argue with her not wanting to be playing Russian roulette with covid.

1 (52m 30s):
So

3 (52m 31s):
that's when I started. He's questioning it and I was like, well, let's just see how it goes the first day see if we hear anything. So after the first two weeks of virtual learning care kept her kids at home instead of sending them in to school for the first day back in person. I was torn I knew they needed to be in class it would help them more but I wasn't sure if I wanted them to be in with the first wave of kids that went back. She thought they could keep doing virtual learning but I couldn't get into the online classroom when the school called to check where the kids were. She explained why she didn't send them in they reassured her that things were going well so far and they asked if there was anything they could do to help get the kids into school when she told them it was hard to pick them up on Fridays.

3 (53m 20s):
They said that was fine. They could keep the kids an extra half-hour until their grandma got off work this plus the fact that there were no covid cases those first few days one over both Kira and her mother and I guess she just saying how much they Were willing to work with us and she knows as well that they need they need they need to be in school. The school is doing tons of calls like these including to another mother jameelah Williams who also kept her son Trey home that first day. She had a lot of worries that would have seemed small but suddenly seen big I start some more than one person. I spoke to three or four people actually. So what were the types of things you wanted to know from them?

3 (54m 3s):
I wanted to know about more about bathroom breaks because I know they go and grouped and I know some kids I watch their hands. I know my child sometimes doesn't wash his hands. So I was wondering how would they take care of that sort of thing and they told me that there would be frequent restroom break. The restrooms are cleaned my fingers after every section of kids go they throw I will clean it so that made me feel very good. She also worried about her seven-year-old feeling comfortable and safe in a classroom with plastic shields on the desks and everyone in face masks. Well, I didn't want him to be scared and they reassured me and I've seen pictures and it looks fine to me.

3 (54m 50s):
She was touched that so many people trees teacher the school counselor and mr. McGuire. We're willing to talk through her concerns, even the tone of their voices that they were confident and jovial signaled to That they felt good about reopening. So maybe she didn't have as much to be worried about it's a stunning amount of extra work for the school convincing parents one-by-one for their kids to attend the school. They're already enrolled in but this is what it took in so many cases by the end of that first week the school track down all but three of the missing students they convinced around 70 more kids to come in person and another 40 or so decided to stay online. Jameelah son. Trey went back to school that Tuesday.

3 (55m 32s):
Kira the mom who had to convince her mother. She sent her kids on Thursday. I just feel like you are having to make this decision that so many parents across the country are having to deal with right now. Yes, I was hoping that the other parents would make the decision for me so that I can write their kotel see how it was working for them and then see if it would work for

1 (55m 56s):
us. Mmm.

3 (55m 58s):
So I mean if it has to be the other way around so be it everything's fine no cases. No, sick children, no problems, but still just week to week. for us this difficult decision of how kids should return to school and so many places has played out like this the federal government left it to the state's the states left it to the schools and the schools left it to the parents and how are the parents supposed to know what the right answer is to any of this?

3 (56m 42s):
No wonder it played out the way it did it Tinley.

1 (56m 51s):
Stephanie Hwang, she's the bureau

2 (56m 52s):
chief of chalk. Beat

1 (56m 53s):
Indiana to either education coverage from around the country. Go to

2 (56m 57s):
chalk bead dot-org

1 (57m 5s):
at five The Leftovers course a big fear at every school right now is that they're going to start of classes in person in the fall, and then the virus will arrive and spread. Student teacher population endangering everybody and of course forcing them to shut down again. Go back to mostly virtual learning that I've been at the University of North Carolina this month exactly one week after classes began with 177 confirmed cases at the time the school ended in person undergraduate instruction and all students start moving out of the residence halls and go home kids a taken water clear out as a have clusters of coronavirus cases, keep popping up around campus in dorms and fraternities and sorority house and PR staffers learned Magothy and a listen a 20 or in unc's campus last Saturday and happen to be at the school paper the daily Tar Heel one of the papers editors Brandon Stanley got a text about the latest cluster the school's a that that point before the school announced it.

1 (58m 1s):
It was a dorm called Craig Craig just reported that it's about to have a cluster. So we got notification from a housing employee think that's all the high-rises and most of the first year. Residence Halls Craig is where I live. So that's really not exciting to know via text message. This is Not good as this past Saturday one of our producers Robin samian called Brandon four days later to see what happened

3 (58m 34s):
after Brandon hurt his dorm Craig had a cluster his mom called who wanted him to leave school. He said no Mom and he and some of his friends started texting on a group chat.

1 (58m 46s):
One of my co-workers said what in all caps one of them said me one of them said what if we come into contact with those people and they're going Whatever potentially spread it to their communities. One of them called us cluster Craig one of them was scared about getting tested. So she said if you see me having a panic attack getting tested know you didn't I talked about how I was scared to give the code the test to I said if you see me crying because that covid test poked my brain. No, you didn't

3 (59m 17s):
ultimately in the evening. He went back to his dorm

1 (59m 20s):
the parking lot outside. The building was just completely full and there was You know families moving out their students moving all their stuff. It was it was a lot of people and one tiny little area and they're kind of like walking up and down the Breezeway with like fridges and boxes and things like that. And you know, I had to walk straight into that because it's really the clearest entrance to get to the building. So I had to watch straight through that and straight into the main area where people were, you know, taking the elevators up and down and it sounds pretty crowded. I would say it was, you know, I felt

3 (59m 52s):
nervous he be lined to Room on the third floor talk to nobody by Sunday. All four of his suite mates had left Brandon does not want to leave UNC has said basically we know we invited you back but please leave Brandon is technically allowed to stay. He's paid to manage the dorm Ras resident assistants who clearly have fewer and fewer residents to assist Brandon has a bathroom to himself now canonized.

1 (1h 0m 22s):
Yeah. I'm hoping to stay and I'm hoping to keep my job because this is my livelihood right now. This is how I make ends meet. This is how I put gas in my car and how I feed myself and I'm really hoping that that doesn't disappear

3 (1h 0m 34s):
as of now Brandon in the 15 remaining Ras can stay but he sees the problem if the resident count gets too low the university and will terminate them and kick them out. So Craig a big fairly empty dormant for about 650 people a six-story building shaped like an X with an ABC and D Wing lounges in an elevator Tower in the center Brandon estimated on Wednesday there maybe 90 residents left. I talked to Brandon and his dorm room at a certain point. I asked him to please just walk into the hall for

1 (1h 1m 14s):
me and give me one second.

3 (1h 1m 16s):
Okay. I'm so curious if there's people out there.

2 (1h 1m 21s):
Yeah, let me constitutes a mouse.

3 (1h 1m 25s):
All right. Here we go.

2 (1h 1m 29s):
He leaves his room on the third floor. All the

3 (1h 1m 33s):
hallways are Outdoors

1 (1h 1m 34s):
breezeways. But like looking out like I can see like up to the sixth floor and down to the ground. There's literally nobody in the Breezeway not a single person on the volleyball court. I thought I just heard a door open, but maybe I'm crazy.

3 (1h 1m 49s):
What about the lounge? Are you close to the lounge? Yeah.

2 (1h 1m 51s):
Let me go to the oil. Okay, let's go. See nobody.

3 (1h 1m 56s):
It sounds so quiet.

1 (1h 1m 57s):
It is quiet there. The light is on. There's not a single person here. I'm walking into the basketball side.

2 (1h 2m 5s):
Now this person actually a person a student who is late and can't talk

1 (1h 2m 13s):
one student. I'm like looking

2 (1h 2m 15s):
out now

1 (1h 2m 18s):
at the basketball side kind of doing the same thing that I was doing on the volleyball side and I could like see up to the sixth floor and down to the ground and there's not a single

2 (1h 2m 25s):
person.

1 (1h 2m 27s):
Doesn't even look like the light is on and the movement

2 (1h 2m 29s):
rooms and this kind of just nobody he goes to the kitchen Nobody

3 (1h 2m 36s):
Does the entire fourth floor to nobody in August just before the school went online the daily Tar Heel ran a piece with the frustrated headline. We all saw this coming but not Brandon. He wasn't a skeptical of unc's Opening Clan and I thought that if there

1 (1h 3m 0s):
was an outbreak on campus that the university would lock down the building's locked down the campus Force everyone to quarantine. It's kind of like it's a snowstorm. I just thought it was going to be just like that. It's going to be like two weeks worth of a snow day for everybody and we were all going to be sick and it's going to suck but it was going to be okay enough. You know what I mean?

3 (1h 3m 22s):
You really had confidence in their plan? I did two weeks of quarantine. That was Brandon's backup plan for the university. The university had no such back-up plan for Brandon.

1 (1h 3m 34s):
They took I was I was I was talking I was shocked. I was like, are you serious? Like what was the point of touting the safety plans that you had in place if you if you had any sort of inkling that if there's an outbreak that you're going to send people home. I would love to be in the room where that happened and Sit down and listen to them say well if there's you know, 300 cases, we're just going to send everybody home because that's what they ended up doing is there's a little over 300 cases reported within a week and a half two weeks and they send everyone home

3 (1h 4m 9s):
you once we did a survey over the summer asking students if they go to parties this year over a quarter said, yes. Maybe that's the only thing the university needed to know

1 (1h 4m 26s):
Robin semien is one of the producers have a shop.

2 (1h 4m 30s):
Let's go.

3 (1h 4m 31s):
They

2 (1h 4m 35s):
how we me to run and play now those days are gone, but we keep on going on. One moving where it goes but program is preceded by a manual Barry and Diane. Whoo people fit together today show and could be made only of Bakers in the chip has to be able to

1 (1h 5m 7s):
kornfeld nor killed Amy engrave Michelle Harris at blind Niki me: and CC's there Nelson Catherine Romano. Naughty Raymond Robinson. Me and Billy Sullivan Chris trosset alamat. Tyranny and Julie Whitaker are managing editor Sarah abdirahman executive editors David

2 (1h 5m 20s):
kazdin bomb special. Thanks today to show Kofi Wiki. Man, Andrea Mitchell Sally goes a Peggy Fletcher stack

1 (1h 5m 25s):
Patrick Walsh your Wiki Floyd Lisa Pollock. Vincent. Col blue.

2 (1h 5m 28s):
Go John Ray be Karen Soto Kerry and George Breeze wake Lisa Nando, you know uniquely Andy Kenny America Billy Elizabeth

1 (1h 5m 35s):
friary

2 (1h 5m 36s):
wfyi Indianapolis, and thanks to the many many students parents and Educators recalled as

1 (1h 5m 41s):
we put together Today Show. This American life is to go to public radio stations by PRX the public radio exchange our website This American Life dot org, we can listen to any of our over 700. Alms for absolutely free support for This American Life comes from hey.com. He has a new take on email allowing you to screen emails just like you can screen calls give someone the thumbs up their lot in thumbs down and you never have to hear from them

2 (1h 6m 6s):
again. Try it for free @ H

1 (1h 6m 9s):
ey.com. Thanks as always your programs co-founder. Mr. Twain balladeer, you know, he has really been cracking himself up all this week with his prank him up with every single time. I sit down in the studio to record anything he says, The door open and yells.

2 (1h 6m 25s):
Hey, I'm Ira Glass back next week with more stories of This American Life.

1 (1h 6m 44s):
Next week on the podcast of This American Life. I

3 (1h 6m 47s):
don't know why we're here

2 (1h 6m 48s):
Sarah Palin her sister retrace the Trail of Tears the Raptor Cherokee ancestors took when the Cherokee Nation was forced West like I know it's an interesting story. And yes, we are always interested in our past, but I don't need sometimes. I wonder what good comes to that. I feel worse. I feel worse its history good for

1 (1h 7m 8s):
anyway, next week on the podcast and your local public radio station.