2 (1s):
Support for This American Life comes from Squarespace make your website your own with the ability to customize the look and feel settings products and more for a free trial of your new website. Visit. Squarespace.com American and enter American Squarespace. Think it dream it make it.

1 (22s):
Support for This American Life comes from

2 (25s):
indeed indeed can help you find great candidates. So you can focus on hiring the right person for a special offer visit indeed.com / American terms and conditions apply offer valid through September 30th. Emotion Truscott tries to explain how he's related to Thomas Jefferson. He says okay, he 73. He used to visit a great grandmother who used to visit her great-grandfather Thomas Jefferson's grandson. So there was only when I was growing up when I visit my great-grandmother was only one dead person between me and Jefferson when Lucien was a boy in the early 1950s just six or seven years old when we visit family and Charlottesville.

2 (1m 7s):
Sometimes they would drop him off with his brother at Monticello. Jefferson's home who even says it was before the place had been remade for tourists like it is today basically visitors who pay maybe a dollar and walk through the house, you know, my great aunts.

1 (1m 19s):
They treated the place like like it

2 (1m 21s):
was still the family home and we had the run of the place. We used to fill our pockets full of Pebbles from the walkways up there and go up on the second floor and third floor replacing crawl out Windows onto this parapets that are up around the top of Monticello. And drop Pebbles on the Torso are walking around the house and they a social behavior. Yeah, and and you're talking to one of the probably the only person you'll ever talked to in your life. That's actually jumped on Thomas. Jefferson's bad. I mean, we we would play on the bed we go through that little doorway and up the stairs into the closet, which is above the bed there and sit up there in the closet and one tourist came through The room we'd stick our faces out of the window up there and say Boo and scare them and we'd hide out of there.

2 (2m 18s):
And so you don't want no adult supervision at all. No, no adult supervision at all. We went through all the bedrooms and stuff up there. And then of course we'd play down in the basement rooms. And then of course what they call the dependencies which were the slave rooms that run under the two wings that run out from Monticello itself will be decades before the slave quarters are part of the Monticello tour illusion says, these are just empty rooms under the house. No furniture or anything else in them. He and his brother would explore and run around and you know play hide-and-seek or whatever little boys did it's amazing to me that the degree to which it felt like a family home.

2 (3m 7s):
Did it feel that way to you as a kid? You know, I have to tell you that all of this stuff in my family was just taken for granted these days. Of course nothing about the legacies of the founding fathers is taken for granted just this week a special committee appointed by the mayor of Washington DC called for removing relocating or contextualizing a bunch of monuments to slave-owning founding fathers, including the Jefferson Memorial and the Washington Monument, which by the way the mayor doesn't actually have jurisdiction over. Meanwhile, the president of course is put his arms around this issue right after he began his re-election campaign. He gave a speech at Mount Rushmore to make clear that he does not want to remove any monuments or rename any buildings or military bases.

2 (3m 51s):
But this great great great. Whatever. It is direct descendant of Thomas Jefferson Lucien Truscott. He's got a special perspective on this. He led the charge to convince all the other white descendants of Thomas Jefferson to either black descendants of Thomas Jefferson and do their official Family Association the black family members, of course Trace back to Jefferson and Sally hemings one of the people he enslaved illusion things that everybody needs to get real about the slave-owning past of some of the founding fathers. Like how do you feel about people taking down monuments of Thomas Jefferson? I think they ought to be taken now. I think that the great monuments are Thomas Jefferson is Monticello and I think it's an appropriate Monument because it actually puts Jefferson's life in context.

2 (4m 36s):
It puts his slave-owning as part of his has life and in context if you visit Monticello today, you get to see where the slaves lived you'll be shown we're selling Hemmings his brother John did would work in Jefferson's bedroom and study and so forth slaves built that place I never heard it slaves built that place when I was growing up, but it's talked about today the history of Monticello at this point is about half Jefferson history half slave history. I think that's a Offer it as a memorial it tells the story of the whole man.

2 (5m 16s):
Not just the sort of God like Thomas Jefferson. We've all been raised to venerate. What are we supposed to do with this shameful parts of America's past is being talked about so much today back in the early days of our Radio Show in the late 90s one of our contributors there. We vowed to destroy that took that on and is very Vivid and complicated way. She said out on the road with her sister Amy to visit the site of a historic tragedy one of our part of their own family hundred sixty years before that and we went to reply at this holiday weekend because the questions that IT addresses the things that it is obsessed with are all so much more talked about today than 22 years ago when she did that story from WBZ Chicago, it's This American Life.

2 (6m 7s):
I'm Ira Glass we take a road trip into Today stay with us. So sir valinor Sister Amy were born in Eastern Oklahoma and what was called Indian Territory before statehood that's where our story ends and salsa where it begins the road citizens of the Cherokee Nation like the parents which as you'll hear is important to the story. Here's a the opening - are story from 1998

1 (6m 37s):
being at least a little Cherokee in Northeastern Oklahoma is about as rare and remarkable as being a Michael Jordan fan in Chicago. I mean who

2 (6m 46s):
isn't guessing I don't need to explain that and 1998 Sports reference to many of you but I do have one note before we play the rest of the story and it's about the word engine. Sarah asked me to point out anyone hearing this today that our grandfather was born in Indian Territory before statehood and use the word engine has a term of affection his never derogatory. Okay. So picking up stairs part Cherokee

1 (7m 11s):
it goes without saying that my twin sister Amy is to accept that I have dark eyes and dark hair and she's a blue-eyed blond. And so our grandfather nicknamed me engine and her Swede. Here's a nice take on all this. I must point out that while my sister and I don't really look alike. We sound almost exactly alike and hint for listening to this story. I'm usually The Grouchy one. Here's a me. I mean those roles were assigned to us, you know, Indian and Swede because of the way we looked but it was also more like the things we were told about herself. Of and you know, she was the one who was given the Cherokee language book and I was the one who was always told how much alike.

1 (8m 2s):
I was to our Swedish grandmother and I think I was probably, you know, six or seven or something before I realized that I was Cherokee, too. We're a little French and Scottish and English and Seminole to typical American mutt. But the Cherokee and sweeter sides of the family were the only genealogies anyone knew anything about here's what we knew about ourselves Ellis Island Trail of Tears. And I think to a kid Trail of Tears the Cherokees forced March from the East to Oklahoma where we were born seems enormously.

1 (8m 46s):
Way more interesting just as a name. Even the smallest children know what tears mean and I think in my earliest understanding of where I came from I pictured myself descended from a long line of weepers with bloodshot eyes, the Trail of Tears between 1838 and 39 the US Army wrenched 16,000 people from their homes rounded them up in stockades and March them across the country. 4000 died Every summer when we were children our parents would drive us to a place about half an hour from where we lived called geology, which is the Cherokee word for Cherokee geology is the tribes Cultural Center.

1 (9m 30s):
There's a recreated Village and Museum and this was our favorite part an Amphitheatre which staged a dramatic Recreation of the Trail of Tears every summer. We watched Chief John Ross. Try like mad to save the Cherokee land back East. We saw his hot head, right? Rival stand watie rage off to the Civil War. We especially loved the death of the Phoenix and noisy magenta lit interpretive dance in which the Mythic bird would die only to rise again. We would get these programs or brochures and Sarah was kind of in charge of them and sometimes she'd let me look at them. She had a whole little file and you know, we would look through them and it was I mean I did take It to heart it was a story that was really tragic.

1 (10m 22s):
I have a sort of reverent feeling towards it and I think it's because of this play because this play was so serious and and told such a detailed story that it kind of took this place of significant like it was really important and it really

2 (10m 39s):
mattered.

1 (10m 44s):
Here's the measure of how important the Amphitheatre show was to Amy and me our father and our grandfather used to show us photographs of Cherokee leaders in books. But even now when I imagine stand watie, I picture the actor at y'all Auggie. So all my life, I knew I wouldn't exist but for the Trail of Tears and it struck me as a little silly that most of the things I knew about it were based on an Amphitheater drama. I haven't seen for nearly 20 years at first. I thought I'd read some books about it, which I did but then I wanted to see it feel it know how long a track it was I wanted it to be real. I enlisted Amy, perhaps you'd like to do all the driving a historical tragedy and five 14-hour days behind the wheel who could pass that up.

1 (11m 33s):
And so I fly from Chicago she from Montana and one spring morning we find ourselves in a rental car on our way to Northwestern Georgia the homeland of the Cherokee before they were shoved out to Oklahoma the place the Trail of Tears

2 (11m 48s):
begins.

1 (11m 52s):
The Cherokee territory went to encompassed most of present-day Tennessee and Kentucky as well as parts of Alabama, Georgia, Virginia and the Carolinas even before contact with the Europeans in 1540. They were a Proto Democratic Society. They built these enormous Council houses big enough to fit the entire tribe inside. So everyone could participate in tribal decisions. We're barely on the road an hour when we spot them. Ceramic ones 3 feet tall at a Shack on the side of the road Amy drives past them. We do a double take and we don't even discuss whether or not to stop she just backs up immediately and parks.

1 (12m 36s):
Are you of Native American

2 (12m 38s):
descent? I'm uh, I'm a Mexican from Texas I'm Texas.

1 (12m 46s):
And what brought you to Calhoun Georgia the work the eight little Indians, he's selling her of the kitschy TP, toting Plains Indians variety, which are probably a lot easier to sell than the stereotypical image of a Cherokee a tired out old woman tromping through the Trail of Tears in rags who wants that as a

2 (13m 7s):
lawn ornament. What who do you who

1 (13m 10s):
buys the some statues these Indian

2 (13m 12s):
statues people here from Calhoun around, Georgia. People here on Georgia love Indian.

1 (13m 19s):
Well after they got rid of them.

2 (13m 21s):
That's right. You found the truth are

1 (13m 34s):
the Cherokee especially the mixed Bloods were always your nerdy overachiever bookish sort of tribe and in the early 19th century, they launched a series of initiatives directly imitating the new American Republic in one decade. They created a written language started a free press ratified a constitution and founded a capital city. New echota was that Capital now? It stands in the middle of nowhere a Georgia State Park with a handful of buildings across from a golf

2 (14m 6s):
course.

1 (14m 18s):
New echota was founded in 1825 to call it the Cherokee version of Washington. DC's entirely applicable given the form of government the tribe established their they ratified a constitution based on that of the United States dividing into legislative judicial and executive branches. Its Preamble begins. We the representatives of the people of the Cherokee Nation in Invention assembled in order to establish justice ensure Tranquility promote our common welfare and secure to ourselves and our posterity the blessings of liberty.

1 (15m 0s):
Unlike Washington new echota is cool and quiet and green site manager David Gomez showed us around the grounds and Amy and I were unprepared for the loveliness of the place for its calm lushness. Its fragrance everywhere. Honeysuckle was In

2 (15m 16s):
Bloom. I like it here. It's nice. It's just peaceful and it's right for the for the atmosphere is right for what was going on in the story that we tell here, you know, it's it's a story that says Adding a lot of ways, but there was a lot of great things happening with the Cherokee Nation

1 (15m 35s):
the Cherokee along with the other South Eastern tribes who suffered removal to Oklahoma the Chickasaw up the creek the Choctaw the Seminole or one of the so-called Five Civilized Tribes. It was in 1822 that the Cherokee Hero Sequoia developed an alphabet inventing the sole written language of any North American tribe only six years later Cherokee editor Elias. Buddha not founded the Cherokee Phoenix a bilingual English Cherokee newspaper published at new echota. many Cherokee especially the mixed Bloods practice Christianity and because many of these lived as civilized Southern gentleman of the early 19th century, they owned prospering plantations, which meant they owned black slaves more than any other Native American tribe the Cherokees adopted the religious cultural and political ideals of the United States partly as a means to self-preservation by becoming more like the They hoped to coexist with this new nation that was growing up around them.

1 (16m 44s):
They weren't allowed to. Georgia settlers wanted their land and their gold which was discovered near New echota in

2 (16m 56s):
1829 and they're really progressing so fast at this time period the printing operation was going with their newspaper here things are things are moving so fast for them for a short while here it looked very promising, but because of the old the big demand for land the Fate has already been really sealed form in earlier years. The

1 (17m 25s):
tribe allowed Christian missionaries to live and work among them and to teach their children English the most beloved of these was the Presbyterian Samuel Worcester who built a two-story house at new echota which functioned as a post office school and rooming house. It's still there and David Gomez walks us through.

2 (17m 44s):
All right, we got some steep stairs here y'all hold on.

1 (17m 54s):
The state of Georgia which of all the southern states treated the Cherokee with the most hostility passed a number of alarming laws in the 1820s and 30s undermining the sovereignty of the nation. One of these laws required white settlers within the boundaries of the nation to obtain a permit from the state of Georgia Samuel Worcester refused to apply for such a permit arguing that he had the permission of the Cherokee. To live on their lands and that should suffice Georgia arrested Worcester and imprisoned him for four years Worcester appealed to the Supreme Court in the case Worcester versus Georgia became a great victory for the tribe the court under Chief Justice.

1 (18m 37s):
John Marshall ruled that the Cherokee Nation was just that a Sovereign Nation within the borders of the US and therefore beholding only to the federal government IE not under the jurisdiction. Shin of Georgia state

2 (18m 51s):
laws and Cherokee Nation was ladies, you know, they thought alright the highest court in the land of United States, you know, this government that we're trying to copy they've ruled in our favor. This is going to be good. Of course Andrew Jackson who was Pro removal from the early years. He had campaigned on that issue decided. He wasn't going to back the Supreme Court

1 (19m 12s):
ruling think about that what that means Jackson is violating his own oath of office to uphold the the Constitution Anyway, the state of Georgia was thrilled when Jackson thumbed his nose at the court and immediately dispatched teams to survey the Cherokee lands for a land lottery soon white settlers arrived

2 (19m 37s):
here. They show up two years later in 1834 with a lan Lottery deed and with Georgia soldiers saying, you know, I've got this land from the lottery get off of it.

1 (19m 51s):
One small constitutional violation that was part of the land grab George has seized the Cherokee printing press so they couldn't publicize their cause and win political support in States up north. The tribe was divided about what to do stay and fight or demand cash for the land and head West. No one exploited the split more than Andrew Jackson. And no one annoyed Jackson like principal Chief John Ross Ross was a Jeffersonian figure in almost every sense a founding father of the Cherokee Nation in its modern legal form. He preached Liberty while owning slaves an educated gentleman planter.

1 (20m 33s):
He was their Chief from 1827 to 1866 in his later years. He corresponded with Abraham Lincoln in his early years. He was such a weaver in the inherent Justice of the American system that he lobbied relentlessly in Washington DC believing that once the Congress and the president understood that the Cherokee were a virtuous sibling Republic that they treat the tribe fairly as equals. Once the state of Georgia began evicting the Cherokee and John Ross among them Ross wrote treated like dogs we find ourselves.

1 (21m 14s):
vagrants and strangers in our own country the vast majority of the tribe wanted to stay put and supported Ross but around a hundred men including Phoenix editor Elias boudinot not in his brother stand watie a hundred in a tribe of 16,000 met Buddha knots house in New echota and signed a treaty with the US government. They had no authority to do this called the Treaty of new echota. It relinquished. All Cherokee lands east of the Mississippi in exchange for land in the West.

1 (21m 54s):
They figured Georgia was already seizing Cherokee land. This might be the only way of the Cherokee could get something for it. John Ross whom the Georgia militia arrested so that he could not protest was stunned. He accused the treaty party of treason the rest of the 16,000 Cherokee signed a petition calling the treaty invalid and illegal. Congress ratified the treaty by only one vote despite impassioned pleas on behalf of the Cherokee by Senators Henry Clay and Davy Crockett. The tribe was given three years to remove themselves to the West.

1 (22m 35s):
Now we're standing at the side of Elias boudinot knots house where the infamous new echota treaty was signed.

2 (22m 42s):
Let's bring a 38 rolled around about life right now. And nobody was going anywhere Georgia and federal government. Thought they were going to have some problems and you had about 7,000 fruits come in forcibly remove the Cherokees from their Farms from their houses and initially rounded up and what we're known as force or stockades and then moved up into Eastern, Tennessee and He's from Alabama to three immigration Depots where they were then transferred or then moved out on the Trail of Tears and everybody knows it. So technically this is the starting point for the Trail of Tears For The Individual trick, you know Cherokees are really started at their front door wherever they were rounded up from

1 (23m 19s):
Amy and I want to step on it this patch of grass where the treaty was signed but we hesitate it's not a grave Gomez tells us but that's what it feels like. We tiptoe on to it this profane ground and then we tiptoe away. Perhaps we should be embarrassed by certain discrepancies between our Trail of Tears. And there's we are weak. We're decadent. We're Americans which means road trip history Buffs one minute amnesiac the next we want to remember except when we want to forget.

2 (23m 60s):
Pardon me boy. Is that the Chattanooga Choo Choo.

1 (24m 8s):
We register at the Chattanooga Choo, Choo be Chattanooga.

2 (24m 11s):
Choo choo,

1 (24m 12s):
it's a hotel now a gloriously hokey beautifully restored Holiday Inn in which the lobby is the ornate Dome of the old train station in the rooms are turn-of-the-century rail cars parked out on the tracks. We're in Giggles the entire night for the simple reason that the phrase choo choo is completely addictive. We try to work it into every sentence. What should we do for dinner? Stay here at the choo-choo we end up going out for barbecue saying this is good, but I can't wait. Wait to get back to that YouTube. We watch The X-Files in our train car commenting. Is it just me or is this show even better in the choo-choo? I send email from my laptop just so that I can write greetings from the Chattanooga Choo Choo exclamation point number of times.

1 (24m 57s):
I just said choo, choo 7 number of choose

2 (25m 1s):
14 They

1 (25m 13s):
to sadly we check out of the to to and drive across town to Ross's Landing. It used to be where John Ross is ferry service carried people across the Tennessee River, but in 1838, it was one of the starting points for the water route of the Trail of Tears. I stand on the sand and read a weathered

2 (25m 33s):
historical marker

1 (25m 35s):
established about 1816 by John Ross some 20 yards east of this point it consisted of a fairy warehouse and Landing Cherokee parties left from The Landing for the West in 1838. The same year the growing Community took the name Chattanooga and I'm sure there's no connection at all between those two points. That sounds so nice with left for the west by Beauvoir. I haven't mentioned that Ross's Landing also functions is Chattanooga's tourist center up the hill from the river is the gigantic Tennessee Aquarium and is IMAX theater.

1 (26m 17s):
The place is crawling with tourists a crowd so generic and indistinguishable from one another they swirled around us as a single

2 (26m 25s):
t-shirt.

1 (26m 29s):
A hundred sixty years ago thousands of Cherokees came through this site in the summer. They were forced onto boats and faced heat exhaustion and a drought that stranded them without water to drink in the fall. They headed west by foot eventually trudging Barefoot through blizzards. Either way, they died of starvation dysentery diarrhea and fatigue 1/4 of the tribe was gone. And here in the shadow of the aquarium, the Trail of Tears is remembered by a series of quotations from disgruntled Native Americans carved into a concrete Plaza. One of the citations from a Cherokee named dragging canoe is from 1776.

1 (27m 11s):
The white men have almost surrounded us leaving us only a little spot of ground to stand upon and it seems to be their intention to destroy us as a nation. Good call we're um, we're moving diagonally across the sidewalk and Andrew Jackson and 1820. It is high time to do away with the farce of treating with Indian tribes as separate Nations will step on that one. Sidewalks. They are symbolic of broken promises you making that up now it says right here are some of the pavers are cracked to symbolize the broken promises made to the

2 (27m 55s):
Indians. Hmm.

1 (27m 59s):
Most Americans have had this experience. Most of us can name things our country has done that we find shameful from the travesties. Everybody agrees were wrong. The Japanese internment camps or the late date of slavery's a volition to Mercury or partisan arguments about legalized abortion are the Enola Gay world history has been a Bloody Business from the get-go, but the nausea we're suffering standing on the broken promises at Ross's Landing is peculiar to a democracy because it Democracy were all responsible for everything our government does this is the letter from Ralph Waldo Emerson to President Martin van Buren in 1838.

1 (28m 41s):
A crime is projected that confounds our understandings by its magnitude a crime that really deprives us as well as the Cherokee of a country for how could we call the conspiracy that should crush these poor Indians are government or the land that was cursed by their parting and dying in. Vacations our country anymore. You sir will bring down the renowned chair in which you sit into infamy. If your seal is set to this instrument of perfidy and the name of this nation hitherto the sweet Omen of religion and Liberty will stink to the world. And the path ends.

1 (29m 22s):
With a quotation from an unknown survivor of the Trail of Tears who said long time we travel on way to new land people feel bad when they leave Old Nation woman's cry and make sad whales children and many men and all look sad like when friends die, but they say nothing and just put heads down and keep on go towards West many days pass and people die very much. We buried close by Trail.

2 (29m 54s):
That last passage especially

1 (29m 55s):
the part about when friends die bring us to tears and we just stand there looking off towards the Tennessee brokenhearted. Meanwhile, there are little kids literally walking over these words playing on them making noise having fun. We sort of hate them for a second. We asked a teacher whose with a group of fourth-graders why she isn't talking to them about Cherokee history and she says normally she would but it's the end of the school year and this trip is their reward. Word for being good. It sounds reasonable. I asked a me if she thinks these kids should share our sadness. Well, I think it's a sad story. It's like mean it's sort of like the Holocaust just you don't have to be Jewish to think that that's a definitely a sad part of history.

1 (30m 44s):
And I think the Trail of Tears is, you know, America's version of genocide and I mean it really it started right over there. You look like you're about to hit something. Still I can't take my eyes off those children. I envied them. I want to join them. I'm an IMAX person. I had been to an IMAX theater just weeks before I wanted to come on this trip to get a feel for this trail that made us but standing here at Ross's Landing. It hits me how crazy that is. Suddenly. The only thing I get out of it is Rage.

1 (31m 25s):
Why should we keep

2 (31m 26s):
going? I don't know.

1 (31m 31s):
I don't know why I don't know why we're here. I seriously don't like I know it's an interesting story. And yes, we are always interested in our past, but I don't need sometimes. I wonder what good comes to that. I don't some I don't think it makes me like more contented person at all. In fact, I think I feel really haunted by all of this and I feel very kind of weighed down by the paint part of me thinks this whole thing is a mistake and and I feel more knowing about it. But I mean it's not like this is a story where the more you know, the better your feet. You'll feel it's just the opposite the more I learn the worse. I feel and the like more hatred.

1 (32m 12s):
I feel towards this country that I still loves and therefore the more conflicted. And like the did both I just feel like all this anger at everything and they're standing next to this like stupid aquarium building like talking to Coast Guard guys. They're like ducks around and they're now there's a calliope and I mean, I don't know now, I just feel

2 (32m 39s):
like

1 (32m 43s):
I feel worse. I feel worse. There are only so many hours a human being can stomach unfocused dread. I was tired and confused and depressed and I needed the kind of respite that can only come from focused resentment in the Trail of Tears Saga. If there's one person you're allowed to hate, it's Andrew Jackson the architect of the Indian Removal policy and since the Trail of Tears pass through - Bill anyway, we stopped at his Plantation The

2 (33m 20s):
Hermitage Sarah vowell and her sister enter the enemy's bedroom. That's in a minute from Chicago public radio when our program continues Support for This American Life comes from Squarespace create a website to Showcase your work publish new content or announce your upcoming events or performances and make it stand out with designer crafted templates that are e-commerce ready and all mobile-friendly right out of the box start your free trial and receive a special offer on your first purchase at squarespace.com / American and use promo code American a dream is just a great idea.

2 (34m 3s):
That doesn't have a website yet. Make it a reality with Squarespace. Support for This American Life comes from indeed the most visited job site in the world with 73 percent of online job seekers in the u.s. Visiting indeed. Each month indeed can help you find great candidates. So you can focus on hiring the right person indeed gives you full control and payment flexibility over your hiring you only pay for what you need. You can pause your account at any time and there are no long-term contracts for a special offer visit indeed.com American terms and conditions apply offer valid through September 30th It's This American Life.

2 (34m 45s):
I'm Ira Glass today a program about the past and what to make of the past. We continue with the story of Sarah vowell and her sister Amy who are retracing the path of the Trail of Tears. They have just arrived. If you remember from before the break at the home of the president responsible for the trail somebody they hate and intend to keep hating Andrew Jackson Who incidentally is that when a President Trump's favorite presidents President Trump praised Jackson's portrait in the Oval Office. He spoken Jackson's home to commemorate the 250th anniversary. Jackson's birth, and that speed to cut out Jackson is a people's president like himself out for the Common Man somebody who defied the political class of his day. It was during the revolution the Jackson first confronted and defied an arrogant Elite.

2 (35m 31s):
Does that sound familiar to you? I wonder why they keep talking about Trump and Jackson Jackson and Trump. I know the feeling Andrew. So I pointed out earlier that today's program was first broadcast in 1998 in the years since Aaron Amy visited Jackson's home. They've updated the exhibit the museum there includes exhibits on slaves and on Native American removals that Jackson and acted there's an audio tour. The focus is entirely on the enslaved people who live there again from our original story. Here's her Val

1 (36m 7s):
the house and museum are closed to the public When we arrive because of astonishing tornado damaged part of we wanted to destroy Andrew Jackson and everything you represented seeing all those hacked up trees made me feel like someone had beaten me to the punch. God look at it. All the trees are down. The wrath of God and side there's no display mentioning Indian Removal because remarkably there is no display about Jackson's presidency Carolyn bracket showed us around the house a columned Antebellum mansion that looks like a cross between Graceland and Tara unfortunately for my Speights Brewery.

1 (36m 50s):
I liked Carolyn bracket. I felt bad for like she would Point into the library and say Jackson subscribed to a lot of newspapers before his death and I say, One of them the Cherokee Phoenix. She wasn't sure she wanted to show off the mansion's painstaking restoration all of the rooms that have original wallpaper. All of the paper was conserved and had to be cleaned with

2 (37m 17s):
eraser the size of a pencil eraser. So it was quite an

1 (37m 20s):
undertaking. The portrait of Jackson was finished nine days before his death. I think he shows the wear and tear of his life. Life in that portrait the one over the he looks like he's sticking his head out a car. I guess he wasn't wearing a minute are much better Carolyn guides his past the flower garden planted by Jackson's wife Rachel and into the family graveyard. There are a few piddly headstones and one Greco-Roman monstrosity with an obelisk rising from the center when you guess which one of these Grace's Jackson he actually had this And for Rachel and left room for himself, and these are other family members.

1 (38m 8s):
I probably look at if my backpack a book with the subtitle Andrew Jackson and the subjugation of the American Indian Carolyn and Amy exchange a worried look well, so I'm standing I'm standing here on I'm standing here on Andrew Jackson's grave and there is part of me as a person of partly Cherokee descent. That wouldn't mind that. Dancing on it. You know, I'd like to there's a letter that Jackson Jackson wrote and about the the removal of the South Eastern tribes. And this is his opinion on the on the south eastern tribes leaving their land doubtless.

1 (38m 53s):
It will be painful to leave the graves of their fathers. But what do they more than our ancestors did Northern our children are doing To better their condition in an unknown land our forefathers left. All that was dear in Earthly objects are children by thousands yearly leave the land of their birth to seek new homes in distant regions. And then it ends can it be cruel in the government when by events which it cannot control the Indian is made discontent in his ancient home to purchase his lands give him a new and extensive territory to pay the expense of his removal and some Port him a year in his new Abode how many thousands of our own people would gladly embrace the opportunity of removing to the West on such conditions?

1 (39m 42s):
There's something there's something sort of nutty about Old Hickory In this passage, you know, just the fact that that that he just thinks. Well to compare that removal of Indians from their land with the opportunity of his generation, you know to just go out west you think I mean, what do you make of that? Can you help me understand that mindset? Probably not. I mean the interesting thing about that era was that that they really felt that they were preserving This Is How They justified in their own minds.

2 (40m 24s):
Was that they were actually helping preserve it

1 (40m 27s):
that this was inevitable. It was sort of the early thought of manifest destiny that it was inevitable that this would happen interestingly to me is they never seem to think that we were going to settle the country all the way to the West all the way to California? So if they just kept moving everybody further away, they would suddenly get to a point where there wasn't going to

2 (40m 47s):
be any settlement which of course didn't happen.

1 (40m 59s):
We drive on into Kentucky towards Hopkinsville. When the Trail of Tears pass through Southern Kentucky and December of 1838 a traveler from Maine happened upon a group of Cherokees. He wrote we found them in the forest by a roadside camped for the night under a severe Fall of Rain accompanied by a heavy wind canvas for a shield against the inclemency of the Weather and the cold wet ground for a resting place after the fatigue of the day. They spent the night several were then quite ill and an aging man. We were then informed within the last struggles of death even aged females apparently ready to drop into the grave. We're traveling with heavy burdens attached to the back on the sometimes frozen ground and the sometimes muddy streets with no covering for the feet except for what nature had given them we learned from the inhabitants on the The road where the Indians passed that they buried 14 or 15 and every stopping

2 (41m 56s):
place.

1 (42m 0s):
John Ross's wife died in a place like this in Winter of pneumonia. She had one blanket to protect herself from the weather and she gave it to a sick child during a sleet storm. There's more it gets worse. I always knew the Cherokee own slaves, but they own them in the East and that they owned them in the west only in the course of this road trip. Did it occur to me that the has got to Indian Territory in the same manner as their masters on the Trail of Tears. Can you imagine as if being a slave wasn't bad enough to be a slave to a tortured Indian made to walk halfway across the continent?

1 (42m 46s):
They'ii Hopkinsville, we stopped here because it was on the map but pulling into town we saw signs for a Trail of Tears Memorial Park. We didn't know about it seemed like a good idea to go

2 (42m 58s):
there. You work here.

1 (43m 4s):
Mind if we bother you a second. Can you tell me about what the origin of this place is and why why there's a park here and who how it came

2 (43m 17s):
about Hopkinsville was a ration stop along the way on the Trail of Tears and the Cherokee camped here. They were here for a week or so. While they were here two of their Chiefs died and they're buried up on the hillside. She start here and walk up to the Grave area. There are three bronze plaques on each one of the posts the last one just before you enter. The grave area tells you about the two chiefs white path and fly Smith. The plaque nearest the grave

1 (43m 56s):
says that white path was one of the Cherokee who fought under Andrew Jackson in 1814 at the battle of Horseshoe Bend Jackson even gave white patha watch for his bravery in that battle a Cherokee saved Jackson's life which hints at the level of Jackson's betrayal of the tribe had a Cherokee not saved his life then white path and fly Smith might not be buried here beneath our feet. The graves are up on a little Hill you can hear the highway down below. But still, it's Serene up until this moment all the graves along the trail had been metaphorical all through Tennessee angry and I kept saying we're driving over Graves were driving over Graves.

1 (44m 42s):
But even then we just imagine them there under the blacktop off in the woods, but here the skeleton suddenly had faces specific Stories the grave Were real. It took the Cherokee about six months to walk to Oklahoma. We're doing it in five days every 10 minutes. We cover the same amount of ground they covered in a day. We drive with the sun in our eyes on back roads through Kentucky. We duck into a remote section of downstate, Illinois, Chicago and Fear To Tread a plaque marks the spot where thousands of Cherokee camped unable to cross the Mississippi because of floating ice we cross it in under a minute.

1 (45m 30s):
I know we're going fast, but it doesn't feel fast. We plod through most of Missouri stopping at yet another Trail of Tears State Park. There's Name for what? We're doing. It's called Heritage tourism which sounds so Grand like it's going to be one freaking Epiphany after another but after a while we just read the signs without even getting out of the car at the end of every day. We fall into our Motel beds wrecked. Day 4 in the morning, we plow through Arkansas we get to Fayetteville in the afternoon.

1 (46m 11s):
We have lunch with two old roommates of mine Brad and Leilani who take us to a little Trail of Tears marker next to a high school parking lot that looks plaque like, huh? On this site in the summer of 1879. They're camped one thousand Cherokees men women and children and route to their signs facing a semi circular arrangement of Boulders. Anyone who's ever been to high school would recognize it immediately as the place students go to sneak cigarettes or get stoned. And once again, it's striking how the two American Tendencies exist side-by-side to remember our past and to completely ignore it and have fun.

1 (46m 53s):
Look at how we treat all our national holidays don't we mourn the dead on Memorial Day with volleyball and sunscreen Don't We the People commemorate the Fourth of July by setting meat and bottle rockets on fire, which makes a lot of sense. When you remember that a phrase is weird and Whimsical as the pursuit of happiness sits right there in the second sentence of the founding document of the country. The most happiness I find on the trip is when we're in the car and I can Blair the Chuck Berry tape.

1 (47m 38s):
I brought we drive the trail where thousands died and I listen to the music and think what are we supposed to do with the grizzly past? I feel a righteous anger and bitterness about every historical fact of what the American Nation. It to the Cherokee, but at the same time, I'm an entirely American creature. I'm in love with this song in the country that gave birth to

2 (48m 0s):
it. Chicago

1 (48m 17s):
listening to back in the USA while driving the Trail of Tears. I turn it over and over in my head. It's a good country. It's a bad country good country Bad Country. And of course, it's both.

2 (48m 40s):
Welcome to Oklahoma Native America. I don't remember the signs you say that you know.

1 (48m 53s):
I think they used to say Oklahoma is

2 (48m 56s):
okay. It's about right to it's okay.

1 (49m 3s):
Across the state line where in the western Cherokee Nation and the maddening thing. The heartbreaking cruel sad cold fact is that Northeastern Oklahoma looks exactly like Northwestern Georgia. Same old trees same old grassy Farmland, the Cherokee walked all this way crossed Rivers suffered blizzards buried their dead and all for what the same old land. They left we breathe through Tahlequah the Cherokee Capital even though the Trail of Tears. Officially stopped their our Trail won't be over until we get to our hometown Bragg's it's about 20 minutes away and we plan on spending the evening with our aunts and uncles there.

2 (50m 2s):
I

1 (50m 3s):
wanted to talk to my uncle Johnny. My mother's brother it 74. He's my oldest living relative. I asked him about his great grandfather Peter Parson who came to Oklahoma on the Trail of Tears.

2 (50m 16s):
Twelve years old and he was he grew up here from 12 years old and he was a stonemason. And some of his work is still around Tahlequah, you're going up to the to the Village tomorrow. You'll see two to Big

1 (50m 35s):
columns. He helped he built

2 (50m 38s):
those he did. He help build those two columns C. They built that right after they came up here.

1 (50m 45s):
I didn't know that the columns he's talking about and there are actually three instead of two are the great symbols of the Cherokee Nation in the West for years. I've had a number Photograph of them stuck on my refrigerator door, they're all that's left of the remains of the Cherokee female Seminary the very first Public School for Girls west of the Mississippi, which my great grandmother attended everything about the journey until now has been a little world historical hearing that our ancestor help build. The columns is the first time I felt an actual familial connection to the story. I asked John a about our family in the Cherokee presence in Oklahoma. I asked him a lot of off topic questions about his service in World War Two mainly because I was dying too.

1 (51m 31s):
I was never allowed to ask him about it when I was a kid and then I asked him a mundane reporter Lee question about whether he thinks the state of Oklahoma has done a good job educating its students about American Indian history. He says yes, then jumps into a non sequitur about his own education. I haven't been able to stop thinking about since I just wish that I could

2 (51m 55s):
have maybe went to school a lot more. I ain't got no education. And that was one of my big faults. That but when I was growing up it took everybody to make it to make a living so I had to work there's always got a master's degree in education. Not the third great. You know that no

1 (52m 24s):
third great the third grade.

2 (52m 28s):
No kids about third or fourth grade. We didn't get no education. so what you learn? You can't afford to Forget You Know?

1 (52m 42s):
On this trip. I've been so wrapped up in all the stories of all the deaths on the Trail of Tears sitting there listening to my uncle asked what if I realized that there are lots of ways that lives are pummeled by history. If the Trail of Tears is a glacier that inched its way west. My uncle is one of the boulders it deposited when it stopped. He had to work the farm and then came the dust bowl and then came the war. All these historical forces board down on him, but he did not break. Compared to him compared to the people we descend from I am free of History.

1 (53m 23s):
I'm so free of History. I have to get in a car and drive seven states to find it.

2 (53m 36s):
It's good to to

1 (53m 38s):
to know to know where you from said to know where you were your beginning.

2 (53m 43s):
Is. It really probably don't amount all that much only just to oneself, you know has nothing to do with you getting out here doing your what you're going to do tomorrow or a week or two from now, but at least if you want to look back. You can look back maybe on this trip and say well I

1 (54m 4s):
was down in the area there, you know and were some of my ancestors originated from you know. Day 5 geology. He remember anything. What do you remember this? Yeah, don't you?

2 (54m 37s):
Yeah. We tell her once a year. I was calling her a lot smaller than I

1 (54m 46s):
remember. But remember them just being these arrows into the sky and they can't be more than what 20 feet tall. I think their

2 (54m 59s):
counters in there.

1 (55m 3s):
Look now, we're at this is the Amphitheater

2 (55m 5s):
entrance. Oh.

1 (55m 11s):
Here's where you get your

2 (55m 12s):
program. Look up

1 (55m 17s):
here. and where's the Statue of Sequoia ever? There's where the Phoenix would rise again. Over there over there isn't that a down there on the right? That's where

2 (55m 36s):
I

1 (55m 36s):
remember standing lady would like he was always throwing a fit really. Unfortunately due to loss of funding the drama here at geology won't be performed this summer. Amy and I sit in the chairs where we first learned about the Trail of Tears and talk about our trip. Our experiences were different. She minored in Native American studies in college. She not only owns a copy of Black Elk speaks. She could quote from it. And for her the trip was about empathy. You know, I've been like pretty close to tear sometimes just thinking about The pain or whatever like what the kids must have been thinking like when we were driving I just kept imagine like, you know the kids thing.

1 (56m 24s):
Where are we going? Where are we going? You know, like what is happening? I guess I've been sort of thinking about what it really must have been like. I've been thinking about those kids too. But the person I identify with most in this history is John Ross the principal Chief during the Trail of Tears because he was caught between the two Nations. He believed in the possibilities of the American Constitution enough to make sure the Cherokee had one too. He believed in the Liberties the Declaration of Independence promises and the Civil Rights the Constitution ensures and when the u.s.

1 (57m 8s):
Betrayed not only the Cherokee He put its own Creed. I would guess that John Ross was not only angry not only outraged not only confused. I would guess that John Ross was a little broken hearted. Because that's how I feel. I've been experiencing the Trail of Tears not as a Cherokee, but as an American. John Ridge one of the signers of the Treaty of new echota Once prophesized Cherokee blood if not destroyed will wind its courses in beings of fair complexions who will read that their ancestors became civilized under the frowns of misfortunes and the causes of their enemies.

1 (58m 1s):
He was talking about people like my sister and me. The story of the Trail of Tears like the story of America is as complicated as our Cherokee Swedish Scottish English French Seminole family tree. Just as our blood will never be pure the Trail of Tears will never make

2 (58m 19s):
sense. Survival Jupiter 2 version of this story about the Trail of Tears in her book take the cannoli stories from the new world. But in the years since she told the story on the radio, she has written a number of surprisingly funny books retelling some very Grim American history the wordy Shipmates about Puritans Book of Life. He had the book on Hawaii one called assassination vacation you just Google and you'll see what I'm talking about.

2 (59m 22s):
He's program was produced by Julie Snyder and myself the Nancy Updike Analyse Spiegel senior editor for the show Paul tough dreaming editors for today's show Jack hit Marquis, Rockland and console you reserve ow, but after not compact Hannah were dogged and Sylvia, we must additional help on this re run by a manual bearing or guilt. Diane wounded Matt Stone Nelson in that tyranny special. Thanks today to benwood Honey Schweitzer and Brad Summerhill Pat and Jenny Val and Sarah Sister Amy Lucien Truscott, the fourth who you heard of the beginning of the show talking about Monticello is a columnist. Sivan where The Monuments to Jefferson for the New York Times This American Life is to give it a public radio stations by PRX the public radio exchange our website This American Life dot-org.

2 (1h 0m 4s):
We didn't listen to any of our over 700 programs for absolutely free support for This American Life comes from Sitka salmon chairs the community supported fishery delivering seasonal shares of traceable sushi-grade. Wild Alaskan seafood or more about their small boat fleet find recipes and order at Sitka salmon shares. -.com / tal thanks as always your programs co-founder. Mr. Troy. No idea who today is hearing our program from Chattanooga and ask

1 (1h 0m 31s):
is it just me or is this show even better in the

2 (1h 0m 33s):
choo-choo and Ira Glass back next week with more stories at This American Life? Mexican podcast of This American Life in a world where a virus spreads across the country and movie theaters are closed one radio show decides to go where radio has never gone before to the movies. This is really a style of narration. I'm not suited for we bring you stories of films. I'm confident. You have not heard of getting a 1960s film about a pandemic that is the exact opposite of the pandemic.

2 (1h 1m 18s):
We're living through right now movie night next week on the podcast or in your local public radio station.