2 (1s):
Support for This American Life comes from peacock a most beautiful thing black boys and the sit-in Harry Belafonte hosts The Tonight Show. These documentaries are available to stream on peacock the new streaming service from NBC Universal sign up at peacock tv.com to scream now. Support for This American Life comes from indeed indeed can help you find great candidates. So you can focus on hiring the right person for a special offer visit indeed.com / American terms and conditions apply offer valid through September 30th. So many people who have films that they have watched over and over and I have never really gotten that I always feel like there are so many films that I haven't seen like why would I watch one again, but we getting these conversations and there always comes a moment where I'm asked.

2 (52s):
Well, what is the film that you've seen the most and then I have to admit it's the Poseidon Adventure. Which I know is not a good film. It's this 70s movie about an ocean liner that gets hit by a tsunami flips upside down and the passenger try to make their way to safety. It's part of an entire genre films disaster films that I've never gotten any respect like nobody thinks that these films as art but I loved it at a time when I saw it it felt big and it felt important and serious. And I remember it was very emotional. And the reason that I saw it so many times that this is the film that I saw more than any There was not because I love the film because of where I saw it.

2 (1m 34s):
There's on vacation. We didn't take any vacations when I was a kid, but on one of them we stayed at this hotel in Florida where the rooms had this thing where they offered a couple movies all day long. And this is so long ago in the 1970s like my sisters and I we had never seen anything like that like even cable TV was rare back. Then the Poseidon Adventure was the film that they offered and my sister Karen and I we ate it up that was the movie we watched. Over and over again. Yeah. So this is like a very important movie that Karen and her son Zach my nephew who we tried to explain this to recently. So we ended up watching it on TV like at night if our parents went out to dinner or if it was a rainy day.

2 (2m 15s):
Yeah, we loved it the way that I remember it is that is that the hotel just had this movie on a loop and it would just as soon as it would finish it would start again and the way I remember it is that every time we would come into the hotel room you could turn on the TV. And you'd be somewhere in the Poseidon Adventure that sounds Vaguely Familiar to me. I don't totally remember that but that might be right. Yeah, and I remember it having a lot of feeling. Do you remember having a lot of feeling? What does that mean having a lot of feeling like

1 (2m 45s):
right like I remember feeling a lot of emotions.

2 (2m 48s):
Yeah. Well it's scary and you know, you really invested in their journey to you know, Escape alive. I don't think I'm giving anything away by saying that sorta are here at the radio show these last few weeks. We've been talking about the random films that people have strong attachments to thinking that might be a good episode of the show and I started to think about the Poseidon Adventure

1 (3m 10s):
and I wondered what it would be like to see it

2 (3m 12s):
again. Like would it

1 (3m 13s):
have any feeling what any of it feel the way it did to me as a kid? What if we that way to Karen? So my sister and I we watched

2 (3m 21s):
it and I invited Zach to since he's the age that we were when we watched it back in the 70s. He's 13. I was 14 at the time Karen was

1 (3m 30s):
11 and I didn't want to say I did not

2 (3m 32s):
expect Zach to like it. Like he does not like a lot of films and right away very poor seeing let us know the kind of film we were in for a little boy visits the bridge of the SS Poseidon this ocean liner in the middle of a big storm and the little boy is greeted by the captain. Played by Leslie Nielsen who at this point had not made the career transition to parodying characters like this Captain

1 (3m 57s):
Shelby you picked a particularly fascinating woman to accept my invitation these waves don't bother you one served up to 18 feet. These look more like 30 35 to be exact. Wow surfs. Really mm. Oh my but so am I those lines

2 (4m 16s):
so cheesy? I didn't remember. Amber how when CD acting got in some places when Ernest Borgnine shows up. It's clear that the 1956 Oscar winner for best actor is not in one of his best

1 (4m 27s):
roles Lena you hear me?

2 (4m 30s):
Why is he so angry? We're gonna go seem to shout nearly every one of his lines in the film when they a kind of stunned me and I did not expect seeing the film again was how much of the dialogue I remember from decades ago, and I was also surprised to realize and I do not know what this is about me the lines that I remember the most are like The little comic zingers, you know, like when a crew member is asked if he's married. I know his corny response before he says

1 (4m 56s):
it no marriage for me. Mrs. Rosen. I've got a mistress to see something I did remember and remember

2 (5m 6s):
liking from the film was it this is an old-fashioned enough movie that producers tried to insert some big Ideas into the adventure. So rho means these big ideas are provided by Gene Hackman who plays a rebellious young priest and neck his big theological idea is a very convenient way helpful ones with people were about to be capsized in the middle of the ocean. God doesn't want you to wait for miracles. You have to take matters into your own hands.

1 (5m 30s):
Don't pray to God to solve your problems.

2 (5m 32s):
This is from a ceremony delivers early in the film

1 (5m 35s):
have the guts to fight for yourself. God wants brave souls. You watch winners not quitters. If you can't win at least try to win he comes back to this over

2 (5m 49s):
and over through the film rattling the passengers to fight on I love that a teenager that there was this idealistic guy with this principle that he's trying to live by and this idea about God that the film is testing and I have to say seeing it today. I still loved it that the put that in there anyway soon enough right at the stroke of

1 (6m 10s):
midnight on New Year's Eve the tsunami hits the boat flips the pot behind tips. The wreckage of the upside down New Year's party Gene Hackman convinces only eight passengers that they shouldn't stay and wait for God to send Rescuers but climb with him to safety please. God said come with me. They keep them back-to-back barely Escaping The Rising Waters. They go the ceilings of the rooms of the force that they walk on in the floors of the ceilings. There's a fiery upset on kitchen to go up slippery ladders and inverted staircases and by the time they started dying one by one. For Karen and me and even back. It's no joke. We're in it.

1 (6m 51s):
We care. You should just have a heart attack. Wait, did you just have a heart attack? Yes. Wow. That's pretty random. Heart attack. Not really. Think about the fact that she just did all that swimming and she's out of shape after. Mrs. Rosen the men she grandma in the film

2 (7m 15s):
does her husband discovers her dead body

1 (7m 19s):
all that guy's going to be so sad. I remember this moment. So I remember this to do really well. This was very affected. I've been really invested in this movie. It's sort of a good. You do feel very invested. Yeah, it's like I'm not sure what's going to happen next unlike most other movies. I'd wondered exactly going to feel the same big feelings that I felt for the film at his age and totally did. Wow. She dies. No, oh he dies, too. No, there were so close.

1 (8m 1s):
No better time to get the gene Hackman's big climactic speech to God. Are you one of us become honest way? No. Thanks to you is clear Poseidon Adventure. It does its

2 (8m 16s):
job and gets to you. The thing about the experience that Zach had watching the film and the one that I was having it's so different right for me. It was like walking into a room from my childhood home and finding it intact and exactly how I remembered it or we would get to a scene and I would remember things. I didn't realize I remembered his reason a name for that. We watch a movie together, you know, we think we're watching the same thing, but we are not for me. The Poseidon Adventure is Portal back to that vacation and being in that hotel room with Aaron and knowing those movie stars from other things they made and just that whole time in my life. I can't shows that that movie welcome WBZ Chicago is This American Life.

2 (9m 0s):
I'm Ira Glass today on our program after months of pandemic when so many of us have been staying home and seeing way more movies than usual. We thought he would our show let's do a movie night a show about movies and in particular we've cited to get people who've watched a film over and over who sees something in it. Most people don't think See films which they are an audience of one including Somebody went to Steve with the video online and somebody watch the classic Kids film over and over a film that so many of us have seen she loved it and only wearing years later as an adult which he team was only the first half of the film. Stay with us that one putting the he's in disease.

2 (9m 49s):
So back when pandemic first took hold a lot of people were watching or re watching the movie Contagion, which originally came out in 2011. Maybe you've seen it. It's about the deadly and fast spreading virus that is spread by respiratory droplets goes around the world governments fail to contain it. And I think we watch films like that or you know read books about the 1918 flu because the other is just scratches this itch where we just won some way to think about what we're going through right now and it's nice to just see somebody else go through. Version of it. One of our producers Sean Combs has never seen contagious but he found himself turning to this other movie movie about a virus that you probably have not heard of this a very different spin on the subject here Sean.

2 (10m 34s):
You won't find this movie on Netflix or YouTube or anywhere like that or at least I couldn't find it that way. I finally had to order a DVD from an online vintage movie store. It's clear. My copy was pirated off cable Skips a lot and like all of the contagion Geeks. I was floored. Some of the parallels to now especially given that this movie came out in 1968 more than half a century ago. For instance in this movie instead of a bat. The vector of the virus is a bird a toucan that stowed away aboard a Greek freighter somewhere near Central America. Then the boat docks in New York Harbor for inspection and the first mate alerts the military that a lot of the crew is sick

1 (11m 14s):
well have to hold a ship in quarantine indefinitely. If it is a virus. My guess is the brand-new and some kind of a mutation. Ain't no telling how long it will take to identify it. The toucan is still on board held in a makeshift chicken wire

2 (11m 26s):
fence, but then it gets loose flies straight into the City and starts infecting people just a few at first the mayor of New York an empty suit motivated mostly by money and poll numbers holds a press conference speaking into a microphone labeled WNYC public radio station in New York where I used to work weird.

1 (11m 45s):
There is absolutely no cause for alarm only 47 cases. I've been reported so far the however the Commissioner of Health recommends that you wear a surgical mask and you are out in public

2 (12m 2s):
now, he holds up a mask exactly like the one I wear every day

1 (12m 6s):
after the reporters leave though. There's deep concern and read the health commissioner and older Anthony falchi type

2 (12m 12s):
scolds the mayor for underplaying the threat everyone's facing

1 (12m 16s):
true. We got a light on the 47 a reporter to doctors, but but when you Feel good. You don't go to a doctor or knows how many more have it's a virus only has a life of ten days or so. You said so yourself? Yes, but somebody who gets it on the tenth day and as it for another 10 days in a week after he gets it he gives it to somebody else and so on theoretically could go on for years

2 (12m 36s):
soon. Everyone is screwing around the city in a mask to panic businesses suffer the presidential Envoy fast-tracks the development of a vaccine if it weren't for the 20-foot long cop cars and a line mod dresses. It feels like some of these scenes could have been shot in last weekend Except there's one major difference between this film and the Steven Soderbergh and contagion like reality were all living and because in this movie the virus it's not fatal. It doesn't even cause a fever or cough instead the main and only symptom is absolute Euphoria. That's it.

2 (13m 16s):
Everyone. It infects experiences unbridled happiness and Elation its victims began acting kindly to one another deferential. And just a couple days the city is transformed from this.

1 (13m 33s):
A no-good rotten stinkin to tell me when I came in God damn, right? I am. Oh you're shoving match Jonas. I

2 (13m 39s):
walk to this.

1 (13m 40s):
Good morning. Nice day, isn't it? I'm sorry. Pardon me. May I help you? The movies called what's so bad about feeling good. It's accommodate a rom-com really and it is not

2 (13m 56s):
a good movie, which is why you likely haven't heard of it,

1 (13m 59s):
even though the lead

2 (13m 59s):
actors are George Peppard from Breakfast at Tiffany's. The 18 and Mary Tyler Moore from Mary Tyler Moore

1 (14m 7s):
and they do a good job. Pretty much everyone in the cast is really skilled.

2 (14m 11s):
But the whole production is outlandishly camping and caricature istic.

1 (14m 15s):
There are a few very awkward choices

2 (14m 17s):
cartoon word balloons emerge from the toucans mouth sometimes when it's quacks was so you know what it's thinking. Oh and there's a schmaltzy AM radio theme song kind of a knockoff of Burt

1 (14m 27s):
Bacharach. What's so wrong with that? Happy sensation. That sense of utter Elation. What's so bad about feeling good people that said it's also a great movie the way that silly B movies can be so satisfying especially the Arcane ones that make

2 (14m 51s):
you feel like a kid watching adults mess up for the first time. I have a Greatest Hits list of them in my head wild in the streets without a just hippies waging a coup against the US government invasion of the Girls about a race of murderous women who are also bees both of which you can watch online for free. But since it's so hard to find a copy of this movie, let me just continue taking you through the plot and I kind of abbreviated radio aside CliffsNotes version for your

1 (15m 19s):
movie not going

2 (15m 20s):
enjoyment. So George Peppard and Mary Tyler Moore are Pete and Liz two characters who are tailor-made for this particular plot because they don't contain an ounce of you for you there brooding existentialist. Arty types that have dropped out of society living in the East Village, they'd be boyfriend and girlfriend if they believed in that sort of thing for no discernible reason or maybe because the script wasn't working and they had to fix it quickly. There's a lot of VoiceOver by these two

1 (15m 46s):
couple years ago. I just like the rest of you conformists. I was mad but sizing name on the door carpet on the floor and I'll sir headaches the whole bit. I wised up that phony world and came down here. So did Liz she was on the treadmill to I sure was? Uptown Supper Club singing schmaltzy songs to the drunks fighting to get to the top of the ladder and then my heart got into the act and somebody stepped on it pills to sleep pills to stay awake. Finally. I asked myself or what this was the answer

2 (16m 20s):
this being the communal building they live in with a tribe of other unhappy nihilists collecting unemployment. They all look a little like cave people at a gallery opening one of them spends every hour of every day completely enveloped inside of a sack. Occupation they call her the sack

1 (16m 35s):
since the problems of life for in soluble one should draw into complete isolation and live a life of total non involvement with other people. The sack is Right.

2 (16m 48s):
Meanwhile little ways down town the falchi and Commissioner of Health pretty quickly figures out how the

1 (16m 53s):
virus works and it has to be transmitted by respiration. All right, bird has to do is get within breathing distance of somebody and Pop Goes the Weasel

2 (17m 3s):
cue the toucan and flies into Pete and Liz has window one morning while they're sleeping loiters for a minute next to Pete's face and leaves Pete wakes up early and

1 (17m 13s):
heads up to the roof Liz climbs up after him concern. Come here. What happened? Come here. Look, In this cruddy pile of junk a flower Pete. What's wrong? What's the matter with you ever since I got up nothing strange kind of I don't think I explain it to you, but everything seems different. Hey listen To what the traffic? Kids laughing, you know why they're laughing because they're not old enough to read the newspaper.

1 (17m 53s):
You take a look at the front page and then try laughing the world has stinking hopeless mess. Oh eat your stick, you know, sometimes a high fever can make you feel this way. I feel great. That's what I mean at this point. It's worth noting why someone might want

2 (18m 12s):
to make a film about the need for Euphoria in 1968? Front page list is talking about would include headlines like Martin Luther King is slain in Memphis Robert Kennedy did police battle demonstrators in the streets. Also Vietcong storm u.s. Embassy. We were a nation at War both abroad and with itself the protests and riots in cities across the country and a presidential candidate running on a platform of Law and Order and also courting segregationist and given all that. You might

1 (18m 43s):
ask. What

2 (18m 44s):
is so bad about feeling good. Good, which is what the mayor in the movie wanted to know in one of the first crisis management meetings with his cabinet the running down the sentence for him until the virus stops people from brooding but it's worse than that.

1 (18m 58s):
Mr. Mayor 82% Not only stop brooding they stop smoking 93% Stop drinking what's wrong with that in terms of dollars and cents. It's disastrous. Our city is facing a drastic loss in income. From sales tax that's ridiculous 47 people drop in the bucket. But if this goes on check for a month by mathematical progression, as of New York will have the virus. You know what that means. It means a loss in cigarette and liquor taxes more than 180 million dollars.

1 (19m 39s):
A hundred and eighty million to Brady. What do you sitting there for get that bird? You're sure

2 (19m 44s):
Brady is the chief of police capture the bird they can extract its tissues come up with a cure and Stave off an economic crisis because of course, what's the most important thing a politician thinks of in a potential pandemic how to save the economy meantime Pete much to lose his horror has shaved off his beard cut his hair and his talking about trying to get his old advertising job back, which quick digression interests me. Because it's the opposite of subversive once these nonconformists get infected instead of dropping out they drop

1 (20m 16s):
in. Pete feels so good. In fact that once he figures out what's quote-unquote wrong with him.

2 (20m 26s):
He wants to share it with everyone starting with Liz in an age when all of us are actively avoiding each other's bodies like the plague because of the plague it's wild to watch someone actively trying to spread a virus like this

1 (20m 40s):
one little kiss you'll have it too. I don't want it is fun and kissed you like yourself in the morning. Have some kids come over the lawn and give up all

2 (20m 53s):
this eventually in a completely unbelievable moment that would never have survived the me to movement Pete disguises himself as an eyeless German philosopher and tries to pressure Liz into bed. Finally settling for a kiss. He exposes the rest of the gang to

1 (21m 8s):
they all shave cut their hair clear either Apartments the sack climbs out of her sack and the

2 (21m 15s):
toucan remarkably keeps coming back becomes their pet they call him amigo. Go at the same time the mayor is bundled off to an emergency bunker so that he doesn't get sick a TV reporter buttonholes him on the way

1 (21m 28s):
in tell me sir. Is there any truth to the rumor that there's been a spread in the epidemic an epidemic? Well, I only call it an epidemic after all we only have a hundred and eighty million cab 47 cases why then sir you visiting The Fallout Shelter just a routine inspection last Friday of every month. But today is Saturday sir better late than Ever

2 (21m 51s):
took me watching the scene a few times trying to figure out why it sounded so familiar and then I was like, oh,

1 (21m 56s):
yeah at the height of the protest outside the White House President Trump was moved for a time to the bunker something that hasn't happened since 9/11. I was there for a tiny little short period of time it was much more for an inspection. There was

2 (22m 8s):
no anyway, there aren't only 47 cases for long and that is largely due to the efforts of Pete and Liz and their friends they wage a campaign to spread the virus intentionally by subject. Huge

1 (22m 20s):
Liz and the sack volunteered a handout masks to their fellow

2 (22m 24s):
citizens breathing on them

1 (22m 25s):
first while the stock made sure that every mask was specially treated with the virus. I made sure that nobody got away without one. I was in charge of Transportation assisted by Conrad are specially was a Subway at rush hour with a biggest crowd for breathing in we were there breathing out. They breathe on peanuts and feed them to the pigeons Liz and another

2 (22m 47s):
friend get jobs as burlesque dancers and stick is Blowing soap bubbles into people's faces and in just a couple of days the number of cases explodes to about 2 million about a quarter of the City's population cabbies stopped in the middle of the street to let pedestrians cross in front of

1 (23m 2s):
them marriage license applications flood City Hall Pete and Liz is among them Barbershop lines are staggering people literally dance

2 (23m 11s):
in the streets with joy. It's a

1 (23m 13s):
disaster. Finally, the president's envoi is helicoptered into New York City to save the day

2 (23m 24s):
and frankly to save the movie It's Dom DeLuise from Blazing Saddles. Spaceballs Robin Hood Men in Tights Dom Deluise. I love Dom DeLuise he looms so large in my childhood comedy Pantheon. He's a comically funny Even In This Very not good film his character. Jay Garner Monroe is way more confident and bossy and conceited then he Capable he snaps his fingers at his aides uses the word repeat before repeating himself like a military General. Anyway, he heads straight to the bunker and tells the mayor and everyone that if the toucan isn't caught before the tally reaches 3 million cases, he's putting plans CC 27 into

1 (24m 7s):
effect. Bridges tunnels airports will be closed repeat code that one single person will get in or out of New York system in the road. Do you realize we have 52 conventions coming in next week conventions? Do you realize what would happen if this got to Washington Republicans agreeing with Democrats and vice versa? This bird could destroy our two-party system the very Foundation of our great democracy.

2 (24m 37s):
The tally board is a 2.2 million cases at this point. And this is really the final and maybe most alarming parallel between our story and real life as Monroe watches the numbers tick

1 (24m 48s):
upward he shakes. Head in disgust I was coming sure are sneaky. Oh, come on, you don't think for one moment that this thing is just an accident. Do you do you and that bird landed on that ship is position was longitude 82 latitude. 2424 not very far from Cuba. I take my word for it. That bird is a hook nose missile sand here. But you know who you know who did Kill Castro look at the facts when people get the bug they suddenly love the world. Now if you know who was getting ready to act up again, what would be better and to give Americans a sense of security a false sense of security and Euphoria?

1 (25m 36s):
Mr. Munroe, you're not suggesting. This virus was artificially produced in the laboratory. Yes virus Purdue laboratory. Yes medical impossibility just couldn't have happened. That's what they said about the power failure here in New York and 65. And what about the Asian flu? God came straight believe you me from Red China, of course, it's satire and in that way it's cathartic,

2 (26m 3s):
but when I got to that seen it suddenly felt like every other part of the movie had been an escape from what's going on. It's funny that one of the most ludicrous pieces of dialogue

1 (26m 13s):
is also practically a

2 (26m 14s):
quote we've heard in the news in 2020 and not as a joke.

1 (26m 23s):
There's so much more of the story left, but just to abridge so they finally managed to isolate the virus

2 (26m 29s):
amazingly because it's a movie they develop a vaccine like that day, but they still have to test it out. So they spray it in Pete and Liz has nuptial bed in the hotel room where they're spending their wedding night and set up a hidden camera behind the air vent everybody in the bunker the mayor the falchi character Jay Garner Monroe all of them sit and monitor the couple on a big screen as morning. Laughs Liz wakes up the Pete coming back from an errand. He's still

1 (26m 56s):
wearing his suit, but he's disheveled messy

2 (26m 58s):
hair smoking

1 (27m 2s):
morning God. I didn't hear you. couldn't sleep What happened coffee and cigarettes? I'm sorry, this is probably up and I'll go to breakfast. I don't want any. The Pete you really should eat something don't bug me

2 (27m 26s):
Jay Garner Monroe watching on the monitor from the bunker is psyched.

1 (27m 31s):
Well, he's back to normal it work duck. Not her. She doesn't seem to have changed of

2 (27m 35s):
this and I don't know what this says about me, but of all the scenes in the movie. This is the one I remember the most clearly from the first time. I saw it it actually kind of carried it around all of these years because it's genuinely so sad Liz looks like her heart is breaking. In real-time

1 (27m 55s):
don't ask me to come back. Remember what we had remembered cling to you're kidding yourself talk about goodness and kindness read the front page and try and find some. Pete I can't go back I couldn't live that kind of life ever again. Peach rugs, okay Drink your poison and I'll drink Mike. No doubt about him that was certainly a positive reaction

2 (28m 36s):
positive. There's a happy ending Liz decides to leave New York and move home. But at the very last minute she goes to say goodbye to Amigo the bird who's in a zoo now

1 (28m 47s):
and Pete's there too. They do that rom-com running thing. And just like that. They're back together the city's fuse the vaccine into the air via Factory chimneys and exhaust pipes and most of New York lives. Miserably Ever After but some people stay

2 (29m 7s):
Pleasant and uplifted because major plot twist 50% of the people who seem to be infected actually never got the virus in the first place the joy just rubbed off on them. And Liz was one of those people which is why she didn't get quote unquote better in the hotel room, which is actually the moral of the move. That happiness is a choice but watching the movie during this pandemic I drew another darker conclusion somehow that Wiggly weird jolt of recognition. I got over and over again what it felt like was this is how it goes when faced with a crisis like this governments will minimize the severity of the danger the value the wrong things of focus on the economy over people's lives and blame foreigners in an ugly xenophobic way.

2 (29m 55s):
I'm sure there's a version of America where the all that might not happen, but we're not living in that America right now and Pete and Liz weren't living in it either if it's possible for human beings to do the wrong thing. We'll figure out a way we're resourceful like that. John Cole is one produces of our show.

1 (30m 26s):
Man, I have the craziest dream I danced with mr. Clean and gave the White Knight a helping hand coming up. Okay, it's five o'clock somewhere. But in Wisconsin they're asking when it's five o'clock here. Does that really mean five o'clock?

2 (30m 49s):
That's a minute. Just go big radio when our program continues. Support for This American Life comes from peacock. The new streaming service from NBC Universal peacock has released three powerful And Timely documentaries a most beautiful thing black boys and the sit-in Harry Belafonte hosts The Tonight Show. These documentaries are available to stream on peacock the new streaming service from NBC Universal sign up at peacock tv.com to stream now. Support for This American Life comes from indeed the most visited job site in the world with 73 percent of online job seekers in the u.s.

2 (31m 30s):
Visiting indeed. Each month indeed can help you find great candidates. So you can focus on hiring the right person indeed gives you full control and payment flexibility over your hiring you only pay for what you need. You can pause your account at any time and there are no long-term contracts for a special offer visit indeed.com American terms and conditions apply offer valid through September 30th This American Life Myra glass today's program audience of one stories about people watching movies and watching some other things too and seeing something in them that other people do not we have arrived it at two of our program act too late registration.

2 (32m 12s):
So veritate political documentaries are not everybody's thing, especially if they are over five hours long and go straight to video one of our producers Ben Calhoun discovered one that he found pretty mesmerizing it concerns Kanye West as you Probably know Kanye West is running for president. He's not on the ballot in enough states to actually win the presidency, but he's in some key Battleground States including Wisconsin, of course a celebrity on the ballot where we siphon off at least some roads in Wisconsin. Both parties are scrounging for any little pocket of votes that they can get because as you may recall in 2016, Donald Trump won Wisconsin by just 23 thousand votes out of 2.8 million cast.

2 (32m 55s):
So any tiny wedge of votes could So we make the difference and determine who wins the state this time. Which means is the video been saw here use this five and a half hour video is of the Wisconsin elections commission deciding whether Kanye West we get to appear on the state's ballot in November. Wisconsin my home state it's like a lot of places if you're Kanye West or anyone who's not from a major party. You got to collect a certain number of signatures to get on the ballot in Kanye West Case a company flew in canvassers who started circulating petitions just one day before the signatures would have to be turned into State elections officials at 5 p.m.

2 (33m 36s):
So they collect and collect next day comes Tuesday, August 4th, and we arrived

1 (33m 42s):
The

2 (33m 43s):
deadline by p.m. A tiny moment cradled between 459 and 501 a speck on the surface of American history, but one that would spiral out into a marathon political debate. My name is Sam Jacobs. I'm chair of the Wisconsin elections. - we are here for a special meeting here. We are a couple weeks later. It's Thursday afternoon. The Wisconsin elections commission gets together to decide about kicking Kanye West off the Wisconsin ballot setting it's one that's familiar to a lot of people now zoom in Bel Air. Mr. Thompson here the camera toggles between the six Commissioners.

2 (34m 25s):
There's three Republicans three Democrats occasionally it flips to some of the staff. Running the show and Jacobs the commission chair a Democrat Jacobs gets right down to business challenge to West petitions. There would be a lawyer on each side. So first up representing the challengers the folks trying to bump West off the ballot. There's a lawyer named Jeff Mendel. He looks a little like a young John Favreau the actor has that podcaster Mendel appears in what looks like a cozy spot in this house. Thank you very much. May it please the commission the nomination papers submitted on behalf of mr.

2 (35m 7s):
West and is tid ball were untimely they were filed after 5 p.m. Statute 8.20 subdivision 8 section am says that nomination papers must be filed not later than 5 p.m. That is very legal way to say questions late an attorney for his campaign, but woman named Lane roulin. She rolled up to the building in an SUV. Before fives she shuffled papers around in her dashboard and then rushed in as a TV news crew filmed her and then delays all this out with the punch and Swagger of a prosecutor on a capital murder case. When really he's just talking about a lawyer walking through a door by her own admission attorney Rule and was in her car at 4:59 p.m.

2 (35m 52s):
That's in paragraph 6 of her affidavit on page nine twenty-eight of the commission materials his Rule and exited her car. Couple of seconds after five o'clock, you can see that in exhibit a to the red marker affidavit at 3 minutes and 4 seconds in the video what follows is a Zapruder film style reconstruction of this whole scene at the front door of the Wisconsin elections commission the moment when Wes lawyer rushed in with the petitions Mendel has stitched all this together from affidavits the TV news story and a video from a Democratic party operative who filmed all this. The not including a shot of his Apple watch for a timestamp is ruined entered the building.

2 (36m 34s):
No earlier than 14 seconds after five o'clock her colleague followed eight or nine seconds later with the bulk of the papers that left them no more than 36 seconds to walk the length of the first floor to wait for the elevator to ride to the third floor to wait for the door to open to walk to the main desk of the commission and to transfer the papers to the filing officer. That cannot happen in 37 seconds the staff memo reaches that conclusion on page 15 the papers were in the elevator and not in the filing clerks Possession It 501 maybe you've seen stories about how Republican fingerprints are all over Kanye West nebulous presidential campaign.

2 (37m 16s):
It was no attempt to hide them in Wisconsin the company that hired the canvassers who got West signatures. It's reportedly run by a republican operative. It did the same thing for him in Ohio, West Virginia Arkansas lean roulin lawyer who dropped off his petitions in Wisconsin. She used to work for former Republican governor Scott Walker and the Republican party of Wisconsin. She recently represented the Trump campaign in a lawsuit when the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel dug into who is listed on West paperwork had found one Republican activist and operative after another black officials in Milwaukee have accused Republicans of helping West candidacy as a Nickel and insulting attempt to divert black voters away from Joe Biden to a Donald Trump, Wisconsin Republicans have admitted that they've also conspicuously not denied.

2 (38m 7s):
It asked about the Republican attorney have submitted West paperwork a GOP spokeswoman told the newspaper quote. It appears that Kanye West made a smart decision by hiring an experienced election

1 (38m 19s):
attorney.

2 (38m 26s):
Back to the meeting the attorney trying to knock Westhoff the ballots goes through several other problems with Wes petitions. And then it's time for the 10-minute response from the West campaign. You may begin your time to argue. Thank you. Good afternoon, Madam chair elections commission staff and opposing counsel representing. The West campaign is not the lawyer who filed the petitions but a lawyer named Michael Curran. He looks unnervingly like billionaire Mark Cuban and you appears unfortunately back lit his face shade isn't kind of hard to see when you get started attorney Curran makes what I suppose is the argument that he has to make that walking in 14 seconds past the five o'clock deadline that's not actually late when we're talking about time periods.

2 (39m 15s):
No later than includes the timeframe in the reference that were used. For example, no later than Tuesday does not mean prior to Tuesday no later than Means all the Tuesday and to make five PM quote-unquote late. The proper language would be before 5 p.m. Or prior to 5 p.m. Or not later than 4:59 p.m. But no later than 5 p.m. Does include the full minute the question the West lawyer is posing is five o'clock of point in time or is five o'clock all the space between 450.

2 (39m 55s):
89 and 501 It's not actually such a bad question like April 15th is a tax deadline you get all day on the 15th file, right? The next plot twist happens when the first Republican takes his turn asking questions of the two lawyers. That's a republican named Dean Knutson is a former State lawmaker is a veterinarian Knutson sitting in front of this folksy painting that makes it feel like he might be in the waiting room of his Veterinary practice and he's noticeably skeptical of the West campaigns attorney five o'clock is five o'clock. So I I understand you're trying to make an argument that five o'clock is 501 but it just seems to me that you know, everything that starts with the for is is before five o'clock and five o'clock stew deadline.

2 (40m 48s):
Maybe I'm just common sense and not a lawyer, but that's the way it seems. Attorney current if you set a timer on your phone to go off at five o'clock, when would it go off? It should go off at five o'clock sharp as soon as the clock turned 255. 0000 so on. Yes. So if we had set a timer to go off at five. Would the papers have been in on time or not? Well, the first response would be that's for the filing officer to determine But to answer your question directly, but if Knutson doesn't seem to be toeing the party line the next Republican commissioner to ask questions, he seems more than ready to do the opposite.

2 (41m 40s):
It's your floor. Okay. Thank you on camera commissioner Robert spindle. He looks like he's being held captive in a supply room somewhere. He's against us. Wait wall that has nothing on it pretty quickly. He goes really big on the west campaigns argument that five o'clock means you have right up until 501, you know on your point about is is five o'clock 5 o'clock. I did a lot of time trying to plan something and there's no real definitive action over the next few minutes. I've been down makes a number of creative arguments trying to help the Kanye West lawyer. Like he says since the petitions entered the building at five o'clock and 14 seconds.

2 (42m 21s):
Both 14 seconds is less than half a minute. So that really rounds back down to 5 p.m. Sharp, right? Yeah. I mean that's just simply math in and around rounding type errors. So pindell also questions whether the West campaign team actually had to turn in the petitions in order for the petitions to be turned in it was I understand she and her assistant got on the elevator with a staff person just the three of them would you not consider that that could be Transfer of documents if they have time. That once the door close to the elevator to be clear spindle is contending that being in the elevator with a staff member and not handing the staff member the document is the same as being in the office and physically turning them in can I say there's something about how the action of all this plays out on Zoom with all the normal zoomy interruptions.

2 (43m 20s):
It feels intimate one commissioner keeps dropping off the call at one point. There's a cat but The pops into a frame next to a commissioner asking questions. And also when people go at each other, it feels more personal somehow because you just see them and they're in their homes like Ann Jacobs the chair a few times she gets into it with spindell's and you see her and what I think is for living room she's wearing pearls and she's sitting in front of a fireplace and what looks like a silver tea set. So it's way less like a debate in some random government building or whatever. And more like family members getting in a fight on the phone or something.

2 (44m 0s):
I'd like to make a friendly Amendment. I do have you can you don't have to take it out briefly but I like to make it friendly emotion that we substitute the motion that we already failed

1 (44m 13s):
in it.

2 (44m 15s):
I thought you said I could I'm sorry. No, okay. Just wait. But so I still haven't gotten to the most memorable parts of Spindel speechifying they started when he talked about covid. Would you sir agree that the pandemic has made life and everything else much harder? Yes in a situation like this where the pandemic makes things harder and where everything else is there's great efforts to in the election process to try and make the procedure easier for all the voters then would you agree that we shouldn't try and make it a little bit easier especially in gals essentially making an argument that democracy takes more time during a pandemic and so people should get more time to do things which let's just pause bendele for a second here.

2 (45m 6s):
Because the Wisconsin GOP has systematically staked out positions to do the opposite this year Wisconsin conservatives have fought the idea of giving more time for early voting and absentee voting in April Republicans also made it very clear that they oppose postponing an election due to covid including Roberts been Del who said covid-19 or Reason to postpone an election. Still spindle had one more argument Wisconsin Democrats switches, which is the people that are bringing this challenge. My question is what are they going to stop suppressing the black boat here they wish to take away from the black population an opportunity to take a black presidential candidate off the ballot and have a choice in terms of who they want to vote for.

2 (45m 58s):
You know, what's next in terms of trying to Suppress the the black choice. This is where the meeting truly bent my mind as if it would make sense for Democrats to suppress black voters nationally 87% of them identify as Democrats. I couldn't help but think watching this the here we are in the throes of the seismic election cycle one in which lots of people on both sides argue. The people in The Other Side, they're out to destroy the country. It feels huge. It's weird to think that the legitimacy of the election process over.

2 (46m 41s):
The coming weeks will hinge on what happens in so many rooms like this. I'm tiny screens like this with public servants and volunteers and campaign workers will be wrestling over rules and deadlines and signatures and postmarks this video. It's actually kind of a sneak preview and honestly, We'll be lucky if it looks like this meeting. absurd as it got at times I respect this so much these Commissioners are paid a little over $100 a meeting after read hundreds of pages of documents to prepare for this and they went around and around and around splitting this 14 second hair every which way for the vast majority of the time people were thoughtful and they were willing to step across party lines have that's what they had to do to get to what they thought was fair.

2 (47m 32s):
Mostly they seem like they were trying to do what was right. And in the end a very simple argument one out. It was President. Lots of it many people had missed deadlines in the past and whether by lot or a little they just couldn't accept it. I vote aye the motion is carried five to one and just like that Kanye West was off for the skansen ballot. The remainder of this video is worth mentioning. If you'll just give me one more minute here. I'll sum it up for you. Well Kanye West campaign made the headlines the next day the Wisconsin elections commission also made another decision that night one with the power to affect the outcome of the presidential race.

2 (48m 15s):
Also on the agenda that evening was a challenge seeking to bump the Green Party candidate off the ballot on something. That's really pretty technical see during Wisconsin's Signature Collection period the VP candidate for the green party seems to have moved so her address at the beginning. It doesn't match her paperwork. At the end Republicans were like that's nitpicky BS but the Democrats wouldn't budge and the end result. The green party was gone just like Wes removed from the ballot

1 (48m 49s):
and you don't have to look far to see the enormous Stakes of that decision.

2 (48m 53s):
You remember how in 2016 Donald Trump won Wisconsin by twenty three thousand votes that year the Green Party candidate Jill Stein. She got Thirty one thousand. It's in

1 (49m 4s):
Wisconsin. Ben. Calhoun is one of the producers of our show after this meeting the Kanye West campaign in the green party candidates both. Sue the Wisconsin elections commission

2 (49m 19s):
trying to get on the ballot

1 (49m 20s):
what's going to happen with the green party is still in the air, but the Wisconsin state supreme court has ruled against Kanye West Judge John Sakowski. Give the final word on the debate

2 (49m 29s):
over the meaning of time in his written decision quote the court believes that the time of The clock rings out five times is the moment. It is 5 p.m. Court use the analogy of midnight. There's a significant difference between 1150 9:59 p.m. And one second after midnight the passage of a second after midnight confers an entirely new day.

1 (49m 50s):
In other words quote the court finds the basically

2 (49m 53s):
five o'clock is five o'clock

1 (50m 2s):
Factory many as she ought to

2 (50m 4s):
understand what our producers Diane woo spent most of her life thinking that she did not have a unique and personal take on the film The Sound of Music Sound of Music after all everybody loves it. What's there to say and then she learned know her take is very different. I watched The Sound of Music all the time as a kid. It was one of maybe 6 VHS tapes. We had at home along with Bambi 101 Dalmatians and a few years ago. I was talking with a friend about how much I loved the movie growing. Up, and he said me too though, the Nazi scared me and I said what Nazis and that's when I learned I'd never seen the second half of the film.

2 (50m 45s):
It turns out the movie came out in a to VHS box set and I for some reason had only ever seen the first tape. My dad doesn't remember as I can take either

1 (50m 55s):
and why would you need one? The first half makes perfect sense

2 (50m 58s):
on its own? Here's the plot.

1 (51m 1s):
It's a movie about a woman named Maria who is sent to the The countryside to

2 (51m 5s):
babysit a giant family of children with a mean Dad the Von trapps Maria shows up bubbly fun and teaches them to sing and play and be kids all against the wishes of their father but the singing win him over they sing together as a family and finally at a party the kids sing a beautiful song for the guests farewell and after that Maria having successfully fix the family leaves just like Mary Poppins did when she fixed that family. And that's the end of the movie. I had very clear fond memories of the goatherd puppet show and the scene in the Gazebo where lisl the oldest daughter secretly met with the mailman she was in love with and they sang and danced and it was so romantic.

2 (51m 50s):
I had no further questions about any of the characters. So when I learned that there were 70 more minutes to the film. I didn't bother going to look for them The Sound of Music was a full complete and wonderful artifact from my childhood. I didn't want to taint it with Nazis. But when my coworker Lena who's producing this week's show and is a musical theater fan, which I most definitely am not when she found out I still hadn't seen the whole thing. It seemed her reticle to her. She couldn't let it stand so we watched it together over the Internet one Sunday afternoon, and I prepared to have a childhood memory either slightly enhanced or completely ruined. Before we started she had me predict.

2 (52m 30s):
What was going to be in the second half I want based on and this is based on my childhood memory and just like what I would like to see is it's the second half is just focused on my favorite two characters Liesl and the Hotmail man. I wanted to see their courtship and and then they get married and that's the end of that the movie. We hit play and started at the very beginning started with a part. I know

1 (53m 1s):
and the first half was more or less the simple Sunny movie. I remembered seeing the kindly and our nuns. Come on screen early on was like recognizing teachers. I had in elementary school Reverend mother sister Bernice. I simply cannot find her. How do you there? Is that gazebo skin when the mailman and Lisa will sing to each other I'm sixteen going on seventeen. I know that I'm nice then whirl around the Gazebo dancing. Oh my God, this still looks like so much fun. Watching now though. I saw a lot of things that I had

2 (53m 42s):
completely missed as a kid because as a child it apparently ignored anything that adults who are not Maria said to each other literally, none of that dialogue registered was like the mumbly grownups and Charlie Brown. My kids cells had edited full characters out of the film. I barely remembered the baroness who wants to marry the dad

1 (54m 3s):
just really is exciting for me Gail ugh being here with you. Trees Lakes mountains machine one is in a mall that is not what I mean and you know it

2 (54m 13s):
so any of their plot lines that were not resolved in the first half moot. I also missed of course how Maria and the dad supposedly fall in love the dad by the way was even meaner than I remembered just cruel to Maria turn around please what Act of

1 (54m 36s):
the dress to put on another one before you meet the children, but I don't have another one

2 (54m 40s):
and because of that I still had a lot of trouble squaring the idea that anything between the two of them was remotely romantic. He thinks he's in love with

1 (54m 48s):
you. But that's not true. They really spell it out. Yeah, buddy, you you must kind of a lot surely you've noticed the way he looks into your eyes and you know, you blushed in his arms when you're dancing just

2 (55m 5s):
now. The one romance that still sparkled was between lethal and the mailman. So watching again, I have to say the mailman was not as cute as I

1 (55m 16s):
remembered. It's the mailman.

2 (55m 23s):
Oh, he kind of looks like a Nazi rallies the mailman comes back later in the first half to throw rocks on weasels window that moment. I remember again so dreamy, but the one that followed was completely over my head as a kid.

1 (55m 39s):
I didn't see I mean, I didn't know you were. Heil Hitler Heil

2 (55m 45s):
Hitler Yeah, Heil Hitler the hero of my version of The Sound of Music who I'd hope the second half would center around. He was the Nazi also, not the mailman. Yes. He was wearing a uniform and delivering messages, but he was not employed by the Postal Service as my child self had understood. He was some kind of military messenger.

1 (56m 11s):
The first half is peppered with a few more hits like this that things are going to take a turn historically in the second half of the movie on easy talk about Austrian flags and something called an Amish loose, but all against the backdrop of the Glamorous party. So kind of easy to miss if you're seven. The last thing I missed as a kid the big title card that says intermission and yellow script that comes on screen after Maria closes the door. Maybe it was on the second VHS. Lena and I fast forward through the music at intermission and the second half starts. Oh my God, Lena. I can't believe there's more like a second movie for you.

1 (56m 56s):
And this is really weird. You haven't seen any of this 5 6. Seven like that does the second half starts? I suddenly feel like I have seen all

2 (57m 5s):
of this watching The Children Play Ball in their backyard felt strangely familiar 6. I'd spent so much time already with the Von trapps at their home that this new seen. It just felt like part of my memories this confusing Deja Vu sticks with me all the way through the scenes of Maria back at the Abbey. It's not until the dad goes to meet Maria at the Gazebo and declare his love for her that I'm certain. I have never seen this before.

1 (57m 32s):
Do, you know when I first started loving you? That night at the dinner table when you sat on that ridiculous Pinecone what? Are you the first time you blew that silly whistle? Oh my God. Oh my love. This is so gross.

2 (57m 53s):
They basically just stared at each other three times and now Maria was letting this horrible man. Marry her I could not believe it. Just as I'm settling into the newness of the second

1 (58m 3s):
half gawking at Maria's wedding dress everything in the movie shifts the Nazis roll into town. It's incredibly abrupt a cut from literal Wedding Bells to a bell tolling over a giant swastika flag on the Town Square lines of soldiers march across the plaza ominously the colors seem to drain out of the movie The Children show up next in drab Brown close against the Stony backdrop instead of their perky curtain outfits. The first half

2 (58m 34s):
the characters meanwhile are dealing with their own Whiplash Rawls surprises, lethal as she's getting into a

1 (58m 40s):
car weasel weasel. Yeah. Well, I'm basically as excited to see Ralph as weasel is

2 (58m 48s):
right here because maybe this is when we get to the version of the second half, I'd been wanting to see Ralph in Leeds courtship.

1 (58m 55s):
Well, I'm so glad to see you. It's been good afternoon. You will take this please and deliver to your father. As soon as he comes home.

2 (59m 3s):
Ouch Ralph. He's standing in front of a Nazi flag weasel is clearly disoriented, but still hopeful as he holds the telegram and coyly asks,

1 (59m 13s):
don't you want to come over tonight and deliver it yourself? I'm not occupied with more important matters and your father better be too if he knows what's good for him, but Rolf Ali so you chose the bad

2 (59m 27s):
one. This was the only relationship in the movie that interested me at all as a child and it's sobering to see the whole realistic Arc of it. As for the rest of the second half it's predictable. You know their first Escape isn't going to work out. It's obvious. They'll burn the singing contest great songs from the first half Ray just recycled in a weird way. The one moment that moves me though doesn't have anything to do with the characters. I was attached to from the first half. It happens surprisingly when the Dad starts singing a love song to his country on stage

1 (1h 0m 10s):
every morning.

2 (1h 0m 16s):
He's doing it as an act of dental Defiance that makes the Nazi officials must Twitch and as the crowd joins in with

1 (1h 0m 23s):
him, I feel my throat catch a little

2 (1h 0m 26s):
they remind me of people all around the

1 (1h 0m 28s):
world this summer in Hong Kong. They wrote Belarus here in America who are longing to hold on to something as their own countries change rapidly excruciating lie around them.

2 (1h 1m 2s):
The darkest moment of the movie is perhaps at the very end when the family has almost escaped but then Ralph Fiennes them in the Abbey. He raises a whistle to turn them in but the dad stops and reasons with him.

1 (1h 1m 13s):
You don't really belong to them. Stay where you are. Come Away with us before it's too late Ralph look scared and boyish. He relinquishes his gun and leans over

2 (1h 1m 28s):
relieved but then the dad takes it one step too far. You'll never be one of

1 (1h 1m 33s):
them. lieutenant Ralph chooses to betray them. It's such a Sinister and dissonant seen held up against the cotton candy first half the family still makes it out in time, but in spite of him not with his help. And that's the actual end of the movie as far as I know today.

2 (1h 2m 2s):
So here's my conclusion having seen it all you don't need the second half. It's actually better without it. The second half just takes one of my kids helps favorite characters Rolf and makes him a villain then takes the worst character the dad and makes him a hero. There are barely any new songs Maria disappears as a person lisl just looks uncomfortable the whole time trying to act like a child for another hour everything memorable and iconic about the movie My Favorite Things the kids singing. Goodnight doe a deer that'll happens in the first half. But then I was at the beach this weekend with her friend staring at the clouds and the kids throwing sand and he said a thing that changed my feeling about the second half.

2 (1h 2m 48s):
He told me that lately he can last about three minutes feeling like everything is normal before he remembers it isn't. It made me understand the urge to include the dark end of the story and the movie about the singing family because once everything in the world has changed, you can't really will it to stay outside the frame. Diane who is one of the producers of our show your mom by the way, where's Diane? Saw the second half of the film as a child, even if Diane doesn't remember it up for the kid Nama stays in the picture.

2 (1h 3m 35s):
So today is about people who watch a film and then have their own very particular take on it. Not long ago. I learned about somebody like that here. She is in Harry Potter glasses in a onesie with a Gryffindor Crest on it giving her version of the first Harry Potter film. We meet Terry

1 (1h 3m 51s):
age 10 living in a house coming up to stand take your feet wide arms out and above your head house pose. Harry lives at number four privet drive. This Jamie are more

2 (1h 4m 4s):
the huh. Stir yes, yoga instructor of a series of videos called Cosmic Kids Yoga viewership of these videos skyrocketed during quarantine from about a hundred thousand views a day to about a million and a lot of her most popular videos for kids are her retelling the stories of children's movies Moana or trolls or Star Wars and combining the stories with yoga the spring during quarantine. I watched a six-year-old regularly and very happily do yoga for a half hour with these YouTube videos before starting his day a remote learning first grade. I went by and I would just sit totally caught up in these videos and I have to say a lot of my pleasure and complete fascination with them was seeing the Ingenuity and the Jamie Amor uses to incorporate the poses into the storytelling like for example of warrior pose for Elsa making snow and ice and Frozen forward bands as Alice in Wonderland leans over to take a drink from the bottle that says drink me on it in The Wizard of Oz when the tornado arrives Dorothy is on her bed in

1 (1h 5m 4s):
Post of course look out the window. There's that mean lady from the village. She's riding a bicycle in the sky lying on your backs criss cross your fingers a single person horse had a son to a sauna your legs and peddle your legs like you're riding a bicycle. She's cackling like a witch. She's not riding a bicycle anymore. She's on her broomstick with a black hat. She really is a witch coming into broomstick pose lying on your tummies. Everyone Locust pose salabhasana take your arms down by your side and lift your feet and chest up at the same time going.

1 (1h 5m 48s):
Videos are actually structured like a real yoga

2 (1h 5m 50s):
class. Are we starting with the sitting pose and Namaste and always ending with shavasana resting pose? Not you all the way down.

1 (1h 5m 58s):
I need to the videos plays

2 (1h 5m 59s):
like a little half hour yoga appreciation of movie though. They're all kids films. So, you know, Jamie emerges kid friendly tone matches it perfectly but putting together today's program. We wondered what it would be like if she took on a film that's made for grownups and beloved by grown-ups not by kids. So we reached out to her. her and her husband Martin who makes these videos with her and they were into it and we considered a bunch of different films turn into yoga Silence of the Lambs and Pulp Fiction and parasite before we settled on This film Timmy. I'm more prepared this for us Thelma and Louise are best friends.

2 (1h 6m 39s):
Let's do a hug pose wrapping our arms around our shoulders like we're hugging our best friend. They set out for a weekend away in the mountains to take a break on the way. They stopped for a cold refreshing drink at a bar Thelma dances with a man called Harlan coming into our dancer pose. Standing on one leg. We catch our foot with our hand behind us and lift it as we reach forwards with our other arm. Harlan wants to do more than dancing with Salma, but she doesn't want to Louise finds them and is so angry at Harlan that she shoots him in the chest coming into our shooter warrior pose standing one foot forward one foot back.

2 (1h 7m 27s):
We Bend our front knee and open our arms wide. Wow. Thelma and Louise with off in the car coming into car pose sitting with legs out long arms forward to hold the steering wheel. Oh, dear. What have they done? On the road the women meet a handsome friendly young man called JD Thelma rather likes JD and invites him for a sleepover. In the Morning JD wakes up coming up to stand reaching our arms up to the sky we wave and say hello, son and while Thelma and Louise go to breakfast JD steals.

2 (1h 8m 9s):
All of Louise's money. Oh dear Selma feels really bad. To fix the situation Thelma decides to become a robber and steal all the money from a nearby Market. Naughty Selma now the police are after them. Thelma and Louise arrived at the Grand Canyon coming to stand in our Mountain pose standing with our feet hip distance Arms by our side. We become a still and strong as the mountains. They take a breath together.

2 (1h 8m 51s):
Soaking up the incredible View and the piece of this place.

1 (1h 8m 57s):
All of a sudden helicopter Thunders interview jumping our feet wide and clapping our hands up over our heads but dust Swirls and the sirens scream arms wide. We spin side to side to side. They're trapped Selma looks at her best friend. Listen, let's not get caught. Let's keep going. Louise checks is salmieri. Sure. She notes. Louise cups Selma's face and kisses her cupping our faces to feel our cheeks Louise steps on the gas stepping one foot forward as the car screeches forward Thelma and Louise class pans the car lies off the cliff coming into our flying pose lifting up our back leg balancing on our standing leg and taking our arms out wide we're

2 (1h 9m 59s):
flying After all that action, we're ready to relax now. So we lie down and let our bodies feel heavy. We close our eyes and take a big deep breath. Give me a more our yoga videos for kids that makes movies in yoga. But also there are ones which makes video games and yoga and all kinds of other things are at Cosmic kids.com or find a free YouTube channel youtube.com Cosmic Kids Yoga.

1 (1h 10m 44s):
This is probably lying and Greta Garbo is probably crying while throb with Taylor is like a nerd I embrace Raju and chaplain and Lloyd are all stupid be careful. We're bringing my spirits Day by venomous cities and nor Gail people put together. Today's show

2 (1h 11m 12s):
include Susan Burton Ben Calhoun

1 (1h 11m 14s):
did and shivashankar Damien grave Michelle Harris Hannah. Joffrey was Seth Winstone Nelson. Naughty Raymond was a ship Christopher's with Powermat. Tyranny and Diane who are managing editor Sarah of drama. An executive editors David

2 (1h 11m 24s):
kestenbaum special. Thanks today to Jason smart David Selassie. Hung Yen, Jung

1 (1h 11m 29s):
chanwoo green along with be a Parker Adrian shirk Paul Scheer Luke, Sophie and Olivia and Cecil Ranieri This American Life is do very public radio stations by PRX the public radio exchange our website where you can listen to any of our over 700 shows for absolutely free This American Life dot-org score for This American Life comes from all birds at sustainable shoe. Brand All Birds goal is to make products that do right. Your feet and the planet learn more about the sustainable practices and find your repair at all birds.com. This is those dragons co-founder mystery about Tia who says he has

2 (1h 12m 5s):
one rule about drinking during the pandemic before 5 p.m. Or prior to 5 p.m. Or

1 (1h 12m 12s):
not later than 4:59 p.m. I'm Ira Glass back next week for more stories of This American Life.