1 (1s):
Support for This American Life comes from Capital One Capital one's banking app lets you manage your money anytime anywhere Capital One. This is banking reimagined. What's in your wallet Capital One and a You know what's weird about the presidency or you know, one of the things that's weird. They all have to live in the same house all the presidents. Here I think about that like okay when you win the Super Bowl like if the Patriots won the Super Bowl the previous year, you don't go and live and Bill Belichick's house. You don't drink coffee every morning in his kitchen watch TV in his rec room at night. That would be strange.

1 (42s):
It's a personal living in somebody space. I think a President Trump for so many years. He said Barack Obama shouldn't be president said he was born in the United States. He still picking fights with Barack Obama today. There. Was that White House Correspondents Dinner the trumpet ended back when Obama was President.

2 (59s):
Donald Trump is here tonight ribama mocked him all kidding aside. Obviously, we all know about your credentials and breadth of experience. For example No, seriously, just recently in an episode of Celebrity Apprentice at the steakhouse. The men's cooking team. Then Trump wins the White House and moves in and has to sleep in Barack Obama's old bedroom.

1 (1m 32s):
Use the same bathroom in the morning. And at least at the beginning you must picture the previous guy there right now and then okay at least

2 (1m 43s):
once. It's weird that we make the most powerful man in the world do this.

1 (1m 50s):
Sleep in the bedroom of somebody who might hate somebody might really see as an

2 (1m 54s):
enemy. But you know, that's a peaceful transfer of power. Herb is not too partisan. Say a few kind words today about the peaceful transfer of power from one person to the next. We also believe in that

1 (2m 9s):
right Republicans and Democrats. Yes can buy its basic principle of our Constitution and our democracy. 1992 Bill Clinton defeated the incumbent President George HW Bush bush had to move out of the White House for the young person who'd send them packing bush left this letter for Clinton in the Oval Office. It's been circulating around the internet this week. The original is handwritten White House stationary. It reads dear bill. When I walked into this office just now I felt the same sense of wonder and respect that I felt for years ago. I know you will feel that too. I wish you great happiness here. I've never felt the loneliness some presidents have described there will be very tough times made even more difficult by criticism.

1 (2m 55s):
You may not think is fair. I'm not a very good one to give advice but just don't let the critics discourage you I'll push you off course, you will be our president when you read this note, you know ends word our I wish you well. I was your family. Well your success now is our country success. I'm getting hard for you. Good luck George. And into people who cried when they read that this week, that's how far that letter seems from the America we live in right now. I like it that we make the new president go and sleep in the bedroom of his vanquished rival like how intimate that is, you know, what's more intimate their own bedroom and you know do lines how we're all stuck with each other in this country divided as we are disagreeing so vehement Lee it underlines.

2 (3m 51s):
We can't get away from each

1 (3m 52s):
other. Today in our program same bed different dreams. We have stories of enemies sleeping together or working together or just stuck together in some way with very different hopes and goals. We have stories of deception and Star-Crossed haters WBEZ Chicago. This is American life. I'm Ira Glass stay with us. That one dream Weevil that titles going to make more sense as The Story Goes On just trust me on that in 1986 a man and woman ran into a US Embassy in Vienna said they needed Asylum.

1 (4m 38s):
They're from South Korea and they told Embassy officials this incredible story of kidnapping and Intrigue and being torn apart. It and thrown back together and years of dreaming about escape from their kidnapper while at the same time convincing the kidnapper that what they really want to do was stay with him. Nancy Updike has the story the woman who is kidnapped was a famous South Korean actress named Chae Eun hee. I read a book about it by a writer and film producer named Paul Fisher. He spent years researching this story.

2 (5m 8s):
You know, she was compared at the time to Elizabeth Taylor

1 (5m 13s):
Elizabeth Taylor.

2 (5m 15s):
Imagine if Elizabeth Taylor

1 (5m 17s):
Pastor Pride, but still famous from all her iconic roles had just disappeared one day

2 (5m 23s):
Jay. Was that beautiful

1 (5m 25s):
that Japan icon in South Korea and she was gone. She found out pretty quickly who had arranged this

2 (5m 31s):
wench a was kidnapped in 1978. She was put on a boat and the boat went to nampo Harbor and North Korea and she actually has a photo which is in the book of her very first meeting with Kim Jong-il. He was there waiting for her off the boat with a photographer and you had a stalker fit take a photo and then send it to her

1 (5m 54s):
as a so want to remember

2 (5m 55s):
this exactly remember that time

1 (5m 58s):
and he's been in time. I had you kidnapped him brought to me and it's a terrible picture and he's

2 (6m 2s):
beaming and smiley and she's got her face

1 (6m 4s):
covered for years her family and her country didn't know where she was. This happened in 1978. Jay was in her 50s and her first sickening guess as to why she'd been taken. Was it Kim Jong-il had brought her to North Korea to be a mistress for his father the great leader Kim il-sung who is ruling the country at the time but No, it seemed the Kim. Jong-il himself was just a very big fan of Chase movies. He put her up in a fancy Villa surrounded by walls and barbed wire and armed guards. She called it in her Memoir Las Vegas meets Vladivostok Kim Jong-il brought her out to display at parties that was chaste life for five years until one particular night and one special party

2 (6m 52s):
Chad been there for a while and she was standing. Somewhere in the center of the

1 (6m 56s):
room and she was used to these parties by this

2 (6m 59s):
point. Exactly. They were routine cheat started sort of feeling repulsed by the other people got drunk and grope women and then they went on forever and somebody had already told her that you know, this is going to be such a great evening for you and she nodded along because she was used to sort of hyperbole about everything.

1 (7m 18s):
She had no idea that Kim Jong-il that night was planning to show off for the first time another person he had acquired Heard the man who had directed or produced almost all of Chase movies her ex-husband shinsung awk shin. And Shay each didn't know that the other was also in the country Shin had been brought there the same way Che was but he tried to escape twice. So he was thrown in a prison camp for a couple of years

2 (7m 47s):
the best way to describe Shin, you know, Steven Spielberg's is sort of good comparison a sense about he made films that were Very good, very commercial very popular and also produce other people's films had his own studio. And you know, he was the most powerful popular filmmaker in South Korea arguably in all of Southeast Asia for most of the 60s and into the 70s and shin, you know, 10 days prior to this. He was still in prison camp guard released and for 10 days in a villa de fatten them up try to restore him to health, you know, he arrives at the party when it's already, you know in full flow and he walks inside. And as soon as he enters there's Applause.

1 (8m 29s):
What an insane thing is ago. You're in a prison camp you walk in and you're the life of the party. Everyone's applauding

2 (8m 36s):
exactly and in the picture is, you know, his face the looks at me. She hated you can tell he's just gone through something terrible to suit doesn't fit

1 (8m 42s):
Noche doesn't see Shin come in. She just hears people start applauding

2 (8m 47s):
and Che is sort of even unfazed by this. You know, anytime Kim does anything people get up and

1 (8m 52s):
applauded so she didn't know why people are applauding shakes

2 (8m 55s):
out. Until somebody, you know says, you know, why don't you look happy look who's here and she turns around and you know, it's been five years Shane's got the marks of having been tortured in a prison camp. She doesn't recognize him right away. And and from that point on Kim Jong-il was pulling them together and they sort of shell-shocked hugged one another and then, you know within moved around like like, you know blocking in a movie scene by Kim Jong-il

1 (9m 25s):
what like stand here sit here

2 (9m 27s):
and here you stand next to me smile to the cameras, you know, they was sort of the the guests of honor

1 (9m 40s):
famous people don't get to pick their fans. Kim. Jong-il was a super fan who was also unfortunately the son of the all-powerful leader of a totalitarian state. Scheana and Shay had made their best movies together Kim love their movies, and he wanted them to be a couple just like they were in their Heyday. So he arranged it Parent Trap style. He told them at the party that guess what he had a newly remodeled Villa for them that they would be living in from now on together

2 (10m 13s):
making a joke. I think you said something like, you know, the newlyweds are going to want to be alone now weird and had them taken to a car and you know by all accounts seemed extremely pleased and expected them to be equally so and and you know, it's the moment right after that when I went back to the Villa close the bathroom door turn the faucet on to an article. I'd

1 (10m 35s):
write privately they turn the faucet on so they can whisper and actually have a private conversation

2 (10m 39s):
exactly and they just asked one another what had happened. You know the way she describes it as sort of a lovely moment where she asks him what happened to you and he said a lot I'll tell you some other time and he asked her what happened to you and she says a lot I'll tell you some other time and you know Shin kind of gingerly again asked her, you know, you looked very Smiley and happy and I just, you know, have you been brainwashed and she made a joke about how the director can you recognize acting? Seymour and it's sort of you know, both of them were finally able to be genuine with someone and and you know, they spent the next several hours going through everything

1 (11m 21s):
shin and Che made a long-term plan and a short-term plan long-term they were going to escape but they would wait till they could do it right so they wouldn't be caught their short-term plan involved a small tape recorder. Which they were able to get because one of the weird privileges of their captivity was that they were allowed to shop at a department store that sold things that were Out Of Reach for most people in the country like tape recorders Kim Jong-il had long and short-term plans of his own for them. He told him that soon he would summon them to talk about his vision for their future.

1 (12m 6s):
Then seven months went by. And during those months shin and Chase spent hours nearly every week and Kim's huge film archive. He wanted shin and Shea to see it and be impressed and they were Kim didn't just love their movies. He loved all movies. It was against the law for ordinary North Koreans to watch foreign films, but Kim had set up a massive bootlegging operation running in countries all over the world. So he could build up his private collection with every movie ever made or as close as he could get. The archive was three stories high and heavily guarded at least two screening rooms all for Kim only and now for shin and Chae.

1 (12m 49s):
Jin was bowled over by every detail,

2 (12m 52s):
you know, the the way the building itself was set up to run and and you know with admiration over how Kim had set up his own archive and how well everything was kept, you know geeking out over the air conditioning settings and how he was preserving The Settle Lloyd and you know, how everything Has catalog than the staff and and how large it was.

1 (13m 11s):
How is it categorize? Was it by year or by genre or by director?

2 (13m 16s):
I went by country first and then I think it went by year as they got them in and then there's a lovely Touch where you know, the South Korean films and a kind of normal air conditioning room. And then the North Korean films in the most lavish storage and screening room in the whole building the

1 (13m 37s):
films were dubbed into Korean. After being painstakingly transcribed sometimes by Americans there was an American Defector. He was one of several actually who'd been there since 1965 and one of his jobs was transcribing American films, but just by listening because he wasn't allowed to watch them.

2 (13m 55s):
Yeah, and he wouldn't know that there were films because they gave him any other American effect is the audio for some reason they chopped up the film soundtracks into different bits in the wrong order so they wouldn't No, I guess I'm doing exactly or enjoy them. But he had this experience of you know, transcribing them and suddenly realizing wait. This is Mary Poppins. She didn't say spent dozens and dozens

1 (14m 22s):
of hours watching one movie after another in the screening rooms at the film archive and in their villa, which was also outfitted to show movies. They did that for months until finally they got word Kim is ready to meet with you. They went and they brought the tape recorder

2 (14m 39s):
and the second they walked in Che had the tape recorder in her purse and she flicked it on and I think unexpectedly Kim. Jong-il just talked at them mostly for two hours. You know Kim Jong-il spoke very very fast and is mine sort of went all over the place and he had a very intimidating waiter / bodyguard. We kept walking into refill drinks and empty ashtrays

1 (15m 6s):
Shannon Shea wanted to record Kim for two reasons first. They knew they might not be able to escape maybe they would be killed and their children and friends would just never know what had happened to them recording if they could smuggle it out would at least be proof of where they'd been. The second reason to record him was that they knew that Kim would insist they say publicly that they had come to North Korea on their own voluntarily shin and Jay were hoping that in their private conversation Kim might admit to having had them kidnapped and brought to him and he almost almost did by making a joke in the first couple of minutes of their conversation Kim talked about how he brought Che over first in order to entice Shin to North Korea.

1 (15m 51s):
I say joke because laughs as he says it and then all three of them

2 (15m 55s):
lack

1 (16m 1s):
It's Tyrant management 101 if he laughs you laugh the rest of what Kim said in that conversation. Well, he said a lot of things but the main thing was North Korean movies are bad and I'm sick of it.

2 (16m 21s):
They were making the same film over and over again and that they were too long and too boring and like history lessons and and too melodramatic and and he says there's too much crap. I I didn't tell anybody to put in so much crying.

1 (16m 36s):
Kim Jong-il told Shannon Che that he knew he was the only person in the country who could get away with saying what he was saying and he told them not to repeat any of it. He said when it comes to movies we are in kindergarten and other countries like South Korea are in college. He said if we don't catch up in the next 10 years our movies are going to be the worst of the worst movies in the world the problem. He said just between us is that people? In North Korea had it too easy. They had things handed to them. You have to hustle like shin and shaded

2 (17m 13s):
there's a point in the tape where he tells them that you know, and I think he says I'm paraphrasing but basis, you know, there's no incentive and socialism to do any bad screenwriters, you know, tell write something they'll get their rations the other guys make a film they'll get their rations. They get paid no matter what exactly

1 (17m 36s):
turn out the

2 (17m 38s):
work exactly and follow orders and he seemed very conscious that you know, I need someone who who pushes himself more than that who's used to having to do more than that to earn his

1 (17m 49s):
keep Kim Jong-il never mentioned another possible reason why North Korea's movies were wooden and unambitious like fear. He Kim Jong-il had written the book The Only book in North Korea about the right way to make movies and think about movies. It's called on the art of the cinema. It's still in print everyone involved in North Korea's film industry in the 1980s had to have been aware of the potential consequences of doing something as unpatriotic or insulting as trying to realize their own independent artistic vision. Without Kim's explicit blessing and his father's it was better to be crappy than sorry.

1 (18m 34s):
The conversation continued Shannon Shea murmured that North Korea's citizens were fortunate to have a comrade leader who understood films. So well Kim Jong-il agreed with his permission. The three of them got into critiquing specific films a North Korean Won called the star of Korea and while they were at it a Soviet film called mother. It had a dying scene. They all agreed had been

2 (18m 58s):
atrocious.

1 (19m 3s):
They were three movie lovers talking about what they loved and Kim jong-il's big plan for Shannon. Shea was that he wanted them to make North Korean movies good so that they could compete with films coming out of the West and win Awards and be shown in theaters all over the world. You want to chase a to act in the movies and shin to direct them Shin could have his own film company just like he used to have Shin wanted to call the company Shin film a very Bold request in the circumstances.

2 (19m 34s):
He had nothing in North Korea had been called anything other than you know, the worker's Paradise this at a party this or the supreme leader of this or Kim il-sung University. So it was a big deal but it's also very telling of shin that even in this surreal situation. His first instinct is okay. Okay. Okay, but can we give the company? My name

1 (19m 51s):
in film Noir? Someone is always watching.

2 (20m 2s):
Using

1 (20m 2s):
someone and often people are using each other and we don't find out till the end who gets away with what Shannon Shea knew that their only chance of Escape would be to convince Kim Jong-il to let them film and work in the west Kim Jong-il knew that if he wanted good movies. He had to give shin and Che in a freedom to create them. So all three of them wanted to make great movies,

2 (20m 26s):
but same bed different dreams Kim Jong-il wanted the film's for his own purposes, and I needed the films that get away from him And it's almost like his ambition of making films at the world respect completely overtook any sense of logic. So the first function and Che shot had sequences that they shot in Eastern Europe standing in for the Hague and they showed Kim Jong-il the film. He said this is fantastic. It's like a European film. It's the best thing we've ever made allowed him start showing it and it never crossed his mind. And that they had done exactly what he'd forbidden his own filmmakers to do forever for a

1 (21m 9s):
reason. They've been forbidden to show the world outside North Korea.

2 (21m 13s):
They showed people things that they hadn't been able to see, you know, almost in a lifetime for some people in North Korea by 1983 1984 and a second that film started playing in cinemas in North Korea, you know, the North Korean audiences didn't take in necessarily the higher production values all they could talk about was that first 10-15 Shot on the streets of Prague where you know, okay, wait, the buildings look amazing. People are walking into businesses. They're all dressed differently. There's cars what you know, that's where really had an impact because up until then they had been told you are the luckiest people in the world, you know to worker's Paradise is the only place in the world where people have peace and freedom and and suddenly they saw that that wasn't

1 (21m 57s):
true. How do you know that that's what people thought? I was lucky

2 (22m 0s):
enough to meet and speak to people who Escaped from North Korea who were you know, varying ages at the time that they were able to watch these films and there's another German researcher in Japan are called Johannes shown here who's done quite a lot of talking to the factors about the same thing and it's one of the things that's fascinating is that shin and Chase films had a huge impact straight away, you know, there have been people in their late 30s who'd never seen anything of the outside world there hadn't been

1 (22m 30s):
filtered.

2 (22m 37s):
But it wasn't just that people suddenly were able to see, you know, footage of the outside world, but you know shin and Che made a film called love love my love, which was literally the first love story in North Korean culture post-1945. There wasn't about love of the leader our love of the party was literally the first time people able to go to the cinema and see something it was about two people falling in love and it was the first time, you know teenagers had pictures. On their wall of a matinee Idol of anybody other than the

1 (23m 7s):
leaders. Shin directed Seven films for Kim Jong-il and then in March 1986. He and Che went to a hotel in Vienna for some film business managed to grab a separate taxi from their North Korean minders sped to the US Embassy and ran in they were debriefed by the CIA and later by South Korean intelligence and they were interviewed by The Washington Post and other media outlets and stories about North Korea are always hard to fact-check for parts of shin and Chase story their Recollections. Their interpretations are all there is but the movies exist the recording of Kim exists.

1 (23m 52s):
Kim Jong-il had told Shannon Shea in the recording that when people asked them why they were in North Korea. They should say freedom for True artistic freedom for shin. There were some bitter truth to that because South Korea at the time Shannon Shea were kidnapped had been a military dictatorship with very heavy-handed sensors. Shin Studio have been shut down by the South Korean government in 1975. His career was in Ruins. In North Korea Shin got to make films again. He wrote unabashedly in his autobiography how much he had loved making movies there

2 (24m 29s):
Shen always spoke of North Korea as the place where he kind of has that the place he Associated film Freedom with and creative freedom with because he can ask for anything and get it, you know, he asked in one episode he asked for like a model train to blow up for a scene and he was given a real train packed with explosives on Rails. To blow up if you wanted to and if he asked for a wind machine who sent helicopters and if you wanted fake snow, everybody was flown to a mountain, you know, there's no expense spared, you know, Kim Jong-il felt like the larger-than-life film producer that you hear about and he didn't have the downside that the film producer usually has because the film producer use has to say no every now and then we don't have enough money.

2 (25m 14s):
We don't have enough time.

1 (25m 22s):
Jen and Jay had remarried in North Korea that Kim Jong-il suggestion and it ended up being a real marriage. They were together till Shin died in 2006. They seem to have been each other's Big Love in life besides movies. Although Shin love movies more than Che did maybe a lot more

2 (25m 43s):
and their shared Memoir of their time and in North Korea. It goes from his voice to her voice back and forth and kind of the second they start making films her voice kind of disappears entirely and it's all his from then on and you know, it's about escaping but in equal measure it's about making the film's almost as if he's writing A Memoir of his time in Hollywood or

1 (26m 2s):
something. Chase 88 years old living in South Korea when Paul was researching his book. He interviewed her for it and he asked her about shin and the movies they made in North Korea

2 (26m 14s):
and and you know what I met her and spoke to her you could sense the impatience that you know, she had had been able to get out of there three years earlier not made any of the films should have been very happy to do

1 (26m 24s):
so and him not so much and him not so

2 (26m 27s):
much.

1 (26m 29s):
Even great love can't protect you from the other person wanting what they want.

2 (26m 43s):
Nancy attack is one of the producers of our show professor's book about all this is called a Kim Jong-il production. We first broadcast historian 2015 tell you and he has died since then. Coming up people sharing beds actual beds with very different dreams. That's a minute. There's kaga public radio

1 (27m 6s):
when our program continues. Support for This American Life comes from Capital One. Welcome to banking reimagined Capital One checking and savings accounts have no fees or minimums and a top-rated banking app that lets you manage your money anytime anywhere check on the account balance deposit checks pay bills and transfer money on the go. This is banking reimagined. What's in your wallet Capital One na member FDIC This American Life from Ira Glass today on our program same bed different dreams. We have stories of people who are bound closely together. They are stuck with each other but with very different hopes and goals.

1 (27m 46s):
We've arrived at that two of our program at to smell you later. They're all kinds of work situations where people very literally share an actual bed. So they can

2 (27m 57s):
do their jobs. These are

1 (27m 58s):
people who share a bed that they are not ever in at the same time. This happens in lots of places that has different names shift beds hot. Hot bedding flight attendants do this their apartments with bunk beds that they use when they happen to be in that City guys who work on oil rigs and oil fields do it too.

2 (28m 15s):
We had we have to swap out shoes. I returned that we're gonna pretend that we're gonna go to our ship swap out your shoes and put my sheets. This guy works in Carlsbad New

1 (28m 23s):
Mexico when he had a friend first moved there two years ago to do fracking to save money. They rented this small RV just like 15 feet long one bet on it. He worked nights his friend work days. They had a rule to always shower before getting into bed. The sheets

2 (28m 39s):
my friends always been real picky on that. He always had a like color blue. I always liked red red sheets something something bright. So here's on that. I'd leave he always have my written my red sheets on her time that I'd leave. I'd always put his blue sheets on and plus. We never got the same shoes because we never wanted to be mixed up and stuff. I'll be pretty pretty messed up spending him and he'd be spending me and

1 (28m 59s):
stuff. Migrant workers also have these shifts beds in some places and farms around the country in New York. The main

2 (29m 5s):
Agricultural Product is milk.

1 (29m 7s):
There are 4,000 dairy farms in the state and lots of them operate 24/7. So shift beds are common Stephanie Foo went to see the shift beds. One of those Farms. I didn't see any cows on the farm and more surprising. I didn't smell them instead. They were just sweet-smelling bales of hay in a field three mobile homes on it Mexican music was blasting out of the closest one. My interpreter Antonia and I knock on the door. And as soon as we step inside, the stench of manure is overpowering from a few mud-caked boots in the corner. It's a two bedroom trailer with holes in the floor and black mold growing in the cabinets and clutter everywhere roaches and jars of Nescafe and sugar and cans of beans Coronas.

1 (29m 50s):
It's 7 p.m. And were there during the shift change their four or five guys Milling around all Mexican all undocumented. Some are just getting home and others like this one guy.

2 (29m 60s):
They are just waking up for work.

1 (30m 2s):
Jose's shy but he smiles a lot. He shows antonian me where he sleeps. There's a bed in the

2 (30m 8s):
bathroom

1 (30m 11s):
Jose lifts up the beds mattress and a wooden plank underneath knocking over a jar of change. And

2 (30m 18s):
are you in the bathtub save remember if you

1 (30m 21s):
don't that if you wanted to take a bath you could just lift up his bed and get in his bed is a wooden plank placed over the tub. There are a couple of pillows. Shoved over the faucet so that the knobs don't turn and flood the tub while he's sleeping. It's happened before including the bathtub bed. There are total of seven beds in the two-bedroom mobile home sometimes up to 13 people live here and share the

2 (30m 45s):
seven beds sleeping in shifts.

1 (30m 47s):
Jose explained how it works. No, there are no alarm clocks no need for them when you get off work, you find someone who has an opposite shift from you and you wake them up so you can take their

2 (30m 58s):
beds from though yours to dig, okay. Do you want to go to La Manana at least as I says okay,

1 (31m 4s):
I get here at 4 a.m. And my friend is sleeping and I tap him on his blanket and it goes

2 (31m 8s):
like this. Yes, who is it? It was so you'll say me Jose does nothing

1 (31m 14s):
private 5 is 5 and they try to go back to sleep. Let me sleep.

2 (31m 17s):
Yeah, there's a little bit and I say it's five. It's five. It's five me say okay. Okay. It's 5:00 so Casey, okay.

1 (31m 25s):
Can I get ready for bed? He wakes up and says, okay. See you later. I'll wake you later. And does it feel strange and intimate or did it first when when you had to share a bed with somebody

2 (31m 39s):
and it does say when the service desk was dumb brother Jose says yes, of

1 (31m 43s):
course. Yeah, you're used to coming to work and suddenly someone else comes and sleeps in your bed. And your blankets. You should see it's weird you flip your pillow over each time.

2 (31m 53s):
That's what it does. Yeah, but the women whether it's emotional,

1 (31m 57s):
but you get used to it everyone smells. We become friends. You know that if he showers it's fine, but if not, I understand Sylvania Korean because sometimes you don't get back until seven or six and there's no time to shower. I'm understanding of that and he should be too it's fine. I mean you get used to it really

2 (32m 19s):
it's almost I got some brother total giving

1 (32m 23s):
that's what everyone kept telling me you get used to it to the hours to the work to everyone else rummaging around in your space you get used to it. Jose Antonio worked seven days a week 16 hours 3 days a week eight hours the other for no overtime. I talked to a guy who's worked closely with many farms across the state and he described the pay and living conditions at the farm. We were at as quote slightly below average Jose says, it's not that bad. He says other Farms he's lived at have been worse at one the roof leaked onto the beds and it was so crowded that he try to sleep standing up at another he couldn't sleep because he was afraid that a drunk violent roommate would beat him up in the middle of the night here.

1 (33m 14s):
They get along if someone wants to bring his girlfriend over the rest of them all crammed into the other bedroom even sleep together in one bed. So that guy can have a room to himself. But mostly they're not too concerned about privacy as I squeezed past piles of other people's toiletries and clothes and sheets and condom wrappers all over the floor. I was reminded of what a

2 (33m 36s):
luxury it is to ever feel like you have a space. That's all yours

1 (33m 41s):
here at any given moment. Somebody might be in the Next Room bumping the

2 (33m 44s):
Black Eyed Peas off YouTube. I'm singing at the top of their lungs. Here we come here we go. We go to Iraq. This is a guy named Anton. Singing he got really excited at this part because you need the days of the week in English. My number one day Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday Friday more most of the days. All this is

1 (34m 13s):
bearable because it's temporary. They do this a few years then move home. And Antonio tells me he makes more than one day here and he would in a whole week in Mexico and sends it all back one man says he actually owns his own Farm in Mexico with his own workers and that he's working here to be able to expand it many guys have built businesses one is putting two kids through college Jose says he bought a big house for his girlfriend in Mexico another man puts it best. He says every head is its own world. I come for my dreams and he comes for his. One of the things Antonio the guy who was singing dreams about is his bed his future bed.

1 (34m 55s):
He can picture exactly what his bedroom and Mexico will look like when he's finished building

2 (34m 58s):
it piece off here making to be so color girl who kisses with the

1 (35m 3s):
sturdy red floor. That's a color. I like the bedrooms each have a bathroom,

2 (35m 8s):
but it's quite as convenient with internet internet a car

1 (35m 14s):
Netflix. What size bed do you want? Is it firmer? Is it

2 (35m 18s):
soft King? I smell the agua king-size waterbed

1 (35m 25s):
the best know

2 (35m 26s):
this is one of those unfortunate cases. Okay, that's why we're here

1 (35m 32s):
Antonio cracks another Corona. It's getting late for him just to get up and six hours for his

2 (35m 37s):
shift

1 (35m 38s):
and shake his hands. But before I

2 (35m 40s):
go I noticed that I

1 (35m 41s):
don't smell the manure anymore. I haven't smelled in a while actually the air seems cold and fresh there. Right. You really can't get used to the smell

2 (35m 58s):
Stephanie Foo. She's currently working on a memoir about healing from complex PTSD. Her story was first broadcast in 2015 when it aired somebody who knew the managers of the farm apparently heard Stephanie story on the radio and then talk to the managers. Like hey, that sounds like your place and then the manager apparently talk to the workers and at some point the Mexican consulate. In a car to help straighten this out and soon enough chop-chop new trailer. Nobody shares bed nobody Sleeps in the bathtub anymore. Back 300 becomes the hunter.

1 (36m 36s):
This next story is about two women who aren't sleeping in the same bed. They're kind of inhabiting the same body in a way with very different dreams Mickey me tell us what happened Justin and level didn't know she had a secret doppelganger until she got a phone call. Justin is a photographer and teaches photography at the University of New Mexico and Albuquerque and one morning. She was heading out the door for work and I get this call and And he identified himself as Inspector Kudo from the San Francisco Police Department financial crimes unit. And he immediately asked me. Do you know woman named Aaron Colleen heart? And I said no and he and why and he said well, did you ever give her your identification your New Mexico state driver's

2 (37m 22s):
license or any other identification? I said no. No, I don't know her and what is this about and

1 (37m 28s):
and I immediately thought of my wallet being

2 (37m 30s):
stolen. In a year and a half prior at this Gallery in San Francisco.

1 (37m 34s):
She never got it back and assumed it was gone for good. But now this Police Inspector was telling her that a woman named Aaron heart had just been busted using just a man's driver's license trying to check into a San Francisco hotel and he said look, I'll send you a police

2 (37m 48s):
report, you know, she's in police custody right now and she was in police custody because she's been trying to use your ID.

1 (37m 56s):
Yeah. Exactly.

2 (37m 58s):
I don't know. I just kind of thought that socks that that

1 (38m 1s):
And then that's the ad and you know, whatever but then about a week after that it became clear that Justin's license had been used at more places than just the hotel a collections agency demanded payment from Jessamine for five hundred dollars worth of goods from a whole food store unpaid parking tickets and toll evasions also started showing up in her mailbox, and then the rental car company hurts began hounding her for thousands of dollars in charges die figured out and sort of add it up. It was all like three different cars that she had rented. So one she just turned another one. She had clearly damaged and another one. She had had like the boot had been put on it and like there were tickets and whatever is like I knew I had not rented these cars and yet they would not believe me.

1 (38m 46s):
They would not believe me. She was spending all her time on the phone and email trying to tell them and other places that she'd been a victim of identity theft and then jesseman got a summons to appear in court from Alameda County Court in Auckland the charge against her was Theft so it's like really freaked out like this must be connected to her this woman Aaron heart. So she bought a plane ticket on a credit card and flew to Oakland once Justin got there. She sat around in a court room all morning waiting to be called up. I was getting more and more ramped up felt like a lot of people were getting taken away until she was finally the last person in the room and then the judge asked me.

1 (39m 28s):
Are you the one that sent this big pile of papers into me and I was like, yes, those are all the documents. She's like, okay. I've I'm going to look through them really really quickly here because what was in there? And all of the hurt stuff and then the police report just to show like the believe me. This isn't the only thing because all this other stuff going on the judge dismissed the case, but told Jessamine she should get the charges expunged. So it wouldn't appear in background checks, which was going to be a whole other hassle. She walked out of the courtroom and she was still completely worked up. How much was this going to cost her? Who was this woman? And what else had she done posing as Jessamine? I thought immediately like I want to I'm Gonna Get You bottom of this.

1 (40m 9s):
I'm going to figure this out. I want to know what it was. She did. I don't know how she got my ID. I wanted to find her. I want to find her.

2 (40m 22s):
This is where Justin and story changes from a

1 (40m 24s):
garden-variety identity theft case to something stranger. She had a photocopy of Aaron Hearts driver's license in the file. She took the court so she pulled it out and looked at the home address listed on it. I had enough like drive just like adrenaline that I was like I'm going there just like I'm doing this thing. And what was the thing that you were thinking? You're gonna do I mean I seriously I wish I could tell you I had a plan and I had something I was going to say and I just didn't and I remember thinking like well, I want to park close enough that I can run and get into my car if I have to like not even kidding. I really did think that it was this

2 (41m 5s):
huge huge huge

1 (41m 7s):
you to Depart of building and I got in I had someone went in and I just snuck in after them. Like I'm going in I think I know her apartment number. I'm going to go in and so I'm walking through the halls and I found the apartment. I just went up to it and knocked on it and no one answered the door and then I'm relieved like, okay. Well, I have to leave and then I photograph the door maybe one of the most boring pictures ever taken my life. Wait why like why take a picture? I almost wanted just to have the evidence for myself that like you went there. You did this almost like I mean, I don't overstate it but like a tourist documents like I kind of felt like I needed to have this pin.

1 (41m 47s):
They're like, I know it sounds crazy and hindsight. It kind of does sound a little weird in hindsight.

2 (41m 59s):
Justin also went to the hurts counter in San

1 (42m 1s):
Francisco were three cars were rented in her name and the Whole Foods in Berkeley where she had a 500 dollar debt and hotel Vitaly. That's where Aaron heart got arrested trying to check in with her license walking in Justin and saw that it was the type of Hotel. She'd never be able to stay at and was not prepared. For how like fancy this place was going to be right away coming in the door. They had like wine or they had tea and the hotel staff immediately asked me if they could help me. And as soon as I said like this woman had tried to check in here with my ID the guy knew and actually he said that usually when this happens and I was like, oh this happens a lot.

1 (42m 41s):
He's like, yes, and when that happens, we asked them to leave and they leave and he said this woman didn't The manager knew Aaron was a fraud because she got just the man's name wrong when she checked in. She had a beautifully groom Persian cat with her and was standing in the lobby insisting that the license was hers. That's when the manager decide to call the police. So they arrested her they took her away in the camp was just left there with her stuff and they were like, well, I guess we'll have to call animal he made and then she came a couple days later. She was released and ask for a cat at the hotel. And they said Well, we I'm sorry we centered and she was really upset that they that the cat wasn't there that definitely was the first moment where I had any kind of sympathy for her and they gave her the number for animal humane and then she left and when I went to Animal Humane, but you went to Animal Humane to go trap.

1 (43m 37s):
Yeah subtract on the cat. Well track that if she had been there okay, if it that and nobody knew anything about her the cat I mean and so I just Okay, he just like left and then I photograph the outside. So Jessamine goes home to New Mexico, but she just can't let this go. She's still dealing with the Fallout fighting with hurts and a few other places over bills and she decides to do a bunch of things that most of us would not do first Jessamine sends a letter to Aaron's address seen. Basically, I know what you did and here's what it's done to me. She includes an invoice for $1,200 the total cost of for round-trip flight to California combined with an hourly rate for Her time and then once later jesseman finds herself back in San Francisco for work and she picks up Aaron's Trail again.

1 (44m 25s):
She has a list of all the dresses are indeed lived at maybe 20 of them. She got from a private investigator and she starts going from place to place visiting errands all departments and one point Jasmine pulls up to this gorgeous building overlooking the Bay Bridge at the time. Jasmine was seven months pregnant and she thinks well, maybe I can use this to my advantage. I went to the front desk. The security officer and I was like Hey, as you can see I'm pregnant. I really have to go to the bathroom. I'm looking for my cousin Erin heart, but I need to use the restroom first. Do you mind and she was like Aaron hard? Yeah. I know her she used to live here. The woman actually knew her boyfriend at the time. She's like, I know I don't know for sure and it's just you know gossip but I had heard that she had had several thousand dollars of his possessions or whatever that she took off with a Ever came back and I was like, oh, wow.

1 (45m 19s):
Okay. Jeez. No and she's like, well, you know, you know Aaron or whatever and I was like, oh, yeah, totally Erin's will boyfriend didn't live there anymore. So Justin and took a few pictures inside the building and then moved on to the other addresses. All of them were

2 (45m 35s):
dead ends.

1 (45m 41s):
I mean, is there any part of you that is kind of feeling like a creep I knew it was crate. Like I knew that that was not like healthy. I did know that but I could not let it go as just something that someone did to me that I had no control over Justin hates feeling like she's lost control and whenever it happens ever since she was a teenager. She's dealt with it the same sort of way when she was around 11, her dad abandoned the family her mom and her three younger siblings, then they lost their house and for a Out they all live in a van with her cat and dog her dad. He did some pretty extreme things.

1 (46m 22s):
My Dad tried to have me kidnapped like he tried to kidnap you or sent someone to he

2 (46m 26s):
tried to have someone coming and kidnap me at my school and then again

1 (46m 31s):
later in a park

2 (46m 32s):
and my family we ended

1 (46m 35s):
up going for some time up to Canada so that he couldn't find us later. Justin's mom got really sick and suddenly she found herself taking care of her and entire family at some point as a way to deal with all the chaos. She started taking pictures things like an ambulance driving her mom away screaming matches between her sisters trash strewn all over their trailer home. She methodically document when she was going through and it gave her a sense of control. She continued to use her camera that way as an adult. At one point eight years ago. She had a brief scare that reminded her of her dad a random incident or she wondered if he was following her again from that night on I had it in my head.

1 (47m 17s):
I wanted to find him but I didn't want to find him and talk to him. What's the thing that you want to just I wanted to see him. I wanted to First just find him. I just want to know if I could find him. So I did I did a bunch of searching and background checks and Google stuff and he was about three and a half hours north of where I lived. Jesseman. Living in Oakland at the time and her dad was just north of her living in a condo and the Mendocino Coast. She started making covert trips up there when she never knew how to explain this to her friends. So she kept it simple and told them. Oh, I'm going to spend the weekend with my dad which technically was true. It's just that she did it wearing a blond wig and from a distance.

1 (47m 57s):
Why does hella photo answers really far away. I was like out in the woods like I could get a mile or so Away by needed to so, what did you see? He was on the deck. He was out for a walk. He would go to the gym taking out the trash

2 (48m 12s):
and he never saw,

1 (48m 13s):
you know know when you're stalking your dad or you're following your dad kept observing him from

2 (48m 20s):
serving him. And so what did that feel like,

1 (48m 22s):
um, Felt really good to see him and him not know I was there because why? Because I had some like knowledge about who he was and what he was doing. It was like a one-way mirror, you know, like I could see in and he couldn't see me, you know, and it felt like I had some kind of power. I don't know much about the identity theft business, but I'm guessing that the ideal Target does not own a camera that can photograph you from a mile away.

1 (49m 4s):
Two years after adjustment got that phone call from the police. She was still trying to track Aaron down and in February 2013 her private investigator, let her know that he found Aaron she was back in jail and about to be released jesseman went with him to a jail in downtown San Francisco. She brought a telephoto lens and a video camera and the two of them sat around in his SUV for hours waiting

2 (49m 27s):
for P. I had a contact we told them are in might come out the back hopefully. One by one people were coming out and the entire time. I'm just like photographing had this lens pointed at the door and terrified that she's not going to come out. She's not gonna come out. We're not going to find her and we see her here. She comes that hurt. Yep. Okay. We got her Earnhardt walk right past her car. She had a couple bags hanging off her shoulder, and she was dressed Us in thought like she was going to a nightclub. Tight

1 (50m 4s):
black shirt shiny pants and wedge

2 (50m 6s):
boots immediately. I thought oh my gosh, we we do kind of look similar. She was a similar build to me which is sort of, you know, tallish 5758 but like,

1 (50m 19s):
you know Fuller figured

2 (50m 21s):
wider hips and I could see that she had a roundish face like I do and

1 (50m 25s):
she has this bright orange hair and I just thought of my days and my teenage years dying my hair that exact orange like this is super bright

2 (50m 33s):
orange. And I just felt this uncanny like connection to her. Like I

1 (50m 37s):
really did and then from

2 (50m 39s):
there on for the next several hours was just you know, adrenaline, but you don't do it. Let me go then two other pies working with them in a separate

1 (50m 49s):
car. They all Trail Darren who's first stop was a convenience

2 (50m 53s):
store where she went in to buy cigarettes and a lighter. She hung outside for a few minutes smoking then got a public boss. Aaron got off right in front of a Goodwill store and walked in right away. Pete says jump out and go in there go after her and I was like, oh should I talk to her? You know, like I think sticky. Oh, okay. He's like

1 (51m 14s):
no no don't talk to her. Just just go in get your photographs. Get a good look at her

2 (51m 19s):
just go go go go go. And so I'm jumping out like freaking out like, oh my God, he's just leaving me here with her. Like what do I and then I

1 (51m 26s):
see Nate and Darrell in there. The other p is yeah. I'm like, okay. So I'm looking at them for kind of cues and they're not remotely giving me any kind of like cues and then I just go for it and I go up to her and I don't say anything to her. I just stand across right across the rack of clothes and the Goodwill from her as she's going through pulling clothes out looking changing her mind very expressive like no, I would never wear that like I could kind of hear in my mind like what she might be thinking from like her expression and I'm at an angle where I feel Feel like she's can't really tell what I'm doing, like maybe I'm just checking my email or something and I'm just like looking at my phone and I take some photos of her.

1 (52m 8s):
How nervous are you mean? You were literally now your face to face I'm shaking. I'm very nervous. Definitely and I think there's a part of me that is still thinking I could just talk to her right now Aaron. Hey errant, like I could just say that like I could hear

2 (52m 21s):
myself saying

1 (52m 23s):
Aaron heart. I know you probably don't recognize me. I know you don't know me, but I'm Laurel Jessamine level and You use my ID to do a number of things, but I just the power for me was in seeing her without her knowing that I was seeing her and then she disappears into the into the

2 (52m 45s):
dressing room. And

1 (52m 46s):
that's when the other pie comes over to me and says she's stealing clothes. Hmm. I was like what I just needed to get out of there. It was overwhelmed. I was feeling really As feeling really sad for her and I didn't want to feel sad for her. I wanted to feel angry at her. It was hard to maintain the anger because she was looking at Aaron and remembering things she'd done when she was young and her family was broke. I had shoplifted like nice cheese or like I literally stole a real Galah like things that I thought and associated with class middle to upper-middle class. And I think that's what really was like giving me the sympathy for Aaron heart was like Identify in a way with the desire to be someone else like I could see how a path in my life could have led to my being in that moment.

1 (53m 37s):
I really could but it was I guess a little disappointing I could guess it was a little like, oh I kind of wanted it to be like she was a criminal and did something bad to me. Yeah, and it just wasn't that none of that satisfaction of I got her. It was just sort of this weird. Transition and anger was starting to be sort of like replaced with empathy what Jessamine did next doesn't sound empathetic at all when you first hear about it, but for Jessamine, it was The Logical end or search.

1 (54m 19s):
She went through the hundreds of images she taken and she put together a gallery exhibit. It had surveillance shots of Aaron the court summons, please. Ports bells and pictures of places were her idea had been used she done this once before with the surveillance photo. She took of her dad. In fact, her wallet was stolen while she was setting up that exhibit which is what Center down the rabbit hole of trying to find Aaron in the first place. She called the new show dear Erin heart and one of the items on display was a sealed letter and a Plexiglas box. She asked the people at the gallery to give it to Aaron if she ever showed up there. It wasn't a dramatic letter just a way of telling Erin that she'd been looking. You're one to talk.

1 (54m 59s):
Justin and didn't see putting Aaron's name and photos out in public as Revenge but not everyone saw it that way you are a

2 (55m 6s):
victim of identity theft. Would you consider tracking

1 (55m 9s):
down the thief and turning the table? This is from The Today

2 (55m 11s):
Show in an act some have described as Revenge Louisville followed and photograph the woman who stole her wallet and then her identity.

1 (55m 19s):
I reached out to Aaron heart through her probation officer to talk about all this I sent a couple of emails listing everything Jessamine says about her the are never got back to me so I couldn't verify Whether she was responsible for bills jesseman got from hurts and Whole Foods or any of the unpaid parking tickets and tolls or whether she shoplifted from Goodwill or stole from her boyfriend.

2 (55m 46s):
So Aaron secretly

1 (55m 47s):
pose, this Jessamine and Jessamine secretly photographed Aaron Jessamine admits. It's an uncomfortable thing that they have in common. Each of them is willing to invade someone else's privacy. To get what they want

2 (56m 4s):
Nikki make was one of the producers of our show. Like I said earlier today shows first broadcast couple years ago since then just a minute become a licensed private investigator. She's taking courses in self-defense weapons training research. She says your skills are in high demand. But I will enter this program on an airplane. It's a point in putting together this week show it occurred to us that an overnight flight really is just like this huge

1 (56m 32s):
bed with hundreds of people all together Dreamin different dreams, and we asked people in two different flights like this to tell us their dreams and their day dreams and their hopes and

2 (56m 42s):
dreams one of our staff was actually on a red-eye flight herself and got

1 (56m 45s):
on the Plains PA system to explain the premise.

2 (56m 49s):
And gentlemen, my name is Stephanie about being on the PA system. She started talking like a flight attendant and doing stories about. David Weinberg and Jessica Ahmed recorded people as well. Here's some of them. I was dreaming about old-fashioned TV antennas. And then at one point I felt like I was shaking and I'm sure it was because the plane was shaking and everything, but I was trying to adjust the antenna I was dreaming about I was in a hot air balloon and I was yelling for my dog. Hey Katie, I'm up here sitting there like semi Lucid. I was thinking of the horned Puffin swimming underwater and how the little bubbles come out of there.

2 (57m 30s):
Feathers when they're swimming and then I thought of them as like going along in this in space and creating stars and then diving into the center of the Galaxy.

1 (57m 41s):
That's really

2 (57m 42s):
trippy. Yeah. Where are you

1 (57m 44s):
medicated at all?

2 (57m 53s):
I had a total nightmare. I

1 (57m 56s):
was backing down a hill out of a garage with a friend in a VW bus and we lost control of it and went down the hill and my friend turned to me and said, you

2 (58m 9s):
know, I will never forgive you for this. You know, everybody says why would you want to go to New York, you know, you know, there's you know, it's so big and why you know, and I'm like because you see all these things on television, you know, I have always wanted to experience a cab ride in New York City. We're going to do it all do it all. My daughter's about to have a baby. So I don't know dreams exactly the right word. But a lot of hopes sir first, baby my first grandbaby. Just to put it simply. I definitely didn't live it up to my responsibilities as a father and I had not been a regular part of her life up until she was nine and I blew it.

2 (59m 0s):
So I'm definitely not going to make the same mistakes that I made with her. You know, it's like I feel like I've been given a second chance. Three men away other mistress today by Zoe chasing me with Shawn call Stephanie few kinda choppy Walt Mickey make giant the menjivar Brian Reed Joe Richmond, Robin Sammy, and I was the ship and Nancy Updike senior producer for today's program is Julie Snyder editing help from Joe level research helping Michelle Harris and Christopher osakawa music help from Damien grave and grab get us special.

2 (59m 44s):
Thanks today to Clinton Cargill Sam go. Span Sara Seager Ian. Shapira, Alaska Airlines Gonzalo Martinez de veau Dia and the worker Justice Center of New York Antonio Sarah hero of Latino USA Jeff singer Chris Crawford and CC Chan. I website This American Life dot-org This American Life is delivered to public radio stations by PRX the public radio exchange support for This American Life comes from Sitka salmon chairs community supported fishery delivering seasonal shares of traceable sushi-grade Wild. Alaskan seafood or another small boat fleet find recipes and order at Sitka salmon shares.com tal.

2 (1h 0m 26s):
Thanks as always for Beckham's co-founder mystery Melody who of course stop by the office during the same outfit today that he wears every single day tight black shirt shiny pants and wedge boots. I'm Ira Glass back next week with more stories of This American Life. drop the knee

1 (1h 1m 21s):
next week on the podcast of This American Life a doctor sleeps with 11 of his patients goes before a medical disciplinary board. He is still practicing medicine today a doctor gives his prescription pad to somebody who then prescribes Controlled Substances for cash. The doctor goes before a disciplinary board. They do not take his license. He is still practicing medicine today why this happens next weekend podcast on your local public radio station?