1 (1s):
Support for This American Life comes from Capital One Capital one's banking app lets you manage your money anytime anywhere Capital One. This is banking reimagined. What's in your wallet Capital One and a A quick warning. There are curse words that are unbeaten today's episode of the show. If you prefer a beeped version, you can find that at our website This American Life dot-org. Okay. So before the president got coronavirus, which is sending everything now into some new and unforeseen reality. There were certain things about the election that is settled into predictable rhythms. Right? The president will talk about rioters in the streets and Law & Order, Joe.

1 (41s):
Biden will talk about Donald Trump's character and the way it's done its job when it came to the actual process of voting in the mail in ballots are going to be used by record numbers of people this year. The talking points lined up like this. The president said that mail-in ballots were going to be a disaster. Joe Biden said they were a perfectly good way to vote. The expert said the evidence backed up Biden then the president would again insist that they are disaster Biden would again say no the experts would again back to mop the president again would call them a disaster around and around and around in a circle that never ended a very tedious Circle, but you know, we can remove ourselves from that Circle right Frodo perspective.

3 (1m 23s):
Good evening, Tom and

1 (1m 24s):
comments for a few weeks. Now. One of our producers Ben Calhoun has been calling around to the people who actually handle these pallets that everybody has been yelling about these people touch them with their hands. They stack them in Stacks then. Yeah, so the person you're hearing this is Wendy Smith. She's the person who's responsible for running the election and dealing with mail-in ballots and all that in a small town in my home state, which is a Wisconsin season Nokomis, which is way up North and I called Wendy because I was wondering how this bizarre year was going for clerks like her. I had seen Wendy in a newspaper story. She had tattoos on both arms and this t-shirt that said why should only one hour be happy and said that you rode motorcycles and I just kind of thought I wanted to talk to her when I originally reached out to her.

1 (2m 9s):
She was busy sending out absentee ballots to people who'd requested them,

3 (2m 13s):
you know mind if I like work and talk at the same time. Do you?

1 (2m 18s):
No. No, I actually imagine that you have a lot to do.

3 (2m 21s):
Right now, yeah, I came in to 29 absentee ballots in and I've got a stack more that have to

1 (2m 26s):
go. Oh wait. So how many total are you looking at compared to like a normal year?

3 (2m 32s):
Oh my gosh, my last presidential I had a hundred absentee

1 (2m 37s):
voters failures at all total.

3 (2m 40s):
I've already almost tripled for this election what I did for years

1 (2m 45s):
ago triple. So that's like 300 voters out of maybe a thousand that she's responsible for Wow, and she's getting more requests every week. I've talked to when you a couple times now actually and both Times she has worked the entire time that we've been talking. You can hear her keyboard and her print they're going in the background like the whole time

3 (3m 4s):
as I've been talking to him printing off all my absentee ballot request. Because I have to have them open and done. And in the mail today

1 (3m 13s):
Wendy told me in all her years as clerk. This is definitely the most work. She's ever had to do for elections. And one of the reasons for that is that the legislature and the governor keep fighting over how everything should run. There are also lawsuits in Wisconsin. Like there are all over the country about what the rules for the election should be and all the little changes that come out of that stuff can be a ton of extra work for Wendy like in Wisconsin at one point. They change the rule about how many days somebody has to be a resident in order to vote. So Wendy started scrambling to fix all that. She's like redoing all these envelopes and then they just changed the rule back meaning that all of that scrambling and work was for nothing.

3 (3m 54s):
So then you went back to trust in your envelopes. So all the envelopes that I Kris you're laughing but try being a one-man show the windows.

1 (4m 5s):
No, I'm just so sorry. Like I imagine you like I just had an image of you buying Pepto-Bismol at Costco by the case or something. Yeah and compared to a normal year. Like how many more times work do you feel like you're doing this here on God's

3 (4m 27s):
it's a full-time job.

1 (4m 28s):
Is this your only job?

3 (4m 30s):
No, this is my part-time

1 (4m 32s):
job. What what is your what do you do when you're not doing this?

3 (4m 38s):
I work for an insurance company. I'm still working plus putting over time in there plus working

1 (4m 45s):
here. Oh my gosh. What did fine? When do you when do you sleep? Okay, so she's got rule changes. She's got tons of extra ballot. She's got to keep track of and the other big thing that's taking up a bunch more time is helping voters because people will just like filthy. Zout wrong or they don't know where their ballot is. Like I talked to her the other day and she was telling me about this couple.

3 (5m 15s):
I gotta try to locate their number. There's snowbirds their ballot went down to Florida. They're not there yet the ballot came back and now I got to try to find a way to reach them.

1 (5m 29s):
Oh, wow,

3 (5m 30s):
right, so I get to dig through about 300 app applications to try to find their if they have a phone

1 (5m 36s):
number so when he was trying to In them which it seems like something she kind of does a lot like she digs up numbers for people to find the people on Facebook. So

3 (5m 46s):
now when I go where they live I can probably drive over there when I'm done with work and say hey, what do you want to

1 (5m 53s):
do? The clerk's that I've been talking to they all kind of talk like this. Like they have this down-to-earth sort of Civic mindedness. Yeah, like there's this other clerk Marilyn pedretti. She's in this town called Holland, which is slightly bigger than Nokomis. It's like 40 300 people and Marilyn pedretti spent five years in DC where she worked for a congressman and then she worked in the Senate but she got sick of Washington. And so she spent the last 20 years as the town clerk for Holland.

3 (6m 21s):
I want votes to count. I will not. In French, I somebody and be lazy. I will do everything I can I try to find their phone number first. If I can't find that I try to email if I don't have that I'll send them a letter. So yeah, we're doing everything we can to make sure those votes

1 (6m 37s):
come the one thing. I find

3 (6m 44s):
very frustrating is the conspiracy theories that are out there and people believe I'm like, hello. I'm your town. Clerk I am not going to throw your ballot away. And you can track it. There's no way I can throw your ballot away, you know, so when you hear these stories about somebody picked some ballots out of a garbage and they open them up. It's like number one who ever open them up should be put in jail because you cannot open up the ballot, you know, if it's sealed you have to leave it sealed until election day. So and we have 1800 meters Palace in the state of Wisconsin. It's not centralized you would take 1800 clerks to do the wrong thing. Are there Cooks out there that make XU bat but when people come in with these conspiracies at the whole system's rigged like no, no, it's

1 (7m 30s):
not. All the clerk's that I talk to and this is in like Republican areas and Democratic areas. They all seemed like this was sort of driving a little nuts people getting the idea that what they do is very loosey-goosey and that people are just going to cheat the system to them. That's just outlandish because they say that there's too much security built into everything Scotty like what well they keep track of every request for a ballot unless you can't leave the house. Have to submit your ID to get an absentee ballot clerk put tracking info on the ballot and then they keep track of them when they're sent out and then coming back and then like when it comes back in it has to have a voter signature and witness signature for verification at the end of the whole election.

1 (8m 23s):
They also have to have like report back to the state what ballots ended up where like which ones went out and came back and which ones you know went out and never came back say somebody moves and they ask for a ballot in a new location. Station that's also something the state tracks and I just want to say like Wisconsin is pretty typical for like how all this stuff works. I feel like all these details exist in this universe that doesn't overlap in any way with the discussion that I see in the National media and the argument that I heard during the presidential debate. It just seems kind of sad that that Universe the national politics universe is lobbing grenades into these women's Universe. Yeah. I know. I mean, I've been at this for a couple weeks and I haven't found one Clerk.

1 (9m 5s):
Is worried about fraud all of them are worried about like the rule changes and the number of extra mail in ballots. I mean, they think they can deal with that. It's just a lot more work, but they're running into these conspiracy theories a lot. Well goalie. Yeah. No. Yeah. Yeah. No, that's what I'm hearing Maryland cheats like Wendy. She's a clerk part-time and she also Gardens to acres and she sells vegetables on the side of the highway

3 (9m 32s):
coming. I have a roadside stand and I'm out there and people know who I am and not Talk to me about election stuff, which is fun. But this woman who's out there buying my vegetables and knows that I'm the town clerk is telling me that all these dead people are voting. It's like no it's pretty much impossible in the state of Wisconsin for a dead person to vote if they had died the day before election. Maybe I'll not catch that and maybe that ballot will go through but that's one vote. It's not like the whole cemetery is voting, you know, so and I just looked at her said, huh, you know when the clerk right? Yeah. Yeah, do you I would like dead people vote. Well, no, not you but somewhere else I said can't happen in the state of Wisconsin. Well it when it happens in other states.

3 (10m 15s):
No, it doesn't it stop stop listening to that stuff, you know, and I do it cheerfully I don't you know, yell or anything. I just like this is this is wrong and you got to stop listening to that stuff, you

1 (10m 26s):
know Ben Cahoon. Thanks very much. Oh sure. You can stay in touch with these curses everything heats up in the next couple weeks. I mean as long as the answer my calls. There are so many jobs like this around the country. Some of them are part-time like with these new women's and a full-time some are paid jobs lots of volunteer or people get some tiny stipend. These are people who are throwing themselves into the details of some tasks that just needs to get done for our country to function and doing it in the normal decent civic-minded way that you would imagine and that you would hope for and it's going to say it but we are a country blessed with armies of people who are trying to contribute to their communities and all kinds of ways and today's program is about a group of people like that people who are as best as we can tell trying to do a good job for all of us the trying to protect the public.

1 (11m 21s):
But in this case too often, they're failing from WBZ Chicago This American Life America has stay with us. At one clinical trial. So the people that must have today's program is about our doctors doctors who've agreed to sit on panels to judge other doctors to discipline them or revoke their licenses when they behave badly every state has these medical boards the great medical licenses and they're the ones responsible for taking them away.

1 (12m 1s):
We heard about all this from a law professor at Vanderbilt Rebecca allensworth in 2018. She started going to Medical Board hearings in Tennessee, which he lives. Was research for a book that she plans to write about licensing boards and what she saw when she got there horrified her then each of us is going to take it from here when it comes to the Tennessee Board of medical examiner's Rebecca is like the one die-hard fan in the stands and a town softball game. She knows all the board members by name. She's interviewed. Most of them attended all their meetings in person or watch the live stream. She even went to their off-site Retreat last year. Before you went to any medical board meetings, how did you imagine they would be I thought they'd be pretty boring.

1 (12m 44s):
But yeah, I think I also thought it was going to be like in some sort of grand state government building. I think I had like the our state capital in mind or something, but it's just like an office Park so he has could describe what it actually looks like it's like a, you know, three or four story Square office building, you know, probably built in the 70s or 80s, this is Nashville. So there's copious parking and sounds like thunder Mifflin to me. Oh my god, look just like Dunder Mifflin. It looked just like Dunder Mifflin it the first meeting. She went to an OBGYN appeared before the board to request a new medical license.

1 (13m 26s):
The board had taken his old license away six months before when they learned that he had sex with 11 of his patients. He done drugs with at least one of them to he'd also prescribe them and other people We're not his patient Controlled Substances like codeine and Xanax. So this doctor was there to ask the medical board for a new license all that stuff. The sax the drugs had happened years before he'd been to rehab was sober now saw the error in his old ways and the board gave him a new license with some conditions attached but he could practice medicine again Rebecca couldn't believe it. There just has to be some sins that are unforgivable in the eyes of the board.

1 (14m 7s):
The board is a regulatory body. They're not they're not your priest. You know, they're not Whether or not you've really you're really sorry. They're deciding whether or not you're a safe provider officially the board's mission is to protect the health safety and Welfare of people in the state of Tennessee board members and staff repeat that mission all the time like a mantra but since Rebecca's been following the board. She seen a bunch of cases like that OBGYN we're doctors have done something really bad seemingly, irredeemable and somehow they've managed to keep their medical licenses. They're out there working as doctors in Tennessee right now. So this became the question of her research what was going wrong in the system?

1 (14m 51s):
Why were these doctors allowed to keep working? One case in particular became the focus of her attention because it seemed like a perfect storm of regulatory failure. That's what I'm going to tell you about today. It's about a doctor named Michael. Lapaglia. I'll start the story back in 2013. Lapaglia was working as an ER doctor at the time and late one night police got a call about a domestic disturbance at his house when the police arrived they smelled weed and searched the house. They found actually let me just read from the police officers affidavit. Quote a search is a residence pursuant to the search warrant revealed 45 quart-size mason jars, which contained marijuana 127 Glass Pipes used to smoke marijuana glock 19 9 millimeter grow light with ballast timer digital scale and Ledger detailing name / amounts.

1 (15m 43s):
Also discovered were approximately 52 diazepam 22 amphetamine and 24 Oxycodone pills in addition police found on a shelf in the padua's office. Vials of fentanyl morphine and propofol which is used for general anesthesia, the Penguins girlfriend told police that he had threatened to use that stuff to kill her in the petition. She filed for a restraining order the next day. She said quote Michael told me that if I ever contacted the police for help or reported his drug use Michael would use his powers as a physician to have me committed to psychiatric facility Michael stated he would make sure my body wouldn't be found Michael stated that he would.

1 (16m 24s):
My life away. I'm in fear for my life and my son's life. The Paglia told police his girlfriend was delusional. He was arrested and charged with two drug felonies intent to distribute a controlled substance and intent to distribute marijuana. He pled no contest and went to Inpatient Rehab. He was addicted to valium at the time. He lost his job at the hospital the medical board put him on probation and he surrendered his DEA registration number which is the thing you have to have to prescribe controlled substances. That's a big deal. It's very hard to get a job. Once you've lost your DEA number. No one wants to touch him. Nope. No employer is going to take him very few employers.

1 (17m 5s):
Anyway with a record like that private insurance. Forget it Hospital. Forget it a few years later. He files for bankruptcy because you know, there's there's no way to earn money back at the same clip as you are as an ER physician. But he got a job at an addiction Clinic a friend of his owned. It was called EHC Express Healthcare. The Piggly would see patients like a regular doctor work up a treatment plan and everything and then another doctor would write their prescriptions. The Philippines Leah helped a friend of his. Dr. Charles Brooks get a job at Express Healthcare to dr. Brooks was also on probation with the medical board.

1 (17m 48s):
He'd had sex with a patient. He says they were having an affair and at least once given her a controlled substance. He says to calm her nerves because they were having an affair but unlike dr. Lapaglia. He did not lose his DEA number. He could still prescribed. Dr. Lapaglia left EHC and in early 2018 he and dr. Brooks started up a little side business. So he and dr. Brooks kind of hatched this plan. Lapaglia and Brooks realized. Okay. Well, here's what we're going to do. We're going to start a clinic call it Allenby Healthcare lapaglia and Brooks, but look how ugly. It doesn't have a DEA number. So we'll use Brooks's lapaglia is going to do the work. He's going to write the prescriptions.

1 (18m 28s):
It's his phone number on the Prescription Pad that they make out, but it's Brooks's DEA number. And it's Brooks is signature. Sometimes they were pre-signed sometimes lapaglia forged the signature on they sell them for $300 cash out of alpaca his home at least once in a McDonald's parking lot. L&v, Healthcare didn't have an actual brick and mortar office lapaglia would see people wherever it was convenient write prescriptions for Controlled Substances, like Klonopin Valium and Suboxone when the facts came out about their operation, it looked like they were Selling prescriptions for cash like drug dealers with stethoscopes.

1 (19m 8s):
Lapaglia Brooke say that's not the case at all. But they were legitimately treating people with addiction Problems by prescribing them Controlled Substances. It's something called medication-assisted treatment like the way methadone is used to treat heroin addictions. So that's what they said. They were doing regardless. It was still illegal a few months into the Venture the feds busted them charge them with drug trafficking for writing prescriptions for controlled substances. Without the authority to do so and fraud for using Brooks's DEA number in the scam Brooks plead not guilty. But dr. Lapaglia signed a plea deal with Federal prosecutors. He still waiting to be sentenced, but he could be facing prison time.

1 (19m 51s):
So that's the Federal Criminal Court lapaglia still had to face the Tennessee Medical Board and when they found out about L&B Healthcare, they summarily suspended The Doctors Medical licenses until they could hold disciplinary hearings for them. The case unfolded over three hearings from March to July 20 1941 in March was the disciplinary hearing for lapaglia as partner. Dr. Brooks Rebecca was there she'd been going to medical board meetings for year at that point and I see this guy who is doing something that actually even I think the Physicians on the board find really offensive which is giving up control of your your pad and to hand it over.

1 (20m 36s):
To somebody else is really seen as pretty honest. Unethical most doctors don't view their path as as a money maker these Medical Board disciplinary hearings are technically administrative courts. They run kind of like the criminal and civil court systems. But the question they're addressing is more pointed. It's whether a doctor should be allowed to continue to practice medicine. Dr. Lapaglia agreed to testify against dr. Brooks in front of the medical board the signature on that prescription says Charles Brooks, correct? Correct that your signature V my writing. Yes, just to set the stage. The guy asking the questions is Andrew Kaufman.

1 (21m 17s):
He's the prosecuting attorney. He works for the Tennessee Department of Health. Dr. Lapaglia is the one answering his questions. Well you are partners with Dr. Brooks to your knowledge was he aware that you were signing his name to point prescriptions? Yes, what makes you think that he was aware because sometimes I would run out of pre-signed prescriptions. And had to do what I had to do to take care of the patient and we've discussed it when you went to work for. with Dr. Brooks, did you believe that what you were doing was against the law?

1 (22m 2s):
No, dr. Peckler was like, yeah, I think we probably cut some Corners. I think you know mistakes were made that we discussed it and we knew that what we were doing wasn't ideal because we had very little resources to get started but we never imagined that we were breaking the law. His General attitude was like error in judgment, you know, it's not a big deal has your opinion changed about whether you were breaking the law. Yes, why because Federal prosecutors have convinced me. Otherwise I spoke with dr.

1 (22m 47s):
Lapaglia. He didn't want me to record our conversation and we didn't talk for long before he got off the phone, but he reiterated to me that he and dr. Brooks didn't think they were doing anything wrong when they worked in addiction clinics the doctors there would hand prescriptions to receptionist's and the receptionist would call them into a pharmacy. It happened all the time. He told me quote we did not see any difference between him giving me verbal authorization to call them in and verbal. The relation to write a prescription they still don't see a difference and if someone had a problem with that the federal government had a problem with that they could have just told us to stop they didn't have to indict us and charged with two felonies.

1 (23m 27s):
I reached out to dr. Lapaglia several times after that initial call, but he declined my request to talk further. There were three board members here in dr. Brooks has case that day and they were not swayed by this defense that they didn't know they were doing anything wrong that they were just trying to help their drugs. Sick patients. In fact the board members suspected that lmb Health Care was not a legitimate business at all. Here's dr. Charles. Hahndorf, one of the board members questioning. Dr. Lapaglia did the clinic ever apply for or receive a business license? No did the clinic ever apply? Or register an Articles of Incorporation with the Secretary of State Tennessee has the clinic ever filed tax returns NASA date now.

1 (24m 21s):
Okay, so sitting here, it sounds like this isn't a business at all. So that was dr. Lapaglia testifying at dr. Brooks has disciplinary hearing in front of the medical board. Once Brooks's case was adjudicated. It was the Paglia Stern for discipline. He and his attorney had worked out a deal with Andrew Kaufman the Department of Health attorney. It's called the consent order. It's basically the board's version of a plea deal. So at the next board meeting in May Kaufman presented this deal to the board members the board had to decide whether to accept it good morning and your coffin with the office of general counsel. And here's what the deal was basically lapaglia.

1 (25m 2s):
Go back to practicing medicine and another month, but he'd be on probation for five years and he'd have to be monitored by physicians addiction group and he'd be banned from prescribing Controlled Substances for two years. It's similar to what dr. Brooks got in March but slightly less because lapaglia had admitted guilt and had testified against Brooks. It's what they call a downward departure in the criminal system cooperating Witnesses often get lighter sentences. It's supposed to give people an incentive to tell the truth. But the board was not having it with this deal. It looked at lapaglia and saw guy whose medical license was already on probation when he used another doctor's prescription pad to write controlled substance prescriptions.

1 (25m 44s):
Here's dr. John Hale one of the board members this seems rather lie. I mean, we just had a physician who's prescriptions were stolen and his fines were significantly more than that. I can't in good conscience. Approve this. I'm sorry. The board has 12 members appointed by the governor. And three of them are not doctors. They're called consumer members in this case a real estate agent and academic advisor and a political fundraiser. They were even more pissed than the doctors on the board. This man doesn't need to be on the streets or in his office writing prescriptions in the state of Tennessee.

1 (26m 26s):
As far as I'm concerned and we're charged with the responsibility of protecting the citizens of Tennessee. So that's my concern. Turn so how do we get to that point? Well, you can the only

3 (26m 37s):
thing you can do today is reject those orders.

1 (26m 39s):
Thank you councilman. I probably missed school. I would really appreciate your Insight to is another thing. Remember I share their feelings completely. I live in Knoxville. I know this week Donald eat. I you know II think that he could be back there ever is scary to me as a consumer member and Or as I have young daughters and you know, this man is not safe to be out in the public. I don't think Miss Jones just the tour guides representation here. This McDonald's has two blocks away from one of the major high schools in Knoxville. So again, I agree with her.

1 (27m 20s):
This man does not need to be on the streets with this type of ability all in favor of denying the motion for this order on knuckle Hialeah say I the board rejected the plea deal. It was unanimous. So now dr. Lapaglia is case will go to trial. For the medical board version of a trial a contested case hearing where he has the possibility of getting a much heavier discipline. They could suspend his license for even longer for instance or even revoke it all together. I had been following this case. And so yeah, I wanted a full hearing I wanted the opportunity to see dr. Lapaglia testify and to maybe try to talk to him and I figured everything was lining up for them to finally throw the book at somebody Rebecca had been to several of these disciplinary hearings by that.

1 (28m 10s):
Then she'd seen so many doctors get away with what she considered to be light punishment, but it seemed like the board was finally going to put his foot down with lapaglia. Danach Eva's coming out what goes wrong when the board gets a chance to finally put its foot down. That's in a minute. There's Cog a public radio when our program continues Support for This American Life comes from Capital One. Welcome to banking reimagined Capital One checking and savings accounts have no fees or minimums and a top-rated banking app that lets you manage your money anytime anywhere check on the account balance deposit checks pay bills and transfer money on the go.

1 (28m 55s):
This is banking reimagined. What's in your wallet Capital One na member FDIC This American Life from Ira Glass today's program trust me. I'm a doctor we have stories about people trying to do civic-minded things for their own communities and in the case of medical boards, sometimes failing to accomplish that job the way that lots of us would want them to right now. We are in the middle of dinner Services story and we pick up where we left off the Medical Board in Tennessee has rejected doctor. Lapaglia is plea deal and two months after that at the next meeting the board holds a hearing for his case. Here's Dana. How these hearings work, they're basically mini trials each case gets assigned to a panel of three board members.

1 (29m 38s):
The Paglia is panel was made up of two doctors in a consumer member they sit at the front of the room facing everyone else. Yes, and they're going to decide if the prosecutor has proven his case and if so how to discipline doctor lapaglia. There's also an administrative law judge who acts as a referee more than anything else today. The board will be considering the case of the Tennessee Department of Health. Has Michael lapaglia behold? Dr. Lapaglia Hearing in the iris room a name which defies the interior decorators Vision beige carpet beige walls fluorescent lights. Any doctor lapaglia is sitting at a table with his attorney facing the panel the prosecutor Andrew Kaufman.

1 (30m 18s):
He sitting at a table to the right Rebecca's are two in the front row. It was really weird. It was weird from the first moment when they did opening statements. Good morning. I made your coffee. Whew her May introduce myself earlier the prosecutor went first. Mr. Kaufman, and he said we're gonna hear a lot of facts today good bad and ugly. You know, this is a rare case where we basically agree with defense Counsel on everything and in an unusual twist, there's not much dispute between the parties about what those facts are whether they're good bad or ugly. It was just kind of a half-hearted prosecution. I mean, okay. It's an administrative hearing is a little more casual than a criminal trial or something, but it's meant to be adversarial now.

1 (31m 1s):
I think that Having this is going to show the doctor lapaglia believed that he was providing. Good treatment people that actually have a need for that treatment Kaufman is there to prosecute the Paglia but it seems like he's going pretty easy on him like that 2013 drug bust the one with the cops found Valium oxycodone and feta means marijuana a gonna scale a ledger paralytic agents and other sedatives Hoffman doesn't say the charge was possession with intent to deliver. He just says lapaglia plead to some charges that related to his own personal use of Substances outside the bounds of the law and the very next month if I were Prosecuting that I would probably use some stronger language lapaglia is coming across as a guy who once struggled with the substance use disorder, but God help sobered up and then in the course of trying to help other people who suffer from drug addictions unwittingly bumbled his way into this next bit of trouble with dr.

1 (32m 0s):
Brooks. Here's how lapaglia is defense attorney also described him in his opening statement. He may be dumb, but he's a good doctor. He's irresponsible. He's responsible. He's done a lot to help the community. It's like everyone in this trial was on. Dr. Lapaglia side. I asked Andrew Kaufman why he handled the case the way he did. He said basically this case wasn't contentious by its very nature. His job was to prove the doctor lapaglia had written prescriptions for Controlled Substances using another doctor's prescription pad. His star witness, dr.

1 (32m 40s):
Lapaglia who had admitted repeatedly that yes, he had used. Dr. Brooks has pad to write prescriptions for controlled substances. But also there's another reason why the prosecution was maybe a bit anemic in this case the Department of Health attorneys Kaufman and his colleagues were feeling frustrated when this whole thing started back in March at dr. Brooks is hearing. Dr. Brooks lapaglia co-conspirator. Kaufman had asked the board to revoke. Dr. Brooks has license, but the board rejected that said it was too harsh. So the prosecutors went easier on the Paglia in his plea deal and then the board rejected that said, Went too easy on him.

1 (33m 21s):
There was no consistency to their logic Kaufman's boss said later at a board retreat where they discuss this case that they felt a little bit knocked down by the whole thing. So it lapaglia is hearing Kaufman just presented the straight facts of the case and told the panel with their options were for disciplining him didn't suggest the punishment. They didn't know what the hell the board wanted. So they didn't try to guess and this brings us to the single biggest problem Rebecca season the system the doctors who Sit on these medical boards. It's a distinguished position to be on the Tennessee Board of medical examiner's.

1 (34m 1s):
They have to be appointed by the governor. There's a full-time staff that supports the board attorneys administrators medical consultants and they sit in Judgment of doctors. But as far as judges go, they're amateurs. Most of them are doctors. They have lots of training in medicine and very little training in administrative law. The deciders and dr. Lapaglia is case the three board members on his panel or julienne Cole. She's a consumer member. Dr. Phyllis Miller and OB-GYN and dr. Steven Lloyd. Dr. Lloyd was the newest member of the board. He'd never done any of this before. In fact, this was his second day on the job.

3 (34m 41s):
I've even had orientation. I mean I walk in there and never been to a board meeting. I read all the ruins

1 (34m 46s):
when they were like, we're going to split off into panels for the for the contested case hearings. Now. Did you have any sense? Of what that meant or what it would look

3 (34m 53s):
like. Nope

1 (34m 55s):
none. So what did you do? Did somebody tell you like you go into this room with these people?

3 (35m 2s):
What about do? Yeah, she had a sideways brick is what I did. I mean I had no idea, you know, it's just a very confusing seen that the first time you're in because I'm just I just didn't understand the decorum. I didn't understand how this proceeding. I mean I had, you know, I'm sitting in there and and when the guy who came in who looked like a judge and talk like a judge, but what does this look like it is this real court and by the jury and if I am the Do I behave the same way a jury behaves?

1 (35m 33s):
Dr. Lloyd told me he did have a brief orientation that morning but no special training no real prep for this. Basically. He was just thrown into it. So it dr. Lapaglia his hearing he kind of winged it what would his gut and he identified with dr. Lapaglia? Dr. Lloyd is an addiction doctor. He spent two years as Tennessee's opioids are and also like lapaglia. He's in recovery from a pill

3 (35m 58s):
addiction and it's so You know, was there presenting this you know, here's this here's this figure that I don't know the background on that looks pretty sympathetic. He done the things you need to do. I'm a second chance guy.

1 (36m 10s):
He really did to dr. Lapaglia. He'd also made bad decisions while in the throes of a drug addiction, although to be clear lapaglia testified. He was sober at the time. He was writing the fraudulent prescriptions and had been for years.

3 (36m 24s):
I think doc waited, you know, hey this guy did these things, you know, well, I didn't write scripts. I You know, I stole medication from people which is you know, which is bad and I got better and and I think he can get better

1 (36m 45s):
for Lloyd lapaglia said all the right things. He said he was drawn to treating people with addictions to benzes because that's what he was addicted to. He said he took issue with the way addiction clinics were treating patients with benzo addictions that they weren't giving them enough pills to taper effectively. They were given possibly two weeks worth of benzodiazepine and then taking off. Okay, and what would happen after they were taken out where they just clean of benzos it's never going to happen. So what would happen they're going to relapse 100% I could see dr. Lloyd nodding along like when dr. Lapaglia was talking about like the problem of dual addiction between opiates and benzos and the problem of relapse on Ben's.

1 (37m 29s):
I was like I could see dr. Lloyd nodding along.

3 (37m 31s):
But I heard from he'll miss I've got these patients who are addicted to benzos these doctors don't know what they're doing trying to get them off and you actually can't get them off that quick. They'll just relapse he's exactly right. That's exactly right

1 (37m 44s):
after the attorneys were done questioning. Dr. Lapaglia the board members got a turn the first of all thanks, Sophie lapaglia for coming today being honest. Here's dr. Lloyd. So your training addiction is on the job from the folks at Express and then ate our XY yes, correct. Okay, but most of his questions. He's testing lapaglia trying to see if he really understands addiction medicine. Can you tell me how you expect a bullish a diagnosis of substance use disorder severe? Through discussion taking the drug history going over medical history with the patient.

1 (38m 24s):
And so did you ever in follow the criteria the DSM-5 for substance use disorder and classifications of mild moderate and severe. No, we didn't put that in the chart. Okay, and then when you're trying by the way, I 100% agree with you about the prevalence of benzos. The throttle but when you're when you're treating benzodiazepine, dependence, what what is your what is your goal? Complete abstinence is the golden. Okay? Okay. So how do you get there extremely slowly this goes on for several minutes.

1 (39m 4s):
Dr. Lloyd only asks two questions about the lnb scheme itself when they finally get to deliberations. Dr. Lloyd speaks first. I'm the newest member of this committee or this board and I was told it my charge was to protect the health safety and Welfare of the citizens the state of, Tennessee. And do I believe that that that taking doctors with Bagley as license? Does that actually don't I don't believe that that it does that from what I saw today and you know, hopefully I'm a decent judge of somebody's heart. I saw somebody that cares about taking good care of a population that struggles to find help.

1 (39m 47s):
That's what I saw. One aspect of these Medical Board hearings that's very different from a criminal trial because of transparency laws in Tennessee. The panel members have to deliberate in the open in front of dr. Lapaglia. Rebecca says, this is another reason the discipline can be so light. It's really awkward for them raises some potential issues like at one point while the panel members are considering requiring dr. Lapaglia to get board certified in addiction medicine lapaglia interrupts them steers them away from it. Do we To require him to do that or and if he doesn't complete I respectfully ask no because I may change my mind or something else may happen.

1 (40m 28s):
If I don't fulfill that requirement, I'm never going to get off probation. The administrative judge has to break in and tell them to quit talking to each other in the end. Here's what the panel decides they're going to restore doctor lapaglia his medical license, which have been summarily suspended in January when the board first found out about the lnb scheme. As punishment they give him five years probation make him report to the Tennessee Medical Foundation. It's a physician substance abuse group and they tell them to take a few professional courses. They don't prohibit him from prescribing Controlled Substances. He still doesn't have a DEA number. So technically he can't anyway, but he could petition the DEA to get it back.

1 (41m 10s):
They don't restrict that either. It's actually a light. Discipline than what he would have gotten from the plea agreement. The one the board throughout for being too easy on him. So yeah, it was a slap on the wrist doctor lapaglia was all smiles afterwards. So I had chatted with him at the brakes and he was sort of saying, you know, I'm just hoping again get my license back and I you know, and I got this Federal thing I got to deal with and so for some reason they decided to insert this language at the end that says and you know to give him A full path back to full licensure and when they read that out loud, dr.

1 (41m 53s):
Lapaglia winked at me. Oh, which really surprised me. It just really surprised me. I was like did that just happen? Well, as you interpret his wink, I think that he was sort of saying like see I'm getting what I wanted. I guess. I think it went even better than he expected. I think that might be why he winked at me. So I went up to him afterwards to talk to him and by the time I Chatted with him a couple times and he said something like I'm just glad to have my license off of suspension so I can make some money. It was a real kind of 180 from the like patient care test testimony that he had just provided.

1 (42m 34s):
I reached out to dr. Lapaglia about this, but he didn't get back to me. So here you've got a doctor who lost his DEA number when he was caught with illegal prescription drugs and marijuana at his house in what looked very much like a drug trafficking operation whose medical license was put on probation who then went out and broke the law again by using another doctors DEA number to prescribe controlled substances, and now here he is back on probation with the medical board still with a medical license, which means he can still work as a doctor. In the years that she's been going the medical board meetings Rebecca has watched a bunch of doctors with egregious histories.

1 (43m 19s):
Keep practicing medicine doctors who have committed Health Care fraud doctors who prescribe Controlled Substances for people who aren't their patients doctors who have sex with patients one doctor prescribed large doses of opioids and Other Drugs, even though the patients had no medical reason for taking them prosecutors asked the board to permanently revoke his license, but he was only put on probation as far as I can tell Tennessee is fairly typical a statistical study ranked medical boards on the scale of how harsh to light. Their discipline was Tennessee was smack in the middle. Of course, I'm talking about the worst case in the medical board sees and the board does revoke some doctors licenses since 2017.

1 (44m 1s):
They've taken 13 licenses away and 11 doctors have voluntarily surrendered them. That's a significant punishment as one board member explain to me a medical license is technically a property, right? And it's a big deal to take someone's property from them. But something does seem to be happening where medical boards which are set up to protect the public to protect the majority of us who never think to ask whether our doctors are safe and operating in our best interests. Sometimes the medical boards are letting dangerous doctors continue to practice medicine like on the one hand. I feel like on some level. I understand this problem because I spent so long studying it. I've seen all the angles.

1 (44m 42s):
I've seen how the personalities play out in the incentives and the emotions and everything, but there's also a way I just don't get it. Like I don't understand why they won't just take the guy's license. What's the part of you? That understands it? I think that there's a identification that's not as specific as though that could be me. That's still in play of just being a doctor. Like this is our calling. We went to similar through similar sets of trainings. We started out walking down the same path. So I think there is some like identification at a kind of very high professional level like a circling the wagons, you know, like we're doctors and then I think there's also an in this is probably especially bad for doctors, but They're just kind of softies.

1 (45m 39s):
They just believe that everybody can be healed and can be made better and are sick and deserving of compassion. I mean, that's like what's like this really ironic and like sad to me is that it's in some ways this whole problem is created by that like better part of human nature or the part. That's full of Mercy. Rebecca solution to this whole thing. Well, I think we need to abolish licensing boards to be perfectly honest instead of having doctors sit in Judgment of other doctors and instead of having them do this as a favor to society every few months.

1 (46m 22s):
Rebecca says have full-time employees whose job it is to regulate the industry who are trained to notice when they're being affected by the emotional sway of a defendant and to put their feelings aside as much as possible like a judge would Dr. Lloyd agrees with Rebecca in part he admits. He did relate to lapaglia and it influenced how he thought about discipline

3 (46m 45s):
process all the facts of the case written down on a piece of paper. Right? Just spoon right down here started the top to the bottom and I get to read that piece of paper without anybody from either side, right and I just read that. I revoke his license

1 (46m 59s):
just based on the he used another doctors. DEA license number to prescribe

3 (47m 6s):
patients just just just based on flat facts drug charges use another doctors DEA license, huh, you know drug-dealing right? Just just the plain facts. No, no defense attorney. No prosecutor. I just saw that written down on a piece of paper. No lapaglia room. I revoke his license. Hmm. It's so interesting and this is some well as something I've gained an appreciation for and I think and I am really trying to work on this as a board member. It is very difficult to sit there with another human being in front of you and You know what?

3 (47m 50s):
I want to say drop the hammer. Yeah, it's a human being right? It's much easier on a sheet of paper right? Because when I'm sitting there I see a guy that's presenting this way. He doesn't look emaciated. He looks healthy. He's dressed professionally. He's got a child that he has emotion around like me as a dad. Do I want to give him a chance to get that back? Yeah, I do.

1 (48m 16s):
But it's not fair to say that's the whole reason the case. When asked you the doctors look too kindly on a fellow doctor sitting before them because when considering what to do with lapaglia his medical license and whether he should be a practicing doctor the board members never got a full airing of his past misdeeds as soon as the hearing was over. Dr. Lapaglia did something that made dr. Lloyd suspicious.

3 (48m 39s):
I stood up and and you know was headed out and he approached me and I can't remember his exact words. but it was very placating almost like hey, I appreciate what you've done in your own life. I would like to have that right that kind of thing. Hmm, and I knew and I knew it was bullshit.

1 (49m 2s):
He felt like he was being manipulated something about lapaglia is a effect felt fake.

3 (49m 8s):
I knew I had made a mistake my little man inside of me that I use as my barometer people like all Man Steve. This guy is a shyster. He kissed my ass and I couldn't fucking stand. I'm sorry too because they know that I'm fine. I couldn't stand. Stand it warm. It's why I went outside and Googled it. I said goodbye to everybody. I walked out to my car. I grab my phone or my truck. I sat there and I Google his name and the first article that popped up in the way. I searched it was the article about his his domestic violence

1 (49m 45s):
Andrew Kaufman didn't talk about the restraining order against lapaglia at the trial. It's not a criminal charge and besides he said, Ed well, it clearly demonstrates bad conduct. It isn't bad conduct related to the practice of medicine, but that's not all he left out in 2010 while working as an ER doctor the Paglia did something that a federal appeals court said quote shocks the conscience. The police brought a young man named Felix Booker to the ER they suspected Booker was hiding drugs on his body of his but to be blunt doctor lapaglia asked book her to consent to a rectal exam Booker was naked except for a blanket and in handcuffs and leg shackles.

1 (50m 26s):
He said no lapaglia says Booker consented to the exam, but nobody else who was in the room heard this there's no medical record of it. The Bagley tried to examine him Booker clenched his muscles. So the Paglia had him Uh dated hooker was still able to clench his muscles down. So lapaglia had him medically paralyzed intubated him and did the rectal exam. He found a rock of crack lapaglia testified at Booker's trial that he done rectal exams on to other people the police had brought into him the year after that. There was a fourth guy Wesley Gully Gully alleged. He got the same treatment lapaglia asked him to consent to a rectal exam.

1 (51m 6s):
He said no, but vaguely a threatened to sedate him. And paralyze him. So he relented the Paglia did the rectal exam and found nothing the police charged collie with resisting arrest a hospital charge them for the rectal exam. But apparently nothing ever happened to dr. Lapaglia. He wasn't criminally charged for the warrantless. No consent rectal searches. He didn't even lose his job at the hospital. The searches were reported to the Department of Health, but dr. Lapaglia was not disciplined for them and in a cruel regulatory irony because he was not disciplined. There's no public record of why the board did not discipline him. Dr. Lloyd actually found out about the rectal searches from Rebecca.

1 (51m 48s):
They had coffee a few weeks after dr. Lapaglia is hearing.

3 (51m 51s):
I mean that's bringing up emotions right now. I can't even then somebody who's taken advantage of their position of power. That's not forgivable. Maybe God will forgive him. I can't I can tell you this if you paralyzed my son in the ER are the fucking killed it. Let me know what if I would have went after I don't care. They just said, you know, well you're going to you know, you will pay consequences this thing fine. He paralyzed it. He paralyzed his muscles. Against his against his consent. God did not give consent for that

1 (52m 24s):
me I had to be intubated. I mean I couldn't even breathe on his own.

3 (52m 30s):
No. No, you can't be paralyzed almost with your diaphragm is a muscle. All right, so you're not gonna be able to breathe. And yeah, and that's that's somebody who will do anything. It's just incomprehensible to

1 (52m 43s):
me. Dr. Lloyd and the other board members on the previous panel all they knew was that lapaglia had been on probation with the board once before for charges related to his personal drug use that even treated for a pill addiction and had stayed sober all these years and that he and dr. Brooks got caught selling prescriptions using. Dr. Brooks has DEA number which is a way tidier story than the one I just told you but Kaufman didn't talk about the rectal searches at dr. Le pied was hearing because of the Rules of Evidence. He told me It wouldn't have been admissible same for the details about the 2014 drug charges which by the way after lapaglia plead no contest.

1 (53m 23s):
He was put into something called judicial diversion. It's a kind of Probation and eventually the case was dismissed but more importantly Kaufman said this wasn't a hearing about everything lapaglia had ever done just this one crime the fraudulent prescriptions. Dr. Lloyd didn't learn about the rest of it until it was too late

3 (53m 42s):
when I'm looking at him up there. I mean look like he's doing what he's supposed to be doing. He's trying his best sure. That's what I felt and I think I am a good judge of that given all the facts. Yeah, but I didn't have a lot of holdbacks. How many stripes do I believe that somebody gets the meaning of they need in the real world? There's no such thing as the third strike to me, but this is not the real world. You have a professional medical license you can harm others there is They strike limit there.

1 (54m 11s):
Dr. Lloyd says, he asks a lot more questions now during these cases. So how to keep this from happening how to make sure the board gets a full picture of a doctor's career and past misdeeds before they decide how to discipline them. Rebecca points to a simple and practical solution separate the disciplinary hearing into two parts have one hearing where the board hears evidence and decides if a doctor is guilty of the charges and another hearing where the doctor is disciplined and at that point they can learn other information about a defendant's past both good and bad. That's how Criminal Courts work. Once the jury has determined a person's guilt. The judge is the one who does the sentencing and gets to hear more about the defendant.

1 (54m 54s):
The solution Rebecca points out has the benefit of being readily available to the board. It's already legal under Tennessee law. Last September the medical board members and staff had an off-site Retreat Rebecca was there she recorded it for her notes for her book on licensing boards. And one of the things they discussed was dr. Lapaglia is case what had gone wrong. Dr. Lloyd was still upset about it. Dr. Lapaglia is a practicing doctor in Tennessee right now. He does house calls for $50 cash and Lloyd explained what he sees as the real problem with that kind of outcome with this.

1 (55m 35s):
For a discipline, they gave lapaglia they've made it so he can't get a job at a hospital or a medical clinic but he can still see patients. Dr. Lloyd said quote he can only work in a cash based practice. And so the most vulnerable tennesseans are the ones at risk and that's not awesome because the very population that I work personally with on a daily basis. I just put somebody back out there and I'm struggling with that. Dan Chavez is one of the producers of our program Rebecca allensworth wrote about medical boards.

1 (56m 16s):
And dr. Lapaglia is case for the New York Review of Books. If you've Apollo bar a small hotel, you need a license for all yourself. You may think I'm Dancing, but the even thank you for singing and dancing. You need a license. Whatever you do one or two things. They've Exempted. It's true lumbago the gout or a touch of the flu. You don't need a license for that.

1 (56m 56s):
Now I've got a license for cheaper program is pretty silly by Sean called the people who put our program together today includes Bim out of wound me on a baker Susan Burton Ben Calhoun David Chivas of even the Corn Festival. Don't worry outcomes. No gilding and Grave Nikki next. Oh Nelson Catherine Romano. Naughty Raymond, Robin semien, will the Sullivan Christopher Street? Alamat Tierney, Julie Whitaker and Diane who are managing editor Sarah abdirahman senior editor David chaston bomber executive editor manual Berry special. Thanks David windy. Helgeson read magni Scott McDonald and Jacob Helberg our website This American Life dot-org, you can stream our Archive of over 700 episodes for absolutely free. Plus there's videos. There's lists of favorite.

1 (57m 36s):
Rams there's tons of other stuff on there, too. Again that website This American Life dot-org This American Life is to give it a public radio stations by PRX the public radio exchange sport for This American Life comes from all birds a sustainable shoe. Brand All Birds goal is to make products that do right by your feet and the planet or in more about their sustainable practices and find your pair at all birds.com. Thanks as always your pickups co-founder. Mr. Troy mallick Tia here. Why for finally taking their first vacation since quarantine, I think they're gonna have a good time. You read me they're packing list 45 quart-size mason jars, which contained marijuana 127 Glass Pipes used to smoke marijuana glock 19 9 millimeter.

1 (58m 22s):
I'm Ira Glass back next week with more stories of This American Life. Hey Shin that Richmond is licensed by law a chapter is girl said now you hold your joy. Hey, you know exactly what I'm fishing for. Or and I don't need a license for that.