1 (1s):
Support for This American Life comes from Capital One right now. You can earn 100,000 bonus miles. You can actually use redeemable for vacation rentals car rentals and more when you spend $20,000 in your first year with the Capital One Venture Card, what's in your wallet limited time offer terms apply see capitalone.com for details. Support for This American Life comes from Sierra Nevada Brewing Company family-owned operated and argued over since 1980 proud supporter of independent thought whether that's online over the air or in a can or bottle more at Sierra Nevada.com.

1 (42s):
It is crucial this election, Florida, Florida, Florida. One of the people who thinks about that a lot is Kevin cheeky. He's the guy whose job it is to spend a hundred million dollars. The billionaire Mike Bloomberg is devoted to winning part of for Joe Biden Shaggy is not intimidated by that task at all. He spent lots of blooms money in the past here and Bloomberg's three successful runs for New York mayor and his campaign for president this year and Mike likes to say he gave me an unlimited budget and I exceeded every each and every time I actually don't offend to do that state of Florida. So why Florida of all the Battleground States why a hundred million dollars there Kevin explain that a big part of it has to do with what's going to happen.

1 (1m 23s):
In other states. He pointed to all the times tweets and in speeches that the president has said that mail-in ballots cannot be trusted. Donald Trump has sought to deal with Gemma ties.

2 (1m 36s):
All Mount mail-in

1 (1m 37s):
ballots.

2 (1m 40s):
And is clearly will have a plan to

1 (1m 42s):
contest those pallets after election day as they Counted in important swing states such as Michigan and Pennsylvania, which Joe Biden is currently leading in Michigan would take at least three days to counterbalance. Pennsylvania is not much different Trump is said listen. I'm going to take every lawyer and every judge I have I'm going to question every single bout and try to toss them out and just throwing out ballots by random could really move those States from binding to trunk. That's because my Democrats are doing mail-in ballots than Republicans are this year? Bloomberg's people have actually run the numbers and calculated their states were throwing out seven percent of the ballots at random for not being filled out correctly, which will the Biden victory in that state to a trump Victory and that's a very dangerous proposition.

1 (2m 28s):
And that's what we're trying to avoid by getting the Florida but it is the state that Donald Trump pretty much has to win. If you lose this fire out it would be enormously difficult for them to gather enough electoral votes to have re-election. And this is key for it is a state that counts Maryland ballet.

2 (2m 44s):
As they

1 (2m 45s):
arrived the counting them right now already which means we very well could know the results in Florida on Election night and if are two ghosts Biden it might settle the race that night and our ultimate goal is to win the State of Florida so that we quite frankly don't have to have that fight in the state of Pennsylvania. So how do you pick a hundred million? What was that discussion? Like, you know,

2 (3m 13s):
I was it I think

1 (3m 15s):
it was ultimately what we determined we would need it was the number that we thought we would make a difference. I called a guy who I know who was probably the smartest strategist on the Democratic side and I asked him how much would you need to spend if you wanted to be able to have an impact on a race Statewide race in a presidential in Florida? And how much would you need to really put your thumb on the scale? And he said at the time well, you know for is an extraordinarily expensive state it has a lot. Of a large expensive media markets and and to have any sort of impact you really need to spend 20 million dollars. And if you really want to put your thumb on the scale, you're going to need to spend seventy billion dollars.

1 (3m 58s):
And so this thing Bloomberg we rounded up. Most of that Bloomberg money is going to TV ads and digital ads dropped into cities all across the state like a vast air War conducted from 30,000 feet. Kevin cheeky says Bloomberg's doing daily polling to see what effect this is having. It's actually kind of hard to figure out all kinds of things push voter opinion around but Kevin says numbers in Florida have moved from a tie between Trump and Biden to a small Biden weed

2 (4m 31s):
but still within the margin of error,

1 (4m 32s):
but it's a lead two to four points, but the Bloomberg people find encouraging so That's the view from 30,000 feet down the ground looks a little different because if something so basic and that's a coronavirus and how the two campaigns have responded to the coronavirus as you may know over the summer. The Democratic party policy was do not go door-to-door do not hold events in person. Do not hold rallies Republicans did all that stuff and if are they even before the virus they were doing more and registering more voters than the Democrats? In sheer numbers, there are more registered Democrats in the state than Republicans. But since 2016, the Republicans have knocked that lead down used to be seven percent now, it's just three and a half percent of quarter of the voters in the state have no party affiliation.

1 (5m 21s):
So the Republicans were going strong before the virus and after the virus had the state they resumed normal operations. Well, the Democrats were not going out to campaign. It was like one party was out there in the streets visible and the other was just Not one of our producers Lena mitzi's has been talking too far to Democrats about all that and Lana have a feeling

2 (5m 44s):
not great or at least not the ones that I talked to uh-huh. Okay. So there's this one voter. I found Margie. Hope she's in a suburb called Weston, which is in one of the bluest counties in Florida. It's Broward County, which is just North of Miami. Hmm. But she says that the Republican presence is so much more noticeable that her house is somehow surrounded by Trump signs, and there's almost Joe Biden signs and her neighborhood. Wow. Yeah, and like she sees Trump supporters everywhere. The that frustrating thing that is happening is when I get texts from my friends with picture saying, oh my God a carload of trump supporters. Just got out in my neighborhood and they're going they're knocking on doors right now, but we have been not able to do that.

2 (6m 28s):
So four years ago Hillary Clinton's campaign had an office near Marty's house in Weston, and that's where people would go to pick up sign. To phone bank like to meet up with each other Biden doesn't even have offices set up yet here. Okay, we haven't been able to we haven't gotten campaign material we have it. I mean, it's how hard is it to just put stuff on somebody's door we could get Weston done. There's like 65,000 people living here. We could get them done in a weekend. And and that's where the frustration is. I the minute we would put a cot like we, you know a call-out I know that I'd get a ton of people to come out because we're all dying to do this. Not only is my G keeping track of what her sight isn't doing.

2 (7m 8s):
She's keeping track of what the other side is doing. She actually signed up for her County the Broward County like local Republican

1 (7m 16s):
newsletter. Wait, why

2 (7m 18s):
because every day like when it sends out its daily emailed that lists all of the event like the campaign events that they have coming up for the Republicans, uh, she likes to keep track of it and it kind of drives her crazy. Just noticing all of these events at their running they are doing it it forms they are doing Watch parties for the debate. They had watch parties that at this place because when I used to go have breakfast at all the time, which we're not going to anymore because my cancer and they're hosting these shoes watching I could send you all these pictures of these people asked us the debate probably,

1 (7m 51s):
you know to a lot

3 (7m 52s):
of young

2 (7m 57s):
they make a lot of noise and they make their presence known. I also talked to Marty's friend Julie. She checks the Republican events, too. And while Marty sounds kind of indignant when she talks about it, Julie sounds

1 (8m 9s):
almost wistful.

2 (8m 10s):
They had pictures on the community Facebook page and they had a watch party and I thought well, that's nice. I mean they weren't I mean most of them weren't wearing masks. So I know that that something that a lot of people would be hesitant to do but it just seemed like it was something that involved community that they were sitting together around going. Hey, we are a group We are here and they kind of support each other and it's kind of something that I wish we could replicate and we're a strong in the absence of their own official meetups. I found a bunch of frustrated Democrats like all over Florida not just in Broward who took matters into their own hands like what are you doing?

2 (8m 53s):
Okay, there's a woman in Oviedo, which is a small red town and she's been hosting these very small rallies on street corners every Monday, Wednesday and Friday. Oh wow. Another example is a grandmother in Tallahassee who told me that she printed out a bunch of Florida voter registration forms, and she was handing them out to Young seeming people in the Walmart parking lot.

1 (9m 17s):
Now. I've read that the Biden campaign did finally start going door-to-door in Florida and other states to this fall.

2 (9m 24s):
Yes that happened two weeks after I started talking to Margie and she went out with them, but for her, it wasn't enough. Why am I canvassing 23 days before whatever 25 Days before an election I should have been canvassing 40 days before an election. You know how many how many people I mean hundreds of thousands of people have already voted in Florida,

3 (9m 51s):
but the inner shell histories of people reading worried about what is going to happen next and all that is still unknown future

1 (9m 59s):
is barreling towards them. They're going to

3 (10m 0s):
find out soon enough but not quite yet WBEZ Chicago since American Life American Glass and let's get to it Act One the School of Hard Knocks.

1 (10m 12s):
So Lina looked into whether the fears that you heard from Florida's Democrats are Justified are their leaders dropping the ball did the party pull back too far with the coronavirus precautions. She put together. This story

2 (10m 24s):
The think Democrats have been doing instead of door. Knocking phone calling and gone is the camaraderie of organizing everyone breathing in the same air and some makeshift. What campaign Center this volunteering is done from home? And here's what it looks like. Maria is a phone banking volunteer. She's 33 living in southeast Florida with her husband and her three-year-old son. Your entry does not match up. She works in Consulting and after work. She has 45 minutes to phone bank before her kid gets home. Maria was born in Colombia moved here when she was 16 with her parents.

2 (11m 6s):
She's a citizen now and not a fan of the president his comments against immigrants against women. I mean, I think almost every single position that's taken and every comment that he's made is against what I believe in what I think this country stands for Maria did door knocking in 2016 and she's doing phone banking now. I wanted her to compare them for me. And so I listened in while she phoned banked in 45 minutes. She dialed 28 phone numbers. Hi, this is Chris Knight of this 28 phone calls went to voice mail, which the Democrats mostly don't think it's worth it to leave messages after the beep one phone call a toddler picked up.

2 (11m 54s):
Hi, is this Caitlin? The kiddo seemed to put the phone down and walk away. Hello. Some grown-ups didn't want to get into it either with the Democratic party of Florida. Of course not everyone Maria spoke to favorite her side. Oh, you will okay. Bye. There were three calls like that. Gio I'm sorry. I don't think he's wanted to be Be thanked the goal of these calls.

2 (12m 40s):
It's not to persuade anyone. It's just to get bite and voters to vote and over a third of them. It's eleven people were Biden supporters six of them said that they'd already mailed in their ballots in five of them. Hadn't no don't wait till the end.

3 (13m 7s):
The

2 (13m 7s):
month because a lot of people are going to be mailing their ballads and the postal service is going to be overwhelmed with the ballads. So make sure you send it at sooner. You don't want to you know, have it delayed and not being counted. Okay, use Black Ink sign the outside of the envelope and mail it back quickly. Okay, Maria says that that one call it made her feel worth her time that day because I think that was one more vote one vote that will be counted and wouldn't have been. Otherwise if I hadn't called him. All right. Have a good night.

2 (13m 49s):
Mark bye so 45 minutes one actual vote for her team for her seat though also for other Biden voters that she nudge towards mailing and their ballots and how do these phone calls compared to door? Knocking Maria says in 2016 in terms of how many people she'd made direct contact with in a shift door knocking and phone banking are about the same but going door-to-door takes way more time between like going and grabbing the list and getting to the place and walking. On and waiting, you know, like someone's mom would open the door and then we had to wait for the person that we were actually trying to reach the come over what happened yesterday took 45 minutes.

2 (14m 32s):
And then what you're taught like a Saturday afternoon in 2016. It sounds like it would take a few hours. Yeah. Yeah, but I do think it's just as good there's been actual research on this which shows that door knocking and phone banking or pretty close in terms of their effectiveness with a slight Edge towards door knocking. So calling people is faster. So the question really is how many phone calls are Democrats making for Biden and Florida compared to doors knocked on in the past. I called around four numbers. The closest I got was from the Independent organization that coordinates a lot of the get out the vote among Democrats and Florida. They're called America votes they say when you count phone Banking and door knocking and everything else that they do to reach voters.

2 (15m 17s):
They've doubled the number of people they've had conversations with in, Florida. It's 2 million this year versus 1 million or fewer in previous elections, but that number doesn't include the Democratic Party Zone get-out-the-vote effort, which is an important part of the picture party officials would not give me Outreach numbers for this year or previous elections, but they did do instead is say that everything is on track all of the Florida Democratic officials. I talked to agreed on that. Here's WL sermon Schultz. She's Margie's congresswoman and she used to chair the National Democratic party, I mean at the moment I can tell you that we lead I mean the proof is in the voting Democrat sleeve Republicans and vote by mail by 360 thousand plus vote-by-mail ballots being turned in that is just massive massive increases.

2 (16m 11s):
We are really lapping the field. And so what I say to nervous Democrats is the proof is in the voting and we have to just keep people voting. It's true that more Democrats than Republicans have mailed in their ballots, but that's kind of what you'd expect covid reactions have fallen along tardy lines and way more Democrats us for mail-in ballots and Republicans. Did of course things could get completely reshuffled on Monday. That's when early in-person voting starts in Florida.

3 (16m 40s):
Republicans could start showing up in droves. I honestly think that there's nothing

2 (16m 50s):
Debbie Wasserman Schultz or other party leaders could say that would reassure Margie or Julie or any of the nervous stomach rats. I talked to Jeff Green who also lives in Broward. He remembers two years ago how confidently they all headed into the governor's race. It was the race That was supposed to show that a Democrat could win Statewide office in

3 (17m 10s):
Florida. So two years ago today Andrew Gilliam was up nine points against Ronda Sanchez in the governor's race. And all the Democrats were Rock gillum's going to win. And of course, he didn't

2 (17m 25s):
living even bigger. Of course is Hillary Clinton every Democrat. I talked to invoke Hillary Clinton. We all remember we all remember what happened in 2016. We were what happened in 2018 remember all of it? And so nobody trusted anymore fact is most big elections in Florida in the last 10 years have been decided by about 1.1 percent of the vote.

3 (17m 51s):
Byron's ahead right now in the polls, but not by much and either candidate could

2 (17m 55s):
win so they're not wrong to be

3 (17m 58s):
worried. Lena bcc's is one of the producers of our show. Coming up Crews of toys that come on without anybody touching them and other worries that have nothing at all to do with electoral politics. I promise that is in a minute. Just go public radio

1 (18m 26s):
when our program continues support for This American Life comes from Capital One your miles go further with the Capital One Venture Card the travel card that lets you earn unlimited double miles for more than just air travel right now earn 100,000 bonus miles. You can actually use Is redeemable for vacation rentals car rentals and more when you spend twenty thousand dollars in your first year what's in your wallet limited time offer terms apply see capitalone.com for details. Support for This American Life comes from Sierra Nevada Brewing Company in 1980 with a few thousand dollars and used dairy equipment Ken Grossman founded Sierra Nevada Brewing Company Ken's award-winning ales propelled him from home Brewer to craft Brewer and today Ken and his family still owned 100% of the company one of the most successful independent craft breweries in America more at Sierra Nevada.com.

1 (19m 27s):
This american guy from Ira Glass today's program the moment after this moment. We have stories today people who are worrying about a future that is on its way. We are now at Act 2 of our program act two words versus fear. So when you're scared about things that might happen the most effective thing to do of course is to jump into action and see that things go your way right to try to make things happen so that the worst does not occur, but the truth is that doesn't always do the job, right? It doesn't always get rid of your fears. So then what do you do? We years ago. We did a story about somebody who came up with this strategy. There were things that this guy was afraid of things that put them on edge and one day he just decided to write them down just to get him out of his system.

1 (20m 10s):
So I started writing numbering every fear one after another quickly it got to 10 fears and then 20 and then 30 and 40 and 50 until we had a hundred thirty eight of them on paper. The man's name is Michael Bernard wagons. He was in his 50s at the time. They did this he's developmentally disabled is living in San Francisco still does and the arts program for adults where he did this place called creativity explored publish. This writing is a little like handwritten Xerox Zine called fears of your life. And then a few years later Michael found out there were more fears to tame by turning them into words and he pulled out a part 2 a sequel titled fears of your life a whole brand new one.

1 (20m 51s):
This one lasted 45 fears Michael give us permission to exit the two books and they're just like this remarkable wide-ranging encyclopedic talmudic memorable tour of human fears and none of them have to do with politics and they seemed worth going back to today as your time right is our reader fear of hospitals and needles fear of school and dentists fear of noises and bumps in the middle of the night. Fear of doors when they slams fear of toys that come on by itself without anyone touching it

3 (21m 27s):
feared being caught with another woman after cheating on your wife. Fear of being in wrong places at the wrong time fear of dropping your soda as it hit the ground and Fizz on you fear of tall giraffe fear of some birds fear being different. I fear that those TV people would take off my favorite cartoon The Rugrats off the air and wouldn't Able to watch them anymore for a long long long time, please.

3 (22m 7s):
Let well enough alone. Please don't take my rug rats cartoon off there because I love their cartoons. Let there be a possibility that life with the Rugrats stays put means leave my rug rats cartoon on TV. Michael says fear if you put things that doesn't belong in your ears and you bust the drums that saying In your ears it liable to run you death when you can't hear anything at

1 (22m 34s):
all. You wouldn't be able to hear cars when they're coming at you that can be a frightening and

3 (22m 40s):
very horrible situation to happen to you. If you

1 (22m 43s):
had An Occurrence in real life, especially if you comes involved in it, can you get hit by cars if you can't hear them? Michael is afraid and frightening and fearful when Andrea share goes away for a very very very long long long long vacation will trips in order to go traveling all over the world almost like different places and different cities and countries to visit people in her own image and own language.

3 (23m 12s):
He afraid and reassure would come back to San Francisco California with all different accents

1 (23m 17s):
and won't be able to speak Michael's English or not be able to understand his words that he's Telling it like Merry Christmas.

3 (23m 26s):
I'm afraid and fearful that pigeons don't know right from wrong to not go out into the street. They don't have the kind of memory as we humans does to know what to do. And what shalt not do they must don't know the danger of their lives are being jeopardized and they must don't know what can definitely happen to them to humans knowledge is incense. They land just anywhere they can find a land on Surface. They are sharp fear Giant-Man fear. Gorilla fear of Godzilla fear of tall woman feared killer whales fear dinosaurs bird fear of Invisible Man fear of blob fear that if I go into the library and I happens to get like seven or eight books and I happens to find a place in the library that I would get a lot of comfortable and begin reading in those seven or eight books, but one book at a time.

3 (24m 26s):
I'm and I start

1 (24m 26s):
to read

3 (24m 28s):
and somehow my voice of mine start to get from low to high and thinking that there weren't any one else has reading there's and I look over in the people in the library and I get fearful and I'll say oops.

1 (24m 39s):
Sorry. If your friends are people that you are with and you hear them making decisions about what they decided that they are going to steal

3 (24m 47s):
expensive and very valuable merchandise out of the department stores and don't care

1 (24m 51s):
less you say I am out of here, bye-bye. I'm not getting caught in your crazy schemes. I'm not you're still a partner. I'm just your

3 (25m 2s):
friend. It's going to trouble and it's on your head. Not

1 (25m 5s):
mine. I'm not going to participate in stealing with you.

3 (25m 8s):
So leave me out of your crazy schemes, especially if it involves.

1 (25m 12s):
Oreo cookies and other stuff Hot Stuff Thea be getting in trouble just as well.

3 (25m 20s):
It's very scary and fearfully to be sleeping in your bed in the middle of the night whenever there's a telephone right beside the bed on your left near the door you once enter and exit out. You are sleeping the telephone rang and scare the living life out of you in the middle of the night. Who is this calling at this hour of the night? We have a blasted music on the radio when you are not aware that the volume is turned up fear rolling down hill backwards fear Foghorn fear of getting hurt by somebody you don't like there's Los Angeles fears fear getting hit over the head when you carry lots of dough with

1 (26m 5s):
you or bucks. Fear is like this someone like a woman that you grab a hold of her hand and going down the escalator one of us sudden you happens to be holding a stranger hand not

3 (26m 18s):
realizing that she isn't your

1 (26m 19s):
mother is scary feared that if you put too much of toilet paper in the toilet bowl of

3 (26m 25s):
will run over and get all over the

1 (26m 27s):
floor and on you and on someone else to it would leak from upstairs to the next floor below. I am afraid someday I liable to get lost inside Children's Hospital. If I'm not also familiar with that place yet.

3 (26m 41s):
It's going to take some time to get used to

1 (26m 43s):
it fearfully of that. Great big humongous children's hospital. They ever would be to Michael's knowledge good that Michael sister is driving him up there on Tuesday, January 15 2002, even though she's with him. She can easily get lost too bad situation to tangled up there, especially if you that person An appointment at 10:45 a.m. In the morning Michael Bernard Loggins does

3 (27m 14s):
Michael fear that if his teacher Francis doesn't put away Michaels top ramen

1 (27m 18s):
noodles up in the desk drawer that Douglas will see it and he'll liable to want to take it and he'll happen to

3 (27m 25s):
eat up Michael Bernard Loggins is noodles himself and Michael Bernard Loggins would be out of luck, but he would have to go home tonight

1 (27m 32s):
and bring back to school another. Pack of noodles to eat himself. So that wouldn't ever ever

3 (27m 38s):
happened with that Douglas eat of noodle

1 (27m 40s):
story.

3 (27m 48s):
It would be very fearful. If I reached up on top shelf trying to reach for a nice sticker covered dictionary book and not ask for help from someone and the books come off the shelf and make lots of noises and the people gets angry at me and don't understand that I had want help but I were afraid to ask for it and Be a jerk or creep as hope tells me and people say that I'll have to pay for the shelf and I did in lots of trouble

1 (28m 11s):
behind. It says Michael.

3 (28m 14s):
Fear of being with a friend that you have recently met start to take you places with him and you doesn't know him all that. Well,

1 (28m 21s):
you didn't know that he was going to bring you fear and lots of trouble your way

3 (28m 25s):
someone you doesn't know all that well starts to carry you in

1 (28m 28s):
this store to buy you and him something to eat and

3 (28m 30s):
drink and all of a sudden

1 (28m 32s):
something very fishy starts to happen.

3 (28m 36s):
Like for instance your friend that you are with could be up to trouble and whoever with him could be heading in for trouble as well. Especially if a

1 (28m 43s):
friend of It could be bringing you trouble by stealing a big package of Oreo cookie. People are fearful of me, which I wonder is they think I'm all that terrible or I'm thinking that they think I'm not human at all because when they sit next to me, then they get back up and move away from me. I may be a stranger but that doesn't make me a created monster or something like that. People aren't humans. They act like ignorance dogs with their tail and back of their legs or in between their middle bodies their legs.

3 (29m 19s):
They don't think who's feeling they heard at

1 (29m 21s):
all. They just do it

3 (29m 24s):
no consideration for whatsoever. People don't think about how they hurt my feelings or don't give a who they don't give a crap. Feared you never know when you're going to lose. Your mother is very sad and scary experience. You have to face and learn from and you wonder why she has to die. I love her and I had loved her once while she were alive, especially if she was the mother that raised you and the others through birth. And you only wish that you could have done all you can to help save her life. He going to be a worst times in hard times for Michael Bernard logins and his sisters and brothers

1 (30m 8s):
to

3 (30m 10s):
especially when Mother's Day

2 (30m 11s):
comes

3 (30m 15s):
afraid. This is the last thing that ever

1 (30m 17s):
occurred to me. Exits in my copen argon's to Xerox to ziens fears of your life Parts 1 and 2 red Forest by actor Tom right to get your own copy of these amazing books or find out more about the arts program where they were made. You can visit the website of

3 (30m 34s):
creativity explored that's creativity explored dot-org. Back 3 the best laid plans. So today's program is about people worrying about the

1 (31m 7s):
future and we have for a change of pace we would do this next story about people who are not worried enough about it. This is another story from our archive. It is a particular favourite. It is about this couple and the future they kind of cheerfully Themselves towards NSA everything that happens to him. It's like a hand grenade. They bring into their own home pull the pin and then wait to see what is next and one important thing about all of this is that when they did this the kind of couple they were was a really great couple we were always like the most solid of all the relationships of our friends and everything like that cook brown over met his girlfriend on the third day of college and in all of the ways that we think of what makes her a good relationship.

1 (31m 47s):
I think that they were doing better than you or me, or Most people they had a lot of fun together they could talk about anything. They didn't really fight happy sex life. We really just got along very well together. We traveled well together, you know, we were always the kind of we were the place of friends would come when they are having hard times and they would stay with us and we were kind of it felt like very adult when even when I was 23, I felt like I'm kind of married even though neither of us had ever ever discuss getting married. So what happened Well after we had both turn 30 one day, I just kind of was thinking about why we had never talked about getting married. Like we had never ever talked about it seriously or otherwise and whenever anyone would ask us we would always just kind of kind of brush it off and say oh well, we're gonna what we'll get married when we have kids.

1 (32m 37s):
That's what we'd always say, and I remember we were sitting in the living room. It was October and I just said hey I want to talk. And I said why you know, why do you think we haven't gotten married yet or even talked about it and she just kind of like looked at me and and thought for a second and then she said well, I think that before we get married we should probably sleep with other people. And and that you would imagine that that would come like as a huge like shock to me like Hit me hard. But for some reason it kind of it made sense to me I kind of was like, okay very calmly and I guess the reason it had did that make sense.

1 (33m 24s):
I've thought a lot about this and I think that there's a few reasons we both had this kind of arrogant notion of our relationship that it could survive literally anything that we had been to get. We had known each other our whole adult lives. We were we were each other's world. So really we I don't think we thought that we could destroy this thing. I talked to the girlfriend who did not want to come on the radio and she said basically if she'd only had two boyfriends in her life. High School boyfriend who was not a good boyfriend at all and Kurt it was great.

1 (34m 5s):
But she met her she said when she was 17, she was 30 when this happened and

3 (34m 10s):
she said that she felt like maybe she missed

1 (34m 11s):
out on something in her 20s experiences that other people had and she did want to regret that

3 (34m 17s):
I wanting of I should say before we go any further in this story. We're gonna

1 (34m 21s):
acknowledge the existence of sex between adults nothing explicit anyway, so they sat on the couch and they talked this through the next part of that conversation was Was the logistics do we break up? Do I move out do we just do this while we're living in the same house together and we kind of came up with this idea of borrowing this this this Amish concept called Rumspringa and Rumspringa in the Amish world is when you know when you're 16, you're allowed to be not Amish for two years and then when you turn 18 you decide whether or not you come back to the fold, right?

3 (35m 1s):
And during this two years kids

1 (35m 2s):
get drunk they sleep around. They try drugs. They do lots and they do lots of stuff. So we are going to have a we decided to have a rum spring from our relationship. And that's the other crazy thing is that we decided that it would 30 days was enough because probably within 30 days sleeping with other people get that all out of our system in 30 days turns out it's really difficult to all of a sudden become single at 31 when you've never been single for your entire life. Life because all of a sudden I'm in New York City and I'm single and I'm essentially have the the the emotional tools of a 17 year old boy because the last time you dated was you were 17.

1 (35m 45s):
The last time I dated I was in a dorm room. Yeah, also, it wasn't that I was just it wasn't like I was single in New York City because being single in New York City is I think the majority of it is being just very lonely and being on your own whereas This was very different. I was in a marathon was in a

3 (36m 3s):
race. I was in a I was in 30-day race to sleep with as many people as I possibly could because after 30 days I was going to go back and then get married. So so there's a Time Clock ticking every single it was almost to the minute where I just be like if I wasn't out somewhere trying to meet someone I was like, this is wasted time. I am wasting my time right now. And also because the fact that we're both my girlfriend and I were both very competitive with each other that we

1 (36m 40s):
didn't speak during that 30

3 (36m 41s):
days, but I think in both of our minds we had a competitive nature of being like I need to sleep with more people than she does and I think she felt the same way. That's true. She did feel that way. I asked her.

1 (36m 56s):
So before they started the room Springer they took a last romantic trip together to New Orleans. New Year's and they had a great time and then on January 3rd after they both cried a bit Curt moved out for a month. So, you know Suddenly Single 31 time clock ticking. Where do you start? Right? Well Kurt called this woman that he knew just a little bit and had a date on the very first or second night. He can't remember which it

3 (37m 21s):
was and at dinner. He told her the entire

1 (37m 24s):
situation. Anyway, the whole thing out that he was seeing somebody that would take in this break to sleep around and this was ruled that he made for himself that he was always going to be honest with any woman that he met during this month. We're gonna be honest upfront that and that's the weird thing. That's the thing that I still kind of when I think back on this time that I don't understand like I don't understand how these women that I met during that time

3 (37m 47s):
heard this story and were

1 (37m 48s):
like, okay, let's continue with this date would they say

3 (37m 52s):
I think most of them the the the overwhelming response

1 (37m 56s):
was like

3 (37m 58s):
Wow, and I can't believe you're telling Me this curvy staying on a futon on a friend's living room for for the

1 (38m 5s):
month in this apartment where there's no door between the living room and the bedroom where his friend was sleeping and he brought this woman back on the first date and they made out a little bit and then they said another date. I think it was probably for the next night or the night after something like that and what happens When I mean what happens on the day, I'm I guess I mean do you sleep with her since the whole point of this story is you're trying to

3 (38m 33s):
sleep in them? Yes. Yeah and said they felt very like

1 (38m 35s):
modest but asking but

3 (38m 36s):
yeah, did you say yes

1 (38m 39s):
rather than sleeping together? Yeah. Yeah. It was amazing. It was yeah totally turned my head around

3 (38m 46s):
it really did feel like having experiences like I would imagine I would have had as a teenager, you know. We're sex was this very powerful thing and it kind of overwhelmed you day to after that picks up a woman at a bar something. He had never done before in his life and he goes home with her and from there he's off and

1 (39m 13s):
running. But remember he has the emotional tools of a seventeen-year-old. I was emotionally getting involved with these women and that was that was against one of our rules that we had come up my girl. Friend and I had had a rule saying no relationships. We don't get into relationships with people. We're just going to go out and sleep with people to see what it's like. Oh I see and then and then and then but you didn't actually know how to just go out and sleep with somebody without getting emotionally involved.

3 (39m 39s):
I'm not at all. I mean the first the first date I went on I immediately was like head over heels for her and I knew her for six hours. And I didn't know how to date. I didn't know how to date casually. So what I really was doing was just getting

1 (40m 1s):
involved. I was acting like a person who had been in a 13-year relationship with these women that I had just

3 (40m 7s):
met like how does at me? What do you mean immediately holding hands. I remember that

1 (40m 15s):
I would my impulse

3 (40m 16s):
would be to say I love you during sex. That would be my impulse because that's the only way I was used to having sex.

1 (40m 26s):
And I remember the first time

3 (40m 28s):
that I did end up having sex. I started to say I love you and then just kind of swallowed it and made it seem like I was coughing and that was it and that didn't happen just once Curtis was just a month of incredibly intense feelings. He didn't feel this crazy Elation or he

1 (40m 50s):
would find himself walking down the street weeping. The girlfriend told me that she meanwhile was having escapades of her own. She'd be out all night drinking and dancing going to exclusive clubs with Mexican high rollers doing crazy things with European tourists. It was just what she wanted actually and both of them told me that the weirdest thing about that time was that the person that they wanted to talk to most about What was going on and share it with was each other. But if we still weren't speaking Curt says that one of the most amazing things to him that was kind of a revelation during that time or something. I've never actually heard anybody talk about it a lot. But I totally related to this was how quickly he would find himself in the home of a complete stranger.

1 (41m 32s):
Yeah and never gotten to see other people's Apartments I much

3 (41m 37s):
that's what I kind of was fascinated by getting to

1 (41m 39s):
see all these different people's apartments and seeing how everyone lives and I love that. I love that part of it so much. You know, I was like I was like look at this like I'm seeing this is all your stuff. This is the stuff you keep on your bed bedside table and also having like really weird experience that never had before like of like women picking me up and never experienced that before I was so confused because it was a it was a bartender. She was like a bartender so she just kept giving me drinks free drinks. I was like, why is this part is? Why is she giving me all these free drinks?

3 (42m 14s):
But it is fascinating to see if you stay at the barn before in the morning then all of a sudden I never been aware of it before but then I'm selling looking around me. Like, oh all these people are like pairing off. Look at how this happens. Like I've never been I've been at bars into four in the morning, but I was always it's almost like uncovering this whole level of single life in New York City that I had that I was just had not been aware of before anyone in New York City. I feel I can have sex any night of the week if they just follow two rules, which is stay at the bar until 4:00 in the Morning, and dramatically lower your standards after month curtains girlfriend get together and talk and they agree that a month was not enough for this.

3 (43m 0s):
It was it was just obvious. The experiment hadn't run. Its course, they both wanted more time. So they decided on a second month which then becomes third month and for Kurt as time went on it got harder and harder

1 (43m 13s):
to Stick with the rule that they had made of not getting into any relationships uses muddling about how to figure out how to do that in his head. He would think like when is something actually a relationship and I think in my head, I was like three dates three dates makes relationship. That's what I defined. And so then I would try to not see people more than three times that was increasingly difficult. It's difficult because he was giving women to opposite messages at the same time. I'm he would tell them that he was just taking a month's break from his real relationship and this isn't serious. But then he didn't hold back any of his feelings.

1 (43m 53s):
What I felt like kept happening was that I would act like I wanted to be there boyfriend and then after three dates would just abruptly end it with no explanation whatsoever and definitely definitely people would Yell at me and call me names. And and and I feel to this day. I feel I feel horrible about that because I was just I was acting like a crazy person. I was acting like a person

3 (44m 30s):
with absolutely no boundaries. So it was hard to stop himself what was going on and when we talked about it Kurt's best explanation for that was why once had it when I had a dog I was when I was a kid, I had a dog and one day the

1 (44m 47s):
cat now. Five pound bag of sugar

3 (44m 49s):
off onto the floor and my dog was about 9 pounds. He's a toy poodle and he ate all five pounds of sugar and Hyundai and and then he was sick for like three days afterwards, but I always think about that that day for him how amazing that day must have been like eating all that sugar and eating it and then kind of like going away from it for a little while and being like I can't stop when it's just gonna happen again, and then he just started vomiting and vomited three straight. Days, and that's how I felt. You know, like I knew this was bad, but I was like, when is this ever gonna happen again escorts girlfriend did all this happen to her during Rumspringa to it was hard just to have

1 (45m 35s):
sex without emotion entering into

3 (45m 37s):
it at all. And she said absolutely not quote. You mean dude that every two bars of parties, whatever those people she said. I didn't tell

1 (45m 47s):
anyone anything. Thing but my background or the situation

3 (45m 51s):
and I asked her weight so you wouldn't explain I'm gonna break from a relationship. She said no because it sounds crazy. I told her that a Kurt would reveal all of that. Which Gino and she said, yeah Kurt's way to open but quote that openness probably just made him more appealing to the ladies.

1 (46m 15s):
By the end of three months Kurt started to fall for this woman that he met in Australia and this time really actually fall for her in a real way and this made him of course feel differently about his relationship with his girlfriend. So if we back to the States stated their old apartment and because this is the most comfortable relationship that has ever existed between two people. Of course, they dealt with it. All right away, very straightforward and we woke up in the morning and we went and got brunch and we brought it to the park the way we always used to do on Saturdays. We just sat in the park and Talked and we broke up. And that's the thing. I can't I can't point to. something that was bad about our relationship except for knowing that I feel like it had run its course.

1 (47m 6s):
We organically got to the point where we both thought this was a good idea this the room Springer. It's almost like we

3 (47m 16s):
the the relationship had an expiration date, but we didn't know about it. And then also we came up with this really complicated crazy plan to put the test down it at

1 (47m 26s):
the right place where it would break and it

3 (47m 29s):
broke. It's a girlfriend since having similar said you'd

1 (47m 35s):
probably wanted out of the relationship before the room spring up

3 (47m 38s):
as uses too scared to admit it to herself. The Rumspringa gave them a way to break up

1 (47m 44s):
Curt says he would not want to do a room Springer

3 (47m 46s):
again, but he came out of this experience

1 (47m 48s):
believing that it is important to force things to a decision with someone and that is healthy for any relationship to be evaluated now and then I do have a theory now. I do have a theory about if I do get married in the future. What I think I would want to do is have an agreement that at the end of seven years. We have to get remarried in order for the marriage to continue. But at the end of seven years it ends and we can agree to get remarried or not get remarried. Why because then I get I think you get to choose and I think it makes the relationship. Would make the relationship stronger. I don't know what I think of that because they think actually one of the things that's a comfort in marriage is that there isn't a door it's seven years.

1 (48m 35s):
And so if something is messed up in the short term, there's a comfort of knowing like what we made this commitment. And so we're just going to work this out and like in even if tonight we're not getting along or there's something between us doesn't feel right. You have the comfort of knowing like we've got time we're going to figure this out and that makes it so much easier because you do go through like times and you hate each other's

3 (48m 56s):
guts. And of course you

1 (48m 58s):
do. Yeah, and and the No Escape cause weirdly is a bigger Comfort to being married than I ever would have thought before I got married. Really? Yeah. I never thought of it that way. Yeah, I like the I like thinking about it. That

3 (49m 14s):
way you just see so many examples of

1 (49m 17s):
when of where that of people where people don't think that way.

3 (49m 29s):
The curtain is girlfriend feel like the room Springer got them where they needed to go as a

1 (49m 32s):
couple even if that place was different than the intended when they began the whole thing.

3 (49m 38s):
Sometimes what you need to do. Next is a couple you can't even tell what it should be. The best you can do is hold your breath make a guess and jump But these days Kurt braunohler is the host of a podcast called bananas and he virtually host the long-running variety show with Kristen Schaal hot tub with curtain Christian Mondays on

1 (50m 9s):
Twitch. So that story is a few years old and I could probably say a lot about the things that Kurt and I talked about at the end, but I will leave it at this these days Curtis married, and I'm

3 (50m 23s):
not that boy POTUS

2 (50m 34s):
operandi Okay, I'll say it.

1 (50m 38s):
I believe the children are our future and I believe that worries for our children and our future are probably the most common worries out there Humanities number one worry category top of the charts. Our survey says can't be Beat Generation after generation, but there's a whole other class of thoughts about her kids Futures are less. I don't know they're not worry exactly. They're more just like curiosity. Ten years ago one of our producers back then Jonathan menjivar talked about both those feelings the Curiosity and the worry on our show. POTUS will have dark wavy hair her eyes will be brown unless they're green or maybe Hazel. She will have full lips.

1 (51m 19s):
She will not be tall which is a nice way of saying that she might be short because of this fact POTUS will not like going to concerts because like my wife Hilary show only be able to see the backs of other people's heads and that spot on a person's back between

3 (51m 32s):
In their shoulder

1 (51m 33s):
blades someday when she touches that

3 (51m 35s):
spot on a person she loves it will feel oddly familiar and comforting because all her life while standing in line at the swings or waiting for a cashier to bring up her milk. She will have looked at that spot on other people because she will be our daughter POTUS will like chocolate ice cream and enjoy puns. She will need glasses by third grade. POTUS I should explain is what Hilary and I have taken to calling the little girl Hillary will give

1 (52m 3s):
birth to in 2010

3 (52m 5s):
calling our kid it only felt right for about a week

1 (52m 8s):
or two. So we brainstorm baby

3 (52m 10s):
codenames one night in bed.

1 (52m 12s):
Hillary thought the name should be something like that opening scene in The West Wing pilot. The one where Rob Lowe walks out of the shower and a woman in underwear in a men's dress shirt read from his pager POTUS in a bicycle accident. Hillary said our code name should pop like that but we couldn't think of anything as cool as POTUS. So we just stole it. I worried that while POTUS was still nothing more than cell splitting into other cells that we might be setting unachievable Expectations by naming her the acronym the Secret Service used to refer to the president of the United States when people find out you're having a baby they predict

3 (52m 45s):
all kinds of things about the child you'll have but I wanted to let POTUS tell us who she was so I tried to clean mostly to the facts. 20 weeks into Hillary's pregnancy. We went in for an ultrasound or ultrasound technician look like Kate from Jon & Kate Plus

1 (53m 4s):
8 in Scrubs.

3 (53m 6s):
She had that crazy hairdo and everything. We asked if she could tell the gender of the baby.

1 (53m 10s):
She said it's a girl.

3 (53m 12s):
She said it with the same level of enthusiasm. I used to tell Hillary that we got a gas

1 (53m 16s):
bill in the mail

3 (53m 18s):
knowing that POTUS was a girl meant that now there was a shape to the mystery the ultrasound gave us The lines of a coloring book and we couldn't help but feel them in

1 (53m 27s):
Hillary remembered all the stuff about dominant and recessive genes that I slept through in my high school biology class and we thought about our friend Michelle the biologist who spends her days working with fruit fly jeans. I

3 (53m 38s):
don't really understand what it is. She does

1 (53m 40s):
exactly except that. It has something to do with diabetes

3 (53m 44s):
and the summer when I was having a fruit fly infestation, she didn't have any suggestions

1 (53m 48s):
for how I could capture or kill them. I thought maybe Michelle could help us figure out what POTUS my It look like she said she'd do her best, but that this stuff was more

3 (53m 57s):
complicated in humans. And what I was

1 (53m 58s):
imagining, she also told me that there was a great paper published in science recently about the genetics of dog coats and that if we were beating a dog instead of a little girl, she could be really

3 (54m 8s):
helpful. So Michelle came over to our house and in exchange for lasagna and a beer she sat with me and Drew Punnett squares those little squares divided into four smaller squares that are supposed to help you figure out what traits went over others. Michelle was willing to commit to a few things like the fact that POTUS will likely have dark hair. But really she said even if she was able to study me and Hillary in a lab, she couldn't tell us with any certainty what our baby will look like because unlike dogs humans. Haven't been bred for For certain traits. So there's really no way of knowing what green eyes may be hiding in my jeans.

3 (54m 50s):
Mostly. She said the whole dominant-recessive thing could help us figure out Dopey stuff, like for instance. Now, we know that POTUS will have unattached ear lobes and be able to impress her friends with her ability to roll her tongue like a taco A few months ago not long after we found out that POTUS was a

1 (55m 10s):
girl. I was riding my bike home from work. The traffic was heavy. So I was going pretty slow. I

3 (55m 16s):
look to my right and noticed a girl on the

1 (55m 18s):
sidewalk looking at me staring really she looked like she was in her early 20s, and she had her auburn hair tied in a thick braid that swung over her right shoulder. I can't remember if she was wearing glasses, but I know she was wearing a dress and holding a petition clipboard in her right hand if skin was made of Play-Doh hers is what you would get if you forever mix the Hillary color with the Jonathan one, I couldn't tell you if it was that or the way she looked at me intently that's to blame but I stared back and for a split second. I thought she might be POTUS all grown up.

3 (55m 51s):
I wanted to ask her so much. How was school he live around here. What do you like more? Seen fireflies for the first time in the Summer where the first fat snowflakes winter. Really though, every question was some variation on the one big question. I'll try my whole life to make POTUS answer. Yes to

1 (56m 10s):
are you happy?

3 (56m 12s):
It's also I realize a question. I can't predict the answer

2 (56m 15s):
to

3 (56m 23s):
can't come in. Here are these days is making shows that pineapple Street Studios starter Sasha is now 10 years old in fifth grade really into playing the

1 (56m 31s):
drums and running for School treasurer.

3 (57m 1s):
Doesn't reduce today by being marooned me and me people put together today's show including a baker than a chip has to be the cornfields are jail kind of crazy. Walt's airplanes in the CC. Still Nelson Captain Raymond. There was a shift Chris trosset. How am I? You need to be wearing Diane will managing editors Sarah abdulrahman our senior editors David kestenbaum. Our executive editor is manual Berry special. Thanks today the sahil Moreau trust that today nearly Smith Casey. Morale Steve shell our website This American Life dot-org. We even listen to our Archive of over 700 episodes for absolutely free. Also, there's videos and all kinds of other stuff there This American Life dot-org This American Life is to go to the public radio stations by PRX the public radio Exchange.

3 (57m 42s):
Sports with This American Life comes from Sierra Nevada Brewing Company family-owned operated and argued over since 1980 proud supporter of independent thought with her that's online over the are going to can or bottle more at Sierra Nevada bad calm. Like there's always we're programs co-founder. Mr. Tory Mell attea his new enemy February tell you himself very Shifty month supposed to be 28 days long. You never know. What's going to stick around an extra day and refuse the Transfer of power and to March

2 (58m 14s):
we all remember we all remember what happened in 2016. We remember all of it. And so nobody trusted

3 (58m 20s):
anymore. I'm Ira Glass back next week for more stories This American Life.

1 (58m 50s):
Mexican the podcast of This American Life people suspended in a kind of purgatory

3 (58m 55s):
and a tiny space like for instance the people squeezed into the orchestra pit of the longest running show on Broadway doing the exact same thing night after night after night. How do you not get on each other's nerves. I was complaining about something which I imagined was that it was really cold and then someone else from the orchestra said just so tired of the sound of your voice that's different than the podcast when your local public radio station.