3 (1s):
Support for This American Life comes from Netflix's the trial of the Chicago 7 Aaron sorkin's latest film about one of the most bizarre and momentous trials in American history now go behind the scenes of the film with the official Companion podcast from Netflix released every Friday and available, wherever you listen to podcasts the trial of the Chicago 7 now on Netflix. A quick warning. There are curse words that are unbeaten today's episode of the show. If you prefer a beeped version, you can find that at our website This American Life dot-org. Facing it happens in the first episode of the TV show Watchmen, which I found myself last month behind a woman is driving with her son on a sunny day and suddenly the sky darkens and Squids drop from the sky like a hailstorm or something, but the little you know squids each one out on going to be a finger.

3 (56s):
Cars on the road pull over and wait squids land on them and on the ground making the Soggy waiter of squid on the road. And then soon enough again like a

1 (1m 7s):
hailstorm. It starts

3 (1m 9s):
son comes back up. Everybody starts a car again heads to wherever the heading just like the most normal thing in the world. No big deal. Just another squid drop. And when I saw that I felt like

1 (1m 22s):
that is

3 (1m 22s):
exactly how things happen. Like that's how things feel. That's what Everything feels like right now inconceivable stuff goes down all the time these days and it's like you can get used to anything. You know what? I mean every few days more Americans died from covid than died in 9/11 wildfires are raging and continue to just rage. The president won't disavow white supremacist in the televised debate. Like I'm used to all that like intense daily life. You know, what is this example of you can get used to anything Jay was having a normal stressful day for 2020 meaning it does his job from his apartment on a computer at his kitchen table and zoom but he's also, you know got to deal with Children during the workday.

3 (2m 8s):
So couple weeks ago. He's a college professor and he's preparing a lecture for a class and he's anxious about that and he wanted to be good and then at three o'clock he has to go run get his kids and bring them home and he and his kids get back to their boating at 3:20 and he's trying to move quickly because his class starts at 3:30 and Hannah's do kids get on the elevator to head up to her apartment

1 (2m 28s):
and then all of a sudden I feel the elevator start to drop it's like a, you know half second feeling like when you're in a roller coaster. And and thankfully it stops how hard you guys drop? I don't know just probably a couple stories.

3 (2m 43s):
You dropped a few stories.

1 (2m 44s):
Yeah, and I look and it stuck at the third floor

3 (2m 47s):
to push a button to call for help and they're told somebody's going to be there to fix things but it's going to take a little while and they wait

1 (2m 55s):
and my kids are starting to bicker with one another and my daughter starts

3 (2m 59s):
getting upset. She's 8 years old and part of what's Happening. Jay says that her big brother who is 10 years old has actually been stuck in an elevator. Once before when he was little so he's being home. What's the big deal?

1 (3m 11s):
He was not rattle at all. In fact, she starts to get upset. He starts to tell her that she's overreacting and that makes her more upset. And so I'd be like calm her down and and tell him to stop teasing her and then we took a couple selfies and we you know, I tried to like make it like a fun thing. We're all going to remember look back on and laugh on and so that kind of changed the mood in the elevator a little bit least briefly.

3 (3m 35s):
Two kids momentarily. Okay. Jay gets back to the other urgent matter that's on his mind his class to over 300 students this big intro psychology class, which still has not started. There's still just enough time from to quickly tap out a message on his phone dear class. I'm currently trapped in an elevator in my apartment building. So join the zoom call and start teaching once I'm safely out of here. Push send message goes out and then nothing right? They just stay put

1 (4m 3s):
and J start to worry about his

3 (4m 6s):
They're waiting for him on the zoomcar 10 minutes pass 20 and half an hour in he decides he's going to try to teach the class on his phone from the elevator which takes a little like technical wrangling. He has to download Zoom to his phone with Billy one bar of service baba baba. Okay. This part is boring, but after a while, okay, no video voice only he's in

1 (4m 27s):
like join the zoom class and I'm trying to talk to them and I can hear their voices and the students are all chit-chatting with themself. And I can hear them kind of speculating about what might be happening to me and they're laughing and I'm trying to get their attention and they're all talking and they couldn't hear me. And so I'm shouting at this point, it's me. It's j I'm here. Hi guys.

3 (4m 53s):
So in the elevator what's happening is you're a grown man shouting into his phone. Is that right?

1 (4m 58s):
Yeah, and eventually I can hear someone say hey wait, I think I hear our professor. I think he's back.

3 (5m 5s):
Yes, like a moment of panic like what am I going to say? And then he launches in but no. No, it's none of his slides. It gives the lecture that he'd planned

1 (5m 14s):
and I can't see them and they can't see me but it was working. It was it was all kind of coming back to me and I was able to deliver it and I had their attention so starts to seem normal. Yeah starts to seem normal. Yeah, eventually I'd adapted my kids are being quiet. They're listening. Can I ask you do you remember how

3 (5m 34s):
long it took? Look, like how many minutes did it take before this started to seem normal?

1 (5m 41s):
I would say about for five minutes for five minutes. We are very adaptable

3 (5m 46s):
creatures. Soon enough the elevator jolts and starts to move again. Jay gets back to his apartment sit down at the kitchen table while exhume and teaches a couple hundred kids from his kitchen which of course is also totally weird, but after months of doing that it feels totally normal. Hey, did you consider not doing the class? Did you consider canceling?

1 (6m 5s):
It's funny because at that night, I when I told my partner about this, she's like why don't you just cancel she's a professor but it's one of those things where it didn't cross my mind when I was in the situation my my And early on that day had been focused on like being able to navigate this complex situation that's going to be stressful, you know, getting my kids and getting home and then getting the lecture ready which had been prepping all day. And so that had determined each little step I made and I never really stopped to think that I just shouldn't do

3 (6m 34s):
it. That's how I miss right. Now. I live this year are so strange and we just do the next task and the next one after that and the next one after that and we do not think about how weird things have gotten

1 (6m 46s):
each little step not truly lat. Ed to the next step and then it wasn't until I left the situation hours later. I was like looking at it and realizing how absurd it was

3 (6m 56s):
WBZ Chicago. It's This American Life. I'm Ira Glass today on our program people trapped in small spaces stuck in a situation and coping because they have no choice Jay. I think it's pretty clear was not too bothered by his short time in the elevator, but in our other stories today, it is people who are stuck in a small space for way longer in the first half of our program. We have a story where things get pretty. Dyer then the second half it's not nearly so difficult. It's musicians who are confined to a tiny space for years and uncomfortably tiny space and guys a pretty weird there to stay with us

1 (7m 40s):
that wine

3 (7m 41s):
the people up the stairs. So start today with a couple who've been penned into a small space for months now hiding it. Static because their lives are on the line surrounded by musty furniture and stacks of old paintings that are collecting dust Kevin see if talk to them about the truly jaw-dropping story of how they got there. The attic has creaky wood floors in one small window, but they try not to go close to it. They don't want to be seen the ceilings are low noise. Ask who's six one has to crouch but Jessica's fine. They spend their time obsessing over not being heard. They try not to talk above a whisper or walk on the creaking floorboards. Even sleeping a stressful

1 (8m 21s):
one. Another me Mo moisture drunk when we sleep moister snores, it scares me and sometimes I wake him up in the night when I hear that. He's snoring. I say more says try not to snore but I don't think it's something that is under his control but it still bothers me because it's something that I don't think you should do

3 (8m 43s):
then you ask is that you have to worry about ever. Nice that you guys

1 (8m 45s):
made. Yeah, we have to be like ghosts in this house some fast money

3 (8m 52s):
how much SASS and Jessica ended up in this attic it goes back to how they met. It was 2016 on an anti-government WhatsApp group. They were both activists against the regime of Daniel Ortega who has ruled Nicaragua on and off for 40 years, then they started seeing each other at protests and meetings. Jessica. Saw the nerdy guy unafraid to go on National Television wearing a mask with the president's face. It and it acts over the mouth demanding freedom of expression Moises. Saw the woman with the big brown eyes often last person to back down when the police showed up that one protest when 200 police closed in on a group of maybe 20 protesters Moises look for a place to run but then he saw Jessica and another woman walk right up to the armed officers and start yelling in their faces.

1 (9m 39s):
So I kind of got Brave. Oh, so I went to the front line is then with them to let stroller. Doing the same thing.

3 (9m 47s):
It's kind of like a crazy moment to start a relationship with someone like you're in the middle of basically like a firing line with this girl that you just started dating.

1 (9m 56s):
Yeah what I got is it you're going to kill me. I'm gonna die happy right now, at least

3 (10m 3s):
they got married and we saw Sedaka Jessica's daughter Camila. He got a job at a Sprint call center talking to people from the states all day Jessica worked for a company that made solar panels. But still their relationship was built around their activism one parent picked up Camilla at school while the other organized a rally or held a press conference at home near the little girls pile of toys. They kept masks for tear gas. But the government's response got harsher the regime began kidnapping its opponents Moises was grabbed by four or five men in unmarked cars and taken to El Cheapo ta an Infamous prison documented by human rights groups as being a state-run torture site a warning this next bit includes descriptions of violence.

1 (10m 47s):
There were hitting me in the head and the stomach and the legs and they said we're gonna kill you motherfucker. You never going to get out now we got you now. We got you. Just treat me naked. This is Things that they did to me that I would like I would my wife didn't even know that they to me because I don't feel like I want to tell her they do all the horrible things over the put a electric shocks to your body. They put a I don't know if you know what what police sztyc they used to beat you up. They introduce that into your inner cavity. So make sure they make you talk.

3 (11m 26s):
He was held for two days. Not long after they released him. Jessica went to a protest that was broken up by police officers kicked her in the stomach and hit her with the butt of a gun. She was three weeks pregnant. She lost the baby. Late last year, they realized they couldn't stay anymore. They needed to escape and their plan was to go to the US and they had a good reason to think they would be welcomed their Jessica and Moises is brand of activism. It was championed by Republicans including the Trump Administration for its Defiance of a left-wing autocrat. They were called Freedom Fighters. We stand with you Republican senator said in statements and Tweets in 2018.

3 (12m 6s):
Ted Cruz gave a whole speech about u.s. Support for Nicaraguan activists. them to the people of Nicaragua the American people stand with you and your fight for freedom and for the rule of

1 (12m 19s):
law to the half million protesters who risked your lives

3 (12m 26s):
I say, thank you. Thank you for your

1 (12m 27s):
courage and remember truth has power

3 (12m 32s):
that's support it's part of what made their Asylum case seem winnable because it fell into the category of political persecution. It was one sliver of the Asylum system left intact after years of pulling in all sorts of ways getting asylum in the US has become almost impossible Asylum Seekers are being turned away at the border told nope or closed cases are incredibly hard to win even when they do get to the courts, but the Trump Administration did leave at least one window cracked one of the few categories of Asylum Seekers that are purported to kept people who were threatened tortured jailed for their politics, especially when their politics overlap with us interests people like Moises and Jessica.

3 (13m 28s):
Moises and Jessica were a perfect Asylum case for another reason their persecution was documented and it was public as activists. They had become famous. There are protests had been televised they'd held nationally broadcast, press conferences people recognize them in the streets all the time. Even the state department had tweeted about specific confrontations. They'd had with the paramilitary. At any other time in recent US History, they would likely have been admitted but instead they're in hiding. I wanted to understand why I've been covering immigration for the last few years and this to me felt like the last chapter and the disintegration of asylum.

3 (14m 8s):
So I called my sass and Jessica in the attic to hear about their Journey from start to finish to learn what happened in late 2019. They started to get ready Mois?s study the US Government website for the Asylum requirements. You read about the importance of supporting your case with evidence. So he bought a black backpack and he filled it with all the evidence. You can gather videos of their protest and press conferences reports from the Human Rights Commission, and the Department statements from the White House and the Republican Senators who assess also wrote a five-page declaration a long essay enumerating every threat every beating he'd received from the government.

3 (14m 51s):
He included the names of his torturers. He'd read online that the details could help his family's Asylum case. So he was as specific as possible. The backpack took on a kind of sacred role for them. It was their proof that they were deserving of the sliver of Asylum that remained available in the US then Mois?s and Jessica talk to Camilla their eight-year-old daughter. Camila is outgoing loves Legos and Tick Tock videos. They sat her down and Moises described all the dangers. They would face on their journey across the border Camilla told them she was ready to go. At three o'clock one morning, they left their house outside of Managua and headed to Thousand Miles North by early July.

3 (15m 32s):
They were moving through the desert of northern Mexico. It was scorching and covid cases were spiking more sesa games everything out here at some of his Asylum evidence and plastic case. It got wet and he picked where they would cross the border Texas

1 (15m 47s):
since we heard so many things about the the Texas Senator Ted A cruise which is a guy that always talk about the Nicaraguan regime and everything. We thought oh my God, we're good place because we are Texas, which he is from

3 (16m 4s):
during tough moments on the journey to the Border Moises and Jessica tried to convince Camilla that the whole trip was a game. It'll get more fun. They said soon will be in Disney World. You'll eat a McDonald's hamburger Camilla played along at first, but by the time they got to the Border she was exhausted and scared. Jessica scouted out the Rio Grande neither She nor Camilla could swim so she nervously look for the shallowest part.

1 (16m 30s):
Anthem says ya ya ya bum ya know as we were walking into the river. It was as if fate had intervened, but of course have been this Dino has every time we took a step in the water. There was always a rock that we could see that is it was as if God had placed Stones there so that we could walk and nothing would happen

3 (16m 48s):
to us

1 (16m 49s):
the water never got that high. I don't even think it got Above our knees and so when we got to the other side, we saw the people from border patrol, but their pattern get along

3 (17m 1s):
is Jessica felt a rush of relief. That's it. She thought the hardest part is over. A border patrol agent get out of a truck Moises have been planning for this moment and he knew exactly what to do and Moises speaks fluent English, which is incredibly unusual for an asylum Seeker. He took off his backpack and he spread out the pile of evidence supporting his Asylum claim.

1 (17m 25s):
Yeah. I say right away. We're phony Kerala we want to apply for Asylum was seeking political Asylum here are these including we have our passports and they took notes and everything

3 (17m 36s):
the border patrol separated my sass from Jess. And Camilla, they took his bag with all the evidence in it for 12 days. They were detained in small crowded tents. They were just sitting on the ground waiting in the same clothes. They had worn on the trip North

1 (17m 51s):
as I don't know how we got there. We were what when we cross the river our shoes in our pants got wet and they did dry off but they dried off on our bodies. This is it going nice little waterfall and the shoes gave me like a fungus on my feet because I didn't take them off boy. They come on one of you We got there. We couldn't bathe. Our clothes were itching us so much my underwear,

3 (18m 13s):
especially. Moises kept repeating himself to janitors guards anyone. When can we apply for Asylum? He asked where is my backpack? Finally some guards came to get them. The guard said everyone get your stuff. We're taking you on a bus the hands of moist his backpack. It seems Jessica like they were about to be released and allowed to apply for Asylum

1 (18m 37s):
animal fairly said we were all happy we were all hugging each other because the rumor was When that bus arrived it was going to take us to wherever we were going to be like Miami or whatever the people meeting you work. And so we were happy because we thought that this entire bitter Journey was going to come to an end.

3 (18m 59s):
She looked Moises to see if he was also feeling hopeful but my SAS was more skeptical and Jessica noticed the US attorney's out had used coronavirus as an excuse to shutter what was left of the u.s. Asylum system in March the Centers for Disease Control. Control wrote an order saying that Asylum Seekers could be expelled because they pose a risk to Public Health during the pandemic it later turned out that the order was conceived of by immigration officials at the White House not MediCal experts and even though Moises Jessica and Camilla tested negative for Coronavirus while in custody they can be deported but they didn't know that they were Captain information black hole for a few days and then put in a van.

3 (19m 42s):
No one would tell them where they were going at. What? What point do you realize that that the Vans going to the

1 (19m 48s):
airport? When when after the end when they stopped the first down and then continue the trip, my wife told me that I look do some science street signs is airport Brownsville, then then we realized oh my God, we're going to report then we went back to Nicaragua. What was that again? Is my God. What am I gonna do? They don't have they're gonna they're gonna put me in jail. I get any Kerala they're going to arrest me. They're going to shoot me in the head. They're gonna disappear more myself and my wife's do not send me to to another to another Cheapo t44 rest of my life.

1 (20m 30s):
Now the really make sure they're going to kill me when I'm Camilla evil or mean. I told me oh, well Camilla was sleeping and with us was very nervous. I think it's one of the few times I've ever seen him cry and it's really only a few times that he has because I can tell you that I can count them on one hand and still have fingers left. Over well denominator is over. I'm Dale but that day I did see him crying and he was crying a lot because obviously he was very scared.

3 (21m 1s):
He cuando Vista can be summarized as crying. What did you say did you say anything?

1 (21m 9s):
No, no, we had a Solo solo be not really. I didn't say anything. I just looked at him and he told me what are we going to do? What's going to happen? I'm scared that they're going to take me to the Chipotle and I didn't say anything. I kept quiet because I also thought that that was going to happen so I couldn't tell him that that wasn't going to happen when deep down. I felt that it would be all upset is so you couldn't resist sin TSU up

3 (21m 35s):
as Voices and Jessica first tried not to believe what was happening in all of their planning. They'd never consider that this could happen never before in the modern history of the u.s. Asylum system has the u.s. Sent political dissidents back to the country. They fled without first allowing them to open Asylum applications yet there. They were being sent back to Nicaragua delivered into the hands of their torturers police would be waiting for them at the airport and they weren't alone dozens of Nicaraguan Asylum Seekers. Were herded onto a charter plane destined for a country whose treatment of political Prisoners the state department said demonstrates the regimes utter disregard for human life and Democratic freedoms.

3 (22m 18s):
Not only is it a break from US policy going back decades. It's also a clear violation of international Refugee law. I talked to people at the UN and they were like, yeah, this is definitely illegal US Customs and Border Protection did not respond to my request for comment they claimed that people seeking Asylum. Still receive credible fear interviews though. I didn't find any evidence to support that. The pilot comes on the intercom and calmly tells people to put their seat belts on like it's a normal flight. Meanwhile, the passengers are freaking out. They're still not completely sure where they're going.

1 (22m 57s):
Well, this is it. This is a way to carve. The the pilot said well the time the time expected to Nicaragua is three hours something like that and I say, oh my God, then we are now. Now we really going back, you know this like you feel you feel like unsecured you feel like there's nothing I can do man. I cannot jump on the

3 (23m 20s):
plane the passengers were whispering to each other if they take me straight to prison call. My mom one man said whoever disappears we stall assume. He's in she put a said another voice s recognize some of the other activists. He told me and my producer Nadia Raymond about it

1 (23m 39s):
and like everybody was in shock cause everybody was in handcuffs. Well, we're pretty sure this. Oh man. This is a this is I remember like this movie Conair when it was going in the plane everybody with it was fighting with the officer they about I don't want to go back to Nicaragua. I don't want to be sent to Nicaragua and more people are saying that on the plane. Yeah put me learning Allah and Donna Moss, LOL pasi?n Del Centro, Camilla was sitting beside the window oysters beside the aisle, and I was in the middle because I'm afraid of flying but I was so Are from the uncertainty from not knowing what was awaiting us that I had wasn't even scared of flying. I told myself that I couldn't even feel with the pilot was doing I didn't even feel like I was flying on an airplane and all sentient to get a felony and worry.

1 (24m 24s):
Oh,

3 (24m 25s):
well, they're midair muy fast realizes something the back pack this bag fold evidence. He's about to land with it and the police are going to see it. He can't think about anything else. The u.s. Immigration agents put it with the checked luggage. So it was somewhere in the belly of the plane Mois?s couldn't even hold. It couldn't look at what was inside and come up with a plan. If the police find it they'll see that he listed the names of specific torturers and what they did to him. Maybe they would decide to kill him just for that. Maybe they rape his daughter. He thinks his mind is spiraling out of control next to him. Jessica is busy trying to soothe Camilla feeding her Doritos

1 (25m 6s):
when we left their backpack for me was like the the hope there with that I had so I can make it to the US and applied for Asylum those like my I Savor my ticket to freedom and when I was coming back to him that I was did the opposite I was thinking oh my God, that is the reason why they're gonna they're gonna shoot me or they're going to kill me because that's whenever I have all the evidence and proof that I had. So the same backpack that is gonna take me to Freedom is the one he's gonna kill me right now.

3 (25m 45s):
When the plane lands Moises looks out the window at the fleet of Nicaraguan soldiers and police waiting for them. Everyone gets in line walking down the steps the plane moistness and Jessica and all of the others are LED into a garage like office where the government is conducting interrogations their padded down their government IDs are confiscated. The whole time Moises is thinking about his backpack. One officer snap pictures of them another address them by name and asked what they were doing in the US and why they were deported when Seth tried to avoid answering they got me in Texas. He said shrugging It Off. They're led to another area full of police, Jessica and Camilla walk hand in hand.

3 (26m 30s):
But Moises his eyes Dart around frantically searching for some sign of his backpack. Finally. He sees the luggage cart pull up and there it is Mois?s grabs his backpack and turns to face the wall of a building. It's the closest you can get to hiding. He reaches into the backpack and feels for the pages. He finds his statement the document that outlines an explicit detail everything that happened to

1 (26m 56s):
them. And I knew that the first paper that I touch I knew was that statement. So when I noticed that they were not looking at me, I grabbed it and I put it like in a fist in my inside of my chest then after that I didn't like I was wiping my face with a paper like I was Sweating because it was a lot of it was very hot when I got there. So I was sweating a lot. So what I did is I made him think that I was using the paper to clean my sweat then when they were not looking I was going to throw in the trash can actually I thought about it, but I said, oh my God, I'm not going to throw in the trash can to my senior them over my find it, you know, so what I did is the first thing that I thought was going to stay eating it like real fast knowing liked it like it was it was like wet because of the sweat is so it was easy to swallow.

3 (27m 47s):
Which how many pages did you actually eat?

1 (27m 50s):
They were five pages.

3 (27m 52s):
How did you how did you eat five pages of

1 (27m 54s):
paper? I don't know man. I think it was real scary. I just start swallowing. My wife says that I have a big mouth. I think that helped so when I when I realized I liked him couple of seconds, I really had everything choking to my throat. So I start swallowing.

3 (28m 13s):
What about what did the paper taste like?

1 (28m 15s):
Well because because of his sweaty was very very salty was terrible. Yeah this year

3 (28m 21s):
as they walk through the crowd of police. He kept waiting for them to take him away. Waiting for them to open his bag they never did. Instead the police drove my sass Jessica and Camilla to Jessica's mom's house in a patrol truck when they got there the police started taking more photos. Like they were scouting a crime

1 (28m 41s):
scene equal and also Jerusalem. Oh Camilla, so when we got out Camilla was very skinny since we left she had lost weight. So my mom didn't recognize her when she saw the three of us. She didn't even recognize us. Out of the band and they said we're going to hand over your family members now and we'd like to take a picture so that there's evidence that the people who were deported or hand it to their family members. I gave you this yet akif when prayer for me.

3 (29m 15s):
This is how Nicaragua's para police often work. They make note of where you live and when they want to they go after you Moises and Jessica had to figure out what to do next after a few days. They noticed that the police were circling the house. The police called it random and asked about Camila staying at a known address was too dangerous. They didn't think the police would hurt Camilla, but what if they came from way SAS or Jessica? Well Camilla was there she could be swept up in the violence some way Sasson Jessica relocated to the attic of a safe house and left Camilla. They told her we'll see you soon, but truthfully they had no idea when it was brutal to say goodbye.

3 (29m 57s):
But what was the alternative a thought if Camilla was attacked on there? Half that would be much worse. Jessica cried when she said goodbye that was about two months ago. She's cried most days since

1 (30m 10s):
they took don't do I still feel guilty? Okay? Forget solar how much time o Dita we're in hiding. I can't always see my daughter and I can't keep every promise that I made. I feel like I failed as a mother the Go - are you?

3 (30m 37s):
Their days are now about hiding they spent weeks in the Attic sleeping on the floor. Now, there are floor Below in a tiny mostly empty bedroom, but they're still just as afraid of being found the landlord warns them when someone is downstairs so they can remain extra quiet. When one of them drop something or accidentally makes a loud noise. They're like anyone here that is that the thing that's going to give us away. Sometimes Jessica wakes up and for an instant has no idea where she is. She has to remind herself. I'm back in Nicaragua. I'm in hiding in my own country. They're back where they were a year ago asking the same questions should we leave and when this time the answers are harder to agree on

1 (31m 21s):
I was among the new official 2014 party. Sometimes they are very intense argument because right now we don't know what's going to happen. We don't know how long things are going to be like this. It's like being in jail without the torture if that a scene that sort of Toda better your business. I think there is tortured psychologically emotionally because you can't be near the people you love

3 (31m 45s):
what does versus for the offenses that how many times a day do you think about what you're going to do about your plans for what to do next?

1 (31m 52s):
After I sent mother think up until a few days ago. It was up to 20 hours a day, but I've decided that I need to wait one day this month Maurice has made it very clear that the door was closed that we just needed to wait for the door to open that we just needed to have patience because I don't know what else we can do. No circuit poem has said we can't think about leaving if we don't have the economic means but we can't think about staying here because I How much longer we can organize your Taekwondo parameter must be important?

3 (32m 36s):
Most of the people arriving at the US border these days know that the Asylum system has been whittled away like Moises and Jessica. They knew it wasn't going to be easy that it could take years, but they believed in their case that pile of papers and Moises is backpack. Anyone who saw them would be convinced. They thought What they didn't believe in. Why would they was that no one would even look that the backpack would end up back in a safe house next to moisturize his head when he sleeps everything still inside the way it was when they left for the first time.

3 (33m 19s):
Kevin seif is the Mexico and Central America bureau chief for the Washington Post version of this story appeared in the Washington Post and in their daily podcast post reports. Coming up people who work in a field where it is really hard to find a good steady job these people find one and then the only problem is they have to actually come in and do the job every day exactly the way they did it the day

1 (33m 45s):
before and I mean like exactly

3 (33m 46s):
the way they did it. That's a minute from Chicago public radio when our program continues support for This American Life comes from Netflix's the trial of the Chicago 7 Aaron sorkin's latest film about one of the most bizarre and momentous trials in American history now go behind the scenes of the film and hear more about the parallels between this moment in history. And what's going on in America today with the official six-part Companion podcast from Netflix featuring conversations with Sorkin his cast and political and legal experts new episodes are released every Friday wherever you listen to the trial of the Chicago 7 now on Netflix This American Life Meyer glass

1 (34m 30s):
today's program the walls

3 (34m 31s):
close in stories of people trapped in small spaces and what that's like we've arrived it at two of our program back to music of the night after night after night after night after night after night after night after night. We're not going to people who made a choice a conscious choice to stick themselves into a cramped uncomfortable space for years inside the theater. You know, the old saying Hell is other people actually comes from theater comes from a play No Exit. The play was not written by a member of a theater Orchestra. But Jay Caspian Kang has this story about how many musicians in Theatrical orchestras might understand the sentiment Nick GMO moved to New York in 2006 to try to make it as a musician.

3 (35m 14s):
He just finished up. And had all these dreams of playing the trumpet for a living but it was a struggle there just aren't many jobs for trumpet players anymore. So he mostly waited by the phone for gigs

1 (35m 26s):
Korean mega church services

3 (35m 28s):
experimental plays and the occasional substitute job with Mary Poppins on Broadway and then a spot opened up at his favorite show. It's might be TMI, but I remember I was in my apartment. I was on the toilet and I got a phone call and I didn't recognize the number and I listen to a voicemail saying hi. This is Kristen and freaked out. This is one of the conductor's for Phantom of the Opera. She offered him a job playing shows six days a week and twice on Thursdays and Saturdays. I'm not sure I probably didn't let her finish her sentence, you know? Yes, I'm very excited very interested and available.

3 (36m 10s):
Those the light changing really Did you feel you're like won the lottery Oh Yes. Actually, I remember the next day. I had to go grocery shopping. And I remember I Remember by coconut water. I don't know why that was like my treat because I always wanted to buy coconut water, but it was always like too much of a you know, what this is as don't need to spend. I remember buying coconut water and feeling like such a badass and I just felt like I can buy anything here. It wasn't just a steady income. Nick was excited about Phantom of the Opera was a show naked love since he was 11 years old. He had just started playing the trumpet and would lay on his livingroom floor listening to the music of the night.

3 (36m 51s):
You know, it slowly gently night unfurls, its splendor. That called changed his life. He had finally arrived Phantom on Broadway. On his first day Nick entered the Majestic Theater on 46th and 8th Avenue. He walked through a back alley pass a giant tub of dry ice down a flight of stairs into a locker room where he changed into all black. He then headed into the pit to play the music. He had loved as a child. He had his own seat there now in a music stand. So he played the first show next day. He went back and played it again. And then again his brain started to adjust to playing the same show eight times a week.

3 (37m 34s):
Then he started to notice. It wasn't just the music that repeated itself. You know, I'm seeing the same actors of the exact same time and the same musicians at the exact same time and seeing the same people the bathroom at the exact same time. Every time one of the dancers comes through to put her wig on. She says to one of the other dancers good job, Erica, like every single day is very Groundhog Day at first, this is funny. Almost Charming. Nick was 30 and the youngest person in the pit not by a few. Years, but by a few decades, he'd never been in a situation like this where everyone seems so locked into routine. His colleagues would sit down in the chairs at the exact same minute every day.

3 (38m 17s):
There is a chalice to it's a marvelous every time they gassed him how he was doing there was the first horn player who had pull out a stop watch every single night to time how long the second horn player held a note in one of the songs some days. It would be 17 seconds other day 16.2 Definitely start to notice people are talking about each other been complaining about the same people are late every single week, you know, if you bump into a stand by accident, you'll get a like a you doing kind of look like take a deep breath. No, like

1 (39m 1s):
what what is it like being that the youngest guy there? The young guy

3 (39m 6s):
basically I'm not as jaded as the rest of them. You know, if I say anything that's not like, you know sucks to be here with a like how you've been here long enough. You're still new just don't know, you know people kind of walk in there like okay, I can't do this again and some of us just in their body language the way they walk in the door like the kind of trudging, you know, or when someone says so I have to do this tonight Phantom of the Opera opened on Broadway in January 1988. it was an instant

1 (39m 35s):
hit everyone who has seen this musical comes away and chanted

3 (39m 41s):
the show is virtually guaranteed to run well into the next decade it did and then another decade and another the musicians of the pit signed contracts with the provision which guarantee their jobs until the show shut down they expected to maybe three years, but the show kept going as three years turned into five years which then Then turned into 32 that's over 13,000 performances. Phantom is now the longest running show in the history of Broadway.

1 (40m 14s):
There's almost a feeling I think of nausea. But you have to do it again. You have to do it. Again.

3 (40m 21s):
That's Melanie felt an oboist who's been in the pit for 28 years now. I

1 (40m 25s):
don't know how to describe it a physical Sensation that I get a literally that I'm jumping out of my skin. Like my it's a leg thing. I can't stand my skin. I'm going crazy. Oh no that thing is happening.

3 (40m 37s):
I first heard about the pit and Phantom through a friend. Whose wife had recently subbed in the violin section. She described what she had seen as a horror show like waiting for guffman but 30 hard. Years down the line. I couldn't quite get it out of my head.

1 (40m 52s):
One of the first things people ask how can you possibly say saying and play the same music every night

3 (40m 58s):
Pete right has been playing Phantom since opening night. He's a French horn player who times the notes on the stopwatch every night.

1 (41m 5s):
Now there is something in that way you I would look at the music sometimes and I would just literally look

3 (41m 11s):
like shapes. I would just see like like circles and lines and dots and I would have no idea. I don't even know what page I was on. It's like a disassociative feeling almost. Like

1 (41m 25s):
I said, like hearing yourself speak and you

3 (41m 27s):
don't and you aren't sure it's English. Alright, well that isn't it. I don't think that's ever happened to me Pete. And then the funny thing is you see someone else do it you immediately know what's going on with them. What is their face look like? Oh, they're just really glad they just it's as if they don't even know where they are. They're like waking up in another. Room it's like what happened? Where am I? What day is it? What week is it? When I started talking to the pit musicians a couple of years ago. I wanted to know how they found meaning in the mundane and inevitable repetitions of life in lots of jobs.

3 (42m 10s):
People do the same thing every day, but nothing quite like this you're hearing the exact same lines from the stage playing the exact same notes for the same songs. Even the guy sitting next to you breathes in the exact same Rhythm every day the Phantom kisses Christine for the first time in the same chandelier comes Sit down in the same spot on the stage. I assume the orchestra members were like Zen archers could pull back the same bow of the same motion until they die. I talked to a trumpet player named Lowell her she Lo has been at the show since day one and everyone says, he's the sanest person in the pit. And it kind of drives you nuts for the first few weeks. And then after that your mind deals with it and just flushes it out.

3 (42m 56s):
So when you're not there you don't think about it. It do, you know the words to the song that you're playing. No, it's not not entirely. We're in the world where it me fondly whatever. I mean, I remember one time after the show had been running for a while. It's somebody asked me to play a little bit of a tune from the show and I couldn't even do it. I couldn't even think of one and submerge this so much for Brands like basically just rejected. In cognizant of the music is going on that I think that's typical of people who do shows what do you think the right type of personality is that can handle this job?

3 (43m 39s):
I'm descended from a long line of serfs and peons, you know people who are used to laboring in the fields for for hardly any money and a relatively happy with that. The Phantom players aren't exactly serfs. They're well paid they play a beloved show and they get to play in small orchestras on the side. But these are highly trained musicians. He went to the fanciest music schools in the world. Andrew Lloyd Webber wanted the best of the best for Phantom which means that it will always sound good though. It also creates some creative and spiritual problems for the players who have to get through the score night after night after night. I'm a violet operator.

3 (44m 20s):
He described that's that's how he described it. Yeah. I'm it's very technical I have I

1 (44m 26s):
have no emotional connection with it.

3 (44m 29s):
That's a violinist named Kirk. Kobol. He's a composer his dream was always to right. Scores for horror films he's now been a fan of for 22 years long enough to see three people in a section die, but I'm playing the show nobody's interested in my creative input. I've often compared it to working in a hospice. You know, it's just we just keep the show alive as long as we can. So here they all are in this weird social experiment trap together for decades 27 musicians crammed into this tiny space a trumpet player told me it's like playing in a submarine.

3 (45m 16s):
I've been down there and you can barely turn around without knocking into something in the pet. You notice everything the way your neighbor blows out his spit valve way. Someone brags about their kids the smell of someone's Every little annoyance every perceived slight accumulates one of my favorite stories which would drive anyone who has ever played in a band crazy. There's this bassoon player who has sat next to the same clarinet player since 1988. She's convinced. He plays half a note flat on every note. He's ever played. He denies this. The person I talked to the most in the pit was Melanie the oboist.

3 (45m 55s):
She's one of the rare People You Meet who has no real filter.

1 (45m 59s):
So I was complaining about something which I imagined was that it was really cold. It's always really cold and then someone else from the orchestra said just so tired of the sound of your voice. You know and I'm tired of the sound of my voice to so I kind of sympathize with her then it was a violinist got mad at me cuz I said I use Roundup in my garden. She said she wouldn't speak to me for I don't know weeks

3 (46m 27s):
during most of our talks Melanie was making reads. It's an extraordinarily meticulous process. There's all sorts of medieval-looking tools and Tiny bits of wood everywhere.

1 (46m 37s):
Lobos are the most optimistic people in the world because every time they make a read they think that it might work. They usually don't but anyway this part. Oh no, I'm skipping the most important part. You need to pick your color of thread and it just makes all the difference and I never know what color lipstick this is. The only fun that I have so That god-awful noise

3 (47m 3s):
now and he studied at Julliard. She dreamed of being the principal oboist in the Metropolitan Opera or the Philharmonic, but she kept bombing her additions her nerves got the best of her every time she was up for a big seat and then life and bills intervened Phantom in that way is a very good job in a field where there aren't a lot of good jobs anymore. If it Melanie's kids through college Her mortgage and provided security while the music industry collapsed around her but at the end of 30 years sitting just inches away from your co-workers, you lose all sense of proportion your enemies turn into monsters for Melanie. The monster in the pit was always a trumpet player named Francis Bonnie everything.

3 (47m 47s):
He did true of Melanie nuts from the black biking shorts. He wore in the pit to always eating his dinner in the locker room with his back turned to

1 (47m 54s):
her Francis was the miserable son of a bitch. Each and at a certain point he started wearing like he put this BRAC like shade on the side of his glasses. He's wearing those whose cause he doesn't want to see me right? That's why he's wearing dice. I really truly believe this

3 (48m 9s):
I wanted to run this all by Francis. It just seems too unreasonable Francis. The only person I had talked to who had actually escaped from the pit. He got in a truck and drove out to the middle of nowhere in Colorado. He says, he's much happier. Now

1 (48m 23s):
you spoke of Melanie.

3 (48m 25s):
Oh, yeah everything. I understand that you two did not have the best relationship one of the things that you told us was that that you basically made an eye patch so that you wouldn't have to look at her. Is this a true story that just telling us

1 (48m 38s):
I did do that at some point but that wasn't just because of

3 (48m 40s):
Melanie she's taking it too personally. It was actually anybody that was on my right to told us for a long time that you sat in the locker room and that you would turn your back to everybody because you didn't want to look at

1 (48m 56s):
them. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, it was in the locker room. I came there. I ate my dinner looked at the white wall went in play the show and then left the theater left the premises as fast as I could and it worked beautifully.

3 (49m 11s):
Can you compare that relationships that you have with other relationships? It's family.

1 (49m 18s):
It's just as you can't stay

3 (49m 19s):
ahead and putting up with people that you just don't want to hear their voice again you sit

1 (49m 24s):
there. Thousands and thousands and thousands and thousands of

3 (49m 29s):
hours. This is like a quarter of a lifetime the musicians in the pit. Don't play the whole time which means there are thousands of hours where they're not actually doing anything and during those rest. They read books spy Thrillers and Mysteries and do the crossroad with their neighbors the trumpet player has taught himself three languages another musician ran a wood shop business on his laptop during the show and socially it's a bit like Middle School there the loners the jocks and the French horns. They're like the boys in the back of the bus. They bring in fart machines and run the same practical jokes over and over. Sometimes they even mess with the audience.

3 (50m 10s):
The front row is right up against the pet. So close that their feet sometimes dangle next to the Musicians heads. Occasionally, one of the French horn players would take out a bottle of white out and write little messages on The Souls of the audience that shoes

1 (50m 24s):
those guys. They're sitting right behind me. They're always chattering and laughing. I being me if I play badly. I think oh God, they're saying how terrible I am. Oh God. I don't want to humiliate myself

3 (50m 38s):
this more than anything. Melanie told me is what makes her want to sound good every night. She's worried. The French horn guys will make fun of her.

1 (50m 47s):
I'm not playing for the audience because the audience doesn't and so I'm playing for those French horn players. I do want to say one of the Once I've gotten over the years is how do you still play so well when you've just been doing phantom for all those years and sees a choice that I've made my choice is to play this music like it's any other music that I play. And and make it beautiful and

3 (51m 10s):
you decide something from a phantom.

1 (51m 11s):
Well, I can play the really hard one. If it's really bad though. They do not.

3 (51m 19s):
Nobody is in the Phantom pit right now the show temporarily closed in March because of covid-19 the Unstoppable show had finally been put on pause. I recently checked in with Melanie again. She wasn't doing very well. Her mother had died in a nursing home in New Jersey presume covid positive. She wasn't getting paid by the show anymore, and she missed Phantom. This is surprising to me Melanie in all the other musicians had told me about their fantasies of finding leaving the show and I had believed them. But now that it had actually happened.

3 (51m 60s):
She missed a

1 (52m 0s):
routine, you know, Phantom. I miss the comradeship, you know, the repetition of the silly jokes and watching everyone eat and I don't know the routine. I kind of like routine in my life this of course is the opposite of what she

3 (52m 16s):
said in the past before covid.

1 (52m 19s):
It was always easy to complain that it was boring and to complain about driving into the City and wasting all that time in the car and you know playing the same music and going home again, and I just thought I knew I was lucky back then but it becomes very real now. I mean what can I say now? I really know what it's like not having this job. You know, it's just so much fun to complain about things that don't matter all the women in the bathroom. They were just always talking about their expensive hair and makeup and I miss the women in the bathroom and I yeah, I'd be happy to complain about that again.

3 (53m 10s):
Before the pandemic every time I talk to Melanie, I would ask how she was doing. Her answer always depended on parking. It's hard to park in Midtown Manhattan. The good parking spot was a good day. But that parking spot was a bad day. This is how she made sense of her life. I think about this all the time. Most of our lives are spent finding parking for the job. We don't want to do Melanie's not alone in that and after any number of years those routines accumulate and that's more or less your life. Of all the people I talk to in the pit one musician dealt with the mundane and inevitable repetition of life in a way that really stuck with me for the past two decades in the pic Kurt the musician who describes himself as a violin operator has been dreaming up the most elaborate and metaphorically perfect coping mechanism.

3 (54m 7s):
It's a band made up entirely of automate ins I met these robot. Ian's in a warehouse in Yonkers the pan ban the pan band stands for partially artificial musicians Kurds automatic guns are made up of scraps of metal and string all wired up to a soundboard that Kirk can program to create whatever sounds he wants. There's Magnus and electric cord, Oregon Krieg the bass guitar and then there's Rosie the theremin

1 (54m 37s):
this is Jack a solid body electric violin using

3 (54m 42s):
the exoskeleton

1 (54m 44s):
design This is what helps alleviate the boredom of the redundancy of phantom because I'm constantly

3 (54m 55s):
thinking about this project and how I

1 (54m 59s):
can improve the

3 (55m 0s):
Automation and the kind of music that I would like to create. Why did you decide to do this if I ever see a therapist? Maybe they will help me understand that's been I'm at their best. Like what's her part of it where you're like man. I am playing this Orchestra. I'm not expressed. You know, it's not the expressiveness that I want. I also kind of feel like an automatic on you know, and maybe I'll just make an automat on Azure Islands. Yeah. I mean I can I can see exploring that. Am I looking for some kind of Soul healing from this dehumanization of being in a violent section possibly.

3 (55m 51s):
I asked her if the pan band could play the music of the night or all I ask if you or any of the Phantom Classics, he wasn't into that at all. This band was not designed to play Andrew Lloyd Webber. But something inside him just couldn't get away from Phantom of the Opera. Back when he was sitting in the pet he composed just in his head both the prequel and the sequel to Phantom both which involve Indiana Jones type characters in years ago. He got a copy of the 1925 silent film version of Phantom and wrote an entire score. He wanted to play it for me. He turned out the lights in the warehouse and projected the film onto the wall the pan band started to play the score features him Kurt as the solo violin is in the star of the show.

3 (56m 40s):
The automaton is all play the same thing occurred always improvises. None of his shows are ever the same. Take a spin Kang is making a documentary about the Phantom pit his co-host of the podcast Time to Say Goodbye.

3 (57m 20s):
I'm

1 (57m 20s):
waiting for

3 (57m 31s):
my program is produced today by Aviva to kornfeld people put a program together today includes the amount of one me on a baker Susan Burton Ben Calhoun DNA chip is seane corn or Gilda. Great Vantage of free world making me Catherine raimondo Stone Nelson Nadia Raymond, Robin Sammy and Chloe Sullivan crystallites with column at tyranny and Diane. Whoo. I'm managing a loose our abdulrahman senior editor David Kessler mom executive editors Emanuel Berry special. Thanks today to our interpreter Gabriella Munoz. Also David why Grace Paradise Isabel Castro glad mccaig of Cameron Dennis Karissa Henderson, Alex Newman and Jean Hannah Edelstein. I website This American Life dot-org we can scream our Archive of over seven hundred episodes were

1 (58m 8s):
absolutely free. Three plus there's videos. There's list of favorite

3 (58m 11s):
programs. There's all kinds of other stuff there. Again the website This American Life dot-org This American Life is to give it a public radio stations by PRX the public radio exchange sport, but This American Life comes from Sierra Nevada Brewing Company family-owned operated is argued over since 1980 proud supporter of independent thought whether that's online over the air or in a can or bottle more, it's Sierra Nevada.com and from doctor. Season 2 which tells the incredible true story of what happened when the FBI uncovered a scam where Michigan doctor had poisoned over 500 patients with drugs. They didn't need to treat diseases. They didn't have dr. Death season 2 is available on Apple podcast and from Sitka salmon chairs the community supported fishery delivering seasonal shares of traceable.

3 (58m 59s):
Wild Alaskan seafood recipes and more about their small boat fleet at Sitka salmon cheers.com / Tal. Well 2021 chairs now open. Thanks as always your programs co-founder. Mr. Troy. Mallick Tia, you know, he and I were talking the other day and he let slip he hasn't been listening to our program for weeks

1 (59m 21s):
as like what

3 (59m 22s):
totally confronted him about it. And I don't know I guess he had a good reason.

1 (59m 30s):
Just so tired of the sound of your voice.

3 (59m 32s):
I'm Ira Glass back next week. I thought Tori I get it,

1 (59m 36s):
you know, and I'm tired of the sound of my voice to so I kind of sympathize.

3 (59m 58s):
Next week on the podcast of This American Life with gun sales up in these unsettling times. We ask all kinds of people. Why'd you buy your first gun now I actually went and looked at guns, but it one gun shop on the Thursday after the debate and they were out there like out of guns. They were out of ammo. They're white liberals like that guy people of color. There's a lot of fear, you got the extremists and you don't know who they are the next week on the podcast on your local public radio station.