3 (1s):
Support for This American Life comes from all birds introducing All Birds Apparel all birds new line of tops and outerwear uses premium natural materials and intentional design. So you can look good feel good and tread lighter on the planet head to all birds.com for the perfect holiday gift to give and receive. Support for This American Life comes from Monday.com a flexible platform to manage any team project or workflow online collaborate with your teammates and track everything your team is working on wherever you are visit Monday.com to start your free two week trial. A quick warning. There are curse words that are unbeaten today's episode of the show.

3 (44s):
If you prefer a beeped version, you can find that at our website This American Life dot-org. Hey there America. We just get this election over with already. We've had enough excitement right more than enough pot twist the president getting coronavirus Ruth Bader Ginsburg dying that whole first debate the alleged contents of hundred Biden's hard drive which are either totally unconvincing or deeply urgently important depending on your point of view. We finally got to see the president's tax records. If you're all these years and the barely seem to make a dent in anything militia plotted to kidnap the governor of Michigan.

3 (1m 24s):
And then after that the president's followers chanting lock her up. The president joking not joking told his supporters in North Carolina to go out and try to vote twice. And then after that the Attorney General declared on CNN to Wolf Blitzer the voting twice might actually be legal. I don't know what the law in the particular States can't vote twice. Well, I don't know what the law in the particular state says and when that vote becomes violently state that says you can vote twice. Well, there's some you know, maybe that you can change your vote up to a particular term. I don't know what the law that's I'm not going to offer. He was saying testimony General William Parr looks amazingly relaxes. It has all this calm like nothing's out of the ordinary.

3 (2m 5s):
Nothing to see here officer watching. It's hard not to think.

1 (2m 8s):
He said

3 (2m 9s):
is this really happening. I got a team feeling looking at photos of the president's rallies where even now he's packing people in tons of people with no Mass not following CDC guidelines. He's doing this even after he his wife his son his press secretary his campaign manager the chair of the Republican National Committee White House housekeeping and Military staff members of the vice president's staff Stephen Miller Kelly and Conway and hope Hicks all got Coronavirus. Even though cases are at an all-time high and on the rise. Looking at the not so sure the distance crowds. It's like is this really happening? And now coming up this coming Tuesday rather going to have an election with a clear winner or apparently the vote will be contested a contested election seems to possible because the president keeps saying over and over he's way ahead in the polls and the suppose that we are all are seeing on the news saying that he's way behind those are fake.

3 (3m 9s):
And so if he loses he says there's only one possible explanation. The only way we can lose in my opinion is massive fraud and that's what That's what's happening. Because all over the country you seeing it thousands and thousands of ballots. How about them? It was Monday in downtown here. He is in Oshkosh Wisconsin Wednesday, because the only way we're going to lose this election is if the election is rigged to remember that the only way we're going to lose this election and we can't let that happen. There's no evidence for any massive proudly he's talking about when he talks about mail-in ballots being a problem, but she does nearly everywhere. There's no evidence for that. either Lots more Democrats than Republicans are voting with mail-in ballots this year.

3 (3m 52s):
Here's the president on Sunday in New Hampshire calling those ballots into question. The other way, they said minions are ballots. We don't know who's sending a we don't know where they're going. We don't know who's bringing them back. We don't know who signed them and it shouldn't be allowed and the Democrats know it's a hoax and we shouldn't let it happen. So this Tuesday he may fight those ballots. And we might find ourselves in a big no-holds-barred season finale contested election constitutional National meltdown with both sides arguing over whether to count mail-in ballots ballots had arrived after November 3rd, and if that happens people on both sides will probably take to the streets to protest and who knows where that might lead.

3 (4m 36s):
And then of course there are the scenarios where the whole thing gets thrown to Congress for the Supreme Court to decide so many different ways. This could play out where whichever side loses red or blue the probably never be able to see the final. Vision is fair and legitimate. So one half of the country will not accept who the other half puts into office or maybe that won't happen. Maybe somebody's going to win decisively. That's where we are. Our world is either about to slip into utter chaos or election. Go just fine and things will be fine. That's the unreality of now. There are so many things right now that make it feel like the ground underneath us is like thin as a cracker.

3 (5m 18s):
With molten lava underneath so many things it's hard to understand. This is real. This is really happening and today on our program. We have people trying to get their minds around that I have to say that is so much of the mood as we head into the Simpsons Halloween Special of an election day from WBEZ Chicago This American Life on our glass stay with us. And would you like to come up to First Class? So the journalist EG in Carol has been in the news this week when a federal judge ruled that the president can be sued by Carol.

3 (5m 59s):
Carol says the back in the 1990's Donald Trump raped her in the dressing room in the department store Bergdorf Goodman. He says she's lying. She's suing him for defamation. She's one of dozens of women who accused the president of sexual assault or harassment the president denies all of their allegations. These stories have been so widely covered and everybody's so used to them that the care of it felt like at this point they would just Being adored it seems kind of incredible to her. Our program today is about people feeling like is this really happening? And she definitely felt that about this it killed her that these stories just somehow didn't seem to matter and this summer she decided to try to do something about it. She had a bunch of conversations with other women who accuse the president and publish them in a series of stories in the Atlantic and our idea was most people only have a vague sense of these stories and don't have much of a sense of what these women say actually happened.

3 (6m 51s):
And by diving into the details of these stories should restore them to human size in full color. She's adopted one of the articles that you wrote for us. It's with one of the president's accusers name Jessica leads one thing about content before we start. This is a Frank conversation about sexual assault here zi Jing Carol. Let me set the scene Midsummer Twilight and Jessica leads and I are letting down what's left of our hair. Jessica is in her elegant Crib in the Blue Ridge Mountains. I'm in my little Shack just off the Appalachian Trail and we're zooming like two old screech owls discovering how much we have in common which includes our love for mr.

3 (7m 35s):
Paul Newman our age and our height. Are you now? Well, I'm 5-7. Now. I was 5-9 at this but I've lost two inches K2. I've lost two weeks. I don't know where they've gone. I've lost them. I love being tall when I was working. I was always so thankful. Yeah, me too and I was tall. About 40 years ago when Jessica was working as a sales person for a company that's old news print Publications like the Washington Post. She sat down next to Donald Trump on an airplane.

3 (8m 15s):
Let me just say that if you have never zoomed with a silver-haired soign? 78 year-old woman who describes what it's like being strapped in a seat on a braniff Airlines flight with a future president of the United States. Trying to fasten his lips on her like a 6-foot to suck the fish. Well in my opinion you have not lived a little own zoomed at all. But before we board that flight a refresher Jessica was one of the first women to publicly accused Trump of sexual assault in 2016.

3 (8m 55s):
It was on the front page of the New York Times. I knew if the story did get it in a attention that the first thing Trump would say is that I wasn't pretty enough right? I knew I knew instinctively that that's what he was going to say. How did Jessica know because Jessica is an old bat old bats are the best even better than Scrooge shelves. I'm an old bat myself. We all bats don't kid ourselves. And in fact one day asked the New York Times published a story about what happened to Jessica on that plane in 1980 Trump yammered about her accusations at a rally.

3 (9m 39s):
Oh, I was with Donald Trump in 1980. I was sitting with him on an airplane And he went after me on the plane. Yeah, I'm going to go after. Believe me. She would not be my first choice that I can tell. You don't know that would not be my first choice. I told Jesse at the same thing happened to me. I knew it was coming to I knew it a person that he said about me. He she's right. Hi because they're running pictures of me when I'm 75 years old, right and it's not fair if they write. This is a me as I looked you and I caught tons of shit because we're older women.

3 (10m 25s):
For the honour of Jessica leads and old bats everywhere. Jessica is a beauty now and she was a beauty 40 years ago when she got on that flight to New York and as she remembers it it was a brand of flight braniff was Chic Airline, her seat would have been full grain leather her flight attendant would have been clad and Halston and her plane. It would have been painted in purses green Mercury blue or sparkling burgundy. And so what were you wearing? Do you remember what you got on that plane up? I had my best suit was a brown Tweed. Oh, I love that suit and and was jacket and and a skirt.

3 (11m 9s):
It was a fabulous outfit really was I never wore it again after that day though. I hung on to it for quite a while, but I never wore it again. I know exactly what she means. It was the same for me with the dress I had on. Bergdorf I didn't want to throw it away because it was a beautiful daughter Karen. I would never throw it away, but I couldn't put it on because bad things happen. Yeah, exactly. Okay, so isn't that it's just we have so much in common. So, all right, so you were now tell me what happened and get on the plane. I get on the plane and I had I was sitting in the back and I remember watching the stewardess come walking down.

3 (11m 55s):
Down the aisle and she saw me and she said would you like to come up to first class? We have have space never occurred to me not to say yes. I gathered my my purse and I went up to First Class. That it happened before. Yeah, it's happened to me too. Yeah, I kind of accepted the fact that it was entertainment for the big honchos up in first class. Now, I don't understand if people understand what we're talking about, but that's what they did. They chose the yeah, okay. Yes stress people and put them up in first. That's right.

3 (12m 35s):
What we're talking about is how things used to be buying a ticket but not her best clothes. hopping on a cocktail party heading for New York or Chicago or Miami or any Jazzy City USA and this party like Zip, unless somebody very rich or very pretty was present Men In First Class would size up the female passengers before boarding and hold a brief conference with the checking crew or alternately a helpful flight attendant was simply stand in the aisle waving people away and rearranging Seating chart so that an extremely tall chap for instance with black hair like Greece felt that had the spot by me which is what I told Jessica and happened on a jumbo jet to La after the plane took off following the meal the chaps shows me a photo of his private plane.

3 (13m 32s):
Then he shows me a photo of his Rolls-Royce. Then he shows me his erection. It would never have occurred to me to call anybody and say anything. Expecting men to make a pass at I was not surprised. I expected it for men Jessica you and I were born during the second world war. He did not report we expected it and we

1 (13m 57s):
last but you

3 (13m 58s):
know, we were wrong we were wrong. We should have spoken up, you know the like they're doing now. Well we were so thankful though. I don't have the fucking job. Yeah. Oh, absolutely. Oh my Lord the flight attendant escorts Jessica to the front of the plane. She sits down in the aisle seat beside Donald Trump as I recall. He introduced himself the name meant nothing to me. It wouldn't have this was 1979 1980. Jessica wasn't a native New Yorker. She was not yet aware of all the levels the ranks the spears of New York society that Trump a young rat out of Queens was chewing his wife.

3 (14m 42s):
Through he was very good-looking in 1980 you agree? Well, I found it very attractive in 1990. Yeah, it was very pretty. Yeah, I guess I you know, it was not ugly.

1 (14m 58s):
I can remember

3 (15m 0s):
I don't remember my reaction. I he was perfectly reasonable when I first sat down it was blond tall good-sized man that sort of stuff but I don't remember being overwhelmed by his looks or yeah ask you about yourself. What did we talk about we talked about him. I remember we took off and they serve this wonderful meal and then they they came and they picked up everything and within a short amount of time all of a sudden.

3 (15m 43s):
He's like on me like a wet blanket.

1 (15m 48s):
Did he try to kiss you

3 (15m 49s):
first? Yes. Yes. She glances away from the screen with a revolted went it was such a shock. It was like all of a sudden he's like on me Jessica is ladylike. Therefore allow me for I have experience with Trump to say in plain English. What I believe Trump is about to do. I believe he will go straight for the crotch just like he brags on the Access Hollywood tape this man who today? A claims that he has never kissed or groped a woman without consent. It's like it's got four extra hands because he's grabbing my breasts.

3 (16m 29s):
He's trying to kiss me. I'm trying to get his hands off of me and this kind of struggle went on for a little while and then it's when he started to put his hand up my skirt. That I got a jolt of strength and managed to whittle myself out of the the seat Jessica Lee grabs her purse and storms to the back of the plane now wait, so did he make it all the way to your panties or not? No. No because you had by that time started stand-up, right? Right. Was there anybody else? Yeah, there was there was the guy across the aisle whose eyes were about the size of the sauce.

3 (17m 12s):
Sir, and I kept thinking why don't you say something or where is where is it stored his on this whole thing. You know, why doesn't somebody come and rescue me? And that's when I realized there's only me that was going to rescue me. So that's when I applied you thought of see some women freeze in this situation. Yes. Yes. I know. You didn't freeze. No. No, but I certainly didn't say anything. Anything here, I didn't scream I didn't do yeah, I laughed did you laughs? Yeah. No, I don't recall laughing. No, I took it.

3 (17m 53s):
Seriously. I mean I miss this was a real physical attack and attack and salt. Yeah, although we talk about Trump groping women. Most people don't understand how Brazen Trump really is because no one knows what groping means it's one of the reasons. I wanted to talk to the Trump accusers. Who knows what the heck Trump is actually doing or on what part of the female body he is doing it. One of Trumps accusers describe for me Trump putting his hand up her skirt and onto her vulva and she used the plain English. It was like a squishy said squeeze and she made a motion with her hand like squeezing a rubber duck.

3 (18m 40s):
That is groping. So why does Trump do it Jessica and I Ponder let's try to figure this out it main question is he knows he's not going to be able to have intercourse as you on the plane. He knows that is why has he do this white? What did he think he was going to gain did it wasn't sexual that. He you turning him on to such an extent that he couldn't stand it. What was it? Well, I personally I Can't I think I thought he was

1 (19m 15s):
bored.

3 (19m 19s):
Nothing happening, you know, so let's let's let's grab a little pussy here. You know, this is such an insight to me. This is such an Insight got it, but if it goes along with his Hollywood tape and no attend he has no attention span. No, no, was he reading at all beforehand? No, no this paper. Nope Phuket Autumn playing a 1980 without a ton of magazines newspapers the Wall Street that going And he had nothing to read. Nope. You said he was bored. That is an Insight that I think it really sends it home because some people have claimed he does it for power.

3 (20m 1s):
I don't think it has anything to do with power well could be but I really kind of just chalked it off to him being bored. So Trump grabs one woman then he grabs the next woman and the next woman and pretty soon we start thinking from grabbing women as normal then trunk grabbing women become so normal is boring. It is old news and there's so much that he's done. But Jessica is not old news for the most current they we tried to warn people we try to warn America.

3 (20m 43s):
This isn't he was And so now we seem to have been forgotten. We've been pushed. Well, we've been ignored and this drives me crazy. This is why we're doing this we're doing the do you know between now and the election that is our duty to once again, tell America what this man is like well, some people may have forgotten us, but you know who has not forgotten us the men who are voting for Trump because he grabbed us because he's Macho because Trump proved he can Paul any woman he wants and you know, who else is not forgotten women like Jessica and I will never forget.

3 (21m 31s):
How often did you think about this between then and 2015 when he came to the fore again, you know, I probably would not Have had its own blazed in my mind if it hadn't been for the gala at Saks Fifth Avenue the gala at Saks Fifth Avenue. This is a year or two after the flight and it's a benefit for the Humane Society of New York and a few other Charities. Jessica is the assistant to the president of the Humane Society and is handing out table assignments. I had this fabulous dress. Oh was it? Let me hear Mary McFadden. Gavin oh no, you pleaded all these little pleats in a taxicab yellow and I show up at Saks and I've got this great dress on and I'm doing my thing and I'm meeting Jeffrey being a meeting Bill Blass.

3 (22m 25s):
I'm meeting all of these designers and for this party and in fact Mary McFadden came up and looked at me and said that's my dress and I said, yes it is. But so it was it was really a fabulous. Was a fabulous evening and then Trump with his wife Ivana came up. She was pregnant very pregnant and he looked at me when I handed him his table assignment. And I'm looking at him thinking you were the asshole from the airplane. I Remember You The Future president of the United States remembers Jessica to and he looked at me and he said I remember you.

3 (23m 12s):
You're the come from the airplane each and Carol. She's journalist in the author of The Memoir. What do we need men for four series of conversations with women who accuse Donald Trump of sexual assault is available at the Atlantic.com. I guess I just most feel Daredevil. I don't feel anything. Peter I smashed it up Carla cold Carla hot not so with the wanna lock and All Along The Confidant to help me laughing and don't coming up seeing people fight over corn dogs in a grocery store leads one woman to do something that she has avoided for years that's in a minute Chicago public radio when our program continues Support for This American Life comes from all birds introducing All Birds Apparel a new line of tops and outerwear made from all birds premium natural materials like Merino wool eucalyptus fiber and the debut of kaitos an a naturally occurring fiber extracted from crab shells that reduces odor and keeps you fresh evolved from nature.

3 (24m 29s):
These pieces have impeccable design details and Next Level Comfort head to all birds.com for the perfect holiday gift to give and receive. Support for This American Life comes from Monday.com over 100,000 teams trust Monday.com to run their daily work track projects and measure success whether your team of five or five thousand Monday.com offers a flexible platform to manage any workflow or Project online communicate collaborate and plan on one transparent platform. Let Monday.com take care of what slows you down so you can focus on the work that drives you to start your free. Two week trial go to Monday.com.

3 (25m 13s):
This American Life America has today's program the unreality of now as we approach this historic and momentous election day. We have stories of people trying to get their heads around and adapt to the strange time. We are living through we've arrived at two of our program act to the gun reality of now one sign of how shaken up people are in our country right now gun sales the going nuts a record year according to the FBI. The FBI is doing twice the number of background checks. They did last year a survey of guns. Store owners by an industry trade group estimates that something like forty percent of their sales or to first time gun buyers 40 percent to people who've never undergone Billy Sullivan talk to some of them.

3 (25m 53s):
It was like a tour of different fears that people have about this country right now. The thing I wanted to know was why now? What's the thing that made you want a gun? Brian told me he was around gun some when he was growing up. He sometimes do target practice or go shooting. When you're 16 who's hunting with his family and he killed the deer it made him really sad. So he never bought a gun now. He's 52 and lives in Steamboat Springs, Colorado. It's in the mountains kind of a ski town in the winter. He just bought a gun the day. I talked to him a Glock nine millimeter. The thing that made him want one the first presidential debate the one where there was so much yelling

1 (26m 36s):
after watching that debate. I laughed out loud multiple times, but At the same time. I was

3 (26m 41s):
horrified. What was it about the debate?

1 (26m 44s):
Oh, I think it was just the nonce valid. It wasn't civil. I mean Biden was trying to be civil. But the leader of our country was not trying to be civil. I mean whoever thought our country would come to this to wear. It almost seems like I mean, I don't know if it's the in towards the Civil War but it's not it doesn't seem civil everybody on my side. We're mad everybody on that side. They're mad. I mean, it's I don't I don't know after the election

3 (27m 16s):
if it's the Republicans going to taste it very well. If they lose Trump's already saying that he's he hasn't said he's going to accept any kind of I mean it's going to be challenged and then you get I think there's gonna be I mean, there's gonna be people protesting contesting the election you mean, yeah results and I mean, it's just and you know, what and those people are going to be protesting results. I mean, I hope they don't become violent, but they're all Second Amendment gun-toting Americans, you know, and I don't know and I think I'm fine in my small little town that I live in but I mean you just never know.

3 (27m 58s):
I actually went and looked at guns that one gun shop on the Thursday after the debate and they were out there like out of guns. They were out of ammo I got online and I looked at stores in Denver and stuff like that. Even what sold out sold out sold out sold out sold out sold out unbelievable.

1 (28m 22s):
And so then I found another place. It's like an hour from home and they had guns. It's a weird thing because because I feel like I go to the gun counter and first off there's the whole mask non mask lip tard thing. So yeah so weird because you're talking to a bunch of gun-toting Republicans trying to buy a gun off. So then I'm there in like 10 or sweatpants. Hoodie, you know wearing a mask and so it's yeah, it's a little

3 (28m 54s):
bit you said lib tarde.

1 (28m 56s):
Oh, I've heard that so much and I went into my local gun shop wear masks should be required according to the ordinances and I was in there talking to the kid who had a pistol on the side, you know look like he was you know, he was definitely not voting for the same person. I'm voting for and he did not have a mask on and his dad who owned the shop did not have a mask on. And the kids after I'm in there for a couple minutes. He's like you don't have to wear your mask and I'm like, yeah, I'll go ahead and just keep my mask on if you don't mind any kind

3 (29m 29s):
of pause that he would like got choked up on like he was going to say some

1 (29m 33s):
stuff and I was like, well, we don't need to discuss it.

3 (29m 36s):
I'll just have some questions about these

1 (29m 38s):
guns and he kind of wasn't as nice to me after

3 (29m 42s):
that. Oh really? Like you think it may be my irritated. I'm a little or something. Yeah, like because I was lift art. Looking again. So I guess now I'ma gun-totin looked hard for these Renee the moment she decided to buy a gun happened in March to the nurse and San Bernardino County outside of La DJ has an aunt who wanted her to get a gun for years. Her aunt owns a gun store. It's actually the only black own gun store on the west coast where she trans women to shoot. Ooh These are nice pretty her on told me she worries about her knees dating and living alone.

3 (30m 26s):
DJ. I had even had a stalker once but the thing that flipped even a wasn't the soccer. She was in the grocery store after work one day the pain that Mike has just arrived.

1 (30m 35s):
I've never seen the grocery store. Look the way that it looked, you know lines wrapped around the building like people beating people up for their groceries or for their basket because there were none. And it was just like complete

3 (30m 51s):
pandemonium. You see beating people up like fighting. Yeah

1 (30m 55s):
people were getting it to fight physical fight.

3 (30m 58s):
So we what we were fighting

1 (30m 59s):
about. The last sanitizer I mean but there's my it wasn't just one. There were a couple of them people finding over the last packet issue literally blast pack of frozen corn dogs. If everyone would find everything that they can put their hands on and I just remember looking at all these people and it just made me scared. I said wow Scouts care, so I called my aunt and I said, hey, I need to buy a gun and she's like start laughing and I said, what do you have? And then I sent her the money like right there and I'll lick in line. Yeah, I build it to her. I literally I built in the money, but I'm like already paid for it.

1 (31m 39s):
This is mine put it

3 (31m 40s):
aside a lot of first-time gun owners. I talked to explain the reasons this way. They'd started to feel something weird in the are a kind of amorphous anxiety. Shane is 49 he has a house in the hills in Northern California. So in addition to all the coronavirus strangeness, they've also had wildfires and rolling blackouts. One day a few months ago the power went out and it didn't come back for 14 days, which meant no internet and then the cell towers stopped working. So things started getting weird, you know, that's how that's the best way that we can put it is is things started getting weird, like people would drive right up to the grocery store like not parked just like literally drive right up and nose first right in front of the doors for the grocery store and get out and just leave their car there.

3 (32m 31s):
You mean those sliding doors Yeah, so there was like fraying there's just a feeling there's just a feeling in the air. That was not a good feeling like you could pick up that things were getting kind of weird and we're going to get we're gonna get weirder if the if the power didn't come on soon. I asked chain and everyone else we think about eating a gun. What do you picture? Is there a scene that plays in your mind? Nearly, everyone said it's night. They're sleeping and someone dangerous shows up. Shane's version is people wandering to his house in a disaster finding it in the woods through the smoke and trying to take his family supplies their food their generator the things they need to survive those something pre-apocalyptic about it.

3 (33m 23s):
He's on his own protecting his home from a rotters. This is stuff. He doesn't think will happen. But at the same time for months, they've been surrounded by fires smoke so thick that it can look like dusk in the middle of the day so somehow it does seem possible to him all kinds of things. Do I wonder if there are people who in our community who resent us because we're successful or for whatever reason because we're Jews are because we're gay and you know, you know, we do have a growing Neo Nazi threat in this country, it's our biggest internal security danger is the growth of neo-nazis and these those people know how to use Firearms, you know, so but my feeling is if you're in the left or even a moderate you should be doing the same thing to protect yourself leave.

3 (34m 16s):
My husband's got a little out of control with the ammunition. He's purchased like sixteen hundred rounds and I said Glenn and then after a gun battle involving sixteen hundred rounds, you're gonna a would melt Out because they're all gets so hot you have to stop firing it after a certain point and I said our house would probably collapse it look like swiss cheese, like, you know, the walls would collapse and work on themselves, but he's like, it's just hard to find ammunition for this gun. And I'm like, I'm fine with about 75 rounds. Just don't feel like I need, you know, a hundred sixteen hundred rounds of ammunition that I actually asked him to please stop buying ammunition, but my gosh, he did really stock up. Okay and trying to picture a sixteen hundred rounds. Is that like a shoebox full of Elizabeth we actually did buy some Gucci some Gucci flats and there was filled up with that box was filled up with bullets.

3 (35m 5s):
It's kind of an incongruous look, you know the bitchy to box with a the 22 bullets. That's a gay male way of doing it. Nancy about her pistol around Mother's Day. She sent me a photo of herself on Mother's Day Justin a Lilly Pulitzer blouse and pale blue cardigan holding a Smith & Wesson 380 easy. She's 53. She owns a small business making luggage tags. She's also works as a nurse a lot in hospice. She lives with her family just outside of Appleton, Wisconsin. She described her town to me as your typical don't have to lock your doors suburb before this year.

3 (35m 48s):
She'd never even held a gun. It was actually kind of hard for her to explain why it felt so urgent. It's

1 (35m 53s):
kind of like a nameless faceless feeling that I have almost like the earthquake that the world had where everything shifted. Added and the normal that we knew is no longer there. It's like the axis no self office axis

3 (36m 11s):
since the pandemic. She says her world is suddenly shrunken to just her family and her home.

1 (36m 16s):
That was all you had and so someone was going to come into your house and take that away is everything else have been taken away. That was not okay

3 (36m 25s):
Nancy lives two hours north of Kenosha, Wisconsin where there were big protests after the shooting. Jacob Lake by police officers some demonstrators set cars and buildings on fire. The National Guard was called in a teenager a trump supporter who came to the protests in support of blue lives matter shot three people killing two of them. They've been protests in Appleton near where Nancy lives. It's

1 (36m 51s):
this small town. Nothing happens, you know, nothing goes on. We don't have any murders, but we had ride it here. In Appleton, so we got kind of a, you know, a small town Taste of both being upset and being

3 (37m 11s):
the tension the police in Appleton. Don't use the word Riot to describe what happened there one man was assaulted but there are no fires no vandalism and when Nancy and I talked about it more she agreed that Riot wasn't the right word Nancy already owned her gun by the time this happened but a lot of gun store owners have said that customers point. Protests is one of the reasons they felt so worried. I

1 (37m 34s):
don't want to sound like a privileged white woman that I'm living in, you know. This vowel there, which is really mostly white people here. I mean this is this is like almost Utah white. It's white white here, but if there's been more racial tension and more people coming in and I don't know. I think it's the underlying Fear and I don't know who I'm afraid of that's also kind of upsetting to as I don't really know. Who am I afraid of who am I worried

3 (38m 7s):
about tell me more about that. What do you mean?

1 (38m 10s):
I don't know, you know, is there somebody that's going to be coming for revenge like, you know, because I'm Caucasian, is there somebody that's coming for my property. Is there someone coming just because they feel like it

3 (38m 28s):
so When you're thinking about just the unrest are you like picturing black people or like because I also know that in Kenosha it was a white teenager who killed two people. So I'm just kind of curious. Like is it is it black people? Is it white people honestly if I have

1 (38m 42s):
to say and what I was worried about is this is going to sound really awful at it, but I don't think it's so much a matter of a color of a skin but more of a socio-economic level. Someone that's so desperate that things are so bad and people are losing their job and people are able to make their land and I think that's what makes me more nervous than could particular like black lives matter

3 (39m 15s):
or African-Americans or anything like that. I think

1 (39m 19s):
it's more

3 (39m 19s):
just the desperation of people so, you know the protest and stuff like that doesn't

1 (39m 28s):
Your math and gets more just

3 (39m 30s):
be

1 (39m 31s):
World in general. That scares me and the unrest and the uneasy feeling in anything

3 (39m 37s):
else. One more person Elsa lives in a small town in North Carolina growing up. No one around her at guns. She grew up in Kenya moved to the us over 30 years ago. But nightmare scenario that nearly everyone talked about the being woken up in the Night by Intruders asleep and helpless. It actually happened to Elsa couple years ago The Intruders fled before hurting anyone, but it was terrifying she thought about getting a gun but she didn't until this year when covid hit and when police file and set off protests around the country.

1 (40m 17s):
I worry Matt about the black lives matter I worry about The the crazy that are out there that are against the black lives matter. Movement that could Target someone like me just because of the color of my skin. For one I'm mixed. And my daughter is pale very very she's got her complexion. She's got Coke Asian complexion because my well my ex-husband was white Okay, and like I said, he's my ex-husband.

1 (41m 5s):
So my current husband is a black man. Yeah. So black woman white white child is an issue and Even worse I feel worse for my husband because there are a lot of times that he goes out with my daughter and my daughter is well aside from her nose. She could pass for white so, you know him walking out with her. I can see someone trying something crazy, you know.

3 (41m 37s):
Yeah,

1 (41m 39s):
I worry because in part because of the rhetoric that I see number one coming from the White House, it scares me and more and more as we're getting closer to the election. I'm more scared and I'm I've become so aware now everywhere I go I make sure I have my my weapon on me.

3 (42m 8s):
So

1 (42m 9s):
I never I came from a third world country now. Unexpected the environment

3 (42m 17s):
here

1 (42m 18s):
to be this

3 (42m 19s):
thick.

1 (42m 21s):
I feel so much tension and I fear so much. There's a lot of fear. You got the

3 (42m 31s):
extremists.

1 (42m 34s):
And you don't know who they

3 (42m 35s):
are. Don't know who they are,

1 (42m 40s):
but it's gotten a lot

3 (42m 43s):
worse during Trump. There are a lot of people that all

1 (42m 56s):
along have tried to blend

3 (42m 58s):
in right? Yeah hump came along and

1 (43m 4s):
a lot of the people that used to kind of try to blend. then and not Bring out their true feelings are now bringing out their true feelings and they feel like they can get away with it. Where's before? That wasn't there.

3 (43m 22s):
Do you feel like you can see things changing around? You people coming out kind

1 (43m 26s):
of yeah. Well when you start seeing the but you said it starts me the Confederate flag all over you all over around you that's a big time, you know. I saw one that was right on the side of the highway that didn't used to be there.

3 (43m 48s):
How does your husband feel about the decision to buy a gun? Really? Yeah,

1 (44m 7s):
I had to kind of ease it. In yeah, cuz you you was mad for it at all.

3 (44m 17s):
Why not

1 (44m 19s):
and he is completely against them. He's completely against gun. So I think he's kind of warming up to the fact that I have. A couple but but yeah, he's not comfortable put it that way even when I'm cleaning it and I try not to clean it when he's around because he's just not

3 (44m 44s):
comfortable. The last question I had for everyone now that people have their guns. Does it help do you feel better?

1 (44m 52s):
Nobody present a hundred

3 (44m 54s):
percent again? Here's Degen a who bought her gun when she saw people fighting over corn dog. I feel so much better. I could go to bed really at night. Yeah a hundred percent you are you have something to protect yourself. I mean I live alone but I still sleep with my bedroom door closed and locked and so really yeah. Yeah, I do just in case it's to give

1 (45m 18s):
me like a couple of extra seconds. I guess. That's how I see it. So now I'm fine

3 (45m 24s):
again. Here's Nancy from Wisconsin. Oh gosh. Yes, just having a next to the bed. Miss having an actual bed. Yeah, there's no doubt about it. Here's Shane who worried about Marauders and neo-nazis being powerless is a is not a good place to be it does make you feel more secure. Like if things really start going downhill, you're like we can handle this. I don't worry about that anymore, which is nice and finally Brian who had so much trouble finding a gun and finally picked one up the day I talk to him. Does it make you feel

1 (45m 58s):
safer? No, not yet. No. No, that is that's an interesting question because there's a gun sitting on my counter and I got ammo next to it. I don't know where to put

3 (46m 11s):
it. Oh, really? I don't

1 (46m 15s):
and I'll tell you I'm not blessed to say the ammo still in the ammo boxes on the guns Dome again case. I'm not in a hurry to like put the ammo in the what they call that thing the they call it something the animal goes minutes. Yeah, cuz it'll hold so many bullets in it. I forgot what that thing's called, but I'm just not in a hurry to put any bullets in it. I mean,

3 (46m 44s):
yeah, I mean, I honestly I really don't want one. Oh, you don't I mean I don't I just I almost feel like I just had to get one just saying did they kind of suck to have one? Yeah, I don't like it. I wish I didn't think I wish I didn't think I needed one. Ryan told me he grew up with guns, but they were for hunting and target practice for fun. He says nobody talked about self-defense. Nobody talks about shooting other people. But that's all anybody talks about today. That's one thing that unites us reunited and fear of each other.

3 (47m 35s):
Billy Sullivan as a producer in our program nor Gil helped her with additional reporting my lines in constant danger. I'm threatened by a stranger. I'm scared. They'll club and step me scared kidnappers will never I'm scared of Home intrusion and culture from the I'm scared of immigrants and teens and drooping pants. I'm at 3 second time's the charm. So maybe you've heard we're trying to hold an election this year with a possible record-breaking turnout. That is also during a pandemic which is let us into a vast territory of who knows if this is going to work reporter Johnny Kaufman has been admitted with the election staff and Fulton County Georgia.

3 (48m 22s):
That's the county with the most people in the state and with the city of Atlanta for Minds Jody's been given unusual access to the election. Staff the people who are responsible for handling the mail in ballots the voting machines and all that stuff. It was interested in seeing how things would go this November partly because they went so badly when they tried to hold the primary during the pandemic back in June. Here's Johnny Kaufman, the primary election here was a mess. Some voters asked for mail-in ballots, but never got them then people who wanted to vote in person waited and waited in line. People shouldn't have to wait three hours to vote. This is beyond ridiculous. One guy famously started his cellphone timer running. And by the time you voted it was 1:00 in the morning.

3 (49m 4s):
He'd been there almost eight hours and watched all of Curb Your Enthusiasm season 8 on his phone the front page of the Atlanta Journal-Constitution said complete meltdown. The state government was pretty clear who's fault. They thought all this was Brad Ravensburger. The Secretary of State said quote this always on Fulton County. He launched an investigation into the county and ask for a new law that would let him take over County election departments if needed the guy whose job he'd take over if he did that the man currently running the Fulton County elections department is Rick Baron, whatever secretary reference Burgers opinion is it's his opinion is his opinion alone and I disagree with them.

3 (49m 48s):
It's worth pointing out rations burger and the state government are Republican Fulton County and Atlanta are controlled by democrats Rick started working in elections after he quit his job as a middle manager at a bank. He told me he wanted to contribute to quote the betterment of man or something and quote. Rick has this quality that I think lots of people might like to see in the guy who runs their elections. He's measured and kind of boring in public like at press conferences. He'll just rattle off stat after stat, but during the primary beneath that public face Rick was full of dread. I just I just was constantly I've had this constant feeling of stress and that I was failing at my job and it didn't seem like anything we did.

3 (50m 43s):
Helped one of the things that went wrong in June is that Fulton had these new touchscreen voting computers that were imposed on them by the state and there wasn't enough time to train poll workers properly. But Rick in the Fulton staff say most of the troubles in the primary were really about the pandemic so many applications for mail-in ballots came in the email system crashed and then some of the staff got covid it slowed their operations, and they had to close the elections office to disinfect it. Then close to Primary Election Day dozens of poor workers quit scared about the virus polling places, like churches decided. They didn't want to be pulling places anymore. Tim Cummings is a manager at the warehouse for the county stores its election equipment.

3 (51m 25s):
He told me at the last minute The Fulton staff thought about just pitching a tent in the middle of an Atlanta Park get people to vote there. Yeah, I mean cause we were like like drowning would like Donna me and graphic installs. We got to find somewhere for this to be in the middle of all this my beloved longtime employee named Beverly Walker died. Everyone had to cope with that. She was 62 and worked in the department for 14 years. Even after she retired she would come back to help his attempt. Here's Jim Cummings again. I knew Beverly we what we all did what would because they are here every election, you know, there's a picture of her on the wall in my cubicle right now.

3 (52m 9s):
They went through a lot they work. Yeah, he was he was sick too worried about whether or not he was going to make it. We still had to get a job done. It wasn't easy and some days people just pissed but they came in they did the job. I don't really know how to say it's a really bad time to make any mistake because people right now are really unforgiving of anything. This is Karen ficklin. She runs the mail-in ballot operation for Fulton County. They don't care. What you're going through how you feeling what's happening with you or you know anything it's just like, you know, yeah, I guess it's just is what it is.

3 (52m 57s):
It's the Beast that we have to deal with right now in the lead up to the general election the county made a bunch of changes in hopes of avoiding another meltdown like the primary for starters 91 more polling places on Election Day with more training on the touchscreen voting computers. All the pull workers nonprofits gave them millions of dollars to help pay for all that. But the thing they're really hoping will make this different than last time is that they're trying to get people to vote now in person or in the mail Rick will tell any reporter who gets within two feet of him that he wants as many people as possible to vote before election day. 80% is his goal.

3 (53m 38s):
So a couple weeks ago early voting began in Georgia Rick and his team have been working nonstop through the weekends right up to the midnight before the pulls out. Island to make sure the machines would work without a hitch and the lines would move quickly when I saw Rick use often harried messy hair hopping between meetings on Monday morning October 12 the first day of early voting I went to the largest polling place in the county is actually the giant Arena where the Atlanta Hawks play the team offered it up after what happened during the primary. I wanted to see how things would go. Hey, how's it going? I'm trying to meet up with the Fulton County elections director. He's inside. Gate 2 when I get there around eight hundreds of people were already lined up and TV Crews were camped out at track down Rick near some closed concession stands.

3 (54m 27s):
Wow. You see the how many people are out there? Yeah, that's really like, hold on Rick takes a call talking through a black mask with vote written on it in bold white print he's more put together than usual clean-shaven wearing a dark blue suit. It's a big day then an election worker. Up to him people are trying to vote but in error keeps popping up session ID invalid they're working what like on all of them. They have over 300 voting computers at the arena. Apparently. None of them are working Rick hurries down some stairs past empty seats to the floor of the Arena where the voting computers are set up a Jumbotron overhead lines fill the hallways of the Arena Rick.

3 (55m 16s):
That's you. Yes, the first two people that came down both did not make it through. And so that's when we started people from coming. We gotta call him and maybe even as we speak Hawks employee comes up to Rick and his like what are we supposed to tell the people in line? From what I understand the wives are rapidly rapidly. We stop the presses. Rick is on the phone basically this whole time. I've seen him in. Situations like this before everyone around him is wound up and he sort of slows down then we've tested all these polpette. So I just don't understand how this is what the is going on.

3 (56m 2s):
He runs up the stairs breathing hard because of his mask looking for a county it employee. Then the CEO of the Hawks Steve koonin comes up to him. This is not the public relations wind coonan was hoping for when he offered up. His team's Arena. We should not have been Put in this position 1 hour where I have to stand in front of the press and tell them why people can't well we'll get it. We'll get it squared away here. These two guys right now are resetting whole path. So we're going to be able to get right do they have to do 60 year annually. Yeah, and that's not fast and they don't seem to be That's a voter that is Wrecking the phone staff.

3 (56m 47s):
Finally figure out a fix they have to update a file and reset. The iPads used to check people in the line start moving people can vote. It was a small win for Rick and the Fulton staff later the hawk CEO coonan came up to Rick again an hour made a big difference. Everyone's pumped up. Except for wreck listen to this exchange coonans beaming and Rick is like this was awful. Well, I will say our recovery actually was faster than itself. Well, it was it just felt like a nightmare night. I mean Why don't you just go proactively talk to the Press chocolate on we do this?

3 (57m 32s):
Yeah, that would be I think it would be more thing. We can do everybody ready. All right. Well, good morning. I'm Rob pits. I'm chairman of the Board of Commissioners of Fulton County. I'm John hitz tells the reporters and TV cameras how great things are going. Then Rick gets the job of explaining what went wrong. I need you. I don't know the cause of it yet. There's something with the database on on the pole pads that was here. So we apologize to all the voters and to to the Hawks and mr. Kuhn afterward Rick walks through the floor of the arena and pauses just for a moment. It's Serene watching the people quietly boat.

3 (58m 13s):
Then he heads to his car. It's around noon, but he seems tired. I was feeling like so comfortable and I'm watching people coming in streaming into the building. I was like, I was excited thought. Oh, wow. This is gonna be so good. And that what a morning. But I don't understand me. Some people are complaining that wow. This is I heard somebody say we've got June all over again this morning at these at these early voting sites and it's like we got 30 32 sites open the first in June it was five.

3 (59m 1s):
There were snags in those first days lines did get long sometimes but Rick felt like things were under control. But Tuesday night, I got an email from Rick's assistant with some scary news one of the election staff tested positive for the virus just like during the primary. I called Rick the next day by then even more people had tested positive.

1 (59m 21s):
I'm doing a press conference at to I don't know if you've got it but there's no I've got 13 infections at the warehouse.

3 (59m 29s):
The warehouse is where the county keeps all the printers and voting computers. They've always been worried about the virus spreading there because it's so full of equipment and it's hard to Stacy. Feet apart people do wear masks and one manager even had a barrier in her office. So people couldn't get close, but she still got sick. I still want anybody die out of this or because you know be one of those long haulers where they're just sick. Forever, you know, hopefully they'll get over it quick, but we got a couple guys that are sick that are seniors. I don't know, you know, there's it's kind of a in this going to end up being like a national Story Probably.

3 (1h 0m 14s):
You got this mini and I'll actions warehouse. This isn't like one or two. This is a full-blown outbreak. I Monday two days later the total was 23 cases at least one person was in the hospital all the workers at the warehouse were sent home except for a few who hadn't tested positive.

1 (1h 0m 36s):
I'm at the warehouse. I'm beautiful minute. Hold on for a second. I got a call come

3 (1h 0m 45s):
I called Tim Cummings one night. He's a manager at the warehouse who you heard earlier. Are you are you worried about getting sick?

1 (1h 0m 54s):
Yeah, I would have been worried about getting sick since March. You know like a lot of my Crews scared but we come in we do what we gotta do, you know worry about making sure this election happen successfully. So we're doing everything we can to get it done.

3 (1h 1m 12s):
What are you? What are you most worried about right now in terms of pulling off the

1 (1h 1m 16s):
election? Getting it all done in time. It's like right now my one reason. I stay so late. I'm like if I can make everything that they need to do the LNA and program the machines.

3 (1h 1m 29s):
He's talking about getting the voting computers all ready for testing and then delivered to polling places by election day

1 (1h 1m 35s):
if I can get all that prepared before something happened before I before I test positive or whatever everything will be fine. Cause somebody else can step in at that point My worry is not In a complete hoping I can hold out to everybody else comes back or somebody gets back

3 (1h 1m 58s):
all over the country. People are freaking out about the election worried about hacking violence and intimidation the supposed voter fraud President Trump keeps talking about but none of that has been a big problem for Rick in the Fulton staff their problem something bigger. Yeah, the virus has been the disruption. Yeah, I heard somebody yesterday say I've lived through, you know, the Decades of the 60s 70s 80s 90s aughts and the and the teams and now I've also lived through every month of 2020, you know psych it's almost like its own decade in itself. And yeah, I mean, it's been a weirdest year of my life the county hired some outside help Rick says the plan right now is just for everyone to work.

3 (1h 2m 46s):
really long days Tony Coffman is reported with Atlantis public radio station. WABE is reporting at the Fulton County elections department is possible. Thanks to the Nieman foundation for journalism and the Abrams Foundation as I'm recording this the total number of election workers in Fulton County that's tested positive for covid is 25 two people are in the ICU some others have returned to work.

3 (1h 3m 39s):
The program has produced today by Robin semyon and Susan Burton people put a program together today include did matter one me Ben Calhoun didn't Shivers Sean Coal Hill real concern Guild Damien grave Michelle Harris on A Jaffe Waltz efteling bikini clean his seat. He's still Nelson Catherine Romano. Really Sullivan Christopher Sir Topham Hatt, Tierney. Julie would have And Diane were managing editor Sarah of the robbing our senior editors David kestenbaum. Our executive editor is manual Berry special thanks to Chris hacks ulema hurt mattei Hamas the killer Robertson in a Worman John Kerry Geneva Sullivan and Redstone Firearms or Abramson and Catherine Wells our website This American Life dot-org This American Life is delivered to public radio stations by PRX the public radio exchange sport for This American Life comes from dr.

3 (1h 4m 22s):
Death season 2 which tells the incredible true story of what happened when the FBI? Uncovered a scam where Michigan doctor had poisoned over 500 patients drugs. They didn't need to treat diseases. They didn't have dr. Death season 2 is available on Apple podcast from Sitka salmon chairs community supported fishery delivering seasonal shares of traceable Wild Alaska Seafood meat their Fleet access recipes and order at Sitka salmon shares.com use code tal for special discount. Thanks, as always for programs co-founder mystery 98, you know, there's a A party this week dress for Halloween is Michael J fox and Teen Wolf when he got there he realized it was a fundraising Gala Black Tie under and like Twitter sweat pants and a hoodie, you know wearing a mask and Ira Glass back next week with more stories This American Life.