1 (1s):
A quick warning. There are curse

3 (2s):
words that are unbeaten today's episode of the show. If you prefer a beat version, you can find that at our website This American Life dot-org. From WBZ Chicago This American Life. I'm gonna glass raise your hands. If you are in

1 (18s):
Georgia ready to start to imbalance and fight for every vote

3 (23s):
1 p.m. Wednesday the day after the election Democrat volunteer Kim Hood Woods of training on Zoom for 500 other Democrat volunteers are going to go out and cure ballots in Georgia sure means tracking down voters whose mail in ballots had a problem the signature whatever and they've been rejected so they don't count. Hearing is the word they use for fixing the ballots. In other words. You hear a lot rescuing

1 (47s):
live in this country our own,

3 (49s):
Georgia right now. Normally, this is a super polished training but it is I have not been to sleep. You can see how they could feel like all of this could come down to them in Georgia. It was so close. So close all week between the president and Joe Biden had nearly five million votes cast times the candidates would just Eleven Hundred votes apart and the trainer's explain to the group that there are over 5,000 votes out there that they can cure mail-in ballots and provisional ballots. So after training people found out get on phones knock on doors

1 (1m 29s):
Hi, here's rubber

3 (1m 31s):
foam covers a college. The woman says, it's Wednesday night in Atlanta suburbs Marlo cured and his volunteers stopped by to find

1 (1m 37s):
Trevor. Okay, you give up on a rejected absentee ballot with and so we're just tracking down and seeing it's a group resolve their

3 (1m 46s):
deserts not counted woman at the door says,

1 (1m 49s):
well, it's not over yet. He has until Friday at 6:00. Who cares?

3 (1m 54s):
Miley gives her a packet of materials and explains. He basically just has to sign an affidavit and photograph that and his photo ID and email them into the county back in the car and Marla describes how she ended up deciding to volunteer for this after seeing President Trump wins. So many voters state after State just the night before an election

1 (2m 12s):
night, you know a lot of women of color. this morning Even when we realize we're like we think mine is going to pull this out. We believe this but my God, it should have been this close. And what does that say? And there, you know, there's a lot of anger to get out about that and a lot of those, you know women who are white allies. Also, you know, it's just like, you know, we were just in a hard to realize we never thought it would

3 (2m 41s):
be

1 (2m 44s):
this close. But by the time you know noon and 1 p.m. Came around it's like, okay, we'll come back to that later. We we got to get these boat.

3 (2m 58s):
It's tedious work volunteer named Erica Mayer who's doing this by phone? Tell me that inner three-hour shift on Wednesday to reach maybe one person for every ten calls. She made it's definitely mostly voicemails. How many votes did you fix thighs in three? Hours. Yeah, it's not a very big return on investment. Like how do you feel about that Glick? Does it feel like just a drop in the ocean? Do you feel like does it feel important? I kind of swing back and forth on a pendulum of political despair, you know, sometimes it feels like especially if I have a successful conversation with a voter then you're like, yes, that was so great.

3 (3m 41s):
Then you kind of ride that high for a little while but When I look at the clock and see how much time all these calls have taken and this yeah, as you say A Drop in the Ocean, so there's a big Zoom training the Democrats did in Georgia today for volunteers curing votes and and during the training. They said that before you help the voter be sure the voter is voting for the Democrats. What were you told that in your training? Nah, I don't recall hearing that but I do know that in our script one of the first questions is where You supporting Democrats on your ballot. And if they say no you supposed to hang up. Thank them for their time and hang up.

3 (4m 21s):
Yeah, we would you be able to do it. You know, I mean, it's like, you know, it's really there's no pretense that this is about democracy and Counting every ballot. As you do know is that that point is just about winning. I mean if somebody said, you know, I voted for Trump, but I'm really disappointed that my vote isn't going to count. I couldn't sleep at night if I had if I knew that I had suppressed their vote, see what Open yeah, yeah, we can't say we want it and then not do it. Have you had to do that? Well, I had one person yell at me Trump 2020 and then hang up. So I didn't have to do it later program this week with States meticulously trying to count every ballot while crowd show up demanding that they either stop counting the ballots or continue counting the ballots egged on by the president going on TV and straight up lying about what is happening in the rooms where the votes Being counted we have stories of people all over the country living through this weird.

3 (5m 20s):
I don't know what to call it. Gravity Lewis limbo of uncertainty that we have all been floating through since Tuesday speaking for myself checking the news compulsively The Washington Post called the day after the election this Wednesday a hump day for the ages all of us wondering how is this going to end our fellow citizens going through that stay with us? Like one Virginia. So my Giglio is a reporter has been following militia groups for the last year and interviewing the man in them including off the guys who've been bracing for civil war over the last few weeks and President Trump repeatedly, encouraged his supporters to go to polling stations and quote watch very carefully on Election Day Mike.

3 (6m 7s):
Wondered if any of these groups and those guys he knew would heed the call. All here's Mike when I called Joe Clem the leader of a militia in Virginia called The Ridge Runners. He told me that's exactly what they were getting ready to do. So, I joined them for a pre-election training session in the Appalachian Mountains one chilly Saturday morning, three weeks ago, Joe wouldn't tell me the location over the phone. So I met him in about a dozen other guys in camo at a McDonald's and followed them to a large farm. They start the day standing at attention behind an abandoned building but they're AR-15s. Oh Ray rest. Morning gents glad to see you all here. Thank you all for coming out just real quick and we're gonna go over a couple things today that's job.

3 (6m 51s):
He's a muscular 29 year old who looks exactly like the former Marine Sergeant. He tells me he is just want to kind of bring this all the Forefront of all of your minds with the election on the way. We need to stay vigilant right now. We're all I've been collaborating with a lot of the other group commanders in the area. Each group is going to have a That number of polling sites that we're going to be responsible for each polling site is going to have to hopefully three Greymon operating at that site great men with that means men in plain clothes trying to blend into the crowd at the polling stations. Joe tells me what they're looking for is groups like black lives matter and antifa who they believe could disrupt the election intimidate voters or commit fraud they get this new President Trump and right-wing media have been raising these fears.

3 (7m 41s):
Without evidence for months everyone enjoys militia is white the question of whether militias are synonymous with white nationalist always comes up with groups like this and they almost always reject that label all the places that you imagine might be hot spots on Election Day are nearby cities with lots of people of color, but he and his members insist. They're not racist. Before January when Joe started the group most of these guys didn't know each other Joe's one of the most intense people. I've met in the militias and when he talks people tend to snap to attention. He tells me stories about fighting as a Black Ops Soldier losing friends and killing enemies. I checked with the Marines and they tell me they have no record of a service Joe claims as because it's classified when I ask people what drew them to the group they talk about Joe his Charisma.

3 (8m 27s):
Here's a member called Savage. I went to a muster in with feel for group and that group just basically wanted to stand around and talk. And and there's nothing wrong with that, but don't call yourself a militia if you just want to stand around and talk politics. Jones group when he come up and delivered his thing they talked about training and that's I mean who don't want to get out and shoot rounds down range for fun. You know who doesn't want to train and be a part of some lot of the day seems like the guys are just here to bond and have fun Jolie's the men through six hours of drills starting with PT, then moving to shooting positions and room-clearing so its initial contact so contact front 200 meters.

3 (9m 17s):
Bang bang bang bang bang thank moving move the running a drill here where the idea is that they learn how to cover each other right lovely. When I spend time with these groups, I'm always wondering how seriously you take the idea that they might really engage in violence on the one hand to give each other nicknames that meet each other on the back and saying bang but at the same time they really do believe the country is in danger that they might need to turn their guns and their fellow citizens one day. And they buy into all the unsupported claims Trump makes about liberals bent on Election fraud and violence in the need to stop them and they think they're the ones to do it nearly all the militiamen. I've spoken to this year believe that Democrats committed massive voter fraud in 2016, and they've been doing it again this year with mail-in ballots and early voting George worried.

3 (10m 5s):
The 2020 election could be stolen. Did it matter to you that Trump said that Well, yeah, of course I did because if you know considering all the access to information that he has that we don't if he's dropping these little tidbits. There's something that people like me need to pay attention to so you think that he's basing that on real information I do you think it's possible that he's playing politics. Um, I don't I don't think so. He seems like more of a straightforward kind of guy. I think that he's not the type of person to play politics. Sometimes I wish the people in these moisture groups can hear how much they sound like people.

3 (10m 47s):
I've covered in countries that have come undone. I spent a lot of time niche in Ukraine in early 2013 with the pro-russian activists who eventually plunges region into a war. They would go on social media and tune into Russian propaganda and convince themselves with your countrymen were out to destroy them. They tell me that they as of Nazis were coming from Kiev to kill them. I was struck by the way, people had to convince themselves that the other side was absolutely out to get them was. Under construction in order to take that step into real violence. It's not that I think that we're having Ukraine will happen in America the talk of violence can become self-fulfilling prophecy. So the stakes for you are they are the steaks like just an election like, you know, if Trump loses, okay, maybe we can win again and for years like know I really believe that anybody who gets in after Trump if you know, they're liberal.

3 (11m 39s):
It's going to be the down. Fall of America for sure, you know this election is going to be some sort of torn a turning point for good or bad. It's going to be a turning point. Let's roll out. Call it in it's Tuesday Morning election day. Jones is guys are split between two pickup trucks. I'm in the backseat of Joe's everyone but me is dressed in battle gear and they're armed to the teeth Joe was wearing a bulletproof vest with four or five ammo clip strapped to it and a pistol in a holster in the passenger seat Matt like you guy in his 30s has a big knife strapped to his own body armor in addition to all the ammo clips and he's wearing a pair of noise-cancelling headphones with skulls on them.

3 (12m 24s):
Both of them have loaded AR-15 their laps. The plan is to do as the president suggested drive to every polling station in their County in Virginia and look for problems. Joe leads the way so we're just looking for any signs of you know, people, you know up to no good possibly trying to deter people or intimidate anybody had asked earlier what kind of people they were looking for. Joe said thugs when I asked what that meant. He said people from black lives matter from antifa. It wasn't sure how he'd know whether a person was a member of a group like that or whether they're even that many of them. Um is part of the country. Well, first of all antifa would be dressed in all black probably BLM would be you know, just they will have all kinds of BLM sign signage and things like that.

3 (13m 7s):
We pull up to a polling station sit in a parking lot just out there in the open. There are people Milling around and then a bunch of guys with guns just watching them and change location to are right over here by that white vehicle and the ethnic shelter. Yeah, I was just thinking that sounds good. Go ahead and move Doug. The grey man gets ready to go in. He's in his 40s with a beard. He also has an easy demeanour which is probably the reason they picked him for the job. He's wearing jeans the fleece and sunglasses and you'd have to look closely to notice that there's a wire running down from the back of his hat which is connected to a radio so he can be in touch with the guys.

3 (13m 47s):
We hang back in the pickup while Doug goes in after a few minutes. He casually walks back to us. So, what would you see? They're just people talking there's probably 40 voters in there more. People showing up all the time. Everybody was in a good mood cheerful just just looked around come back out by the 360 sweep of the building outside of the building nothing at all. That was suspicious nothing. No, and we're back on the road. But Jolene the way it pretty much every polling station when dog walks in this is how it goes howdy howdy. How are ya I've already voted earlier today. I've just I just did here checking everything out. Thank you.

3 (14m 28s):
Most of the day's driving driving and waiting waiting and driving. It's a big County spread across winding Mountain Roads. We drop in and out of cell service. Sometimes Joe gets turned around. When is Google Maps goes on the fritz Matt. The guy in the passenger seat is good at filling the idle time. He's ready to sound off on just about anything now. I don't know if y'all watch The Sopranos, but you know Tony she was the I mean the definition of narcissus talks about cars if I had to pick one. Also car I would probably go either 69 Charger R/T for the 71 Hemi Cuda the good old days like we used to argue about like football talk shit about sport people don't even do that anymore.

3 (15m 16s):
You know, they're arguing about this that or whatever because love handles even the skinny as I am like freaking want to go away. You know, I've been working out like crazy I eat right? Right. No do a lot of sugar and stuff like that, but The confrontation they stood up for never happens. We don't see antifa were black lives matter or anyone blocking the polls or intimidating voters or committing fraud at our last stop. We do see someone lingering outside a polling station. I walk up to the entrance with Doug and see a woman sitting nearby. She's an older white woman with a bag that has a blue sticker for Mark Warner and Democratic senator, Doug walks right buyer with polite hello, and then we're inside having another awkward conversation with the poll workers.

3 (16m 2s):
Nice to meet you. Yeah, I'm pretty good turnout today. Good deal. Yes, ma'am. Absolutely. When we walked back outside the woman still there and I noticed her eyeing Doug little suspicious that he walked in and out so quickly. She asked him if he needs help. I've already voted. I was just talking to some people. Dog goes back to the car and I decided to go and talk with a woman. She's Janet Tate a die-hard local Democrat. She says she comes here every election to hand out campaign literature. She's allowed to do that. Just outside the white line on the pavement like a lot of people Jenna had been anxious about being out on Election Day.

3 (16m 46s):
I'm pleasantly surprised my daughter was worried about me a little bit, but I'm like I'm old and I just I think it's important to mention that I saw her watching Doug, but it was a little odd when he comes kind of zooming in and out, but it was nice. This group is a militia group actually a pretty nice that they were nice Joe and the heavily armed guys in the car are probably exactly the kind of people her daughter was worried about but Janet tells me she's not going to be intimidated. I'm like, what are they gonna do? Shoot me my daughter really was worried. Like don't do it. She thought maybe a group like that would she just didn't know what to think so but I like working.

3 (17m 26s):
I don't know. I'm not going to live in a country that I feel uncomfortable going to my polling place and doing normal Democratic things. It's like do I could bring my bear spray? You know, it just seems ridiculous. I head back to the truck. I tell Joe that the woman I was talking to his local Democrat and then she told me Doug seemed like a nice guy. He's really struck by that. You don't have the truck still in this full battle gear. Suddenly determined to meet her. I really appreciate you being out here and helping these people that are out here and I'm an obviously we're like two opposite sides, but I think it's great that people who have differing views can be civil and just get along. You know, I mean, I've been doing this since 2007.

3 (18m 8s):
Yeah, and well, there's usually if Jazz intimidated by Joe with his body armor and ammo clips and Pistol. She doesn't show it. Well, yeah, we have been kind of patrolling around all day. So I I think it's a little excessive they talked for a few minutes. He's so big but yeah just smiles and looks him in the eyes. He even picks an argument with him that the Electoral College at the end. They do a little high five. We're gonna head out of here. You enjoy the rest of your night and Joe gets back to the car I know is that he's energized by the encounter. It was the only time the day I saw him drop his Warrior persona. Great day and tells me not long afterward.

3 (18m 54s):
The guys packed it up and went home. They found no evidence of fraud no intimidation or disruption. They never got a chance to protect the vote or Engage The Enemy. It was a relief to see that this was totally fine with them. The next day I called Joe it was Wednesday. The news was moving towards a Biden Victory and President Trump was already crying fraud Joe was to up

1 (19m 16s):
till right now. I'm not very happy with what I'm saying. Honestly. I think that the other side is trying to introduce false balance in the system and then they're just going to try to rig it and make it so that Biden

3 (19m 28s):
wins what makes you think that they're doing that

1 (19m 31s):
where is some Fishy stuff going on up there in Michigan and a couple other places that they should have already called for Trump, but they

3 (19m 41s):
haven't the president has been pushing unsubstantiated claims of election rigging you Michigan other crucial States. So if it ends up being that Biden is declared the winner, what do you think there could be a way that you would just say? Yeah, that's probably what happened and believe it

1 (19m 58s):
absolutely

3 (19m 58s):
not no chance.

1 (20m 1s):
Yeah. No chance. From everything that we saw an experience leading up to the election. There's no way that Trump would lose a fair election. There's no way

3 (20m 13s):
your own experience yesterday was that you guys checked on the polling stations and everything was running smoothly and you didn't see any

1 (20m 20s):
fraud. No, honestly because you know that the fact that people were able to go and you know cast their vote, you know unimpeded doesn't really have anything to do with What goes on with those ballots and stuff, you know after the people go and cast

3 (20m 39s):
them Joe tells me he sure that if Biden wins some kind of violence is inevitable. He says he'll end up fighting someone black lives matter antifa. He's not sure what if it's some point Trump's were to concede and say he he accepts the find was the president like could he change her mind? Absolutely not. Mike Giglio he wrote about his experience is covering Civil Wars overseas in his book shatter the Nations. at to New York and Germany so four years ago the day after Donald Trump won that election reporter Stephanie foom at to army officers at the diner to talk to them about the new boss.

3 (21m 28s):
Those guys are in the same unit close friends, but they did not agree on politics at all. Why do you like each other? I don't know. Why do we like each other we disagree on almost everything? You know, why because I know that he'll have my back inhale and I'll have his regardless of what he believes all those ill-founded. Most of it is awesome. I give my life form. I'd say my own life. No, you know either was worried. At the time they went back and forth about what they thought the next four years are going to be like the President Trump is commander-in-chief whether it meant they were more likely to be deployed to a conflict Zone how it would affect morale and the possibility that Donald Trump might start a nuclear war.

3 (22m 12s):
They'll be fine. It's not that he's not a drop a nuke some people. I don't know. I think he's incredibly uneducated about it. So here's the thing about the codes if people don't realize people it's not like he has like a piece of paper in his pocket. That's like, oh here's the nuclear codes. It doesn't work that way. What? Like President Trump said the officer with the nuclear football would prevent Donald Trump from random. We nuking somebody Hillary Clinton supporter was not so sure. Anyway Stephanie checked in with the two of them again earlier this week. One of them's in the states one of them stationed in Germany. The biggest thing that happened to these guys in the last four years actually had nothing to do with Trump. They both had babies. This is actually better. I can hear you guys pretty good.

3 (22m 53s):
So I'm late somebody decided to take off their diaper and chew on it. So so we were dealing with that and now we're terrible parents these crying hysterically because how dare we not let him eat his own feces. So God you reminds me of you so much already. Don't worry. Your daughter's not too far behind Tom. These aren't their real names but Chet and Tom voted exactly how I expected them to win this election Tom voted for Biden met again voted for Trump, but in 2016 Chet have been a really hardcore true. The Border you really wanted an outsider, but now that the outsiders an Insider, he feels more agnostic and maybe a little part of his indifference is because of Trumps role as their boss like the time Trump made the comment saying why are we having all these people from shithole countries coming here can't wasn't crazy about that.

3 (23m 49s):
Neither was Tom that binds the porter who is deployed in Africa when that went down as comments about shithole countries definitely impacted my job. The US military has training exercises across the world with Partners.

1 (24m 3s):
I happen to be in a position at a time where I was running a group of teams that were in African countries. And as you're sitting there planning for these training events these comments come out and it's just you know, like your partners are kind of like is this what you guys think about us

3 (24m 21s):
like so it's what did you have to tell

1 (24m 24s):
them? basically talk to really you know, like that doesn't represent us military's position on our Partnerships and honestly, like

3 (24m 36s):
sometimes it comes down just added like

1 (24m 38s):
bullshitting and having like friendly relations with folks

3 (24m 41s):
and I've had similar experiences to I'm a trump supporter, right Maga 2020. But yes, it does make your job more difficult. Like I'm not going to defend the fact that when he says something it's like okay, it's time to brace. They weren't totally unhappy with his performance both chat and Tom agreed that trumps. Strongman personality did come in handy. Sometimes they liked that he engage with North Korea and supported the assassination of Ronnie and general qasem soleimani, but the thing that's affected the most during the last four years is the same. I think we've all dealt with the thing. That isn't going to magically go away. No matter who wins. I feel like the thing that's very clear to me is that it really feels like there are two Americas right now.

3 (25m 26s):
Yeah. Sure. Does it feel that way in the military? Yes. Oh, yeah, that's Chet. I have colleagues on both sides and it's awkward like you used to talk about it more and now people like don't want to talk about politics at all. Yeah, like when I when I went to To Iraq in 2008. It was like people be like I'm voting for Obama or people are going to vote for McCain but there was there wasn't any like charged racism attached to it. Like you weren't a racist if you voted for McCain you could talk about it and nobody would get offended and like now it's just like, you know, like apparently I'm a supremacist because I vote for Trump According to some people, you know, I mean, so I'm just very much like whatever man like I'm voting for what I want to vote for.

3 (26m 12s):
You can do the same. I don't want to talk about it, you know. One of the moments that bugs check the most is from his last deployment one of his friends was a black woman who absolutely hated Trump and she hated all of the white Trump supporting soldiers around her to she did hang out with chat. He thinks it's because he's Asian American and it just put me in an awkward position all the time and I would always get asked by both sides. Like why are you hanging out with them? And I'd be like really man. Like we're on the same team like who cares Tom agrees. He says that in the Military the mindset should be that there's an enemy and it's out there hiding in a cave in Afghanistan somewhere not in the next aisle at the

1 (26m 55s):
Stop & Shop when I was watching the stuff on the news with the black lives matter protests and National Guard troops are getting called in like I kept thinking like that is the worst fucking job. I would never ever want to do that. Right? Like do you know these are people from your community and you're getting called in to do something like no one in the military wants to do this, you know. Unless again, like when it comes to emergency situation, I think everybody's all for

3 (27m 21s):
volunteering to do that and the case of say a hurricane,

1 (27m 24s):
but nobody wants to like go in and try and be a

3 (27m 26s):
policeman that's not our job. No. No, I follow like some military Instagrams and one of them is like I killed people in Afghanistan Now kill these people today, you know, those people are full of shit idiots. Most of those people probably fail their psych exam. A lot of international relationships have been tested by the Trump presidency, but not 10 Tom's you guys are still friends.

1 (27m 57s):
Yeah, I mean, but it totally honest that's because we have a toxic friendship where we just make

3 (28m 2s):
fun of each other the whole time. So this is just one more thing again, we can do. Yeah, we hated each other long before Trump even decided to run for president. So I mean, we just, you know built on top of that hatred now we have this hate Mountain over the Friendship Bridge. It's really a beautiful thing. Okay, Tom says that the military creates an environment where people have to trust and communicate with each other. Even if you don't like each other which is not an attitude America seems to have these days about our democracy. I talked to them Wednesday the day after the election Tom said he'd be pretty horrified of trump one tattoo Shrugged if I didn't wins. He said basically whatever both said they'd respect either outcome.

3 (28m 51s):
Stephanie who choose to be a producer on our programs now writing a memoir about healing from complex PTSD coming up somebody who thought his life is going to change a lot depending on who becomes president the now it's not so clear that's in a minute. Just got big radio when our program continues support for This American Life comes from better help online counseling better help offers licensed counselors who specialize in issues including depression and anxiety as well as relationships trauma anger and more you can connect privately with a counselor through text chat phone or video calls and you'll get help on your own time at your own pace and at an affordable rate for a special offer visit better help.com tal that's better help.com Tal this american guy from Ira Glass.

3 (29m 45s):
Today's program squeaker. I don't know if I should admit you how many minutes today we spent arguing over whether to call the episode of like tile dysfunction squeaker was are classy choice. Anyway, I show this week is stories from all over about this strange week. We've all just live through waiting for election results. And of course for some people the outcome of the presidential election might have a very direct effect on them take for instance. The people living in the tent camp is just over the border from Texas and Morris Mexico a camp filled with people seeking asylum in the United States who have been sent there and the president's remain in Mexico policy on Election night. They held a vigil all night long until 5:00 in the morning.

3 (30m 28s):
Apparently the pastor's put this together tried to keep it a political stick with prayers and songs. But by the end of the vigil in the early morning hours the last Pastor who took the stage said the thing that apparently lots of them have been thinking all night. He said I hope Joe Biden winds. And somebody was there said it was like everybody finally had a chance to let out their feelings. They cheered they danced. They've heard Joe Biden promised to reform immigration his first hundred days in office. Which brings us to act 3 act 3 Louisiana Ben Calhoun has this story of somebody else who's not from this country. He's been following the election as closely as he can Jonathan who was in an ice Detention Center in Louisiana told me that this year's presidential race actually solve the problem in the detention centers.

3 (31m 16s):
He's been in he's been moved around to a few Jonathan told me the recurring problem was with the TVs. Take the ice Detention Center. I called him in there was this small triangular room? He said

1 (31m 29s):
there is a small charge tomorrow triangle room attached to the Dom that we want to watch TV get into that room and watch TV

3 (31m 38s):
all the problem with the Detention Center TVs. Well, it's sort of the same with any TV in America people can't agree what to watch. Should we watch English TV? Julian Spanish TV. She's it'll be time for news today be time for music should It's time for football. Should there be time for for for fun program? So it's all cause of conflict that problem. Jonathan told me during the 18 months. He's been in ice detention one of the few times. This wasn't an issue. Like at all was the presidential debates this fall everyone. Jonathan said wanted to see those. I called Jonathan the week before the election because I wanted to talk to someone in our immigration system whose case could potentially be affected by it.

3 (32m 22s):
I wondered how the election Look from where they were. Jonathan said he talked to other detainees about the election we've been talking to guards to most of them. He told me we're buying supporters. But yeah, lots of people were wondering how the election might change their cases including him. Jonathan's 30s from Cameroon, and he came to the u.s. In 2019 seeking Asylum. He's been stuck in detention ever since

1 (32m 50s):
I think all the boys down to the musician of the current government So based on the Information on what I'm seeing but not from my own personal point of view if if Biden could win Iowa, hopefully I think will be better

3 (33m 6s):
under President Trump Asylum Seekers. Like Jonathan are getting deported even ones with strong evidence that their political refugees will be tortured or killed if they return to their home countries Jonathan I should tell you that is not his real name. I'm calling him that because he has family back in Cameroon and He has good reason to worry about their safety. Jonathan is part of an English-speaking minority that's been persecuted by cameroon's french-speaking majority and its longtime autocratic president Paul biya that whole situation has gotten more and more violent. Jonathan wasn't part of that. He was a businessman a grocery wholesaler bought stuff from Farmers to sell in town.

3 (33m 50s):
He started the business to support his mom after his dad died. Basically Jonathan got caught in the wrong place at the wrong time. He was in his Barbershop when it got raided by soldiers. He and 14 others got thrown in jail, and they were beaten and tortured for nearly a month. At one point a few men were taken out and they never came back and the soldier told the rest of them. They were all going to get killed. Then one day a warning this is pretty graphic one day an officer took Jonathan and one other man at gunpoint and he led them outside to a truck. He told them to clean it up Jonathan looked inside it

1 (34m 30s):
you see stains of blood stains of blood which likable human beings are human beings and and charged particles.

3 (34m 38s):
Johnston says there was blood all over the inside particles of Flesh. He started to clean and then at some point he noticed that the soldier was distracted and talking to someone

1 (34m 51s):
on a hot the window open to opportunity. I said, I will rather kill why I'm trying to save my life or until stay on the

3 (34m 59s):
kill. Jonathan says he slipped around the corner of the building and then he ran through a cornfield. He just kept running eventually. He got to a cousin's house and then eventually escaped to Ecuador. I just want to say Jonathan's accountable these details. It's all well supported but documents and photos and legal affidavits among the documents. There's a warrant for Jonathan's arrest for quote terrorism secession and Insurrection. Jonathan told me if the government gets its hands on him chances. He'll be killed a hundred percent. That's what he said a hundred percent.

3 (35m 41s):
Jonathan's attorney told me under a different presidential Administration than President Trump's he thinks his Asylum case would have a much better shot. So after escaping Jonathan went through nine countries at some point someone gave Jonathan a piece of advice that would end up being really important this had rip your passport up. It'll make it harder for anyone to send you back to Cameroon. So Jonathan did that In the end he made it to the US you made it into ice custody. I asked Jonathan why he didn't seek asylum in any of the other nine countries and he told me it was simple. He didn't know enough about any of those other countries to know if they would protect him or if they'd send him back

1 (36m 23s):
or I know people from what I know about United cells. I know like a country that come to take your human right? That's what best thing that I know about that. I knew before coming days the country that protects human rights it What if a country that I believe will help protect me? I was taking the option because all I need was just protection it is yeah, or I knew was just

3 (36m 45s):
protection. A judge ordered Jonathan to be deported the only reason he and his lawyer thought he hadn't been is because Jonathan had taken that advice and destroyed his passport back in Panama. Four months ice officers have been asking Jonathan to sign this document that food. Apparently let them send him back to Cameroon. Jonathan has been refusing telling them that he'll be tortured and killed. Ice in responds told Jonathan they would hold him in indefinite detention until he signed and ice for their part, but they started leaning on Jonathan harder and harder you have to sign this recently.

3 (37m 31s):
He told me that situation came to a head when an ice agent he knew let him into a room.

1 (37m 37s):
He said he's not going to listen to anything for me. His job is a me to sign this and point it to process me to tell me about for my country

3 (37m 46s):
Jonathan. On his knees and begged that he'd be killed. The officer wasn't hearing it. He said he needed a picture of Jonathan sign language. So he repeated his job is for me to

1 (37m 57s):
sign this thing and for me to take their photo, so he even tried to grab my hand for the other person to take a photo photo of me. So I was bleeding. I cry. I knelt down the issue not with this to me.

3 (38m 9s):
He grabbed your hand.

1 (38m 11s):
Got to try to grab my own to take a

3 (38m 13s):
photo all this only stopped. Jonathan says When a female officer opened the door and asked what was going on, she called the other officers over to her and they talked where Jonathan couldn't really hear them. Then he was allowed to go call this lawyer. After Jonathan and I talked we agreed that he would call me the day after the election at 5 p.m. I wanted to hear his reaction to whatever results are non results. We'd have by then but that never happened because the morning after the election when everyone was waking up to a map with eight states still suspended in Gray.

3 (38m 55s):
I got a voicemail from Jonathan's lawyer. Yeah hybrid fruit. They've moved

1 (38m 59s):
him somewhere. I don't know where I've no idea where I can't get ahold of anybody. I for at the correctional center. Anyway, I'm going to be busy trying to find him. I'll talk to you later. Bye.

3 (39m 16s):
Ruth Hargrove Jonathan's lawyer couldn't find him. She'd woken up the morning after the election to see four missed calls on her phone.

1 (39m 25s):
It's like this morning at like 5 o'clock in the morning, but I don't know. I don't know why I missed it. But then whose aunt called me and said he was being moved

3 (39m 32s):
and we still made by day before election day Jonathan told her about this unusual incident where I sit taken a man to identify his belongings at a property room and they asked about his van sir. Which he's got an aunt in Maryland has offered to take him in. Will he tries to get Asylum Jonathan told Groove. He was hopeful that that's what was up the he was finally getting out Ruth was suspicious. She got in this email from an activist group about a deportation flight to Cameroon on November 10th. He'd been getting increasingly nervous that Jonathan might get put on it and so that morning after the election when Jonathan was just removed from the, Louisiana.

3 (40m 16s):
He and a Detention Center Ruth started scrambling. Just trying to figure out where exactly he was where he was going when we talk to you is still reeling. Okay, so and I just found out I

1 (40m 27s):
think he's on his way to a staging

3 (40m 31s):
facility

1 (40m 32s):
in Alexandria, Virginia and Virginia, Louisiana. And that's a big staging area for flights

3 (40m 41s):
out. Bruce told me she was trying every legal Avenue. She could think of her if she had Confirmed it a hundred percent from Ice that Jonathan was being deported but she was increasingly sure had to be that thought before I play you this last piece of tape. I need to tell you a few things about Ruth. She's no softie. She's a former prosecutor. She's the wife of a former Navy SEAL and DEA agent. Okay, but so the first time we talked she told me she had this kind of big worry around the election and around Jonathan. She was worried that even if Joe Biden won the trump Administration officials would go on a scorched-earth sort of tear with detainees like Johnson and that he'd be deported as part of that.

3 (41m 27s):
This is what

1 (41m 29s):
this is what I thought was going to happen actually, and I don't know if I told it to you or to or to someone else, but the way I think of these people is that they they didn't have confidence that Trump was going to win. Maybe I think maybe they were wrong. and once he goes back then I can't see them. You know what that is. If I could get a hearing here if I could get him a fair Hearing in front of a judge. He would be found to have suffered terrible persecution and to have In great danger future persecution and you only have to show there's a 10% chance that he'll have a future persecution, but there's a warrant for his arrest and the government has it and they'll all be there and you know that the ice officer I talked to last time.

1 (42m 34s):
I thought it was going to be deported when I said, you know, he has an arrest warrant for him. He said oh, yeah, he has an arrest warrant that military will be there waiting for him at the airport. I mean they know. You know, the they know

3 (42m 50s):
Thursday as election result. We're still Gathering and news headlines. I got a call from Jonathan. It was in a Detention Center in Texas. He filled me in on what had happened the morning after the election. He told me a nice officer came to see him around 5:00 a.m. Told Jonathan to take his stuff there were going to the airport. Jonathan says he begged them the whole way there told him that if he was deported he would be killed at the airport. He told me he resisted he refused to get out of the vehicle, but the officers dragged him onto a plane which took him and some other cameroonians to, Texas.

3 (43m 30s):
He was told he would be there for a few days unclear how many but that he was there to be deported. I contacted ice about Jonathan situation in a statement a spokesperson said he'd been quote afforded extensive legal processes and was ultimately found by a federal judge to have no legal basis to remain in the United States and quote. They declined to give any information about when you might be deported though a nice officer confirmed to Ruth that Jonathan would be in a plane early next week. Before I got off the phone with Jonathan on Thursday. I asked him if he knew what would happen if he arrived in Cameroon.

3 (44m 10s):
He said he'd been trying to reach relative who might be able to help him. I have no idea what awaits me. He said just kept repeating that. He told me other than talking to his lawyer Ruth and trying to reach family for help. He'd been spending all of his time praying and Calhoun is one of the producers of our show. Look for Detroit anybody cities around the country this week Republicans have congregated an election centers were votes are being tallied protesting Channing for the counting stop or in the case of Arizona presidential Powers behind in the vote count Channing for the county to continue.

3 (44m 58s):
We wondered what it would be like to be inside one of those counting rooms trying to do your job with all that chaos going on outside Emmanuel Barry talked to a woman who was inside the vote Counting Room in Detroit when Trump supporters tried to get inside chanted. Down the windows kolia Gaston lives in Detroit. She's a News Junkie for this year's presidential election. She kept thinking she Bond here and on Tuesday night. She saw her chance a Facebook post asking for poll Watchers to watch the counting of mail-in ballots in Detroit. It was that a big Convention Center. On Wednesday morning, she goes through training then she walks into the room where there are a hundred and thirty four tables were votes are being processed. She's assigned a partner in denial of tables to

1 (45m 40s):
watch and even that was my first time I was like, I'm in the game so she got to you know, and I actually heard these two Trump supporters say that they said democracy is a contact sport and if you're not in the game and then then you can complain in the outcome. You can't complain if you don't win and so as a former athlete for me, that was like okay, it's game time, you know,

3 (46m 8s):
each state has their own rules for people watching in Michigan Republicans and Democrats are allowed to have one Challenger per table Challengers can challenge about it. And then they're also poll Watchers like Alia who cannot challenge votes or ballads, but can observe the counting and honestly, it's all pretty tame Clea stands on the side. The room looking around taking notes raising small concerns with supervising staff. Like if a person isn't wearing their Mass properly, that's our day starts out. She's just one of hundreds of people in a room watching hundreds of other people count ballots, but a couple hours in things change

1 (46m 48s):
around I want to say something like 11 and 12. That's when I noticed really just a shift in the climate in the room people. Started. Yeah, so people started just getting more chippy.

3 (47m 4s):
Most of the Republican poll Watchers were doing their job without issues but a handful of them started to become disruptive. I

1 (47m 11s):
saw with my own eyes at my table the where I was operating people as they were handling ballads. They were being asked what their political party was and these were election workers who are handling the eyelids. Are you a Democrat? Are you a Republican? I saw people challenging ballots before they had even gotten to the table. So making blanket statements. I'm challenging every ballot access, you know, Isis table and it's like well, there's no bad words acetate.

3 (47m 48s):
She was told this man happen in training that people may cause a scene or try and distract or slow down vote coming

1 (47m 54s):
I think for me, you know, it was very emotional at certain point I found A lot of colleagues a lot of friends a lot of Elders in our community who are there and so for me seeing, you know Elders of our community people who had dedicated years to do this being berated and physically intimidated by the lot of younger white people hate it was it was the Optics were very disconcerting you also. Had people in there talking about the Second Amendment, right and So eventually people started to be escorted out at the wrong

3 (48m 39s):
at this point. Joe Biden was starting to take the lead in Michigan and there were growing rumors and disinformation spreading online about election fraud in Detroit or poll Watchers showed up in the lobby demanding to be let Into The Counting Room the building officials refused saying they had too many people in there already including over 500 Republican and Democratic poll Watchers. Even more people gathered outside the building and what you ended up with was a group of mostly white people chanting stop the vote. Stop the count and a city of mostly black voters. The thing that I have thought about over and over again during this election cycle is that black people exercising their political will to seen as cheating just this Thursday the president called two cities with large black populations Detroit and Philadelphia quote two of the most corrupt political.

3 (49m 30s):
Places anywhere in our country with no evidence for this at all and declare that these cities quote cannot be responsible for engineering the outcome of a presidential race. Wednesday afternoon at the convention center as a crowd outside kept getting bigger. Clea wasn't aware of any of it. She wasn't near the windows, but then things slow down at her tables and she took a

1 (49m 59s):
stroll walk to the front by the media pan. And that's when I saw literally a man climbing the window, you know, I saw Total screaming pushing on the doors and and one of my close friends was there checking in observers and Challengers and she was just really overwhelmed. And then later on you could feel it you could feel and you could see the window shaking while we were in there

3 (50m 33s):
and like what did you think might

1 (50m 35s):
happen? Um, you know, my worst fear was I hope hope one I want opens the door. Are they going to try to force us to stop counting the boats? Are they going to try to physically harm us our people arms. I mean, we're in Michigan right where you have people's Norm the state capital with guns just a month earlier right members of the militia, you know, I applied uncovered to try to kidnap our governor

3 (51m 10s):
Clea was And about what was happening outside, but she had another feeling as she was standing there watching people inside Pride. They all just kept working kept counting the boats. Around 7 p.m. Kolya headed home. She felt relieved to be done. But Thursday

1 (51m 29s):
this morning when I woke up. I just busted out crying and I was like what which does happen, you know, like why all of that that emotion and it was quite a bit and I took me a better that I was like that was traumatic right like what occurred

3 (51m 45s):
last night was traumatic. But trauma isn't the main feeling kolya took away from this experience. She feels emboldened. She said she's definitely going to pull watch again. Daniel Barry is executive editor of our show. High five Miami so maybe this is going to be the year when everybody gets the memo that Latino voters are not an actual thing. Like they're not a voting Bloc with shared interests and identities and political affiliations while vote the same this year mexican-americans in Arizona put the state within reach of the Democrats the first time since the 90s meanwhile on the other side of the country Cuban Americans and Venezuelans help seal the deal with President Trump's victory in Florida, and then there's a generational split young Latinos.

3 (52m 39s):
To be more liberal than their parents Nadia Raymond talk to a family like that a mother and son from Miami their Venezuelan and they're split when I asked Marco and his mom ninotchka how often they talked about politics. They were like, oh it's a topic which is in

1 (52m 56s):
here

3 (52m 58s):
a lot. We actually invited they say which can be tricky because Marco voted for Biden and in discovered Trump the part of that Venezuelan voting Bloc and Florida the presses. Been freaking out about wondering why? Oh, why would let Dino's as if we were one thing vote for Trump. The family moved to Miami 20 years ago. They also live together Marco and Anushka actually worked together at her accounting firm. What are they - well, I'll tell ya Supa get out Trump Marco tells his mom because of Venezuela. I already knew you were going for Trump because Biden didn't come out hard against my Ludo and Venezuela socialist government.

3 (53m 39s):
Ninotchka also says Biden flirted her words with Cuba too much and that was all a deal breaker for her too close to Communism. She can't even say even as well as former presidents named Hugo Chavez. She called him. Is there a number array which is and I'm not even exaggerating he-who-must-not-be-named like Voldemort in North Korea really wants you to know though that she didn't vote for Trump. She voted for the Republican party. She doesn't like him at least not a lot. She thinks he's really rude about immigrants, which he thinks is hypocritical given that his wife is an immigrant. She thinks he's arrogant. She also told me she hated the way he treats reporters though.

3 (54m 21s):
I'm aware. She said this to a reporter. I asked Marco how it made him feel that his mom voted for Trump. He squirmed he moved his hands a lot avoided eye contact.

1 (54m 32s):
Well he got away. So how about yeah.

3 (54m 38s):
It's a messy. It's a mental and emotional mess. I feel strange. I don't want to say the trade will tug of war seek out supplemental keep building.

1 (54m 50s):
They've been alive and

3 (54m 52s):
he's like damn I know other friends and other parents who also came here because of politics also from Venezuela and they went for Biden and so it makes me think what did these other parents find out that made them make a different decision when that's more like mine. He said his mom's vote made him feel a little ashamed. And the No Child does not even get a little upset about this. She's like socialism honey. He didn't live through it. Those are the family and it doesn't get erased and it still hurts and it won't close up.

3 (55m 36s):
How are you going to understand? If you haven't lived it, she tells me how is he going to get it if he hasn't lived at either she points at Marco but those of us who have lived it always feel it here. She says and she points at her heart and here and she points at her head. Asked her she thought the people who are scared about Trump who think he may be the start of a regime itself, like fascism if she thought they were wrong. She said no, she said she could see it but that still seems so far away and unreal compared to the Socialist and she did live through one with the possibility. The other was already a reality.

3 (56m 17s):
And then just as we were wrapping up the interview, she said, you know, we got to just wait calmly for results and honestly for the good of the country, maybe Biden should win Trump makes people. So angry this surprised me. She had been so clear about not wanting by 10, but when she unpacked it a little more I understood she doesn't want unrest that she knows very well. She knows how that story ends. Nadia Raymond is one of the producers of Russia XX, Massachusetts.

3 (57m 5s):
So whatever producer Sean calls for some talking head tapes and CNN recently discussing the stakes of this year's presidential election and how both Democrats and Republicans see it as existential. That's where they use existence. Like the very existence of our democracy we have on our planet hangs in the balance which you know, it can seem kind of abstract and these past few weeks as we approached election day Sean and somebody very close to him have been dealing with very immediate and real world existential questions. Here's Sean about two weeks before the election. My stepfather Ed was admitted to Cape Cod hospital. He was rushed there in an ambulance with extreme shortness of breath. Like he was suffocating turned out to be lung cancer a tumor almost the size of a golf ball that caused all this fluid to build up in his left lung plus of precarious blood clot on the same lung.

3 (57m 56s):
I raised up there from New York before even knowing the diagnosis. It's 90 and had already been battling stage 4 prostate cancer for Couple of years. So there's been this ambient sense of waiting for the other shoe to drop when I got to the hospital to nurses were settling him into the room where he'd spend the next four days. One of them asked him a whole battery of standard in take questions history of smoking. Yes. Do you drink caffeine? Yes, then she said do you feel threatened by anyone at home or just in your life Ed paused looked down and said the president? I thought that was really funny and also telling even in this dire moment for him Trump and the election still kept bobbing back up to the surface as a Democrat follows the news pretty closely back when he was merely contending with stage 4 prostate cancer.

3 (58m 51s):
He told me several times that he just wanted to live long enough to see what happens with the election. I said zero existential dread beyond that and at some point during his hospitals day, I realized this was almost certainly going to be Ed's. Last presidential election and I wondered if you might be experiencing it differently than the rest of us. So for a couple of my daily hospital visits. I brought my recorder along. Oh my God, I'll be glad that it'll be the last election. Are you kidding? Why? There's such nonsensical things and people act like assholes excuse the expression. I mean, you know like Being a republican is turned into some kind of religion now and being a Democrat to and once again, I have the best position in the house if Trump wins, I don't care if I die.

3 (59m 51s):
Divine winds. Okay Trump's gone. Do you think you'll make it till the election? Well, I'll be Mighty pissed at these doctors have I don't at that point again. This was more than a week before election day. The doctors still hadn't given him a prognosis about how long he might live. They did. Tell him that the blood clot could detach it any time and go to his brain or his heart and kill him. He was equally sanguine and philosophical about that as he's been about the cancer told me the clot will either kill him or it won't and if it doesn't why should he worry? And if it does he won't be able to worry. He so Placid about his mortality that it doesn't leave a lot of room for me morosely wringing my hands about it when I'm with him.

3 (1h 0m 36s):
But now there's this kind of gradient from what he's probably still going to be alive for to what he might be to what he probably won't be and he doesn't get to choose of course, but I thought I'd ask him. Anyway, how long do you want to be around for like what are the things that you want to see still? Well, let's see Biden will take over Trump still. Obey a lame duck president after the election but still be president. So three months three months you want to keep going. Otherwise if I to more about got are you commit suicide and you know, I'm not going to say I like to be around three months and that's four months go by and people say why are you still alive?

3 (1h 1m 19s):
That doesn't make any sense? Not to me as long as I'm not an acute pain. I don't mind a little Stay alive. There might be a good show on once in a while. But there might be a good book to read. I mean, you know, I'm not one that wants to live just for the sake of living. I think it's an excellent time and the next two or three years to die. Well, I you're avoiding all sorts of huge problems. We have global warming coming on Big Time. The country is still going to be divided. Even if Biden wins and he's going to hell. Oh hell of a die. Put it back together, but I think he might but still Europe is going totalitarian.

3 (1h 2m 6s):
This country is going more totalitarian, which is scary. So there's not much to look forward to things. I would like to see our answers to the questions. Is there intelligent life in this universe. is not on Earth and I would like to went on to talk about this thing. He read about possible evidence of Life on Venus as usual. He got excited talking about this stuff like a kid. I think it's as curiosity that's kept him around this long the same curiosity not partisanship or spite or ghoulish vengefulness, but curiosity that's had him wanting to see how the election plays out which I think is such a pure perspective to watch this whole yucky circus from especially as he'd be totally forgiven for just the channel

1 (1h 3m 10s):
Hi,

3 (1h 3m 10s):
hon. Hi, Ed. How are you doing? How to Midland fair to middling? Yeah. This call was early Friday morning three days after election day Ed was back home from the hospital and three new prescriptions including a heavy-duty blood thinner for the clot, which has actually been working and while almost everyone else I knew was biting their nails waiting for the Electoral scoreboard to change Ed was not in fact on Election night itself. He Change the channel didn't even watch the Returns come in.

1 (1h 3m 40s):
No, I watched Hallmark movie which you know is scripted. You can always tell the outcome before but if

3 (1h 3m 50s):
that's like the opposite of this election, basically, yeah, like the opposite of a

1 (1h 3m 55s):
lot of things in life. Most things what's more interesting than who wins is what happens now? Yeah. It'll be far more interesting. Will the Trump supporters try to look for another person like Trump? Will they try to find a leader? How is Russia going to

3 (1h 4m 18s):
behave it almost sounds like the script at the end of an episode of a TV show where they give you the Cliffhanger, like will the dynamic duo escape the clutches of you know, find out exactly

1 (1h 4m 34s):
And I hope for the country sake not for mine because I won't be living that long in the future. So I hope for the country safe that Biden

3 (1h 4m 44s):
wins. I told that there's this thing I've been trying to square how he can be so at peace with his own mortality and yet so concerned for the fate of the country and really the world. He's leaving behind those seem like opposites. I said, he said he didn't see the conflict. Of course. He's concerned. Yes, he's not going to be around a lot longer, but we will and he still cares about that. John Cole is one of the producers of our shop. This land is your land.

3 (1h 5m 25s):
Just let is my land was made for you. And I need my Bergen is pretty today by Dana Chivas and Ben Calhoun the people put together today's show include on the baker's. Burton Sean Collier be the cornfield Hillary Elkins. No guilt Damien grave Michelle Harris. Hona chahiye wallet, Andrea Wilbur's cruzada Miki me clean the seats. He's Stone Nelson Catherine. Raimondo. His Pilot Nadiya Raymond, Robin semi-annually Sullivan Crystal.

3 (1h 6m 7s):
Chicawa. My Tierney and Diane. Whoo, I managing editor Sarah. I'm Doraemon our senior editors David kazdin bomb our executive editor Emanuel Berry special. Thanks today to Rose and Steve Johnson the rural Utah project Cape Breton heard Ileana bustillos Vero Cardenas Irene accretion on Johnny Ganesh Ryan Fischer Grant Rommel judgment. Oh Sinclair wardo music - Cindy Otis and Sophie Watanabe Asia group of and of Chris Kyle Vasquez. He Johnson Christopher roads, Joe certain Melody Cole metal and Heinz Mars Stevens, Jennifer Jordyn. Lorry yellow eggs or a cocksucker who would also lose Jared Marcel and Taylor Armstrong our website This American Life dot-org. This American life is over the public radio stations by PRX the public radio exchange sport for This American Life comes from Sierra Nevada Brewing Company family-owned operated in argued over since 1980.

3 (1h 6m 55s):
Supporter of independent thought whether that's online over the air or in a can or bottle more at Sierra Nevada.com. Thanks as always to a programs co-founder. Mr. Toriyama idea, you know, he does a really bad impression of a kitchen door that's been left open on a windy day. Three is Tory bang bang bang bang bang bang her glass back next week. I wonder if we have a president by then. See you soon.

3 (1h 7m 42s):
Next week on the podcast of this American. I've I think I should just confess. I record these promos like the one you're hearing right now for the radio show. I record them a week in advance and I have no idea what's going to happen this week as a record this some very big things are still up in the air in this country as a result. I have no idea what we're going to put on the radio show, but you know, if you heard our show, you know, we do We can do more of that next week on the podcast on your local public radio station. We can do more of that next week on the podcast on your local public radio station.