0 (1s):
Support for This American Life comes from Etsy. Shop Etsy to find a holiday gifts that are handmade, personalized, and one of a kind they're made and sourced by real people go to etsy.com/gifts to shop the thoughtful gifts you need for the people you love this holiday season

1 (19s):
Back in one of the early episodes of our radio show, I had my friend vertebrae Grosvenor come on Virta was this amazing cook. She got a cookbook in 1970 vibration cooking that is still in print today. I've already heard the story that you would tell some times that back when her book was published, she was interviewed on the today show by Barbara Walters, who is on the show back then. And the way Virta told this story, she was on TV, making fried chicken for Barbara Walters. And at some point, Barbara Walters asked her, how did he tell the chicken Stine? And Virta says, you can tell by the sound and invert is telling ms. Walters gives her the skeptical goat, like give me a break and cuts to commercial, where it is said, that was always people's reaction.

2 (59s):
They say, you're crazy. Virta that's not it. They said, you know, tell me something real. Like, why is it 15 minutes, 20 minutes or whatever? And I said, you've got to listen to the sound of the grease, listen to the music.

1 (1m 15s):
So for years to make a claim that you can tell if a chicken's done purely by the sound and to prove the point, she agreed to come onto our radio show to conduct this a little radio experiment, where my coworkers and I fried a chicken and we recorded it at four different stages of fries and then shuffle the odor of the recordings to play for Virta did demonstrate once a brawl. Was it true? Can somebody tell if a chicken's cooked without any visual clues without smell? Okay. And so here is me playing the For recordings for Virta and her trying to pick out which one is the chicken. When it's finished, let's roll and listeners at home can play along with us here.

1 (1m 56s):
Let's roll the first little samples,

2 (2m 2s):
I would say. Yeah, I'd say that's something like the middle.

1 (2m 7s):
Okay. But that definitely isn't towards the end.

2 (2m 9s):
You're saying it's in the middle of going toward the end. It's in the three fourth car.

1 (2m 13s):
Okay. Let's let's hear lets hear a sound. Number two, please.

2 (2m 21s):
Number two is toward the end two. Okay. Number three. That's the beginning more toward the beginning. That

1 (2m 31s):
Is more toward, at the beginning. And number four,

2 (2m 35s):
That's an ender toward the end. When all those little balls are forming on the bottom, that's a little nice crusty.

1 (2m 46s):
Now a verdict. If you would have to hazard a guess as to which one would be the very last one.

2 (2m 51s):
I still say it's one or two that's toward the end. The answer.

1 (2m 55s):
It is number two. So Virta may came reasonably close, but she was totally certain telling of a chicken has done only by sound turned out to be harder than she thought it would be.

2 (3m 5s):
Yes. It was hard. You have to see it. Do you know what I mean? Yeah. Oh it's it's it's I mean it's a serious, you know, it's a labor intensive thing. You've got to stay on it. You just can't be talking on the phone and watching TV. You got to stay on that chicken.

1 (3m 19s):
I was asking your daughters today and they were saying how they can also tell if race is done by the sound.

2 (3m 23s):
Oh yeah, that's true. Yeah. I taught them that those are the kinds of family values. I taught my children. Listen to the sound of the chicken. Listen to the sound of the rice

1 (3m 43s):
Pretty much died four years ago. So I have to say it got to me a little listening to this next part of the interview, where she talks about her daughter's and how happy it made her to hear what they said about her.

2 (3m 53s):
You talked to both of them. I talked

1 (3m 55s):
To both of them. They were both really funny. One of them said everything that she cooks is golden Brown and perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Who said that? That was, I believe it was Shaundra really, but she said, but just because we're her daughters, that doesn't mean that she tells us the real recipes. We ask it for the recipes and she tells us recipes. But then when we cook them, they're not the same. And we know that she's holding back on a grid.

2 (4m 18s):
That's a must. It's not quite true, but you know what? I just tell them. But then they have to, they have to find out the rest for themselves. There you go. You see what I'm saying? I said as with so many things in parenting, I say, I put it a little ginger in it now I'm not going to, you know, then they have to figure out how much a little ginger is. Yeah. That's what they have to do.

1 (4m 49s):
It really is everything. It's a family and it's a culture in its tradition. It's a privatization and it's art. And today in our show, For Thanksgiving weekend. We put together a show made of stories. We've done over the years about food in every one of these stories. Somebody heads out on a quest either to figure something out or to do something very differently with food than most of us do. I'm WBZ Chicago. It's this American life am a glass. Stay with us.

2 (5m 14s):
That's a dead ringer. So a few years back

1 (5m 25s):
A producers, Ben Calhoun set out on a mission, much more eccentric. And labor-intensive the figuring out if the chicken is done by listening to the sound here he is.

3 (5m 34s):
I first heard about this whole thing in an email, it came from a listener or a woman named Emily re-answer. She works in the food industry. And the letter Emily wrote was about a story she'd heard from a farmer. The farmer who told her this is apparently a person of some standing in the pork industry. And admittedly, I don't know the first thing about the pork industry, but he's in charge of a pork producing operation. That several States, the story he told Emily, when something like this a while ago, he was visiting a pork processing plant in Oklahoma. He's walking through it with a friend, a guy who managed the plant actually. And at some point he saw boxes stacked on the floor, labeled artificial kalimari he stood there wondering for a second.

3 (6m 21s):
And then he asked his friend what's artificial, calamari bung, his friend replied it's hog rectum rectum. That would be sliced into rings, deep pride and boom. There you have it. Okay. If I can, let me just narrate for you what this would mean. It would mean that in restaurants everywhere, right? The second people are squeezing lemon wedges over crispy golden rings, dipping the rings into marinara sauce and they're eating hug rectum. Now they're chewing satisfied and deeply clueless. It's a payback.

3 (7m 2s):
It's payback for our blissful ignorance about where our food comes from and how it gets to us. It's amazing. And it's perfect, but it also seems like it couldn't possibly be true. So I called up the farmer to talk to him personally. I wanted to hear it firsthand. And the farmer confirmed this story, the entire thing, the boxes, the bung. But when I asked him to go on the record to tape and interview and give his name here on the radio, he very politely declined, which seems suspicious. Right? When I asked him why he said, he'd spoken with his girlfriend about it. And she suggested that he should think about the words that he wanted to come up.

3 (7m 44s):
When somebody Googled his name. This was all fine though, because he referred me to the real expert, the guy who gave him the tour of the hog processing plan and that guy, he agreed to talk

4 (7m 60s):
Well. Yeah,

3 (8m 3s):
Yeah. This is Ron. Make meat processing, plant manager, presently residing in mountain view, Missouri, where he runs an organic beef processing plant there called beyond organic. If the story really were true, Ron would have been the guy who explained to the farmer, what was in those boxes.

4 (8m 21s):
The boxes are a 10 pound boxes and, and they were all a bit cut off so much. And I liked maybe a day in a 12 inch, a piece of the bone. And you know what? It looks like. This looks like a after they're cleaned and washed and everything, they just look like a bunch of big noodles in a box with all it looks like.

3 (8m 46s):
Well, but the specifically the labels that said imitation kalimari w where, where did you personally see the imitation?

4 (8m 56s):
I've never seen a label say that that's all I was told by the people that told me that the people I worked for a lady told me that, Oh,

3 (9m 8s):
The people that you worked for told you that it was used for imitation calamari.

4 (9m 13s):
Right.

3 (9m 15s):
And is there any possibility that you think that the, when they were explaining this to you, that they were kind of having you on a little bit?

4 (9m 23s):
I haven't me on me. Well, I wouldn't think that, but you know, it could be 5% could have been that, you know, but I seriously doubt it.

3 (9m 39s):
Okay. Just to give a little better picture a pork bone and bung is the actual industry term for it is long and floppy and ugly. At one end, it widens out into this more bulbous shape, like a pink wrinkly pear. That's the rectum at the other end, it narrows into a soft pinkish white tube. I know it sounds gross, but also consider we are a nation that eats more than a billion pounds of sausage, every year billion with a B, maybe you like liverwurst or capicola or summer sausage with a natural casing. Then you like me have eaten bung, stuffed, dried bung, and a lot of broads and Italian sausages are stuffed in intestine.

3 (10m 27s):
So if you eat those regularly, you pretty much live up the street from pong. So why does the idea of a fried ring of bung just feel grocer, partly it's the visual, right? When you see that little ring of calamari, you don't want to picture it in the context of a pig's behind. Then there are all the people who don't eat pork period. Ron said, there's also another reason. Yeah.

4 (10m 53s):
Jeff, because the word bone Brown and people don't just want to jump up and say, man, I'm going to eat me some buttons on that. You know? I mean, that's just the way it is.

3 (11m 6s):
But the big question, the question you've been thinking about since we got on this topic, have you or I eat in imitation, calamari bung dressed up as seafood. Well, Ron didn't know, he said his plan exported a lot of their bung to Asia, but he just didn't know much about whatever happened after it left the door. So he could only speculate anything he said would be a wild guess. So I turned to people who would know is pork bung being falsely pedaled as calamari, I call the USDA.

3 (11m 48s):
The USDA has food inspection service issue. The following statement to me, products inspect, including those derived from pork must be accurately labeled and cannot purport to be a product of another species. So it's against the rules, but people break the rules, a recent study of seafood by a group called Oceana, use DNA testing and found that all across the country, fish is regularly being labeled as other species in restaurants and in grocery stores, escolar sold is white tuna, Pacific rockfish being fraudulent. We sold a snapper in Miami. More than 30% of fish was being sold as something.

3 (12m 28s):
It wasn't in New York. The number was 39% Boston, 48% Los Angeles. Are you ready? 55% 55. That means if you order fish in LA, you are most likely eating a species. You did not order. In other words, seafood substitution is rampant in this country and depending on where you live. And when I can tell you can get cleaned. Hogben For about half the price of clean squid. So there would be money in it. If you could pull off the switch and as best as I can tell where you to do this, you would not be caught a lawyer whose familiar with this area of law and regulation told me once bunk leaves the plant, there's a variety of agencies and entities that would be in play USDA, FDA, state, and local government.

3 (13m 21s):
But ultimately he said, the regulation we have is not designed to catch an offense like this. It's aimed mostly at sanitation and food safety. So bottom line, the lawyer said if somebody wanted to do it, chances are they'd get away with it. So is someone out there doing this? Well for weeks, I looked for an answer. The USDA says they've never heard of anyone trying to pass pork bung as a squid or any other species.

4 (13m 52s):
I contacted

3 (13m 53s):
The national restaurant association, the national pork producers council, the national pork board, a squid fishermen's association, Cisco and other big food and restaurant supply companies.

4 (14m 4s):
It's a hog. What a bunk, a hog rectum. Oh my gosh. That's

3 (14m 10s):
The executive director of the California wet fish producers association. But the answer was pretty much always the same. Nobody had heard of it, but almost to a person. They added that. That doesn't mean it's not happening somewhere. Ron makes it a lot of the bung from his plant got export it. So my next call was to the U S meat export Federation, which confirmed that quote, the main destinations for pork bungs are China, Hong Kong, Japan, Taiwan, Korea, and the Philippines. They are mainly used for processing, but we are aware of some uses and soups and certain entrees. We are not aware of them being used as a substitute for kalimari, but not impossible.

3 (14m 53s):
Unquote. So over the past few weeks, I've called Asian food suppliers. People who live in work in and eat in those countries. I talked to a woman named Corinne Trang. Who's written an overarching compendium of Asian cuisines. I've talked to academics at NYU and have a food and USC and Harvard I've reached out to chefs who know Asian food. The answer again, always similar, never heard of it, but it's a possible, partly because bung doesn't have such a complicated reputation in Asia where it has to be some kind of secret ingredient like it does here. On the other hand, though, people pointed out that in, in Korea, in Japan, you can't get more than a few hours from the ocean.

3 (15m 36s):
Squid is cheap and it's readily available. You'd only eat a substitute if you wanted the substitute. Generally people said, if this switch was happening somewhere, they'd guess China. Eventually I found my way to this guy who I was really excited about. Someone who I thought might have my answer. He was get, This an anthropologist who lived and worked in China for 40 years where he studied food and specifically meat. When I talked to him though, he made two points. Point one. My question about this happening in Asia was racist. Even just asking the question was racist because it plays on ignorant stereotypes about other cultures, eating things that we perceive as weird 0.2 was that Ron meek, my guy from the pig plant, Ron was pulling my leg and he was getting away with it because I was a dumb ass.

3 (16m 33s):
He told me more than once that I should quote, find something worthwhile to do with myself. When we ended our conversation, he told me that he was refusing to even dignify what I was doing by appearing on the radio or by letting me use his name. Okay. So to respond to his points one by one first, am I racist against Asians? Well, I'm half Chinese. My mom's Chinese. Like anyone I've had the occasional issue with my mother, but this has not been one of them. We grew up eating chicken feed and fish eyes. And I think it's possible to raise the question of who eats what without being racist. His second point though, that Ron meek was pulling my leg.

3 (17m 15s):
I mean, the guy was still an expert on meet in China. So I called Ron back.

4 (17m 20s):
All right, shoot me some questions. Did

3 (17m 23s):
Told him the whole thing about the anthropologist about what he said, I guess. I mean, the only thing I want to ask you is, is are you, are you messing up?

4 (17m 32s):
No. I mean, that was what my boss told me. I was like, what the hell are we save these hog bunks where he says that you use them for imitation squids and stuff like that.

3 (17m 45s):
But so in your, in your heart of hearts, do you believe it? Yeah, man. I mean,

4 (17m 51s):
I mean, I, ain't gonna sit here and tell you think that there's a bullet in play with you when, when the I'm just going off of my knowledge of saving hog bones. I mean, you got to think about how far in advance slaughterhouses are, especially big ones that want to make every penny count. Like the one I worked at you bring the pig, then you stun them. Then you stick them. And the blood goes off into that Trop. And it goes down in a vacuum, sucked out of there with a vacuum into the centrifuges.

4 (18m 33s):
And they separate the blood from the blood plasma. And they save that. I mean, they save the lungs, they save the pancreas, they save the spleens. They say the heart, the only thing left by the time it's all said and done is a skull and jawbones. I mean, you can be an anthropologist. All you want. If you don't work in a processing plant, you don't know.

3 (19m 8s):
I contacted the plant round, worked at where this happened and for what it's worth, they backed them up. They said their sales team had heard of people eating pork. Bunk is imitation calamari though. They hadn't witnessed it firsthand or heard it directly from a customer. It was all hearsay. So at the end of all this, I still had no proof that anyone was passing off. Bung is squid. And then I realized, I hadn't asked the more basic question here could bung do it, could it pass as calamari? And that question led me to a guy named Eddie Lynn. Eddie Lynn has eaten a lot of bung, at least a hundred times. He said probably more.

3 (19m 48s):
Eddie has a extreme food blog called deep end dining and an online TV show called kamikaze kitchen.

4 (19m 54s):
I could definitely see a resemblance texture-wise. Oh really? Yeah. Yeah, definitely. The, the it's sort of the, sort of a rubbery texture sort of like a column lorry, but you would really have to get rid of that, you know, needless to say a foul flavor and odor from the, the, the, the bum.

3 (20m 21s):
No, I hadn't figured that the bung, once it was scrubbed and rinsed and cleaned with steam, that it would still taste like, you know,

4 (20m 29s):
So yeah. You would definitely have to do some major, major blanching or, or, or, or brining brining. Yeah.

3 (20m 40s):
To just try and leech that, those flavors out of there.

4 (20m 43s):
Yeah. I mean the, those flavors have been, you know, marinating in that

5 (20m 48s):
Pig quite a while. So

3 (20m 51s):
A lifetime, he thought it wouldn't be easy, but he thought it could be done. And there was only one way to tell if he was right to cook up some bung and eat it. And if the taste was overwhelming and the texture was all wrong, well, then I'd have my answer. And at this point I'll be Frank. I started to root for the bum. I realized that this is not a story about fraud. It's not a bait and switch story. It's a story about possibility. It's a classic rags to riches. It's about whether they're a cut of meat. Perhaps the lowliest most maligned cut of meat in America might somehow and at least one place on the planet be dipped in the redemptive oils of the great culinary equalizer.

3 (21m 40s):
That is the deep fryer. And it might emerge transformed no longer an outcast, but instead hair combed, clean shaven in a suit and tie, it might walk reborn onto a table through sheer force of resemblance. It might be loved it's history, years of drudgery and hardship doing the body's least glamorous job, all washed away. Know, this is not the story of a con man like Bernie Madoff. It's pretty woman. This is whether Goodwill hunting finds his way out of Southeast it's whether Charlie on that very last chocolate bar really can get a golden ticket.

3 (22m 22s):
<inaudible> to do all this. To try it. I called my little sister Lauren. She's a chef trained abroad at the cordon Bleu and worked at Michelin star restaurants. She's that kind of chef soon. We were standing in front of a deli case. And I don't know why I feel hesitant about saying this because I don't think it's racist. It was in Chinatown.

5 (22m 53s):
There it is. Look at it. It looks like it looks like this has been a factor. What do you mean? It looks like this is one up here. That's cut up. It looks like a button.

3 (23m 9s):
And Lauren had theories about pulling it off. Brining, soaking, maybe braising. But once we got to the store, once she'd seen the meetup clothes, her doubts got worse.

5 (23m 21s):
I think after looking at it, I don't think that I don't think it's going to you don't think it's going to work. No, it's too thick. There's too much. There's too much muscle. Like muscle tissue. You'd have to use like a ring cutter to make it the right thickness. Those bits are in there.

3 (23m 47s):
Oh, you know who? My sister said Eddie Lynn was definitely right. The giveaway would be the stubborn flavor of Pooh, that flavor. She said, it's tough to get rid of the earth, revolves around the sun. And bung will always taste like, but there was no backing out. Now we would eat. We would eat our way to the truth. And so what if it didn't look good? So what if bong was destined to tastes like bond? You know who it didn't look good for? And he still put up a fight. Rocky Balboa that's who this was it, the bung versus calamari squid versus tail.

3 (24m 27s):
The rumble in the bunghole <inaudible> we set up the tasting at a restaurant in the low between lunch and dinner and the dining room. There was just a few tables eating and all around the restaurant in the morning shift was wrapping up as we walked in with a red cooler filled with squid and hog bonds. So originally I'd recruited some half a dozen people from our office at This American Life is tasters the final group of the day of the tasting included from the office, Seth Lind and Brian Reed. So, so when's the last time that you guys had calamari?

3 (25m 10s):
I had

6 (25m 12s):
Mari probably like a month ago.

3 (25m 17s):
And what about, what about you, Brian?

6 (25m 20s):
I haven't had it since we got this tip about, about the possible, Oh my gosh. Have you been avoiding? Yeah, totally. And I, and like, to be honest, like I, I eat calamari pretty right. You know, I'm like a regular eater of calamari. Like that is not like all the time, but like its something, a routine on the order, if it's on an appetizer menu, you know? Yeah. I mean I grew up in like an Italian American family where like my grandparents were also born here. I feel like kalimari is just a big among that sector of people. I like, you know, olive garden and stuff like that. So I just grew up eating it. You know,

3 (25m 53s):
I hadn't realized this for weeks. Brian had been avoiding calamari. He'd been living in fear. Right?

6 (25m 59s):
If you find out that they're indiscernible from each other, will you ever eat calamari again? No, I don't think so. That's why I want to do this. Just to know, going forward,

3 (26m 9s):
Back in the kitchen, things were looking bad. I'd given up on the idea that bunk would taste the same as calamari. Now it hung my hopes on the idea that at least visually it would look the same. But as my sister dropped the flowered rings of hog bung into the fryer, they had turned into this kind of big ugly tangled bot, nothing like the Gigli squid rings. If they're very, they're very like scraggly looking. But then as if by a miracle, they changed my sister, give a shake to the fry and as they sizzled, the bung just seemed to gracefully snap into rings.

5 (26m 49s):
Oh, look at that though. It's like a magic they're like turning into circles. Yeah. I'm in a poll these first ones.

3 (26m 59s):
Soon we were face-to-face with the plate on it. There were two piles of rings, similar in size, similar in shape. The bung had more of a Frizzly edge to it kind of like a fancy onion ring. The calamari was smoother. I asked Seth and Brian to just get a first impression.

6 (27m 16s):
I have a guess, but I could tell it's one of the things where you're like, you're pretty sure, but you could totally be wrong.

5 (27m 22s):
God. I thought it would be more shirt. I don't

6 (27m 28s):
I'm waffling now

5 (27m 30s):
Just my gut reaction. My gut reaction.

6 (27m 35s):
And is that this was, this was calamari and this was not okay before you eat it and see, I totally thought this was calamari the other one. Okay. So I'm going to do it at the same time.

3 (27m 47s):
Okay. So just to be clear, what's going on in here. Seth has chosen one pile of ratings, which he thinks is calamari. Brian has done the same thing. Only Brian is choosing the other stack of fried rings.

6 (27m 59s):
Okay. So whereabouts we're about to bite into the simultaneously, which we both think this is kalimari but there the opposite, the opposite ones.

5 (28m 8s):
Okay.

3 (28m 15s):
So in actuality, Seth is right. Seth is eating calamari. The chewing you hear from Brian and Mike, that is the sound of a kalimari lover, eating fried pig rectum. I should also add there actually two varieties of bung on the plate that day one bung that my sister had blanched over and over to mellow any organi fecal flavor, and then untreated straight up bunk unfiltered Unchained, uncut 100% pure bunk that one, the latter one bung at its purest at the height of its bugginess. This is what Brian was eating. As they ate. Seth is still a confident,

5 (28m 56s):
I think, I think

6 (28m 58s):
That was, I think I was right. I think I was right. Really? I totally think I was right

3 (29m 6s):
Game set, match bung. And it wasn't just Brian. I thought so. Damian who manages the restaurant, he also thought it was possible. A few of us picked up a faint flavor of pork rind. But if you weren't really looking for it, you wouldn't notice it was there. One of the restaurant staff, a guy named Ethan van Buren had the simplest clearest explanation.

6 (29m 29s):
I think that when you slice something up really thin in deep, right, it's going to taste like something that's been a deep breath.

5 (29m 34s):
If, if a plate full of the bunk came out, how many people do you think would, would even like, do you think you'd notice if you were in setting, I'd say

6 (29m 42s):
Top scenario is somebody says this calamari tastes funny and keeps you it again.

7 (29m 47s):
And that's for Brian L Brian, Brian was reeling a bit trying to figure out just what this was going to mean for him.

6 (29m 55s):
I'm I I'm sure I've been fooled on the past. I'm just like sure that you're thinking that you've been places in the past and you've had both, I just imagined seeing a plate that looks like that with this food that looks like this on it, like sitting with my family growing up, like we definitely have eaten something that tasted like this and just thought it was calamari. For sure.

7 (30m 14s):
Not only wasn't he sure if he'd ever Cal Mari again, he didn't want to eat the calamari on the plate in front of him. Calla Marie, I guaranteed him was real. Just to repeat one last time. I have no proof that anyone anywhere has ever tried to pass off pork bung as kalimari in a restaurant. All I know is if you wanted to do it, it would be easy. And I'm choosing to believe that it's happening somewhere. Because at some point in working on this story, I stopped identifying with Bryan and anyone who might feel ripped off or grossed out by getting imitation.

7 (30m 56s):
Instead of the real thing, now identify with the bung. And I'd like to think that somewhere out there right now under a heat lamp, a platter is sitting, it's warm and it's full of promise and transformation and redemption. That's the world that I'll choose to live in for me, for you, for the bung, for the bung and all of us.

6 (31m 25s):
<inaudible>

7 (31m 34s):
Benco is one of the producers of a program that has never been before you swear off calamari forever. Please, please notice that band is only saying that it is possible that this is happening, that he did not find actual documented proof. That pig bung is being substituted for calamari abroad or especially here in the United States, coming up, cooking chicken for dinner, right in front of the chicken, who is your pet, who you live with, who watches you do it? That's in a minute with Chicago, Bubba radio. When our program continues support for this American life comes from Etsy. You can find truly special holiday gifts on Etsy.

7 (32m 14s):
The perfect housewares, personalized jewelry, custom made toys and more, both made by hand and handpicked by vintage experts. Giving a gift from Betsy is a way to show the people you love that you're really thinking about who they are and what they care about. Go to etsy.com/gifts to shop the thoughtful gifts you need for the people you love. This holiday season support for this life comes

1 (32m 40s):
From better help. Online counseling, better help offers licensed counselors who specialize in issues, including depression and anxiety, as well as relationships, trauma, anger, and more. You can connect privately with a counselor through text chat, phone, or video calls, and you'll get help on your own time@yourownpaceandatanaffordablerateforaspecialoffervisitbetterhelp.com slash T a L. That's better help.com/t a L C American Life from IRA glass today's program. Turkey in a Face Mask for the holiday season. This unusual COVID Thanksgiving with so many things about the holiday are different.

1 (33m 20s):
We put together a show with stories about food that we have done over the years. We've arrived at act two of our program act to still Life with chicken. So Jonathan gold was a kind of legendary food writer invented this way of writing about restaurants that treated whole in the wild places and street food. With the same seriousness that other restaurant critics had always written about fancy places. This led to a whole genre of food writing and TV shows like Anthony Bordain. And before he died in 2018, Jonathan was on our show a couple of times, and this interview that I want to play you now, it was one of those conversations that just, it ended up in a very different place than it began. As you hear it ended with him talking about like, I don't even know exactly what to call it, but like the nature of eating, but it began with Jonathan explaining to me how he ended up living with a chicken, explain that that happened by accident when he was in his twenties, he was not living the kind of Life one, usually associates with chickens.

1 (34m 19s):
This was,

8 (34m 20s):
And the period when I considered myself to be a performance artist of sword and a naked performance artists to be specific,

1 (34m 27s):
He was putting together a performance. He had a PA system, which could put out the requisite amount of annoying feedback sound at high decibels. The add the two full bottles of Glade American beauty air freshener, which he would spray in their entirety in the performance space. And he had a live chicken, which he bought the day before the performance. And one of those Chinese poultry markets in Los Angeles and comes a day of the show and audience gathers in a darkened warehouse in Western.

8 (34m 53s):
I dunno if you've been to a lot of performance art, but this was sort of really typical of the stuff that was going on with the period. And I showed up and I was naked and I was carrying machete and I was blindfolded. And I stood in the middle of this pile of supermarket chickens. You know, the, the, like the boilers that you by and the chicken that I had bought was tethered to a three foot rope around me. And I hacked up and down blindly with a machete toward the chicken or just in general. Well, I was blindfolded. So I didn't know if it was towards the chicken or not.

8 (35m 39s):
And I had fully intended that. In fact, I would kill a chicken, the midst of this performance, but chickens aren't that stupid. And this chicken wanted no part of the machete stayed at the end of its rope the entire time, apparently. And after 10 minutes, when I was completely exhausted, I fell to a heap and everybody left and the performance was over. I don't know if you've stuck around after an art performance, but the few minutes after an art performance are the, some of the most depressing in the world. How so? You've, you've done your wad. You've done your sort of a bit for art, which has either worked or it hasn't, but you're sitting there, you're covered with chicken, a flu V in my case, it stinks to high hell.

8 (36m 29s):
Everybody's gone and you've got a clean up and you're naked.

9 (36m 37s):
It's really not a pretty picture.

7 (36m 47s):
So Jonathan cleaned up and when he was done, he had a chicken and he didn't feel like he could kill the chicken destiny had brought them together. He felt like he could not turn his back. He says it was the same as if a kitten shows up on your back door, scratching, lonely needy. So we took the chicken home. And in doing that, he stumbled across that thin, thin line that separates food items. On the one hand from pets on the other, the divides, the animals we eat from the animals we love,

8 (37m 20s):
I get home and I ha I have this chicken and I don't know what to do with it. So I spread out some newspaper on the top of my refrigerator and I put the chicken up there. I get a can of a green, giant bread niblets forum under the counter. And I opened it and I put it in a little bowl for the check on it. And I give the chicken a little water and the chickens on top of my refridge.

7 (37m 42s):
Cause, cause you think chickens eat corn. You had read that or something.

8 (37m 45s):
And those that was the available corn. That was the available corn. I wish I had thought better of the niblets idea. Why? Because in fact, if you're buying three or four cans of niblets a day, which is what the chicken aid in your existing on almost nothing, which I was then your niblet bill turns out to be like some, you know, to figure percentage of it

9 (38m 12s):
Probably gonna come each week.

8 (38m 15s):
I could imagine living on $50 a week, but $10 of a ghost for a nibble. It's just hard to justify an expense like that.

9 (38m 29s):
So at the removal of

8 (38m 32s):
15 years, I think I can probably safely admit to you. That is one of the reasons that I stuck with niblets was because I liked seeing the word niblets so much, and this gave me the, the, the excuse to use the word like niblet and general conversations several times a day.

7 (38m 51s):
Usually it just doesn't come up.

9 (38m 53s):
<inaudible>

8 (39m 2s):
Stayed there on top of my refrigerator for a long time months, six months, I think is a, this is like a one room apartment, a two a report. But I had a, I had a kitchen in a bedroom, so I didn't have to look at the chicken when I was sleeping, though. I did have to look at it when I was cooking.

7 (39m 19s):
Did you ever cook chicken? Of course. A cooked chicken. Didn't you feel intensely disliked?

8 (39m 25s):
No, I felt no particular loyalty. This chicken. I don't know if you've ever had chickens, but it's not like you, I mean, you don't pet chickens, chickens. Don't really like you to pet them and you don't hold them. There's really no love that you feel for a chicken in your life. I don't think,

7 (39m 39s):
But yet you kept the chicken.

8 (39m 41s):
I kept the chicken because I couldn't bear to do anything else. And it's not like I could've carried it out onto Pico Boulevard and said be free a little chicken beef free.

9 (39m 51s):
Wow.

7 (39m 58s):
Did you get the chicken, a name?

8 (40m 1s):
I never needed the chicken. When I referred to the chicken in public, I always called it the hand.

7 (40m 6s):
How did you not name it? It was a, it was a, it was a creature in your house.

8 (40m 10s):
The chicken always seemed temporary. It never occurred to me that I might have the chicken in. As long as six months, the chicken always seemed like something that I would have for just a couple of days.

7 (40m 21s):
And then what did you think was going to happen?

8 (40m 24s):
I guess I thought a thought about the chicken expiring B. I have to admit that there was a possibility that someday I would actually cook the chicken. I went through a lot of chicken recipes, hundreds and hundreds of chicken recipe, but

7 (40m 40s):
Thinking maybe this would be the recipe for my niblet fed chicken. Exactly. Possibly. I have to say it the most delicious chicken that you could ever eat because of those notebooks.

8 (40m 51s):
You can't bind them with Federick and for love money. I don't think

9 (40m 55s):
<inaudible>,

8 (40m 59s):
I'm not sure that a recipe existed that would have lived up to the fact of the chicken, this animal, who you have come to know on fairly intimate terms and who you have raised in who have put a certain amount of emotion into

7 (41m 14s):
A chicken. If I might say, who has seen you naked?

8 (41m 16s):
The chicken did see me naked. Dammit.

7 (41m 23s):
The fact is we need food to be just food. And as soon as it becomes a living thing, especially if we're city people, you know, we're not used to the conversion of living things into our food. It's, it's hard. It's hard to handle with that thinking. It has to be bigger than food, you know, without wanting to make it a ritualized or something bigger than food. Exactly. Can I tell you a short, a small step?

8 (41m 52s):
Yeah, of course. A few weeks ago, I was in This Korean restaurant in Korea town in Los Angeles. It was this place called the living fish center that I'd always wanted to go because the name of it was so splendid, you know, living fish center. I imagined, you know, some sort of like a vast vivarium where like flipper was jumping through hoops and stuff. And I go in there and of course it's just like a crummy Korean restaurant. I mean, it's, it's not that clean and I don't know their tanks and stuff, but I didn't know what to order. So I order a fish soup cause it looks like they have a small fish soup specialty on the menu and it comes and it's just really strong smelling, not that great.

8 (42m 40s):
And I try a squid fried with bean sauce and onions, which was why wasn't that happening? And I'm about to give up and pay the check and go home with a vast table filled with I need and stuff. And it's suddenly cursed me with the specialty of the restaurant is, and you know, I waved the waitress over. Yeah. And I tell her that I like a prawn and she is puzzled. She didn't expect me to ask for a prong, but I repeated my request and she shrugs and goes and tells the sushi chef. And he goes to one side of the restaurant and he climbs on this chair, this ordinary folding chair.

8 (43m 23s):
And he reaches into this long tank. That's running just below the ceiling. And he wiggles his fingers in the water. When he wiggles the fingers, the prawns just become enraged and they start nipping at his fingers and they start attacking him and he picks out a couple of the liveliest ones and brings them back to his counter. And without washing his hands mind, you just makes it a few motions over it. And a couple seconds later, the waitress comes over with the prawns on this huge amount of eyes. And what he'd done is he'd taken off the exoskeleton. He'd essentially like the head was intact. And that little part of the tail that is always on prawns is still there.

8 (44m 7s):
But the middle part is naked like a grub. And I picked up the problem with my chopsticks and it was not dead. This prom, it was extremely alive and it was wiggling its legs. And it was wiggling its antennas and its eyes were like swiveling madly on its eyes stocks. And it was looking back at me, seeing me as actually the predator of third creature that was going to eat it. And that was a really freakish moment because as much as as much stuff as I eat in his low, low, as I eat in the food chain and as many prawns as I have dispatched in my life, I have never before killed a living, being with my tea.

8 (44m 52s):
And he, the prawn knew what I was going to do and he did not like it. And I wasn't quite sure what to do, but I, if I put it down the problem with a diet anyway, and it's not gonna live without a shadow with somebody else who would have eaten at blah, blah, blah. So I bit into it. I've been in the body off with my teeth and the prompts just relaxed in this way. That was really eerie. And the taste of the problem, the tastes of the meat of it was extraordinary. I mean, it was sweet. It was like, there was Life coursing through it. It was the most alive thing I've ever eaten.

8 (45m 34s):
You know, obviously literally, but again, it was freaky. It was getting too close to the actual nature of consumption, which is killing a living creature with your teeth.

7 (45m 50s):
When you, when you bid into the prod, did you actually bite off its head, its living head and have it's head in its eyes in your mouth?

8 (46m 1s):
No, I bit off its body. And I held the ha and I held the head in my hands. Yeah.

7 (46m 6s):
So you, so you had the head and kind of one hand in the tale on the other and you've been at the center.

8 (46m 10s):
Right. And I thought that I, I thought that I killed it. But in fact, when I put it down, it was still had so much life in it that it grabbed a piece of salmon sashimi and wouldn't let go of it. And I don't think I ever want to do that again.

7 (46m 33s):
Did you feel like there was something about the experience that made it more? This word is a little coronary than I intended, but it's the only word that I can think of that made it more sacred that took it out of the mundane This of the way that we eat, which for most of us is eating without actually tasting and experiencing and thinking about what we're eating and what on the earth it is that we're killing to survive. Do you think in some way that it is that it's more acceptable to eat an animal, if you are more awake too, the fact that it is an animal and what's happened to it, or do you think it really doesn't matter?

7 (47m 19s):
I think it matters a great deal. I mean, one of the greatest metaphors in Western civilization is that of know Christ who gave life so that others might live. And I don't want to be a SAC religious, and I don't want to belittle that myth in any way, but a pig is giving us Life so that we might eat a chicken is giving us life so that we might need. And I think the least that we can do is to think about that chicken, to think about that calf, that we're eating, not necessarily to be sad for it, but to celebrate it, to be aware of the being that it was, that it wasn't just this pit, you know, bio engineered protein that somehow managed to find its way into our plates.

7 (48m 15s):
Jonathan gold, if a carrier,

1 (48m 17s):
Oh, that is writing. This is a collection of his columns called counter-intelligence

7 (48m 21s):
<inaudible>

1 (48m 36s):
Lunchtime with the King of ketchup. So Andrew showed a day with a story of a man who has a very simple mission in life to give a little special treatment to a group of people whose contribution to society is often overlooked the men and women of the food service industry, who, when they meet this guy, tend to give him a little special treatment in return the story, as you'll be able to tell when you hear it was first broadcast long before the pandemic, Jonathan Goldstein, whose name I know is very similar to the guy in act two, but that means nothing tells the tale

10 (49m 8s):
<inaudible> and I have been friends since we're kids. And so I can say with great authority that almost every day for the past 10 years, how are checklists as either dined out or ordered in at least one of his meals, sometimes when Howard is unsure what he's in the mood for, he'll lift an empty hand up to his mouth and pretend that he's eating. He stares straight ahead, trying to figure out if he likes the taste of the imaginary food, he is shoving into his mouth. Sometimes his hand is holding a hamburger. Sometimes a fork wrapped in spaghetti and other times he is double fisting, either end of an invisible pork rib.

10 (49m 49s):
Howard's always loved restaurants. He was raised in a Jewish Eastern European household where the very idea of a restaurant was a ridiculous piece of decadence, something for caustics and cocaine addicts who enjoyed flushing their money down the toilet restaurants had a transgressive allure. And as soon as Howard was old enough, he started sneaking away to them after school, or sometimes on weekends while the whole family was still asleep. In fact, Howard was the very first person I've ever dined out with alone without any family. We were 12 years old and we ate at Atomics pizzeria, a place just down the street from us. It was by a crotchety old Greek man named Costa who served ridiculously large portions of food.

10 (50m 33s):
We'd get a plate of fries, the size of a dead Shetland pony, but right alongside of it, Costa would place one measly packet of ketchup. When we asked for more, he looked at us like we had just asked for more blood from his mother's still beating heart. Whereas I learned to ration eating four to 500 French fries with a bottle cap sized dollop, Howard learned how to talk to Costa, how to win them over, how to make them see that giving us more catch-up was just the right thing to do along the way. Howard learned how to say in Greek. Thank you kind, sir. Bless you for the catch-up as well as the excellent Caronia Pola VAT, how ketchup sauce here's many years to your catch-up ever since way back then Howard has had a very special rapport with the men and women of the food service industry.

10 (51m 28s):
And he has worked very hard over the years to cultivate this relationship.

11 (51m 33s):
I've been to every single restaurant in the neighborhood and several times. So I feel like I can call in on every restaurant

10 (51m 38s):
A couple of weeks ago, Howard took me on a walking tour of the best places to eat in his neighborhood. I've walked into bakeries with Howard, where the young girls in old man alike, who worked there have dropped their doughnut tongs to cry out with joy. Howard. I've watched them get moved to the front of the line, outside restaurants in Chinatown when he's related to a waiter or a delivery man, all that Howard sees is one person giving another person food. He talks to them as though they are friends, brothers, even his servers are able to sense his purity of vision. And they bestow on him in every exchange. Some little bit of a special treat.

11 (52m 16s):
Well, let me just show you a ghost here on the corner of there is a place called I'm not sure what the hell they used to be called Lydia fee, which is the challenge. And that was a really great place. And then it closed and they moved right across the street and they had a dollar 99 spaghetti meal. I would go there every day and I brought a lot of friends, but I got, so it got to the point where when I came in, I was actually able to serve myself. That's the closest we got. We, we go in, they greet me and they won't even get up. I would go out and pour myself coffee. And I was actually, I would actually serve other people, coffee. I say more coffee, sir. At first it was a novelty. Then they got very used to it. They actually liked it. The other thing is too one time they actually made me let, let, let, let me make toast and stuff. Make some of my food. That's actually a true story.

10 (52m 56s):
In fact, Howard is such a beloved figure in the neighborhood that whenever our friend Tucker goes in to get takeout from Sara's a local middle Eastern restaurant, he'll tell whoever is serving him that in fact the food was not for him, but that he was picking it up for Howard This earned in portions that were almost twice as large as what he'd normally get Howard. He is the best man. His server would say, as he piled food onto his plate, you are so lucky to have a friend like indeed. He was

9 (53m 28s):
<inaudible>.

10 (53m 33s):
Yeah, but the funny thing is, is that Howard is so doted upon when he eats in restaurants, that sometimes it makes it difficult for him to just sit back and enjoy his meal. He feels he has to balance things out. And so he dotes right back because of that, it could be hard to carry on a conversation with him. His eyes will nervously scan the restaurant for any way. He could be of help to the waiting staff. Howard's ears can detect the muted clink of cutlery, falling to the carpet from clear across the room. And when he does, he'll do a kind of concerned gym coach trot over to the mishandled piece of silverware and pluck it up off the floor.

10 (54m 17s):
So as much as Howard loves the restaurants, when he really wants to relax, he'll get home delivery. And since it was nearing lunchtime, rather than stepping into one of the many restaurants we were passing, Howard ushered us back in the direction of his house to dial out for our grub at his place. He pulled open his top kitchen drawer, and I saw the many choices that lay before us. There's about 400 menus in that chore.

12 (54m 44s):
I would say it's 400. I'd love to count it. I'd say if this, if this handful is about 10, 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 67

10 (54m 57s):
Watches, restaurant owners and waiters love Howard it's delivery, man, who really, really love him. I mean, who among us even knows our delivery man's name, Howard knows their names and the names of their wives and children. When they come to his door, he invites them in and offers them water. And in return, they'll actually call Howard later on to see if his meal was to his liking, that it was warm enough that there was enough

12 (55m 22s):
And in 92, hundreds of embarrassing to 10 to 20 to 32, but 250 menus in here. There are some doubles for sure, or, or even like even like multiple copies, but only a restaurant. I order from all the time

10 (55m 34s):
We decide to order from Howard's favorite restaurant, a souvlaki place called the Greek village.

12 (55m 40s):
I'm going to take a number 10, a two year old Peter. And I think that's it. Thanks. Have a nice day. Bye.

10 (55m 46s):
While we wait for the food, Howard waves me over and opens his kitchen cupboard to reveal physical proof of his good standing with the service industry.

12 (55m 55s):
Here we go. These are all bags of ketchup, salt, soy sauce. And this is all from takeout.

9 (55m 60s):
Yep. And these are like big

10 (56m 2s):
Bags full of nothing but ketchup.

9 (56m 5s):
Are there some soy sauce?

10 (56m 11s):
So gone are the days where you had to like wheedle out a single packet out of a cost as a hands free for your French fries.

12 (56m 20s):
It's true that I have so much now. You know, I have so many packets here, but I,

9 (56m 24s):
No matter how many packets I mess, it'll never catch up to what I missed as a child, catch up

10 (56m 34s):
Then with vaudeville timing, our delivery arrives.

9 (56m 40s):
Howard

10 (56m 40s):
Greets the delivery man, like an old friend. He hasn't seen in quite some time

9 (56m 44s):
Play some less bad is it?

11 (56m 47s):
He's a beautiful man, such a nice man. And I'm telling you, I didn't get you in trouble. The way it was a customer in Montreal. I have come on each time I come, he gave me the Apple. He gave me a juice. He gave me everything.

10 (56m 59s):
When I order in like most people, I figure these guys want out of my house as badly as a bird, that's accidentally flown in down the chimney. And I assist them in their passage. Usually having the exact change with a tip already for them at the door. But at Howard's house delivery, man, stay a long time. They seem to want to

11 (57m 19s):
Jamaica offer you something. No, thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Yeah. So Marlin is not working there anymore. No, because he had a, I think in some way else. A job. Okay. Okay. I see everything is different. That's why I felt so bad when I call it is when I ask is he is Shamira, you know, I feel like, well, we don't know who you're going to get. You don't have to feel. I know, but I don't want to get you in trouble.

10 (57m 39s):
After about 10 minutes of this, I just want to eat. I find myself buying a bag of souvlaki line on the floor, like a camp ground bear. I realized then that I'm just not made of the same stuff as Howard and I never will be. They finally sit down to eat. I can't even get Howard to admit that he's doing anything so special with guys like Shamir, we'd go back and forth on this because I mean, most people won't go to the extent that you do, which is why you have guys that work the telephone coming by to your house to meet you. That probably doesn't happen that often. Why we believe I don't really Julius and I'm nice to them.

10 (58m 19s):
I mean, just empirically, you have to see at this point that you're getting responded to differently than most people. So there must be something different. No, you know, someone's going to come to my door more than a few times. And they know my face when we're saying, how are you? I'm going to start treating that person like a human being. And most people I think are probably rude to them. Like most people that I know give delivery them in a buck. And I think like that they do have a heart. They have a harder job than a waiter or waitress because here's a guy who takes your food guests into a car with this is Life goes into traffic, come back in a second risks, his life. I know he's driving a car. You know, Howard's worked all kinds of food, service jobs himself as a waiter, a busboy or a short order cook.

10 (59m 10s):
And he says that as a result, he absolutely loads the feeling of being served. There's something that just feels embarrassing and a natural about it, but it even goes further than that in his interactions with the service industry, he's looking for a particular feeling, a kind of cozy moment where he can palpably sense that the waiter has forgotten that he is a waiter and that they are both simply relating as human beings. And then once he knows This once he knows they're both getting along and everyone's happy he can move on. He isn't looking for anything else from them. His motives are pure that way, but these kinds of special moments don't come without strings attached.

10 (59m 51s):
And sometimes Howard gets into trouble. Earlier in the day during our walking tour, there was one place we didn't stop into a little convenience store around the corner. Howard became uncharacteristically, somber and quiet as we walked by the storefront window. The owner's a Greek woman in her sixties named Moolah and her older sister used to be pretty friendly with him. Sometimes Viola wouldn't charge on the tax on his chocolate bar. And on occasion she'd have him sit behind the counter with her on a plastic milk crate. It wasn't much, but it was still more than what the other customers, God, and it made Howard feel special. But then at a certain point, things started to get more intense.

12 (1h 0m 34s):
There had been several hold-ups there on my knife point gunpoint. And I, you know, I felt really bad for them. I'd see them really shook up and the kind of tough ladies, but you know, they're alone. And I told them, I said, if you know, if you have any, anything, if there's any trouble or something, I'm just trying to coordinate, give me a call. And I really meant it like in, in, in case of emergency or, you know, just that there's someone they can call like some kind of a community effort, a community now, but she started, she would call every day.

10 (1h 1m 2s):
She would call them for all kinds of reasons to have them come by and fix things or to run errands for her. And he would try his best to be accommodating. She'd even call him just to chat. Even though all of this was more than Howard could shoulder, he was reluctant to put an end to it. It was only after the calls got later into the night at one and two in the morning that Howard's friends started insisting. He tell her that enough was enough and against his better judgment he did. So Howard wonder is if it was right to give her his number in the first place

12 (1h 1m 33s):
I made that offer, assuming that, that it would be understood that there's a cutoff point, but to another person, you know, that offers it is a real genuine offer. If I need help, I'm going to call you. And she did. And, and maybe she's the one that's right. You know, so it's ironic that, you know, just, you know, like being nice to someone who actually have the adverse effect, the opposite effect and it, and it ended up being like a disaster. And like now two people are not even friendly with each other.

10 (1h 2m 4s):
There have been other disasters for Howard disasters where he was the one who went a little too far. Like there's a time he became so consumed with helping this neighborhood, Chinese restaurant that without being asked, he took it upon himself to draw pamphlets for the place, the owner Howard's flyers, but never circulated them later. The owner picked a screaming fight with Howard over in order and Howard never went back. And then there was the time he brought in beautiful framed photos of Lebanon to his favorite Lebanese restaurant. So they could be reminded of home, but the photos were never hung up nor were they ever referred to again. But for Howard, those things don't matter. And I know that he'd probably even do them all again, there are so many other moments that make as good intentions feel repaid and full.

10 (1h 2m 52s):
Some of his favorites are when delivery many nos passing by in their cars. As he's walking down the street, it shocks him out of his reverie when they honk their horns in a quick affectionate burst for a brief moment, it feels like a reassuring slap on the back. Howard thinks to himself that they're the best. And it fills them with so much gratitude that if he had a pear or a peach in his coat pocket, he would wave them over and give it to them.

1 (1h 3m 24s):
Goldstein is the host of the podcast, heavyweight, which just finished his fifth season. I hardly recommend it. Great stories. You can hear it on Spotify or wherever else you get. Your podcasts

9 (1h 3m 41s):
<inaudible>

1 (1h 3m 57s):
Program was produced today by nor Gale with mixing help from stone Nelson, Beth Lake and Matt Tierney special. Thanks today to the restaurant, Aurora and Brooklyn, who let us use their kitchen for our calamari a taste test and act one on our website. This American life.org we can do over 700 episodes of our program for absolutely free is a marathon Life is to go out to the public radio station's by P R X, the public radio exchange board for this American life comes from Sitka salmon chairs, the community supported fishery, delivering seasonal shares of traceable, wild Alaska seafood, meet their fleet, access recipes and order@sitkasalmonshares.com. Use code Tal for a special discount.

1 (1h 4m 37s):
Thanks as always to a program's co-founder mr. <inaudible>, you know, after a hard day at the radio station, as he heads home, he always turns and declares to all of us on his way out the door.

9 (1h 4m 53s):
I'm Erica

1 (1h 4m 54s):
Back next week, the more stories of this American life

9 (1h 4m 57s):
<inaudible>.