0 (1s):
A quick warning. There are a curse words that are under beeped in today's episode of the show. If you prefer a beeper version, you can find that@ourwebsitethisamericanlife.org. Okay. So let's begin. Today's Pokemon with a story about a 25 year old reporter, namely me at 25. Is that a better way you was on an NPR program called let's hear it way. I have to say, I think the 25 year old me would find this intro that I'm doing right now to this story to be kind of a mumbly and understated. Here's how 25 year old me kicked off his story

1 (38s):
And now true to life adventure stories. Yeah. I had a flare.

0 (46s):
That's how we talked back then. When the radio today's adventure story began this way, I was sitting outside the office of Betty Bird. She's one of the producers of this radio program and she's blind. Okay. I'm just going to stop the tape right there. I have so much to say about this, but I'm just going to let this play for a minute or two first stay with me here. Okay. I'm outside Betty Burt's office. And I overheard her tell this story. She was walking down the street. She was with a friend and some woman, a complete stranger walks up to the two of them, catches up to the two of them. And the stranger says,

1 (1m 18s):
Well, how did you lose your sight? And I said, I don't usually share that with anybody except friends. And she said, well, I just want to know. I just, I just want to know, when did you lose your sight and how did it happen? And I said, well, I don't really care to discuss that with strangers. And she's a, well, hi. I don't know why you certainly don't have a very Christian attitude. You should be grateful. I've given money to the blind. You should be grateful. I said, you've never given any money to me, lady and cross the street to get away from her.

0 (1m 52s):
And when I heard the story, I got really excited and that's because the woman who have been involved with it for the past three years, her name is Carrie goes, Shane has these sorts of experiences with strangers on the street. Sorry. I just can't help myself. I have to ask this again. Could there be a more awkward way to say my girlfriend then the woman I've been involved with for the past three years? Anyway, my girlfriend, Carrie, who is not blind by the way, she's only got one full arm. Her left arm stops at the elbow and complete strangers have approached her on the street to ask her what happened to her arm. So I didn't say anything about Carrie to Betty at the time I was just eavesdropping, but I did go home and tell Carrie about Betty story.

0 (2m 32s):
And her response was

1 (2m 33s):
Shock and excitement of recognition. I have been pretty isolated from other people who are disabled for a number of complicated reasons, but I just have never been in a position to really trade those stories with anybody or to hear that other people had the same experience than I did.

0 (2m 56s):
So we decided to try to capture stories like this, true to adventures with strangers, approaching disabled people on the street for other disabled people and for able-bodied people to hear, I talked to five people, including Carrie and Betty here's Donna Vino. And this is one is a series of personal stories. I'll have a headset, a pretty good tool by great, funny talkers me jumping in now. And then with narration to point out some bigger lessons that were supposed to draw from the stories, playing this for my girlfriend this week, excuse me, playing This for the woman who had been involved with for the last year and a half. She had this reaction, which was like, it's clear what you're trying to make and who you want to be, but you're not doing it right. And I think that's a good way to put it.

0 (3m 37s):
I was vaguely stumbling on my way to making the radio show that you were listening to right now, the second where people come on and tell personal stories. But at 25, all the moves I make are really clunky. I'm trying so hard, like near the end of the story. When I try to point out some bigger idea from the story, it could not be more didactic. Now, if you're an able-bodied person listening to this, I don't want to leave you now with fear somehow, or leave you scared that you'll say the wrong thing to some disabled person. Here are three general rules that you can follow. Number one, you shouldn't offer help to someone unless they actually will like they need help. And in that case, you should go up to them and you should ask them first, if they want your help.

0 (4m 20s):
It's really crazy that I thought that it would be necessary to say this. After, at that point 11 minutes of stories, where non-disabled people walk up to people with disabilities and make complete jackasses of themselves. I have to say, I was surprised listening back to this recording, how good the interviews are like that part of it I had down and also by my sheer desire to entertain this story was the kickoff to a series of stories about awkward encounters between people with disabilities and non-disabled people. And am I signing up to the story? You can here a little bit of how I sound today. Yes, but also a little bit of the teenage magician that I had been, not that long before This this is IRA glass.

0 (5m 1s):
I'll be back next week with more true to life, adventure stories, music.

2 (5m 11s):
Next week, we are here to do a Life adventure stories from dinner parties. People tend to,

0 (5m 18s):
Okay, then there's a clip from the next week story. And then tales of embarrassment,

2 (5m 23s):
The inappropriate behavior by able-bodied people next week on this public radio program.

0 (5m 34s):
This version of the story around a month before my 25th birthday, and then another version minus the organ music rant on all things considered a month after that birthday. And that point, I was not a beginner in radio. I've been doing radio for six years. And at the time I really wondered if I ever was

2 (5m 49s):
Going to get it. Like I was a freelancer

0 (5m 51s):
And I was so slow at making radio stories, that to earn money. I also worked as a temp secretary and I would hear the NPR reporters that I admired the most cranking out these like perfect little gems of stories in a day or two. And it was like the head. Some I know there's a super power that was somehow unavailable to me. No matter how hard I tried at 25, I was still figuring a lot of things out. And I bring this up today because this fall March the 25th anniversary of our program, this American life, and rather than spend an hour looking back, it seemed more interesting to do a show about what it means to be 25. Like not what it means for a radio show to be 25 cars who cares what it means for a person to be 25.

0 (6m 36s):
It's such a particular age. You know, you were an adult, but you knew enough to it, that it still can feel like you have a long way to go to turn yourself into the person you want to be. So today on our show, we've collected a bunch of stories about all kinds of 25 year olds. Some of them were struggling. Some of them focused and accomplished and not struggling at all. And then a couple who are somewhere in between from WBZ, Chicago, it's This American Life IRA, glass stay with us. <inaudible> 29 versus 19. So our first story in today's a program is reported by one of the youngest people on our staff, nor Gale who is 25.

0 (7m 20s):
When she applied for her job. Here she is now 26. Hi, nor hi IRA. So nor before you get to the person who you're doing your story about, it can just take a second and remind older people what it is like to be the young least experienced person in some workplace.

3 (7m 36s):
I think it's like, it's scary because you're trying to prove to people that you're not an idiot, but then you think you're an idiot too. So it's just, it's hard. You worry about the smallest things, like stupid things. Like how I would send an email or like how I'm sitting in my chair. Like, I think you worry about how your coworkers are going to see you. And then you like start to realize that no one even cares. Like I've definitely shown up late and it made no difference. Like nobody was paying attention at all. Everyone else is like so busy, no one pays attention, but that's like a good thing.

3 (8m 21s):
Like once I realized that I didn't feel as stressed about every little thing.

0 (8m 29s):
Okay. So, so the story that you were put together, that people were here now it's about somebody who is 25 in the same kind of position that you're in, except on a job where the stakes are higher,

3 (8m 39s):
Right? Yeah. We hire.

0 (8m 42s):
All right, well take it from here.

3 (8m 45s):
I came across a profile on the New York times a summer, about a 25 year old who had a job that seemed very consequential, way more consequential than any iPad. She was a working at the biotech company, Regeneron part of the team racing to find a treatment for COVID were actual people's lives are on the line. And I remember thinking she's only 25. How'd you even get that job? Her name is Stephanie gr Danno. I wasn't the only person who saw the article and reached out.

4 (9m 16s):
Yeah. It was like teachers from high school teachers from college, every single one of my ex-boyfriend's moms. That's funny.

3 (9m 26s):
Why do you think you're the boyfriend's moms

4 (9m 29s):
Not to brag? I know I want the best to bring home to mom and dad in high school. So it's a category that was a superlative in my year book. You know, moms loved me, but like I'm polite.

3 (9m 47s):
Stephanie is nice to talk to. She laughs a lot. And she's funny. She has some pink in her hair working on a project like this. Wasn't some huge goal she'd set out for herself. She loves science, but she loves a lot of other stuff too. Back in January, she was living in New York city with her roommate and commuting to the suburbs for work at Regeneron headquarters. And it was then that COVID first became a part of her life much earlier than for most of us in the U S and long before, there are many confirmed cases or anything closed down. She first heard about it at work. It didn't think too much of it.

4 (10m 23s):
I guess it was like early, mid January when, like, it became like a topic of conversation, like in the lab, not really in like my social spheres, like with anyone outside of lab, it was like, honestly, the beginning, it was just sort of like chatting. It was like, let's just keep an eye on it and see how it spreads. It was like really just like a side idea at the time. And then it got really intense.

3 (10m 54s):
Regeneron has thousands of employees working on all sorts of things. Stephanie happened to sit right between the two people in her department who were spearheading the COVID project. Kristen, the leader sat next to her.

4 (11m 7s):
And then right behind me was bin Kenzo, who is also on the rapid response team.

3 (11m 13s):
The rapid response team wasn't working on a vaccine. They were making a drug to treat people who got COVID and help them recover. The idea was to make a cocktail of different antibodies to neutralize the virus. Christine and Vincenzo were talking about the plan constantly across Stephanie's desk. And Stephanie couldn't help, but over here, but she was busy with her own assignments until one night. This was still back in January, early in the outbreak. When she was getting ready to take the five 30 shuttle bus chair, a train back to the city. She saw Kristen and Vincente who were in for another late night and offered to stay back and help.

4 (11m 51s):
I saw like if set of hands were there and meant that they can go home at like 8:00 PM instead of like 9:30 PM. At that point, I didn't realize that one day would probably be a lot longer than just one day of taking the leader shuttle,

3 (12m 6s):
Raising your hand to be the one who stays late. This is something we know how to do at 25. I'm very familiar with this move. Within a few days, Stephanie had dropped all her other projects and was working full-time on the COVID treatment. Her team's project was to come up with a way to quickly screen, which antibodies actually worked against the virus as a part of that project Stephanie's assignment was to make what she calls a virus like particle a fake version of the coronavirus that could infect cells. It came down to testing hundreds of different recipes, getting the conditions exactly right. She was working long hours, lots of weekends.

3 (12m 47s):
As the team rushed to get the project in place. Her job was slowly becoming her entire life. At some point in February months before anyone who is wearing mass before COVID was even officially a pandemic, she started to get nervous, right. And the pack train everyday to work. So on March, she moved from her apartment in Manhattan to a temporary place near a Regeneron headquarters and threw herself fully into the project.

4 (13m 12s):
I was so excited. Yeah, it was a, it was just like a pretty huge undertaking. It was, I mean, it was a little sad. I felt really weird leaving the city. I felt weird. I like, I couldn't see anyone. So I didn't see my boyfriend for like almost two months. And it felt really, it felt really hard to like prioritize what, like at the time she was just like my job, just like putting like my job before a lot of things that I normally prioritize. But I just knew that like in my heart that this was going to be something much more important.

3 (13m 52s):
After that every day she'd wake up in her empty Airbnb drive, the seven minutes it took to get to the lab. We spend hours each day alone in that lab that had to be kept dark staring into a microscope. She'd stay there until around 10 or later only to drive back and do it all over again.

4 (14m 10s):
It was just really lonely. I've never, I have never lived alone without any roommates before. So that was really weird. It was a really quiet, like,

3 (14m 21s):
Was there a day a week that it was just like so lonely that you thought maybe you couldn't do do this anymore.

4 (14m 29s):
I just remember being up at like one 30 in the morning and the TV in the bedroom. I didn't really know how to use the remote cause I never really watched it and I just turned it on and it was on PBS and it was LCD sound systems like live recording. And like from like 2012. And when we meet incredibly sad and then they played the song, all my friends, which is just like this song about like, no matter what, like at the end of the day, whatever happens, like you'll have the people in your life. And like, they're always going to be with you. I was like in this apartment alone, doing God knows what haven't seen, anyone I love or care about.

4 (15m 15s):
And I don't know the next time that I will. And I were just like watching it. I just started hysterically crying, which is like really dramatic. But I think that was probably the lowest moment.

3 (15m 35s):
Well, outside of Stephanie's Airbnb in the lab, things were turning for the worst hospitals in New York, worried about having enough PPE. The schools, restaurants and bars started shutting down. There was one moment during those first few intense months of work that stood out to Stephanie. It was when she finally got one of the first key steps in the experiment to work. She was testing to see if for a virus like particles, the fake viruses were infecting cells and acting like the real thing to do this. She designed an experiment that would cause cells to glow green. If they were infected, she spent days trying to get the conditions. Right.

3 (16m 15s):
And then one day a week,

4 (16m 17s):
Like I was on the, unlike the Zeiss, one of our microscopes here, and you can like scan the whole plate and it's like 3000 images. And I just remember like, it hit like 1500 and I saw a green and I was like, Oh. And I just like ran out of the room and found my boss. And I was like, how does your boss react? I think, I think everyone else was like, yeah, it works. Like, of course, but for me, I was like,

3 (16m 53s):
When you're new and not used to things going right, even getting the smallest thing to work out can feel huge. Getting those cells to light up green was just a tiny step in a thousand other steps that ultimately worked out. Regeneron started testing their antibody cocktail in June. It was one of the treatments president Trump got back in October and it was just approved to be used in emergencies by the FDA last month. It's not a cure all, but the treatment has been shown to help some high risk patients. Do you ever feel like, like this is going to be a sports analogy, but like you're a rookie who played a couple innings on a team that one of the world series.

3 (17m 36s):
Do you ever feel like that?

4 (17m 37s):
Oh yeah. Yeah. That's actually a really good way to put it. I guess the stick with a sports analogy, you know, like a lot of the like in like big meetings and stuff. Like I would be like on the sidelines, you know, like listening in and even if it was like data that like, I helped like generate, I'd still be like, wow, who put that together? That looks amazing. You're so modest. Stephanie. I wish I could be like, I think I like, I can fluctuate between like thinking like I am a God who is not really, but like being like, wow, like I look awesome.

4 (18m 19s):
I'm doing awesome. I got a 401k. Yeah. That's better than me. I'm like, Oh, you know, I'm just like a regular idiot. Just trying to figure, do you think this is gonna be the biggest thing you'll ever do in your life? It's kind of sad to think of it like that, but I can't imagine being, being as impactful. Hopefully it doesn't end here. So it's, it's not all downhill from here. It might be, we may have a quarter-life crisis, you know, and let myself go. I don't know, but I hope not.

4 (18m 59s):
I'm hopeful about it. She told me

5 (19m 2s):
She knows she isn't some super genius. A lot of scientists could have done what she did. She just happened to be in the right place at the right time,

4 (19m 27s):
Like a butterfly.

0 (19m 28s):
So we turned next to another 25 year old who is already achieved some things in her life. In fact achieved at a level that most of us never get to. Even when we're older, her name is Caressa shields and she has won two Olympic gold medals in women's boxing. And in addition to that, all kinds of other championship titles and belts and accolades. But this year, this year, a 25, a big accomplishment was different with boxing shutdown for COVID. She bought a house. She bought a house on the outskirts of her hometown, Flint, Michigan Sujay Johnson has known ESSA for almost a decade. She made a radio story about Caressa with the documentary series, radio diaries, and then produce a film about her called T-Rex her fight for gold.

0 (20m 8s):
She got in touch again with Carissa to ask about this latest achievement.

5 (20m 13s):
The idea of Clarissa owning a house is wild to me because I've known her since she was 16. I met her at a boxing tournament in 2011, I was photographing and interviewing the women who were competing to be in the first ever Olympic team for women's boxing. It was Clarissa's first adult tournament and she made heads turn. She was faster and stronger than any other boxer. But what really caught my attention was this determined. Look in her eyes, that in the way she thumped her chest, when she won, like she was already the greatest Clarissa is one of my favorite. It's been a privilege to have a front row seat on her life all these years, including this new chapter ever since she was 16, she told me she wanted two things, a gold medal.

5 (20m 58s):
She got her first one a year later, and a house, a safe place for her in her family. Right. She gave me a little tour, but on FaceTime.

1 (21m 6s):
So here we are at my house. This is my fireplace here on top of my fireplace. I have of course my TV. Then I have the 20, 20 Barbie out of the year. That's my smoke detector having to change the batteries.

5 (21m 27s):
It's nice, not massive, but big brick and gray vinyl siding with generous. Window's a two car garage. It's got three bedrooms, a jacuzzi and the master bathroom, which was a big selling point. She says, when she first saw the living room, she thought she'd need three or four couches to fill the space. There's also a pool on the back that she says can fit about 20 people in a yard, in a dining room, along welcoming table set for eight. And at the head of it, a hint of her royalty,

1 (21m 55s):
The queen tier is down there. That's my is my chair. Oh, there are all the other chairs. Don't even have a study. Diamonds that windows, you have a chair started with real diamonds. Why not SU cause you have a throne. I don't know. Just the only piece of that. There's only two chairs. So it didn't like cause like that much. And then we come over here where I have my trophy case, which is only got one more drawer. The field turning 25. The most exciting thing that I've done is by my house. I'm like a big person with numbers. So 25, you know, two plus five is seven and seven is my favorite number. So I knew that something special that happened at 25 in my life, but I just didn't see me like buying, buying a house.

1 (22m 41s):
It all just kind of just happened. Just, I just feel like it's the opposite of what I grew up in

5 (22m 48s):
Clarissa never had a solid home for very long. Growing up, she lived at something like a dozen addresses before she was 17. Had to deal with all kinds of abuse and deprivation. And it started early. She was moved out of her mom's place when she was five.

1 (23m 2s):
And I live with my grandmother until the age of nine and all this time I spent away from my younger brothers and my sisters also to move back in with my mom, abusing alcohol and moved out from, with my mom and moving in with my coach, Jason, that was my decision.

5 (23m 23s):
Jason and his wife, Mickey Claressa calls her mama Mickey. That was when she was 17. The first time she had her own bed, her own room, she was there a little more than a year. Then started living on her own, lived in Colorado for a couple of years in Florida for a couple more. I was rented. So now having an entire house of her own, it's a big deal. And I

1 (23m 46s):
Have to say I've had some great moments in my life as I am a two time Olympic gold medalist and nine time world champion in three division world champion, faster than any other mailbox or in history, but any of the box or in history period. But when I got the keys to my house, it was over whelming feeling of like joy and internal happiness of knowing that I'll never be homeless every year of my life. Like I would never have to worry about where I'm going to live. You know, my family, if they need somewhere to come stay, if I can't find them somewhere to stay, I always have an extra room for them.

1 (24m 33s):
And just gave me like this whole sense of just like you really grown. Now, I'm in a way I have a therapist now just to help me deal with the stress of just not being able to fight

5 (24m 51s):
All of her fights were canceled this year because of coronavirus. She says it's been really hard on her

1 (24m 56s):
Because I'm used to fight in all the time and being on TV and always being on the go. And it's like having to deal with all the trolls on Instagram and Twitter and just deal with life in general and how to express my emotions now with anger, but, and not with tears and not sinking into a depression. Depression has got too hard to deal with it by myself. So that's 25 year old decisions putting yourself in therapy. Yeah. I couldn't imagine being 17, only in a house like it just wouldn't work out.

1 (25m 40s):
Like I would, I would throw parties all the time

5 (25m 45s):
To paraphrase Corinthians. When Claressa was a kid, she had the dreams of a kid. She told me when she was 16, that she wanted to have 10 children by the age of 26, not factoring in the difficult math of that or how 10 pregnancies might affect her boxing career. She laughs about that now, but the spirit of that dream has stayed with her surrounding herself, with the family, being a protector and slowly the details became more realistic. She thought winning the gold medals would lead to a bunch of endorsement deals and that she could buy a house, not just for herself, but for her mom, preferably somewhere other than Flint, which can be pretty rough. But the endorsements didn't materialize. So she made the transition from the amateurs to the pros, started earning a steady living as a boxer.

5 (26m 28s):
And she thought she could at least convince her family to move away with her, which is why it was surprising to me that she wound up with a house in Flint. I remember the goal that you had was to get out of Flint. That was one of the reasons why you wanted to get the gold medal so that you and your family could get out of Flint is you wouldn't have to live there.

1 (26m 50s):
I just know I wanted a better life for myself. You know, I want it to be more financially stable. I wanted to have, you know, food a bit. So I don't really think it was like not being inflated, I think is more of like, I just don't want to be poor.

5 (27m 4s):
And what about like getting your family out? They used to talk a lot about getting your family out a Flint to like, you know, keep them safe

1 (27m 10s):
Over time. I've also tried that like when I moved to Florida, my younger brother move with me, but my younger sister, my mother wouldn't wouldn't come. It was like, all right. So now I'm just in Florida with none of my family, except my little brother. Y'all be quiet a little bit.

5 (27m 28s):
While we were talking, four of Clarissa's nieces were huddled together on the big gray sectional sofa in the living room, her nieces and nephews over a lot. These days, playing video games, jumping in the pool, she's strict with them. Sometimes when the house gets messy, she makes her nephew fat daddy do the vacuuming, but she likes having them all there. And there aren't 10 of them. There are 11 she's filled her house with a bevy of kids. Like she wanted just not in the way she expected, which is true generally for her, the moment the life she has now with the house in Flint. It's not what she imagined, but it fits all our needs and desires. It's what boxers do. They respond to? What's thrown at them and they adjust, but she says, this isn't the end.

5 (28m 11s):
She still has big dreams. In fact, she just announced that she signed a multi-year deal to be a mixed martial arts fighter, where the money is better for women. She wants to buy a second house, a mansion in Vegas.

6 (28m 31s):
To

0 (28m 32s):
She's a writer and filmmaker, her film. T-Rex about Caressa journey to the Olympics. You can find@pbs.org

6 (28m 41s):
Coming

0 (28m 41s):
Up a woman at 25, who decides after years of saying no to her parents about something to try it there a way for ones that's an a minute from Chicago, Bubba radio. When our program continues this American life, Myra glass today's program, 25 to commemorate our 25th year on the air. We have stories today about people, human beings, who were created the same year as our program. We have stories of 25 year olds. And I just want to note before we go to the next story, that the one other thing that we have done to Mark our 25th year is that we set up a webpage with a list of favorite episodes from all over the years. It has a very easy to remember address. This American life.org/ 25 years.

0 (29m 24s):
And if you go there, you'll see a mix of like audience favorites, but also like some deep cuts. I bet you have never heard, or you probably don't remember if you did hear my personal suggestion among those. Okay. Is, is a show called I am from the private sector and I'm here to help. Or Nancy Updike takes you into this world of like, not the American, but the private contractors who worked alongside the military in Baghdad in 2004. And the episode is like part, I don't know, like the office or Veep and part, you know, like a war. There was a lot of the shows in addition to that one ready for your holiday listening while you're cooking or shopping online or whatever. Anyway, This, American life.org/ 25 years. And with that, we have arrived at act three of our show, act three, the rest of his life.

0 (30m 8s):
So some of us here with the radio show read this essay back in June that really got to us that Mitchell S Jackson wrote about a 25 year old, the essays about a mod Arbery who was 25 when he was pursued by three white men in Georgia and shot to death while I'd for a run, the essay was published in runner's world magazine. And as you'll hear it leans into the running part of the things just go a little bit, but it's also so much more than that. Mitchell talked to Ahmad's closest friends and his family members to create a portrait of a modern Aubrey. That is really unlike anything else we had seen about him. We asked Metro to adapt a version of his essay for our program. Today, here he is

7 (30m 47s):
Ahmad Aubrey, by all accounts, love to run, but he wasn't by his own account. A runner, there is no evidence of my training for 10 Keynes or a full or half marathons or obsessing over his miles or PR times, but he loved him. My would run into the white tee shirt and khaki shorts. He'd ran shirtless and basketball shorts. He ran in a tank top and hoop shoes. As it is, day one, homeboy came something he could run in anything. When King was home from college, he and my dad would cruise to one end of the longest spanning bridge and all of Georgia, they do some up stretching and jot back and forth.

7 (31m 27s):
The cross it at a distance of just under three miles, the pair would keep a steady pace, but sometimes Keem says Mike would push him on February 23rd of this year. Mike went out for a run. The location of this run was a subdivision in Glen County called scintilla shores. It's a neighborhood and waterfront properties of upper and middle class families who have retired folk and fresh transplants. No one can know for sure the route he took before regions until the shores, but he'd set off from his home. So that means there is a good chance to work on his run. He passed home is flying a Confederate flag or the don't tread on me, got some flag and hella homes warning, no trespassing on February 23rd.

7 (32m 17s):
When mom went jogging, he was dressed in light color, low top Nike's on a white t-shirt and khaki cargo shorts Mott who is 25 years old, jogged alone mods family home in Brunswick. The one where he landed at the time, he was, is a mere two miles from scintilla shores, but in meaningful ways, it's almost another country. Matter of fact, the poverty rate of what a young black residents call the wick is a staggering 38%. The wick is where mod Marquez R Ray was born on May 8th, 1994.

7 (33m 1s):
He was a third beloved child of wander Cooper Jones and Marcus Arbery senior. Their working class family included his older brother, Marcus buck, Jr. And sister Jasmine, the family called a mod cares or a shortened version of his middle name. While his friends called a mod. Mine had a slight gap in his front teeth and dark skin forever burnished by hours outside when Mark was a middle-school the family moved to a small white house on breaking Ridge drive, where my continued to share a room with his brother per his big bro buck ma was the slop in high school. My landed a gig at the local McDonald's.

7 (33m 43s):
He did it to keep some scratch in his pocket, but also to help his mother who often worked two jobs. Some days mods, homeboy keen would swoop him from work in a wheel, them to the golden Isles Y YMCA, they would hoop on a workout for six or seven hours straight before bobbing over to the Glen place mall for the fries and wing combo at American deli and head right back for boucoup hours. More of playing and training back then modern favorite slim jeans, bright colored polos, and rugby's and camped his hair short and low with the crispiest Avenger ups. Mark played football from the P mean through high school and ended up an undersized varsity linebacker, but he was also a team captain who led his Brunswick high school pirates and pregame chance.

7 (34m 33s):
They'll never caught a diesel strong mind on a super hard and fearlessness on the field, and often astonished his coaches for the big hits and his senior year made the story, Florida, Georgia Wharf, the border all-star game, not to mention this was South Georgia football. So my competing and league that produced pros and play before some of the biggest high school football crowds in the country before he was an all-star though my tore, his ACL and meniscus in a JV game, while a less dedicated player who might've given up, he committed to a laborious rehab. His junior year, he wore a leg brace, a hindrance that diminished his chance of playing in college.

7 (35m 18s):
Like my God, I was a passionate high school athlete. My sport was hoop. Like-mind no major college program offered me a scholarship, both mine and me intended small schools in our home state, my quit after a year and returned in Brunswick and his mother's home. I to quit my first community college, but unlike my, there was no need to return home to my mother's cramped apartment is I was living there all the while. The year after we graduated, mom was arrested for carrying a gun and sentenced to five years of probation, which he violated by shoplifting. A few years after I graduated high school, I was arrested with drugs and a gun.

7 (35m 59s):
And since to 16 months in an Oregon state prison at 25 ma was a runner. When every reason to believe his life had more miles ahead of it.

8 (36m 9s):
The behind the house at 25, I enrolled in the first of two graduate writing programs today. My dear God, Y is dead. And I by grace, I'm a writer professor hurtling toward the middle age in and wonderful

7 (36m 31s):
Or a PM on February the 23rd, the security camera shows 25 year old, a mod Aubrey winding up a sunny patch of narrow road and stopping on the lawn of a sand colored under construction, bungalow addressed

8 (36m 45s):
20 to the tiller drive, man.

7 (36m 48s):
But he wondered what the skeleton of beams and sheet rock and piping and wire would look like when

8 (36m 52s):
It was finished. Maybe he

7 (36m 54s):
Imagined a family who could afford to live in a place. So close to the water. What we know for sure is that while inside my touch, none of the construction materials lane about, we also know that ma wasn't the first person whose curiosity urged them into the site. Security cameras recorded a white couple when evening a pair of white boys one day and on four occasions, what appears to be the same person, a slim young black man with wild, natural hair and tattoos on his shoulders and arms. The homeowner will confirm that nothing was ever stolen or damaged during any of the visits at 1:07 PM, a neighbor spine, Ahmad called nine one one.

7 (37m 38s):
There's a guy in the house right now. He told the dispatcher and went on to describe my black guy, white tee shirt. The dispatcher replied. I just need to know what he was doing wrong. The collar watched my leave. The site he'd run it down the street. He said to the dispatcher, my jog past the house, located a few doors down of another neighbor, Gregory McMichael, an ex cop that had once had his power to arrest stripped for failing to attend. Use of force training Gregory and his son, Travis McMichael armed themselves, the sun with a shotgun and the father with the three 57 and hopped in a white Ford pickup truck from his front yard.

7 (38m 23s):
William Roddy. Brian saw his neighbors hounding my jumped in his pickup and joined the chase mud, ran in deviled back to elude the mic. Michael's maybe recalling the times he juked the Woodby tackler on the field only to find himself facing down. Brian's pick up the outer mic. Michael Gregory climbed into the bed of his son's truck. The one with the Confederate decal toolbox armed with this three 57, he called nine one one. There was a black male running down the street. Gregory told dispatch, marred fled for minutes. That must have felt like an eon.

7 (39m 5s):
He found himself running toward a red face. Travis McMichael, who stood inside the door of his truck with the shotgun name, bod zag one way. And the other stopped right there. Dammit. Stop shot at Gregory. Mark crossed in front of the hood of the truck where Travis headed them off and shot him in no more than a heartbeat. The buck shot hit more in the chest, puncturing his right lung ribs and sternum, and yet somehow the rest of with Travis for the shotgun. And yet somehow he managed to punch at him, fighting from what he must have sensed was the rest of his life. Travis fired a shot gun. A second time, Grazie mods hand, he fired a third point blank shot this time piercing Modd in his upper chest, shotgun and hand.

7 (39m 54s):
Travis backed away. Watch mod collapse and may not the slightest effort to tend him. Part of the police report. His father still clutching his revolver, ran to where my lay face down blood leaking out of his wounds, rolled him on his back and checked for weapons that he nor no one else found Glenn County police sirens on To Tila drive within seconds of the slain, the court at the scene and investigating, they questioned them at Michael's Gregory's hands bloody from rolling mod onto his back. They also questioned William Bryan and in an act that it is self Another violence.

7 (40m 34s):
They let off, we go about their Merry way is free man Ramos almost three months. But before those squad cars reached the scene, Travis McMichael per Brian's statement to investigators in may called the 25 year old who's Life. He just sees it's a fucking inward ask yourself who deserves to run? Who has the right ask yourself? Who is a runner? What do they look like? Ask yourself, where do they live? And what do they run and where can't they live and where can't they run past one of the sanctions for a starting the right to live and run or a goddamn.

7 (41m 20s):
You mean to even exist in the world. In question that too, the NAACP wants to find lynching as a death. In which one, there was evidence that a person was to the death was illegal in three, a group of at least three actors participated in the killing on February 23rd, 2020, a black man out for a run was lynched in Glenn County, Georgia. He was 25 years young. His name was a mild Marquez. Arbery called cares by his beloveds and mod by most others. And what I want you to know about God is that he had a gift for impressions and a special knack for mimicking Martin Lawrence.

7 (42m 5s):
And what I want you to know about mod is that it was fond of sweets and requested his mother's fudge cake for the birthday parties. You often share it with his big sister that he signed the cards he bought for his mother, baby boy, that he jammed his pinky hooping in high school. And instead of getting it treated like his sister, Jasmine advis, he let it heal on its own forever bent. What I want you to know about mod is that the love of his short life Shaniece told me he sometimes recorded the conversations. So he could listen to her voice when they were apart, which you should know about. My God is that he adored his nephew is Marcus the third and Mike in our brain. And when they were upset as babies he'd take them for long walks in a stroller until they calmed, which you should know about mod is that when a college friend asks his big sister, which parents she called first of ever in serious trouble, she said, neither that she call him.

7 (43m 1s):
What I want you to know about God is that he was an avid kind of sewer with a McChicken sandwich with cheese. You should know that my dream to have a career as an electrician and have owning a construction company, you should know that he told his boys that he wanted them all to, by a huge plot of land, build houses on it and live in a gated community with their families. We should know that my, I never flew on a plane. The wanderlust lasted for trips to Jamaica, Africa, Japan. What you must know about mind is that when Travis McMichael, Gregory McMichael and William bratty, Brian stalked and killed him less than three months shy of his 26th birthday. He left behind his mother, Wanda, his father, Marcus, Sr, his brother buck, his sister, Jasmine, his maternal grandmother.

7 (43m 47s):
Ella is nephews, six uncles, tenants, a host of cousins, all of whom are unimaginably there. We have a complete incontrovertibly poor from his absence, a mild Marquez. Our brain was more than a viral video. He was more than a hashtag or a name. When a list of tragic victims, he was more than a headline or an op-ed or a news package where the news cycle, which is more than a retweet or share posts, he doubtless was more than our likes, who are emoji, tears, or hearts or praying hands. He was more than a rip t-shirt or placard. He for damn sure was more than a latest reason for you're a liberal and white friends, a femoral outrage.

7 (44m 31s):
He was more than a rally

2 (44m 32s):
Or a March who was more than a symbol, more than a movement, more than a cause. He was loved

0 (44m 45s):
Mitchell, Les Jackson, the full essay that he wrote about him out of Arbery. You can read online. It was in runners world. He's a poet or a fiction writer. His latest book has a memoir. It is called survival math notes on an all American family. They make Michael's and William Bryan had been indicted or nine charges each, including malice murder and four counts of felony murder. All three men, we did not have

2 (45m 6s):
Guilty. You catch who does this father with a nappy head Christ be pave with gong.

0 (45m 46s):
The bachelorette in Arlington, Lena Mohammad turned 25 this July, and maybe the last place that she expected to be back at a parent's house in Texas. She had fought hard to get out of that home. Her parents, Palestinian with traditional values and have the four kids in her family. Lena is the only one to move out before getting married and without getting married, she moved away to pursue a career. Being independent is very important to her, but then COVID hit. We have to explain what happened

9 (46m 15s):
After two months in lockdown, a alone, I thought I was doing okay. But when I did a story for my job at the Washington post, where I admitted to a former prisoner who was kept in solitary confinement in Aidan, that I was losing my mind. And did he have any advice on how I could cope? My boss gently suggested that maybe moving home to Texas back in with my parents was a way to go. It was a hard decision to make, to my surprise. Being home was actually fun. I forgot how much my parents act like comedy duo. They make fun of each other. When my dad, who I call Baba misplaces, his tools, he'll start yelling and gesturing wildly mama will start mimicking him until he realizes how ridiculous he looks and laughs I'm their only child who grew up in both Jordan and the U S so the one thing they're in Alliance on is making fun of how American I am This was the good side of being home.

9 (47m 13s):
The bad side. I was immediately reminded of all the ways my parents felt responsible for directing my life. Mama interrupted a work zoom meeting to tell me, to make my bed and were like Misha, learn a lot of, to be held him as a belly, which means please, for the sake of God, clean this dumpster, we also get into screaming matches about how I don't pray enough, which is a funny thing to scream about. And always we fight about the fact that I am not yet married. I'd be fixing my hijab in the kitchen and she'd sneak up behind me. Lena, if you wear it, highlight that your hairline will recede and you'll end up alone. What?

9 (47m 53s):
I'm only trying to help in her eyes. I should have gotten married by at least 23. And now I was about to turn 25, which sent mama into panic mode. 25 for many Arab women like me turning 25 feels like the cutoff age for eligibility. Especially if you come from a lower class family, which I do. I grew up hearing about that age and fearing it at 25, you start getting called the harness, which means spinster mama will say, do you think you're still young? Of course, I'm still young to a chore respond.

9 (48m 35s):
<inaudible> which means other girls, your age have so many kids it's uncountable. The thing is they act like I don't want to get married, but I do. I want to find someone. In fact, I always imagined I'd be married by now. I just didn't want to do it the way my parents expected a traditional arranged marriage. I thought it would happen naturally. It hasn't. I even almost got married when I was 19, but that was a disaster. Since then, I've tried my way. I've dated in college. I've also used Tinder, Bumble mender, which is the Muslim Tinder and mismatch.

9 (49m 15s):
And unfortunately named Muslim dating app. It has not worked. One guy really understood the Arab side of me, but couldn't speak English. Another was so funny. But look down on women who swore the guy I was engaged to was charming, but so controlling that he was adamantly opposed to me interviewing men, which is hard when you're a journalist after all that, I was still alone. So a few weeks before my 25th birthday, when mama got a call seemingly out of the blue about an eligible boy, I did something I'd never done before. I said, okay, I'll meet him partly to please her and get her off my back.

9 (49m 56s):
And partly because I realized if I was so bad at choosing for myself who is to say, my parents can do better. So I agree to a traditional setup. Our mothers arranged for our first date with both sets of parents in my family's living room, mama helped me get ready. As I was getting dressed. She reminded me of all the things I couldn't do. Don't you dare tell him that you have PCO, Wes that's polycystic ovarian syndrome. It could make him worried. You can't have kids. Don't bring up that you've taken antidepressants, have anxiety, or that you go to therapy or that you were married. It was technically just an engagement or that you've ever dated before.

9 (50m 37s):
If he asks about any of this change, the subject, my date arrived. He was actually kind of cute in person, but it was awkward. I mean, our parents were on a date with us though. It became a rare glimpse into what my parents who are like on date. Mama turns out is an oversharer and Baba is super chill on these living room Gates. I shouldn't be the one asking the questions because it's considered the man's job to initiate all conversation. But the guys in saying anything, so Baba jumped in acting like my stand-in. He knows what I'm looking for in a guy. So all his questions were secretly related to my deal.

9 (51m 17s):
Breakers. Like I want to be with someone who speaks Arabic, Baba started grilling him. How good is your Arabic? Can you read and write his mom answered for him? Of course he can suddenly the two parents were battling it out. Baba said, can you recite quote on his mother jumped in? Yes. And his voice is so beautiful. The guy interrupted her. Actually I can't. I burst out laughing. I was on the fence. This man wouldn't even make eye contact with me. Okay. So he's a shy guy. That means I'd have to drastically tone myself down. But then when he told Baba that for his job, he can live and work anywhere.

9 (52m 0s):
I got excited. Other guys had always expected me to give up my career and follow theirs. But this guy I could keep my job and he could tag along. So what if we have nothing else in common? But then his mom started talking to me. I was telling her about my life in DC, blah, blah, blah. When she caught me off and said, okay, yeah, I saw that in the ad. My mind just completely stopped the ad. I try not to show her that I was clearly surprised, but in my head I was like, what the fuck is this woman talking about? What ad? I thought someone just happened to suggest who are mothers that we meet. But there was an ad mama who clearly heard this To acted like she didn't.

9 (52m 46s):
They changed the subject. But by the time we got to coffee, it was all I could think about. As soon as they left, mama explained it wasn't her who put the ad out. It was a friend, but mama left it up and kept it from me because she thought I'd hate it. I found the ad. I hate it. It starts with an line of pink, emoji, flowers and emoji. I would never use by the way. Then it reads 25 year old Palestinian born in Jordan, living in the U S since 2012, studied here. Beautiful, fair skin, blue eyes, veiled, beautiful <inaudible> plus be the most gracious.

9 (53m 29s):
There is no power except an a Allah. She got married without sexual relations. That's referring to the engagement I broke off. Her request is a highly educated young man. Contact me for the mother's number, serious inquiries, only everything about it makes me cringe. The fact that it exists, the details that includes my eyes. Aren't even blue. I don't like what they're selling my white skin, my lack of sexual relations. It doesn't include anything about me that I'm proud of or anything that actually mattered. The ad lays out. So plainly the enormous gap between who I am and who I would need to be to match with someone in my community.

9 (54m 11s):
The description of this Lena is so far from me. It kind of hurts to read, looking at the ad. I realized I'm probably not going to find a partner. I want someone who's in between two worlds in the ways I am in the ways I want to keep being, it feels so final. I am 25 and there is no one for me, but for what it's worth. If I were to rewrite the ad, here's what it

6 (54m 41s):
Would say. Lena

9 (54m 44s):
25 wants to become a foreign correspondent, loves finding and making stories. She is religious in her own way. She fasts, but doesn't pray. She reads to the Koran daily, but has smoked weed before she has PCO. S goes to the therapy has been depressed, has had anxiety has a mustache and a beard will not relocate for a man's career will not erase herself for your approval. Worries. This means you will end up

6 (55m 20s):
Wait. I'm a Hobbit. She's a producer at the daily Washington post podcast, post reports. And you can find her. Yes, right now on Bumble.

6 (55m 34s):
<inaudible> like, <inaudible>

0 (56m 34s):
The song that you're hearing right now by 25 year old, Robbie Grote was written for our program. Today is formed by the Philadelphia band. The districts with Catherine vinyl

6 (56m 42s):
<inaudible>

0 (56m 53s):
Our program was produced today by Sean Cole and Diane Wu. The people who put together today's show includes a beam at a wound. Me, I want a Baker. Susan Burton. Ben Calhoun day on a trip is to be able to Cornfeld nor Guild Damien grave, Connie Jaffe, Walt <inaudible>, Stowe Nelson, Catherine Raymondo Ben failing Nadia, Raymond Robyn, semi and Lily Sullivan, Christopher Rotella and Matt Tierney, our managing editor. To Sarah Abdurrahman, senior editors. David Kestenbaum. Our executive editor is a manual Barry special. Thanks to David <inaudible> to the young Oliver Wang, Nina bead, Julian Brizzy, Jeremy Willis, Gina grip, Lucia and Joe Richmond, Tony householder, Jasmine and Becca <inaudible>. Alex might rush us and my myriad, Alex Lee, Katrina Montanez, and Dalea Jones. Quick reminder about the webpage that we have set up with favorite episodes from a variety of 25 years on the air.

0 (57m 36s):
There are a little blurb from me explaining what it is so special about each of the shows, the website address. So easy to remember. You could probably say it along with me right now, right? This American life.org/ 25 years. Those are the numbers. Two and five in there. This American life is to go to the public radio stations by PRX, the public radio exchange. It's a port for this American life comes from Sitka salmon. Chair's a community supported fishery. Livering seasonal shares of traceable, wild Alaska seafood meat, their fleet, access recipes, and order@sitkasalmonshares.com. Use code T a L for a special discount. Thanks as always your programs. Co-founder Mr. <inaudible>. You know, when he was 25, he was at Woodstock and you know, all the smoke in the air from all that weed toilet, it was not used to that at all.

0 (58m 23s):
Kept falling asleep. I'm on the band's played. He'd wake up now and then to say, yeah, be quiet

5 (58m 29s):
A little bit. I'm on a glass back

0 (58m 31s):
Next week with more true to life. Adventure stories hit it. My stroke.

6 (58m 37s):
<inaudible>

5 (58m 53s):
Next week on the podcast, this American life wildfire season, it's a lasting longer and longer in California for the teams that are fighting these massive fires month after month, it's like Groundhog day, wake up, fight the fire, come back, sleep, wake up and repeat is one guy. Put it on our work, low pay, miserable conditions. And the more you guys, why is that an official motto or official model living in a fire camp next week on the podcast or on your local public radio station?