0 (1s):
Support for this American life comes from capital one. Right now you can earn 100,000 bonus miles. You can actually use redeemable for vacation rentals, car rentals, and more. When you spend $20,000 in your first year with the capital one venture card, what's in your wallet. Limited time offer terms apply. See capital one.com for details. A quick warning. There are a curse words that are and beeped in today's episode of the show. If you prefer a beeped version, you can find that at our website, this American life.org to fight this massive fires out West, there are these camps hidden from view. If you are driving by, you might not even know that they're like one of the largest fires in California history.

0 (45s):
The Creek fire has a base camp for 700 people in the parking lot of a ski resort in central California, just outside Fresno. If you know where to go, the first thing that you see when you pull up to campus, these 20 somethings running back and forth with bright yellow fire hose, hundreds and hundreds of miles of it, the job is done in tango miles of hoses all day, every day. One of our producers Miki make record the sound that you're hearing right now to talk to these guys and Gooding RJ Brown, who was twenty-three in a dirt street, yellow jacket in a face mask with a Panda nose and mouth printed on it. The official motto of his employer, the California conservation Corps would send young people all over the state to do this kind of job,

1 (1m 27s):
Hard work, low pay, miserable conditions, and more you guys, why

0 (1m 32s):
Hardware is going to pay miserable conditions and more, that is the actual motto.

1 (1m 36s):
What's the best part of your job. And what is the worst part of your job is the best part I used to not hang on to start with the worst part. It's just the worst part. Isn't when, when they say, when you overhear on the walkie talkie, Oh, we got 60,000 layers of hoses coming in. And then once the 60 comes in and they bring in another 30. So what do you hear? 60,000 hoses coming over to the radio. What is going through your head when you hear that defeat? Like I want to go home. Oh, I'm like, Oh no, no, no. I don't really want to do this.

0 (2m 10s):
The way this job works is this trucks come back from the fire line at them, huge piles of jumbled hoses, five guys, and tangled them. And then with each hose, they take one end. All right, ready, everybody. Grab a quarter and sprint across the parking lot. Each of those is a hundred feet long, so it's kind of a long way to go. They get to choose one bright yellow hose next to another. Next to another to the whole parking lot is blanketed with tidy yellow hose.

1 (2m 37s):
What do you do to keep yourself safe? When you're rolling? Hoses are just be denoted by music in my head and I have already listened to, and it keeps, and it just keeps me going.

0 (2m 46s):
They're not allowed to wear headphones when this job is teammate, Corey, Ravi has a different strategy to deal with that.

1 (2m 52s):
I see and get out. And I tell everybody what songs on your mind lately can break my stride. That was like last night, I had to go straight to the history. I sailed away to China in a little row boat to find you ain't nobody got a break. So that song just keeps going in my head.

0 (3m 8s):
The next step, and this process, the wine, the hoses up in coils, put them on pallets, wrap them in plastic wrap and send them to be cleaned. After that, the hoses go out to the fire line again, then back to the hose, roll and cruise. Then back to the place where the queen over and over a week after week after week, which is a life of a fire camp, you had the same day over and over and over till the fire's out.

2 (3m 33s):
<inaudible>

0 (3m 40s):
When Nikki visited Creek fire had been going for nearly two months and burned more than 350,000 acres. That's over 500 square miles putting on a fire that large is a mammoth task. The base camp that Mickey met RJ and Korea had, it was like a mini city with a makeshift laundromat, the cafeteria, a mechanic shop, sleep trailers with triple bunk beds. Like most people at the camp. Corey and RJ worked 16 hour days and they sleep right on the asphalt, like right next, where they work intensive, pitched, they sleep in their uniforms so they can squeeze in a few extra minutes of rest each morning.

1 (4m 14s):
I was curious, what do you guys, what do you guys dream about at night? My dream yesterday was about hoses. It was about rolling hoses. I was so mad. Like, Ugh, I can't take no breaks, no days off

0 (4m 28s):
The thing about RJ inquiry, they love their jobs. Despite the repetitiveness and exhaustion for This RJ worked retail. I had a carwash, you had an office job coding. Now. It feels like they're part of something important and the team captains for their crew. And they have this can-do attitude that it's actually a kind of the culture of this camp.

1 (4m 49s):
Like I just make sure that the crew's PMA is always at its highest. Tell me what does that mean? Positive mental attitude. Either me and Ricky will say something like, Hey, yeah, just keeps the teammate up. If that is that a welder on the acronym? Yes. I've never heard of the acronym. I could use some more PMA in my life right now

0 (5m 6s):
With the fire season running longer than ever. It's seven or eight months out of the year. Now there's this entire ecosystem of people like RJ and Corey who swoop in and live in fire camps for months all over the West today on our program, we meet the people, putting these fires out during all kinds of jobs. You never think of to do it in this unusual situation where they have to push the same Boulder of the same Hill every single day. And in the second half of the program, we have a different large group of people who are battling a different, large sort of threat. And the stakes could not be higher. That would really trying to save the world from WB easy Chicago, this This American Life I'm Eric Glass,

2 (5m 44s):
This one, the extinguishers. So we'd heard

0 (5m 55s):
About these fire camps from Lizzie. She's a reporter at the San Francisco Chronicle and spends most of the year chasing fires around California, covering them and know so much about them. She took Miki and one of her other producers, Lily Sullivan to the fire camp, a Creek fire, and as the stories of the people they're and what they do on a daily life in this place, here's a glossy.

3 (6m 17s):
The drive up to the Creek fire base camp should of been beautiful. This is Anzel Adams country in the high Sierra, but the two lane highway was lined with trees that looked like charcoal toothpicks. The past houses were the only thing still standing where the chimneys, the local gas station reminded me of a Salvador Dali painting. The letter's on the big sign out front had melted dripping down like icicles. I've been to dozens of fire camps at the big ones. There's always a stand selling t-shirts printed with the year and the name of the fire. And you see firefighters wearing them. There is a predictable rhythm to daily life. With these camps. They start with a briefing right at 7:00 AM.

3 (7m 0s):
This is where everyone gets their orders at the Creek fire. This happens by the ski lift.

0 (7m 6s):
A quick roll call, a little T here, rolling here, gray back 17,

3 (7m 13s):
Over a hundred firefighters are here. It looked cold, tired wearing a wig, stocking caps and heavy jackets. Hundreds more are listening on the radio. This was day 48 of their fight against the Creek.

0 (7m 25s):
We are planning on your same work assignments today. We're just really controlling that perimeter and making sure nothing moves on us.

3 (7m 32s):
There's no way to put out a fire this big. So the best they can do is stop it from growing. The actual mechanics of that feels surprisingly primitive. Hundreds of crews spread out all along the fire's edge, working on their own little speck of land, scraping the ground down to a mineral dirt with chainsaws and shovels and bulldozers. So there's nothing left to burn when the wildfire gets there.

0 (7m 54s):
So be flexible is kind of a key too. If something changes where we need to move equipment around, that's kind of some of our reasoning for not getting rid of a ton of stuff yet, because I know you guys are kind of getting Groundhog day out there.

3 (8m 6s):
A lot of the top breasts, the incident command team spoke to the firefighters through two flat-screen TVs setup on a platform. They were at a command post more than an hour away. To me, it sounded like a County fair.

4 (8m 19s):
Right? Thanks John. Next up the fire behavior. Patty Johnson morning, the most, most gross yesterday was out in This Edison Lake area. Mainly closer to the South fork out here than any place else. I'm just for the folks on the field, lots of heavier fuels burning out. There are lots of smoke coming out of it. So make sure you take breaks with your being in the smoke. Every it's, you know, probably for some folks it's 24 hours of smoke that they're experiencing out there. I have a good day. Thanks day for safety,

3 (8m 53s):
A fixture out of gray smoke hung over the camp or the people at the center of the operation are the hot shot crews there. The most elite of the wildland firefighters dispatch to the hottest and the farthest corners of a blaze and the social hierarchy, a fire camps, the hot shot cruiser at the top. After the morning briefing I talked to Pete is in the parking lot and he is a squad boss for a hot shot crew out of LA County. His wife is also a wildland firefighter on a different crew. She drives a water truck called the tender. Pete told me that in the last month, they don't the overlapped it home one day, which was challenging with a two year old daughter.

5 (9m 30s):
We bounced back and forth between my family, her family and daycare.

3 (9m 39s):
That's a bunch of young guys from Ms. Crew sticking their heads out the windows of their Sherbert green vests. It's called a buggy tripping. Pete, Pete, keep the Phoenix. Is there a crew Loco,

5 (9m 50s):
The Phoenix or just a little bird?

3 (9m 54s):
How many times a day do you hear that?

5 (9m 56s):
Oh man. It's pretty constant. Do you like when they do that? I mean, not that I like it to look forward to it, but I think for me it tells me, okay, the guys who are good there and they are happy right now. So maybe sometimes when I don't hear it. Okay. Yeah. What's it going on? You know, you guys have to do something. Okay.

3 (10m 16s):
Pete's crew is called little Topanga are a little T for a short at 42. Pizza's been on the Cru. The longest. Some of the younger guys joke that he hatched from an egg at the fire station and keeps them all safe under his wing pizza, not just their boss. He's a life coach, a mentor, and a therapist all rolled into one, giving them advice on everything, from how to clean their chainsaws, to buying their first house. He even reminds them to pay their bills back at home.

5 (10m 43s):
It feels sometimes like, like I am there. Is there a dad? The reason is it's like that. 'cause I'm with them so much more than I am with my own family. Like I know what makes them go off what doesn't, how to calm them down, how to route them up when we need them to be

3 (11m 2s):
Pizza. On the shorter side, he's got school tattoos on his arms to remind himself that that's part of Life. The crew knows him from a school head. He keeps a book called the subtle art of not giving a fuck in the side compartment of his truck. He grew up in the East side of LA, still lives there as a kid, Pete says he never went camping or hiking, never even visited the mountains. He ended up in this job on a total fluke back in the early two thousands, the forest service was trying to hire more people of color.

5 (11m 31s):
I remember it came out of the LA times and it said hiring 500 firefighters is like from Paige and a saw my buddies came to me. I was the guy with the car like, Hey, can you take us to, This drop us off? You know, we want to go. I ended up taking them and us staying with them a couple hours in lane. I put in the application. So I think like a month, a half later, I get a call from the Stanislaus national forest offering me a, an apprenticeship. And the rest is history. I guess

3 (12m 3s):
A little T is now a majority Latino with a lot of first-generation firefighters. Like Pete kids of immigrants. Here's a typical day for the hot shots at camp. After that morning briefing, they load onto their buggies with backpacks crammed, with a chainsaw, a fuel tools and water. Their packs can weigh up to 50 pounds. They didn't carry their own stretcher. 'cause if one of them gets hurt there on their own, they then drive out on a narrow back country road to pull up alongside a mountain and start hiking into the wilderness. It's a brutal 2.8 mile check to their job site, no trail, no switchbacks, no signposts. They have to keep going back there for two weeks. Here's one of the rookies on little T Zach Hanson

6 (12m 45s):
Every day were like, we're doing it again. Again, we got to go out there and there is about a foot of Ash the whole time on the ground and your foot sinking into the ground. And then there's rocks under the Ash. So your boots are getting torn up on these big boulders, but the ashes, probably the biggest part, because you're just constantly bringing in Ash.

3 (13m 7s):
There are not issued protective breathing gear and smoke exposure may be why cancer rates are higher among firefighters.

6 (13m 14s):
I mean, for me, when I got to the top, I was spitting black. And when you're pushing at a pace hard like that, I was breathing out of my mouth most of the time, which you try not to do, but I was doing it. And so I just, my teeth were black. Everything was black. A whole crew was coughing. Like they had smoked cigarettes their whole life. I think we accepted it at some point like this is our life. Now we'll just keep going up there.

3 (13m 39s):
Every single day we had to return to the same area. A little patch of the Creek fire is about six miles long. The flames were threatening to blow out into a new part of the forest. The air was so smokey that planes couldn't get in to do regular water drops. So for most of their 16 hour Workday, little tea revved up their chainsaws and sliced down burning trees.

5 (14m 2s):
<inaudible>

3 (14m 7s):
They cleared huge piles of brush and branches with their hands and scraped down a dirt path with butter, essentially common gardening tools, rakes hoes axes. This path can be up to 30 feet wide. The goal is to give the fire no place to go. Sometimes they literally fight fire with fire, torching trees and brush. Before the wildfire can get there. They had one of those jobs. That's both monotonous and super dangerous all the while they have to be on the lookout for falling trees called snags there. One of the ways that hot shots get killed in the fields, little T ran into a lot of snags. Their first few days on the Creek fire. Here's one of the guys on the crew, Franklin, a junior

5 (14m 48s):
Pumping, your adrenaline is pumping. You're scared. You're worried. You're we

7 (14m 52s):
All like snag or a tree and we don't have to bail out and you can't control it. It could be just walking by the change of poop. And it falls in a big or small, no go to the trees are falling. What does that sound like? It's allowed crack. It feels suspenseful. Cause you don't know where it's coming because you're surrounded by trees and it's a big tree. It's a big boom. It shakes the ground.

5 (15m 12s):
It'll shake the ground. And so you feel that it's not, yeah. It's not a good feeling. It's definitely not a good feeling.

3 (15m 18s):
Again. Here's Pete has been hot shotting for more than a decade.

5 (15m 22s):
This has been trees that have fallen right where I was standing. Literally within seconds of me taking three steps, like fuck, that literally could have been okay. I got to clear my mind on this. Cause I, I got the rest of the assignment are the rest of my careers in the box I can do on that. But fuck man, that was closed. That could of been it.

3 (15m 49s):
There are so many ways you can get hurt or die on a wildfire. Firefighters get cut by chainsaws, crushed by boulders in IndyCar, Rex on dirt roads, little T was one set, a fire where a plane accidentally dumped thousands of gallons of flame retardant on a firefighter from another crew killing him. And then earlier this season, a squad boss like Pete died while fighting the Eldorado fire in Southern California, the flames burned over him afterward. Another member of the crew who'd been upset about his death, went missing suicide and PTSD have risen among Wildman firefighters. It feels like dumb luck that Pete hasn't seen a death on his own crew.

3 (16m 30s):
He is in charge, have a bunch of guys in their twenties. A lot of them are pretty new to this job. He can stop worrying even when they're off the fire and get to go home. He says they've gotten injured and even died in car accidents, tired and in a rush to get home after a fire, I've heard a lot of firefighters talk about this as a problem. Pete says his wife, Jen sometimes busts him for not being able to leave the guys back at work.

5 (16m 56s):
Sometimes I, I, I get this blank stare and then we're sitting in on the couch, right? I don't want you to be the general is watching TV. And she looks at me and right away her question always is, are you thinking about work? Are you thinking about the guys? Like, what are you thinking?

3 (17m 15s):
What is a romantic anti? And you're like, I'm thinking about Frank.

5 (17m 18s):
Yeah, yeah. Honestly, that, that does happen. You know? Ah, what are they doing right now? Like, Oh, I wonder if do they need help? Like, I don't want them to get hurt. Like I, I want to get back ready.

3 (17m 30s):
I'm curious because you spend so much time with these guys. Does it ever feel easier to be more like a dad to them than to your own children who you don't get to see very often?

5 (17m 42s):
Yeah, definitely. I mean, I don't know how to answer that other than yeah. Yeah. It is like that. Unfortunately, I guess. No, because I do see sometimes a difference in how I treat everybody in my family and how I treat these guys. Sometimes more understanding and more patient we're literally stuck with each other for seven, eight months out of the year. If the guy's getting in an argument or are not seeing eye to eye, you can't just walk away. You have to deal with it at the moment or it could potentially cost us our lives with the family.

5 (18m 23s):
You walk away and you'll come back a day later or whatever it'd be with us. You can't. So I'm aware that it might be unfair. A a hundred percent of the weight of that

3 (18m 43s):
Mung fire seasons are now so consistent that there's a whole army of private contractors that chases these fires across California to it's a multimillion dollar industry. Their jobs are to make life a little easier for the people out on the fire lane at the Creek fire. Most of these contractors are set up in the main parking lot of the ski resort, which is the equivalent of downtown here. There's hot showers, the sleep trailers they're highly sought after in an industrial kitchen that packs up these Brown paper bag lunches called the 5,000 calorie meal. The mobile laundromat is in a white trailer in the back of the parking lot, hooked up to a water, tank it a 16 washers and dryers going all the time

2 (19m 23s):
Is this one dirty too? Okay, cool.

3 (19m 26s):
Jen is the person in charge of washing everyone's filthy laundry. She says a little too. He always texts her. The second they get off the mountain, just so they can jump to the front of the line. As soon as they roll back in the camp.

2 (19m 36s):
Is it a little detergent in there? There we go. How many loads of laundry are you doing? A day? About 460. Yeah. It'd be more. We're either working or sleeping. Basically. There's no real downtime

3 (19m 54s):
Who wears blue latex gloves. So she doesn't pick up poison Oak.

2 (19m 57s):
Does it smell really bad when it comes in? You know, it can a, some of these teams, they what's called spike out.

3 (20m 5s):
Spiking out means camping out in a remote spot, near the fire line.

2 (20m 8s):
And they spike out there for sometimes two weeks. And there's no laundry service, no shower. And yeah, there's talks can stand on their own. Sometimes

3 (20m 19s):
One of the guys who works for her was a lot less diplomatic.

2 (20m 22s):
So if you are, if you go to the grocery store, you buy 12 eggs, you boil them and now you leave the milk for a month. That's what some of these clothes smell like.

3 (20m 31s):
The only snafu Jens had here at camp was a sock mixed up. She accidentally put one firefighters, expensive wool socks in another guy's bags.

2 (20m 39s):
And we were, we were able to unite. This sorry. That's so funny. It just is, well, he was upset about his songs, but we got 'em back to him. So all is good. How long did the sock sock? The last, I think a couple of days. So yeah, it was a very high stress and socks, but you know what that I'm telling you, that is the comforts. They were his socks. He wanted them back.

3 (21m 12s):
The Creek is the fourth fire camp Jen's worked at this year. She says the smoke at each of them. Smell is really different. Here is like a campfire from all the smoldering pine trees, but a more populated areas where buildings and houses burn the smoke smell synthetic and greasy. The stings are lungs that reminded me of the fires I saw in wine country in 2017, more than 5,000 houses and buildings burned down the smoke smelled awful because you were breathing in people's lives. The Rose has one of the most important jobs than the camp. She works in a trailer, printing the maps and action plans for all of the teams.

3 (21m 55s):
The printer's are on 24 hours a day. And Kayla is the only person on or a 12 hour shift. So she can't leave the trailer. People are constantly running in and out. They never have time to chat, which means that this person who everyone relies on it's the loneliest person I met at camp. The most exciting drama that had happened to the week I was, there was a black bear busting into a giant grease bat from the kitchen. And the cook told me the Baird chugged about a a hundred gallons of grease. But as usual, that news hadn't reached Kaley yet.

8 (22m 24s):
Have you seen the bear? The bear?

9 (22m 28s):
No, I've never heard of this. I'm like in the dark over here. I'm not even kidding. No one does it or anything like getting to the time I get any like juicy info and I'm like, no way, like no one talks to me. I'm all alone with her here.

3 (22m 44s):
Okay. Lisa is the only time she leaves her trailer called fire dog is to go out to the port-a-potty. She's so isolated that she hasn't even figured out how to read the map. She's printing they're type of graphic. And color-coded to show where the fire is, the hottest, which symbols for all of the different teams at this point, the end of the fire perimeter kinda looks like a Sasquatch with its front Lake kicked out is 20 to raise a hoodie and has perfect makeup. She recently broke up with her long-time boyfriend, but she explained to one of my producers, Lily Sullivan, that there's a ruling.

9 (23m 17s):
So like, basically you can't be Mac and all of these boys and like doing that. That's our policy. It's an actual policy. It's an actual policy. Like we sign it. We have to keep it like professional. Yeah. You have a job to do. Yeah, exactly. We have a job to do, but like, yeah, the view is great and I'm not necessarily here, but every fire is different. You don't think there are other cute people here. Hmm I'm to think now fed fires. Usually don't have cute. People tend to be older and

3 (23m 53s):
Yeah. Fed fires, meaning fire Kim's ran by the us forest service. The camp is run by the state agency, Cal fire,

9 (24m 0s):
Like Cal fires. That's where it's at. That's where it's a Cal fire is a cute boys. Say I get a call. And she says, I'm sending you here. It's going to be a Cal fire. I'm like sweet. Every girl on our team would be like, awesome. He goes, what's the difference is the Cal fire. I don't know what it is, but there's always like younger. And even when they're not, I don't know if it's because they have like nice uniforms and they have to be really like clean light. It's nicer all around. Not only because there's cute boys, but because you get better food, it's like, if you're going to stay at this five star hotel compared to this three-star type thing.

9 (24m 42s):
So Cal fire is like the five star hotel fed fires, like 30

3 (24m 47s):
Kaylee. Doesn't actually sleep at the camp. Her company rented her a cabin about 30 minutes away. But it's the worst part of the job. It's creepy. She says the curtains on our bedroom windows are see-through.

9 (24m 59s):
Did you get some sleep last night? That was like, yeah. I was on FaceTime with my mom all night, all night. Like we set it up and then we go to bed. Wait. So you really, you put your mom on FaceTime and you guys go to bed. Like you sleep like that. Yeah. Like we're usually not in a creepy places like this just happen to be a creepy. And when I get back to the cabin, I FaceTime her and we'll talk all night. And then I'm like, okay, like let's set up our phones. And she's like, okay. So we literally fall asleep. Like if I open my eyes, I can look at my phone and see her. And like, I just wake up all throughout the night and like, look to see if she's still there.

9 (25m 39s):
Does she sleep with the light on so that you can see her? No, I sleep with the light on so she can see me because I feel like there's something there. And the main alarm goes off in the morning. She's like Kaylee, wake up.

10 (25m 55s):
Yeah.

3 (25m 56s):
Kayla is thinking about moving out of her cabin and into attend to the camp just so she doesn't have to feel so alone. It can be a weirdly easy to work on these wildfires and not think about the big picture at all. This year is a turning point. The combination of climate change, drought, that indices trees and more housing belt and high risk places. California's off six of the state's biggest fires in modern history. For the first time firefighters began using the term giga fire to describe a million acres burning. We still approach wildfires at the very manifest destiny type of attitude. Believing that with enough people in grit, there's no fire, we can't conquer, but we've spent four months and almost $200 million on the Creek fire.

3 (26m 42s):
And it's still not out. The Creek fire destroyed 850 homes and businesses. Most of them were in little mountain towns where nothing will be ever totally normal. Again, not even on the ground. After a big fire. The third is toxic from melted insolation and all the other synthetic stuff inside a home. When it burns down and with the forest gutted, you can suddenly see for miles. I talked to a bulldozer operator named Dean Moelis, who goes by Woody. He got a glimpse of This and we're still thinking about it a few weeks after he'd gotten home on his very first shift on the Creek fire, he was sent out to protect a neighborhood. The fire hadn't reached yet. It was on Crestman road. He'd never been here before.

11 (27m 23s):
All of a sudden, like there's just a fire. You don't exactly know where to go.

3 (27m 28s):
So we started pushing away anything that might cause the houses to catch fire.

11 (27m 32s):
I was basically in a bulldozer pushing cars that were on fire playground sets, decks, like wooden decks off the back of a house, brash trees taking that feel away from those houses.

3 (27m 47s):
He worked through the night, but most of the homes didn't survive

11 (27m 50s):
And we drive through there and we go, man, like that one survive. And the other one did, I don't know

3 (27m 55s):
What is a dozer operator for the States, Cal fire agency, unlike hot shot crews. He spends most of his time alone moving huge piles of dirt in his dozer, scraping fuel breaks to get ahead of the flames. He jokes at the stereotype of a bulldozer operator is someone who is kind of salty and will push back against orders. They don't agree with what he's bald with piercing blue eyes. He says he hates a big fire camps. Like the one of the Creek at become once upon a time when Woody first started a fire camp was just a few booths in a lot where you went to pick up your paycheck or radio. You know, it's been a really long fire season. How are you feeling at this point?

11 (28m 33s):
I, I don't, I'm not going to lie. I don't like it. I don't like it. I mean, it's, it's it's to me, it's just devastation. You know, you see all the comments on social media is the new norm, California. It sucks. I don't want to be running the bulldozer in December in Southern California, protecting structures. I mean, I will. It's my job. Of course I will. But I care for people a lot and I don't enjoy seeing houses burn. Nobody wants to do that. People want to go to the it's the holidays supposed to be stared at Ralphie from a Christmas story, not staring out a, sorry.

3 (29m 9s):
I first met Woody in 2018 at Another California fire. The Ferguson, it happened North of here that year, at least six firefighters died. Two of them were dozer operators and included Woody's best friend from childhood. His name is Braden Varney and he is the one who got Woody and the firefight.

11 (29m 28s):
It was dark. It was extremely steep. And a bulldozer slid off the side of the road and the parish put it, slid it tumbled down the mountain.

3 (29m 38s):
It took two days for firefighters to retrieve Brayden's. They draped an American flag over his remains and carried him out of the Canyon. Now what he has Brayden's job at their local fire station in Mariposa, he sees himself as part of the lineage of those are operators. One that's started with Brayden's dad who held the spot until he died of cancer from the job.

11 (29m 60s):
Great. And I always wanted to be partners on the bulldozers. Braden will always be on my mind. Braden will always be with me on the fire lines in the morning, drinking coffee, out of a plastic water bottle. That's been cut in half out of a homemade coffee pot.

3 (30m 20s):
How much longer you can or want to do this job for you counting down the days until retirement.

11 (30m 26s):
I'm not one of those guys yet. I still have 19 years left. You have 19 years left. Yeah. So I started late. So no, no, no, no. I have 18 years left,

8 (30m 37s):
But it's still a lot of years.

11 (30m 40s):
Well, the retirement formula changed. I used to retire at 50. Now the retiring at 57.

8 (30m 46s):
Do you think you can make it until you're 57?

11 (30m 49s):
I mean, if you look at a billboard statistic, billboard, if I don't catch cancer, I'm doing pretty good.

8 (30m 54s):
And what are the eight, 18 years?

3 (30m 55s):
Can you imagine what the fire season will be like in 18 years?

11 (30m 59s):
I don't think it'll be a laugh. It very well might be that way. I don't know. I mean that brush grows back. Yeah. I don't, I don't know. You know, it's a crazy job. Sometimes

3 (31m 21s):
I met up with a little tea, hot shots again on their very last night at camp. They were about to get to go home for two days. They stood out from the rest of the scraggly and bearded, dirty men in the parking lot. Everyone on little tea was showered. Clean-shaven it's a crew tradition in one of the buggies, the guys who are watching a Dodgers game on a little TV, It looked relaxed and happy. Even though they'd just heard the fire season might get extended. Another two months into January. That's something that would have been hard to imagine a few years ago. Again, here's dark and gray. Like a lot of the crew they're contractors who get laid off at the end of the season. What do you think about the season?

6 (32m 0s):
Okay. All the way until this is so exciting. We were all excited. It was a foot when they asked everybody on this cruise hand shot up, how do you just keep going on and on and on each other, like honestly, each other, like the synergy, the family dynamics, you guys are all positive attitudes, mandatory, mandatory. You can not have a negative attitude and get away with it here. I would say this job's is probably impossible if you don't have a good attitude, but when you're having a really bad day, what are you by yourself? It's I sound so weird. I'd like to, I totally get why it sounds weird, but that's like a big thing that we have is like no bad days on the worst day is not that bad. We always say

12 (32m 40s):
Is like,

5 (32m 41s):
It can always be worse and it can be a lot deeper colder. It can be wasted.

3 (32m 45s):
The truth is a lot of people don't last more than a few years at this job, the adrenaline high eventually wears off and they move on to other jobs, jobs that are easier on their families. One of the hardest parts of hot shot thing is just how much there on the road and more of their life is spent out at fires than at home. This season, little T has been on back-to-back assignments since June Nevada, Utah, Arizona, all up and down, California. The way their assignments work is they go out for 14 or 21 days at a time. Then only get two days off before shipping out again with all the overtime. It's good money. One of the chainsaw guys on the cruise that he'd make 70,000 after taxes.

3 (33m 26s):
So some of them don't really work during the off season or they're out fighting fires. Life goes on without them. They're reminded of this in a very literal way. They often go without cell service for days. And then the second they get back in range, there've been bombarded by everything they've missed. Joel Gonzales is one of the captains on little T

12 (33m 45s):
Some guys over 100 messages a day. Are you are thinking of something is thinking of someone who is in the truck, right? Huh? What's the situation. This is a busy year for us. And she doesn't understand that one of my guys, he's just, he just can't be on his phone all the time. You know? And then when he does get service, he finds out how many times a week she does a messenger. So it's like how many on the low end, maybe like in the, in the twenties, in the high end or maybe over a a hundred, he was like, call me, call me.

12 (34m 25s):
Where are you? What the fuck what's going on? And you'll talk to me about it. No, I want to throw them out on the bus.

5 (34m 35s):
I get a lot P how come women don't understand what we do? Why doesn't she get it

3 (34m 40s):
Again? Here's peat. The squad boss who gets tripped out by the crew. He says, they're constantly asking him for relationship advice. He keeps it pretty simple. Sit down and talk, put yourself in her shoes. But the problem is they never actually have time to use it.

5 (34m 55s):
We'll be tying them that today, this morning, but then he never makes it home to be able to do that. And now it just turns into worse and worse and worse. And unfortunately it doesn't work. It's really hard to understand. Or even sometimes believe that you're gone so long or believe that you're on a fire of writing. You have service, you know, why didn't you have service? I just talked to you a minute ago. Well, yeah, I know I was hiking and I had service for one second and now it's gone and now they don't hear from you again for three, four days. You can't explain that. Yeah.

3 (35m 30s):
They've already been a couple of breakups. The season pizza is his first marriage ended in divorce because he was gone so much. Unlike the seasonal guys, he is year round. He was on a fire when his son was born in this season, missed his daughter's birthday. Pete often scrolls through photos of them on his cell phone picture on my boy. He showed me one of his son now 11 competing in a swim meet. Is that cool? Getting to be at his meat?

5 (35m 55s):
Oh yeah. Well, I didn't make it to this one. This was a picture they sent me, but I've been to some of his meats, not to many, but yeah, it's fun. It's definitely fun watching them

3 (36m 7s):
Or are they always very forgiving of you being gone? Not being there for the big things in their lives?

5 (36m 12s):
I like to say. Yeah, because I think they don't know any different. They think it's the norm, you know? And like, Oh, dad's always gone working. I think the internet,

3 (36m 27s):
One of the guys from his crew stopped by his truck. This happened all the time while I was talking to him.

5 (36m 32s):
Okay, I'm sorry to hear. So they brought me my breakfast and they brought me my lunch. It's like the first thing on their plate. Okay. We got to take care of other people and then we'll do our thing. It becomes to where you become very catered to, well, there's not a normal in real life. It's not like that. I mean, your kids are going to talk back. Your wife is going to want different things, different. It's going to be a different type of reaction. And somebody has been doing this so long. Someone like myself, a lot of these other guys, you don't want to deal with that because it's a lot easier here. It's a lot easier.

0 (37m 11s):
<inaudible>

3 (37m 17s):
Pete's the perfect worker for these bonfire seasons. He loves his job. And when I asked him if the relentlessness ever gets to him, he told me no, the more fire, the better, the more I work, the more I don't have to think about real life.

0 (37m 33s):
<inaudible> he Johnson at the San Francisco Chronicle. She's got a book about the paradise fire. That's coming out, that you can pre-order online. The Creek fire after burning for nearly four months is right now, about 96% contained. Crews expect to get a two, a a hundred percent at the end of this month, where the start of the year, one of the hot shots from a low T Matthew Hawkins just came out with an album this month under the name of unholy smokes. The song is about constantly being on the road. The great big <inaudible> coming up to a scientist is out.

0 (38m 34s):
Snowboarding gets a call to come

12 (38m 36s):
Save the world. We move from hot chats to cold shots in a minute. I'm just a cog of Bubba radio. When our program continues support for this American life comes from capital one. Your miles go further with the capital one venture card, the travel card that lets you earn unlimited double miles for more than just air travel. Right now earn 100,000 bonus miles. You can actually use redeemable for vacation rentals, car rentals, and more. When you spend $20,000 in your first year, what's in your wallet. Limited time offer terms apply. See capital one.com for details.

12 (39m 17s):
This American, Life Myra glass today's program. Boulder V Hill stories of people trying to save the world by teaming up together and getting in there every day, doing the same things over and over like Sisyphus, pushing his rock up the slope again and again, till the job gets done, we have arrived at act two of our program. And this act, we move from people who are saving us from something very large to people's saving us from something tiny act to the other extinguishers. So the people in the us active and working on a task, some of them for years, and this has been in the news. And just the last few weeks they have actually succeeded. It looks like they got their Boulder up to the top of the Hill. David Kestenbaum spoke with four scientists. Who've been working on a coronavirus vaccine.

12 (39m 59s):
One of the ones that was just shown to be effective. David was a scientist in his early career. He worked at Fermi lab and from the coverage, he could not understand what exactly they had done in any detail. And I wanted to know that and who these people were and especially how does it feel to have helped make a thing that could save so many lives? Fix the global economy, get life back to normal again for everybody here's David, I'm going to tell you the story of some of the people who made this one tiny thing. It's a key thing. That's in at least five of the vaccines that are being tested. If you get the vaccine shot and the coming months, this thing will probably be injected into your body and it could save your life.

12 (40m 41s):
And the story of all of this, you could start at all sorts of places. I'm going to begin here in China.

13 (40m 47s):
I'm from a very small village, runs the East coast. It's Chandon province. And both my parents are farmers.

12 (40m 57s):
This is a neon Shuang Wong. His way into science is playing outside, noticing bugs and locusts scorpions. Just got them curious about stuff.

13 (41m 6s):
Yeah. Why we can sync? Why? Like we need to eat food. Yeah. Like I'm curious about all those.

12 (41m 15s):
It's funny for me. It was when I was in like 10th grade, I think I learned about Newton's equation for gravity. And I learned that that explain to both the orbits of the planets and also what happened when he dropped a ball. And I was like, I'm in, that's amazing. There's an equation that describes both of those perfectly. It was the rules behind the thing. It was the same thing. You know, when I first emailed the Antoine, he was super excited to talk said no one had really interviewed him about all that he had done now to try and get himself a scholarship to one of the top universities. And the thing he found himself gravitating toward is this field called structural biology, which I think favor is a particular kind of person.

12 (41m 57s):
You're basically trying to figure out what molecules look like. Where are all the atoms are? So you can tell how something works, or if it's a virus, how to fight it. And the thing is, people work for years trying to figure out the structure of one tiny molecule. The traditional way of doing it is that you get a bunch of those molecules and trying to get them to lay out in a neat repeating pattern. Then you hit them with these powerful x-rays, which give you just the pattern of dots. Then you have to apply these mathematical algorithms. And sometimes it's just not solvable. That really is like pushing a Boulder to the top of the Hill. It rolls down over and over. The last one was good at it though, for a thesis, he worked out the structure of part of a Corona virus, not this Corona virus.

12 (42m 38s):
This was years ago, it was a Corona virus that was making the news back then the MERS coronavirus, because it caused middle East respiratory syndrome. After that he needed a job. So I reached out to a guy who was also looking at numbers, Jason McClellan at Dartmouth. How would your friends describe you? Wow.

14 (43m 1s):
I have no idea. Fun. Good to hang out with likes having a beer or two. I was going to save the world. Then I don't think that was on anyone's radar.

12 (43m 13s):
The Antoine came over to the States to work with Jason and his team. This was 2014, six years before the pandemic. They wanted to make a vaccine for Merz. And one of the things they were trying to figure out back then that would end up being key for the vaccine we have today was how to manufacture copies of the tiny spikes. There were all over the surface of the MERS coronavirus. The spikes are why they're called the Corona viruses. The viruses have a Corona, a wreath of these little spikes, sticking out all over it. The spike is the part that sticks to yourselves. When it gets in your body, lets the virus break into your cells and start replicating. It's the scary part of the thing in a way, if they could make just the spikes without a deadly virus attached to them, maybe they could train your immune system to recognize the virus and fight it.

12 (44m 0s):
But it turned out to be damn hard to make the spikes in the lab. Basically you stick the genetic code for the spike, into some cells. What are the same?

14 (44m 9s):
We used to either Cho cells, Chinese hamster, ovary cells, or a HEK two 93 cells, which are one of the human human embryonic kidney cells. Yes.

12 (44m 21s):
I don't know why I wanted to know all this except that this is the kind of knowledge because this is going to save our ass is the problem was when they got the genetic code for the spikes into those cells, they did start spitting out spikes, but the sales weren't making a lot of them and the spikes on their own were unstable. They kept changing into the wrong shape and spent a long time trying to stabilize them, add something, tweak the genetic code. Try again again, there was a TV to it. Each try takes a while

13 (44m 53s):
To us three weeks, two or three

12 (44m 55s):
Weeks. So you had started like March 1st by the third week in March. You'd be done with that test. And most of the time it fails. Yes. And then you start again and then you don't know for another three weeks, if that new thing works.

13 (45m 9s):
Yes, yes. By the weekend to like tell it at the same time and even more 2020

12 (45m 17s):
Of them are the same time.

13 (45m 19s):
Oh yeah. We did a lot actually.

12 (45m 22s):
And every time you tried this in your mind, are you like, Oh, this time it's going to work.

13 (45m 28s):
Yeah. Sometimes I think it's going to work. It was one of this project that a yearly, I got disappointed. It's funny.

12 (45m 43s):
You're so optimistic is because most of the time it fails, right? It just keeps failing and failing.

13 (45m 48s):
Yeah. That that's kind of the live at the beginning.

12 (45m 54s):
This is kind of lab work. It's kind of like cooking, but for the fussiest restaurant ever, lots of little precise steps, you mix the stuff up in a flask, set it on this little platform, which gently swirls the stuff in it. Keep the whole thing at 37 degrees Celsius, leave it overnight. So you're constantly having to be at the lab at a certain time to do the next step is the way I've told him. You always say, it'll be five minutes, but it's hours. They tried so many different things. Scouring the scientific literature for different ideas, modifying them. The thing that finally worked was changing the genetic code for the spike.

12 (46m 34s):
So it would swap into proline, amino acids. They helped hold the spike in a spike form, kept it from changing shape. Also the cells are spitting out way more spikes, 50 times more.

14 (46m 46s):
Oh, the date it works is really exciting. Cause we, the entourage who had been doing all of this work, it it's a lot of trial and error. You're basically just failing until it works. And finally he got one and we're like, wow, that looks fantastic. We knew we had something. Then

12 (46m 58s):
When the vaccinated mice give them a shot containing these MERS coronavirus spikes, the mice has a little immune systems developed antibodies. Lots of them. It looked really promising. Like you might be able to make a really good vaccine against the MERS coronavirus. This was basically the roadmap for the vaccine. We were all going to need when the pandemic started. But the major scientific journals were not interested in publishing it.

13 (47m 23s):
We are totally try to six different journals and the way it was rejected, five times. Wow.

12 (47m 30s):
That's kind of amazing looking back now.

13 (47m 33s):
Yeah. Hopefully look back. Yeah. Yeah. Al I was a gay thing. Sad after rejection rejection, rejection. Yeah.

12 (47m 45s):
You told me he fell into a real depression. No one seemed to see the value of their work. You saw a therapist, he pointed out all he had accomplished and suggested that he might feel proud instead of sad. It didn't really help. This was 2017. The pandemic was three years away. The fact that they had trouble getting a published to me, it doesn't mean the scientific journal editors are idiots back then most people thought the next pandemic is going to be some new form of influenza, not a coronavirus, which of course is the argument for funding. Lots of basic research. Sometimes you don't know what thing is going to be important.

12 (48m 28s):
When the current pandemic began, Jason McClellan had moved his lab from Dartmouth to the university of Texas at Austin. And Sean had a gun with him. Jason told me one day in January, January 6th, he was in Utah snowboarding. And he got a call from the deputy director of the vaccine research center at the national institutes of health. Barney Graham Graham had been working with them on all of the MERS coronavirus stuff. And he was calling about some pneumonia like illness in Wu Han China, the local health authority was reporting 41 cases.

14 (48m 60s):
He let me know he was talking to the U S CDC and they, they wanted to quickly make a vaccine candidates. And it looks like it was a beta Corona virus. And he wanted to know, are, are, are we game? Are we gonna, can we, can we help out, try to rapidly determine the structure of the spike and get the vaccine made. And, and you

12 (49m 17s):
Said, you said I'm busy. I'm snowboarding. Yeah.

14 (49m 19s):
Visited. Yeah. I was actually, I was getting some boots, heat molded. So I had 10 minutes to talk to him a while there a heat molding through my feet. But I immediately, WhatsApped my grad student Daniel Rapp and told them, you know, we're going to raise, we've got to move quickly on this. Let's get prepared.

12 (49m 33s):
It's worth pointing out. They were running full steam at This in January. This is before one went into lockdown. Before that giant hospital got built, the whole thing was barely in the news and Life here. It was totally normal. So they are all going to the office to work frantically on this thing, while all around them, people are going to restaurants and church kids are in school. The thing they were going to try to help make is called an MRI and a vaccine. Instead of giving people shots filled with coronavirus spikes, you inject people with the genetic code from making the spikes. The code is wrapped in this little package. And once it gets injected into your body, it goes into your cells.

12 (50m 13s):
And then your cells start making the spikes loads of them, which on their own are harmless. But your immune system sees these foreign things and learn to fight it, which should hopefully protect you. If the real virus comes along, this is the genius of vaccines. We're not that good at making drugs against viruses, but you know, it's a really good at fighting them, our immune system. If you just show it the right piece of the virus, it often figures out how to fight it off. It's like the answer, we all have it inside us. The big thing they had to work out for the vaccine was what part of the genetic sequence for the coronavirus were they going to stick into the vaccine to make the spikes and how are they going to alter that code so that when the spike was created, it would be stable and not twist around five days after Jason got that phone call, Chinese researchers posted the genetic code from the new coronavirus online.

12 (51m 12s):
So teams around the world could look at it, Jason and the other started going through it right away. So how long did it take? So you get the sequence from how long until your, like, this is the thing we want and the vaccine

14 (51m 23s):
An hour, maybe. Really, it was probably within 10 minutes. I mean, as soon as you did a sequence alignment, you just put them in like, yeah.

12 (51m 32s):
That's because of the spike on this Corona virus, that would cause the pandemic was very, very similar to the one on the MERS coronavirus. The one that had been studying, it's often noted that these vaccines came together really quickly, but it seems like the reason they came together really quickly as, because of all of this work that went on for years.

14 (51m 50s):
Yeah. I think that's right. And it, yeah, it definitely is just,

12 (51m 56s):
It's not like it just happened in 30 days. Like it happened on 10. Yeah.

14 (51m 58s):
I've got a nice graphic online showing that of stars could be a two had emerged even 10 years ago. We'd be nowhere. This far along to having a vaccine,

12 (52m 8s):
They sent the genetic sequence off to a company that they'd been communicating with for awhile called Madonna, Madonna, like a bunch of other scientists and other companies have been working for years on how to even make an MRI and a vaccine, which is a whole other story. Anyway, a few weeks later they had one ready for test.

3 (52m 26s):
This is like the first vaccine to go to potentially be tested in humans for what was then a burgeoning pandemic.

12 (52m 36s):
This is Kim sneaky, a Corvette, a viral immunologist at the NIH who had been working with Jason and Yan Shuang and everyone else. She was there when the package arrived from Madrona. And just a note about, cause Mika, she told me that she was one of those kids who went all of the science fairs, couldn't leave a math problem, unsolved and also win. The Nobel prizes were announced. She would write the speeches. She would imagine they would deliver and read them out loud, pretending to deliver them in a very dramatic way with tears as if they were the Oscars or something. Anyway, she was the one who went to get the box of the first vaccines when they arrived.

3 (53m 13s):
It came and I like this is the first time anything came from a journal where I had to like show my ID. And I remember like the loading dock, people couldn't even like bring box up to me.

15 (53m 26s):
I had to like meet the driver downstairs. I don't even think it came on a plane. I actually think that they had it driven from Boston to Bethesda. When you

12 (53m 37s):
Got that box, like, what did you think?

15 (53m 42s):
I, I remember asking the guy, the loading dock to take a picture and he was like, I can't, can you take a bath? Like, can you take a picture of me with this box? And he was like, Oh no, I can't do that. Cause he was too busy because it's not his job. And I'm just like this, you know, nerdy scientists about to vaccinate some, you know, 200, 250 mice with the vaccine. It's like, neither of us really understood the gravity.

12 (54m 14s):
This is in February. Cause me, you remember is at some point going to see her family sitting down on her mom's bed and kind of briefing everyone. I think things might really change soon. I think the virus is about to be a big problem. I talked to all of the researchers about what it was like in this period, making and testing a vaccine, they hoped would work, but not knowing meanwhile, more and more of the world was shutting down more people getting sick and dying because Mickey had told me, she used to look at the daily numbers for the world and then had to stop it. Wasn't healthy. Barney Graham is because Miki his boss. He's the deputy director of the vaccine research center at the NIH and the guy who had called Jason while he was snowboarding.

12 (54m 57s):
He'd worked with them on all of this stuff. The most senior member of the group, it weighed on him though. He didn't always recognize it. He says, he's not always in touch with his feelings. We talked in the evening, he was at home where he'd been for months sitting in front of a bookcase, little bust of Benjamin Franklin on it. He seemed tired making the vaccine, took so many steps, so many decisions.

15 (55m 22s):
Most of the time, you're just a grind through the day and try to make the best decisions you can and keep everybody moving. And there's also a sequence, you know, things that have to happen in a certain order or you get blocked. And so just keeping things moving takes up. Most of my attention, most of the time, you know, maybe my wife could say something

12 (55m 45s):
And then his wife who was in the room while we were talking, my name is Cynthia jumped in. She's a psychiatrist. And at a couple of points had been chiming in and a very sweet way to sort of explain her husband's column exterior. She said, you're forgetting the story, which you started to tell.

15 (56m 3s):
He came out of his office and he was clearly distracted and upset. And of course, if you want to know what's going on with Brian, you have to ask him and you have to not let him off the hook until he tells you. And so I continued to just probe. And he, he said, what if I selected the wrong sequence? Because we had selected the sequence right initially. But the question was, was it the right one? Usually we spend, we spend months or even years experimenting to decide this is the best one to use. He was worried about the time that would be wasted in the development of the vaccine itself and how many people would die.

15 (56m 48s):
How many children will be left without parents? You know, how many old people would not get to see their grandchildren grow up? I mean, he was just thinking about the, all of the terrible consequences. If this had been in the wrong choice, it's just, you know, like I said, I, I tend to be a little obsessive and you know, you just can't get certain ideas or a thought patterns out of your head until you find the resolution

12 (57m 18s):
Clinical trials began on March 16th, which is pretty incredible. This is right around the time when businesses were just deciding, it would be safer to work from home shots were eventually given to tens of thousands of people. And then the weight began to see if it worked. Meanwhile, the Corona virus kept spreading in the U S or as the president called it become flu. And the China virus, here's a neon Schwan

13 (57m 45s):
From China. You know, I do have some, some, some feeling that's yeah, it's the president should not say that to two of my home country. I'm pretty angry by that. I think that it makes no sense

12 (58m 2s):
It was offensive, but it also just struck them as dumb. There were so many things to the president needed to be doing to tame the pandemic. Why was he wasting his time with this? And then maybe you remember this, there was a story on the news back then about how the FBI was looking into whether Chinese spies working through the consulate in Houston had tried to steal vaccine research. The FBI was going to be questioning people at the university of Texas. One story included neon Schwan's name as someone who worked there from China. Friends told him to get a lawyer who says he and his wife looked into whether they could leave the country if they needed to. In the end, no one came to question him, but it was unnerving at the moment when all these researchers learned that their vaccine was going to work was a few weeks ago when Pfizer announced that its vaccine was more than 90% effective.

12 (58m 58s):
Pfizer had started its phase three clinical trials on the same day as them, but Pfizer got its results. First Pfizer had used in its vaccine. The thing this team had come up with the coronavirus spike stabilize, the way they had figured out Pfizer had licensed it from them. So if the Pfizer vaccine worked, they figured there's would to Barney. Graham got a call before the results public.

15 (59m 22s):
I've been right here in my office for 10 months. So I was in my office and it was in the evening, a late evening. And apparently their data and safety monitoring board had met earlier in the day. And they were gonna put out a press release to the next day on Monday. And I got off the phone. I went over and sheepishly told my wife and my son who was visiting at the time that, you know, it looks like it's going to work. And, and that just kind of released a lot of emotion.

15 (1h 0m 4s):
I think that I've been holding back for the last 10 months. And so I retreated back into my office and just kind of let all that out for a few minutes. And they all came in and consoled me. But you know, that that moment kind of caught me by surprise, that there was so much in there to come out. The whole family was in tears. It's just a relief to know that you've gotten to that point because in vaccine development, there is a thousand choices to make a thousand decisions and a thousand ways to fail. And, and you know, most of these kinds of development projects, don't, don't turn out and to get through all the way to get an answer that said it worked and to even work better than you expected.

15 (1h 0m 55s):
That was quite a quite a month.

2 (1h 0m 57s):
Yeah. I wasn't expecting to be emotional at all. Actual sure. Wasn't expecting to be crying. Happy tears for binder that's for sure. What kind of a CRI was that there are lots of different kinds of crimes. Wow. Okay. So my family is if my siblings or my friends were listening to the news, so the first of all there, we're like, okay, you're right. You haven't cried this entire year. You cry all the time. I'm a huge crybaby. And my prides are ugly. It was a cry you might expect to have if you won the lottery.

2 (1h 1m 37s):
I don't even know if my family even today understands what just happened with me over the last year. If I were to call them about 90% efficacy results, they'd be like, okay, what does that actually has still haven't communicated with my family about the efficacy results with all of us at all. I talked to them all the time. I just talked to my dad this morning about fixing a dishwasher in my rental property. So I'm talking to them all the time, but I, I don't know. Yeah. It feels, Oh God,

15 (1h 2m 15s):
It's actually working now. So it's really going to see what a lot

13 (1h 2m 20s):
Of the people. So I think I'm proud of it and is great. Like that little thing you made.

12 (1h 2m 29s):
Yeah. Like fix the global economy. It could save like millions of lives. It could help, you know, everything get back to normal. Like that little thing.

13 (1h 2m 40s):
Yeah. That's what I hope. Yeah. What do your parents say? My parents actually, they don't know what I was doing. They just know, Oh, you are developing a vaccine. That's great. That's another thing. They don't know how much contribution I did. Yeah. I actually did. Yeah. My mum got stroke several years ago. He made shimmy and they want to know what I was, what I'm doing now. So I'm sorry about your mom. Yeah. I'm a little sad about that. But the, he has the encourage a lot of us in the past.

13 (1h 3m 22s):
Yeah. I will always remember those things. Yeah.

12 (1h 3m 26s):
It can be hard. I think when you're in deep with something complicated, to explain that to someone on the outside, particularly with science, there's this version that often makes it out into the world of a single person, having a clear, dramatic breakthrough journal sock with the polio vaccine. The Nobel prize is always given to one are a few people, but a lot of science isn't like that. I think most of it isn't when I asked Jason McClellan, the other scientist and the story about his contribution to this. He started listing names. All the people whose work went before or whose ideas they adapted gives mykea when she gives talks. Your last lines are just lists of names.

12 (1h 4m 7s):
It's never just one person pushing a rock up. David Kestenbaum, the senior editor of our show, the NIH Madrona vaccine predicted 94% of the people who got it in a clinical trial. It was just this week approved for emergency use. The government has arranged to purchase 200 million doses

16 (1h 4m 34s):
Foot in front of the, the foot in front of the one foot in front of the, the foot in front of the one foot in front of the, the foot,

12 (1h 4m 49s):
The slave at Lilly Sullivan, the people will put a show together today include Danny <inaudible> Kornfeld nor Gill, hilly Elkins, Damien grave, Seth LAN Mickey Meeks, Don Nelson, Catherine Raymondo naughty Raymond Robyn, semi and Alyssa ship. Christopher toddler, Matt Tierney, Julie Whittaker, and Diane will managing editor. Sarah Abdurrahman Abdurahman our senior editors, David Keston Baumer executive editor manual. Barry is a special thanks today to Derek Glo Daniel Patterson, Pedro Marone and Luna. Chuck Ramirez, Ryan Mendosa, Jen Rosis, JB Buntin Thea Pepsi, Miguel Diaz, government dosa, Francisco forest lamp,

0 (1h 5m 18s):
John Clearwater and Christina Crawford are a website where we set up a special page to note our show's 25th year on the air with a list of favorite shows from all over the years, I've written with blurbs explaining why each of the shows made the list. Plus award-winning show's and spin-off shows this American life.org/ 25 years. Again, this American life.org/ 25 years is American Life. This is a good bit of public radio station's by Perx the public radio exchange it's split for this American life comes from Sierra Nevada brewing company, family owned, operated and argued over since 1980 proud supporter of independent thought, whether it's online over the air, we're in a can or bottle more@sierranevada.com.

0 (1h 6m 4s):
Thanks as always for a program's co-founder Mr. <inaudible>. You know, we were arguing over the greatest daytime TV talk shows have all the time. I personally, I've always been a fan of Oprah. Tory disagreed. Her view is great. And now I'm on the glass back next week was more stories of this American life. <inaudible>

17 (1h 6m 31s):
Next week on the podcast of this American life. When Adam was a kid, Christmas was magical and his family's house, he and his siblings could hear, but never see Geco the elf. They met a mysterious Christmas-y figure named Klaus Hoffer and Kris Kringle. He broke out one bone and he said, this is one of the bones from the original Rudolph. You know, I use it to call the reindeer lights, camera Christmas next to her on the podcast or on your local public radio station.