0 (1s):
Support for this American life comes from capital one. Right now you can earn 100,000 bonus miles. You can actually use redeemable for vacation rentals, car rentals, and more. When you spend $20,000 in your first year with the capital one venture card what's in your wallet. Limited time offer terms apply. See capital one.com for details. Okay, everybody ready? Ready? Lights Camera Christmas

1 (31s):
Well, my parents say that I can't have a dog, So I want you to like another animal that like, is like fuzzy and it like walks around.

2 (47s):
You know, I'm not really a pet sorta person. I think she knew she couldn't get a dog. Basically.

0 (53s):
This is Linda, her mom, and as a reporter at WBZ public radio station, that's our home.

2 (59s):
So a Guinea pig was I think something she felt she could actually ask for. You know, this is the second place, I guess it's still fuzzy walks around.

0 (1m 9s):
And his husband is Mexican and the kids lived in Mexico when they were smaller. So they don't right to Santa to add to what they want. The Mexican tradition at Christmas is to write to the three Kings.

2 (1m 18s):
She wrote this, this letter to the three Kings and you want me to read it? Could you read it all right. It says <inaudible>. She says like, dear three Kings. I hope you're doing very well. I hope you're well, that was a nice touch. That that is a nice touch. Yeah. STI Neo <inaudible> the India. She says this year, I was thinking of asking for a Guinea pig. And then she writes, she has like an arrow. She is like, it's like an afterthought. She wrote a real one. They that then she goes on and asks for some other things, but what she really wanted and she has this whole list of things.

2 (2m 4s):
But honestly, I don't ever remember her talking about anything else except the Guinea pig.

1 (2m 11s):
<inaudible>

0 (2m 19s):
So that was a big morning. This was two years ago. Put echo is just nine to three Kings did in fact bring her a Guinea pig. And of course she was thrilled. She named it Luna.

2 (2m 28s):
The Guinea pig was like in her arms and it was running around her bed. And she was just like in love. Well, that lasted about an hour before, you know, I just noticed she was scratching her forearms a lot.

1 (2m 46s):
And she said that they were like hives. I was like allergic to my Guinea pig.

2 (2m 54s):
She was completely scared that I would give the Guinea pig away immediately. And I think her one goal was to like keep the Guinea pig. So she definitely did not complain about the high.

0 (3m 8s):
They were a big red bull watches, the size of silver dollars, but equity, however, would not be deterred.

2 (3m 13s):
Like she still held that she tried for a while. I was like, maybe if you cover yourself up. So, you know, what she started doing was she would put on this full face mask that she usually used, like on the coldest days in Chicago,

0 (3m 29s):
The black, Oh, you can see where our eyes went to show me a photo of the full getup. You can see it on our website.

2 (3m 35s):
She basically looks like a soft Battista rebel. She's got a long sleeve shirt. She's got her winter gloves on and in the winter gloves is like the little Guinea pig peaking out from her, her hands.

0 (3m 50s):
Meanwhile, paper towels stick out several inches from the gloves

2 (3m 53s):
So that there's absolutely no gap between her long sleeve shirt and the glove.

0 (3m 59s):
She looks like a young terrorist.

2 (4m 4s):
What were the Guinea pig?

0 (4m 6s):
Guinea pig. Exactly. It looks like she's taking a Guinea pig hostage or something Of course is devoted to going to steal let's it run around a room, make sure it's fed. In third grade, she had a photo of winter that she pasted onto a little hand, drawn cardboard frame with a little cardboard leg that you would prop up on her desk. At the beginning of every school day facing her.

2 (4m 37s):
It just feels a little weird because she can't pick it up or hold it or even really pet it. So its kind of like all the things, all the reasons you'd want a Guinea pig. She can't have those.

0 (4m 51s):
Oh, a parent wants to do this time of year is made a nice Christmas for their kids. Linda does not even like pets. Isn't crazy about having animals in the house. But the three Kings brought a Guinea pig.

2 (5m 2s):
The three Kings is a, they do test. They have tested me. They test parents I think.

0 (5m 9s):
And not just parents. Linda asked Perico on tape, did the three Kings? No, she was allergic when they brought her that gift. Becca told her she had never even considered the question,

2 (5m 21s):
But aren't they like supposed to be savvy like Wiseman. Like if they did know that you were going to be allergic to Luna, why are you using, they still brought her for you.

1 (5m 34s):
They would probably also know that I would loved her even if I did have allergies.

0 (5m 41s):
Okay. And the three wise men made the right call today on our radio program is Christmas holiday weekend. We have stories of parents and others trying to make the holiday incredible for the people that they love going to great and ridiculous involving live animals, a deer, a sled ancient reindeer bones, which lead only sometimes too. The most magical Christmases from WB, easy Chicago. It's this American life stay with us.

3 (6m 13s):
<inaudible>

0 (6m 24s):
Christmas in 3d. We all learn at some point that our parents make mistakes. And that can even, and I know this will be a shock. Make them when they are trying their hardest at Christmas Maya grants tells the story a quick warning for people listening with young children. This is a story about one family sent to cause traditions, which may not be the same as yours. Also. I should say today's show is a rerun from a few years back. So everybody who you're hearing in the story is just a bit older now.

4 (6m 53s):
Hi, my name is Maya. My friend, Colin Mutschler is 36. And to this day he talks about his Christmases as a kid. That's because his parents were determined to make the magic of Christmas come alive for their three kids calling Adam and Erica. But they went further than any parents. I know they wanted it to be real, really real. This wasn't an airbrushed ho-ho Christmas, but a darker grittier. One like that one year when Colin was seven and his dad sent him to the garage for some firewood and I heard it

3 (7m 24s):
Some bells and it kind of freaked me out. And so I like ran inside and I was like, Oh my God, you guys, like, I swear, I heard some bells and my owner, my dad was like, no way we really are. You know? And so I went, we went back slowly outside and, and basically we found this older man column's younger brother, Adam was there to his man had fallen in the backyard and slipped on the ice. But I was so young that it was like, who is this crazy man in our backyard? And I sort of, are you okay? Are you okay? And they brought him inside. He was wearing a very old like rundown weather jacket. He said he had like wind burn.

3 (8m 4s):
And you know, could you dim the lights? I've got snow blindness, you know, from the time of the North pole. And there's a certain amount of Claire that I can't deal with. So we dimmed the lights. Can you talk to you in a very soft spoken, you know, not a, not a whisper, but when you talk quietly enough, it, the whole room was silent and you had to kind of lean in and it was that sort of weird intimate sort of you're just like immersed in whatever he was saying. And he basically said, you know, I'm Kris Kringle, Adam was born

4 (8m 50s):
And he says, this is his earliest memory of Christmas all of the muffler kids have memories like this, probably because they talked about it all the time when they were little Colin and Adam didn't think there was just one Santa Claus living at the North pole that much of their family had their own mythology with its own logic. There wasn't just one Santa, but a network of scientists all working together as Christmas helpers, Kris Kringle was just one of them, a working man, Santa and just like a guy on a night shift from hell he was a kid.

3 (9m 19s):
Yeah. We kind of were like almost helping him. The dynamic was such that it was like he was in a rough place and we were like trying to help him. And so I think we talked with them for a bit and then, you know, put them on his way.

4 (9m 36s):
Like Chris appeared every couple of years or so in the band of woods dividing their house in Harrington park, New Jersey from a nearby golf course, never the same guy, never an exactly the same place. They'd be disheveled, bearded and horse voiced abandoned by their skiddish. And surprisingly loses will reindeer and searching for the much less whose home address. They never quite figured out the much. There's also had a family elf Geco who the kids never saw, but who apparently lived in the attic for a few weeks before Christmas, the kids would hear noises coming from upstairs, hammering walking. And when Christmas was over, they'd find wood scraps in the attic from the gifts he'd made for them. Prove the Geco had been there.

3 (10m 19s):
Both

4 (10m 19s):
Of their father and grandfather grew up with Jacko. Their grandfather especially loved to tell scary stories about how mean Geco could be. And so every Christmas the family spent hours combing over the details of Geco and their visitors comparing them to previous Christmases anticipating

3 (10m 35s):
The next,

4 (10m 42s):
Can you ask the much low kids, which Christmas visitor was the one who out did the rest there's no question. Christmas Eve 1984, Colin was eight. Adam was five. Erica was to the family, was out taking their usual walk. And on this night they went down to the golf course. It was foggy and dark here's Adam.

5 (11m 3s):
And then in the distance we see this silhouette of a shadow scampering from like tree to tree. And like it's a golf course is an open wide spaces and looking like it doesn't, they don't want us to know that they're there. And my dad says, well, let's go find out who that is. And so we start walking faster, try to catch up with a sky when we come upon him, he's in this, you know, very worn, dirty Santa Claus suit. That's kind of a greenish Brown tent. And he introduces himself as Klaus Hoffman. And he's one of many sort of the, the Santa Claus and incarnations and sort of, I don't know if he goes into a full explanation, but he definitely sort of explains that.

5 (11m 47s):
I think we mentioned that, you know, Kris Kringle and it's like, Oh yeah, I know Chris

3 (11m 52s):
<inaudible>

4 (11m 55s):
Klaus had a worn sack and began pulling out presence.

5 (11m 59s):
But the presence were very odd. There was vegetables. I had a broccoli, you know, an onion. And then he also, I think gave us some bones and that sort of comes to the most important thing is he broke out one bone in particular. And he said, this is one of the bones from the dead, you know, the original Rudolph, you know, I use it to call the reindeer

4 (12m 24s):
Again. Here's Colin and their sister.

2 (12m 26s):
Okay. And literally when he broke out bones and started blowing on them, we were like, Oh my God, you know, this is crazy. Made no noise. We couldn't hear it. But he said it was a pitch that only the reindeer could hear. And when he talked about Rudolph, it wasn't like Rudolph the red nose reindeer. It was like, he kind of was honoring the history of Rudolph as like some, you know, reindeer that, that they all honored. And the fact that he had some of these bones of Rudolph and was using them to call to the reindeer, just, it w it makes sense to us, you know, like it was like, that makes sense.

4 (13m 7s):
The details were perfectly calibrated as only people who know you as well as your parents can get just right. Here's a pen.

5 (13m 14s):
And that's when it got kind of scary. He offered all of the kids and he said, I can only invite the kids, but you guys want to come on the, on the slay. Do you wanna come to the North pole with me? And we just sat there, you know, frozen. Wow. I could say, yes,

2 (13m 43s):
The answer is no, you know, the truth is like when some old man that you just met in the dark golf course on Christmas Eve actually asks me and my brother or my sister, if we want to go with him somewhere that we have no idea that while that might be the coolest thing of all the time, it might also be like the end of life. As I know it

4 (14m 6s):
Again, Erica, who remember was to at

6 (14m 8s):
The time, and I remember screaming and not wanting to go, I was just terrified

4 (14m 15s):
Actually, that invitation to the North pole that never happened, at least not the way they remember it.

6 (14m 21s):
Wow.

4 (14m 25s):
This is a recording from that Christmas Eve in 1984, Erica, Adam and Colin had just come back from meeting Klause on the recording of the kids, seem happy and hopped up on adrenaline. They talk about clouds, but in the entire recording, never mentioned any invitation to the North pole. What you hear instead is the grandfather suggesting, how would you like it if he had asked you to do the North pole than their father Glenn jumps in,

1 (14m 53s):
But he wouldn't take it. I have a feeling that he would be willing to take the money for a tour,

4 (15m 4s):
The power of suggestion. That's how it seems like a lot of it worked the much lower parents making suggestions and adding details, and then retelling it all year after year, Christmas was a big topic of conversation and the Mutschler parents encourage their kids with the most exciting versions of what happened on those nights, to the point where the story's gained an unstoppable momentum. As the muffler kids got older things, as they do changed, each of the kids dealt with it differently, both Colin and Erica say they knew at a certain point to not talk about Geco and the others to people outside of their closest circles.

4 (15m 47s):
But Adam didn't get that at all. Adam loves to tell a good story. He couldn't not tell this one. And he believed wholeheartedly in his experiences, even as a teenager and public school in New Jersey. And it had consequences when Adam was in fifth grade, he defended his stories about class and Chris and the rest in front of his whole class. It got so confrontational with Adam telling the whole group how wrong they were, but the teacher ended up calling Adam's parents, telling them that it almost started a fight and asking them to please tell Adam to stop talking about it. Adam remembers many arguments like this.

4 (16m 28s):
Well into middle school, people would call him an idiot or a weird, and he would insist that these events were true. He was there. It was real. You guys are crazy. Not me. The next year, sixth grade Adam was at his grandparent's house at Christmas time when his great aunt blanche made some offhanded comment about which uncle played, what part, what year back when they were kids, Adam walked himself through the logic of what she was saying. And he knew right then that his parents had lied to him.

5 (17m 4s):
Not only did they lie to me, it was, you know, 13 years old. You know, I had to deal with that is like a social thing that I had done. I had defended myself and told these stories in front of lots of lots of people. And to know that my parents were sort of responsible for like allowing me to perpetuate something that like made me a liar and like a laughing stock while you were embarrassed. I was very embarrassed.

4 (17m 31s):
Adam felt betrayed and was angry about it for years. One year he came home from college and accused his parents for being the reason he couldn't trust anyone enough to have a serious girlfriend, not too different from the sorts of speeches, lots of kids make to their parents at that age, except it was about Santa. Even he admits it was pretty. So this one thing made you feel like you couldn't trust your parents, even though they were trustworthy parents.

5 (17m 55s):
Well, it was, it was the, it was the, for me, it was the intricacy. And the planning of like you spent seven years or 10 years perpetrating a lie that was so deep and complex. Like whether it was hiring people, vinted suits, you know, hunting people through, through the, through the golf course and through the woods, like, what are you insane? Like this is diabolical for me, there was a big breakdown in, you know, the way I trusted people in my life than actually, like, I think it carried on into my adult life. And even to this day, I don't a hundred percent trust anyone anymore. Do you feel like it made you cynical a little bit, a little bit

4 (18m 44s):
33 and can laugh about most of this now he sees what was great about what his parents did at Christmas, but he won't be doing anything like it. He says when he has his own kids and because of the way he reacted as a teenager, these childhood Christmases, there's still a touchy subject in his family when they talk about it, everybody's careful to keep things upbeat. I wondered if the parents had any regrets for how they handled it. So I went to meet the much slurs. Well, you know, my two boys, Laurie Mutschler live on a beautiful quiet street. It's the kind of place where deer wander through the yard's a giant reef hangs off the top of the mufflers beige clapboard house.

4 (19m 25s):
Christmas Lights twinkle inside and outside. We sit in the living room where the mantle has been turned into an altar, crowded with an assortment of spiritual icons, Buddhists, Vishnu, a ceramic bused of Jesus and two different portraits of Jerry Garcia. I was a hippie and did the whole nine yards Glenn told me on the West coast in the seventies though, he doesn't like the word hippie things has come to connote laziness and he's anything, but who knows? We started talking about the elaborate Christmas as the much larger I used to have for their kids. And I asked Laurie, how did you get roped into all of the day? Well, I had, we were talking about this. I'm going to talk to you.

4 (20m 10s):
I don't know if you caught that, but he called me a cynic. You know, I'm not a cynic. We're just so excited about how you pulled this off.

5 (20m 21s):
There is no pulling off something happened. People had an experience, and then you have this thought called somebody pulled something off.

4 (20m 39s):
I wasn't prepared for this decades. After these Christmases, Glen was refusing to admit he had anything to do with creating them,

7 (20m 49s):
You know, the conjecture and all that stuff would really undermine the magic. In fact, all the details of the, as you called the, the, the mechanics or, or, or a tuple had you pull it off, it happened. That's the magic. And that's the secret.

4 (21m 16s):
Yeah. We went back and forth about this for more than 10 minutes. Here's my producer, Robin having a go at it. It would help to know if that's just like an impossible thing for us to ask, because we have some questions about how it, how it works. And I just want to, I'm wondering if we could,

7 (21m 34s):
You can hypothesize, but that's, that's that's you because the magic is to be powerful.

4 (21m 52s):
And did they have any regrets about when their kids learned the truth? I asked Glenn and Lori about the time that Adam fought with his fifth grade class about the Mutschler Christmas stories. It seemed like it would have been a perfect moment to come clean. They said after the school called them, they did talk to Adam, but they didn't tell him he was wrong. They didn't tell them the truth. If anything, they encouraged him to believe the stories were real saying, I was there. You were there. The only parental advice was be more private about it. Stop talking about it at school, the lorry did come to worry that they should have handled it differently.

8 (22m 27s):
I think for me, I, I did really start to question whether we should be making such a big deal about it and I wanted to stop doing it. It definitely happened in my mind. I did. And, and as you can tell you, it's a very powerful force in our family. And I mean, it's a very powerful for yeah, he is. And I, and even before this interview of sorta like, you know, when you set up the ground rules about how we were going to have the interview with, they're going to ask us, and we're not going to tell, right.

4 (22m 59s):
Both Glenn and Laurie say they tried to make it right for Adam. They had no idea how betrayed he felt until later. Laurie says for a while, she didn't know what to do.

8 (23m 8s):
We talked about it a lot. We talked about the magic and the wanting to get to Adam. Can you see, can you ha can you find a place where you see where it all came from? It all came from good. It didn't come from lying. It didn't come from tricking. It. We are not bad parents because we did that.

4 (23m 27s):
Finally, Lori tells me this story. It's an important one for her. And before she starts, she says, she knows Glen doesn't want her to tell it, but that's not going to stop her one Christmas Eve. When Adam was in junior high school, Laurie went to his bedroom,

8 (23m 40s):
It was giving him him a good night kiss and hug and Merry Christmas. And he looked me straight in the eyes. And he said, you've got to tell me the truth is your son is looking at you right in the eyesight. You got to tell you the truth we did were those re did Santa really visit us. And in the back of my mind, it was Glenn's voice going. You never tell you, you never tell, but the magic, the magic. And I spewed all this magic and it's the magic and it's the spirit. And I went on and on and he would not let it down. He just said, stop it. Don't talk about that stuff. Glenn talks about that stuff.

8 (24m 21s):
You'll tell me the truth. Tell me the truth. And I, I don't even know what I exactly said, but I did let him know that it wasn't real. And, and we just cried the two of us. And it was really sad

9 (24m 41s):
Because then it's over the years he would, when he did say later, when he said, I can't believe that that was a parenting decision that you made, that you went to that extreme. He just, it has hurt him. And it was so weird because Khan and Erica had taken the same wonderful experience and held it as a wonderful experience, no matter what happened or what was real, they could hold it as a, just a magical, wonderful moment. And he somehow couldn't and it made me really sad.

4 (25m 20s):
Glen understands that something went wrong with Adam.

7 (25m 23s):
My experiences like this with, with the kids, you know, you did the best you can. And sometimes as you do the right thing, and maybe you do the wrong thing when you thought you did the right thing, you know that there is a time when the kids are young in you experience the magic through them. And it's just so special to be around young kids. And to be in that maybe you cheat a little bit and you sort of become, you know, you're, you're, you're, you're living through them.

4 (26m 5s):
Glenn had been eager from the moment we arrived at his house to take us on a tour of Christmas past. And after our interview, Glen and Laurie, head out with us for a walk. We go up the street, pass through some trees and onto the golf course, it was darker than I'd imagined. It would be barely illuminated by the ambient orange of nearby streetlights missed clung to the rolling expansive grass. Then Glen does what he's clearly been itching to do all night gives us the play-by-play from his finest hour, the nightclubs Hoffer came to visit

9 (26m 38s):
Good.

7 (26m 41s):
Whoa, Oh, is it looking

0 (26m 44s):
For the male colors? And then the other,

6 (26m 47s):
You know, with the modulars Glen hunches down and re-enact Klaus Hoffer's disappearance into the distance. He loops a lot. He's happy. Magic is Glenn strength and his blind spot. And we were all staying. They're going to like, Oh my God, did that really happen? It was like that. It was perfect. It was Maya grant.

6 (27m 29s):
She's the co-host of the culture and politics podcast. The sauce type

0 (27m 40s):
Typecast. Do you hear me as a reindeer in a Christmas pageant, the tail twitching injustice of it. It's in a minute. I'm from Chicago public radio. When our program continues support for this American life comes from Capitol one. Your miles go further with the capital one venture card, the travel card that lets you earn unlimited double miles for more than just air travel. Right now earn 100,000 bonus miles. You can actually use redeemable for vacation rentals, car rentals, and more. When you spend $20,000 in your first year, what's in your wallet. Limited time offer terms apply. See capital one.com for details.

0 (28m 22s):
This American Life Myra glass each, are you going to program? Of course, we choose a theme, bring you a different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's show for the holidays. Lights Camera Christmas stories of people trying to throw a nice Christmas for those they love. We have arrived at act two of our program act to deer in the Footlights. So Connie grew up on this ranch outside of a little town in Utah called Woodruff. And maybe you never been to Woodruff.

6 (28m 46s):
It is. Let me tell you about it. You'll have to edit this now, cause I'm going to say it like I always say, if you go through town, there's a church on the right. There's an old school on the left. You get down to the crossroads and there's a half-ass store on one side and the post office on the other side,

0 (29m 7s):
That's it the whole time, maybe 250 people she says maybe if you were, and the basic facts of her childhood are the kinds of things that lots of little girls only read about in storybooks during the summer Connie and her two sisters, they would get up, they'd have some food and they would spend the whole day. She says on their own horses, riding far and wide together. And when they were a good old, they've got a baby deer, a baby deer of their very own, who ended up a part of Christmas at their elementary school in a way that I think probably very rarely happens with deers and elementary schools and Christmases. So the story that I want you to tell is I wanted to know how a deer ended up on the stage as part of your school's Christmas pageant when you were a kid.

0 (29m 51s):
And, and I guess you should explain how you even ended up with a deer in the first place. How do you remember when you first saw it

6 (29m 57s):
All? Yeah. Yeah. We were all on our horses and there was a dove that had just had to just had a baby. It was, I'd say maybe two or three days old. Well, we chased the dough off and took the deer, took the phone.

0 (30m 11s):
Did you run off the, the mom hoping to get the baby?

6 (30m 16s):
Oh yeah, you did. Yeah. Oh yeah. And brought it home. Let me tell you what we never done it again because my dad was really pissed. Just livid. He led into us like you can't believe.

0 (30m 32s):
And what was his argument? Like? What was the problem with, with bringing in the steer

6 (30m 37s):
Nature should be left to nature. Why did we want to run that deer off that mother? When she was perfectly capable of raising this phone and taking care of it, why did we put, give us the right to do with it, to take mother nature's course away for a month? How are you?

0 (30m 54s):
How big is a fond when it's that little? Like, is it the size of a big dog? Like I'm trying to picture,

6 (30m 59s):
It would be about the size of a big dog. Maybe not a real big dog in their lives. It couldn't wait any more than I'm going to say, 25, 35 pounds. And we put it on our horses, put it across to saddle and packed it back to the house. All we was tickled, we really thought we'd done something good.

0 (31m 19s):
And so you raised it. How do you feed

6 (31m 21s):
It? You put a nipple, a lamb nipple on a pop bottle on the end of a pop bottle and they, they suck it. And so we raised the mat summer and then he, of course he lost his spots. Did you give it a name? Well, we called him Bambi. Very original. Okay. Yeah. Very original. So is he a good pet? Oh yeah. Yeah. He was a lot of fun. We never had a, a call or anything on him. Never did break him to lead. We'd just put her hands on his, what we call her, whether, you know, when their neck goes right in to their shoulders and he'd walked by it so we could walk him damn near any place we wanted to go.

6 (32m 3s):
He'd go. So that year, the year we got him, that was a year that they done the play and that they took a balloon and bloated up about the size of a golf ball and put it on his nose. And he stood there with this red thing on his nose all during the play. Huh. And if I remember right, the storage is more or less centered around Santa Claus being sad. Cause he couldn't get around.

0 (32m 33s):
Well, it sounds like Rudolph the Red-Nosed reindeer where we were, where his knows is what guides them, the light from his nose is what guides them to where need to cry. I

6 (32m 40s):
Think so. I think that's what it was when I can remember the, the, the, the hall was just, you know, crowded. Everybody knew that Deere was going to be in there. And so everybody come to watch it

0 (32m 55s):
Really. He was, he was the star attraction of the show he brought up.

6 (32m 58s):
Oh yeah. Oh yeah. They still talk about that play. I don't think they ever did talk that play. How could you say,

0 (33m 7s):
Was he on stage? Most of the show

6 (33m 10s):
All the way he was on stage for the whole show, he probably stood there for a good two hours. So we spent the whole night standing there by the hair. He'd look out in the crowd and look everybody over. You could see his ears moving back and forth, but we we'd pet Eve, you know, or scratch him on the neck.

0 (33m 32s):
What did he do when they applauded? I would think that for an animal that must've been so strange, the noise that would come from that,

6 (33m 39s):
Nothing, he stood there. He kinda that's when he'd wiggly, his tail and his ears had to go back and forth.

0 (33m 46s):
Now you're a dad who had been against bringing a wild animal of the whole time. You remember what his reaction was to the play?

6 (33m 53s):
He, I can remember him saying, you know, that it was really a nice play and he was glad that the deer had a part in it. But I remember when we, when we started the brand, we just begged dad to let us castrate him and he wouldn't do it. And you know, it was a kid. I, I just, Oh, I was upset.

0 (34m 14s):
We w wide, you want your daddy to castrate him.

6 (34m 16s):
So he'd stay home. It's just like a dog. You take a dog. And if you've got a male dog and you don't want that dog to go, I call it a tramp and all over the countryside, you cast your them. We knew that if dad had let us castrate him, we would have had him for ever. But no. So he wouldn't let us cast your 80

0 (34m 41s):
Over the next year of Bambi, grew up, develop antlers, kind of your sisters to touch the velvet on his aunt, where she says, and baby, we started acting differently. Sometimes you just wander away for days. And when hunting season rolled around and the girls begged their dad to lock up Bambi somewhere on the property. But the dads said, no, that wasn't right. And they didn't ask twice. She says, fortunately, because it was a small town. And especially after the Christmas play everybody in the Valley there knew about Bambi. The girls would take them into town sometimes and a car and people would come up to them on the street and pet them. And they took special precautions during hunting season. So everybody would recognize him.

6 (35m 18s):
We had a big grad scarf on him. And then we had a sheet bell, which is just a little smaller than a cow bell. And we'd painted this sheet, bell red. And then of course, when fall come, you know, late fall while you took off and about 10 miles away, some guy, I guess they, I never did ever talk to the guy, but they said he drove right up to him and shot him with the deer didn't even run away. No, no, no. He wouldn't run because he was a desensitized. You know, he, he wasn't afraid of people

0 (35m 54s):
When the deer was killed. What'd your dad say,

6 (35m 57s):
Just told us that that's just the way it was. And that's what we got for bringing him home. He told us, then he said, that's what happens when you mess with mother nature? Hmm. So I guess, you know, if there's a moral to the story, if you, you don't, you don't mess with something that's wild. You just leave it be a really, do you think your dad was right? I think he was right at the time. I didn't. But looking back on it now, I'm still pissed at that guy that shot him because you are sure that he knew him. Oh sure. He did. He he'd had to have, he'd had to have known. Well, in fact, I heard that he did that.

6 (36m 39s):
The guy that he knew, I hope you enjoy the evening, the son of a bitch. You better edit that out.

0 (36m 47s):
Now. I like to leave that in. Is that okay?

6 (36m 50s):
That's fine. Okay. No, that's fine.

0 (36m 55s):
I just don't understand how we could shoot him knowing that he was your pet. Like he knew you guys, right?

6 (36m 58s):
Yeah. Yeah. And you know, I think in back, I would imagine he'd probably what, 19 years old, smart ass teenagers, what he was. I can remember when you cried mother cried and dad was passed a law. He thought that was pretty, pretty low for somebody to do that to an animal, especially when he knew that it was ours.

0 (37m 28s):
Did you blame yourselves?

6 (37m 31s):
Yes I did. Yes. The end result would have probably been the same, but he probably would have lived. He'd probably get another year too, you know, before we need to get shot. You mean if you left him with his mom? Yeah. Oh yeah. Yeah.

0 (37m 50s):
It's funny. I thought we were going to have a sweet little sentimental Christmas story here, but now I feel so sad.

6 (37m 56s):
Well, yeah, it did end up setting. You know, if I was, you know, he was doing the story, I think maybe I'd kinda take a little Liberty with it and not burdened kids with what happened to him.

0 (38m 8s):
Really? What ha how would you want it to end

6 (38m 11s):
All, like, it was just a really nice play

0 (38m 15s):
And not tell anything that happens afterwards. Yeah.

6 (38m 17s):
Yeah.

0 (38m 19s):
But then if you do that version of the story than in the argument between you guys and your dad, you win because everything works out happily ever.

6 (38m 28s):
Well, I think at Christmas time, maybe we should win. All right. Well let's, let's, let's do take two. So after the play, what happened to the deer? Oh, we took him home. The play was always put on, on Christmas Eve. So we went home because it would of been like 10 o'clock and of course Santa Claus was going to come and we was all excited. And so in this version of the story, you guys live happily ever after, right? Yeah. Right. Yeah. And then the, I vividly remember the next morning after ref, we ask if we could bring him in. And the mother and dad both said yes. So we put a lot of Christmas Bose on him and we let him stay in the house until he wandered into mother's plants.

6 (39m 15s):
And then he had to go to Connie racks, talking to me from the ranch where she grew up outside Woodriff, Utah, that interview was recorded back in 2012. I am really sad to say right here that Connie Rex died last year, three replacement. Cause so we entered a show about people who go above and beyond to make Christmas special with a man who does that more than anybody. The gift giving is a person.

6 (39m 55s):
There is the operates on a global scale. I'm talking of course, about Santa Claus. He has a man who wants for nothing. That is a dozen things change for him. Jonathan Goldstein explains

10 (40m 8s):
Each life was a lonely tumbled down, a cool dark chimney falling, falling, then blackness. These were his thoughts. As he prepared snicker doodles in the kitchen, in the other room, the elves performed Christmas tunes and dosey DOE carefully. He carried the tray of sweets into the living room. His wife, Martha had been dead five years now and he was alone, alone and a house full of elves. Jesus had dignity apostles. All he had was high blood pressure in a communal toilet or the size of a cereal bowl.

10 (40m 49s):
He sat down on the couch and watch the elves dance to Felice Navidad. Jingles broke from the group of dancing elves and approached him. You're killing yourself with the doodles. Jingle said slamming down his gin, Ricky and lately he'd been on Santas case to stop overeating, to get out of the house and to get himself a girlfriend Glinda. The good which of the North lived only a few miles away and had just been left by her boyfriend, a walrus Hunter who looked somewhat like a walrus himself Glenda's into the Wilford Brimley type said jingles. So you've totally got a chance.

10 (41m 30s):
Glenda said Santa, but she so sparkly. I miss Martha Santa said quietly. He knew this was true though. Not the entire truth it was missing, of course, but there was also a fear. Look, I miss Martha to set jingles, but it's time to move on. She was the only gal for me said Santa jingles, put his tiny hand on Santas ne to be Frank jingle said, I always thought your relationship a little narcissistic, Mrs.

10 (42m 13s):
Claus was like, you're a twin. But with bosoms, did you plan your outfits together? We just had the same taste. Santa sobbed, jingle bell rock started up on the squeeze box. And Santa took that as his cue to head to bed. He never could stand rock and roll Christmas songs. He liked Christmas songs and he liked rock and roll. He just didn't like them together. Martha had felt the exact same way, you know, On their first year anniversary, Martha had presented him with a pen. The fancy kind of that came in a box.

10 (42m 56s):
Oh, for the love of Saint Nicholas, Santa had said, what good is a pen. I'll just end up losing it, save your money and buy yourself something nice. Or let me buy for you. That would make me most happy of all for a man. Famous for his giving. Santa was terrible at receiving. Martha took the pen back and apologized. And that was the end of the gifts after she had died and Santa was cleaning out her stuff in a jewelry box, filled with the old love letters he'd sent during their courtship. He found the pen. He clutched it on the edge of the bed.

10 (43m 43s):
Jingles took it upon himself to just go ahead and arrange a date for Santa's unbidden Glenda's expecting you at eight, said jingles, sidling up to him and the reindeer stable one morning. And do me a favor, trim your whiskers and put on your Spanx.

3 (44m 1s):
<inaudible>

10 (44m 10s):
Corrected. Santa's appeared at Glenda's doorstep that evening a paper bag of roasted chestnuts in his hand, come on in Mr. Claus sent Glenda with a sweep of her arm. She was dressed all in white and the house smelled of fresh gingerbread Sante observed with a smile that there were several magic wands, gold and sparkly in the umbrella rack. For most of the evening, they sat by the earth and made clumsy conversation about the loneliness of living at the North pole. Mostly unless I absolutely have to, I don't even bother going outside, said Glenda. And when the cable goes out, it is out said Santa.

10 (44m 51s):
After a beat of silence, Glenda looked at him a smile across her face. Is this a good conversation? She asked Santa laugh and assured her. It was, they played cribbage, drank eggnog and watch the snow outside of the window fall. And in the vestibule before leaving Linda placed her hand on Santa's shoulder and kissed him right beneath his eye. As she did Santa felt as though his chest were a chimney and inside a sleeping dove was stirring away.

3 (45m 25s):
You know,

10 (45m 29s):
They made a date for the following weekend. And just before he left, Glenda gave him a container of cranberry mini muffin. She baked Santa told her he could not accept such a gift. At which point she thrusted into his chest with surprising force, take it. She said on the sleigh ride home Sante realized with mixed feelings that he'd hardly thought of Martha the whole time.

3 (45m 54s):
<inaudible>

10 (46m 2s):
When he showed up the following Saturday, Glendo was all apologies. Change of plans. She said, stopping him in the vestibule. Sheila's here, flew in this afternoon from Tampa. Sheila asked Santa AKA, the wicked witch of the East. She said quickly, my old college roommate college as Santa for witches, she's always showing up like This Glenda went on every time there's trouble in Tampa. I get a knock at the door in the den. Sheila was lying on the couch in a kittenish tangle, all in black and smoking. What smelled like European cigarettes.

10 (46m 43s):
She studied Santa while playing with her hair. Hey chubs. She said, I told you to smoke outside, said Glenda with exasperations. She went into the kitchen to get some fruit cake. A Santa made his way over to the couch. Sheila didn't move. So we squeezed into the corner, her black stocking toes touching his thigh. So what are you do? Fatso. Santa began to stammer. Oh, I relaxed goal. I know who you are. You're famous. She said taking the last cookie from the serving tray. So how do you know Glenda? Oh, we're neighbors said Santa and you buy this good.

10 (47m 25s):
Which bowl she asked in a whisper, a downward turn in the arts. And all of a sudden she's moved to the North pole and rebranded herself a good, which is whoever heard of a good, which am I? Right? It's an oxymoron like baby grand or a jolly fat man. Everyone knows fat men are sad. Look at you. Totally depressed. Am I right? I mean, maybe a little Santa said, my wife recently died and what's with this Glenda interrupted Sheila, her name's Linda often when Santa didn't know what else to say, he'd break into a jolly sounding chuckle.

10 (48m 6s):
He tried to just then, but the chuckle got caught in his throat and came out, sounding sweaty and choked. Sheila stared at him. You have this weird crap in your beard. She said she reached in to pull it out. And as she did, she brought her face in close enough for Santa to smell her. Whereas Glenda smelled like baby powder and cinnamon Sheila's smelled of something. He couldn't quite put his finger on cigarettes, of course, but something else too. It's set the chimney in his chest. Ablaze, ashy, black doves, trying to flap out their flaming wings. As Sheila rummaged through his beard. The look on her face was all a little girl concentration.

10 (48m 48s):
You have a nice bone structure. She said you should try wearing black. It did have a slimming effect with drying, a tiny shriveled raisin from Sandra's beard, Sheila crinkled up her face and flicked it onto the carpet you gross. She said, Glenda walked back into the room with drinks. And when Santa reached for one, he realized his hand was shaking. He excused himself to use the bathroom where he thought he might have a few carols to calm himself down.

3 (49m 19s):
<inaudible>

10 (49m 26s):
Everything inside the bathroom was glittery and white, white glittery, soaps, shampoos, curtains, but they're hanging from the white shower curtain rod with something black strung there for all of the world to see wear a pair of silky black stockings. Sheila's black stockings for years, Santa had dealt intimately with stockings, stuffing them with Kool or presence and never thought about it twice. But just then seeing those black stockings of hers being alone with them, something came over him and suddenly he was on his toes. Biting the tips like a playful pup, like a fat old playful pup returning to the living room.

10 (50m 10s):
Sante sat back down on the couch and listened in raptured. As Sheila encouraged him to revise his policy on naughtiness, Sante nodded his head as though giving her suggestions, some thoughts In bed that night Santa's replayed each of Sheila's words and gestures. Sheila said whatever. She felt like touching and smelling everything like an animal. She was not afraid to take avail herself of the world. Drink cigarettes, hospitality without so much as asking she'd even plunged her hand into Santa's Shirley temple plucking the maraschino cherry right out and using his hat to wipe her hands for Santa's one.

10 (50m 56s):
So in love with giving, you could not help, but see before him a kind of black hole, a sexy and sublime black hole into which he could deliver forth his greatest gifts in Sheila. He saw an insatiable hunger for life with such a woman to give, to, to give himself to, it would feel as though every day was Christmas.

3 (51m 18s):
Yes.

10 (51m 27s):
The plans for the following weekend, Linda had asked if Santa could bring along a friend for Sheila. And so he showed up with jingles. Anything to help a brother out jingles had said strolling into Glenda's living room. Jingles did that thing where he jumped onto the couch while crossing his legs in midair. He landed right beside Sheila. You are just too cute. For words, exclaim, Sheila, try anyways said jingles, snipping the tip of a cigar. It was the length of his forearm. I'd prefer to keep the house. Smoke-free said Glenda, more like fun. Free said, Sheila, say, what do you call people who live around here?

10 (52m 9s):
Anyway, North Polacks we call ourselves cold poles said jingles ever put your tongue on a cold pool. Honey tends to get stuck there. Sheila slapped them on the head dork. She said laughing, Sheila and jingles had a million things to talk about all of the wild Glenda and Santa just sort of sat there, smiling awkwardly and watching the snow fall. It's an uninhabitable wasteland. Sante heard Sheila say Tampa sounds awesome. Said jingles. If only I could convince L half a day over there to move the operation. South jingles looked over at Santa and seeing his bro struggling with his day, decided to kick things into gear.

10 (52m 52s):
Come on. Y'all said the elf addressing the group gather around for a little spin. Oh, the bottle I've got just the one said Sheila Downing. The last of the red wines straight from the bottle spin. The what asked Linda, Sheila rolled her eyes. Place the bottle down on the carpet and Spen Sante watched the bottle spin with an anxiety that bordered on mania. What if the bottle dictated that he was to kiss Sheila? He would almost certainly die, but he did not have ponder such a kiss for a very long for soon. The bottle slowed to a halt pointing directly at jingles.

10 (53m 35s):
And when Sheila licked her lips and leaned her face downward jingles grabbed her head in his small hands and planted his tiny mouth on hers. Sante felt the chimney fire on his chest, snuff out. He and Glenda watched them kiss. Then after a while they watched the snowfall. Then they went back to watching them kiss. Eventually jingles led Sheila into the vestibule where he said he wanted to show her the secret to getting the tips of his shoes. So curly

3 (54m 6s):
<inaudible>

10 (54m 13s):
Left alone. And at somewhat of a loss, Linda got up and fished around in a cabinet drawer beside the couch. Sante thought you might be looking for a game of some sort, but then she said, I have something for you. She held out a glistening package, no way. Jose Santa said, I'm the gift giver around here. And it's not even Christmas yet. Santa was about to really kick up a fuss. But then as a downright, witchy look fell across Glenda's face. He trailed off. It's nothing that big. She insisted thrusting the present at his chest besides it was fun. Trying to find the perfect something for you.

10 (54m 55s):
And then to actually find it. There's no greater feeling in the world. But look who I'm telling this to hearing her words and seeing the look of excitement on her face. Santa had a puzzling thought, perhaps he'd somehow misjudge things. Perhaps he'd somehow gotten it wrong by refusing the gifts. People wish to bestow on him. He'd consistently failed to give the experience of giving he'd hog. That particular pleasure all to himself. And so he took the package. It was flat and square tearing the wrapping paper open. He saw it was a record rockin Christmas party songs, volume one.

10 (55m 38s):
He absolutely hated it. Not just because the thought of listening to it made him feel like one of those old white haired hippies who had to make everything from getting their prostate check to celebrate. And Christmas not just a good time, but a rock and good time. But it was also one of those gifts that said something about the recipient. Something that was hard to swallow, like the gift of a backscratcher that says you are alone in this world and must fend for yourself or the gift of a warm house coat that says your days of party dresses are over the gift of a perfectly awful Christmas album being handed to you by a woman who liked, you said loud and clear, you must learn to compromise for after all his years of giving sent a new better than anyone.

10 (56m 27s):
And we don't always receive what we want, nor even what we deserve. We receive what life brings us. And when it comes to life, we haven't a choice. But to open our arms, I love it said Santa with a half smile, unpeeling the plastic, they placed the album on the record player, Sante held out his arms and Glenda entered his embrace and together they danced about the room as Chuck Berry belted out run Rudolph run, and it was almost enough to drown out the sounds in the vestibule,

3 (57m 5s):
How to make it to the town. You can take the freeway down.

8 (57m 13s):
You got to think of all of the team. We used to work here at our program and is now the host of the podcast. Heavyweight retails. Amazing, true stories about people. I recommended. You can hear it on Spotify or wherever you get your podcasts

3 (57m 25s):
To avoid for Christmas. Christmas it's a rock and roll naked guitar and Rudolph where the mock a shooting star to make it in town.

8 (57m 48s):
Well, the program is produced today by Brian Reed and Jonathan and Kiva with Alex Bloomberg, Ben Kaplan, Sarah <inaudible>, Robin Semina was the ship and Nancy Updike senior producer for today's program is Julie Snyder. Music help from Damian gray from Rob Geddes, additional production help on this rerun from nor Gilstone Nelson, Beth Lake and Matt Tierney, especially thanks day to Jon Ronson, Sarah Henderson, Michelle Harris, Richard Stewart, and blue Teddy at string and can on our website, this American life.org, this American life is delivered to public radio. Station's by Perx the public radio exchange spot for this American life comes from Sierra Nevada brewing company, family owned, operated and argued over since 1980 proud supporter of independent thought, whether that's online over the air, we're in a Cantor bottle, more@sierranevada.com.

8 (58m 36s):
Thanks as always real programs. Co-founder Mr. <inaudible> one of the most experienced programmers in public broadcasting. He knows the ingredients you need for any successful radio show. And of course they are vegetables. I had a broccoli, you know, an onion

3 (58m 53s):
And one of the bones from that, you know, the original Rudolph.

8 (58m 58s):
All right, we're a class back next week with our stories of this American life,

3 (59m 10s):
You can take the freeway down <inaudible> <inaudible>

6 (59m 32s):
Next week on the podcast, this American life kick off of the year in these dark combative times, we attempt the most radical counterprogramming. We could think of the light, for instance, a five-year-old who gets to ride the school bus with the very first time. Oh man. An hour of delay next week on the podcast on a new local public radio station.