0 (1s):
A quick warning. There are a curse words that are under beeped in today's episode of the show. If you prefer a beeped version, you can find that at our website This, American Life dot org government. In this country, you may have heard this is not running so smoothly these days. That's true. In the United States Capitol this week, you were a Senator wanting to do the official count of electoral college votes. Having your work delayed by an angry mob. And it is true. If you're a dentist in New York city, I've been to get a COVID vaccine from your state. Government dentists are supposed to be in group one, a according to the centers for disease control guidelines. They're supposed to be in the very first group to get the vaccine because peering closely into people's up in mouths all day, puts them in danger of a virus that is carried by droplets on peoples breath.

0 (46s):
But when it started growing up in the vaccine in December, in New York, not only did dentists not get vaccinated,

1 (52s):
We were just kept in the dark.

0 (55s):
It was the name marks in New York, Dennis. She said she and other dentist did get emails from the state dental association.

1 (1m 1s):
I can send you some of the emails that they've they've sent to me. And they're just very confusing,

0 (1m 9s):
Confusing, like, you know,

1 (1m 12s):
Like they're confused. Like they say, we know that dentists are in group one a day. We don't yet know when or how you will be able to make an appointment

0 (1m 23s):
Productive named Mark at one level. And I don't want to overstate this. She seems like a careful measured kind of person who does not get up on a soap box at one level to her, it is not surprising that dentists would get this kind of treatment. Then she says they don't get respect.

1 (1m 38s):
There is a bias against dentists. There's definitely there's, there's a cultural kind of like fear. I'm just thinking about that. What's the movie.

0 (1m 51s):
I thought she was going to say marathon, man, but no,

1 (1m 54s):
Where they go to Las Vegas, the

0 (1m 56s):
Hangover, she meant the hangover where ed Helms plays a dentist.

1 (1m 60s):
It is a dentist. And he gets like, he gets made fun of for being a dentist, right? It's like this big joke that, that we have, Oh, you're not a doctor. You're a dentist.

0 (2m 9s):
So not even being told when they'd get the vaccine, even though the one a, she said par for the course, she Another, New York dentist did get an official email on new year's Eve. An email that had been sent out at the very business, like time of 5:07 PM. New year's Eve that did have a promising link to a vaccination locations. But when Dr. Neymar clicked on that link with her information, she found there was nothing for a dentist in New York city. It isn't just that they seem to be in the back of the line. It's the lack of information. That's what gets deducted Neymar. She finally did learn when the state would be vaccinating dentists, but it wasn't from any official source. Somebody she knew just texted her.

0 (2m 49s):
The vaccinations were supposedly going to start this week, the week they began Monday, January 4th, the fourth week of the vaccine rollout. But when you tried to actually schedule an appointment for a shot on the official website, there's seem to be no available appointments for a dentist,

1 (3m 3s):
But people have been checking. And so we've been emailing each other. So it's kind of this underground network. People who are kind of looking out for each other, Oh, I know that you haven't been vaccinated yet. I just got an appointment. Let me text you.

0 (3m 17s):
Is this like underground thing? Like it's a Russia under style on it or something. And you guys are passing each other with a little pieces of paper is saying, here's where you go for your shot.

1 (3m 26s):
Exactly. It's like the breadline is over there. Go ahead and sign up. I was actually born in the Soviet union. So you were, yeah. So you have training. You ready? I'm ready.

0 (3m 45s):
You have to, somebody on the New York state vaccine distribution task force, which is supposed to be advising the state on how to do all this. His name is Rose. Do Han Jessa runs the community health care association of New York state where she said she is spending all day, every day, trying to distribute vaccine. I have to say she made a pretty convincing case for why dentists are not being vaccinated till week four. Even though the designated one, a

2 (4m 6s):
In New York state, the state estimated that there are 2 million healthcare workers, 2 million people who fall into that one, a priority. So that's a lot of people and it's just not feasible to vaccinate everybody the first day.

0 (4m 21s):
So the state decided that the first dibs you go to people who were in a more immediate danger, like medical personnel, who cared directly for a COVID patients and nursing home staff and residents. When I ran that by a doctor named Mark, she agreed. It seems sensible that nobody had told this to her. Nobody is pretending vaccine distribution is going well in New York. Right now, the state is only managed to administer about 40% of the vaccine that has been given, which is actually better than the country has a hole, which is used about a fourth of the vaccine. That's out there. I'm still a phrase it grows, do hand use to describe her own feeling about how it's going. It was

2 (4m 56s):
Somewhat panicked.

0 (4m 60s):
Some of the many, many would just to go challenges. They faced figuring out which facilities could do it for the most shots and how to staff and schedule and track hundreds of thousands of people getting vaccine. They had to create scheduling software and figure out what to do in smaller health centers that people don't show up for appointments, which is an issue. Cause once you've opened up a vial of the vaccine and you have to use all the 10 doses inside of it in a few hours, or they go back to their health centers who have been told to vaccinate people from other kinds of facilities, like mental health providers

2 (5m 30s):
And the health centers are trying to figure out, okay, how much allocation do they have? How much of the other providers staff can they accommodate? How can they get those people either to come to the health center? Or is there a way to get some of the vaccine to those residential settings?

0 (5m 49s):
Hi it's so I don't know the details are so kind of mind numbing when you describe it.

3 (6m 1s):
Yes.

0 (6m 2s):
And you go to the process, begins on the front end with these like super geniuses using this incredibly advanced science to like invent the thing that was the hard part. And then just literally like, how do we schedule people from this facility into a time when we can get enough of them to use all the dose in the vial? You know, that's where we're getting stuck.

3 (6m 24s):
Yes. And I think that's really where the people who do that kind of thing, you don't get enough credit. Exactly. There's no Nobel prize for that. There's

0 (6m 35s):
No Nobel prize for scheduling people. One person who finally did get scheduled doctor named Mark. The only appointment that the dentist like herb to get was 40 miles away. The situation we're in now is that the CDC made a carefully thought out plan for who should get a meeting is first and second and third. And then the plan collided with reality and when and where we're all getting a vaccine is going to depend on these logistical details and how well they are managed today on our program. We see just how common this is. We have other stories of this happening scarce resources that need to go to somebody and how they end up getting allocated.

0 (7m 18s):
Whether those resources are a place to stay for the night or love and companionship being redistributed in all kinds of new ways. Since the pandemic from WBZ Chicago, it's this American life. I remember a glass stay with us, The Kwan God committee. So we start with this example of a very pure situation for people who've been given the difficult task of trying to figure out how to distribute something important. In fact, in this case life saving medicine, they're deciding basically who will live or die. And the very idealistic solution they come up with.

0 (7m 59s):
The Sullivan tells the story. It starts, as you might expect

4 (8m 3s):
With the medical breakthrough. Back in 1960, a doctor named Belding Scribner had a patient, a young man with kidney problems. It was something Dr. Scribner had no way to treat. So he had to send the guy home to his family to die. The case haunted Dr. Scribner, one night you woke up at 4:00 AM with an idea, the way he could have saved that man, a Teflon tube that could be stitched into the blood vessels of the arm and stay implanted there. It made long-term dialysis possible. For the first time, they'd pull the blood out of someone's body, clean it the way a kidney does and put it back in. People called it a medical miracle, an artificial organ that could cheat death.

4 (8m 44s):
There was a problem though, the machine they came up with is big and complicated. They built it from a Sears Roebuck freezer that they'd modified with a bunch of other parts nurses called the machine monster because it was so big and unwieldy and every patient needed to spend dozens of hours each week connected to it. And only five of these machines existed. This is still in the experimental stages. So they could only take care of a few people. And there were thousands of people dying from kidney failure every year in the country. So on one hand, a miracle on the other, Dr. Scribner had traded one harrowing problem, a medical one for an equally harrowing ethical problem.

4 (9m 25s):
How do you choose which for you to save and which thousands would die? Dr. Scribner started getting flooded with requests from people desperate to be put on the machine. The pressure was crushing him saying no wasn't sharing a person's death. You went to the administrators who are helping to oversee this whole project and asked for help. The administrators took it from there. The first thing the administrators decided is, you know what? This isn't a medical decision at all. This is a societal decision. So they decided to assemble a group of people. They chose these people. Not because these people had any medical knowledge or really any relevant experience at all. These are ordinary people handpicked to represent a cross section of moral American society.

5 (10m 11s):
I am a banker. I am a surgeon. I am a lawyer.

4 (10m 17s):
This is from a documentary from 1965.

5 (10m 20s):
I am a laborer, a leader. I'm a housewife. I am a clergyman of the names, the faces of those who serve on this committee. I'll never made known to those who apply for the places. I'm a kidney machine.

4 (10m 34s):
The committee was strict about anonymity on the documentary. Their heads are darkened. So you can't see their faces. These people had just been going about their lives. When the dialysis centers, administrators asked them to come in. One of the people in the group, a young minister told them it wasn't for him to choose who would live and die. The doctor said, we are not asking you to decide who will die. This is already determined. We're asking you to help decide who will be given the opportunity of extended life. The minister agreed to do it. They all did. A few of them said it would be too cruel to force this responsibility onto someone else. Officially. They were called the admissions and policies committee of a Seattle artificial kidney center at Swedish hospital.

4 (11m 17s):
But a lot of people called them the God committee at the time, again, this is a 1960. There is no blueprint for this. The doctors gave them no guidelines. The committee considered first come first served or drawing straws, but they'd been told to use their consciences. So they came up with a set of principles and rules. The first rules were clear, cut. The treatment was in Seattle. So they'd only look at applicants who lived in Washington, state, Washington, taxpayers were funding the research. They also decided no one over 45.

4 (11m 58s):
There could be medical complications. And those people had at least had a shot at life. And no one under 18, the treatment was physically and emotionally demanding. No one knew how it might affect the kids, but those rules only got them so far. They decided they'd base their final selection on something else, social worth. They try to save the person whose death would most hurt society. They made a list of the factors. They'd weigh marital status, number of dependents, income net worth to pay for the treatment, sex, education, occupation, emotional stability, past performance, future potential and personal references.

4 (12m 39s):
They made a policy of never meeting any of the candidates in person or even knowing their names because denying a person you'd met face to face seemed too hard. They want to let a journalist come to see how they made one of these decisions. They just had a meeting where the doctors had presented them with five applications on the committee could only pick two. They walked the journalist through how they made that choice, tried to recreate for her the conversation they just had. Here's a transcript of their discussion banker, just to get the ball rolling. Why don't we start with number one, the housewife from Walla Walla, a surgeon, this patient could not commute for the treatment from Walla Walla. So she would have to find a way to move her family to Seattle banker.

4 (13m 20s):
Exactly my point. It says here that her husband has no funds to make such a move lawyer than are you proposing. We eliminate this candidate on the grounds that she could not possibly accept treatment. If it were offered minister, how can we compare a family situation of two children, such as this woman in Walla Walla with a family of six children, such as patient number four, the aircraft worker. This is something they talk about a lot. If one candidate has one kid and the other is two, should you pick the candidate with two kids? They go round and round. Try to answer a question that has no answer labor leader for the children's sake. We've got to reckon with the surviving parents opportunity to remarry and a woman with three children has a better chance to find a new husband than a very young widow with six children surgeon.

4 (14m 7s):
How can we possibly be sure of that? How do the rest of you feel about number three? The small businessman with three children, I'm impressed that his doctor took special pains to mention that this man is active in church work. This is an indication to me of character and moral strength housewife, which would certainly help him conform to the demands of the treatment lawyer. It would also help him to endure lingering death housewife. We're still looking for the men with the highest potential of service to society. I think we must consider that the chemist and the accountant had the finest educational backgrounds of all five candidates in the end, the people they chose were mostly men white and well off people like them, which seems inevitable.

4 (14m 52s):
Given the criteria they'd come up with to select for what they called, social worth education, future potential income. The treatment costs about $15,000 a year. What would it be about a $130,000 today? And it often wasn't covered by insurance. They'd written all these rules to try to be fair, but they'd created an outcome. That was anything, but sometimes, I mean, try to guess your own biases. You come up with a very incomplete list. In a letter the minister wrote a few years later, he talks about how he'd been extra careful to guard against his own biases and not favor people who were a good church members. The later on, he worried that he might've gone too far, been unfairly hard on religious people.

4 (15m 37s):
The final thoughts were always made by consensus. They said that gave them some,

5 (15m 41s):
Some of the differences. I think that we all have the same opinion at the present time. Does everyone agree? Well, I think having arrived at that point that we are then ready to catch the ball within the hour. Call all in favor, accepting Mr. D say, aye. Aye, aye. Unopposed. Mr. D is accepted. That is the next candidate for kidney center.

4 (16m 8s):
It's hard to find many recordings of Dr. Scribner, but I found an oral history recorded decades. After all this happened, where he talks about the God committee,

6 (16m 17s):
This was a widely criticized. Afterward is a problem. Just in a word was you were faced with <inaudible> all right across it wasn't fair at all, but that was the best we could do. And

4 (16m 36s):
Dr. Scribner, he talked to these patients constantly. He couldn't have the distance that the God committee had. I've talked to a few of his patients. They all said he was a really caring doctor and there was one patient. He particularly liked a patient whose experience ended up changing everything for dialysis and for the God committee, she was a teenage girl named Caroline. I talked to her mom, Susan.

6 (16m 60s):
She had a steady personality. She was a very happy, happy, happy girl, a fairly likable one, a a well-rounded. I would like to think.

4 (17m 11s):
How did you know that Dr. Scribner liked Carolyn so much?

6 (17m 16s):
A lot of instinctive. You, you, as a mother, you'd got the feeling for, if somebody likes a kid or not.

4 (17m 23s):
Caroline is 15, a good student scout leader taught piano. When she was sick, the athletes would carry her up and down the stairs at school, kids from a youth group at church would donate blood. When Caroline's kidneys started to fail. Dr. Scribner submitted her case to the committee, even though he knew the rule, no one under 18. Did he tell you when he put Carolyn in front of the committee, did you know that it was going on? Did I know what

6 (17m 50s):
Was going on? No, no. I didn't know. Until after the fact that that's what he had done. Oh, I didn't know. There was a committee to choose who lives in dies and she was turned down. What was that like for you? I can remember the conversation. I just know I was totally silent trying, I guess, to absorb what was being said. I don't know. How would you put into words?

6 (18m 30s):
The feeling you have when you're deliberate, a death sentence like that? How you're a part of you dies, you know, you just, everything stops and it still does. When I think about it as a matter of fact,

4 (18m 55s):
Where are you ever angry that the committee didn't just, or that she didn't just

6 (18m 58s):
Not at all? No, not at all. Really. I mean, they have the rules and regulations and where you may have a hundred people and can only take to you pretty much have to, you know, I have to stick by the rules.

4 (19m 15s):
Dr. Scribner didn't see it that way.

6 (19m 17s):
Dr. Scribner was not content with that decision. If you thought he had a good case and had pleaded it well. And I really thought he, he felt that his cohorts would go along with him. He was a highly respected man. And I don't think he was used to having anybody say no to him.

4 (19m 40s):
Dr. Scribner tried to find a way he told the committee I'll treat her on my own time, nights and weekends just let me use the machines. They said, no, he couldn't accept it. He had another idea, something he'd been thinking about for a while, a smaller machine, one that someone could take into their house and run themselves without any medical staff.

6 (20m 2s):
It was nowhere near, ready to be tested. And that's where we lucked out. And he was going to do whatever it took to keep her around. Until that machine was ready.

4 (20m 15s):
He called the guy. Who'd helped him build the dialysis machine, an engineer named Albert Bab. He told them about Caroline said, do you think we could make this? She only has four months. Albert asked Dr. Scribner, one of the committee get mad that you're going around them. Dr. Scribner said, no, this has nothing to do with them. I'll get other funding. The engineer wanted to help his whole team did. They weren't technically supposed to. They were at the university and they were supposed to be working on something else, but they worked nonstop to it. They decided not to tell the university concerned that the Dean would shut it down. Someone on their team would actually do Dean watch. As they called it, keeping an eye out for the Dean and warning their team over the Intercom.

4 (20m 59s):
If they saw him in their lab, they put their designs and sketches and sliding panels. When the Dean entered the building, they'd quickly switch the panels around to hide their work on the machine, to get around the God committee. Dr. Scribner set it up independently. As a research project, Caroline would use the dialysis machine at home. Susan would run the whole thing.

6 (21m 19s):
Yeah. It was presented to us as being a strictly family matter to see if a family could run it. Correct. I believe it was phrased something like can layman non-professional people assume the role of engineer and neuros. So can lay people be trained,

4 (21m 44s):
Finished the new machine in four months and rushed it to Caroline's house. In August of 1964, Susan learned how to do what before it had only been done in a hospital, run the machine that would remove her daughter's blood from her body, wash it and feed it back in through her arm, except it was happening in the basement of her house in a special room. They'd set up for Caroline.

6 (22m 5s):
I would put her on the machine, usually between six and seven o'clock at night. And that would mean taking her off after nine or 10 hours. So it was early, early morning. And then she would just stay in bed maybe for an hour and then eat breakfast before she went back to school.

4 (22m 27s):
And you take her off around three or 4:00 AM. So you would wake up in the middle of the night. And,

6 (22m 32s):
Oh, I was awake on a night. I was her, our machines were so experimental Lilly alarms were going off all the time and then we'd have to figure out what was wrong with it.

4 (22m 45s):
It's a constant problem was that her blood would clot and clogged the little tube, the little shunt that Dr. Scribner had invented in Caroline's arm,

6 (22m 53s):
I would have to get out heparin and saline in a syringe and unblock the clot. If it was unclonable, that was very painful for her. And it hurt me, you know, to, to paint her that way. But I mean, you have to get the blood flowing again, and I had no alternative, but to do that, that was probably our biggest hurdle was just keeping her blood moving. Were you ever worried that you would get something wrong? Oh, sure, sure, sure, sure, sure. I mean, Prince, when somebody's life is in your hands, I mean, at least when I felt her life was in my hands, I was always aware of it.

6 (23m 41s):
Something could go wrong, but I better not let it happen. You have to concentrate, you know, do everything just right. Because she wasn't, she was sick and no, I think my feeling with her, I hope she feels better after this. Cause she was sick

4 (24m 4s):
And it just a few weeks Carolyn felt better.

6 (24m 7s):
Oh yeah. She did her eyes sparkled and she was talkative. And I felt like this is a beginning of a new chapter in our life. Yeah.

4 (24m 21s):
How did Dr. Scribner, do you know, how did he feel when he saw that it was working? Of course he was just jubilant. Oh, he was just grinning from ear to ear. This research project was supposed to take three years to show whether or not home dialysis could be a viable treatment, but within one year doctors agreed. This would work. This is what they would do. Susan kept dialyzing, Caroline and Caroline kept getting better. She graduated high school, started college, but dialysis is a treatment, not a cure. And it was still experimental a person's veins and arteries would often scar over and stop accepting the treatment.

4 (25m 3s):
As the doctors had said, it was a chance that extended life and Caroline's case that meant four more years,

6 (25m 16s):
She'd used up all of her usable veins and arteries. And they're having a very difficult time putting her on dialysis so that during the time she was in the hospital, it was two or three weeks. I think I would dialyze her There as best I could for you. You know, maybe it's a little as an hour before the blood quit flowing and then she just deteriorated Lilly. Now I'm so sorry.

6 (25m 56s):
She was in intensive care in the hospital and she died at night. When I had have gone home, we knew that she wasn't going to come out of it. But so I guess I was as prepared as anybody could be knowing that, knowing that we had done everything we could and that's the bottom line is we'd left a legacy for all the rest of people in

0 (26m 45s):
Not only our country, but in the world that that have that. It can live because of a foot higher than me

7 (27m 3s):
After Susan and Caroline showed that home dialysis could work. Dr. Scribner immediately put dozens of patients on home dialysis. People around the world started building these machines. It got cheaper and it was way more access to dialysis. They no longer needed a committee to play God, the God committee story. Now it seemed as a dark moment in medical history. People actually point to it as the birth of bioethics, we had to invent an entire field to deal with these questions. And we've agreed that having people vote on who makes the Cut to live her to die was a bad idea. Although the truth is we vote on life and death decisions all the time, just from a greater distance deciding things like who gets health insurance, or where the best hospitals go, which in a pandemic can make all the difference.

7 (27m 54s):
We decide these things a lot. We just don't use the words. God committee, it's easier.

0 (28m 9s):
She is one of the producers of a shell, Susan bouquet, which the mom, and that's the way that a few years back she was 91. After her daughter Carolyn died, you spent the rest of her life, teaching people how to dialyze the family members at home to winter's bone. So when it comes to who will love that, of course, it's not decided by a panel of experts somewhere. We each decide for ourselves if we want to be with. And one of our producers on the Baker has noticed the way people are deciding on that, deciding on who makes the cut, who gets first date, or it becomes part of their Life in a much bigger way in New York city where she lives. She has all that's changed lately.

7 (28m 51s):
Have you heard about finding your winter? I hadn't either. Apparently it's a thing. Single people in New York have been doing since COVID basically over the summer and fall. People started scrambling to find someone, anyone before winter in a second lockdown, back in August, completely oblivious to this phenomenon. I went on a date with a guy we met on hinge, the dating app, our first date, we'd spent six feet apart in a park for our second date. We met at an outdoor restaurant. It was going well, we just put in our order when he said, what do we do about hinge? What do you mean? I mean, do I delete my profile?

7 (29m 31s):
Why would you delete your profile? Because I met this really great girl and I'm totally into her. I paused. Is it me? Yes, of course. I was so confused. I've had to pull up a pin drive before the date to remind me of his name and he was ready to be exclusive. I am not new to dating. This doesn't happen. Straight men in New York city rarely want relationships. The whole game is to stay single at best. You get invited into their harem. One of three or four people they're sleeping with no one ever wants to eliminate the possibility of other options so quickly.

7 (30m 14s):
But then this kept happening. I go on dates and everyone wanted to have a road trip, style, marathon bonding sessions that lasted hours longer than usual. They want it to see me again. They sent me flowers. They even held hands. This was my first time back in the game for awhile. I'd taken a break from dating for nearly a year. I'd gone through a bad breakup. I left town for a while, did some therapy meditated. And now back on the scene, I felt like rip van Winkle, waking up to a world where men suddenly wanted a commitment.

7 (30m 54s):
I went on 10 dates of them. Nine wanted to keep seeing me by comparison three years ago when I was last single and went on 35 dates of them, two wanted to keep seeing me. I thought, did I get hot? All those months of work on myself had a really paid off. I told this all to my friend, Hamza, did I get hot? Did you get hot? He could not stop laughing. You idiot. It's COVID. That's when Hamza explained about people trying to find their winter, a friend of a friend named Christine, a single woman in her fifties told me in her experience, it's not subtle.

7 (31m 36s):
You know, one or two men has said to me, winter's coming. And I'm really hoping to meet someone to spend the winter. They've said that another person I talked to Kelsey 22 said she recognized what was happening early because she used to see it in Chicago. Every winter, before temperatures dropped to below zero and going outside, it was a non-starter people would rush to a couple up. She said, everyone called it cuffing season. As in handcuffs, I was out, I was kind of seeing this guy casually and we were out one night and you were sitting down at the bar kind of talking. And he was like, Oh, by the way, like we're together. Right?

7 (32m 16s):
And I was like, Oh my God, you don't know me. Like, no, you don't want to like be exclusively with you. And by the end of the night, he had gone home with someone else. So basically I, it was like, it was musical chairs. He was trying to sit down in my chair and I said, no. And he found another open chair and he was done. And it was, he had a great cuffing season. And I'm sure that relationship ended by the, by the people were going out again. Kelsey says, now it's COVID cuffing season. Like we're living in a forever winter. We're supposed to stay in dating. Multiple people is reckless. So people are settling. She told me one roommate of hers ended up with a girl who wouldn't normally be into around Thanksgiving.

7 (32m 58s):
And then another one left and is now living in a van in Colorado with an ex boyfriend. But she doesn't want to date, but I think she just didn't want to be anywhere near New York. That's like an extreme destination cough, I guess you would think it'd be nice. After all these years of rejection guys being in to me right off the bat or being texted, I miss you hours after meeting, but here's the problem. If what they're doing projecting, building up an entire fantasy based on barely knowing someone. That's my thing.

7 (33m 38s):
You can't take my thing. One time. I like the guy so much after meeting him once that I spend a week imagining all the dates we go on together, including one where we got stoned and bought crayons, spontaneously and colored in coloring books. By the time we went out again, I'd been on so many imaginary dates with him. My brain genuinely didn't know the difference between real life and what I'd pretended we'd done, but only one person can do that at a time. Otherwise you're both two into it, way too soon. And that is bringing delusion to delusion and it cancels the whole thing out. Now, I feel like I'm on the other side of the equation and watching people try to find their winter. I am watching what I used to do and how disturbing it must've been.

7 (34m 21s):
I get why 33 out of 35 men passed on me. It's off putting, I told Kelsey, I don't like this new world of musical chairs we're living in. But the real question is, do you need a chair? Like, I've just like, really? This I like don't so much rather just be dancing around and like not have a chair. It's nice to sit on a chair. Sometimes. Sometimes you've got to sit on a chair. Sometimes you have to tell a joke. But like, if it's an uncomfortable chair, like you're going to be more miserable than the chair then like not in a chair. I don't know. I had a, gosh, I don't know I had this like, Oh my God, I was getting out of the subway. I was getting out of the subway and this guy approached me and he had a mask on and he was like, excuse me, can I ask you a question?

7 (35m 7s):
And I thought, for sure, he was going to ask directions. So I said, yeah. And he was like, I, I, I just bought a farm upstate. And I'm a growing my own locally sourced produce. And I'm looking for a girl to get in a relationship that I can bring up, stay with me. Is this something that you would be interested in? Oh my gosh. And I was you should've given him my number. I'm interested. Like what is happening to the world is, is this truly at the end of days also? Cause I'm used to guys using like, you know, I work in finance or I have financial stability, like using things to like reel me in, but never crops.

7 (35m 51s):
No one has ever said I got some crops, but it's totally, he's using his with his spikies. He's like I have fresh air and land at the Capitol right now is a total it's total capital right now. I get that. It's hard to be alone, but this level of desperation is a bit much, he was a step away from saying, I have a van, two shotguns and a can of gas get in. We can make it at least two weeks before the zombies catch up to us. When really all we're in danger of is watching Netflix alone. I thought I could never be this way.

7 (36m 32s):
But as I talk to people, I admired the single-minded practicality of some of these new Yorkers. My friend Misha is a psychologist. She says, people suffer when they're isolated, people need to be touched. She went looking for a winter to preserve her mental wellbeing. She's not deceiving anyone. She's clear about what she's looking for a warm body,

9 (36m 53s):
Which doesn't sound very romantic, but I feel like that's kind of where we're at, where I'm at in this moment.

7 (36m 59s):
So you, you just want somebody for how long

9 (37m 3s):
To, to get my vaccine. Thank you.

7 (37m 6s):
And you're totally fine with it being someone that you wouldn't normally be attracted to or want to spend time with.

9 (37m 12s):
Well, I'm having to come into that. I'm having to learn my standards. Would you say that you are picky? I would say, I guess I used to be picky. You know, I had my, I guess I had my list that had to be checked off like money in the bank. Good credit. Also a gentleman has the same vision as me. Right. We're aligned. And we both want to build and community and you know, close the racial wealth gap, you know, whatever and be a blip back black power, a couple I used to have on my, on my Life dating profiles. I would just say looking for the Barack to my Michelle, like that's all, I would put someone

7 (37m 47s):
A standard was Barack Obama. Yeah.

9 (37m 50s):
But, but broke up with Michelle because Michelle is smarter than him, better than him. And he values that. And yet she pushes him to greatness. And now, you know, now I'll, you know, if you can hold a conversation, you don't, you're not overtly like an asshole and you're smart enough. Yeah.

7 (38m 19s):
Even these new lower standards were not low enough. Like she matched with the guy who had kids, which is usually a deal breaker for her and was a quote filmmaker, which is another deal breaker because she feels like filmmaker as a job, everyone in New York claims, but she agreed to a date. He told her he Baker a pie. She was expecting an entire pie. He'd just brought a piece. He'd eaten the rest, but she was willing to overlook it. I was like, you can use it.

9 (38m 46s):
Can you tell me about your film? Quote, unquote, like listen to that, whatever, you know, like I'll listen to your stories about, I don't know, panty nine, remote learning, whatever. Like I'm so willing.

7 (38m 58s):
But for the second date he insisted on coming over, she kept pushing for an outdoor restaurant when he said, no, she countered with how about coffee? Finally, he confessed. He'd spent all his money on Thanksgiving dinner and he couldn't afford it. She is still seeking a winter. Most people I've talked to weren't as pragmatic as Nisha. If anything, it's been kind of stunning seeing people who were players before COVID suddenly questioning their life choices and wanting families, or at least real love like my friend, Ian, who used to be more of a Meesha of all the people I saw searching for a winter.

7 (39m 40s):
I was most surprised by him when Ian is single, which he usually is he's prolific. He would, as he put it, order men on apps to come to his apartment, like you order food on seamless. He also dates women, but the pandemic broke him. Something about being alone all those months. During the first lockdown,

9 (39m 60s):
You can't help, but feel like, are we at the end of fight club with, you know, the world falling down around this and you better grab onto someone's hand or else you're going to go through it alone.

7 (40m 11s):
Ian would bike through the abandoned city. It was so empty. He laid in the middle of fifth Avenue one afternoon. It felt apocalyptic being alone. It changed him when he was dating before there were always unlimited options, always someone better.

9 (40m 28s):
So when you stop seeing everyone is an option, you can't help, but it starts seeing people as the one for better or worse. So dramatic the shift totally. Or we're living in a very dramatic time. You know, when things get, when it starts to get dark at 2:00 PM, you have to know joys to be like alone. No, you know, alone in the darkness. No, I'd rather have someone next to me and we'll figure it out later.

7 (40m 57s):
Being alone also change Christine. She's used to being super busy. She's a successful theater person. She has two kids, her ex and her would trade off a week to week. And she'd go from having a full house to being completely alone. She lives facing highway. And for the first time ever, there was no traffic sound.

1 (41m 16s):
And I can remember just waking up in the morning or falling asleep at night and just being in my bed and S and so wishing that there was somebody with me that I could hold and that I could just, just hug. And

0 (41m 35s):
In that silence, and I eventually bought myself a stuffed animal.

7 (41m 44s):
I did too. I bought a Teddy bear. She got a unicorn and wrapped it in a baby blanket, Christine and Ian, they're not looking for someone to winter with till they get the vaccine. They want to find their person. They want love. I think the guys I've been dating during COVID are looking for that too. I think they genuinely believe they've found it in me. Our minds can play tricks on us when we need a break from reality. Like the guy who told me he had a vision of the woman who we wanted to be with a month before meeting me and that when I walked up to him in the park for the first time he recognized me because I was literally the woman of his dreams or the guy I dated for a week who told me I was the one.

7 (42m 31s):
And that he never felt a connection is powerful. These are lovely men. Every one of them. I think I don't actually know them. Now on a Baker is one of the producers of our program coming up,

0 (42m 52s):
Working on a hotline. We helped people who are in desperate need and realizing during one of the calls that you recognize the voice of one of the callers. That's an a minute, there's a Goggle Bubba radio. When our program continues this American life from our request today's program, Making the, Cut in this difficult moment that we are all living through with the pandemic and the economy. The way it is. We have stories of people who need stuff and how it's decided who's gonna get the stuff they need. We have arrived at, at three of our program at three reluctant bureaucrats. So when producer Katie mango started to put together a series on homelessness for the podcast, 99% invisible should learn that if you're homeless in the Bay area, the first thing that everyone tells you, it is to call this hotline.

0 (43m 35s):
Two, one, one. That's how you get access to a shelter or housing shows you would hear about this hotline all the time from people who are experiencing homelessness. They're usually when people mentioned it, they were frustrated. They would say, I called the number. It didn't help. I didn't get anything. And she wondered what is going on here. So over the past few months, Katie spent some time with the two, one, one operators as it took calls. And it turns out whether you get access to certain kinds of help, depends on exactly how homeless you're considered to be. Not everybody makes the cut here's Katie

7 (44m 10s):
Rachana Robinson. I used to answer two, one, one calls from a small office about halfway between Oakland and San Jose. Now, because of COVID, she takes the calls from her dining room table. If there's time between calls, she moves around the house like a hummingbird prepping food for dinner, proofreading, her daughter's homework, doing sit-ups to one on one is a hotline for

10 (44m 32s):
People in need. Since COVID, they've been getting more calls than usual from people who are hungry or need help paying bills or rent, the operators can refer them to programs that might be able to offer assistance,

9 (44m 45s):
To talk to a homeowner of the other day for almost an hour, losing her home, talk to someone else that owns a daycare, losing it may lose her house said she's losing her mind. It's devastating. It's devastating calls. Now it's a lot more work. It's nonstop. Alameda County to one on one. How can it help you?

10 (45m 14s):
The most common reason people call both before and after the pandemic is homelessness to one on one can find colors, a shelter bed for the night. If there are beds available often there's not a good day. They may have four or five to offer this in a County where there are at least 8,000 people homeless on any given night is seeking something more permanent. Like longer-term housing. There's not much of that either, but to one-on-one can help get colors on a list or maybe it all depends on how to answer one question. Yeah.

9 (45m 49s):
And where did you sleep or stay last night here

10 (45m 52s):
Rachana is screaming a caller to see if she qualifies as literally homeless. You're literally homeless. According to the County guidelines. If last night you slept in a shelter or in some place not meant for human habitation, like a tent or a car, but the color she's been couch surfing for the past few weeks. And last night she tells her Shauna, she slept in a motel

9 (46m 16s):
Paid for it by yourself, or

10 (46m 20s):
Yes, the caller says paid for by herself, but that's not the answer Rachana needs. So she can't forward her on to the next step to get longer term housing.

9 (46m 30s):
You're welcome. Bye. Bye.

10 (46m 33s):
This technicality. What does, and doesn't qualify someone for housing. It's upsetting to the callers. It's upsetting to Rachana to, she thinks about it. Even when she's not at work

9 (46m 44s):
Like, well, we're at McDonald's and my sister in union city that motel six, it was always all the type of action over there. I see this family going in there and I see them packing all these bags, three or four kids, right? And it's like, Oh, they're homeless, but they can't get help. That's fucked up. And these are the kinds of people that will call me. And I say, you can't help you. 'cause you stay in the room last night. Sad. And I that's what I tell people, you know, I hear you. I feel you. I know you're homeless.

9 (47m 25s):
I'm not saying you're not, but Alameda County guidelines.

10 (47m 30s):
These are the stipulations. If colors meet the definition of literal homelessness, they can go into the system and be put on the list. There they get ranked by how needy they are. The people considered most in need might get housing in two or three months. But a lot of people just languish at the bottom of the list and never get anything and ended up calling two, one, one. Again, it can be a maddening cycle. And sometimes people get so exasperated that they yell at Rachana she tries to listen, not take it personally and move on to the next caller. Not get too attached, but every once in a while, a caller will stick with Rachana long after she hangs up.

10 (48m 13s):
I've heard her recall names of folks. She talked two months ago, and in January of last year, she had a call. She still thinks about,

2 (48m 22s):
Thank you for calling it out. Let me to count each one. I'm going to help you. I'm homeless in Alameda County with a two year old son. And

10 (48m 31s):
You sounded familiar to Rachana. She said she and her son were homeless and looking for help.

2 (48m 36s):
Yeah. And by email, like a shelter that provides some type of like housing afterwards, something like that. I just need it, but I'm willing to move anywhere that I can get help.

10 (48m 47s):
Rachana starts asking her usual questions. Have you called two, one, one before? What's your phone number? What's your name?

2 (48m 54s):
So my first name is spelled and my last name is

10 (48m 59s):
Now. Rachana knows why the voice sounds familiar and you can hear her take it in the person she was talking to was her cousin. The two hadn't seen each other in a long time. And her cousin didn't seem to realize she was talking to Rachana.

2 (49m 14s):
Okay. One moment.

10 (49m 18s):
She puts her cousin on hold and turns to her coworkers. Fuck. This is my cousin. She tells them when she gets back on the call, she seems not to know what to say at all. Like she's lost the script completely.

2 (49m 31s):
Okay.

10 (49m 34s):
Finally, she recovers a bit. It makes her way through the screening questions.

2 (49m 39s):
And do you have any friends or family you could stay with?

10 (49m 47s):
Rachana wants to tell her cousin it's her, but they're deep in the call and she doesn't know how to say it. So she sticks to the script. It's now nine minutes into the call and she's finished with the screening interview.

2 (49m 59s):
Okay. So you have been determined to be literally homeless by the County guidelines. If you have been determined to be literally homeless,

10 (50m 14s):
Rashonda tells her cousin that since she's literally homeless, she can pass her through to the next step. She might eventually get some help. And in the meantime, there's one space available in a shelter in Oakland that you could go to right away. Okay. So

2 (50m 28s):
Did this shelter, how long can I say the shelter for? It just depends. It just depends. You can either

10 (50m 45s):
Finally Rachana find the words.

2 (50m 48s):
This is a tiny, tiny nickname. This is why so discombobulated right now. You're messing me up right now. Oh yeah. I'm dead serious. So bad. This is not supposed to happen to you, but I guess I'll take the number two, the ones, right?

2 (51m 31s):
Hi, tiny

10 (51m 36s):
For the next few minutes. The two cousins catch up a little, both alluding in vague ways to difficult and complicated family history.

2 (51m 44s):
Yeah, man, it's been hard, man. I know. I know I was talking to you while you guys do the other day. It will get better for you. It definitely, you know, your, you see me still to be a go getter. This is the way to do it. I mean, you gotta, you know,

10 (52m 14s):
Rashaun does not the only two on one operator to know someone who became homeless, nearly all the operators who work for Alameda County to one are women of color. And homelessness is disproportionately affecting black and Brown people in the Bay area. One operator named Gwen told me she'd been homeless herself for about five years. Not that long ago at the end of the call, Rachana transfers her cousin to the place where she can get on the list for help with housing.

2 (52m 42s):
I'm going to connect to you. I got you connected. Okay. Okay. Yeah. I think a number down. I'm going to text you mine. Okay. Okay. Okay. I love you. I love you too. All right.

10 (53m 1s):
Looking back on that call, Rachana recognizes that some of her hesitancy around telling her cousin it was her had to do with her own doubts around what she was ready to offer.

9 (53m 11s):
And I didn't really want to fully, at that point, extend my hand as a place to stay because I didn't feel like I was in the, to do that. I just didn't want to be faced with that because in my heart, I wouldn't have had the heart to be like, no, you can't come here.

10 (53m 38s):
Rachana had been in this situation before, not with this cousin, but with another family member. And she knew once you invite someone in, you have to be willing to let them stay until they find another situation. After that too, on one call with Rachana. It ended up being about six months before her cousin was able to get herself back into her own place. When these operators actually do have something tangible to offer their callers, they jump at the chance. At the end of one of her work days, Rachana answers the phone for a caller who needs a shelter bed tonight. Luckily, she's just gotten word that five beds have opened up in a shelter in Oakland.

10 (54m 22s):
So she has something to offer only. There's a problem. The client is across town at a kidney dialysis center needs to be at the shelter by 6:00 PM. It's currently around 10 minutes after five.

9 (54m 36s):
So you need to get over to the EOC P by 6:00 PM. Is there anyone there? No. Calm down, calm down. It's OK. Is there anyone there that would be willing to give you a ride? No, no, no. Six, six. Yeah. Six

10 (55m 1s):
This color. His name is James. Reese was panicking. If he couldn't get in to the shelter, he imagined he would have to sleep outside that night.

3 (55m 9s):
No one here is the one here helped me.

9 (55m 19s):
Let me, let me place you on a quick hold to see what I can do about transportation. Okay? Let me

10 (55m 24s):
The 201 operators don't really have a budget to help colors with transportation, but there is this very small fund Rachana tells me for Lyft rides. Although she doesn't think this situation meets the criteria to use the funding.

9 (55m 40s):
You don't have a way to even take the bus on Mr. Reese.

3 (55m 43s):
No, I really tried to help me. And I appreciate you so much.

10 (55m 48s):
Rachana puts Mr. Reese back on hold and opens the app for lift on her computer. Her brow is furrowed. Her cursor is hovering over the request, a ride button. She says to me, this is where the humanity comes into it. Most of the day, its do you fit the criteria or not call the number? Read the script, go through the protocols. But now she is going to make her own decision.

9 (56m 15s):
Okay? Mr. Reese, and, and get you a lift, right?

10 (56m 21s):
It's rare having a problem. She can solve, even if it means bending the rules a bit. Mr. Reese has 40 minutes to get to the shelter, but it's a 30 minute ride with traffic.

9 (56m 31s):
Oh, you'll be getting picked up in three minutes by a Ricardo. He's driving a white Honda accord.

3 (56m 37s):
Okay. Okay. I'm going to get it. I'll be sitting in the lobby. Have a good night. Bye-bye

10 (56m 44s):
Rachana hangs up the phone, but on her computer screen, we can see that Ricardo, the driver has pulled up to the address Mr. Reese gave. He's just sitting there. Why is Ricardo just sitting there if Mr. Reese is in his car?

3 (57m 2s):
Hello?

9 (57m 3s):
Hi, Mr. Reese. He's There

3 (57m 6s):
Okay. Hey, I'm coming out. I'm coming out right

9 (57m 8s):
Here. Camy. We're in a hurry.

3 (57m 12s):
OK. Thank you. Ma'am

9 (57m 15s):
Mr. <inaudible>. He's now left and the ride was canceled.

3 (57m 21s):
Huh?

9 (57m 26s):
Hold on one second.

10 (57m 28s):
She puts him back on hold. I'm not sure if she is going to get him another lift or if that was his one chance it's five 30. He'd already be late, but maybe not too late. Rachana tries again.

9 (57m 41s):
Rob bell and agreeing Toyota Prius. We'll be picking you up in the six minutes.

3 (57m 49s):
Hello?

9 (57m 50s):
I'm still hearing Mr. Reese. Okay. To stay on with you till you get in that car.

3 (57m 57s):
You know,

9 (58m 4s):
Five more minutes to make it to be late.

3 (58m 13s):
Come on in the car.

9 (58m 19s):
Oh, he's there. He's waiting for you. Green Toyota Prius. I am okay. Mr. Reece, you may have to walk around and look for a green Toyota Prius. Come on. Let's look for the vehicle. Okay? Yes. So you can get in there.

10 (58m 34s):
We can see the drivers blue dot hovering on the screen, circling the block, but they don't seem to be finding each other. Okay.

9 (58m 42s):
Let me try to call the driver. Hold on one second.

10 (58m 45s):
There are four more agonizing minutes of back and forth on a conference call between Rachana Mr. Reese and rebel. The Lyft driver, Mr. Reese is describing the landmarks describing himself. Finally, they find each other you're in the car.

9 (59m 3s):
Perfect. You're going to be a few minutes late, but just calmly explained that you were told to come up.

10 (59m 10s):
He thinks her, she hangs up.

9 (59m 13s):
Okay. He's on his way. Well, yeah, good. That that's a good thing. I guess that's what

10 (59m 22s):
Keeps you going. Even if it's one person that gets a place inside tonight is like getting Mr. Reese to that shelter was one real thing before the day's end one person who Rachana knew for sure. Wouldn't sleep outside that night. That doesn't always go like that. I hadn't thought about it that much before This but bureaucracies, aren't just frustrating for the people trying to navigate them. They're frustrating for the people working inside of them too. No one really has any agency, no power to make a decision that could really help someone.

10 (1h 0m 5s):
All the operators told me the best calls are like this one. When they feel like they actually have something to offer, because like, this are rare. Mostly Rashaan has to be the voice telling people they're not going to get what they need, not right away. And maybe not ever. Katie mingle she's normally

0 (1h 0m 29s):
For the 99% invisible podcast though. She just released an entire series on homelessness in the Bay area.

10 (1h 0m 34s):
Yeah, it's called according to need. It has big fans on our staff. You can check it out.

0 (1h 0m 40s):
And the 99% invisible podcast feed wherever you get your podcasts.

11 (1h 0m 49s):
<inaudible> job.

0 (1h 1m 17s):
Well program was produced today by leaning the CTS, the people who put together today's show include BM at a wound meeting on a Baker, Susan Burton, Ben Calhoun, Dana <inaudible>. Have you been to Kornfeld? Hilary Elkins, snow Gill, Damian grape haunted Joffey Wildstar Nelson. Catherine Raymondo Nadia, Raymond Ari Safferstein Lewis Sullivan, Christopher Talla, Matt Tierney and Diane Wu, our managing editor. Sarah Abdurrahman. Our senior editors. David Kestenbaum. Our executive editor is a manual Barry, especially thanks to data. Lisa Pollack, Whitney Henry Gluster, Abby Medan, Alison D young, Ian finance, Andrew Collins, Kelsey Paget and Simon amyloid Mallory Webster at radio lab, a website, this American life.org, where you can stream our archive of over 700 episodes for absolutely free This American Life is delivered to public radio stations by PRX, the public radio exchange.

0 (1h 1m 59s):
Thanks as always to a program's co-founder Ms. <inaudible>. You know, he always noticed is a lot of things. It started growing the bottoms of my pants in a new way and he is not into it.

10 (1h 2m 8s):
I that's like an extreme calf

0 (1h 2m 11s):
Back next week with more stories. This American Life

11 (1h 2m 14s):
What does <inaudible>

9 (1h 2m 46s):
Next week on the podcast or this American life growing up black in Russia, Elena always dreamed about who she might marry. If she came to America one day he'll be tall and black who's song was that, and then visit to America, which is less filled with printers than a person might think. That's the next week on the podcast or on your local public radio station.