0 (1s):
A quick warning. There are curse words that are under beeped in today's episode of the show. If you prefer a beeped version, you can find that at our website, this American life.org, there was this article that a comedy website put out last year. Did you see this one? This is when cities first started going into lockdown. Headline said nation's dogs, effing, loving, whatever is going on right now. Apparently that wasn't every dog Warren's dog Rafi, 50 pound boxer mix was the kind of vigilant, super protective dog, even before the pandemic. And then once locked down started, the problem was like everyone was ordering stuff online. And there were a million delivery people coming there was, you know, FedEx ups.

0 (44s):
USPSS Amazon like all day long, or, you know, my neighbors would be coming and going. And the minute the, I couldn't even hear a delivery truck coming up the street and already the dog jumped on a chair that was near my window was peering out just fully at attention ears, pricked up. That's when I started to see his anxiety amped up, right? He couldn't get any rest. He couldn't calm down. And the house, he was always barking and growling and couldn't settle down. The fact that Lauren was now home all day with him, which lots of dogs would have been. The greatest thing that had ever happened to them for Rafi just made things a lot worse dogs like him.

0 (1m 27s):
They need a break, right? They need a break from the vigilance to say, I don't need to guard this person anymore. This person's out of the house. I'm chill. They need to not be on the job all the time. And I think that he was on the job all the time. And that was the problem. She took him to a behavioral veterinarian who told her that lots of dogs were going through this since the pandemic put Rafi on meds, meat flavored Prozac, it didn't fix the problem. He got worse and worse on walks. He was suspicious of people, which he had never been before. He ran across the room and burst through the door to chase and bite a FedEx delivery. Man, he lands, you did someone on the stairs of the building and set up an appointment with a trainer who specialized in aggressive dogs.

0 (2m 11s):
And finally Rafi attacked a little girl, maybe eight or nine years old, just burst through a latch gate at a community garden where dogs run off leash Oren was guarding the door to make sure nobody entered while Raffi was in there. But he rushed pastor to get to the girl breaking through the gate. The girl fell down and the dog just got on top of her. Oh my God. So terrifying. I mean the dog probably weighed almost as much as the girl did. And I mean, my, I was just devastated for the girl. The girl was upset and crying and walked away, limping orange and experienced dog person.

0 (2m 51s):
She'd worked with three different trainers when she first got Raffy to deal with his aggressiveness towards other dogs. But the fact that these attacks, since the pandemic were completely and on people, the fact that the meds weren't working, that Rafi seemed perpetually agitated and just changed. She thought about putting them down. She felt like she had no choice. And you know, I wrestled with those things. I mean, it's an excruciating decision to make. I've had dogs before that you've had, I've had to euthanize because they are older, they're sick and you're putting them out of their misery. And this is a totally different experience because you're taking a perfectly healthy being that loves you more than anything that would do anything for you or yeah.

0 (3m 36s):
And in fact, it's trying to protect you. Right, right. And, and trusts you, but a completely unprovoked attack like that. There's there's, there's nothing you can say about it. There's no, there's no way you can reason yourself out of what has to happen next. If you go after a kid like you're done, you know, she decided to put Raffi down, it's truly the most heartbreaking decision I've I've ever had to make in my life.

0 (4m 16s):
It's the anniversary of the first COVID case in the United States. When you first heard of Covid, could you have imagined that it would have touched you in this particular way that you'd ended up not having your dog? There is no world in which I would think that this would be the logical outcome of COVID that I would have to put my dog down that COVID would ever have any impact on my dog. I mean, you'd have to have all of the possible probable outcomes of a global pandemic. My dog dying is not one that I could have ever imagined. There are certain consequences of the pandemic that we all know over 400,000 Americans, dead millions of people out of work, kids everywhere, having these terrible school years with distant learning.

0 (5m 1s):
But there are all these other ways the virus has altered and shaped our lives. I was talking to this woman, Cindy in Lincoln, Nebraska, by this thing that happened a few days after her dad died of COVID. She was wearing her minivan at the garage and we realized, Oh right, my dad, isn't going to teach my son to drive.

1 (5m 18s):
I think it was, I was just parking. I think I was parking my own car and you know, putting my hands on the keys and just thinking, Oh wait, that that's another thing that we're going to miss. Now

0 (5m 31s):
Present Harrison and her dad were really close and she felt good knowing that her dad was going to teach him to drive. She says, Harrison's really smart and funny, but not everybody gets him.

1 (5m 41s):
And he and my dad really got each other and they could just like, hang out, make funny jokes, ask questions, quiz each other. As a matter of fact, I was just looking, I have a, there's a toy plastic soldier sitting on my desk. My dad had open heart surgery.

0 (5m 58s):
Harrison brought a few of these little plastic green soldiers to his hospital room.

1 (6m 2s):
And so these will protect you while you're in the hospital grandpa. And so my dad started staging like battle scenes from his hospital bed and there was Kennedy and Kleenex. And then he would text them photos to my son and say, Hey, Harrison, look here's, you know, anyway, that's the kind of things that they would do with each other

0 (6m 24s):
Anyway, driving, not a huge thing, just a small specific costs. Harrison 16th birthday, you know, the birthday and you can get a driver's license. It was just a few weeks after her dad died. So who's going to teach him now.

1 (6m 40s):
I don't know if we'll have to. I suppose we'll take turns. My husband and I, yeah, we haven't talked about it anymore though. I think we know we all kind of know it's hanging there and in some ways I'm not moving on with it. Maybe as a way of still kind of that magical thinking of, Oh, maybe we don't have to think about it another way. Even though we all know that's the reality,

0 (7m 10s):
Cindy, he said, this one thing to me that really caught me by surprise. We were talking about how, since your dad died, she connected to this whole community of people online. It was family members to COVID and I asked her like what people have said, that's been helpful. Expecting them to say, you know, it's been company talk to people who've been through what you've been through, that kind of thing. But the most important thing she's gotten from it,

1 (7m 32s):
I think some validation in the anger, you know, when you're surrounded by still some denial, people said the disease isn't that serious or that masks don't really work

0 (7m 52s):
After her father got six. And he says the car dealership where he worked told him that one of his coworkers had tested positive eight days before. So you're angry at his employers.

1 (8m 2s):
Absolutely.

0 (8m 4s):
And then you're angry at the government in general, the way it was handled.

1 (8m 8s):
The fact that we still have a functioning television in our house is probably a miracle because the number of times that I was ready to throw something, when the occupant of the white house would talk about how this is no big deal, it's going to go away because we clearly knew that that wasn't true. And after my dad got sick and then died, I was just so angry. So like, we, we knew what we needed to do. We could have done something in this country. Have you heard

0 (8m 46s):
Joe Biden talk about the empty chair?

1 (8m 50s):
Yeah, it was actually the final debate. My dad's date of death is October 20th and the last debate was October 22nd. And I had heard that line. I've heard him use it before. And I, I know, you know, that's a part of, kind of like one of the things maybe from like the stump speech sort of thing,

0 (9m 18s):
Right? It's one of those things. He said a million times, right?

1 (9m 20s):
He said it a million times and then I'm sitting on the couch and he looks at the camera and he talks about it again, after my dad died and truly felt like, Oh right, this is me. Now. This is my Thanksgiving. This is my Christmas. This is my son's 16th birthday. And somehow, even though I knew, he had said that line hundreds of times before I felt like he was looking through the television straight at me, I felt like he was looking at our whole family.

1 (10m 3s):
And I felt like he was looking at all of us, all of the other at the time, it was only like 200,000 families,

0 (10m 14s):
Just three months later. Of course the numbers doubled. It's such a simple thing to acknowledge the loss. That's all around us. And today on our program with the new president in office, one year after the first coronavirus case was founded, the United States, it was in Seattle, January 20, first of last year, there were stories about some of the things that have been lost this past year things we do not usually think about as part of that empty chair, WBZ, Chicago, it's this American life. I'm Eric Glass stay with us.

1 (10m 54s):
Okay.

0 (10m 54s):
So what do you say exactly about what was the last two weeks ago on January six when rioters stormed the Capitol building where reporter Emmanuel Felton watched that day and of all the footage he saw, one video stood out to him. You might've seen this one to have a single black officer. We'd all wait or find out his name, Eugene Goodman. And in the video, he's backing up a staircase, holding off a mob of rioters with a tiny telescoping Baton

1 (11m 18s):
<inaudible>.

0 (11m 24s):
They gave him a manual. The idea he wanted to hear what the day was like for black capital police officers who faced off with this mostly white mob. I'm out of the chin up to the Capitol with Confederate flags and other symbols of white supremacy. What did they think about what happened? Eventually got a few of these officers on the phone and they shared an insider account. That is really unlike anything we've heard from the Capitol. So far. Some of their experience of course was the same as white officers. But as you hear, some of it was very different manual. Put together this story from an interview with

2 (11m 54s):
One of those black officers, the Capitol police officers, their job is to protect the Capitol grounds and members of Congress, because they're not allowed to talk to the press. We need to disguise this officer's identity. And so we had an actor copy his voice as closely as possible. Have a quick winning. Also this story contains a racial slur. Here's a manual. The officer who I'm calling officer Jones was the person. Almost everyone told me. I just had to talk to Jones is warm and outgoing is how, at one point he told me his love language is words of affirmation. He has a lot of feelings about his job. I talked to him on Friday, just two days after the attack, he was a little stunned, still processing, everything that had happened in nursing summit,

3 (12m 36s):
Just scrapes cuts, bruises, bloody knuckles. I got me some work in, I tell you that, but I did see two dead bodies. Three, if you include my coworker, but he wasn't dead at the time. I've never been in a war. I'm not, I'm not a veteran, but I can imagine that's what the fuck were. It looks like I can imagine that,

2 (13m 4s):
But they hadn't started that way at all that morning. He was posted on the East side of the Capitol.

3 (13m 9s):
A friend of mine screen me an Instagram story saying, we're breaching the Capitol today, guys. I hope you already. And I'm like, wait, what? I was like, I laughed at it. And I was like, please, ain't coming in here. Everybody say that.

2 (13m 27s):
Of course we know by now. That's exactly what happened. Not long after one. He says people were coming from everywhere.

3 (13m 34s):
And then over the radio, they called out that they breached the first fence line or security. It was like, wait, wait a minute. This, all right, guys, this, this is going to get real.

2 (13m 47s):
He raced over to the West side of the Capitol, the side that faces the mall, where the stage was set up for an inauguration and joined the police line as the charge to beat back the crowd with their fist and batons pepper, spraying them and yelling. Get back, get back. Have you ever been in a fight like that?

3 (14m 4s):
No, not like that. No way. These people were at the range and they were determined. I played video games before zombie games, resident evil call of duty and the zombies that just come after you. And you're just out there. I, I guess that's what I could relate it to a call of duty zombies. And the further you go, the more and more zombies just come in. You're just running, running, running, and they wouldn't stop. Like you seem to get in their heads, cracked with these protons and we're spraying them and they don't care. It was insane.

2 (14m 41s):
Once the ride was broken to the Capitol around to officer Jones, crushed inside to try and help out. He wasn't following any instructions because there weren't any, he

3 (14m 54s):
Was attempting to come up with a plan attempting to come up with the plan, because that was, that was said on the radio. We need to come up with a plan. I was thinking to myself, wait, why don't we have one already?

2 (15m 9s):
Well, the officers came up with their own strategy. They linked up in teams of two and ran around the building, responding to distress calls, coming in over the radio priority calls, which meant everyone stop and listen. They were pouring.

3 (15m 23s):
So when you used to hear in priority, maybe once every two, three days, and you're hearing it once every 30 seconds priority, we have an officer down priority. We have an officer traps rounded by protests priority. We have a person having a medical emergency. We need DC buyers at this location priority. They just breached the windows priority. They're breaking the glass priority. They're headed up to the house chamber priority shots fired. And you're thinking, what in the hell is happening

2 (16m 5s):
While responding to these distress calls? Officer Jones got into some really surprising and intense conversations with the rioters. Like when he and his partner were responding to a call for help from a fellow officer and ran into a crowd of 30 or 40 rioters, headed straight for an area full of injured cops.

3 (16m 22s):
I sent the guy I was with. I told him to go ahead and respond to the other call and I'll stand here and I'll hold this hallway. And I took them all on myself. I made in the passion plead to them. I said, I said, listen, you have the nerve to be holding a blue lives matter flag. And you are out there fucking us up. Please go the fuck home. You don't care about us. How can you care about us? And you're doing this stuff. We got dozens of cops incapacitated and hurt now. And when I said that, a lot of them stopped and paused. I was like, wait, y'all got cops down. How many cops are down? And they looked like they had a moment of like, Holy fuck.

3 (17m 3s):
And then they stepped back out of it. And it was like, Hey guys, man, we're doing this for you. And then one of the guys, there was a group of like seven people walked by and two of them and the back say, Hey, listen, man, I know what you're going through. And he pulled out his badge and the other guy had his badge. I was like, wait, you gotta be kidding. And I wanted to go up and snatch it. I wanted to find out who the fuck they were. And me I'm the only black dude who sat in front of them. They looked at me, they yelled at me. They're yelling at me. I was not let them go past. Y'all want to go past me. I'm going to beat all y'all asses one by one with all y'all come on.

3 (17m 45s):
And that's when that's where one of the guys would, that was a cop said, Hey man, we're going to stand here with you. I was like, no, get the fuck out of my building. He's like, this is our building. And I was like, this is my goddamn building. I'm in charge of it. Get the fuck out. And that's when I started losing my temporary even more. I mean, I got tears streaming down my face

2 (18m 6s):
Later that day when he was even more drained, he had another confrontation. This one about politics. It happened near the rotunda. When officer Jones was trying to protect the critical hallway, there was something like 70 of them. This time, the attackers he was facing off with started justifying what they were doing. Listen. They told him we can't let them overtake our democracy. We're stopping the steel man.

3 (18m 30s):
Then I started, I actually, I got baked into a conversation. I didn't get paid. Cause I asked, I wanted to fucking engage him. And the guy was telling me, I was like, yeah, I bought it for Joe Biden. So the fuck what I was like, what do I not matter? Am I a liar? I bought it for Joe Biden. So what so the fuck. What? So tell me, I don't fucking matter. I was like, what? Oh, I gotta agree with you. I gotta agree with you all what you're going to kill me.

2 (18m 55s):
I think that's so much of Trump and his supporters, anger and inability to accept their loss in the 2020 election boils down to the idea that black votes just shouldn't count. The president has continuously attack black voters. He has claimed that there was widespread fraud in a number of cities with large black populations, cities like Atlanta, Detroit, Philadelphia. And he is demanded that thousands of votes be thrown out because of it. But this crowd was a lot more direct.

3 (19m 22s):
They were lightening into me. Oh, this nigga voted for Joe Biden. And he yelled at to his crowd, the crowd and they boom.

2 (19m 32s):
Eventually reinforcements from other police departments arrived to help clear out the building. It was a little before five when things finally calmed down enough that officers were told to take a few seconds to send an I'm okay. Text to loved ones. When Jones looked down at his phone, he had something like 70 text messages and over 30 missed calls. Not long after that, he finally got a chance to sit down, catch his breath and take it all in.

3 (19m 57s):
I didn't even think about race until we got everybody out. And I sat down with one of my buddies and tears just started streaming down my face. Now obviously all the commotion is ended. So it was just law enforcement and FBI suits. And all these suits walked around. Everybody. You know, the important people show up once all the fucking mess is done. And I'm just sitting there covered in fucking tear gas and OSI spray. And I'm looking at my buddy. He put his arm around me, another black guy. And I was like, that was like, you could also look, look, look, look. I was like, look at him, look at him. He's just sitting there, smiling, sitting there, handshaking each other. What the fuck are you smiling about?

3 (20m 37s):
What the fuck are you smiling about? And I'm like furious. And that was like, and that's when I said, I'm so sick and tired of the shit. These were, these were racist as terrorists and I'm screaming. I'm in the rotunda and it echos. So it was loud as shit. Everybody like stopped and they turned around and looked at me and I was like, what the fuck y'all looking at? Nobody should be okay with some fucking racist terrorists. I said, I got called a   15 times, man.

2 (21m 9s):
Fuck. Yeah. I'm trying to imagine as a black man, like what, it was like you having the inward hurled at you, seeing that kind of ugly racist.

3 (21m 19s):
It broke my heart. Like I said, that's why I had my breakdown in the rotunda and I just sat there and I cried. I cried. I cried for about 15 minutes. I just let it out. I was done. I was mentally exhausted. I was physically exhausted and I didn't have anything left to give. And it just hurts so much. And I looked at my buddy and I remember I said, is this fucking America? Yo, what are we doing? Like what is happening?

2 (21m 49s):
I've been thinking a lot about what January six says about America. When I think about that day, our member, the photos I saw early that morning of black poll workers in Georgia, briefly counting the runoff ballots in the middle of a pandemic and under threat from Trump's supporters. How that afternoon I saw a video of a black officer, Eugene Goodman protecting Mike Pence and lawmakers from the insurrectionists. And later that night watching a video of black Capitol staff cleaning up the mess, the riotous laugh through all the attacks everywhere I looked, it was black people doing the job of making our democracy work. It was a job officer Jones continued to do the day after the attack, he went straight back to work with continuing threats.

2 (22m 34s):
The Capitol police have had to work around the clock. 16 hour days have become the norm. He's had just one day off in the two weeks between January 6th and inauguration. I talked to him a few days before. So how you're back at work now, her, her, what does it feel like to be at the Capitol today?

3 (22m 52s):
You look around and you see all these soldiers here. You look around, you see unscalable, razor wire fences around here. And as an officer who got his ass whooped a couple of days ago, if you're good, come back, try it again. We got held down. Try it again. So as an officer, I'm like, yeah, but I just a person, American citizen, black man, you feel like, what the hell is this? Normal now is this the note that this is what we got to do to prevent this from happening, man,

0 (23m 47s):
There's a long list. Somewhere things we thought could never happen. And so many of them have been lost, struck off the list disappeared in the last year. This was just the latest one. In my conversations with the officers, it felt like we were saying, sure, there are a lot of racist in America, but this that they could storm the Capitol that they could shut down our car for men that left us an arm that was near manual Felton. He writes about racing inequality for Buzzfeed news. He checked in with officer Jones and inauguration day. This week, officer Jones said he was glad they were going to inaugurate the president that the writers did not want to see integrated in public in their faces.

0 (24m 34s):
He said, but when the actual day came, he did not get to enjoy it himself. He didn't see any of the speeches or the performances he was working on the East side of the building far from the action. The actor whose voice you heard saying officer Jones, his words is Bangkok. And I bet you could see me in the upcoming FX Hulu series, the old man with Jeff Bridges and John with gal coming up, we share something with you that you need that is missing from your life. That you may not even have noticed how much you need this. That's in a minute from Chicago public radio. When our program continues this American life, Myra glass today's program, the empty chair, we have stories about things that have been lost this past year.

0 (25m 21s):
Things that seemed worth noting as we head into whatever new chapter is going to unfold. This year, we've arrived at act two of our program act two 50 shades of shade. So here is something else that we have all lost since the pandemic. So they, it almost feels too small dimension, but, but really I think is pretty significant. Rachel cannoli noticed this she's a writer in London, our producer, Lily Sullivan, talked to her

4 (25m 45s):
To understand why this thing Rachel's missing matters so much. Let's start with a little story about two brothers. Okay? Okay. So we just call them Frank and Steven they're slightly different edges. Frank is the older brother and he's kind of shorter, less left handsome. Steven's kind of brother, but Frank is kind of more gregarious and charming. And this kind of really funny guy. So they both are kind of attractive in different ways. This happened at the beginning of the pandemic, the brothers had moved back to their hometown for lockdown and it kind of surreal second adolescence back with their parents, social distance, hanging with people. They'd kind of known in high school. Frank and Steven, not their real names are in their early twenties.

4 (26m 30s):
They'd spent the day drinking outside with someone they'd grown up with and she used cold bath and Frank, the, the left handsome, but funny one, he's always had a big bear. And he's kind of like, you know what? I've been meaning to do this for years.

5 (26m 44s):
This night is going to be our night. And he said this to Steven, like, you know, I think this, this is going to be the night. It finally happens when they were drinking all day. And Frank just got drunker and drunker and drunker and Pete cause people do do that. Like when they want to do something, but didn't want to kind of like, be there, be responsible for doing it. They will kind of. So he got it by the end of the day, like totally plasters slurring his words, like just telling the same story over and over again. Stephen was like, I'm just going to do the nice thing here and just bring, bringing you back Frank, like, cause she drunk. Doesn't look good.

4 (27m 21s):
Steven tells Beth I'm going to be a good brother here. He takes Frank home and puts him to bed,

5 (27m 26s):
Which is all very charitable. But once he had done this, he then went back to Beth's house cycle back as well, not even walk and guess what happens next

4 (27m 39s):
Ex sex is what happened next between Beth and Steven, the younger brother, the more handsome, but less funny brother who had not liked Beth since childhood. This is what we used to call gossip. That's the way conversation used to be before the pandemic took it away from us. I found Rachel because she wrote an essay about how she suddenly noticed its absence. She put her finger on this thing that I've been feeling too. She wrote this was a year when everything happened and nothing happened. And I quickly got bored of talking about the news. Almost always bad or asking people what they'd been up to. Almost always nothing, just like,

5 (28m 18s):
Like zoom calls with the same people to have essentially the same conversation, which was like, what have you done to say, I was locked out three months and then it would be like, so what's going on? And everyone will be like nothing actually really not really much on,

4 (28m 33s):
Oh, that's so true though. That moment. And people are like, so what's new. And you're like, nothing. The thing about this story, Rachel doesn't even know these people. Yeah. So not at all. No, she thinks she may be met one of the brothers at a party once she just heard this story from a friend of hers. He's the one who knows Frank and Steven, the best kind of gossip. Of course it's about people, you know, but she didn't have that. And she was so hungry for it. It turns out in a pinch or in a pandemic.

4 (29m 13s):
Strangers will do. You can't sleep with the person

5 (29m 16s):
There likes you. Just like, do you think it's so bad? I'm not sure. I, I kind of think it's one of those drunk things where it's like, if it's someone someone's like from like a teenager, I'm like, do they even like them? Or is it just like, is it just someone who's here? And it's a weird thing here. Yeah.

4 (29m 36s):
Jill and I are both living without kids or extended family. We haven't lost our jobs. Neither we nor our loved ones got very sick. I recognize how dumb our concerns are compared to what so many people's lives have been. But we both noticed a thing that over the course of the pandemic had kind of drifted away while we weren't paying attention. The ability to socialize like a normal person talking, it turns out is like a muscle. And when you don't use it much for months on end, it can atrophy. Rachel remembers the first time she went out to meet up with more than one person,

5 (30m 10s):
I was literally like the next day I felt like I'd run a marathon or like I've done this like extraordinary feat of like insurance. And it was just like having a conversation with more than one person for a couple of hours. It was like a job. Like you have to really focus on what they're saying. You have to focus on your, your body language.

4 (30m 30s):
I felt this also friends will get in touch and want to go for a walk. I'm like, Hmm, that sounds awkward. I'll see you after the pandemic. It's not that I don't want to see people. There's just no fuel for conversation suffering before the pandemic is too old to talk about now. So what are you supposed to talk about when there are no situations? So Rachel started doing this thing that I thought was pretty brilliant. She just started asking people, got any gossip about anyone and it kind of worked. Conversation was easier. When you were talking about the tailor who lied about her husband's death to avoid an uncomfortable conversation about a missing shirt or the guy who had hooked up with his roommate and it didn't work out.

4 (31m 13s):
And should he move? Now I could talk your ear off about a friend of mine whose fiance broke up with her during couples therapy, remote couples therapy, over zoom. How my friend watched her fiance dumper from their laptop screen. Even though they were sitting side by side on their bed, this kind of talk. It wasn't exactly normal like before, but it was good enough, like pretty decent fake meat. Take that story about the two brothers. It delivers the thrill of being scandalized. And that's a mental little bond you feel when you huddle up with someone and judge people together. Clearly the younger brothers, Stephen was wrong, the handsome snake, but also Beth, their brothers.

4 (31m 59s):
Did you really have to do that? But actually hold that thought. There's more, here's the rest of the story apart like Frank, the funny one, he didn't know, his brother had slept with Beth. And about a week later, he also sleeps with Beth. The crush he'd put dibs on back in like eighth grade. He was really excited about

5 (32m 21s):
And the who city with a group of friends, few days after kind of Reno kind of boasting, they were going to have a lockdown thing. And that, you know, this is finally happened on. Then one of these friends was like, Oh wait, but do you know about Stephen? I'm presuming you do I'm. Frank was like, what? And then it was broken to, by this also broken in front of a kind of group of people. And then he kind of had to roll back and be like, I wasn't, I wasn't serious by it. I didn't mean we were going to have a look time thing, which is always more defined when you have been talking earnestly about something and then it's revealed that you didn't have a piece of information that other people had

4 (32m 59s):
Lately. Yeah. Frank called Beth and told her the whole lockdown thing was off. He and his brother had a big falling out and Beth was really sad because it turns out she actually liked Frank back the same way he liked her. The thing with Steven was just a drunk hookup. Frank was the real thing. Oh really? She was like, we could have had a lockdown thing.

5 (33m 25s):
Yeah. She was like, the lockdown thing is off the cards, but it shouldn't have been. And that shouldn't have been where I went and I should have told him

4 (33m 31s):
She was confiding all this and a friend who will call Sarah who then goes off and sleeps with Frank. Even though Beth had just told Sarah how much she liked him. I liked it.

5 (33m 43s):
Everyone behaved as a human dolls, which is like, everyone is self-interested people do do things or the vengeance in spite, but that is just normal behavior. It's part of life. And I think like when we were discussing different, like chapters of the story, one person would be totally appalled by the fact that someone would do something and another person would be like, yeah, I would do that.

4 (34m 5s):
I've kind of been dreading this interview, just like I dread talking to anyone these days, my social skills are rusty. I worried that we'd run out of things to talk about. I had actually postponed our call for a week because of that. But it's really fun to talk with you about this. And I'm like, Oh my God, I'm totally paying attention. I'm following everything she's saying

5 (34m 25s):
I'm operating successfully as a human. Yeah.

4 (34m 29s):
That was a joke. I understood that. It's a joke.

5 (34m 34s):
My joke receptor was that was very funny. And I enjoyed it.

4 (34m 39s):
I did enjoy it. I realized it's one of the most fun conversations I've had in months. It's not about shit-talking people. It's about the shit-talking itself. And the fact that we're doing it together,

1 (34m 59s):
Haven't even told you the last part of the story.

4 (35m 2s):
Smatter her friend, Sarah for sleeping with the guy she liked. So she tells this other friend, Sarah is a slut. And then the other friend turns around and tells Sarah that's called you a slut.

5 (35m 16s):
Peripheral friend is like, well, I know become part of this is she completely inserted herself into the thing. Actually to me, this is the worst. It's like inserting yourself in this with no other lights. So she didn't even sleep with anyone. She just was like, I had to tell her, but also she didn't, you know, when people snitch, they always use a thing of like,

1 (35m 39s):
This is everyone's, they're always like my principals compelled me to deliver the, it was stupid, but I felt I had to, I could actually see myself being the snitch and that situation. She had the right to know it was her. Right. I could see myself doing that, just inserting myself, like the worst character in it too. And then I have no stakes in it just needing to be snitch is like, quite like a controversial thing because the minute I heard, but the snitch, I was like, how could she get her just doing that?

1 (36m 20s):
Like being that person. And then a couple of other people were like, it's too bad. You're the snitch. Okay. So that's the end. So who's right. Who's wrong. Do we care? We do.

0 (36m 50s):
Sullivan is a producer on our show from a gossip and thoughts about gossip. You can find Rachel Connelly's essay that inspired this story and Hassell it. That's where it first came out. It was pretty delightful. It is called the year in gossip, Act three. There's a German word for that. So one thing that we've lost this past year is something big, something we all took for granted. I think something kind of frightening and its implications. And that's the idea that we could come out of a national election and agree that it was legit and agree on who won. You're either on one side of this or the other, either you think the man in the white house today won the election fair and square or you don't to state it clearly.

0 (37m 32s):
And unambiguously. I am the producer of this radio program side with all the people out there who do not think the election was stolen and quitting. Apparently now former Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell, who said that people who believe otherwise were fed lies. But right now millions of people believe that the wrong guy is in the white house. A third of all voters believe that there was widespread fraud, which is remarkable, right back in November journalists in Germany, Johann Bittner was watching this unfold, seeing the fake evidence that was showing up under the hashtag stop. The Steele reading, the president's tweets about supposedly election fraud.

6 (38m 5s):
And for some reason, what Springs to my mind was then the memory of other toy stores, Lagonda or the step in the back with the stab in the back myth that I learned about it in school, I mean more or less, every German would know the step in the back myths because it was such a potent lie in German history.

0 (38m 26s):
Stop. This deal is about losing an election. The stab in the back myth is about losing an entire war, namely world war one, but there are parallels between the two eyes and the way they hold that are in settling, the history goes like this. Basically there came a point in 1918, the United States had entered the war. Germans suffered defeats. It was clear to everybody that Germany was going to lose. In fact, Navy sailors refuse to head out to be killed and what they saw as suicide missions in a war that was doomed within Germany, lots of the population was against it. And so in 1918, the Germans surrendered, the German emperor, Kaiser Wilham the second abdicated. The throne fled the country. Germany became a democracy for the first time, but right away, starting in 1918, coincidentally, also a global pandemic going on right then the 1918 flu 50 million died, right then starting in 1918 right-wing politicians and newspapers started pushing this high kind of steady, angry drumbeat of coverage saying that in fact, they could have won the war if Jews and social Democrats and leftists hadn't stabbed the country in the back by forcing Germany to surrender

6 (39m 32s):
Even the creators of the step in the back with knew that they were lying. No, the likes of, of alluded off who later supported the Nazis that they knew well that the wall was lost was a lost cause.

0 (39m 46s):
So after this myth begins, one of the things that you're right, is that there was no national consensus on the reality on what had happened to them. And it became a possible for democracy to continue.

6 (39m 59s):
Yes, that was quite true. And the disturbing effect of the step on the back myth was that it did not grow weaker, but stronger over the years, you might've expected that eventually people will see the truths. They will acknowledge the facts. They will believe what journalists and observers and historians tell them. But the contrary is true.

0 (40m 31s):
That's actually one of the big things that I took from an op-ed that Yukon wrote about all this back in November, in the New York times that a lie like this might not die off on its own very well might stick around and grow in power

6 (40m 43s):
Throughout the 1920s. The idea that certain Germans were to blame for this defeat for this big loss was very seductive and very attractive. And I would go so far to say that if it hadn't been for the step in the back myths, the Nazis could have never been as successful as they were.

0 (41m 5s):
It was a central premise in Hitler's speeches and ideology. Now, to be clear, you hadn't been there as deeply aware of the differences between America today and Germany in the 1920s. He is not saying that we should expect the rise of a new Adolf Hitler or something like that. But he is saying that with 1920s, Germany shows us is how effective and popular and alternate reality can be in a country. That's deeply polarized. The other point along these lines that really has stayed with me and feels relevant to today in America, is that back in the twenties, people who believe this myth, so their opponents, his traders is people who'd betrayed Germany in this basic fundamental way, which then justified anything that was done against them.

6 (41m 47s):
So the actual accusation was that all the people responsible for the so-called step in the back where criminals, November, November criminals, who signed the armistice in November, 1918. So the idea was that they were the ones who obstructed the legitimate course of history.

0 (42m 16s):
Well, when you say that, it makes me think about the protesters at the Capitol who, who feel like the election has been stolen. Like of course, extreme measures are called for an election, has been stolen from them.

6 (42m 27s):
This is an interesting mindset. Isn't it? I mean, we know it from people who are so convinced of the righteousness of their costs, that they believe that even violence has legitimates to achieve their games. It's it's more or less a terrorist mindset or an extremist mindset. Of course, they feel that they are the actual defenders of the true America. I mean, I, I read that Republicans. We actually spoke out against Trump and against the stop, the steel campaign, they now have to fear for their lives.

0 (42m 60s):
I saw that too. The death threats against Republicans who voted to accept the election results back in the twenties, in Germany, it was violence starting with the German politician who negotiated their terms of surrender in world war II. He was murdered a man named <inaudible>. One of his assassins from a first failed assassination attempt, went on trial and told the judge that he did it because Hertzberger stabbed the country in the back. When the judge asked him where he got this idea, he said newspapers. So yeah, the president Biden's in office signing executive orders and talking about unity and trying to turn the page, but a lie this big, you didn't lose a war.

0 (43m 42s):
You didn't lose an election and stick around and fester and grow. It can lead to people losing faith in the entire system of government. In fact, Germany stopped being a democracy by the thirties and it can lead to violence for choir and twinning. So today's program is about losses that are unaccounted for. And one of my producers on a trophy, Walt has been thinking about the lives of kids during this pandemic year. How do I count for what they've lost? One kid in particular.

7 (44m 17s):
I saw him on zoom last may. I'd gotten an email asking me to show up for some online rallies. And he was at one of them. The rallies were for youth programs in New York city programs that were being considered for budget cuts. My kids after school program was one of them.

1 (44m 34s):
Hey, everybody, welcome to the virtual rally, man. How's everybody doing over here while doing well?

7 (44m 45s):
It's so strange. Going back to this video now and seeing how psyched everyone is to be on zoom together. There's families and staff from programs across the city, and people are practically giddy to see the people we used to see in the world.

1 (44m 60s):
Let's do a selfie really quickly. If folks can just look at me, I'm going to take a picture and then we're going to post it on our social media. So are you ready?

7 (45m 8s):
Yes. I had forgotten this time back then last may we still believed we could get our lives back. People in this rally say, well, obviously we're going to need somewhere to send our kids. We can't just close. All the places children go every day. A single dad says innocently parents need to keep their jobs. There's a program director. His budget is about to be cut. And he's saying, but I mean, we can't lay off hundreds of people in the middle of a pandemic. Come on. This is a lot of what the meeting was. People talking about why their programs shouldn't be cut, especially parents and kids. The kid who has stuck with me many months later is a little boy who spoke to sitting up straight and stiff in a blue colored shirt, clearly nervous.

8 (45m 56s):
Hi everyone. My name is Joel Santana. And I just want to say that, you know,

7 (46m 3s):
First he caught my eye because he seems so little, most kids speaking were teenagers. He looked like he could be nine or 10, but when he spoke, it was clear. He's older in middle school. He talks like a kid who wants to sound like an adult and is eager for his vocabulary to catch up

8 (46m 20s):
Throughout my time there, I got to know people and do engaging activities with them. And now I can call them my friends.

7 (46m 27s):
He's looking increasingly nervous, maybe trying not to cry. I can't tell

8 (46m 32s):
Beacon program really helps people in a community that don't really have anywhere to go after school. You know, it helps. It really helps with the, with, with the community and sorry, one second. Oh,

7 (46m 47s):
He turns off his camera and we all just wait, looking at his black square. Is he coming back 20 seconds pass.

1 (46m 59s):
We love you, Joe, you got this Joelle, you got this.

7 (47m 10s):
He turns his camera back on and finishes.

8 (47m 13s):
I just wanted to say that. I just want to emphasize that it would be such a loss to have some sort of cut that would sort of fro prohibit or our like our growth in the community. And it's so detrimental that youth like me have growth. Again, it would be such a loss to many kids. Oh, thank you.

7 (47m 46s):
Thinking about what's been lost in this past year. I've wondered about Joelle, how scared he seemed of losing his after-school program. How scared he seemed in that moment. I wondered what was going on with him. And if his program got cut and what that 20 seconds silence was about last week, I called him up, introduced myself and asked him. So what was happening when you turned your camera off?

9 (48m 13s):
I probably just like breathing in and out. Yeah. Deep breath out. Because like, it's definitely a hard topic to talk about. And you know, this is something that was definitely a big chunk of my life. And then it was just taken away.

7 (48m 30s):
Joel told me, he wrote out, when he planned to say at the rally in advance, he practiced his comments, practice them in different rooms in his apartment considered if he should print them. No, he should hold them in his hand. No, he should put them to the side. Joel thought somehow, if he said the right words in the exact right way, the program would come back,

9 (48m 52s):
It just felt so important that I made the point clear. I just think that doing this would basically ensure that I still have that part of my life.

7 (49m 3s):
Joel wanted that was so committed to saving his after-school program because there was a big thing that happened to him. There, something that was really big to him. And it's also really small. His mom, Serita Lopez Rodriguez says you have to understand who Joelle was before middle school. There's a reason. Joelle speaks like an adult. He grew up around adults. It was always him and his mom when he was little Serita used to take him to night school. If she couldn't find childcare. When she went to law school, they lived in the dorms together. So Joel spent a lot of time around adults. But with kids, he just could not connect. His mom tried sports programs.

7 (49m 44s):
Joel was not a sports guy. She got him together with her friends, kids he'd hang on her leg. She thought maybe we need to move their Latino Serita thought. Maybe somewhere more diverse. Maybe he just needs to feel more included. So right before middle school, they moved to Queens.

9 (50m 2s):
I try to find the park with like the most kids right now. It looks like he's going to have to play with somebody here, you know, and socialize here. Cause like there were kids playing tag and I kept on telling them picture, we'll just start running. Right? Like run, you know? And they'll include you. They'll ask you if you want to play. Right. And he's like, no, like you have a bunch of kids just playing tag. You know, we would stay, I will be there like two hours and nothing. You know, he made statement and I was just like, okay. He goes, mom, you don't understand the social aspect of being a kid. And I was like, okay. She said those words. Yes, he did literally said those words. And I was just like looking at her. I'm like,

7 (50m 43s):
Then Joelle started middle school. Serita signed him up for the after-school program. And that's when something big happened for Joelle. He made a friend to actually afterschool James and Richard and then walking home from afterschool. One day, Joel met a kid named Daniel who has become his best friend. Joel told me that could easily have never happened. The two of them crossing paths at the exact same time.

9 (51m 10s):
And if he were the, and he was home part of it in the middle, in the middle of Becca, probably not part of Trump to actually, and you know, have a, have a friendship.

7 (51m 21s):
He says, if Daniel went in just a millisecond sooner, they wouldn't have had a chance to meet and have a friendship. And what would that have meant for you?

9 (51m 30s):
I, I honestly, I don't know doing a really good assessment, like having a best friend. And I just think that no, I had to hide that before. Like a friend would come over to my house and just like play video games and hang out.

7 (51m 46s):
Joelle said, I'm an only child. This was huge for him. And after that, he threw himself into the world in a way he had never done before at lunchtime, he had a table of friends to sit with. He signed up for photography. And after school, he ran for president of the after-school student council and he won. He saw a counselor one day playing with devil sticks, sort of like juggling and Joelle begged his mom to get him. Some Serita told me he was obsessive about mastering it. It was the first time she'd seen him have a hobby. Joelle was suddenly enthusiastically responding to the people and opportunities and chance encounters around him.

7 (52m 26s):
He was mastering the social aspect of being a kid. And then in the middle of seventh grade with the pandemic after school shut down, it went before regular school closed. And those first few weeks were jarring getting home early, letting himself into the house.

9 (52m 43s):
And it didn't feel right. It didn't feel like normal.

7 (52m 48s):
What'd you do with your time?

9 (52m 56s):
I dunno. I ate a snack. It was just, it just felt blank. I would just found myself either just laying down on my dread and just bored. It's just been overwhelming. There's was just boredom all the time.

7 (53m 10s):
That has not gone away. Joelle's mom told me sometimes you still find some lying on the bed, no phone or book, just staring at the ceiling. Right. When his world should have been getting bigger, it's gotten so much smaller. He goes from his bedroom to the living room, to the kitchen. He talks to his mom, asked if he sees friends in online school. Joel said, yeah, that's not the same. I asked if he calls his best friend Daniel. He says, yeah.

9 (53m 39s):
Again, it's not the same.

7 (53m 42s):
Yeah. I was just thinking, listening to you. I know there's a lot of concern about learning loss, like kids missing out on the things that you would normally learn in middle school, like developing your writing skills and learning algebra and geometry. Do you think there are things that are not accounted for on that list?

9 (54m 3s):
Some of my friends, honestly, I have lost connection with a lot of my friends because of this. And I really wish it would be different, but no, I think the most that's not accounted for is the social aspect that you're supposed to have. That is the one of the biggest ones. The social aspect. Yeah. And you had just gotten that. Yeah.

7 (54m 34s):
There are other losses we know have been suffered by children this past year. Kids have lost family members. They've lost learning stability, sometimes access to food. There are the losses we know, but what does it mean to lose your 13th year in the world? What would have happened for Joelle in just one year he made a friend. He learned how to make his way through a middle school. Cafeteria. How to look around and say, no, not that table. Not there. Yes here. This is the place for me. He found his first hobby. You learned, he could ask his peers to vote for him and his ideas and they would, what else might've happened?

7 (55m 15s):
No one ever says you're only 39 once, but you really are only 13. Once Joel finished seventh grade at home, he'll probably finish eighth grade at home too. And the next time you stepped foot in a school building, it will be to start high school. He's never going back to middle school. That's gone. Whoever he might have become. That's gone too

0 (55m 47s):
On a Duffy wall is one of the producers of our show. If you have not heard her podcast, nice white parents that you made with the cereal team it's available. Wherever you get your podcasts <inaudible> is produced today by Nadia, Raymond, the people who put a show together today include BIM out of wound me out on Baker. Susan Burton, Ben Calhoun, Dan achiever, Sean Colavita Kornfeld Damien grave. <inaudible> stone Nelson, Catherine Raymondo Ari Safferstein Robin Semyon, Lily Sullivan, Christus or tyranny, Julie Whittaker and Diane woo.

0 (56m 32s):
Our managing editor, Sarah Abdurrahman, our senior editors, David Kestenbaum. Our executive editor is Emmanuel Barry special. Thanks today to Paul Hammel gloss, Rachel Glissy, who is <inaudible> Harrison Nesbitt, Felix and Igor. Babak our website, this American life.org. You can stream our archive of over 700 episodes for absolutely free. Also there's lists of favorite shows, videos we've made over the years, twinks to our television program and tons of other stuff there again, this American life.org, this American life is to give it to public radio stations by PRX, the public radio exchange. Thanks as always to our programs. Co-founder Mr. <inaudible>, you know, he's redoing the dry wall in his house. He's got all the supplies, trout, sandpaper ladder.

0 (57m 14s):
It took him a long time. He was covered in white dust or as he puts it by the end of the day, like totally plasters I'm Eric Glass back next week with more stories of this American life

10 (57m 26s):
<inaudible>.