0 (1s):
It's this American life from W B E Z Chicago. I'm Susan Burton sitting in for Ira Glass today. There are these videos I've been watching videos of female politicians telling very personal stories. Here's one of them. It shows Gretchen Whitner. She's now the governor of Michigan, but she's speaking here a few years ago when she was a member of the state legislature.

1 (24s):
I've said it before and I will say it again. This is by far one of the most misogynistic proposals I've ever seen in the Michigan legislature.

0 (32s):
Whitmer is explaining why she's voting no on a bill that would forbid women from using insurance to cover abortion unless they bought separate abortion insurance, what Whitmer calls rape insurance,

1 (44s):
And now

0 (45s):
Just an alert that their sexual assault content ahead.

1 (48s):
And for those of you who want to act aghast, that I'd use a term like rape insurance to describe the proposal here in front of us. You should be even more offended that it's absolutely accurate description of what this proposal requires. This tells women that were raped and became pregnant, that they should have thought ahead and bought special insurance for it.

0 (1m 12s):
She's been talking for several minutes when suddenly she stops, sets her papers down.

1 (1m 17s):
I have a lot more prepared remarks here, but I think it's important for me to just mention a couple things. So I'm about to tell you something that I've not shared with many people in my life, but over 20 years ago, I was a victim of rape and thank God it didn't result in a pregnancy because I can't imagine going through what I went through and then having to consider what to do about an unwanted pregnancy from an attacker.

0 (1m 50s):
The whole time Whitmer talks, she grips the sides of the lectern. Her face looks like she's in pain.

1 (1m 56s):
I am not enjoying talking about it. It's something I've hidden for a long time, but I think you need to see the face of the women that you are impacting by this vote today. I asked that my comments be my no vote explanation,

0 (2m 16s):
My no vote explanation. She says Whitmer story wasn't planned. She said later that she decided to tell her secret in that moment, standing at the mic, as soon as she left the floor and got into her car, Whitmer called her father. She'd never told him that she'd been raped. She didn't want him to hear about it on the news that night. She hadn't expected to tell the Michigan legislature before. She told him. I wondered if the call to her father was harder. I think it's sometimes easier to tell a secret in public than in private safer to have that distance. When I first saw Whitmore's video a year ago, I was on the verge of revealing a secret in a very public way in a book that was about to to be published.

0 (3m 0s):
I'd written a memoir about my eating disorder and until recently, that eating disorder, it had been a secret from everyone in my life. Sometimes people say everyone and then follow it with an accept like except my mom and my best friend. I really do mean everyone. Not even my husband knew, and we'd been together for 25 years. I'd never talked about it, and I'd also never been in therapy for it. When I finally did seek help, I was 45 in the very first session, my therapist, trying to get the story straight or maybe just trying to get me to hear how absurd the sounded said.

0 (3m 41s):
You wrote a whole book about this, but you've never talked about it with anyone. That was right. I'd gone to see the therapist, partly because it did seem kind of messed up to me what I'd done. I knew it was just as urgent to understand my relationship with secrets as my relationship with food. That's where I was when I watched Whitmer speech, thinking a lot about secrets and why we tell them and the form they take when we do. What made Whitmer speech so powerful was that her secret was not just a confession, it was an argument. It was told to persuade. I was moved by her video and I went looking for others like it. Of course, politicians tell personal stories and speeches all the time, but disclosing something you've kept private for years and doing it in a legislative session, sometimes spontaneously, that's pretty new.

0 (4m 32s):
Almost every example I turned up was about sexual trauma, which I mean, there are a bunch of reasons for this, but a big one is the increasing number of bills that try to restrict access to abortion. I watched videos from all over the country, Victoria Steel in Arizona, Teresa Feder in Ohio, Mandy Wright in Wisconsin, Nancy Mace in South Carolina. One of the things I wondered about was what prompted them to speak, like what exactly made them stand up and say it. A couple said they were infuriated by the conversation in the room, comments like women lie about being raped, and I wondered what it felt like to say the secret when Yu knew, disclosed to the New York State Assembly, that at age 13 she'd been abused by a teacher.

0 (5m 19s):
She drew attention to what was happening in her body as she spoke.

2 (5m 22s):
I never speak on this bill for this reason because I literally can't stop shaking. Thank you so much.

0 (5m 36s):
Just a couple weeks ago, there was another similar video that got a lot of attention from New York, Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez tactics. She's talking about the riot at the capital, and then she revealed this.

4 (5m 52s):
I'm a survivor of sexual assault, and I haven't told many people that in my life,

0 (6m 1s):
Ocasio Cortez didn't say this in a legislative session. Her video was on Instagram Live, but it felt like the others I'd watched and that she was using her secret to make an argument in this case about the impact of trauma, the different kinds of trauma compound on each other. She and the others spoke out because there was something important at stake. They disclosed their secrets as a public service. Of course, for most of us, the reasons we tell secrets, they're not as straightforward. My own reasons for telling my secret, I can't even call them reasons. That's too rational. What I had was an urge to tell one driven by desperation, obsession, anger, belonging, to be known and understood.

0 (6m 45s):
There are all kinds of secrets and all kinds of reasons for telling and not telling our show. This week is a rerun, and it's about why we tell secrets and what happens after we do stay with us. Act one. My own very serious comedy about women and food. So let's get into why you might hold onto a secret, why it might be so hard to tell, and if you have an eating disorder or are in recovery for one a heads up that there's stuff in here that could be triggering.

0 (7m 26s):
I wanna start by telling you about a movie, one that I saw as a teenager, one that addressed my secret directly. It was an art house movie called Eating Subtitle. A very serious comedy about women and food. The summer I was 17, my mother and I went to see it together. What are you doing? I'd been bingeing eating for a couple years by then. In fact, I'm sure I binged before the movie. Sitting next to my mother, I was uneasy. I binging was a secret. It was like the movie itself might give me away.

6 (7m 57s):
You binged, don't you?

7 (8m 0s):
No, I was

6 (8m 1s):
Just having a come on. I've been binging since I was your age. I know about binging.

7 (8m 5s):
Please don't tell my mother I'm eating.

6 (8m 10s):
Do you know how you're gonna stop?

7 (8m 13s):
I think I'm gonna quit eating altogether. That's the only way.

0 (8m 17s):
Quit eating altogether. This was my only way too. Within a few years after that movie, I was anorexic. Then back to binging, then anorexia again. More years passed decades like some of the women in the movie. I never stopped having an eating disorder.

8 (8m 37s):
I'm never going to ever be able to be like normal people with food. I mean, I'm always going to be at the mercy of it, and it's a very, very scary feeling. It's very, very powerful and I hate it.

0 (8m 56s):
The summer I was 45, I watched eating again. The first thing I felt was nostalgia, shoulder pads, brand muffins, Laura Ashley lines like, You got a perm. You

10 (9m 8s):
Got a

0 (9m 9s):
Perm. And the second thing I felt was, Oh my God, not only is this movie about eating, it's about talent, which was the thing I was obsessed with at that point. The movie is fiction, but it feels like a documentary because a lot of it is women staring into the camera telling personal stories about food. The setting is a 40th birthday party in Los Angeles, and one of the main characters is a filmmaker named Martin. She's making a documentary to help her understand her own eating disorder. Identified with that. At first, Martin tells everyone at the party that her film is about women in Southern California. Finally, she owns up to her real subject.

10 (9m 49s):
To tell you the truth, my whole documentary is about that Women in food. That's really why I'm here for

9 (9m 57s):
Really? Yeah. Why then did you say the documentary was about women in California?

10 (10m 4s):
Actually, South Southern Californian behavior, because it's more general. You know, you seem it in awkward to people. When you say women in food, just start wondering why Women in food. It's the most terrible thing.

0 (10m 16s):
Just like Martin, I'd hidden my real subject, that eating disorder memoir. I was writing. I told people my book was a cultural history of the teenage girl. It actually had started out that way, but it took me a long time to admit what I really wanted to write about. For years, I was ashamed of my own story. Same as Martin. You

10 (10m 37s):
Know, you can say I'm an alcoholic, I feel, or I'm drug addict. That's okay. But it's like, you know, kind of interesting. But just saying, I, you know, eating disorder. I just want to eat. I just want, That's so unattractive. It's so disturbing. I just was never able to tell that to anyone.

0 (10m 58s):
In lots of ways. This movie is dated and judgemental, but it's unapologetically about eating, which still feels radical. One by one, the women come and sit before Martin's camera and she asks them, tell me, Do you have any problem about food? At the end of the movie, she says that hearing their stories has changed things for her,

10 (11m 19s):
And I feel so close to them and it's such a wonderful feeling. It makes me feel, I don't want to be alone anymore. I want to be able to share things with other people. You know,

0 (11m 30s):
Maybe this sounds sappy, but these lines did something to me. It's what I wanted too. I wanted Martin to invite me to sit in front of her camera and ask, Do you have any problem about food? I wanted to be Martin, asking others that question. I wanted to be at the party with other women talking. I closed my laptop. I went downstairs to the kitchen and from the freezer I took at a lemon bar the size of a checkerboard square. I put the lemon bar on a plate the size of something a child would use at a tea party. I sliced the bar into strips and then into tiny bites. I sat at the table and I ate all the bites. Then I wanted more, but I wouldn't let myself have it by this point.

0 (12m 13s):
I'd had enough therapy to understand that what I did with food was what I did with people. Fearful of connection, but so hungry for it. Sitting at the table, I started to fantasize about making my own version of the film, a radio version. I wanted to have a party. Like in the movie, though I didn't know who I'd invite. A year passed. I got a little better. I told people close to me about my history. I told others I talked more. Then my memoir was published. I'd expected to hear from readers who connected with my experience of an eating disorder. What surprised me was how many also connected with my experience of not talking about it.

0 (12m 57s):
I realized here were my party guests. I emailed them back with invitations to speak.

11 (13m 3s):
I've not really had a conversation with some with another person who has suffered from eating disorder and, and it sounds wild to admit that, but it's true.

12 (13m 15s):
I think this is the most I've ever talked about it. It's certainly the most I've ever talked about, like the binging side of things and like eating other people's food.

11 (13m 25s):
And to be honest, this is aside from my therapist, is the first, You are the first person I've ever told about that binging. Yeah. Because I am so ashamed of it. I am so ashamed of the way I looked. Then what I did then I, I just, I, yeah. Shame.

0 (13m 47s):
Have you talked to anybody else besides the nutritionist about this stuff?

13 (13m 52s):
Just you?

0 (13m 53s):
Yeah. How does it feel to be talking about it?

14 (13m 57s):
I th I'm fine talking about it with you cause I know you really get it.

0 (14m 2s):
Yeah. How does it feel to be talking about this stuff? I asked everyone that question and I paid attention to what it felt like for me. Sometimes I felt self-conscious. I seize up in conversation, have more ease when I write, but I also felt the connection. I'd craved. I'd never met these women, but I knew them because we'd been alone in the same ways.

13 (14m 25s):
It is such a lonely experience going through daily restriction, purge and forming all the behaviors of a normal diet without anyone catching on. I mean, I think that sharing stories really does help. Cause that is the scariest piece, at least for me, of living with an eating disorder is feeling so alone.

0 (14m 50s):
Yeah. I mean, yeah, me too. Some of them said, Your book made me feel less alone. And when I said back, Well, this conversation made me feel less alone. I half worried it sounded insincere and half worried they'd be weirded out if they knew just how sincere I was. And in every conversation we talked about the thing, I was so curious about why it was so hard to tell anyone about this stuff or talk about it.

11 (15m 23s):
I think the secrecy, to be honest, is it's that how eating disorders, at least for me, are deeply tied to sexuality. I, I think that that's why it's such a hard thing for me to talk about because it's very much tied to that.

15 (15m 44s):
There's two things for the anorexia side of it. I think that it's because you don't want people to think you're shallow. I don't want people to think, Oh, well, she just wants to be skinny. And with the binging to anyone that's never experienced it, you sound out of your mind. It's just, it doesn't make any sense at all. And you know, when you explain it like as though it's an addiction and whatever, maybe people will have some better sense of it. But, you know, it's, it's helpful to talk to someone who's been there.

12 (16m 16s):
I think, I mean, I think for me, like one of the reasons why I haven't been able to like talk to my therapist about it and get like really meaningful help is because I just don't even know how to talk about it. Yeah. Like I don't hear other people talk about it. Like I don't, I guess I kind of know what the vocabulary is, but like, basically my only experience is like, I read other people's books about it. Like I don't talk to other people about it.

0 (16m 44s):
Among these women, there was one who was really brand new to talking about her eating disorder, had only recently even identified it as an eating disorder. And that's the conversation I'm gonna play next because on one level, it's exactly what I'd hoped for. Just a real and good conversation with a woman who shared the experience of having an eating disorder, but also I think it gets at something important about why we keep any kind of secret. The conversation started the same way as all of them with Audrey, that's not her real name, telling me the history of her eating disorder.

14 (17m 18s):
I thought nobody else had ever done that. I, I had never heard of bulimia. I, I thought I was the only person who had ever done that.

0 (17m 25s):
Audrey is 63 and she started binging and purging in college in the 1970s. This was before eating disorders were on after school specials, before bulimia had been defined in a psychological journal. I wondered how Audrey had gotten the idea, like, do you remember how it occurred to you to do it? To purge?

14 (17m 49s):
I don't, I don't remember the initial time, but I had been eating, as my brain still says, eating like a pig. And I thought, Well, I've gotta get rid of this. I I I've gotta make up for it somehow.

0 (18m 6s):
Yeah.

14 (18m 8s):
And so that's what I started doing. And then I would spend my days in the dining hall eating and then my afternoons finding a bathroom somewhere to get rid of it.

0 (18m 19s):
Audrey kept binging and purging and then she stopped the purging part.

14 (18m 24s):
And what finally stopped me was I went to the health service for something, I don't remember what, and there was a bottle of IAC on the counter. And when the nurse was out of the room, I stole it.

0 (18m 35s):
IAC syrup is used to cause vomiting. It used to be a common thing that people had in their medicine cabinets.

14 (18m 41s):
And I went back to my room and this was Halloween night, I remember. And I drank the entire thing and I got so violently ill.

0 (18m 54s):
Did you, had you used ICA syrup before to purge?

14 (18m 59s):
No, no, no. Just a finger.

0 (19m 3s):
And how come you drank the whole bottle?

14 (19m 9s):
I was so angry with myself. I was just so angry with myself. I thought, I'm just gonna drink this whole damn thing.

0 (19m 16s):
Yeah. I knew that anger knew the feeling of standing in a dorm room, hating myself. Audrey told this one story about leaving campus to binge that I so related to. I knew the same shame

14 (19m 30s):
I was walking up the street to a chicken place that I knew of, that I knew no, no other college students went to. And that's where I went there and on my way to a bench. And there was this guy who started walking behind me and he started whispering me. Big ass. Big ass. And I wasn't scared. I was ashamed. I was embarrassed. I mean, the fact that this guy could have attacked me or whatever his problem was wasn't. And I never turned and looked at him. Yeah. He followed me all the way to the place. And then I went in and I was embarrassed.

14 (20m 9s):
Cause oh my God, I forgot this. I was embarrassed because I thought, oh, he knew. Now he knows where I was going. He knows I was going to eat like that. Like that was the problem.

0 (20m 21s):
Right? I mean, it just becomes so all consuming that of course that's what everybody else is thinking because it's the central part of, of your own experience. Yeah.

14 (20m 31s):
I have spent so many years thinking about this. I can't believe it. I mean, really, if you put it all together, Years of my life, this has been sort of the, the soundtrack going on underneath everything else.

0 (20m 47s):
Even Audrey kept binging for most of the next 40 years. That's not what she called it. And then in your head, it sounds like the phrase you used like a pig, Is that, is that the phrase you used? Yep. Yeah. I mean, my phrase was eating bad.

14 (21m 2s):
Oh my God. When I read that in your book, I thought, I so get it. I so get it.

0 (21m 8s):
Yeah.

14 (21m 9s):
I didn't, Susan, I didn't know binge eating disorder was a thing until I read your book.

0 (21m 16s):
Yeah. So how, I mean, how did you make sense of it for yourself without, without having a name for it?

14 (21m 26s):
I just thought of it as weakness.

0 (21m 30s):
Yeah.

14 (21m 30s):
I just thought of it as that I was so ridiculously weak that I couldn't stop eating.

0 (21m 38s):
Binge eating disorder is the most common eating disorder, but the least talked about, it only became a formal eating disorder diagnosis a few years back. When I was in college in the early nineties, I spent hours in the stacks reading about eating disorders and I couldn't find mine in any of the texts. The best I could determine was that I had bulimia without the throwing up. But that seemed like half a problem. I know I had a whole problem, a real one. I had this kind of fiery, righteous thing going on where I felt like I knew more than the scientists, but my certainty that there was something really wrong with me that I alone had diagnosed, did not feel triumphant.

0 (22m 19s):
It was incredibly isolating to have an experience that I couldn't find named anywhere. A binge. It's eating a lot all at once past the point of discomfort, binge eating disorder. I can offer a textbook definition of it here, but Audrey's experience is the textbook definition.

14 (22m 38s):
I just kind of disappear. I just kind of eat. And it's a time in which I feel like everything's okay. Actually while I'm eating, while I'm putting stuff in my mouth, I feel like everything's okay.

0 (22m 53s):
Yeah.

14 (22m 54s):
But I'm kind of not really there.

0 (22m 57s):
Yeah. How do you feel right after?

14 (23m 1s):
Oh God, awful. Awful. Another day ruined, I mean, and yes, I have felt hopeless. I have felt extremely hopeless, you know, having done it again.

0 (23m 14s):
Yeah.

14 (23m 16s):
And then doing it again the next night. And I felt completely hopeless and out of control of it and hating myself for it.

0 (23m 25s):
That's pretty much the cycle, the anesthetized feeling during the binge, the self-loathing that follows feeling like this is out of your control, but also that you should be able to stop and the secrecy about all of it. So you didn't, you didn't tell your roommate senior year. Did you ever want to tell anyone about it?

14 (23m 47s):
No. Oh my gosh. No. I never wanted to tell anybody. No. It was,

0 (23m 52s):
Yeah,

14 (23m 54s):
I, I've been in therapy most of my life and I have never told any of my therapists about this. Didn't occur to me that I would talk about it.

0 (24m 5s):
Why do you think that is?

14 (24m 9s):
I think it's just so embarrassing and it's, it's, it's really shameful and it's something that I should be able to handle by myself. I, I don't know, I think I just kind of blanked it out when I went to therapy to talk. It was too personal, which is bizarre. I mean, I told my therapist all sorts of personal stuff, but that was, that was too embarrassing. And I never thought of myself as having an eating disorder, binge eating. I never thought of that as a disorder. I thought of it as a lack of discipline.

0 (24m 54s):
If you had thought of it as a disorder, do you think that would've made you any more likely to talk about it in therapy? Yeah.

14 (25m 2s):
Yeah. If I thought it was a disorder. Yeah. I mean, you know, I'm, I'm from a doctor's family, so you know, any, anything that can be, you know, in a book somewhere I can accept. So yeah. If I thought of it as a disorder, I probably would've talked about it.

0 (25m 22s):
Yeah. Yeah.

14 (25m 24s):
You know, you, in your email you talked about the, the movie eating right. And I went to see it when it came out with a friend of mine. Yeah. And we came out of the movie and we talked about it a little bit.

0 (25m 40s):
Yeah.

14 (25m 41s):
But not a whole lot. It was way too close to home for me. And I don't know if it was too close to home for her, but it was uncomfortable.

0 (25m 52s):
It's so interesting. I'm so, I'm so glad that you had the experience seeing that movie in the theater when it came out. You're the only person I've ever talked to who's also seen this movie, so this is very exciting for me. So when, so how, like what age were you when you saw that movie in the

14 (26m 10s):
Theater? Oh, 1990. So I don't know.

0 (26m 14s):
So you're like in your thirties? Yeah,

14 (26m 16s):
I was in my thirties and I remember lines from that. I saw it once.

0 (26m 20s):
Yeah.

14 (26m 21s):
But I still remember lines from that movie. I remember there's a woman who's sitting in a jacket and she says, I'm wearing this jacket cause I don't want you to see my arms.

16 (26m 29s):
I wear clothes to conceal it. I mean, I have this jacket on because I don't want you to see my fat arms.

14 (26m 35s):
And then there the older, well she's my age now, but there's the older woman who says, I don't understand these girls. Why don't they just drink

0 (26m 44s):
Food,

17 (26m 44s):
Food, food. That's all I hear is food. Now. I really enjoy eating. I always have in my time, we'd get together to have a drink or cocktails and hors deu. I mean, that was always, you know, that was a more desirable invitation than going to dinner.

14 (27m 2s):
And I thought, what is wrong with me? Why don't I just drink? I really did. What is wrong with me? Why don't I just drink instead of eating? I

17 (27m 10s):
Don't think,

0 (27m 11s):
Elaine, what else do you remember? Do you remember any, anything else?

14 (27m 15s):
I remember it was really an embarrassing experience watching the movie and uncomfortable. And the friend I went with is very lighthearted. And then we came outta that movie and it was, it was pretty dark there for a few minutes.

0 (27m 32s):
Do you think she connected with it too?

14 (27m 36s):
My feeling was that she connected with it on the level of women in this culture are told not to eat very much. She connected with it like a normal person, Like a normal woman who, you know, suffers under the onus of you're not supposed to eat too much, but not like somebody like me. But can I ask you something? Yeah. When you saw it with your mom, do you think your mom was already worried about you? And maybe that's why she didn't really say much about the movie.

0 (28m 10s):
She, you know, we've talked some now about my eating disorders and she didn't know about the binging. And my mother probably is somewhere on the spectrum of like in between eating, having been really a destructive force and the friend with whom you saw the movie who's like a woman. So she can relate to it on that level.

14 (28m 28s):
I'm so glad you understand what I mean by that, about my, my friend being a normal woman worried about it as opposed to somebody with a problem about it.

0 (28m 37s):
Well, I always wanted to be a normal woman. Worried about it. Yeah.

14 (28m 43s):
Honestly, that film drove me further underground.

0 (28m 46s):
How so?

14 (28m 48s):
Because I think because of the, now that I'm thinking about it, I think because of the judgment, it's just thick with judgment of these women and their problems. And I thought, whoa, you know, I was right. This absolutely must remain a secret forever.

0 (29m 7s):
Yeah.

14 (29m 8s):
And I didn't even, I don't even think consciously, I mean I recently have started thinking consciously about it, but I've, I've never even thought consciously about, gee, I better not tell anybody. It's like that. That would never in a million years have occurred to me to tell somebody.

0 (29m 23s):
What finally prompted Audrey to tell somebody was learning that this thing she did in secret was something that many other people also did. And that it had a name. It doesn't always work this way. Naming isn't always something you want. I talked to one woman who for years didn't tell anyone about her bulimia because she didn't want the label. She didn't wanna be saddled with shame. She could never shake as long as she could fix it herself. The eating disorder never existed in the first place. Finally, she did tell, and she did name it, which was terrifying because it made it real, but it also made it more manageable. Another woman I talked to was also reluctant to name her eating disorder, not because she didn't want the label, but because she didn't feel she lived up to it.

11 (30m 10s):
I just didn't think I qualified. I, yeah, I didn't feel like I was not sick enough. You know, the images I had in my head of eating disordered people were, you know, a very, very rail thin person wearing a hospital gown who's being forced fed. I, I, you know, that's, that's what I thought

0 (30m 28s):
This ambivalence about naming was totally familiar to me. When I first went to therapy, it took me a few months to look up my diagnosis code. I was scared to know what was now on my permanent record. And when I looked it up and saw it was anorexia, I got nervous in a new way. Like my therapist didn't understand, I wanted to take off all my clothes and show that I wasn't thin enough to be anorexic. What I didn't get yet was that one, you can be anorexic at any size. And two, that my feelings were the essence of the illness. I'm not good enough to be anorexic. I'm not good enough.

0 (31m 14s):
A name gave Audrey the words to say the unspeakable, and it gave her the permission she needed to ask for help. After Audrey realized she might have been cheating disorder, she contacted a nutritionist.

14 (31m 25s):
So I, I contacted her and when I emailed it that I thought I might have this problem, I felt okay. But when I called her and we spoke, I I, I couldn't commit. I was like, I I, I don't know if I really have it or not. I, I, maybe I do, I don't know, I don't do it all the time, you know? Yeah. And she said, Well, you know, you, we, we don't necessarily have to name it. You may have features of it. And what I thought was, No, no, no, I have it.

0 (32m 2s):
Sorry, I'm laughing only cuz I totally relate. Yeah,

14 (32m 6s):
I know you do.

0 (32m 8s):
So what feels, what feels helpful about talking about it or what has felt helpful so far?

14 (32m 17s):
What's made a difference for me is that it's a, a named problem and it, it's not a failure of character, but a disorder that you know has that can be treated.

0 (32m 43s):
Treatment for an eating disorder involves both changing behaviors and addressing the underlying emotional reasons for them. That's exactly what Audrey's doing in the months since she and I spoke. She's continued with the nutritionist and now she's also seeing a therapist. She's not over this yet, but she's working on it. That's where I am too. But I struggle with a lot of, why can't I just <inaudible> get over it. Recently my therapist suggested that I thought that telling my story would release me from shame. I got a little defensive. No, no, I hadn't thought that, but she was right.

0 (33m 22s):
Telling my story has opened up a lot for me, especially with the people I'm closest to. But telling is a beginning, not an end. It's not a solution. It doesn't fix your eating, it doesn't release you from shame to release yourself from shame. You need to understand where the shame comes from. Telling alone doesn't get you there, but it puts you in conversation with people who can help. It gets you to the party with other women talking, Coming up, keeping your job secret from your children and your children secret from your job.

0 (34m 13s):
That's in a minute. From Chicago Public Radio. When our program continues, it's this American Life. I'm Susan Burton. Today's program Secrets stories about why we tell them and why we don't. Today's show is a rerun. We've arrived at act two of our show. Act two, Mommy's busy right now. Secrets are especially hard to keep from the people you live with. Here's kind of an unusual example from the beginning of the pandemic. It was March, 2020. Schools were shutting down and producer Lena Masisi saw a tweet from a mother who had a problem. Lots of mothers had, but a more extreme version of it, she makes porn at home.

0 (34m 55s):
Her tweet, I work when my kids are in school. School is on the verge of closing. It'll be difficult to make content when that happens. A warning, the story is about someone making porn and keeping it from their kids. You might wanna do the same. There's some sexual content. Here's Lena.

18 (35m 13s):
Alana makes ala carte porn, short videos of herself for people to buy and her fans can book her for one-on-one cam shows we got on the phone in May. Hello? Two months after that tweet. Okay Lana. So, so two months into her kids remote learning,

19 (35m 27s):
I'm just gonna escape from the teacher YouTube video for a minute.

18 (35m 32s):
By the way, Lana's not her real name, it's her performer name. I asked, what is it like now that her family's always home? And she said basically it's been tough the time she used to spend on her own work is now dedicated to the kids' schooling.

19 (35m 46s):
And then, you know, five o'clock it's just dinner, bath and bed as it as it usually is. Wait, are

18 (35m 51s):
You still shooting any content from the house?

19 (35m 54s):
Not really. I just don't anymore because after nine o'clock I just feel so exhausted Now I just can't, I can't do it. At night.

18 (36m 6s):
Lana had stopped shooting, which I wasn't so surprised. But then a few minutes after we hung up, I got a text message from her. She wrote, It's not safe for sex workers to say what they shoot at home while their kids are home. So I called her back right away. It turned out she hadn't been totally honest with me.

19 (36m 24s):
You know, you asked me if I made content ever when they're home. Like I have to, I have to. It's like, it's like being in the closet in your own home and you're, and you're trying to work and you have to deliver this media to people who have paid already for it. You know, you're under these deadlines to make porn

18 (36m 47s):
A big reason Lana wasn't immediately up front. She doesn't want other moms in her world knowing what she does for work. Lana told me that's because she knows what the other moms think of her job. A couple years ago they were passing around a documentary about the dangers of porn.

19 (37m 2s):
It it's, it's vilified. It's something to be afraid of. They look at it as something that's very degrading to women. Like I'm just degrading myself. I really enjoy my own sexuality. And being able to tap into that for other people who are looking for something really niche and specific, they don't see it that way at all. They see it as this like disease. And if they see me as that, I don't know if they would continue to wanna plan play dates with my daughter.

18 (37m 45s):
So she's kept her job a secret for years from the other moms and of course from her own kids. Which just to say, doing your job while your kids are at home, that's one thing. Doing a secret job while your kids are at home, that's a whole other thing. And on top of that, the kids at home, they're also a secret from Lana's customers for them. Lana has no family. She exists solely in the fantasy they're paying for. So Lana's having to switch back and forth between these different sides of her life. Each one has to be completely invisible to the other. But she stunningly can do about it. Very matter of fact, whenever I bring up how stressful, it seems like it's a puzzle, a bunch of moving parts, all of them have a place just it needs solving.

19 (38m 34s):
Okay, so a typical morning before, you know any kids come downstairs, I'll shoot a small Snapchat clip one is kind of G-rated for my promotional and the other one is adult for my premium members. So that's done in the morning. And

18 (38m 52s):
So that is time for the kids to get up, get dressed, she makes them breakfast, situates them for virtual learning. By the way, Lana is married, her husband knows about and supports her work, but because of the nature of his work, he's often tied up during the day leaving it to Lana. So while the kids are in Zoom school, she looks for small moments when it makes sense to slip away core when they're allowed their screen time occupied by Minecraft or YouTube.

19 (39m 19s):
Or I'll even sneak off into the bathroom with the door locked. You know, do like a shower scene sometimes like there's some P clips because there's a bunch of P fans out there.

18 (39m 32s):
What's interesting actually about most of what you just said is that it's the stuff that you'd be doing in the bathroom with the door closed and locked anyway. Like, like you're, you're multitasking.

19 (39m 42s):
Yeah, yeah. You work it in. Oh my god. It's like every time you sit on the toilet or figured you know, or you turn on the shower, you're like, okay, wait a minute, should I be shooting this? Like should, cause what, what section of my fans will this be good for

18 (39m 57s):
The day? Before Anna said

19 (39m 59s):
I had to go into the kids' bathroom cuz that was like the, the room that was the most far away from where everyone else was, you know, And like there's just, there's like towels everywhere. There's like an owl picture, the bathroom's painted yellow, like just not the greatest room for porn. So like I have to go in really close and speak, you know, like kind of quietly.

18 (40m 25s):
Lana's been careful to manage what her kids know about her job at the time. Her daughter was 11 perceptive, starting to have some questions. Sometimes she'd noticed Lana wearing something out of the ordinary beneath her t-shirt and jeans like full body lingerie or something. And she'd ask her mom, why are you wearing that?

19 (40m 43s):
And I'll be like, Oh yeah, sorry, this is for work. And she'll be like, Mm, okay.

18 (40m 48s):
Do you, do you think it's possible that she just doesn't know that there is more to know than that or I don't, I just, I don't remember when. When do kids figure out that sexuality is like a commodity?

19 (41m 4s):
I think that she is pretty close. Like she will eventually figure this out.

18 (41m 10s):
Here's what Lana's daughter does know. She knows her mom has a quote grown up job, which is why she has a lot of fun clothes and high heels, which she likes to try on. She knows her mom takes pictures for people and makes videos for them. And she knows that sometimes people like to buy her mom's clothes after she's worn them. And that's what she knows for now. She isn't asking for more and Lana's waiting for her to ask. And her son, he was six when we talked. He didn't know anything about his mom's work yet. Like he didn't even know it was a door. He could knock on knocking on doors. By the way, a lesson he should probably learn sooner than later. One time Lana told me she snuck off for a quick cam show.

19 (41m 52s):
I went upstairs, I forgot to lock the door and I had just like pulled down my legging, still had my underwear on and like my son started walking up the stairs and I'm on camera already and I had to like, you know, pull up my pants really fast and I'm like, hey, you know what's up? And it's like, you know, my kindle's not working. It's like, oh my god,

18 (42m 13s):
It worked out fine. Lana put the phone down before her son even walked into the room and met him out in the hallway. Actually almost the exact same thing happened on our phone call too

19 (42m 23s):
For a second. Hold on one moment. What baby? Oh can I have some more Kindle?

18 (42m 29s):
She gave him more Kindle. It's not just her kids looking for more screen time, it's also her clients. When the pandemic started, porn consumption in America shot up way up about 25% more streaming according to the website porn hub. Especially in the middle of the day at around lunchtime, presumably people stuck at home. Lana saw an uptick on her fan base too last spring. She told me she'd gained about 8,000 followers on social media and that she was getting more and more requests for private shows.

19 (43m 1s):
You know, like everybody right now is at home with their families and so you know, men will be working from their home office and they'll contact me and say, you know, hey like can we do like a five minute camp session

18 (43m 13s):
Like Luna's doing in her house? These clients are fitting in what they can when they can from their houses, many of them hoping it'll go unnoticed. So that was early in the pandemic. May every two or three months I'd check back with Lana and every time we'd catch up she sounded upbeat and I think this woman is so good at compartmentalizing, but when I called her back a couple weeks ago to check in, she sounded different and she told me she's been having a hard time keeping up her porn persona with clients.

19 (43m 49s):
It's, it's hard to stay motivated I have found, and it just like, it kind of takes a little bit of time to kind of get going and to get in, you know, I have to put on music. Like I have to sort of get in the mindset to actually create something that's good.

18 (44m 6s):
Some things are easier these days. Her kids don't need so much attention during the day. Lana's daughter is old enough to manage her own virtual learning and her son, he's seven now. He's in a small pod with other kiddos his age four days a week he's not at home. Lana even rented a small office for work where she can go spend a few hours each morning shooting by herself so she has more privacy and doesn't have to toggle back and forth all day between her kids and her secret job anymore. But the pandemic's been getting to her in some new ways.

19 (44m 38s):
There's I think a lot of little things like the gym's being closed and like I'm not taking care of my body as well as I did before the pandemic and so, you know, I feel like my body looks different now so I, you know, and that makes you not feel, you know, quite as sexy when you're like looking back at the footage later and you're like, Wow, I really don't like that angle, you know? And so I find myself sometimes just having to like bust out content because you know, not because I'm feeling it or because I think this is gonna be really great, but it's like I have to get it done.

18 (45m 15s):
Actually Anna says the hour long foot worshiping session that she'd done just before this phone call is a good example of what she's talking about. That appointment happened over text. She also sends photos

19 (45m 26s):
So I'm actually like texting with him and, and then I'm also looking for like a restaurant reservation cuz I really wanna go out to dinner this Friday for outdoor dining and I'm like texting with someone else.

18 (45m 42s):
Did you get your reservation?

19 (45m 44s):
No, because I have to find a place with heaters and a full bar and that is tricky combination right now.

18 (45m 56s):
Like lots of us Lana's worn down having less fun on the job and honestly who can blame her? But since her whole job is to get other people in the mood when Lana's not in the mood, that's a different kind of secret when she can't afford to tell.

0 (46m 19s):
Lena Masi was a producer on our show these days. She's reading a book about how to write for television Act three, bad cell service. We're told that sharing our secrets will liberate us, will feel unburdened, relieved, but sometimes keeping the secret is what sets us free. Writer Pavan. Vigo has an illness that she's kept secret.

20 (46m 48s):
My body has a secret. There are days where my body feels as though it is the secret. If one day you were to pay considerable attention, you might figure it out. My body's quick to breathlessness and slow to recover from exertion, but perhaps this is too subtle a clue if I go out drinking and neglect to take my folic acid the morning after. Notice how the whites of my eyes have yellowed slightly. This is my body leaking. Its secret. The yellow dyes. This is jaundice. A common symptom of sickle cell disease, which is the secret my body has and tries so hard to keep. Sickle cell is a blood disorder where red blood cells take on an irregular sickle shape.

20 (47m 31s):
This diminishes the level of oxygen in the body. It can be painful. The most pronounced pain comes from the un streamlined cells bumping and scraping along my vessel walls, producing an unbearable rusty ache in my bones, especially at the joints which sickle cells have trouble squeezing through and so often they log jam and cause swelling. All childhood long I was the sick girl. Notable for my string of absences. I was out for days and weeks at a time due to illness, but also for maintenance purposes, checkups, tests, transfusions. The burden of being my best friend at school was threefold.

20 (48m 11s):
One, you had to have a backup best friend for the times I wasn't there. Two, if we started an art project, I had to explain to you how I wanted it done in a very likely event, I wouldn't be there to do it myself. And three, you had to keep up with all the school gossip and catch me up on it in meticulous detail. When I returned in year nine, I auditioned for the role of a dancing girl in my secondary school's production of Westside Story. My dance teacher who was directing complimented my strong audition and followed up her praise with, If I give you a part in the show, Dear, you had a promise me that you won't get sick. I won't get sick. I told her hardly without properly considering what she was asking of me.

20 (48m 51s):
I won't get sick. I repeated it, I'm sure to reassure myself, I won't. I won't. The following week, the cast list went up and I was the only year nine dancing girls to get a speaking part. It was one line, but it was everything to me. I prayed, stepped over cracks, wished on stars, did my homework early, my chores diligently, was nice to my brothers, everything I could possibly think of to be good and stay well. I begged my body to keep the promise I'd made. And of course, two weeks before the show, I got sick. The sickest I had ever been, the sickest I have ever been. I caught pneumonia.

20 (49m 31s):
I was hospitalized for three months, missed five months of school that year. I believe my body did it to spite me. I was so angry. I arrived in my hospital bed in pain and frustration thinking I'm a girl who wants to dance and say her line. I'm stuck in this body, a place that gets sick. I never auditioned for anything at school, ever again. As I grew older, I grew a bit healthier, my body calmed down. I went two years without hospital admission, then five, then eight, and I mostly stopped speaking about sickle cell and the bad blood that moves inside me.

20 (50m 14s):
I convinced myself that discussing it would somehow jinx me into more suffering if I kept quiet about my body. My body in turn would keep quiet about its disease. I moved to the world less a sick person and more as a person with a sickness. That distinction became very important, a loophole. I never lied. I neglected to tell the truth. That's how secrets are made. My secret allows me to control how people see me. I hate to be pitied. Keeping my secret is the one thing about my body I can control. People would sometimes find out, but it was rare for me to actively tell.

20 (50m 55s):
My husband is the only person I can remember sitting down to explain. I tell my body secret only when it is necessary, when it's apparent I'm becoming sick or when it is a safety concern, like when I fly long distance because I'd heard that high altitude can trigger a crisis. Years ago, a doctor got me in the habit of taking this precautionary measure before the seatbelt light switched on. I walked to the front of the plane and hurriedly confess. The first time I did this, my head swam. It had been so long since I'd said I have sickle cell out loud to anyone. Now I accept this inuring as part of my flying ritual because it's temporary. The secret remains in the air and dissipates as soon as I land at my destination.

20 (51m 40s):
Another place I was sometimes okay talking about my sickle cell was in Avaly black spaces home church with extended family that wasn't really family. It is our disease, so it is our problem. One theory is that the gene mutation in the hemoglobin evolved to resist malaria. Most people had a cousin back home who'd suffered an aunt's friend of a friend who died from it. There was a heavy knowing in these diasporic circles. They understood the specific frustration of being in a body that had an extra thing to contend with. That jokingly quote that line from full metal jacket at me. Thank God for the sickle cell. And I would laugh in these spaces. I felt seen but also hyper visible.

20 (52m 21s):
And as I grew up, I saw out places where I could go in Cognito. I have been told all my life by doctors, teachers, family, friends, that I should tell that it's the only way I will ever feel truly known. I spent so much of my life struggling with this disease. And so of course it has shaped me the way I form relationships. How suspicious I am of joy, my wholesale resignation to pain. Why I hate being cold, telling people lets them in. But the problem is I know who I am. I'm a person who has a secret. And so who do I become? If I tell?

20 (53m 2s):
What do I lose? I have tried to be more open. I even wrote about my sickle cell for an online publication a few years ago. The positive feedback from strangers was encouraging, overwhelming, but hearing from people I knew felt embarrassing, exposing. Fortunately it wasn't that many people. I went back to passing out the tellings, keeping the information on the strictest need to know basis. And then covid happened at the beginning of it. About a year ago, I received a letter from the Department of Health and Social Care informing me that as I have a high risk condition, I'm considered extremely vulnerable. And so I must stay outta the way of Covid by staying in my house for at least 12 weeks.

20 (53m 45s):
Extremely vulnerable is the nicest thing a government organization has ever said about me. Extremely vulnerable, made me feel dainty and precious, like a rare jewel, uniquely worthy of special care until the reality setting of what it would mean to spend 12 weeks inside my house. Could I have lied for 12 weeks? Told people I was staying home because I was anxious, overly cautious, or maybe it would be easier to just tell the truth. And so for the first time in my life, I slipped into the habit of day to day, face to face, talking about my sickle cell to old friends, new colleagues, neighbors, the postman. They would come by the house, stand at the front gate. I sat them mandated two meters away on the steps and they would ask me questions.

20 (54m 29s):
I rambled at them about bone marrow stem cells, rigid red blood cells, anemia, chest crisises, increased infection risks, and how scared I was. Everybody was so nice, So understanding and listening to me. I felt compelled by their kindness to tell, but always sicker after I told I felt powerless like a child again. My first adult decision was to keep my illness a secret. I spent so much of my life hiding to give myself choices as to how I'd move through the world. And now in revealing myself, I felt trapped once after a visit where I had told someone I found myself playing a game I hadn't played since childhood.

20 (55m 13s):
Laying there still on the floor, trying to pinpoint where in my body my bad blood was moving. Imagining the evil broken cells swimming through vessels in my brain, heart, lungs, behind my eyes, across my belly, focusing my thoughts on pulverizing them. It didn't work then it doesn't work. Now, the most pervasive idea about secrets is that they encumber us. We're told that sharing all the parts of ourselves sets us free. But I have not felt any relief since the knowledge of my condition has become more public.

20 (55m 54s):
The more I tell the truth to others, the less I feel like me. I would like to return to being sick in the dark.

5 (56m 8s):
Pavin

0 (56m 8s):
Biu is a writer in London.

5 (56m 20s):
Okay,

21 (56m 23s):
I've got bipolar disorder. My life's not in order. I'm overweight. I'm always late. I've got too many things to

22 (56m 33s):
Say. And tell us from the time we're young to hide the things that we don't like about ourselves inside ourselves. Know I'm not the only one who spent so long attempting to be someone knows, Well, I'm over it.

5 (56m 55s):
I don't the world knows what my secrets are. Secrets are.

0 (57m 4s):
Our program was produced today by me, Susan Burton. The people who put our show together today include Bin Mami, Ella Baker, Dana Chis, Sean Cole, Aviva De Kornfeld, Hillary Elkins, Dian Grave, Seth Tobin, Low, Mickey Meek, Lena Mai, Stone Nelson, Catherine Rayo, Nadia Raymond, Ari Saperstein, Laura Starkey, Lily Sullivan, Christopher Sep, Matt Tierney, and Julie Whitaker. Our managing editor is Sarah Abdurahman. Our senior editor is David Kestenbaum. Our executive editor is Emmanuel Barry. Special thanks today to Nrea Andy Lee, Mark Siegler, and to all the women who trusted me with the stories of their eating disorders. The book I talked about, my memoir, it's called Empty Additional Production.

0 (57m 48s):
Help on today's rerun from Valerie Kip. Our website, this american life.org, where you can stream our archive of over 700 episodes for absolutely free. Also, don't forget about merch for your holiday shopping. Again, you can get that@thisamericanlife.org. This American Life is delivered to public radio stations by prx, the Public Radio Exchange. Thanks of course to my boss, Ira Glass, who took the week off to devote himself to his true calling Star Trek fan fiction. He finished two stories.

19 (58m 18s):
One is kind of G-rated for my promotional, and the other one is adult. For my premium members,

0 (58m 25s):
I'm Susan Burton. Join us next week for more stories of this American life.

23 (58m 41s):
Next week on the podcast of This American Life,

24 (58m 45s):
I will I good office

23 (58m 48s):
Russian soldier cause a Ukrainian hotline that Russian fighters can call to surrender. He won't be castrating us. Yes, he really doesn't know if he should trust them. Ukrainian on the hotline answers. Don't worry.

24 (59m 4s):
Stories

23 (59m 5s):
Of people daring to make the leap from one world into another. Next week on the podcast or in your local bubble radio station.