0 (0s):
Support for this American life comes from choice ology and original podcast from Charles Schwab hosted by Katie milkman, a behavioral scientist, Wharton professor, and author of how to change choice. Ology is a show about the psychology and economics behind our decisions here. True stories from Nobel laureates, authors athletes, and more about why we do the things we do listen to choice ology at schwab.com/podcast or wherever you listen. Hey everybody over here. And before we start today's program, I know that many of us who listen to podcasts are always looking for a new podcast to try. And I have news. If you are somebody like that, the news is this, our sister company cereal, which made the podcasts cereal and S town and nice white parents has a brand new show that the putting out with the New York times, and it is great.

0 (51s):
It's called the improvement association. The host is one of our longtime, this American life producers, Zoe chase. You may have heard here who started looking into the story as something she would actually report on our show, but then it just grew and grew. And we all realize this is too good and too big. And it just needs its own mini series. Zoe has done a ton of political stories, and if you've heard them on our show, you know that they are supremely entertaining. And this one is an amazing story about election fraud and accusations of election fraud, which turned out to be very powerful in themselves in one County, in North Carolina, a place that's small enough that the politics are very personal, which I have to say sometimes gives things in the story, a special intensity like it, you know, it's like one thing when somebody allegedly tells you to break election laws, but it's another, when that person is your own stepdad before president Trump was elected, Zoe did this series of stories where she dove into the world of his early supporters, including the online trolls and an early version of the proud boys in this way.

0 (1m 50s):
That at the time I really felt like opened my eyes to something important happening in the country. And this new show does the same thing, but in a very different world hearing it, I feel like I'm witnessing something important about what is happening right now. And seeing that very close up. Anyway, the show comes out Tuesday, Tuesday, April 13th. You can subscribe now. So you don't miss an episode. Here's Zoe with the trailer.

1 (2m 16s):
If you know bleeding County, North Carolina, it's probably for its high profile election related corruption.

2 (2m 23s):
So you were filling in the ovals and voting for other people, right? You were voting other people's battles. I assume you knew that it was not legal to vote other people's balances. Right? I understand you, but you were paid to do something that you knew was wrong

1 (2m 46s):
In 2018, Republican Mark Harris beat out his democratic opponent for a congressional seat only to have the victory reversed after his campaign was investigated for absentee ballot fraud. Democrats like to talk about this scandal because it's Republicans who did it. Republicans like to talk about this scandal without talking about who did it, because it proves election fraud is real. It can happen. I like talking about this scandal because there's a story behind it that most people don't know. And it helps explain how we got here, here being how we United States have become nearly undone by endless accusations of fraud and stolen elections down in bleeding County, where the congressional scandal took place.

1 (3m 31s):
There are many people who believe the journalists, the authorities, all of us, we got this whole story wrong. They see the real election. Cheaters are still at work in the County, bullying, tampering, stealing votes. The story behind this one election. The only time in recent history that a congressional election was thrown out for fraud is actually the story of a series of elections of election fights fueled by personal grudges and petty beeps and family history and history history. And it's about the oldest fight of all the fight for the black vote. This is strictly a pay. You know that right?

1 (4m 12s):
It was almost like they realize that we weren't dumb, like, okay, they smart may be too smart for their own good from serial productions. I'm Zoe chase coming in April. It's the improvement association, a true story about election fraud. Get it wherever you get your podcasts.

3 (4m 54s):
Mitchell was in his twenties when he learned that his mom was getting on a bus or a train twice a week and going to a place that would stick a needle in her arm and take a pint of blood and they would keep the plasma and give her back everything else and pay her 25 for $35 per pint. I get you do this twice a week because you needed the cash. Of course, that is not the kind of thing anybody wants to hear their mom has to do. And it took them a few years, but as soon as he had the money to step in and help her out, but she told his mom don't do it anymore. You know, just give you the money. And she turned him down,

4 (5m 28s):
You know, like, don't worry about it. I don't need you to jump in. I'll take care of myself. Even if it's, you know, hubris, at least I'm not asking you for anything. She loves that saying, what does she say we do for today? What we can't do for forever? What's that mean? It's, it's a, I guess, a personal proverb that she uses to trick herself into enduring a crucible. You know, I can do it today.

0 (5m 60s):
What made this especially hard was Mitchell was in New York. His mom was on the other side of the country in Oregon, where he grew up and it would some times, and her phone would be turned off and he would have to reach out to his brothers to find out what was happening. And if she needed help and then organize the help. But talking to her about the blood donations and they had a bunch of conversations about it, led Mitchell to learn everything about it, about the multi-billion dollar companies that buy plasma from people like his mom, about the black doctor, Charles drew invented a way of separating plasma from blood and set up some of America's first blood banks at the start of world war II.

4 (6m 36s):
And because we were still in Jim Crow, they would not let black people donate blood. Like how symbolic is that? That the black guy that invents this process that helps these hundreds of thousands. If not millions of people can't even donate blood

0 (6m 56s):
Mitchell is a writer. He's been on our show before at Mitchell Jackson. He's written about these conversations with his mom and the places that they let him to. Like for instance, one day he got to talking about blood and patriotism. His mom's taking patriotism, by the way, is there anybody who says my country right or wrong? No matter what ugly thing happens here is basically just like a mom who sees the best in her kid, no matter what terrible thing they do. Anyway, during that conversation, she surprised Mitchell by describing her blood donations as the most patriotic thing she does, even though she does it,

4 (7m 28s):
The money. I guess if we, if we kind of think about patriotism in its best light, it's looking out for the next person. She was just thinking I'm giving a part of me, which is sacred to benefit someone else. But I think it's also too, like my mother is one of those people, like she really is the mother who will do anything. Like she's the mother that has like a hundred dollars in her account to last her the month. And my brother's like, doesn't have food in his refrigerator and she gives him 80. Like, and this is not like a hypothetical, this is a literal. So this is another way of giving

0 (8m 15s):
In a Mitchell. As you talk about it, I just feel so struck with like all the things that are bundled up in like those little pints of plasma. Like when you tell this story, it's simultaneously like your feeling of protectiveness about her and how she's doing, and is she doing okay and her wanting to be independent of you? And you're also like, feeling like she's taking care of other people and also like getting money she needs. It's like, Oh, and also it's blood. It's a physical thing. Like all compressed in this a little plastic bag, you know?

4 (8m 46s):
Yeah. It's like both symbolic and literal.

0 (8m 53s):
I think it's always that way. Maybe because blood is so fundamental, keeping us alive. It's something we all share. Part of our insights that we all have actually seen with the urgent cover of a stop sign. It takes on so many other meanings in ways that other things in our body do not there's blood ties and blood feuds and bad blood between people and the blood of the lamb and Jesus, his blood turned to wine. There's the idea of people who are cold-blooded and people who are hot blooded. And he now discredited notion of how much of this group's blood or that group's blood. You have running through your veins today on our program, we dive and do all kinds of stories about blood picture, please, if you will, right now, you know those elevator doors from the shining, opening up a sea of blood pouring out right here on the radio, but don't touch that dial.

0 (9m 37s):
There is so much to say from WBZ Chicago, it's this American life I'm IRA, glass bloody stay with us. Started from full bottom. Now we're here. So we begin today with a story about literal, actual blood and this joke, and by the way, hello, to all the seven year olds in our audience, why did the nurse bring a red pen to work in case she had to draw blood? Okay. Anyway, somebody wrote into our show last summer saying they had a story to tell about being a phlebotomist, the person whose job it is to draw blood for lab tests or donations using by the way, a needle, not a red pen.

0 (10m 19s):
Her name is Adele Levine. And she said she was the worst phlebotomist in her whole hospital. One of our producers, Diane, we found that intriguing naturally called her up and it turns out she is a perfectly fine phlebotomist, but she did get thrown into the job from a different job without a lot of preparation. And some of the most extreme circumstances imaginable a total fish out of water. Here's Diane.

6 (10m 44s):
I liked talking to a Dell about drawing blood because as a newbie, she saw everything with beginner's eyes. She was so into it. She talked about veins in this way that I'd never heard before. Just ardently.

5 (10m 56s):
Yeah. Test the vein. It should feel bouncy.

6 (10m 60s):
Like you test it by touching it with your feet,

5 (11m 2s):
Touch it, and it should sort of bounce. So now I'm always bouncing veins, you know, my own veins when I want to try do it on the back of your hand. Okay? Yeah. The veins in the, in the front of the, the rest are not for us. How come that'll know? I didn't go to phlebotomy school. They just told me that's not for us.

6 (11m 26s):
Adele didn't ever study phlebotomy because she's actually a physical therapist. She had no plans to ever be sticking people with needles and drawing their blood. But when COVID hit last spring, the hospital, she worked at canceled all of her physical therapy appointments and started assigning people to new jobs.

5 (11m 43s):
I really wanted to work on the loading dock. That was like, what I really wanted to do. Like I wanted to drive one of those big things around, you know, like lift pallets of supplies,

6 (11m 56s):
But they didn't need her there. She ended up in phlebotomy. One of the departments of the hospital who's worked in it slowed down and became a total newbie drafted to draw blood for the very first time in the middle of a pandemic, by the way, she didn't want us to name her hospital because they didn't give her permission to do an interview. Adele spent her first few days following different phlebotomist's around the hospital, watching closely as they worked. She was so impressed to watch as they performed even the most basic tasks with incredible elegance,

5 (12m 28s):
Just one phlebotomist. I just was always mesmerized by the way, she like put tape on the back of her hand. Like so precisely voice, exactly like the exact size piece of tape. Another one, she would hold the butterfly needle, not by the wings, but actually by the little barrel, which is kind of a harder way to hold it. But she was just real gentle, just the way they could draw blood from like the craziest places. I mean, cause hospital patients, you know, they're sick, they're an organ failure they're really swollen or their veins are shot. And these phlebotomist are doing crazy stuff.

5 (13m 11s):
Like just skimming the surface of someone's forearm and just getting this tiny little spider vein, you know, or they're getting blood from the back of someone's thumb, knuckle. I think they're total artists

6 (13m 26s):
Then suddenly it was her turn to try a Del flipped around her hospital bed. So no one could see she was a physical therapist then went and did her first sticks. That's phlebotomist lingo for blood draws in the maternity ward, unhealthy young mothers who had big, easily visible veins. She made a lot of rookie mistakes.

5 (13m 45s):
I would keep the tube on until it completely filled with blood. And then when I would retract the needle, the blood that was left over in that tubing would spill all over the bed and make a big mess. And then everyone was always yelling at me to, to retract the needle, retract it, do it, do it. It's ready. It's ready. I'm like, but it's only halfway. So I'll just do it. I'm like, Hey, you know,

6 (14m 7s):
After about two weeks of this sort of haphazard seat of the pants training, her manager decided she was ready to go in alone on her first day of working solo. Adele walked in and saw that her assignment was in the ICU, which at that point in April was full of COVID patients.

5 (14m 25s):
I got panicked completely panicked. You know, I mean, I, I was so nervous just, I mean, even just going into a Covid room just would fill me with fear terror.

6 (14m 38s):
It was an incredibly challenging assignment. ICU patients were among the sickest in the hospital, often with multiple IVs and swollen limbs. And phlebotomy was only called in after the nurses. There had already tried twice to get blood, but couldn't on top of that. All the COVID stuff, the PPE that made it hard to move and see, not being able to bring a full card of supplies in the pressure to work quickly and minimize exposure. Adele was terrified and overwhelmed, but she did her best to figure out her own little routine.

5 (15m 9s):
In the beginning. I always used to talk to the patients, even though I would say, you know, I'm like, good morning, good morning. You know, this is a Dell and from phlebotomy, I'm here to draw some blood, you know, but they're sedated or I tell them, you know, today's Tuesday, it's April 20th. It's a nice day outside. You know, tell them what's on the news or what was going on. And I always tell them that they look great that they were, that they were getting better. I could tell how often was that actually true. Hardly ever. But I just felt like, you know, like I heard that people, when they're sedated, they can still kind of hear you.

5 (15m 52s):
So I always felt like I should say something uplifting. I mean, if you want a cheerleading section, I mean physical therapies where it's at, I mean, we are so optimistic as a group, you know,

6 (16m 4s):
But wasn't doing great at actually getting the blood though. She was missing something like half of her sticks. She'd get all suited up and prepared to go in their room, try and try and try for 10 or 15 minutes fail. Then she'd have to go downstairs and Mark on the whiteboard, the patients that she'd missed. So a more experienced phlebotomist could be sent up to try again. She felt like a disappointment, bumbling things up in one of the most serious and urgent parts of the hospital.

5 (16m 31s):
When they would send me to do blood cultures, I would almost always budget

6 (16m 38s):
A blood culture is a test for an infection in the blood.

5 (16m 41s):
My first blood culture that I got called to do when I got to the room, the patient was in a full code and they were all in there doing like CPR and chest compressions. They were shocking him. I like flipped out. I was like, Oh my God. I was about to leave. And they're like, no, no. They're like, you stay there. Like you stay. Cause if he lives, we need those blood cultures. So I stood there. I was waiting and standing next to me, you know, and we're like totally dressed up. And all this care was one of the hospital, chaplains were standing next to each other and she was there because if the patient died, she would need to go in and do last rights.

5 (17m 25s):
And I got so completely wigged out by that. Like I started feeling like we were like the, the angel and the devil, you know, just standing side by side. And like the patient lived in like the hospital chaplain just like flew out of there, you know? And then I had to go in. I was like, so rattled by like what happened? And then I had to do these blood cultures. It's just, yeah, I didn't get it. I didn't get it.

6 (17m 53s):
Remember Delta physical therapist, nobody was dying in front of her at her old job. The chaplain never hovered nearby. This was a totally different game. Adele's first week in the ICU was so stressful that she thought about quitting, but she didn't. She kept going. She watched videos about phlebotomy in her free time practice, getting her sticks over and over lining up her tubes. In the order of the draws, folding guys into quarters with one hand readjusting the needle to keep the blood flowing. She started to be able to see vein. She couldn't before to draw blood from more challenging places.

5 (18m 30s):
The first time I got blood off this guy's thumb knuckle. Yeah. I was just couldn't believe it. I was so proud of myself or like from a really skinny little vein. And I'm just trying to, I just knew I could, if I could just get a centimeter of blood into the tube, that would be good enough for the lab,

6 (18m 47s):
But even being able to draw their blood well, didn't change her patient's outcomes. Lots died. It got to her. She says she stopped looking at their faces when she went in the room, stop chatting as much with them too. And as she was leaving, instead of telling him, they looked good and she could tell they were doing better. Like she used to, she just told them goodbye. Adele told me that dropping into this tunnel vision mode, just going straight for the vein, not looking around it actually made her better at drawing blood, more gentle In the middle of the summer.

6 (19m 27s):
Three months after Adele began drawing blood, the first wave finally started to recede at her hospital. And she got a text from her physical therapy boss telling her it was time to come back.

5 (19m 39s):
I was really furious. I didn't want to go back. I can't really a bit of yeah. Caused like a bit of like, I guess they couldn't believe it. Like I said, I wasn't going to come back.

6 (19m 50s):
I was surprised to hear this given how she'd felt completely inadequate for so long when she was there. But it felt like whiplash to her. She'd been thrown from her old job into this one. Finally felt like she knew what she was doing. She wasn't prepared to be yanked back out just as quickly. It's been eight months now, since Adele switched back to physical therapy, she still notices people's veins, especially the ones on the backs of their fingers. Those ones she told me when someone's really sick, those ones will stay bouncy. They're the last to go.

3 (20m 29s):
Diane will is one of the producers of our show act two blood ties. So it turned out in this blood episode, two blood relatives and the importance of family, or maybe this story is about the unimportance family. And the meaninglessness of blood ties at the center of this story are 30 postcards. And one of our producers, David customer,

7 (20m 56s):
I want to start by saying, I am one of those people who has never cared at all about family trees, who is related to whom genealogy, stuff like that. The only family that felt important growing up with the people I saw every day, my parents and sister, and then kind of one circle out grandparents, cousins, the relatives we'd visit with some regularity beyond that. They just seem like people, I didn't know. And I think this is the scientist in me. I've always felt like the whole idea of being related by blood. Who cares if they have some DNA that I have, it all just seemed kind of dumb. This was a problem. When someone would ask me when my family came to the United States, my great-grandparents, I think from Austria or Poland, some from Russia at various points, it's felt like a thing I should know.

7 (21m 42s):
Just so I could not look like an idiot. When that question came up. So I'd asked my parents who'd tell me, but there weren't a lot of details. No one felt real in it. And whatever my parents would tell me, I'd promptly. Forget. Then a couple of summers ago we were visiting my aunt and uncle. My kids are running around like lunatics. I was sitting on the couch and my aunt handed me this stack of papers. They were photocopies of 30 postcards. A distant family member had come across them and they were beautiful written in Yiddish in the Hebrew alphabet. In this meticulous handwriting, I could read who they were addressed to. That was an English, hairy Kestenbaum, three 20 cherry street, New York, America cherry street is a street I've walked by for sure.

7 (22m 28s):
It runs under the Manhattan bridge. The postcards were from his father. Shmuel Mendel Kestin bell who was living in a town in Austria, hungry at the foot of a small mountain. The date on the first postcard, 1904. Well, it was my great, great grandfather's brother. There were translations alongside the postcards. A relative had found someone who could read the old Yiddish. So I sat there on the couch and started to read again, this wasn't my thing. I honestly didn't expect to get through them, but amazingly these 30 postcards, they happen to tell a little story with a beginning and an end.

7 (23m 8s):
You could glimpse a piece of a life for them of a man living a hundred years ago, who had my last name. And I know I just said that shouldn't matter. Maybe I'm wrong. They gave me a feeling. I was not expecting to have the postcards or only one side of the conversation. Well writing to his son. But it's on Harry, who is 24 at the beginning. Clearly wrote back. You can tell because Chanel writes things like you forgot to put a stamp on your last letter. And I had to pay a fine signed your father. Shmuel I love that line because I'm not proud of this, but it reminds me of me. And also it warms my heart to read a guilt trip on a hundred year old postcard sent across an ocean.

7 (23m 50s):
You can only write like that to someone whose family blood gives you permission to make certain demands, to be yourself in ways that maybe you shouldn't quote. You want me to send you a talus to America. A Telus is a prayer shawl. This is quite difficult. Postage is quite expensive. And did you not buy a talus for your wedding? It seems possible. They wrote back and forth constantly. Quote. I'm surprised that you have not received my letter. Why don't you write about your business? Mine is completely in ruined and my income is very bad. Here's what we know about Jamal. When he was writing these, he was divorced and his two kids. He hadn't seen me years Perry because he was in America at three 20 cherry street.

7 (24m 34s):
His daughter was closer to home in Europe, but we'd never read him back. She really does not behave like a child of mine. Schmoe writes for three years, I have received from her only printed, happy new year's cards. When she came to me to invite me to her wedding, I gave her all the money she asked for and went to the wedding. She has not once written about her situation since childhood, as you well know, she has become a stranger. To me. Chanel is on a kind of mission in these postcards. It seems dismayed by how scattered the family has become. And he wants to hold everyone together. Somehow he writes about being lonely. Having no one to have a heart-to-heart talk with quote, please let me know. If you intend to return here with your family or do you want to take a pleasure trip?

7 (25m 18s):
I would be very pleased, but the question is, if you can do this without any trouble. And the map of our family is small is pretty far removed. He's like Pluto out there on a distant orbit, but I felt some tug on me. He asks after my great, great grandfather is living nearby in Newark, New Jersey quote. Please write to me about my brother. How is he? He doesn't write to me at all. How are his children? Are they? Well, I was struck by how consistently miserable. He seems miserable, but also like he hasn't given up hope. He earns for the family, wants to be with them again.

7 (25m 58s):
I wondered if it would happen. When Harry's first son gets a little older Chanel rates, maybe it would be possible for you to send him to me. And I could fulfill the commandment and teach our children and your son's children. As my son's sons are as my own. Your father, small, there are all these grandkids being born that he wants to see when Harry has a daughter named her after his grandmother, she writes my dear son. You've done very well. You have added the name of my dear mother. I have great joy from this, but there's also this heartbreaking one quote. At the end of your letter, you didn't send greetings from your son Yitzhak, which worries me very much.

7 (26m 41s):
Please disclose the truth to me. Maybe we only hear good tidings. It's kid died of pneumonia at age one. There's one postcard rush. Well, it seems truly joyful. Like you finally had a really good day or something. September 12th, 1907. The entire postcard is a blessing that he composed himself in Hebrew. The translator was really struck by the poetry of it. May the raise of your good fortune shine on your head. And may you always be a fulfilled person, love and peace in your home. All of you healthy and complete your tents free of fear.

7 (27m 25s):
Blessings nested in your house and success shedding its light around you. But making my way through the stack of postcards. One thing after another seems to go wrong, he eventually does make contact with his daughter. Harry's sister and visits her, but he still seems worried. I hope there will be peace. For some time. He writes about a fire that cost him a lot of money. A dealer he sends cotton wool to goes bankrupt. Quote, business is very bad. As credit has been stopped, and many people have gone bankrupt. Thank God. The fear of war has passed. May God bring us better times that postcard was from May 27th, 1913.

7 (28m 8s):
And when I read it, I was like, wait, what do you mean? The fear of war has passed isn't world war one about to happen. Here's the postcard from a little later, the stamp had been removed. So some words are missing, but this part was intact. Quote, the Russians plundered. We went on foot. Therefore we took nothing with us. We were like a herd. We closed the house and left everything. We left all our property. Everything was plundered and the house was destroyed. May God give us strength and harden? Our body is this. Our fate. Instead of sleeping in our bed, we slept on the ground. That postcard was sent from a town, 60 miles from his home.

7 (28m 51s):
It was a big gap after this. The next postcodes are from years later, he's back in the town where he started quote, I received the package you sent it contained two pairs of trousers, two pairs of underpants for undershirts, one skullcap, one napkin. I can't know if anything is missing since I don't have a list of its contents. The Lord will reward you for the mitzvah of honoring our father and your reward will be great. This is postcard number 27 of 30. There weren't many left. Shmuel writes that he had heard that Harry might make a trip back home, quote. This would give me much joy. He writes. And also do you have papers for my journey to America?

7 (29m 35s):
I was excited that they might all get together, but postcard 29, doesn't mention any travel plans. Quote, it's been three months since I've written you I'm desperate not to have received an answer. This is very unusual. Please write immediately. The last postcard number 30 is about a prayer Shaw and that's it. Small mental Keston Baume died sometime after that, he was probably 69 or 70 years old reading along. I was somehow stupidly expecting a happy ending. And I don't think there was one for him. It doesn't seem like small ever got to see a son again. After he left at the age of 20, I got to meet Harry's kids, his grandchildren.

7 (30m 18s):
And just that idea that you could spend so much of your life waiting for a thing to happen. And then one day you don't even know it's coming, but it's your last day. And it never does. I do feel some connection to small. I'm not sure I really understand it. You could say it's because we're related by blood. It certainly is a strange experience to read your own last name on a a hundred year old postcard. It sticks with you. Well, Kestenbaum, I keep thinking about the postcards in them. Schmall never writes about the past. He's always asking about the people who will come after him, his son, his daughter, their kids.

7 (31m 1s):
He cared about the future. I do too. I care more going forward. Then backward, there is a happy ending dish Moyle story. It just came much later. It's me and all the family and the giant tree that grew around him. David <inaudible> is our show. Senior editor coming up. One of the greatest deployments of fake blood in the history of fake blood. Also fixing a human blood pump and a fibroid speaks in English. That's in a minute, I'm just Gaga Babak radio.

7 (31m 43s):
When our program continues

5 (31m 46s):
Support for this American life comes from Squarespace. If you have a story to tell whether it's about starting a business or sharing photos, Squarespace gives you an all-in-one platform to bring these stories to life with modern templates and 24 hour support, you can easily create a professional website or online store, head to squarespace.com/american for a free trial. When you're ready to launch use code American for 10% off your first purchase of a website or domain support for this American life comes from wonderings new mini series spy affair. After Maria Boutino was arrested in 2018, she was paraded as a Russian spy who allegedly used sex and lies to influence Republican and NRA officials.

5 (32m 31s):
But Maria claimed she was just an activist and businesswoman. Was she a Russian foreign agent or an innocent victim who became Russia's scapegoat against

3 (32m 40s):
Listen to spy affair on Apple podcasts and decide for yourself this American life from our glass today's program, bloody feelings, stories about blood in all its liquidy meanings. What is metaphor? What is the actual stuff? Moving through our veins, we have arrived at act three of our show at three stage, right? So this is condition it's called vasovagal syncope. It's basically fainting in reaction to certain stimuli. It's triggered by all kinds of things, exposure to heat, stress, and the sight of blood. And it turns out that the blood, it doesn't even need to be real blood to get that response. One of our producers, BIM at a wound me remembers one bloody Shakespeare production that at its height had scores of people fainting night after night, here's Ben

8 (33m 29s):
Back in 2006, I was a year out of university trying very hard to be a writer and working at a bookshop in central London. I was also almost always broke. So broken fact that I don't think I could afford more than one visit to see a West end show the entire year. What I did do a lot of though was read theater reviews 2006 was the year of Michael sheen and Frank Langella and frost Nixon. It was the year Avenue Q came to the West end the year of Wicked's London debut. And all I could do was dream of going to see them. So naturally the review page was the first place I read about a play that was getting rave reviews. There was apparently so grizzly, so bloody audience members were fainting.

8 (34m 13s):
The play was one of Shakespeare's least loved plays, Titus Andronicus, three hours of muscular bloody theater that as one audience member quoted in the paper put it had people dropping like flies. I was thrilled at the idea of theater being powerful enough to fail, even study London, theater goers. I was jealous. I wanted to go. I wanted to see if I could withstand it in the 15 years. Since I've often thought about the source of that production's power about the blood.

9 (34m 44s):
I mean, at one point we had 43 people, one show, 43 people fainted 43. That was our max.

8 (34m 51s):
All these years later, I was thrilled to talk to the director, Lucy Bailey, because I wanted to understand how she'd done something so extraordinary.

9 (34m 59s):
Once I came into the auditorium and the usher said all the school girls came and they fainted and they're all in this box, we put them all up there. So I looked at the room and all these sort of gray pale guys, all sitting there having been fainted. It was being taken out. I used to say to the ushers, when I came in to see the shelter and how many people today,

8 (35m 25s):
Just to be clear, no one fell and hit their head or got seriously injured. They were simply overwhelmed. Leslie just hadn't foreseen the fainting to give you a picture. The globe is an open air theater and mostly faithful recreation of Shakespeare's original. We're just under half of its audience. Standing close to the action on the stage. And the globe is used to Fender's combination of standing and the sun probably during Titus, when a person fainted, the ushers would wind through the crowd with an unfolded wheelchair and then take them out of the arena. Later in the run, there was a St John's ambulance parked nearby. It's not surprising the blood in context and in quantity is inescapable and it's supposed to be Titus.

8 (36m 10s):
Andronicus is one of Shakespeare's earliest plays, and there's a lot of young man's swagger mixed in with the poetry of the writing set in ancient room. The play was written to speak to some of the fascinations of the Elizabethan era. It's about war and revenge and an over the top grief that clouds good sense and moderation innocence gets lien. Bruits revel in their savagery. Blood is shed in really horrible ways. Ritual sacrifice, slit throats, mutilations, sexual assault, plus a memorable cannibalistic pie. It's a play that's drenched in blood, and it often gets written off as a flurry of unsubstantial bloodlettings because of that. But Lucy knew the blood mattered to the play.

8 (36m 52s):
One of the first things she had to figure out was how to make the blood look real in an ironic twist to make the blood look like the real thing they had to fake it.

9 (37m 1s):
If you see a lot of stage blood, it's it often doesn't feel very real, even if it's quite accurate, the color of blood, but blood is quite bright. And somehow that bright blood in, in theater terms makes you go, Oh, yay. Yeah, that's just, that's just theater blood. We sort of looked at how we would make it unreal in order to make it more real. In other words, we darkened the blood.

8 (37m 22s):
Lucy also had to figure out how to make the blood move. So it would deliver the most impact. So she turned to another expert, the fight director.

9 (37m 30s):
You talk to him about, if you're wounded in this way, how does the blood behave does? Where does the blood come? Why is it coming out of the corner of the mouth? Why is it coming from the nose? What's, what's the journey of the blood

8 (37m 42s):
Camera, who the audience love to hate? There's a very careful spurt of blood. When she gets a giant fork in the guts. When Titus loses a hand, there was more than one source of blood, a spurt from a syringe, and then a slower ooze out of his arm to make the intense experience, more immersive Lucy and her designer, bill Dudley focused on the space itself. They wanted to make it feel oppressive, make the audience participate in the bloodsport. They achieved this by giving the globe a temporary velarium roof, which reduced the sunlight and created shadows. And then they filled the space with incense. They move some of the action off the stage and into the crowd to create a sort of theater of chance.

8 (38m 24s):
The idea was to make it feel like a temple of death. They have to strike a delicate balance, too little blood in atmosphere, and you don't bring the audience along too much. And it feels like a parody as

9 (38m 36s):
Like a huge contract. Isn't it between the audience and the play and the players that the audience given any chance want to believe. So, as long as you do everything to suspend the disbelief, then you, you, you, you keep that contract. But as soon as you break that contract and do something that shows them the mechanics, or overacts overplays your cards over exit too much blood or under exit with too little blood at the moment where they're going, sorry, I don't believe that.

8 (39m 8s):
And one of the places they decided to underplay happens in the very first bloodletting in the play when Titus sacrifices of us.

9 (39m 16s):
Yeah, it happened very quickly when, how we did it and it was so fast. And then they saw that, that the blood, and then, then we're putting him and they don't have time to dwell. So we did a very deliberate thing. We really were shocking with it.

8 (39m 30s):
The audience sees a flash of red and then he's gone almost immediately. Maybe the blood made them faint, but it wasn't just the fact of it that caused them to fall. It was what was happening between the people on stage, the feelings they were experiencing. One of the most shattering moments in the play comes off to Levenia attacked and mutilated is brought to her father and unwrapped the dark viscous blood seeps through the bandages at her stumps and pause slowly from her mouth. Even Titus a war heart in general has done his own share of killing is reduced in that moment to an anguished and helpless,

9 (40m 9s):
His precious daughters still bleeds. And he can't stop that bleeding to have your life's blood plead your, your King, your, the blood that is your blood, and to see it bleeding and to see, to understand how those wounds were made is, is pushes the brain to a point of madness, as tight as him.

8 (40m 32s):
It says in that scene, it was my DHEA. And he, that wounded her have hurt me more than had he killed me dead.

9 (40m 41s):
That's a girl is still alive, but bleeding and, and causes so much internal bleeding to her father, both in the heart and the brain. So in a way, suffers a kind of brain bleed.

8 (40m 55s):
The entire play is tied together by that ribbon of grief, parents lose children, brothers turn on each other. Innocent bystanders are collateral damage. And all the blood is in the service of that raw feeling. The language is hysterical and violent, and it goes on for five long acts. The audience gets pulled into the hysteria because they have little choice By the halfway point in act three they're so far gone, that they drop at the idea of violence.

9 (41m 27s):
We used to have people fainting on a word. So when Erin came and said that he wanted one of them to chop off their hand, you can almost guarantee that somebody would faint. When he said chop,

8 (41m 38s):
When Aaron says the word here, there's no actual chopping happening. He's just saying it, but it was enough.

9 (41m 45s):
You could see the audience sort of gird themselves. And then he'd say chop and somebody would go.

8 (41m 50s):
One of the things I was curious to talk to Lucy about was how it felt to be the architect of all this feeling. What was it like to do this to an audience again? And again,

9 (42m 2s):
Have to be honest, it was completely thrilling. You know, we, we had not expected this response audits tend not to be vocal. So this kind of fainting was a sort of sign of audience involvement. I think, I think the whole effect of see the astonishing effect it had on people to the extent that people were sick. They fainted that even urinated they lost control of the whole body was to do with this cumulative feeling combination of things, not just one thing. It was such a affirmation that something about the player was working

8 (42m 36s):
Eight years after that first production in 2014, Lucy revived, Titus Andronicus at the globe. It was a different cost. And once again, audiences flux to see this difficult bloody play this time though,

9 (42m 50s):
The audience didn't faint as much. I mean, they really didn't. And yet everything we did was I think palpably the same, if not better. And I think that was because people came psychologically prepared. So it was very much harder to get that contract going that you're so involved in this that you're going to faint.

8 (43m 12s):
Modern theater is mostly acquired affair, polite applause, gentle chuckles. Usually when people leave a play in the middle of a performance is because it's bad. They're not feeling well. They're supposed to be feeling with Titus. They were checking out because they were feeling too much

3 (43m 38s):
Matter with me is one of the producers of our show at four there's no us in uterus. Oh wait. So about 30 million Americans have fibroids. And if you don't know what this is, fibroids are these muscular tumors that grow on or in the uterus, we don't know what causes them or why they affect people of color at higher rates, especially black people. In fact, we know so little about them, that vice president, Kamala Harris introduced the uterine fibroid research and education act. I saw guests back when she was still Senator almost always fibroids are benign. Like they don't turn into cancer, but they still cause problems, pain, discomfort.

3 (44m 20s):
And then there's the blood, which of course is what our program is about today. Fibroids can make periods heavier or longer or more erratic. Doctors can be dismissive. Surgery is and carries risks. And even after surgery, fibroids can come back. New ones in a Patek, went back and forth about getting surgery. Her fibroid didn't bother her at first, but over time it grew bigger and cause more and more discomfort. And she began to think about her fibroid like careless partner, making her life miserable. She even imagined confronting the fibroid and you know, the relative safety of a therapist's office with the question, should we stay together? She made this into a one act, play starting three characters, woman, fibroid and therapist.

3 (45m 4s):
And we present now the world premiere of her play.

1 (45m 8s):
Well then let's get started. Tell me why you're here today. Like I had a choice. She dragged me here. Don't be an ass please. I'm a fibroid. Talk to her. Okay. We only ever do what you want to do. You dragged me here. Well, I'm just trying to figure out whether we should be together anymore. You told me I could stay with you. Hold you. You could stay with me. You never even asked. I want you both to try making I statements.

1 (45m 49s):
I was told that I could stay with wait. Can I not say you at all? If I'm making a nice day, man, you're doing fine. What'd you like to respond? I mean, at first it wasn't so bad. I barely noticed you to be honest. So I didn't really mind that you were around then your pile of stuff just kept getting bigger and bigger. I just, I felt steamrolled. And now you act like you own the place. Like I own the place. I have one small room where I keep my things. One bloody room, everything. I eat everything. I breathe. It's it's all yours, all you.

1 (46m 33s):
And I certainly don't appreciate you relitigating the past. What do you mean re litigating the past? I mean, I have already apologized for this. I'm sorry I moved in without your explicit permission. You never said it was bothering you. So I just assumed it was okay, but I can't keep apologizing over and over for something. I can't undo. I just, I did say it was bothering me. You just didn't listen. And I'm not asking you to apologize over and over. I mean, I'm pretty easy going. I don't like making a big deal out of stuff.

1 (47m 16s):
I'm 35 years old. Isn't this kind of what being a grownup is all about. When things don't go my way, I suck it up, you know, roll with the punches. And honestly I could still live my life. Remind me what brings you here today? Well, I mean, I'm fed up. You take up more space every day. You damaged my property. You're totally oblivious to how your actions affect anyone. But you, you know what? Fine. Try and kick me out then and luck. I wasn't going to bring this up. But someone had, I thought you wanted kids, surgeries, serious business.

1 (47m 58s):
You know what? If it doesn't work, there's a chance you could lose your uterus. There's a chance you could never have a baby. There's a chance you could die putting that out there. A slim chance. And thanks stuff happens. Just saying, I don't know if I want kids, but if I do, I think having them without you would be a better option. Have you gotten yourself checked out? Well, I've talked to some specialists, but they mostly just told me not to worry that you know, this situations harmless, the yet experts agree. You're making a big deal over nothing.

1 (48m 38s):
It's not nothing. It's like, I used to be fine. Now I'm the compressed anemic version of myself because I'm always thinking about you. I'm always planning around you never sure. When you're going to open the flood Gates, the blatant Gates. That's not funny. There will be blood. Let's take a deep breath. I want you to look at each other. Just work with me here. One at a time. Is there something one of you wants to say that you haven't yet said yeah, what we have, it's not so bad now.

1 (49m 19s):
Relationships, perfect shirt. I have some unpleasant little blowups every month, but you know what else is unpleasant every month, paying rent, doing laundries unpleasant, not once a week doing dishes every day, unpleasant, but that's life. Baby could be worse and very well may be worse without me, as they say, it's the fibroids, you know, do you really want to be 35 and alone? Okay. No, I think I've been lying to myself and pretending that everything's okay. And I know you say it could be worse, but it could be better.

1 (50m 4s):
That's why I want you out and kicking you out, but it can't possibly be worth the risk. Well, I don't know what else to tell you. I just, I need to try and you miss a hundred percent of the shots that you don't say when you do that

3 (50m 28s):
Makes the heart grow fonder. Jesus, you don't know what life will be like without me. Oh my God. I'm going to wear white pants again. <inaudible> the woman who's played by. Sophina SEDU the fibroid by Kate Arrington and therapist by Jenna Friedman casting up from Harrison Nesbitt in a Patek, wrote this play in part at the third coast radio residency at Ragsdale. And by the way, in real life decided to have her fibroid removed.

3 (51m 9s):
She's doing fine. Five unbreak my heart. So for our last story about blood, today, we go right to the source, the machine that keeps blood pumping and flowing inside of us and to somebody whose job it is to make sure that that machine works well. Producer, Sean Cole talked to this man and also watched him work a warning. If you are squeamish about people's insides. This story has a lot of that.

10 (51m 37s):
My favorite fun fact about blood is that it has a protein in it. That's also found in eggs albumin, something about that just strikes me as poetic the complex machine of the human body and a thing that eats for breakfast, sharing the same ingredient. I learned about this fact from a heart surgeon, Dr. John <inaudible> or Dr. E about five years ago, I drove up to Yale new Haven hospital and talked with him about this one technique. He employs called deep hypothermic circulatory arrest, AKA the deep freeze. Often he has to do such radical plumbing work on the heart and its arteries that his team cools the patient's body down to 64 degrees Fahrenheit, and then warms them back up again.

10 (52m 17s):
Afterwards, he compares it in one way to making egg lemon soup. You don't want the egg to curdle.

11 (52m 24s):
And it curdles when the cook is in a hurry, it has to simmer at a very low level in order not to curdle well that's because of the albumin and the egg and the bloodstream is full of albumin. So that if we warm too fast will basically get scrambled eggs in the bloodstream. So gross that's catastrophic. So warming takes one hour. We have to warm very slowly. As long as our heating bath is no more than 10 degrees warmer than the blood, the blood won't curdle. We won't get scrambled eggs.

10 (53m 0s):
Doctor is an expert on this deep freeze method he's been described as one of the best doctors in the country, a giant of cardiothoracic surgery. When we met in 2015, he'd been at Yale for more than 30 years and done about 7,000 open heart operations. At that point, including maybe 300 transplants, he dramatically lengthened the lives of the jazz musician, Dave Brubeck, and the writer, Robert Ludlum for a long time, he did one major operation and then maybe one smaller procedure, almost every weekday.

12 (53m 28s):
Yeah.

10 (53m 33s):
You offered to let me watch him perform the deep freeze to watch him take a patient and literally suspend their animation. That's what cooling them down does they're not dead, but they show no signs of life anymore so that he could reach into their body disconnect a crucial organ and fix it with his hands. And it's like, he's a master illusionist fooling death with this high stakes version of misdirection. I was like, yeah, yeah, I'm in,

11 (53m 59s):
I was thinking that the, the sound of opening the breastbone might, might be interesting for you.

10 (54m 7s):
The procedure I observed was a three hour aortic graft and valve replacement. I got to the, or early about seven 30 in the morning on a Thursday, all gowned up with a mask and scrub hat. And the team was already prepping the patient for sedation. Dr. Eni stood several yards away in the corner. So he could go over the case with me. The patient had an aortic aneurysm. You may know, I didn't. The aorta is the largest artery in the body and shaped like a candy cane. An aneurysm just means that part of it, the curved part at the top in this case had become swollen, stretched like a balloon filling with air. So the wall of it was too thin.

11 (54m 46s):
Unlike many other diseases, it does not have any symptoms until it ruptures. The first symptom is usually a rupture or death.

10 (54m 55s):
That seems like it's more than a symptom.

11 (54m 58s):
Yes. It's a conclusion. It's a conclusion one. Yeah. That's very well stated. Yeah.

10 (55m 3s):
The patient was still awake at this point. Eyes wide open listening to one of the anesthesiologists and he had a Brown mustache and a beer gut looked nervous, leaning toward afraid within minutes, he was unconscious and they were painting his naked body all over with an iodine based, taped his eyes shut. And then they swaddled him completely in plastic and blue surgical sheets, which made the whole thing feel much more impersonal. Dr. Ed seems to care a lot about his patients, but this is when I began to understand how automotive has work is managing the proper function of this motor with its valves and chambers and sparks propelling a person's blood. Finally, they made the first incision

12 (55m 44s):
And they're opening him up now, opening a femoral artery down by the pelvis. A lot of blood

10 (55m 54s):
And doctor, he was right. And the sound of them song open. The breastbone was, I guess we can go with alarming. Then they inserted the chest separator. It's like a reverse vise instead of squeezing things together, it spreads them apart. While I watch it on a wall monitor the circulating nurse, Patty LeFon came over and explained to me that they were slicing open. The pericardium was this kind of protective sack around the heart. And didn't know it came with that extra bit of packaging in his that is that the liver? No, that big part.

12 (56m 31s):
That's the lung. Wow. You almost see it expand and contract with breath. She was right.

10 (56m 43s):
And watch the lungs expand and contract with this Placid rhythm that made me think of ocean waves rolling in and out. It was earthly and it was familiar. And then things got a lot more intense.

12 (56m 54s):
Holy crap. Holy Holy smokes. Oh boy. Cutting tissue, cutting tissue open sort of like pushing the lung to the left. Now, Whoa. It broken through to the heart, which is feeding. It's sort of jumping like a fish in his chest,

10 (57m 23s):
Like an angry fish trying violently to escape, but even that's too terrestrial the description for what this looked like. It looked alien like a creature in a scifi movie with no familial relationship to humanity. It was startling almost frightening. And I will never forget it to think that same thing essentially is also inside of me and Dr. E and all of you and everyone. But when you see it, you think that thing is not to be trusted.

12 (58m 1s):
Yes.

10 (58m 1s):
Then doctor, he asked me if I wanted to come up top. Yes, please meant onto the stool, just behind the blue drape, that separates the sterile area, where they were operating from the rest of the room. So I was standing almost exactly above the patient's body, looking down into it and being that close. I just felt like I was looking at something so fundamental and ancient, and I felt like this is not something a regular schmuck like me is supposed to see, like if your guts are exposed and I'm there, it usually means something's gone really wrong.

11 (58m 37s):
You didn't realize that hearts were so big. One thing I tried to convey on the different writings for the general public is the beauty of the body, the internal beauty of the body. It suggest takes my breath away every single day. It's funny. I don't think beauty is the first word I would have thought of in this moment. Yeah. This is not the most beautiful art.

10 (59m 9s):
They hook the patient up to something called the heart lung machine. A big part of these procedures is outsourcing the work of the heart and the lungs to this big boxy kind of robot with rotating drums in it. And this is how they pull off the grand tricking the body into operating without the heart. They send the patient's blood to the machine, it oxygenates and pressurizes the blood and also cools it and then sends it back to the kidneys and the liver and the lungs, all the organs.

11 (59m 35s):
You can see that we meticulously removed all bubbles. Bubbles could cause a stroke. No those from the blood. Yeah. Bubbles of air in the blood. We removed them all very carefully. So you see now, Sean, at the hardest collapsed because we've taken all the blood out,

10 (59m 55s):
Dr. Eek clamps off the aorta, right above the aneurysm that takes the heart out of the circuit. They also send a super cold paralyzing fluid to it called retro grade or retro for short. So the heart isn't even trying to contract anymore. Now the patient's vital signs have almost totally seized no pulse, of course, because it's hard. Isn't beating very little brain activity, but it looks like this particular patient isn't as bad off as others. So they don't end up having to cool them all the way down to 64 degrees. When they do that, it means zero brain activity, no signs of life whatsoever. And when the patient's that cold, they actually turn off the heart lung machine, which means no blood flow to the brain.

10 (1h 0m 39s):
So no oxygen under those conditions. It's a race against time. They have 45 minutes to an hour to operate before the brain starts to die. Meanwhile, this patient's heart has been beating for more than 62 years since, before he was born is still most of us when our hearts stop it'll mean they're never going to start again and that'll happen to this guy eventually, too, of course, but this is just a timeout for the heart, a break. I like to think of it as a mini vacation, after a lifetime of constant labor in the pump house.

11 (1h 1m 22s):
Now he's opening the aorta and you're looking inside, Sean. Now you can see the cavernous dimensions of that aorta, right? Yeah. We could give it a zip code.

10 (1h 1m 36s):
Now they set about the actual mechanical work they're in there to do. First. They replace the aortic valve, which is all calcified. And then they swap out the bulgy part of the aorta with a synthetic tube. And after about two and a half hours, they're pretty much done. And it's time to bring the patient back to life. Doctor, he calls for the official D-ring maneuvers that is evacuating any excess air out of the heart before they let it fill back up again with a blood. And suddenly it's like, he's a movie director on set complete with lots of industry terms. I didn't understand.

11 (1h 2m 9s):
Okay. So let a little blood flow through the heart, run some retro for DRM and we'll take a half dozen. Nice fast salvage please.

10 (1h 2m 20s):
Valsalva is, are deep breaths. The anesthesiologist can actually control the motion of the patient's lungs. Next doctor. He needs to unclamp the aorta to put the heart back into circuit,

12 (1h 2m 31s):
Low flow for the clamp, the artifact clamp back up slowly, salvia down, retro off all the floats. Are you red on green, on warm all the way.

10 (1h 2m 45s):
Retro again is at paralyzing fluid. So they turn that off. Red and green are both drainage tubes. And I suppose what color they are and warm all the way means back to the world of 98.6 degrees. No scrambled albumin. Another hardest starting to be.

12 (1h 3m 2s):
It is. That's a good observation

10 (1h 3m 5s):
At this point, the patient's heart, the violent thing I was so afraid of in the beginning as much more docile looks more like a big chicken breast to me. Now, Dr. Reese says that probably means I'm getting hungry, which I was. I'm not someone who tends to seek out intense experiences. Not really adventurous. I don't dream about traveling to far away places, but looking inside of another human being like that, watching a group of people, open them up, fix what's wrong and close them again, felt as unusual and unlikely as visiting the moon. And it's a place of probably never visit again. And I didn't even know the guy didn't even meet him or say hello.

10 (1h 3m 48s):
I hope he's doing okay. Sean co

0 (1h 4m 1s):
Is one of the producers of our show that to John <inaudible> has a memoir about his career as a heart surgeon, it's called extraordinary hearts

12 (1h 4m 20s):
Genius.

0 (1h 4m 43s):
Well, I broke them as produced today by them out of the people who put a show together today includes Elena Baker, Susan Burton, Dan and chip is Sean Cole. I've even did Kornfeld Honda Jaffe Walsh, Andrea Lopez Cruzado Tobin Glo stone Nelson, Catherine Raymondo Natty Raymond Ari Safferstein. It goes to ship our star Chesky Lily Sullivan, Krista. So Tyler, Matt Tierney and Diane loo managing editor, Sarah Abdurrahman, senior editors, David Kestenbaum. Our executive editor is a manual Barry special thanks day to Alex Kellen in sky ye simmer majestic, Sergio Lopez, Leon gold on a FIDI Angelina Moshe Salazar, Josie Rourke, Melanie Belkin, Shelby. How I can Mark Dantonio Mitchell S Jackson's book, where he writes about his mom's blood donations and so much more it's called survival math. This American life has to give it to public radio stations by PRX, the public radio exchange, our website, this American life.org, where you can listen to our archive of over 700 episodes for absolutely free.

0 (1h 5m 33s):
Thanks as always your programs. Co-founder Mr. Tory. Maltia you know, he is counting down the days till Memorial day.

13 (1h 5m 40s):
Oh my God. I'm going to wear white pants again.

0 (1h 5m 44s):
I'm Eric Glass back next week with more stories of this summer,