0 (0s):
Support for this American life comes from Marcus by Goldman Sachs, who believe that you can money. Marcus invest now offers digitally managed portfolios backed by over 150 years. Financial experience find out more about their digitally managed portfolios, as well as their other products today@marcus.com brokerage advisory services by Goldman Sachs and co LLC member SIPC investments involve risk and may lose value.

1 (27s):
There's not much to the story of how chase got injured. He was invited to a new year's party in Philadelphia. He flies in, goes to the party, goes back to an apartment where he's staying with three other people gets up around seven in the morning,

2 (39s):
Lack of sleep, still hung over, maybe a little drunk from the night before. And I went to the bathroom and I tripped. And next thing I know I'm on the ground. All three of them are like around me. They're like freaking out

1 (54s):
Concussed. Doesn't know where he is or what's happening. They're like get up.

2 (59s):
And I was so confused. I was like, okay, I'm trying. And I was just like face down on the ground. My like arm was like this. And I was like pushing. And they were like shaking. The, the re the, the moment I realized I was like, paralyzed was, they were shaking my leg. And I like, kind of knew something was happening to my leg. I was like, are you touching me? And they're like, yeah, we're shaking your leg. You don't feel that. And I was like, no.

1 (1m 22s):
And the hospital you're going into this trauma and internal bleeding and a spinal cord around the C4 vertebra. They tell him, he may never walk again. He can stand or control his arms. We use his hands. Is that where he ever will? Somebody has to feed him. He's all alone. No visitors. He's basically a mobile in front of a television that said comedy central, which those particular weeks he says it was reruns of the office. Most of the day, he said he watched from season one all the way up through the finale of season nine. And then season one began again. And one day early in the ICU, he's in a group chat with his buddies, which means since he can't pick up his phone, a nurse reads to him what they were saying. And then he dictates what to write back.

1 (2m 4s):
And they're trying to cheer him up. When they come up with a project for him, a goal, I wrote goal and unusual goal, a goal. That is the reason that I want to talk to chase this goal. That really started as a joke.

2 (2m 18s):
My one friend Julian said, like, get better. Dan said, he'd let you kick him in the, when you get them.

1 (2m 25s):
Oh, wait a second. Let me just stop the story right there. I actually checked with our lawyers. It's not actually forbidden to say that word on the radio in the United States, but it falls into a gray area. And, and, and rather than beep it over and over, as you tell the story, we thought we might just substitute a word when you and I are talking. And here are the phrases. Our lawyers proved to replace that word with Manliness, man, parts, nether, region, loins twins.

2 (2m 58s):
Sorry. That is so what was the first one?

1 (3m 2s):
Manliness man, parts, nether region, loins twins.

2 (3m 9s):
You can't say,

1 (3m 10s):
Can't say, can't say we specifically asked about,

2 (3m 18s):
Sorry. This is such a funny part of this conversation. Well, what do you think's best? I'll just go with whatever you prefer.

1 (3m 27s):
I like nether region, just cause it sounds the funniest to me.

2 (3m 32s):
Okay. We can do that. I like it than others.

1 (3m 35s):
The Nethers for long chase got physical therapy where they plan what kind of electric wheelchair they would get him. Cause it was a chance his arms and legs would never recover. But of course he knew exactly where he was headed a goal. So pure that even a small child could understand it. A goal set specifically because his friends believed he never could reach it.

2 (3m 59s):
Dan would let me kick him in the Nethers. I kept that in the back of my head the entire time, the entire time I was getting better, I was like, Dan's going to have it. Dan's going to have it. You had a goal. I had a goal. I had a lot of goals and you know, on a more serious note that was having a goal. Having multiple goals was so important to the recovery.

1 (4m 23s):
In fact, he had three goals, king Dan and the Nethers was the most ambitious and pie in the sky, but the other two were no cakewalk either. And also pretty idiosyncratic take this next goal to

2 (4m 35s):
People off to give the middle finger. And I worked so hard on my hands. How

1 (4m 42s):
Old are you?

2 (4m 43s):
25. Come on, come on. So my, I couldn't move my fingers at all until about two and a half weeks in, I had a breakdown with the therapists there. I was like crying. It was one of my first big mental breakdown.

1 (5m 0s):
He thought he'd never use his fingers again. She's like, let's see. I told him to try to move his thumb. He couldn't do it, but he could move his index finger, like just a quiver, like a millimeter, just like that. And he set this goal, which he actually achieved a half later, but incredible effort. You spend only able to get his middle finger fully straight.

2 (5m 22s):
And I freaked out. I was like, look, I did it all the therapists look at me and I just start flipping all of them off. And they're like, yay.

1 (5m 36s):
Is that skull, which actually lives in California. But we're going to Philadelphia for the nearest party and injured himself in Philadelphia and was not recovering. And Philadelphia for him is an out-of-towner. One of the things that Philadelphia means is those steps. Sylvester Stallone runs up in the movie, Rocky, everybody in the Philadelphia museum of art chase wanted to climb them all 72 steps.

2 (5m 59s):
I told my therapist about it. And even though in the beginning, she thought it was going to be impossible. We just kept practicing steps as much as we could. That's that's the thing about the therapy is they take your goals and they work at it. No matter how ridiculous they are, whether it's kicking someone in the Nethers or climbing up some steps, they really try to gear it towards, towards what you want

1 (6m 21s):
To give you your sense of why the therapist thought it would be impossible or ridiculous. When chase came up with this goal, he couldn't stand. He couldn't walk later. They would suspend them above a treadmill with ropes and two therapists would move his legs to get the muscles, to remember what walking is. Then he would go on to walk with a cane and then without a cane. But before he did any of that back when he was still just learning to get around in a wheelchair, they started him going upstairs to make this goal. And two and a half months after he entered the hospital, he went to the steps where Rocky trained, rode in the wheelchair up to the first step, stood and started climbing slowly, watching each foot as he planted it.

1 (7m 3s):
One than the other physical therapist, steadying him from behind

2 (7m 7s):
And balance is difficult. I have to like look down. So the whole time I'm looking down at my legs and I can hear a bunch of people clapping, but I'm like so focused. I go up like the first little flight, go up. The second little flight, I look up hundreds of people.

1 (7m 28s):
I actually posted a thing online saying he was going to climb the Rocky steps and livestream it. And he didn't expect that lots of people would actually show up in person to see him climb to the top. So triumph, but there was one goal left the final goal, the most difficult goal. There were a bunch of reasons that we'll get to in a minute, taking down in the Nethers Dr. Emily abuse is one of Chase's physical therapists. She says most of her patients had spinal cord injuries and they're all kinds of goals. But when chase first told her about this one, she was like, wait, you want to work on your kicking? Why?

5 (8m 9s):
That was definitely a first for me. I'm not sure I've ever had anybody request that. And you know, as a, as a physical therapist, just like with doctors or anybody else, you know, our general motto is like, do no harm.

1 (8m 25s):
Oh, it hadn't occurred to me that, that you helping him kick Dan in the Nethers could actually be a violation of your Hippocratic oath.

5 (8m 34s):
Yeah. Well, I, you know, it just made me hesitate cause we talk about ethics a lot and you know, we never want to harm anybody else. And so I was, was a little, you know, a little hesitant at first, but the more we talked about it and I kind of understood that it was, you know, not like he was just going to try to go out and harm someone without third, without their consent, you know? And so I said, okay, well let's, let's break it down.

2 (9m 2s):
We, we practiced like kicking. We warmed up with some, like kicking a soccer ball, you know? Cause it was soft. It was easy

5 (9m 10s):
Being a soccer ball. You know, a lot of kicking. Isn't just the leg you're kicking with. It's being able to have your ballot standing on one leg, which for chase was a challenge.

2 (9m 20s):
It was a lot more difficult for me to stand on my right leg even today.

5 (9m 24s):
And then it was a little bit higher kicks to like a standing up kind of bolster. And we practiced each leg and figured out which leg would produce the most force, which one he had the best balance on. And all of that,

2 (9m 39s):
The left side of my body is in better condition. So we thought, is it better to balance on my left leg and kick with the right turned out? No, it was better to just try to balance on my right and kick with the left. Cause it was a lot stronger.

5 (9m 52s):
So it was kind of strategic and fun just to sort of figure out which one would, would get the tasks done, make it, so it wasn't just like he was, you know, tapping him or

1 (10m 4s):
Which, which Greg would really do some damage.

5 (10m 7s):
Yeah. I mean, which would make him feel like he really recovered.

1 (10m 11s):
I heard chase did recover much more quickly and completely than most of the patients Emily. So she says this particular injury just ended up working out like that. And so just a month after the Rocky steps, he reached his final goal and made a little video. Hey guys, I'm Dan and busted. He kicked him in the video. Dan seems like the most good natured person who has ever lived. He smiles.

2 (10m 34s):
And let me tell you when, when the day did come, when we were actually doing it the first time I went for the kick, I thought I got him, but I hit him in the thigh and not the Nethers and he could have faked it. He could have laid on the floor and pretended to be in pain immediately. He was like, chase you miss do it again. Like, all right, here we go.

1 (10m 54s):
And the video Dan stands there, legs spread awkwardly one, handcuffing his eyes laughing, which I think summarizes all the feelings you can have in that moment. Chase quietly says, sorry, you told me he felt bad for Dan. But yes, I felt like he comes so far. When

2 (11m 12s):
The texts got sent, initially they thought it was never going to happen. They thought it was going to be impossible. Instead I slammed him in his another's. I slammed him IRA. He was on the ground. He was not okay. He was okay after. But, and also like he said, it says in the video, chase slammed me in another's and it, and it felt so good. And because he at the same time was so proud of me for like being able to like get to a point where that was even possible.

1 (11m 45s):
He still has a way to go. He's not are recovered. Still devoting his days to physical therapy as ladies go. It says a lot about where he is right now. He wants to walk well enough. The people can't tell he ever had an injury. He wants to see him how he used to be. It's so high for him to open a water bottle or change a light bulb chest down. He doesn't feel temperature at all. So he can feel the water from the shower hidden, but can't tell how hot it is.

2 (12m 11s):
And then like my fingers, I can feel when they're touching things. But like, I can't always feel the texture. So when I'm like reaching for something in my pocket, I don't always know if I'm grabbing my wallet or my keys or just the pants. Like it's, it's kind of difficult, but I do have sensation everywhere. It just varies the level.

1 (12m 30s):
But it's interesting that like, you are so recovered, but you're not totally there. Like you've come so far, but you're not totally there. You're in this weird limbo.

2 (12m 39s):
It is weird. I'm not sure how much I like it. I just want all this to be done. I just want the recovery a bit done. Whether I fully recover or not. I just want to be at the point where I don't have to spend my entire dedicate my entire life to getting better. It's like the point I am extremely excited to get to is when I'm not thinking about it. Where, where, because right now, every time I move my hand, it's just in my head. Oh, like I have this injury. Every time I move my leg, oh, I have this injury.

1 (13m 8s):
Once you get to the point where he's used to what his body can do at whatever level that turns out to be, he doesn't want this dominating his thoughts and his whole day, this is the thing. Recovery means something different for everybody. Each person sits around goals. Part of recovering is actually defining for yourself what your own recovery means today in our program, we have people coming back from some very different things. They're in the same limbo chases in where they're partly there, but not all the way there in the middle, which is this moment of enormous hope, but also a lot of other stuff too, from WBC Chicago, since American life I'm IRA, glass, stay with us Naked lunch.

1 (13m 56s):
So today's show really came out of a question that one of our longtime producers, Susan Burton had about something that's happening in her own life. You may remember a few months ago, Susan told the story on our show about her eating disorder and how it was something she had kept secret for most of her life, from everyone in her life. And, and then she revealed the secret in the book. She wrote this memoir that came out last summer. And the book is about what it's like to have an eating disorder, not about how to get over one. Cause when she was in wrote it, she was not over it. She still lives in and over the two and a half years that she's been working toward recovery. She started to wonder like, what does recovery from an eating disorder even mean? A heads up that if hearing stories about eating disorders aggravate your own eating disorder symptoms, this may affect you.

1 (14m 41s):
Here's Susan.

6 (14m 42s):
At the beginning of recovery, I never thought about recovery. What I thought about was telling my secret, the secret was the eating disorder I'd had for 30 years. What was the seating disorder? It had been so many things starving. Bingeing. It's not like you pick an eating disorder as a teenage girl. And you have that one for the rest of your life. That relationship with food is what you have for the rest of your life or what it felt like to me. I was going to have, when at age 45, I stepped into my therapist office for the first time I'm preoccupied with food and I don't want to be. I told her that was the beginning. Now I'm in the middle two and a half years in.

6 (15m 24s):
And what that looks like it isn't easy to summarize. Easy would be. I now do X behavior instead of Y I don't have that kind of sentence, but I do have examples like this one, one afternoon, this spring, my husband made cookies. I took one from the cooling rack and I ate it with him and our 16 year old son. Maybe that sounds like a small thing. Maybe that sounds like nothing. I have to curb that impulse to tell you how small these things are, how nothing they are because with an eating disorder, how you relate to food, connects to and disrupts how you relate to everyone in your life and eating something sweet at that time of day. For me, that's not nothing that happens alone in secret because the pleasure is so intense.

6 (16m 9s):
It cannot be seen. It can not be shared. There'll be no pleasure if it's shared. But that day I leaned against the counter and ate the cookie and it felt good. It was one of so many things I didn't realize about recovery. It's not just eating intuitively. It's making food, something shared instead of something secret. Another day, my other son, age 13 came into the kitchen. He wanted me to come out to the garden so he could show me how the vines of his cucumbers were hardening. As they twined. He wanted to show me now and it couldn't be now, how could anyone be asking me to do anything now? I couldn't know in a second. And he went back outside.

6 (16m 50s):
But the reason I couldn't was that I just pitted cherries, that I was going to put on ice cream. The food was incoming on the way it could not be stopped. I could not be intruded on when I finished, I went straight to the garden and my son showed me the vines. I stood there, hating myself, reflecting on how many such moments there have been over the years. I can't right now. Not right now. I've done a lot of that. Like a lot of mothers and a lot of it has had to do with work, but work, come on. Really? There's no shame in that admission. There's all this hand-wringing about guilt and work and motherhood, but hard work is like the most culturally sanctioned thing in America. Try revealing that you've turned your child away because of food.

6 (17m 33s):
Do you detect anger? Most of us with eating disorders, volcanically angry. Also most of us Placid or even fun girl disguised. That's part of recovery to expressing anger. Not My body. My body is recovering too. It's changing. My body's like those sponges. My children always wanted when they were young and we were in line at the grocery store, the sponges are thin like sticks of gum, the color of Manila envelopes. When you put them in water, they expand.

6 (18m 14s):
That's what my body has done. It's like one of those flat sponges that expanded. I told this to my therapist, that's an interesting word flat. She said, it's the word? I mean, I emphasized flat. Not thin. Yes. She said, and you were flat inside too emotionally. And that was true. That's what the eating disorder does to you. That's part of why you have it. So you won't feel that's maybe the whole point close a blue linen dress with buttons down the front. There came a day in may when it was the right weather for it. I put on the dress, which used to be loose, but no longer was.

6 (18m 55s):
But the difference was that I didn't want it to be loose in the kitchen. My husband reached for me. He put his hands on my waist, rounded them over my hips and I wanted it. I wanted to be touched. That was new too, but the way I've gained the weight. Okay. So this is mixed. Some of it, it's not the bingeing I did for years, but there's been a lot of reaching for food all day. I long to eat in an orderly way, like meals on plates at consistent times, but I struggled to do so. There's a specific meal that comes to mind when I think about not only where I am in recovery, but what I want from it.

6 (19m 36s):
I want to be normal about lunch. One another scene I associate with lunch or this American life staff meeting, which happens in person once a week when there's not a pandemic. Every week, food is ordered in and laid out on a table and take out containers. I've never once taken the food we order in for this meeting. For years, I've watched people pick up plates and just put food on those plates and then sit down at the meeting and eat that food while we are talking. Every part of this is a Marvel to me, but actually what happens even before they get to the food, that's probably the most important part that they stood from their desks and came to get the food either hating themselves for already having eaten at the wrong time, nor brutal and empty because they've been too scared to put anything in.

6 (20m 26s):
I imagine hunger rising in a normal way in their bodies, a kind of rising hunger. That's so unfamiliar. It's like I crave it in the way people may be crave, love, or touch or something. It happens so rarely for me. This is what I'm thinking about. When I sit in a circle of coworkers with plates on their labs, I'm looking at these people and imagining what they feel in their bodies. It makes me feel very distant from them in a way that's kind of far reaching as in it extends out to other ways. I relate to my coworkers and everyone in my life. So yeah, in recovery, I want to be normal about lunch.

6 (21m 10s):
Normally we all know there is no normal that normal is being phased out, but normal stays in my head when it comes to food. Normal about food is that recovery. When my book came out and I was first doing interviews about it, people would ask me, where are you with food? Now? I would say, I'm working toward recovery, but I felt so uneasy. Whenever I said this, I felt like I was throwing around a phrase. I didn't understand. And that my ignorance was clear to everyone who actually knew about eating disorder recovery. I just felt so out of my depth, just so new to this, to every part of it, to the working toward it, part to recovery, which just to say, was that the process or the end was there an end?

6 (21m 60s):
What does recovery from an eating disorder even mean? Square one. I went looking for the official clinical definition of eating disorder recovery. I wanted this as context as a baseline, but it turned out there was no baseline. There's no consensus about what recovery means. Most definitions include physical criteria. Like, are you at a healthy weight and behavioral? Like, have you stopped bingeing? But there's also how much you're thinking about food, your ability to express emotions, all the stuff that has nothing to do with eating.

6 (22m 42s):
This is where the lack of consensus comes in over what other stuff belongs in the definition intellectually. I was interested in all of this, but emotionally, what I really wanted was to talk about recovery with people. Who'd been through it. People further, along in it than me. I wanted to talk about what recovery felt like to them. Maybe as a way of imagining myself into my own version of it. And I had two people in mind. The first one was someone who'd said a single word to me about recovery. That captured how I wanted to feel there a word that I'd been returning to for months. The word was sturdy. I'm very happy to be talking to you again.

6 (23m 23s):
Okay. Good. Me too. If you're, I don't know, under 30 and you grew up watching Nickelodeon, you probably know who Jeannette McCurdy is. She was a star of teen comedies, Carly salmon cat in her early twenties. She quit acting. It was actually a part of her eating disorder recovery. And now she has a podcast called empty inside. She interviewed me for it last summer, which is when she said that word sturdy that stayed with me ever since

7 (23m 49s):
First. And most importantly, I felt sturdy enough in my recovery that I could share my story. So

6 (23m 54s):
When we spoke, you use this word to describe your recovery. You said you waited to tell your story until you were sturdy, as soon as you said that word, like something about it grabbed me. And then when I responded to you, I even like repeated the word, kind of trying it out. Like it just shows a lot of self knowledge too, that you waited till you a point where you were like sturdy, because of course it stayed with me after the interview. And I think like it had so much significance because it described to me both an emotional and like a physical place I had, you know, for so long privileged and tried for frailness and fragility.

6 (24m 38s):
And so like the idea of being sturdy was like suddenly appealing to me, like a sturdy body, but also like sturdiness in the way that like, you could be buffeted by bad. I like the hard experiences come out. Okay. Like you could withstand it like you might get like blown about, but you wouldn't get broken. You would be okay. And yeah. And I think as far as like, thinking about my recovery, it's been an interesting word to return to, because it's not like as woo as some other stuff like Phoenix rising or the tiger. Yeah. You know what I mean? Like there's something really real about it anyway.

6 (25m 19s):
Oh my God. Okay. So I'm going to hear what sturdy means to you.

7 (25m 23s):
Well, I mean, I just have to say, I, anytime somebody starts like comparing people to animals, you know, you know, to the, the lioness prowls and the night sky, I'm like, you lost me. I have, there's nothing real that I can grab onto. So for me, it's really important to use language that kind of reflects reality. Otherwise I just

6 (25m 45s):
Dirty, meant to Jeannette was that she felt strong enough in her recovery to speak publicly about her eating disorder, without falling back into it. So to give you a sense of what she had to recover from for eating disorder started when she was 11 and,

7 (25m 58s):
And being a child actor, I always played roles that were kind of younger than my actual age. And it was very beneficial to be able to play roles that were younger than my age, because you could work longer hours. So they were much more inclined to cast you if you were 12 playing eight than if you were eight playing eight. But when I was 11, I sort of started developing a little tiny, I'll call it a nipple, bud. I don't know what else to call it. Like just a little like the littlest peep of a breast. And my mom had actually had cancer when I was two years old. So I thought the only thing I knew about lumps and breasts was that that meant cancer. So I thought, oh no, she had cancer. Now I have cancer. I showed my mom this lump. She felt it. And she said, oh, Nettie, no, you don't have cancer.

7 (26m 41s):
You're getting, you're just getting breasts. And in my 11 year old mind breasts were just about as bad as cancer. Truly. I did not want to be older. I didn't, I knew that that would be, you know, really, really not good for my acting career. And I was largely the financial support for my family. So I knew that I meant bad things for my family. I just wanted to stay young. So I said, well, how can I, how can I keep the boobs from coming in? My mom said, well, there's this thing called calorie restriction, genetic.

6 (27m 11s):
I actually wrote a song about this conversation. It's from a one woman show she's been performing.

8 (27m 16s):
It might be time for me to teach you a thing <inaudible> I'm 11 years old. I don't want, that is 11 years old is the perfect age to find out.

7 (27m 28s):
And from that point on, she, she not only coached me, but really, you know, she had had eating disorders of her own for quite a long time. So we were sort of this, I call it like a mommy and me eating disorder team. And we were just, you know, we'd help each other out every single night meal planning for the next day, calorie calorie, counting for the pre for the day that we just experienced and swapping tips and tricks and reading women's world magazine, diet pages together. And we were just, you know, I thought it was this fabulous thing where, where you were just this little duo and I thought, wow, I'm so lucky. My mom's helping me with this thing. I'm helping her look at us, go

8 (28m 4s):
Bed. Or when your empty and harder drugs,

6 (28m 12s):
The idea of going over the calories for your day with your mother. I mean, you know, how many times in my life have I made like little lists of like, you know, 200 plus one 50 plus, but, but it was so alone. I mean, my God that you were doing it with your mother.

7 (28m 28s):
Yeah, yeah, absolutely. I mean, I think, I think definitely the experience of eating sort of so often is something that's so lonely. And while it became that for me, after my mom died and, and the eating disorder I switched to bulemia for almost the entire time that I had anorexia, it was very much a team sport.

6 (29m 4s):
Was there like a moment or like a stage where you started using the word recovery to describe your experience to yourself?

7 (29m 15s):
Well, I'm glad we're going to talk about like a little bit about Wu or words earlier because there was something actually in recovery that didn't, I did not like, it felt like when I thought of the word recovery, I thought it's somebody in head to toe linen, just, you know, each waves like grinning ear to ear, laughing about how easy their life is taking up a seashell and like tossing it into the sea. That was not how I felt about life or was sure I would ever, ever feel about life. So I was very wary of using the word recovery for, for quite some time. And I would say I kind of, I just tried to bypass that and use other words.

7 (29m 55s):
I'm trying to think of what I said, you know, I would just, I would just kind of be, I would say, you know, it was something I'm working on

6 (30m 1s):
Midway through. She got to a point that sounds a lot like where I am now. She describes the feeling this

7 (30m 7s):
The way I've been in recovery for a few years, and I'm not where I want to be. This has been very stop and go. It's been very good week, bad week. I'm not satisfied with that. I want, I wanna, I wanna wake up tomorrow and, and work toward being fully recovered. I think it's time. And, and I, and I felt ready.

6 (30m 32s):
Yeah. So at that point, I mean, because, you know, among the reasons I wanted to talk to you is because you are like, as somebody who dislikes the phrase, recovery journey, as much as you, but you are further along that like beach the beach in your linen dress than I am. And I am, I feel really ready to, to be on the other side of this. So for somebody like me, who's listening to you tell this story and is like, I have that thought too. I want to put it behind me. So like what, how were you able, like, what did you do next that got you to where you are now?

6 (31m 18s):
Jeanette's answer to my question about what she did next was essentially it wasn't what she did next. That mattered. It was all the work she'd already done and therapy. She grappled with a lot of the underlying reasons for her eating disorder felt rage toward her mother grieved her mother. Yes. She was still purging and still restricting, but way, way less, she just knew that she didn't need those behaviors as coping strategies anymore. She developed others. She'd started writing, finding her own voice. That was a few years ago. She describes where she is now as recovered. How does like the reality of, of feeling recovered? Like how does it compare with what you imagined?

7 (32m 3s):
Oh my God, it feels like there's not that weight constantly. And, and while I would say, you know, I'm definitely far a far distance from like peace, whatever, you know, it's another one of the rewards for me, but, but I feel good. I feel

6 (32m 22s):
She feels more present. I feel more able to focus, more able to feel her feelings and to tolerate the uncomfortable ones. Oh, these are all things I hope for precisely. I felt, I asked her about something that might sound weird if you've never had an eating disorder, but I feel food in my body just intensely. Jeanette said she understood 1000% what I meant by this. And she said, that's gone now too.

7 (32m 49s):
It's like, I'm more in tune with my body. Yeah. But less aware of those types of things,

6 (32m 58s):
Talking to Jeanette, it made me think of a term I'd come across. And the research I'd done about the definition of recovery indistinguishable as in a person can recover so fully from an eating disorder that they become indistinguishable from someone who's never had one it's ended almost. Saifai like we erase your eating disorder, but also your old identity. Like not even something I would want, but also something I instantly wanted. I thought I'd try out indistinguishable on Jeanette, see if it resonated. Like there's no difference from them and somebody who's never had an eating disorder. Like their brain is indistinguishable from some love that

7 (33m 35s):
You need to thrive

6 (33m 36s):
And love that. But so does that, does that? It is. So it sounds like that is appealing to you. Like, is that what you feel like, do you feel indistinguishable from somebody who's never had an eating disorder?

7 (33m 48s):
That's huge. That's hugely appealing. I think, you know, I'd be lying if I, if I, if I said there, wasn't always kind of some awareness of that being my past. Yeah. But I would say that I definitely like notice when somebody doesn't have any sort of eating disorder. Like I feel like I can spot them quite easily of like, oh wow. They, they just are, are normal is kind of my, my thought. And I would say I'm, I'm as close to that as I can possibly be. I have zero food rules. I eat, you know, whatever. I want breakfast, lunch, dinner snacks. And, and I don't think at all about it. It's I it's, it's, it's almost odd to me when I think about my past, I I've said several times to my partner, I'll say like, I cannot believe that there was a time in my life when that was who I was like, I, I it's so wild to me.

7 (34m 44s):
It's just, it feels like a different person. It feels like. I mean, I guess it does feel like my brain was wired differently. Then

6 (34m 51s):
I felt hopeful after talking to Jeanette, like the freedom, she feels that it was possible for me here was someone who'd thought thoughts. Like mine who'd felt feelings in her body like mine, who now had new thoughts and a new experience of her body. But I've had these thoughts and feelings for a lot longer time. I'm 47. Jeanette just turned 29. One of the realities of my recovery is just that I've lived with an eating disorder for so many years. And I really wanted to talk to someone my own age. Who'd started recovery in. Middle-age talk about what it had been like for them. I had someone in mind, Anissa gray Anissa wrote a novel called the care and feeding of ravenously hungry girls, which I read last summer and was really affected by the novels.

6 (35m 41s):
Protagonist is a black lesbian in her forties with an eating disorder, a description that explodes all kinds of stereotypes about who has eating disorders and who gets to tell stories about them. Anissa is in her fifties, her bingeing and purging started in college like me. She hid her eating disorder from everyone in her life for years.

9 (36m 1s):
I, I used to be very careful about, you know, not doing certain behaviors at home when someone could hear, but my wife heard me in the bathroom at one point. And that was when, you know, when the shoe dropped

6 (36m 17s):
Anissa agreed to get help, but only because her wife wanted her to, they live outside Atlanta and it's a found an eating disorder center there. She showed up for her first group therapy session straight from a three hour workout and a binge and purge.

9 (36m 31s):
And one of the things I noticed immediately upon walking in was that a, I was the only black person in the room. I'm not unfamiliar with that scenario. It's, you know, that's essentially been the case for me most, if not all of my life. So that was fine. And, but I was really struck by how young the women were in the, in the group,

6 (36m 57s):
Mostly college age and twenties went around 40, like Anissa was then they were the oldest ones. So for those of us who have had this history of eating disorders, that's lasted, you know, for decades, instead of, for several years, it's, it's different, right? Like the, the neural pathways are just so much, like the grooves are so much deeper at this age. You know, I, I think back to some like adolescent diary entries, you know, I would, I would, you know, be scrawling after a binge and, and you know, this has been a part of my life for two years. I've lost two years to this and my God, you know, like, I didn't know how, how many more years is this something you've thought about?

6 (37m 46s):
Yeah.

9 (37m 46s):
And I think there's something for women sort of in our cohort, perhaps not to have sought treatment early. And that's why I think it's so important for older women to talk about it. When I was out on tour, I met so many women, forties and fifties and sixties who had struggled for just years and years. And we're finally trying to get well,

6 (38m 16s):
Yeah. I mean, same whenever I get a note from a woman, forties, fifties, sixties, even seventies, it's always somebody who's struggled for years. And I have thought the exact same thing as you, that there's something about our contemporaries where we didn't seek treatment early. And then part of me started wondering, is it, you know, some kind of gen X latchkey kid Or, you know, or was it just a different time? I didn't know anything about Anissa's own recovery beyond that she had more of it under her belt than I do 10 years into it.

6 (38m 58s):
She doesn't feel totally free. It wasn't what she expected at the beginning.

9 (39m 3s):
I thought that, that there would be an end that, you know, I would reach this place where I didn't have these thoughts anymore. I did not have these urges anymore. And, and I was, would be quote, unquote, normal. I would have a very healthy relationship with food. I have a better relationship with food, for sure. But I don't know if I will ever be quote unquote a normal when it comes to food and exercise. Yeah. I mean, there was disappointment in, you know, realizing, okay, this is gonna be with me, but there's also a sense of accomplishment and resilience that I have.

9 (39m 48s):
And I know what life used to be like for me. And I know what it is now. So it, it it's easier, but, you know, I just have to be vigilant and careful.

6 (40m 1s):
So if at the beginning of treatment, you're imagining that there will be an end and you'll reach a place where you don't have the thoughts anymore. And then there's kind of a stage where you're disappointed to realize like, okay, this is going to be with me. You know, I'm curious about this as someone who, who wonders, if, if this, this won't be where I wind up to. And so I'm wondering something that might be hard to answer, but I'm just wondering kind of like how you knew that. And when you knew that I think was,

9 (40m 32s):
Was somewhat evolutionary. I ended treatment, you know, with still, you know, some of the thoughts and I was much better at managing them, but as time went on, I did start to wonder, okay, so is this, is this just how I'm going to be? I just thought it would sort of work itself out as I went on. And so far it hasn't on the positive side, that the thoughts are much fewer, you know, the compulsion or nothing compared to the way I started out.

6 (41m 14s):
And this is says that one thing that was important to her in this process was watching a friend gets sober and sobriety for many people. The idea is that you're never recovered, always in recovery. It's a process that's always ongoing, that never ends as an SSL with her friend. I

9 (41m 31s):
Think it was through that and sort of watching her manage and watching her understand that, you know, this is going to be, this is an ongoing thing for me, her peace with that I think was really helpful for me to sort of get some peace with myself, like to not feel so tortured about it, to not feel like, oh, what was me? This is the cross I have to bear. You can live life and you, can you be happy? You just have your thing. You know, it may, maybe there are maybe there is some, you know, point where I'll, I'll just be fine.

9 (42m 11s):
And, but I don't see that, but I'm also okay with that

6 (42m 15s):
Talking to Anissa about being okay with an ongoing thing. It helped me imagine how I might feel on the future. What I want. It's simple. Like if my son were to come into the kitchen and ask me to come to the garden while I was making food, I'd have a reaction like, oh, I'm about to eat something, but I'll come out when I'm through. Do you want to sit with me while I eat? And then we could go out together. And when we went outside to the garden, I would just be in my body. I wouldn't feel my flesh. And if my neighbor came over, I would wave and chat and not feel fake or terrified.

6 (42m 57s):
There would just be an ease. And if something did rise up some spikiness some fear, some urge to reach for food or to reject it and be able to handle it. And if despite my best efforts, I submitted to it and be able to tolerate the disappointment. I don't know if that would feel like recovery to me. I don't think I can know until I get there, but I think it would feel like sturdiness

1 (43m 33s):
Susan Burton. She's an editor on a program. I remember about her eating disorder is called empty. Coming up. Keep, lumbars ask a question that Dr. Fowchee has not weighed in on yet, which COVID vaccine is the most likely to get somebody to make out with you. That's in a minute and Chicago public radio.

1 (44m 14s):
When our program continues

0 (44m 17s):
Support for this American life comes from Shopify. The all-in-one commerce platform to start, run and grow your business. Shopify gives entrepreneurs the resources once reserved for big business so they can sell everywhere, synchronize online and in-person sales and stay informed, reach customers online and across social networks with integrations and apps, including Facebook, Instagram tic-tac, and more Shopify powers. Over 1.7 million businesses from first sale to full-scale go to shopify.com/this American life, all lower case for a free 14 day trial, shopify.com/this American life.

10 (44m 54s):
<inaudible> the largest real estate investing platform gives investors like you access to institutional quality opportunities across the country. Today. Thousands of investors are building their personal portfolios online with crowd street, from multifamily and industrial warehousing to self storage and senior living. When you create your free account, you'll join an active community of investors who have discovered how easy it can be to invest in real estate with crowd street, feel like an insider and benefit from institutional quality deals. Let's build your diversified portfolio. Learn more@crowdstreet.com.

1 (45m 27s):
It's this American life, my reclass today's program. The thing I'm getting over stories of people who are in the middle of changing their lives, figuring out the puzzle of exactly how they're going to get from where they were to where they're heading. We have arrived at act two of our program act to shock girl, summer in the city. So this past spring, when more and more people started getting their COVID vaccines, this phrase kept popping up. When people talked about the country, getting back on its feet, what does this mean

11 (45m 54s):
In the hot vac summer? America is Vaxxed and wax hot girl. Summer is now shot girl, summer hot summer in the city

1 (46m 3s):
Shot girl summer. It's the idea of this summer people. Who've got the shots and have all this pent up energy from over a year of isolation. We'll be out there hooking up, like never before, but I'm going to start it as kind of a Twitter joke and ended up at something. They were actually covering on local news. And I think it got all this attention because it is a very understandable way to measure how far the country has come in its recovery from COVID. But you know, what's the reality here? What is shock girl summer? Like really for the people living it on a bakery, we looked into that quick warning. If you're listening with kids, there's nothing explicit in this story at all, but it does acknowledge that sex exists and is a thing between adults.

1 (46m 44s):
Here's Donna,

12 (46m 45s):
I've heard this summer compared to the roaring twenties or the sixties, summer of love. I've read articles about people making out in the streets. I've seen the viral picture of a condom shelf at Walgreens in New York city. That is so empty. It looks like it's been rated and I've heard waxing salons were booming with lots of people prepping to be naked in front of one another for the first time in 15 months. So I decided to stop by a salon sugaring, New York city. I talked to a waxer named Parmender who said, yeah.

13 (47m 15s):
Oh yeah, definitely. Sometime it's so busy that you don't even get a break to like even have a snack in between like you're running in and out like clients like in and out throughout the room. And it's good because a day goes by faster, but

12 (47m 29s):
That's one of the things I witnessed in the lobby, like the urgency, this woman was trying to make appointment. And she was like, no, but I have to, I have to, I have to, like, you guys are like, it's like the doors are being knocked down right now. Why, why is the urgency so big right now? Hookups late last minute, hookups in the hype is specifically like about sex this summer, right? Exactly. This is another wax where I spoke to Corrina, especially with the Brazilians. Yeah. I've had numerous people say I'm getting this Brazilian quarter shot. Go summary. The staff at a cafe and bar on the Bowery called short stories, confirm the trend with the most television ready quotes I've ever heard are people acting bolder and hornier this summer

14 (48m 17s):
On a level that we thought not possible since the inception of the internet, since the newspaper and the printing press went

12 (48m 25s):
Into effect. That's Tom, the late night manager,

14 (48m 29s):
It's been unprecedented. Say the very least.

12 (48m 33s):
I asked him, what's his

14 (48m 34s):
Proof. The amount of bleach that we use in the bathroom is, is probably at an astronomically all time high. And it's, it's, you know, I'm waiting to restock the bathroom, make sure everything's okay. It's kind of like, okay, well there's a couple of people coming out all at the same time and, and belts aren't on it, which is interesting because you know, our lost and found is currently filled with pants. I don't know. I I've never seen this happen. I've got skirts. I've got shorts. I'm just curious. This is true. When was the last time you went somewhere and lost your pants

12 (49m 6s):
For the record? Six years ago, my friend ISIS birthday, Joey, the beverage director has been watching people try to get back in the game. One of the things she notices is how quickly people cut to the chase, the most common pickup line, which vaccine do you have?

15 (49m 27s):
It's the new do you come here often is, is, is yeah. So Pfizer and I, you know, it's a club, it's a club. It's incredible. God,

12 (49m 36s):
That's so boring, boring, open,

15 (49m 39s):
Completely vapid. It's so boring. And it, and it does the trick.

12 (49m 44s):
People at the bars did seem to have a lot of vaccine, brand loyalty. One woman told me she had Moderna, which she liked best. Because when you say I'm Madonna, it sounds like you're saying I'm a modern woman. What were, what are your shots? I am a Pfizer girl,

16 (49m 59s):
Madonna, Madonna, Pfizer, Johnson and Johnson.

12 (50m 7s):
I spent a couple nights outside of bars, talking to dozens of people, looking for evidence that hookups are on the rise, asking for stories. And I have breaking news for everyone. Shock girl. Summer is a sham. It's one of the oldest slides in the book, straight out of a high school locker room. Lots of people about having sex, but no actual sex.

17 (50m 31s):
Everyone's been horny for months. Now's the time everyone's unleashing. If you're not getting laid, something's been majorly

12 (50m 38s):
Wrong or you getting laid.

17 (50m 40s):
I have a boyfriend. So yeah,

12 (50m 43s):
Friends, that's not a thing. Having sex in a long-term partnership is not the post pandemic Bacchanalia and free for all. We've all been hearing about, are you having lots of hookups this summer?

18 (50m 55s):
Not really. No. Maybe people are more than they were, but

12 (51m 2s):
There's that? You're

18 (51m 3s):
Not, but I'm not. No

12 (51m 6s):
One night a friend and I were out at a hookah bar talking about how none of the single people we know are hooking up during shock girl, summer, we named names. It was a long list. We turned to the table next to us, a bunch of attractive 20 somethings dress for a night out. And I explained, I have this theory that everyone is saying, we're all having casual sex right now, but nobody actually is, is this true? They told me, no, I was dead wrong. This summer is wild. This is the summer to be single in New York. They've been going crazy. And I was like, oh, okay. So you guys are having sex one by one. They each said, no, no, no.

12 (51m 48s):
I started recording

19 (51m 50s):
Before Some case where we're like, everyone is saying everyone is, and what we've discovered is, well, I think that's one of the people everybody wants to just like, forgot how to do it. And how to like, like, you know, to like start a conversation with a stranger. You gonna feel I'm where they'll think I'm weird or whatever. But also we gonna break that like ice, you know, there'll be like, yeah, who cares? So in theory, it's due to that's the plan and crackly. We have to figure it out.

12 (52m 30s):
Of all my friends. If anyone was having a shock girl, summer, as in hooking up, there's one that had to be her name is Mads. She's 25. She goes out almost every night travels in a pack of single girls. I asked her if this is the summer of hookups for her or any of her friends,

20 (52m 47s):
We're going out together. We're trying to have sex. We're trying to have a good time. But none of us are finding anything

12 (52m 55s):
Because all the bartenders, like I talked to bartenders, I talked to people who work in waxing salons. I talked to people, doing all the prep work to get people sex ready or whatever. And they're all like, yeah, people are like, they're, they're boning. Like it's wild, you know? But then as far as they know, that's what people are doing because people leave the bar together. But in reality, what you're seeing is

20 (53m 20s):
No, no bones down, no bone town USA.

12 (53m 28s):
So if no one's having sex, like w what is even to just help me understand the transaction? Like, what happens when you meet someone? What goes down

20 (53m 37s):
There is back and forth, banter, teasing. Then you, I dunno, sometimes get drunk and then just start talking about all the things you want to do to one another, you got in a cab, you go back to their apartment and then you're like alone with them and you just want to hug.

12 (53m 54s):
And that's on both

20 (53m 55s):
Sides. Yeah. Yeah. In fact, I tried to like sleep with a few people recently and they, it was like them, they were not interested. Like, couldn't, it didn't work. And they're just like, sorry, I don't know. Like, I don't know why, like, can, can we just kinda just hope one of them was like, can I just hold you? And the other one was like, can I just like, take a shower with you? And we can talk. It's like people really looking for things that make them feel like, like comfortable after this year. Yeah. We're like all flinging ourselves back out into the whirlwind of dating in the city.

20 (54m 40s):
And we're not equipped at all. Why it's like this last year. I know people who've died from COVID like, I know people who are really sick. Like I lost my job. I went through, break up. I lost my home and had to move to new city to move in with my family. And now I, you know, I tried to date normally the way that I used to, but I can't, I feel more Ron honest with myself and with others. But I think that doesn't really result in like, that's sexy time.

12 (55m 26s):
This tracks with my experience recently, I went out with this guy whose profile said, I'm just coming out of a long-term monogamous relationship and not looking to get back into one. I interpreted this as code for hookups only, but then when we went out, he talked to me for three hours about all the inner reflection the pandemic had led to and how he couldn't be with someone until he sorted out his demons. I in turn told him how sick I got and how it took me a full three months to recover. It was sweet, but not as advertised. I've been out with five other guys since it starts hot and ends feeling like I've been to a support group.

12 (56m 6s):
It's confusing, Mads degrees.

20 (56m 9s):
You're in the mood. And then you're not all of a sudden it's weird. I don't know. I can't put my finger on like what it is really. I definitely felt like there's a thing inside of me. That's kind of, yeah, there's a sadness inside of me. That will be fine. Like, I'm good at hiding it. I'm good at not addressing it. But then when I'm alone with someone in this intimate setting, it kind of like flares up inside of me. And as something kind of flares up inside of them too, I used to worry that my things that I had been through my traumas and sadnesses, it kind of like ruined me for other people. Like just people wanted to have like fun or were like cool and nice in a way it's kind of lovely to feel like, oh, like I see this in everyone.

20 (56m 57s):
Now.

12 (56m 60s):
I thought it would be a sign of recovery. If people were moving on, cutting loose, leaving the past year behind. But instead it seemed like they felt very aware of what they've been through, what everyone is feeling. That decision to not look away to embrace the sadness. That's a sign of recovery too.

1 (57m 26s):
And a baker is a producer on our show But in this program is produced by Lily Sullivan and Susan Burton.

1 (58m 9s):
The people who put together today's show include beam out of wound me out of baker. Sean co-owner Guild, Damien grave, haunted Joffey wild Beth lake, Mary Marge, Hawker Tobin, Volvo Mickey, next door Nelson, Catherine Mae, Mando, Nadia, Raymond Ari Safferstein was a ship. Jessica Siriano, Christopher stir, Tala, coli, Weiner, and Diane Wu, our managing editor, Sarah Abdurrahman, our senior editors, David Kestenbaum. Our executive editor is Emmanuel Barry special. Thanks today to Anna Bardo and Cohn Andrea Lamar and Ashwin Deshmukh. If you want to see the videos that chase Friedman made of kicking his friend in the Nethers and the Rocky steps and giving the finger and other stuff, they were at his Tik TOK account. His handle, there is chase gets better. All one word or an Instagram. He is chase unfiltered, our website, this American life.org.

1 (58m 50s):
You can stream our archive of over 700 episodes for absolutely free. Also there's videos and lists of favorite shows for your summer cartridge listening and tons of other stuff there too. Again, this American life.org is American. Life is delivered to public radio stations by PRX, the public radio exchange. Thanks as always to reprogram programs. Co-founder Mr. <inaudible>, you know, he is the worst person to tell a joke to knock, knock who's there.

3 (59m 16s):
That is. So what was the

1 (59m 17s):
First one? I'm IRA glass back next week. The more stories of

3 (59m 21s):
This American vibe <inaudible>.