0 (0s):
Support for this American life comes from Marcus by Goldman Sachs, but the personal loan from Marcus, you get a fixed rate and no fees ever. No late fees, no prepayment fees, no application fees, no origination fees, just a no fee loan that could help consolidate debt. You can money lending and deposits products provided by Goldman Sachs bank USA member FDI FDAC.

1 (25s):
This house on Washington street in New York. Doesn't look like a house tomorrow going to industrial building comes right up to the sidewalk. Red brick, steel window frames, and a greater windows. It'd be considered a big house anywhere, but in New York where people get in pretty small quarters.

2 (40s):
I mean, it's huge. My building, I think has 14 apartments. And I think this looks twice as big as it. And it's just him and his family. I don't know

1 (54s):
The him in this case is known goddess, man, a billionaire finance guy and art collector. Like I telling me about him is a neighbor from around the corner, a 11, not a billionaire father of two teenage boys who share a bedroom. He runs a jewelry business with his wife. There's one other important feature on this immense house that he wants me to see. Bright yellow letters, neat and tidy and dignified on the bank of windows,

2 (1m 21s):
No parking active driveway. But if when you live here, everybody knows he's bluffing.

1 (1m 30s):
It's not a no parking zone. He says, cause there's no driveway. There's no garage. There's just a big door. But by pretending to have a driveway, but this man gets, he says it's kind of real estate money cannot buy in. New York is own free parking space, right in front of his house. And parking parking is just beyond difficult in certain neighborhoods of New York. Like people cry over parking. It's so frustrating and finding a space in this neighborhood. He also has

2 (1m 59s):
You sometimes go make the rounds and rounds and rhymes and time passes. Sometimes it can take an hour sometimes more.

1 (2m 10s):
Yeah. It says that when he first noticed Gottesman signs telling people not to park there, he respected the Moxy.

2 (2m 16s):
Initially it was very funny. I actually chuckled and I was like, this guy, you know, good for him for confiscating a parking lot. I mean, whenever I passed it, it was like kind of funny, look, look what this guy did.

1 (2m 33s):
And then one day I was driving around, looking for parking himself. It's taking forever. And he sees the space in front of God husband's house. And he decides, okay, this'll be the day he'll park there.

2 (2m 46s):
Five, 10 seconds after there's a security guard or two of them that barge out of the property. They have cameras all over. So they see when you park and they run out,

1 (3m 2s):
He says, they told him, you can't park here. And they pointed to the signs on the door.

2 (3m 6s):
I was like laughing. And I said, listen, guys, I'm a neighbor. I know what you're doing here. I don't, I personally don't care, but I'm allowed to park here. And then they start making threats. You will get told, why are you being so difficult?

1 (3m 24s):
AOL describes himself as somebody who's generally pretty mellow. And the first time he tried to park there and he decided it wasn't worth arguing about and pulled out. And the next time he needed a place to park, he bought into the space. Again, again, the tough guys showed up and this time yell that out enough. He stood his ground.

2 (3m 41s):
I was like, why am I being bullied? When I know for a fact that I'm allowed to park there and that the signs are basically faked.

1 (3m 50s):
So he left his car there. He parked did that. Maybe a half dozen times. He says, then one day he's taking his son to school, walks by the parking space. And he realizes his car's gone. They had him towed. Al believes the guards. Must've found a cop, who'd read the ticket and then called for the tow truck. The ticket later got thrown out. But to get his car back, y'all still had the hassle riding the subway out to the tow lot. There's wasn't part of Queens called MassPAT. There was a subway ride and a 20 minute walk. He says, yeah. So I had to pay $201 to get the car back.

2 (4m 24s):
I mean, at the time I was enraged. It's it's ludicrous. It's my car. It's public space. I don't care how much money you have. I'm still allowed to park on the street.

1 (4m 37s):
So the neighbor had cameras, guards, money, and alpha cops. They could talk and writing tickets or something that is not illegal, but y'all had some moves to send the story to the tabloids, talk to her about.

2 (4m 51s):
Then I wake up in the morning and I see it online. And I'm like, whoa, like it was the whole front page. And what was

1 (4m 59s):
The headline again? We're going to department for this part of the conversation. And he heads over to a cardboard box behind his couch next to a bin of soccer and basketballs, browse through some stuff and pulls out three different days of the New York daily news where this story is the front page. You can't buy that kind of real estate in New York, either the front pages of the New York tabloids. They're like the Madison square garden of journalism usually reserved for the top. Acts cheating celebrities. No good. Nick mayors, headless bodies and topless bars, a rod.

2 (5m 35s):
So all over the first page and they got a great headline. I think total jerk.

1 (5m 42s):
And they spelled tow tout tow dash Tao, right? Get it tow. Like they towed his car. He's interviewed for radio and TV. Follow-up stories, the mayor's office, of course hugging a parking space. Like this is shameful. The department of buildings sends out an inspector and the billionaire goddess man is eventually told that if he wants to call this a driveway, he needs to install a proper garage door. That's why the story had such legs. That's something for everybody,

2 (6m 12s):
Rich guy and man, a car being towed. How the rich always get away with it.

1 (6m 21s):
David versus Goliath.

2 (6m 23s):
Yeah. And I'm David, nice to meet you For the next few days. Or whenever, wherever I walk, I get stopped by neighbors.

1 (6m 38s):
Your friends at other people in the neighborhood have noticed the billionaire and his parking space. It becomes a magnet for their stories about run-ins with the neighbors, security guards and Ailes building. When they had their annual meeting, there were people who he's known for 10 years.

2 (6m 52s):
And I got like an applause there that were like, how did you do it? And one older neighbor was like, I've been trying to fight them for years because I was so upset about it. He doesn't even have a car, but just, you know, whenever he passes it, he was like getting upset about it.

1 (7m 17s):
If you're talking to a yo, I reached out to know goddess God spokesperson, no I'm goddess. Men agreed to talk to me that he didn't want me to record. When we got on the phone, he told me he totally understood why people got so upset at a y'all's story. But he said, Hey, y'all is wrong about the most basic fact in the story. And y'all thinks it's illegal to park in that space. And he thinks he only got a ticket because he was targeted by Noam security guards. Now I'm God has been said that nobody can park there. That when he built his house, the curb was already cut low for a driveway, had been that way for decades and he'd left it that way. And the department of buildings approved it as a loading bay and driveway. And he says they do load and unload stuff into his house through a massive door there.

1 (7m 59s):
Like I said, he's a big art collector because it is approved by the city for this purpose. No, I'm sad. It is not legal to park there. Same as other driveways and loading bays in the neighborhood. He says other cars have gotten tickets there. And in fact, he doesn't park there in front of his own home because he's gotten a ticket there. There was so many years ago, I'm like, yo, it didn't have a copy. He could show me. He says he pays to park in the garage. Or he finds a parking space and then walks home like all the non billionaires in the neighborhood do I'm paraphrasing here. He didn't actually call anybody a non billionaire in our conversations. But checking into it, I learned he's right. The space in front of Noam's house was in fact not illegal parking space.

1 (8m 43s):
Y'all's ticket was legit. I will note to, could seem very rare for that spot, but he's told us they haven't issued one this whole year and no one says he's never heard of anybody else being towed from that spot. Besides the AO today, I had to guess, I would guess that after a half dozen arguments with Dow, no I'm security guards were fed up with him and called over a Franklin cop to write a ticket and called the towing company. When I suggested this to know him, he categorically denied. It said he did not arrange for that to happen. That he has to security guards. They said they didn't do it either though the towing company did tell the daily news that someone phoned from Noam's house to ask for a y'all's car to be towed.

1 (9m 27s):
When I later asked no I'm spokesperson, why they would say that it was not true. She said she had no idea. Y'all meanwhile, it doesn't buy. It does. There's no way he would've been told with that. Noam's guards making it happen. Does the city shouldn't have approved this, his driveway in the first place, because it's not really a driveway in any normal sense of the word. But even though he thinks is in the right,

2 (9m 52s):
I didn't park a gun in that spot since it happened. I I'm sometimes tempted when I, and then I'm like, I don't want to go to mass Beth again. And this is where the, you know, the bullying sometimes works.

1 (10m 13s):
Leyanna show one. Man's bullying is another, man's simple adherence to New York parking. It's hard being neighbors and things get angry or ugly or seem unfair. It's like everybody is just stuck with each other. You know, it's hard to move away and waist for quitters today. We have a story of a very different group of neighbors in a very different place. The man moves in who breaks all kinds of rules and the neighbors have to figure out what to do about it. And nobody backs down WBZ, Chicago. It's this American life Amera glass stay with us At home, home near the range.

1 (11m 1s):
So when you're about to hear takes place, not in a city, but in a small town in Vermont, Paulette, Vermont think Rowan green Hills, red barns, and pretty peaceful until a stranger comes to town by zips Mayan, the neighbors. Aren't exactly sure what to make of this guy. And then problems start and things escalate in a pretty serious and intense way. Partly because this new guy, not only does he not play by the rules. In fact, he seems to feed off breaking them. This story's going to be the rest of our show today or putting my gig. Well, that's what happened.

4 (11m 34s):
It all started with a gate, a man named Daniel banya, but a wooded 30 acre property between some farmland and a slate quarry. Back in 2013, the neighbors didn't see much of him for awhile. They noticed construction vehicles rumbling up and down the road. And they figured he was building a house. Mandy Hewlett and her husband own a farm next to Daniel's property. Here's Mandy,

5 (11m 57s):
A good friend of ours used to own that property. And he sold the property to him. And the very first time we met him, he came down to the farm and he was actually, he was okay, but the next thing we knew, it was like two weeks later, he was erecting a gate on our property.

4 (12m 24s):
Daniel's land is actually surrounded by other people's property. It's kind of like an island. So in order to access it, he has the right to cross the Hewlett's land. There's a long driveway. Daniel put a gate at his end of it, but his gate was on the Hewlett's property, Mandy and Richard in their forties. They have two kids. They own a lot of farmland and a trucking company. Rich grew up there. His family's been in the area since before the civil war.

5 (12m 50s):
So rich approached him and said, you do know that you put your gate like know 10 feet onto our property. And he's like, I'll put my gate wherever I want to put my gate. And Richard said, well, in Vermont, we know we put our gate on her own property or like on the property line, not on somebody else's property. And you know, you have, I think he gave him two or three weeks to remove it. If you don't, I'm going to come remove it. And he's like, you're never going to get it, get that out of the ground. So he gave him like two or three weeks and he didn't move it. So rich went up with the payloader and brought a witness with him as well, and just picked it up off, out of the ground and tossed it onto his property back onto his own property.

4 (13m 39s):
So things were off to a bad start. Daniel was a newcomer to the area. He was from upstate New York. But other than that, he was guarded about his background. He told one neighbor he'd done in the army. Then there was a rumor around town that he'd been a Navy seal or federal agent or something. It wasn't clear. And just a word about the place he'd moved to this part of pallette. It's a bit isolated up on a hill there about a dozen households, all spread out long. Couple of roads there. The Hewlett's John Davis, Vietnam vet and his wife, Val, then down the hill as Beth through Kat, a former librarian and her husband, Ray, Paul, Michelle to Lander or grandparents who moved to the area about 10 years ago, people were pretty private here, but they help each other out.

4 (14m 23s):
This is Ray and Michelle who lives one house down from him.

6 (14m 26s):
Paul, Michelle moved in next door to me. I love this. I told him no, he's going to say, do you ever have an emergency call me first then call nine one one because the cops won't show up. Yeah, I will. And that's the way we roll around here.

4 (14m 45s):
Most of them came here for the landscape and the quiet. And then one day the woods erupted with gunfire, hundreds and hundreds of rounds. This is Beth Moser. Dukette the former librarian. I mean,

7 (14m 58s):
Just shooting like on a daily basis, like de de de de de de de de de de de,

4 (15m 5s):
I want to point out, Paula is not a gunshot town. Beth told me that gunfire is the sound of Vermont. She's a longtime NRA member. The areas mixed politically. Some of the neighbors voted for Trump. Others went for Biden, but none of them has a problem with firearms. Farmers have their varmint, guns and hunters have their rifles. And no one bats, an eye at a neighbor doing some practice with an AR 15. This was different.

8 (15m 30s):
We didn't know what was going on. We were like, wait, it sounds like Vietnam.

4 (15m 35s):
This is Michelle to Lander. The grandmother who lives with her husband, Paul

8 (15m 38s):
Here in Vermont. You expect to hear somebody out there plunking away at their targets, getting ready for Turkey season or hunting season or, or just keeping their, their firearms into them. We do that. That's expected, but not what we heard that was totally out of the zone. Did you, did you

4 (15m 57s):
Try to approach him at that

8 (15m 58s):
Point? No. At that point I was too afraid to approach anybody that was firing that much weaponry because that that's just not, that's not, Dormal certainly for this area. I don't think I would want to approach anybody that was firing off, you know, thousand rounds. That's scary.

4 (16m 23s):
Daniel had opened up a gun range. John Davis, the Vietnam vet was ticked off about it by a friend. John got in his truck and drove up and down the hill, knocking on doors to alert everyone. He told me it was like Paul Revere's ride, Mandy Hewlett and another neighbor walk the property line around Daniel's place. They peered through the trees and saw some silhouette targets and dirt berms. Mandy, worried that someone would end up shooting towards the road.

5 (16m 48s):
The trajectory of those bullets is like actually write to my brother-in-law's house and then right to the school, right over the head,

4 (16m 56s):
The neighbors did not want a shooting range in their backyard. Daniel had filed for a permit not to open a shooting range, but for what he called a school, apparently where he would do classroom firearms instruction in order to build the school on his property, Daniel needed permission to widen his driveway through the neighbor's land. So we asked the Hewlett, if they would give him the extra space, Hewlett said, no, his neighbors on the other side said no as well. Daniel's permit application for school was denied, but he'd already put up the building and he just kept going. He also didn't have the right permit to operate a shooting range on his land. But of course he was doing that too. What he was developing was a sprawling facility.

4 (17m 37s):
The kind that military contractors or law enforcement or a self-styled militia might use, he called it slate Ridge. I reached out to Daniel. He didn't want to be interviewed, but he lays the whole thing out in this YouTube video

9 (17m 51s):
Slate Ridge is 100% predicated on the practitioner model. Gunfighters professionals that use the firearm as a tool in the line of their employment.

4 (18m 2s):
Daniel's six feet tall and stout with a bushy beard. That's how he talks lots of jargon. So the video was shot by a dude named Adam McLean, who associates himself with the Boogaloo boys in our movement. That calls for civil war. His Twitter handle is Pooja Dean.

9 (18m 20s):
This is range one. This is, this is what started slate Ridge, right? I built this first and I, you know, continue to proceed, you know, to proceed on my dream.

4 (18m 31s):
He shows Adam the scores and a surprisingly fancy bunk house and two shooting ranges. One with the wraparound berm, that's intended to let people fire in multiple directions to more closely mirror, real life combat. There's a spot where people can practice entering and clearing a building in a place where they can detonate explosives after the tour, Daniel and Adam sit down for an interview.

9 (18m 54s):
So, so you're a private contractor is how long were you a private contractor for, for several years? Several years. Yes.

4 (19m 3s):
The video Daniel was wearing green military style, cargo pants and green wraparound shades. He tells Adam the origin story of slate Ridge. He says the idea came to him on his first overseas deployment as a private military contractor.

9 (19m 15s):
You know, I remember that day, like it was just yesterday. I bumped up with about 12 guys that I had no idea who they were. I didn't know much about them. You know, you know, I, I tried out with these guys. I made it on the team and then we get, we get there, right? We're out of the United States of America and we're, we're in it. And that night when we hit our bunks, I watched with all due respect because some of those guys I've become very good friends with some of those guys are my battle buddies now. And some of those guys, you know, I would bleed for them, but a lot of them turned into a totally different person here. We had men crying, shivering, and second guessing themselves.

9 (19m 56s):
And I sat there and I watched these men and I said, wow, what did I get myself into?

4 (20m 3s):
The problem was they weren't properly trained. So we decided to start his own training facility. He tells Adam, he put $1.6 million of his own money into building the place to Daniel slate. Rich is more than the shooting range. It's a place where people who define themselves by owning guns, he refers to himself as a professional gunfighter,

9 (20m 22s):
You know, in the military, we had the three, M's the mission, the men and me, I'm always at the last,

4 (20m 28s):
I'm an army guy. He tells Adam Daniel talks about his service a lot at one time, meaning where he made his case for the school building. He described himself as a veteran, who's passionate about guns. He paints his work as a private contractor in patriotic terms in court. He tells the state judge

10 (20m 47s):
There like that is that within 30 days, that will be out of the country. So I'm not sure I'm waiting for the deployment orders to come in and they'd be a few months.

11 (20m 58s):
Okay. All right. Well please, please be safe in those travels. Okay. And thank you for your service, sir.

4 (21m 8s):
The neighbors wondered if even the most basic part of his biography that he'd been in the military was a lie. John Davis, the Vietnam vet. Wasn't sure he bought it.

12 (21m 17s):
If you're a veteran, there's nothing more disreputable than somebody claims to be something isn't. And I have no use for people that go around and act like they're something they aren't

4 (21m 40s):
After slate Ridge opened at the end of 2017, his Facebook page racked up a few thousand followers. Daniel started referring to them as the slate Ridge family. He hosted classes on shooting and tactical training and field first aid. The neighbors would see strangers driving up and down their shared dirt road. Sometimes the shooting will go on all weekend. The neighbors hadn't been all that close before. This started just friendly in that small town kind of way. But the conflict with Daniel brought them together. They started meeting and John Davis has workshop. Sometimes a couple of dozen people would show up. Their weapon of choice was as American as the Winchester rifle, zoning laws, those most basic rules for how neighbors are going to live next to one another.

4 (22m 23s):
This area was zoned residential and agricultural. Danny went back to the town and argued for a variance in the zoning laws. So we could finally get a permit for the school building 46 people signed a petition to posing this. They showed up at the town meeting in force. Here's Michelle.

8 (22m 40s):
You know, I thought maybe the town would step in and we would go to a couple of select board meetings. We thought for sure it would be brought into control. I'd say within six months,

4 (22m 53s):
There's no recording of the meeting where Daniel asked for the zoning variance, but there's official minutes. This kind of captures the feeling of it. Quote, Gary had to address the board as an abutting landowner, an interested party. Mr. <inaudible> explained that as an owner of a horse stable, they have a lot to lose that they do not want to live through a war and that they were there. First. He expressed that he wishes to stay on their property and is entitled to peace and quiet. But the town's zoning board decided in Daniel's favor. Instead he was right. He could have his zoning variance for the school building. The neighbors appealed for the next few years, he'd applied for permits. They tried to stop him. Sometimes they won.

4 (23m 33s):
Sometimes he won and they'd appeal to the town or the state court. Eventually the town of Paula took the neighbor's side and filed the case against Daniel to provide its zoning laws. But this kind of thing can move really slowly. Beth, the former librarian knew the state's environmental laws and looked for a way to use them against Daniel. She peered into his property from a neighbor's yard one day and notice what looked like wetlands. Those are often protected in Vermont, which is no small thing because the state can crack down on people for even small CME, environmental problems like manure,

7 (24m 6s):
You know, we're we're farmers. So we're allowed to spread manure from April 15th, we start to spread our manure. And December 15th is our cutoff. December 16th comes along and you spread agency of natural resources would be so quick here, like on a fly on you know what? And we'd be fine.

4 (24m 25s):
That's an environmentalist. She was on a local conservation board at the time she contacted the state's department of agriculture and the natural resources board, trying to get someone to investigate. Well, there was no quick response. Nobody stepped in to stop Daniel.

7 (24m 40s):
And it was all falling upon deaf ears. Who do we go to? Who do we tell? Who do we talk to?

4 (24m 46s):
Daniel fought back and not just in the town hall and the courts in the winter of 2019, the neighbors got holiday cards with the slate Ridge logo printed on them. Each one has a handwritten message. Here's Michelle, <inaudible> the grandmother and John Davis, the Paul Revere guy.

8 (25m 3s):
Yeah. Every, all of us in the neighborhood got one. And some of them were pretty

12 (25m 6s):
Pretty. I read mine. Yes you can.

4 (25m 9s):
I got together with a group of these neighbors on Beth's front lawn. She set out a table with muffins and Dunkin donuts coffee.

8 (25m 15s):
Let me see there's mine. Some of them are pretty filthy. So there's some, I'm not going to read, but there you go, John.

12 (25m 23s):
Oh yeah. This is Mr. And Mrs. Davis and our address AKA Davis crash from all of us at slate Ridge. We wanted to wish you two miserable souls, a wonderful holiday season. People hate you to inbreds. We are so fortunate. You are our neighbors. Please feel free to move away because no one likes alcoholics. Cause we, you know, we have a front portrait in the summer. After at the end of the day, we'll sit out there and have a beer. But this is, I mean, this is just typical. They're all like this. We're all in breads. We're all.

8 (26m 1s):
Did you want me to read yours? Absolutely. This is disgusting.

4 (26m 5s):
The cards are in these binders. The neighbors brought them to the meeting and this huge plastic bin, the kind you'd store you'll close in each label carefully with the label maker. There's Paula zoning regulations and slate Ridge, Facebook postings and odds and ends slash unfinished business. Please feel free to move. This was the moment I realized how much the conflict with Daniel had taken over the neighbor's lives. There's maybe 20 of these binders inside where all the pieces of information that the neighbors has spent the last few years obsessively documenting about Daniel in slate Ridge, Michelle what's, what's the say on the inside of this binder here.

8 (26m 44s):
So threats and postal cards, and then also some stocking problems here, but all the threats, everything, we try to keep it compiled.

4 (26m 56s):
I asked the neighbors where they keep the binders and they wouldn't tell me. They only say it was a remote locked facility. Here's Paul describing a Facebook post. They've gotten one of the binders. It was on the slate Ridge page,

13 (27m 9s):
A picture of our house. And he captioned it any day above ground is, is a good day. These people will be leaving soon.

4 (27m 18s):
How'd you feel when that happened? And this is John Davis again, John and his wife moved to Paul at 43 years ago in large part because his PTSD was so bad. When he came back from Vietnam, he wanted the quiet,

12 (27m 32s):
My wife and I were down in visiting my sister for about three days. And he posted on his website that the Davis's are away. And then he, some of his disciples posted all really they're away. So we cut our visit short liters

4 (27m 48s):
Last fall, the slate, rich Facebook account, posted a photo of an SUV and said they were looking for one like it to use for something called vehicle assault class, where the vehicle will be shot and then blown up the SUV. And the post was the exact same make model and color. As an SUV, the Hewlett's daughter had recently bought another time. The account posted a video

14 (28m 11s):
And gentlemen, this is a nine millimeter full metal jacket, 115 grain bullet.

4 (28m 21s):
While Daniel narrates, the video shows a closeup of a bronze bullet, then pans to the driver's side of a silver car.

14 (28m 28s):
I went through this door, through the car.

4 (28m 35s):
The door has been shot through multiple times, right? For someone has written the words are Hewitt trucking on it. That's the name of one of the businesses, the Hewlett's own.

14 (28m 44s):
So if you think that you can hide in your car, have you safe behind the door from a bullet you're wrong,

4 (28m 52s):
Mandy, who would eventually got a no stalking order against Daniel and the slate rich Facebook page is down now, but the neighbors say it was not just threats, but accusations, smears, and that slate rich supporters, but then like, and comment on the posts.

8 (29m 6s):
It's just a threatened it's idle threats. And it's, it's just once again, psychological warfare, one of his knuckleheads that's been going up there, takes it a different way and takes it to another level. Yes,

4 (29m 20s):
They worried about Daniel's supporters. A few of the people training at slate Ridge suggested online that they were affiliated with national Milton groups, like the three percenters or a small local outfit with a grandiose name of the Vermont state militia. Some of the neighbors did go to the police, but none of the things that Daniel and his supporters were doing seemed likely to bring criminal charges. It can be really to prosecute threats like these, unless they're very specific. Daniel didn't just go after the neighbors, he made it sound like the town itself was conspiring against him. They were all in league with the Hewitts, who he saw as his main opposition. Here. He is at one town meeting, accusing the board of treating him unfairly.

9 (30m 4s):
I believe Mr. Bob Jones has a conflict of interest and has suppressed my rights and my existence in this community on three facts.

4 (30m 11s):
Daniel points out that Jones, a board member has worked for the trucking company owned by the Hewlett family. Then he pivots to a different and very surprising attack.

9 (30m 22s):
Furthermore, this man has attended a plan meeting by the group.

4 (30m 26s):
The meeting he's talking about is one of the ones the neighbors held to strategize about shutting down Daniel and slate Ridge. But Daniel was calling it a clan meeting as in the KU Klux Klan, like he's saying, the neighbors are the KKK. This is part of a long running and completely unsubstantiated claim of his. That pallette is somehow run by white supremacists.

9 (30m 49s):
You think it's funny? You think it's funny and also had proceeded when the Hewlett family took my gate down on my property, how was that legal for him to be here and to vote and not recuse and not have a misconduct Mr. Cleveland, you left to the first six months of this opposition here, your son, Kenneth was dating and Hewlett. How can we not believe she didn't tell your son to tell you rhetoric to vote against me or diminished or sequester my rights in this community. You have to have clam meeting too.

15 (31m 22s):
I didn't go to any clan meeting. Let me tell you the

9 (31m 24s):
Meeting, you went to, whatever the verbiage is, you were not supposed to be there.

15 (31m 30s):
It's as simple as I believe I went to the very first meeting they had and that was to collect information. Okay.

9 (31m 37s):
You're not which I did. You're not supposed to be doing

15 (31m 40s):
That. Okay. And I, furthermore, I don't think my anyhow, I don't think my, I don't think you need to drag my son into it.

9 (31m 46s):
Exactly. I said, but it's not ethical. You need to recuse yourself. You cannot allow these degenerates to start making things against me in this town. And then you vote on it.

15 (31m 56s):
I think so. I think, I think this is before this gets out of control. It's already, as far as

4 (32m 8s):
Daniel ramped up as a tax in the town, one post on the slate, rich Facebook page included a picture of Paul it's town hall and said, quote, no alarm, no security camera, single pane windows, no deadbolts, 30 to 40 minutes. Police response, time, dead zone for all cell service, no safe room. People wrote in the comments that it was a soft target and noted. The women on staff often worked late and other posts or supporters to assemble at a town meeting with weapons and trauma kits though. None of them actually up there were other problems too. In 2018, Daniel was banned from pace university where he'd been studying for a master's degree in Homeland security.

4 (32m 50s):
He'd allegedly sent a Dean death threats over text message that led to a judge's order, suspending his pistol permit in New York and requiring Daniel to surrender his firearms. When police searched his house, they found a handgun which led prosecutors in New York to charge him with two felonies for criminal possession. Those are not resolved yet. According to a prosecutor, majority of Daniel's pistols were transferred out of state, presumably to Vermont Up on the hill. And that the conflict was threatening. The spiral assigned, posted on Daniel's property. Red trespass here die here.

4 (33m 30s):
One night, two boys were bow hunting on the Hewlett's property. Here's what happened next. According to allegations made to police, they shot a deer and tracks to Daniel's land. As they approached, Daniel came down and threatened them. One boy called his dad. Things escalated. When Daniel asked them to identify themselves, they refused. And then Daniel said, okay, you want to play that game? I'll shoot you. Nobody got hurt in the end. Daniel disputed that he threatened anyone. No charges were filed

1 (34m 12s):
Coming up to put in my giggling. Oh, it looks into Daniel's background to try to figure out who Daniel really is and just how worried the neighbors should be. That's in a minute, Chicago public radio. When our program continues

16 (34m 26s):
Streams, Joe time and paramount plus together for just 9 99 a month for a limited time, watch it all. Star-studded movies, live sports and groundbreaking originals from the shy in billions to the Palm patrol movie and star Trek discovery. Plus the NFL Showtime championship boxing UA, and more it's everything you want now together. Get the bundle and save paramount plus and Showtime sign up now@paramountplus.com slash Showtime bundle

0 (34m 56s):
Support for this American life comes from 3m committed to protecting healthcare workers globally. 3m employee. Chris knows that healthcare workers like his daughter may need to get up close to provide patient care. He's working hard to direct high-performing personal protective equipment to hospitals in hotspots. So she and nurses like her can be protected while caring for their patients. Hear their story at 3m.com/improving lives. 3m science applied to life.

1 (35m 27s):
This is American life. Myra glass today's program. Don't you be? My neighbor would abetting most of the hour today to the story of Paulette Vermont. And what happened when one new person moved in and this next part of the story I put in my giggly old tries to answer the questions that lots of people in town had about their new neighbor.

4 (35m 45s):
Here's Mike. I started writing about militia groups and civil violence last year. Ever since I've been getting emails from people who were afraid of their neighbors, there was a Tennessee woman who suspected that hers were getting ready for quote, a blood bath, a Michigan man who asked me if he should report a high school friend to authorities because of his Facebook posts. People wanted me to help them figure out how dangerous was their neighbor. That was how I heard about slate Ridge and Daniel, someone who lives in your pocket sent me a message asking if I might want to investigate, you can drive yourself crazy these days. Wondering if everyone threatening violence is serious or only trolling. When I was interviewing people in militia groups last year, for example, often had the feeling that it was all just posturing, that all their talk about civil violence was just a mask for other anxieties.

4 (36m 34s):
Then some people affiliated with these groups, according to the FBI, at least to part in the attack on the U S Capitol people can seem like they're not really serious until they are Daniel Bonnie's neighbors don't know how scared they should be. Even like how Mandy Hewitt said in one moment that he's probably just full of hot air, but also has that no stalking order against him. And she wrote a Facebook post saying she wanted people to know about Daniel's threats in case anything ever happened to her. And for all the research into Daniel in the end, the neighbors really don't know that much about his background. I spoke on the phone with him a couple of times, but he wouldn't let me record him. And he was the face of about almost every question I asked.

4 (37m 16s):
I spoke to the head of public safety in Vermont, the major from the state police, who with their point person for Daniel and someone from the Vermont intelligence center, an agency that coordinates between local and federal law enforcement. I haven't sent his YouTube video with Adam, the Boogaloo guy to a recently retired agent from the FBI. But in the end, the person who knew the most about Daniel was his ex wife, Gina, my heart Daniels. They met in 1992 when she was 16 and he was 19

17 (37m 45s):
Well mall. There's a pizzeria called Roman delight. And Dan was the pizza man there.

4 (37m 52s):
You said pizza, man. You mean w what was his job?

17 (37m 55s):
Literally the pizza man. He was the guy that was making the pies.

4 (37m 59s):
Gina told me she and Daniel both grew up in upstate New York. He had half siblings. He didn't really talk about, he was close with his dad who died before they met Daniel. Eventually quit his job at the pizza shop and enrolled at the culinary Institute of America. But he dropped out right before he finished. He had a job running restaurants for a bit. Gina got pregnant and soon after Daniel decided to join the army.

17 (38m 24s):
And so I thought that was a great idea. Good. You know, that's, that's good. We're kind of setting ourselves up. We're a young family, you know, good idea. So he gets sworn in, he leaves for training and calls me like a few days in to let me know that they found cysts on his neck and that he was going to be coming home with a medical discharge. So pretty much two weeks to the day that I dropped him off at the airport, I was picking him up again because he had been discharged from the army for supposedly these cysts that he never like did anything about supposedly a medical discharge?

17 (39m 4s):
I honestly don't know if that was the truth or if that was not the truth, but he was not in the army.

4 (39m 12s):
The national personnel records center confirmed that Daniel's time in the army lasted all of two weeks. What was the need? And Warren joined the military.

17 (39m 19s):
Honestly, it was like security. Just strictly financial security. Like not because he had any sort of like calling to do so, or sense of duty or nothing like that. Literally just like, oh, they'll provide us with a house to live in money, security, health insurance, that sort of thing.

4 (39m 42s):
Was he patriotic at all? Your

17 (39m 44s):
Not particularly now

4 (39m 47s):
In talking with people close to Daniel, I got the sense that he didn't believe in anything very strongly. He's not an idealogue. He's not really a militia type. Those guys will go on for hours about the constitution. But he does like to present himself as someone with a mysterious past, maybe even a dangerous one. From the time he met Gina at the pizza shop, she told me he was suggesting he was connected with the mafia. Like when John Gotti died in 2002, Daniel said he was distraught that he had to go to the funeral. She says he didn't go. And then there's their son.

18 (40m 20s):
I'm <inaudible> Luciano. Banya I know you can't see me, but I'm doing the Italian hand. You know, you put all your fingers together, pointing at the sky. You know, I find that that helps people with my name, but yeah, <inaudible> Luciano banya

4 (40m 33s):
If you're trying to remember what movie, the name of them bodies from where you've heard it before you haven't, there's only one gun brownie. Is it like a, is it always been like a point of like discussion with people? Like,

18 (40m 45s):
Oh yeah. Well, I just tell him my dad made it up, but I actually, I, I tell them, I say, hi, my name is <inaudible> and they go, oh, gum. Right? I said, yeah, it's my real name. It's a fake name, but it's, it's my name. Like, you know, it's not a real name. I'm the only one, but it's my name. You know,

17 (41m 6s):
When I was pregnant, we were talking about names and he was like, ah, you know, I want to name him, you know, something strong and you know, I'm going to name him <inaudible> and I'm like, oh God, no, absolutely not. Like, seriously, that's horrendous. We're not going to name him that. And he's like, no, no, no, listen, listen, you know, that was somebody from my past. And you know, somebody, I can't really talk about it, but somebody who was like, you know, really important to me, he was kind of like a father figure. And so I acquiesced at that point, like, all right, fine. You know, this is a namesake, this is something that's really important to you. Fine. And you know, later on, in years it was like, came up in conversation, you know? Like I think, I think someone was asking us together. And then he was like, oh no, I made that up.

17 (41m 47s):
I was like, are you serious? You made that up. You told me that was on. No, no, no, no, no, no. And yeah, it's like, it's a cool name. I just needed you to be on board. Like you. Yeah. I was not happy.

4 (42m 0s):
What was the mafia thing? Like kinda, was it important to his presentation?

17 (42m 6s):
It was honestly. I mean, he, he needs to be the toughest guy in the room.

4 (42m 16s):
After he was discharged from the army. Daniel eventually started a landscaping business. He called it two Tiano Bergantino excavation, also fake words. He had an act for landscaping. I actually found an old article about him winning an award for Stonewall preservation. But his record includes at least a dozen court cases. People he owed money to, he never paid the car repossession, a mortgage default. In 2006, he pled guilty to making a fake workman's comp claim. The landscaping business filed for bankruptcy in 2011, Gina said Daniel was abusive. She said he hit her multiple times. She said she didn't file police reports about it, but told her therapist and her best friend who both confirmed this once they were arguing in the car and Daniel reached over and bashed her head against the window and brought, he was there.

4 (43m 7s):
He says he remembers that. And then there were periods when things would be okay. It could be hard for even his own family to know what to make of him. Daniel and <inaudible>, didn't speak for several years. They reconnected when the body was 18, Daniel had an entirely new persona.

18 (43m 24s):
He was just different. He had a different way of carrying himself. He seemed more military lifestyle. Then he was like, you know, oh yeah, I'm I'm executive protection security, you know? And I asked him to explain it. And I was like, so like you're a security guard or like a, like a contractor. And he was like, th th the exact words, this is cause it's such a stupid statement. I remember it. He says, oh, I escorted essential. And non-essential personnel through the theater of battle. And I was like, oh, okay, cool. And then like, I remember him saying it. I remember him saying it to other people

4 (44m 1s):
As for Daniel's claim that he's a private military contractor. He did start a security company called Garmin dynamics in 2014 with a guy named Ian Spurgeon, a former officer in the Swedish military, the two of them met at an executive protection training course. Denmark Ian said at the training, Daniel really impressed him. He said, it looked like he had real experience. Did he say he had what? Andy tell us the work like had been overseas had abandoned high stress environments. Like anything like that? Yeah. He said he had a overseas contracts

19 (44m 31s):
And with us government and also with the private sector. And again, from my background, I'm prone not to ask a questions because really it's, if it's not my need to know that I'm really don't ask any questions.

4 (44m 50s):
The idea was that GOM dynamics would do security contracting and train people in military tactics. The Garmin website had seals from the department of Homeland security and other government agencies on it. But Ian told me that they never actually worked for any of them. He said Daniel had assured him, it was okay to use the Lobos. The website also said the company was established and facilitated by elite, military and government personnel. Was there

20 (45m 14s):
Anyone else that was like elite, military and government personnel besides

19 (45m 18s):
No, we, we, it was only the two almost, but I don't know how we like how we add that button. But again, you know, we're in enhancing the marketability of the, of the company,

20 (45m 34s):
But you said you have a moat, you have multi-faceted teams of industry experts, forensic analysts, intelligence experts on the ground. Sources provide intelligence and risk assessment. Is that also just like marketing basically. Okay. And then there's like a picture of like, this is the one thing there's like a picture of these dudes and like a helicopter and their faces are blurred out.

19 (45m 56s):
Yeah. I, I that's like a stock photo. I think it is

4 (46m 0s):
Inside Garmin. Never got any contracts, never did any trainings. At least when he was there, eventually Daniel seemed to be getting sucked more and more into his problems up in Vermont. And the company died. Daniel also registered a second company that is still active, but I could find only one person on LinkedIn who said he'd worked there. And when I messaged him about this, he deleted it from his profile. It's hard to say for sure, if Daniel ever did work, it's private military contractor, or if he did, whether it really entailed dodging bullets in Iraq, as he wants claim to me, you can't check that kind of thing. Through public records, requests and people who do private contractor work also usually have to sign non-disclosure agreements. The other work Daniel says he's done and executive protection, which is the business of guarding the rich and famous.

4 (46m 44s):
We were able to confirm one aspect of this. Daniel worked for a time on a detailed protecting venture PIRO, conservative commentator, though. He was ultimately fired from that job. I spoke with a few people who consider themselves part of the slate, rich family. They see a totally different version of Daniel and the neighbors do Samantha. Shumway is one of the co-founders of the Vermont state militia. She says they're survivalists. They're a pretty small group, about 10 members. The train once a month. She's 32 has four kids who called Daniel uncle Daniel.

4 (47m 26s):
She told me he's not dangerous at all. He's just someone who wants to share his knowledge about guns. He taught them all firearm safety, she and the other militia members drive about two hours to get to slate Ridge. Even though there are much closer ranges because the facility is so nice. And because Daniel was a warm and welcoming, she doesn't believe the neighbors are really as scared as they say. She thinks they're exaggerating their fears because they don't want a noisy shooting range in their neighborhood. And they're afraid of change. They haven't even met us. She told me, she did think the Facebook threats were over the line. After the Hewlett trucking video, she and some others in the slate, rich family told Daniel he needed to stop. It was all part of what she called a battle between neighbors, which she didn't see how it could end at this point.

4 (48m 10s):
But the thing she was more worried about was the government taking Daniel's land. It's a piece of him. She told me In any community, there are basic rules and laws. We agree to live by. It's how we're able to coexist. But in Paulette, Daniel was clearly not participating all that. And the state agencies that are meant to enforce those rules, don't seem to be able to do anything about it. It's like he's managed to outmaneuver them simply by creating chaos. For instance, with the state's natural resources board, Daniel might be in violation of a Vermont land use law, but they need to prove that he's running a business.

4 (48m 56s):
He says, he's not, everything is slate. Ridge is free. And so far the natural resources board hasn't been able to prove otherwise and take those cases in New York. One of them is a restraining order against him, which required him to surrender his firearms. I asked law enforcement authorities in Vermont about this. Could they enforce new York's order go and sees his guns and said, yes, they could. But here's the irony. Even though the neighbors have been hearing all that shooting for so long, even though Daniel talks about all the weapons he has, there's no hard proof that he currently has any in his possession. If you look at his Facebook posts, photos, videos, he never appears with a gun for a while.

4 (49m 40s):
Now, some of the neighbors have had this feeling that's new to them, that the system is failing them. That the protection that they thought it provided, isn't actually there. I think this can create a special kind of anxiety and it's led them to take things into their own hands.

7 (49m 56s):
This is my Kevlar vest. So

4 (49m 57s):
This is, this is underneath your bedroom window, Beth. Show me around her house. She and Ray have weapons hidden everywhere just in case.

7 (50m 6s):
This is my favorite weapon,

4 (50m 9s):
Shotgun leaned against the window. So,

7 (50m 12s):
And this is my 2 43. Can

4 (50m 15s):
You describe it to me?

7 (50m 16s):
My beautiful camouflage, 2 43. I bought on a whim because it was pretty, it's got a high-powered scope. It's camouflage pretty pink because I'm a girl and I've got 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 clips of 2 43 bullets that are already locked and loaded two years ago. I would've never, it only takes one bullet to kill a deer. Why do you think I have all these to protect my family? And these are my family. My neighbors are my family. So banya has family. We have family too. Okay.

4 (50m 52s):
Are there other, like, you know, ammo and gun spots in the house? Tactically placed.

7 (50m 58s):
You can see a couple over there. I spy with my little eye.

4 (51m 1s):
Oh, wow. It's just behind the bedroom door.

7 (51m 5s):
Oh, you saw the 30, 30 in the bathroom. I did

4 (51m 7s):
Not. I guess I wasn't being observant. I'm starting to lose count of how many guns she showed me. It's great. So, but you really, you have like a gun that seems, I think you forgot some of them, but they're like, they're there, there there's one. Just like they're like Easter eggs all over the house.

7 (51m 21s):
Yes. And that happens to be my favorite holiday. So that's okay.

4 (51m 25s):
Why in the bathroom?

7 (51m 27s):
Well, what if I want to get caught off guard? You know the saying it's near the back door. Okay. So if you had to run in and grab one, you know?

4 (51m 40s):
Yeah. It's Landers, comfortable country home has a warp Norman Rockwell fuel. Now they've stockpiled weapons around their house too. There's a loaded handgun in the cookie cabinet. And then he's got it. The first thing Paul does every morning is search for new posts from slate Ridge, say 50, 60 feet into Landers, moved to Paul at a decade ago, they plan to retirement of gardening, enjoying the views. Instead Michelle looks out her kitchen window and imagined Daniel or his supporters creeping through the woods, lying down in hydro and aiming their guns into the house.

8 (52m 11s):
You know, his Facebook has posted pictures of his cronies with their ARS in their cammo and all that walking through the woods.

4 (52m 24s):
But do you imagine like someone coming down the road here, like where it's so close or

13 (52m 28s):
Yeah, no. I think they would come through the field. You're pointing out the back window here, back the back window. I think they, I think they'd come through the field to avoid being seen. There's a fair amount of traffic on this road.

8 (52m 41s):
You can come up that back that by the Creek there with, with land drops away, walk right up and just lay down in that hedge row. Here we are. This is what we spend most of our time. Yeah. That's what we live with now, you know, is that, I don't know how many times I've come to this sink looked out this window, pulled the blinds and said, it'd be, if someone's gonna shoot me, they're gonna shoot me. We're you know, we're older now. So we kind of accept that our days are numbered. I'm not afraid of that. I've had a great life, but I'm still, I still get grandkids. I want to see, you know, grow up married.

8 (53m 25s):
So we try to protect ourselves as best we can.

4 (53m 29s):
Paul has an AR 15, most homeowners use bullets with hollow points, which stopped when they hit a target so that they won't keep on traveling and hit a bystander or a

13 (53m 38s):
Neighbor 2 23. So Paul's

4 (53m 40s):
Gun is loaded with solid points. What why'd you go for the solid rather than

13 (53m 45s):
Well, normally I would prefer a hollow point if I had to shoot environment outside, but these people up the road here, they all wear armor plated, a vest with metal, metal plates in them too. And the penetrating power of a hollow point is much less than a solid point. So I don't, I don't like the idea of having to be prepared for this, but I think we have to,

4 (54m 29s):
Something did happen from neighbors recently. It actually looks like slate. Ridge might get shut down and do you know, what did it, it wasn't the governor or the attorney general or the ATF or the state's natural resources board or the state police. It was a tiny town in Paulette. There's only, Kate's finally worked its way through the courts. And after years of delays in March, a state superior court upheld the town's zoning laws and ruled against Daniel. The neighbors say the shooting has stopped for the most part, but they still hear construction noise from time to time, they think he's building another two ranges. The judge ordered Daniel to dismantle the buildings of slate Ridge and pay a hundred dollars for each day.

4 (55m 10s):
He hasn't fixed his zoning violations, which came to $46,600 in his ruling. He detailed how Daniel has refused to comply with the town since 2017, he wrote quote, Mr. His record of compliance has been horrendous. Daniel has appealed the ruling. Of course, this could still drag on for a bit. And there's one thing that won't change. Even if the range gets shut down, even if the buildings get knocked down, Daniel will still own that land. And Paul, Michelle, and everyone else up on the hill, we're not

8 (55m 45s):
Moving and we're not quitting.

13 (55m 50s):
Yeah, I agree with that.

4 (55m 52s):
So for now, at least they're also going to be neighbors.

1 (56m 5s):
Mike Giglio would also like to give a shout out to the local press in Vermont, which has done a great job covering all this VT Digger, Vermont public radio, and the Manchester journal.

21 (56m 16s):
I always locked the door cause you never know for sure, really suspicion and the California sky, but I couldn't feel the sunny disposition

1 (56m 34s):
Today's program was produced by Ari Safferstein and Diane. Woo it's. Actually our last week is production fellow here at our show, our first and hopefully last all remote production fellow. And he's done such a great job today's episode. A good example of that. The people who put together today's episode include the amount of wound meat on the baker. Ben Calhoun, Zoe chase, Shawn Colden and Chivas Damien grave, Seth LAN Raymar lockers, Stowe Nelson, Nadia, Raymond, Larry stir Chesky, Christopher. So Tala Matt Tierney, Julie Whittaker, and Chloe Weiner editorial assistants on today's show from Leesa Fu our managing editor, Sarah Abdurrahman senior editor, David Kestenbaum, our executive editors, Emmanuel Barry, especially. Thanks David it's Steven Rex brown of the New York daily news for help with our story about the billionaire and the parking space.

1 (57m 14s):
Thanks also to chase Bauer, Otis gray, Jesse King, Jeanne Fidel, Aaron Glantz, Alain Stephens, Tom O'Connor of fed squared consulting, Miriam Kleiman and Ingrid Jonas, our website, this American life.org, where you can stream our archive of over 700 episodes for absolutely free. Also, there are videos. There are lists of favorite shows for your summer road trip, listening, tons of other stuff there too. Again, this American life.org, this American life is a little bit of public radio stations by PRX. The public radio exchange X is always your programs. Co-founder Mr. Troy. <inaudible> you know, he told me he could sum up any movie in nine words or fewer as like, okay, big Lebowski go.

1 (57m 55s):
Yeah.

2 (57m 55s):
Rich guy and man, and a car being towed.

1 (58m 1s):
Right. It's stolen and crash then towed. But I'm pretty good. I'm Myra glass back next week with more stories of this American life.