0 (1s):
A quick warning. There are curse words that are under beeped in today's episode of the show. If you prefer a beeped version, you can find that at our website, this American life.org

1 (12s):
From WBZ, Chicago, it's this American life. I'm kind of, Joffey Walt sitting in for IRA glass. I've been talking to people lately about their jobs. Something is going on with jobs right now. People are leaving them. They want to leave them where we do our jobs is changing what we do. And I've been especially interested in people who are designated essential workers. I think for the stay at home types, people like me, our jobs changed in very obvious ways, but for people who continued to go to work in person, their jobs changed too. But those changes were sometimes less visible. For example, Carrie Breen, he's a carpenter works for the New York city department of education, fixing things in schools spring last year, when all the schools shut down for COVID Carrie, wasn't sure what that meant for him until he heard.

1 (1m 4s):
No, no, no. He should still come in report to work.

2 (1m 7s):
Well, the fact that they deemed as essential, I kind of found it a little comical in the beginning, that door creaked for years, that Flores Creek for years, all of a sudden today it's an emergency or it's essential.

1 (1m 21s):
It's not like he was a doctor or a grocery store worker.

2 (1m 24s):
Most of our work is repairing floors, doors, ceilings that are down bathrooms, falling apart.

1 (1m 31s):
Do you have a favorite sort of task? Like on Monday morning, if you get assigned doors or you're like, Ugh, more doors or is there one that you really liked?

2 (1m 39s):
I wouldn't say there's a favorite. My favorite is when the building has an elevator because you'll get tours on the fifth floor of a building and you've got to carry doors away, potentially a couple of hundred pounds up. And then back down,

1 (1m 52s):
Carrie is practical in this way. Carrie has been a carpenter for 35 years. He's also a volunteer firefighter. Irish talks about his kids a lot. So he's going to work and they're getting a lot done because there's no kids around

2 (2m 6s):
With the COVID school's empty. Things were getting painted. Things were getting fixed. I've never seen the schools look so good.

1 (2m 14s):
And then April couple of weeks after the school closed, Carrie goes in for his team meeting where they tell everyone what they're working on. Next.

2 (2m 23s):
It was, I believe I had Thursday or Friday afternoon. My boss said, we've got a project coming up next week and we're going to start to build coffins.

1 (2m 33s):
He repeated it. We'll be building coffins for the city of New York.

2 (2m 38s):
Nobody in the shop believed it. We're like, you know, get out of build coffins. And he produced a set of plants and showed them to us. And he said, we're going to start next week,

1 (2m 52s):
Monday morning, Carrie goes to work

2 (2m 54s):
And we had to go to a high school into a gymnasium that was set up as a rudimentary shop with

1 (3m 6s):
A high school gymnasium, like basketball lines on the floor kind of thing,

2 (3m 11s):
As we all get up there. And it's like, there was actually a prototype of what we had to build standing coffin. Yes. I actually have a picture.

1 (3m 24s):
Whoa. They showed you that prototype. Yes. It's a simple box standing on its end where a person's feet would be plywood and it's open the cover isn't attached yet. It's just leaning against the box. In the background. You can see a scoreboard, a basketball net and a championship banner. It

2 (3m 44s):
Was a basic plywood and two by four box. I built some strange things over the years, but I've never built a coffin in my life.

1 (3m 53s):
Very quickly. The gym became a workshop. They set up cut stations and assembly stations. Electricians came in to install ventilation fans for all the sawdust and about 10 carpenters got to work. And

2 (4m 6s):
We started bringing in drafts of plywood, which is 50 sheets at a time. And we had six drafts, supply wood and two drafts of two by fours. And they didn't give us an end or, but we were just told, this is your job for now. So we started and we ran through all the material, got more material ran through that, got more material like, oh my God, they really need this many made.

1 (4m 40s):
I asked Carrie, did they know where the coffins were going? No. Did the carpenters talk about what the boxes were for? No, we just kept working. We

2 (4m 50s):
Would get up to about 150. And so we had a very large stack of them. It was almost a wall across the gym from one end to the other. Where do you put

1 (4m 59s):
150 coffins in a high school gym

2 (5m 2s):
Straight across the basketball court from one end to the other. So

1 (5m 7s):
Stacked on top of it. Yes.

2 (5m 9s):
We'd stack them about five or six high until we got pallets. And then we placed 10 on a pallet, shrink wrap them and I would take a forklift and back them into the elevator, not drive them out onto the street and up the street through the school yard, down the next street and to the back of a tractor trailer and getting honked at for a forklift that goes too slow.

1 (5m 34s):
So they're honking at you while you were driving the coffins?

2 (5m 38s):
Yes. And in three weeks of doing it, not one person neighborhood ever asked a question, what are those, or what are you doing?

1 (5m 48s):
Do you, were you waiting for somebody to ask you?

2 (5m 52s):
I found a bizarre that nobody asked it. Maybe nobody made the connection or maybe nobody wanted to make the connection. It just seemed like people were going about their lives. And until the final load where one guy who spoke Spanish only walks past me and he just says Morta and makes sort of a slicing motion across his neck. And I just said, see, and he shook his head and just walked away

1 (6m 28s):
In the end curious team built 415 coffins. There were carpenters and other schools too altogether. They built 1400. As I've been talking to people about their jobs, people in lots of different jobs that were deemed essential over these last 17 months, I will very regularly find myself saying something like this. I had no idea that happened. Yeah. Do people know that that happened?

2 (6m 57s):
It was not for public knowledge. I think nobody knew how to handle it. I'm sure the schools didn't want like, Hey, we're building coffins over here. So that's something you want to highlight, but now that things are waning and all right, you can kind of let that out, you know?

1 (7m 19s):
Yeah. There's this sort of, part of, what's weird about what just happened is that like

2 (7m 24s):
There were people who

1 (7m 26s):
Had to do things that, that just normally are never asked of in your job and it wasn't a war, but like if it was a war after war, you go over what happened. Yeah,

2 (7m 39s):
Exactly. This is how many people died. This is, you know, how many planes rebuilt or trucks, whatever,

1 (7m 47s):
Or the fact that somebody built coffins in a high school gym in the Bronx.

2 (7m 51s):
Yeah. There's going to be an accounting. That it'll be the weird stats that come out of somewhere. And this is one of the stranger ones, 415

1 (8m 1s):
Coffins market down that happened a year and a half ago, we asked more than 50 million Americans to continue going to work because they had essential jobs and they did nurses and doctors and also mail carriers and waitresses and construction workers, childcare workers, garbage collectors, all worked through this once in a century emergency. And now we're kind of used to it. We're focused on what's next, but do we even know what just happened? I remember calling to check in on someone early in the pandemic. She works in customs at the airport and she told me they hadn't gotten any PPE yet.

1 (8m 44s):
And they were nervous. They all sit right next to each other in desks in this office. So they took cardboard boxes and put them up between their desks. And then they cut in the boxes. So they could talk to each other. I had the same feeling, hearing that as I did with the coffins, do people know that happened? Shouldn't we be marking that in some way, 415 coffins that happened in 22, Jerry rigged, cardboard partitions in JFK airport, that happened to today's show. I'd like to attempt to do a kind of accounting, not of how many people died or how many are unemployed, but a different kind of national accounting of all the smaller private moments that unfolded and people's jobs all across the country, Maine, Arizona, Michigan, New York city, specifically essential workers.

1 (9m 40s):
We're going to hear the stories. Only they know moments that changed the way people thought about their jobs, change. The choices they'll make next and will affect the economy in ways. We are only just beginning to see that's today's show, stay with us because today's show is a kind of audit. Each act name will include a number. So our first number for our ledger here is the number three. This act is called three bottles of joy. That'll make sense in a second.

1 (10m 22s):
So here's a small thing. You would have no way of knowing what's happening underground. During the pandemic session agents in New York city subway system, the people who sit in booths and sell you tickets or give you directions, they were still going to work every day, but most of the public stopped riding the trains. So it got really quiet down there. And as the weeks went on, station agents began bringing items from home, into their booths to sit with them during the day, Bibles, spiritual aphorisms, little

3 (10m 52s):
Stuff like that. Put in mirrors. Look at you. Smile. Monita

1 (10m 56s):
Lewis. She's a station agent for the MTA New York city transit. She saw workers bringing in all sorts of things into their booths.

3 (11m 4s):
You know, at one point we was buying the bottles of joy. Sometimes we would have them sit in the joy, like the dish washing soap. So if you see the word joy, you look at it. It's gonna make you smile.

1 (11m 17s):
Monita says we needed that made us feel less alone. During the over time, the bottles of joy, they started to be a marker for Monita of how their work was changing. Monita's job is to be lunch relief for other station agents. That means she travels to a station. The agent on duty goes on lunch and Monita sits in their booth for 30 minutes, then travels to the next station. So she sees the inside of a lot of boobs and Monita's an observer, black woman, cat eyeglasses. She can talk to anyone. And she does. She goes from south ferry station, director to chambers. She gets a bagel from the corner store at 10 30.

1 (11m 58s):
Am. She eats it for six minutes by the window. As she narrates the traffic at the four way, intersection outside with an eye on the unmarked cop car that is always parked there waiting. She says four or five tickets daily,

3 (12m 13s):
And people cut the light. Cause you could cut the light four ways here every day.

1 (12m 19s):
Then it's underground. Monita waves me into the subway through the gate. Come on you with the MTA, you would the MTA, March, 2020, when the pandemic shut down, New York city Monita brought word of the virus from booth to booth at one booth, the agent would say, do you think we should be wearing masks? And at the next booth, oh, I heard we're not supposed to management. Doesn't want to scare in the customers. Another booth, what customers Monita says, all the agents at every booth, we're talking about the disappearing customers.

3 (12m 59s):
Absolutely. We was like daycare to stay ahead. We wanted them to close the station down too. But as station agents, we had to be here one sec. Yes. So it felt, we felt a little cheated. We felt like, oh, like, okay, what about us? So what are y'all gonna, you know, we're grateful to have a job. Don't get me wrong. You know, I've acquired quite a bot a lot, even just meeting people and learning. But it was just like a, an easiness. It was like we was coming to work to get sick. You

4 (13m 33s):
Felt like you were coming to work to get sick. Yes.

1 (13m 36s):
And they did. Transit workers began to get sick in large numbers and they began to die in large numbers. First, a subway conductor and a bus driver. Then a track worker. The MTA suffered more COVID deaths than any other agency in New York city, 171 deaths COVID was surging. And New York city was the epicenter. It was like a plague struck this one specific agency, a bus driver I spoke with told me when you lose someone in the transit system, you notice because what transit is, is a time schedule that train pulls out at 4 31 every day, that bus passes with the same bus driver at 8 22 every morning, that person buys chips from the same vending machine in the break room at exactly five 12.

1 (14m 25s):
When someone dies, their absence is immediately visible. Monita told me, she felt like suddenly work was a battle. And she was a soldier trying to stay alive. A lot of transit workers felt this way, but they are not soldiers. So I would ask people, how do you make that switch? How does a person go from driving a train every day to going into work, thinking you might die doing this

5 (14m 57s):
The week that COVID hit my line and my terminal, I was on vacation. Christopher

1 (15m 4s):
Gonzalvez drives the number seven train. He's a conductor, suddenly an essential conductor, which he spoke about, like he was being conscripted into an army just as the war was heating

5 (15m 16s):
Up. I just kept looking at my text messages and Facebook. Everybody at work was getting sick. And I said, wow. And I started getting worried when it was time to go back to work. I didn't want to go back. I was just thinking about it. I was, I called my mom a lot. I told her, I said, mom, guess what? The week I took off, everyone got sick. Yeah. And you know, she was over here thanking the Lord. I was like, okay, mom, I got it. Thank you. You know, appreciate it. No, but I still gotta go to work tomorrow, you know? And she's given me the whole thing. Please be careful wear your mask. Stay far away from everybody.

5 (15m 58s):
I know. And she's also getting on me for my vitamin. And she said, the vitamins is going to help take the vitamins. And I said, yes, ma will. Chris said,

1 (16m 8s):
His mom told him, no, no, no. Do it now while we're on the phone. And then she waited until she could hear him taking his vitamin.

5 (16m 15s):
And I was worried and I said, mom, I spoke to her, you know, just to tell her, you know, you're my beneficiary. If something happens, everything's said I have life insurance. Don't worry about it. You know? So she w she was worried and I just had to calm her down a bit.

1 (16m 33s):
You told her you're my beneficiary. That was your way of calming her down.

5 (16m 38s):
Well, she tells it to me all the time. When she flies on the airplanes, it was scary, but relieving. It was very relieving when I was talking to her because she's my mother. I just had to man up and going the next day. But I didn't want to

1 (16m 57s):
Monita told me it was around this time when you'd hear about people dying daily, that station agents started bringing in the bottles of joy dish soap into their booths. Transit workers were essential, but there were also alone. Station. Agents are supposed to be the eyes and ears of the subway system, but there were so few people transit took away cash purchases, fear of transmission. So subway fares were all taken on machines. Monita was by herself, sitting in the boobs, looking at all the hopeful items. People brought in the bottles of joy and just hanging on until we got to the other side.

1 (17m 43s):
And now here we are kind of at the other side, is there another side? Things have definitely changed underground. They're better, but Monita's job is not the same. The people have not returned. They're not riding the trains like before. And the cash hasn't returned. Either station agents still are not allowed to take cash purchases.

3 (18m 6s):
Technically we sit there. We're not supposed to be on our phones. Not supposed to be reading anything outside of transit memos. We have no customers. So what is that? I think that's in English where the soldiers just sit there. They don't move

4 (18m 25s):
Like at the Queen's palace. Yeah.

1 (18m 27s):
Does it make you not want to do the job anymore?

3 (18m 30s):
It makes me feel like I'm unable to fully do what I was hired to do.

4 (18m 39s):
So say more about that. What do you mean by that?

3 (18m 42s):
One of the biggest things coming down here was the busy-ness, you know, I like busy stations, the money, the comradery with the customer, they go into work. I'm a people's park. And most of us work.

4 (18m 58s):
You don't feel like a people person anymore. I do

3 (19m 1s):
Feel like a people person. I just feel like people don't care.

1 (19m 7s):
And a lot of us feel that way, especially because recently the MTA has proposed, eliminating her position, the position of lunch relief for station agents, the union sued and the MTA back down, but looking forward without cash purchases, the job of a station agent does seem much less essential. What if Monita survived? The war only to be laid off in peacetime asked her recently, if the bottles of joy are still in the booths, she said, nah, people took them away. You're not allowed to bring extra stuff into the booth. You could get away with it. Before when we were left alone down there act two Monita's job changed pretty dramatically in ways she did not like, but most jobs didn't actually change that much.

1 (20m 5s):
In fact, one of the strangest aspects of working through the pandemic for a lot of people was how much did not change in their jobs. That is the case with this next story. So we're going to add another number to our list. If you picture our ledger here, we've got 415 coffins, three bottles of joy. I feel like the next number here should have like stars drawn around it or something. Sparkly pen, aspirational stars, like a goals list. The number is 25 act two is called the twenty-five dollar tip. It took Shelly or to use a decade in the restaurant business to work up to a $25 tip.

1 (20m 45s):
She started when she was 15 years, got her first job as a cashier at a five guys in Phoenix and Shelley walks in bubbly, ready to go, her nickname, growing up with smiley, and you can hear it in her voice. I remember

6 (20m 59s):
I was at orientation and I really wanted to make friends. And I remember like turning to a man and being like, so what high school do you go to? Like looked at me. And he was like, I'm 35. It was just like a big realization that like, I'm the youngest person here. And it shows

1 (21m 21s):
Shelly describes herself as an all in type person. And she threw herself into restaurants all through college or twenties. There was five guys, then a French bistro, a sandwich shop, a food court and eventually fine dining where she finally got her first $25 tip, which was huge. She was only making $9 an hour. Joey picked up on the routines of each place. She worked easily. She loves her routine and she loved restaurants. Shelly got rude customers all the time. People would say things about her body, her personality, how much she was checking on the table. I remember

6 (21m 60s):
I used to work brunches a lot. I was like the brunch girl and brunch made good money, but brunch clientele, it's intimidating. And I remember we were running out of forks. We were running out of forks. And I think about this all the time. I think I put some spoons on a table. I have a very picky, picky brunch table because they were getting like something that they could potentially eat it with a spoon, but they probably should have actual roll-ups with a fork and a knife and a napkin. And I remember I came back to collect them because we needed them and give them actual roll-ups and a woman slapped my hand away and said, we need those.

6 (22m 41s):
And I was like, I'm giving you roll-ups actual silverware. And she like looked at her friend. She was like, like this girl. And she like rolled her eyes and continued to talk to the woman. And it was, it was just like a reminder that like, I am not a human to her. I have never been a person to her. I am just someone out of her world that doesn't deserve to be treated like a human being.

1 (23m 8s):
Shelly got it. This too was routine. He came along with the $25 tips.

6 (23m 14s):
I mean, amongst the servers, no one would be shocked to hear that it's very common

1 (23m 20s):
And it felt worth it to you.

6 (23m 21s):
Yeah. I would just think that I got her money. I got paid. So she's just another person that I don't have to think about after this. And at the end of my shift, I'd be able to go home. I'd be able to hug my girlfriend. It became like this association, like, this is not me. This is just this person who is serving and you're going to take home this money. They gave him the money.

1 (23m 47s):
She honed the skill to disassociate. She could shake off whatever was thrown at her. Shelly would collect the cash from the table and move on the mayor of Phoenix declared a state of emergency on March 17th, 20, 20 Shelley's restaurant closed briefly. But soon after restaurants were declared essential services in Arizona and reopened for takeout and delivery. But Shelly hung back. Her dad was sick, recovering from a heart attack. And her mom is a nurse who is treating patients with COVID. Shelly was too scared. She told me she didn't want to apply for unemployment because she's Puerto Rican.

1 (24m 30s):
And she just had a sense that that kind of thing never happened for people like her by may restaurants in Arizona, we're serving people in person and Shelly had to go back. She was still very nervous.

6 (24m 42s):
I was double masking before. It was even a thing. I bought fake glasses to protect my eyes. I was like, I would only really take off my mask to drink water. And I would only drink water in the bathroom where I was alone. Like that's the only time I would ever get it. And you know, that was a long ships. I was really scared.

1 (25m 2s):
Meanwhile, she still had her routines. She was doing all the things she'd done thousands of times before. Welcome the customer, explain the specials, carry the plates, deliver the drinks.

6 (25m 13s):
And I was just kind of waiting for that shitty thing to happen. I would have people ask me, like, pull down your mask. I want to see how much it tip you. Pull down your mask. I want to see how much to tip you. Yes. Wow. They would want to see how pretty I was before they tip me.

1 (25m 32s):
Was that a thing that happened frequently that people would ask you to pull down your mask?

6 (25m 37s):
Yeah. That happened probably about every week pulled on your mask so I can make sure you're smiling. Pull down your masks. So I, you know, or like, why, you know, why are we still wearing masks? Why did you have to wear a mask? You know, it was always about like either, why am I wearing what? Or can I see your face

1 (25m 54s):
So I can know that you're smiling.

6 (25m 56s):
Yeah. So I can know you're smiling so I can know if you're pretty, which is so stupid. It was like, God, who gives a fuck if I'm pretty good, I just serve you your food.

1 (26m 10s):
I'm sure that wasn't the first time that you were customers were assessing the way that you looked, but did it feel different to have it stated? So baldly

6 (26m 20s):
Yeah. You know, I am, so I'm four foot nine. I'm very short. And I have very big breasts for my frame. You know, it's unavoidable. I'm very small. I have big boobs and usually like, no, I'm really cute. So like, it's easy to have people like, just understand that people are going to be checking me out. I would have before. But I think when the pandemic hit, it was hit harder because I, they wanted me to risk my safety so that they could see if I was cute.

1 (26m 60s):
Something I heard from a lot of people I talked to about working through a pandemic people in all sorts of jobs, they said they felt like they were in a movie that one of the strangest parts was how much did not change. It was uncanny the way it good science fiction is uncanny. It looks like normal life, but something big is off. And the parts of the job that have not changed, just make the parts that feel off, stand out. Even more.

6 (27m 27s):
I was serving a Saturday night and it was a really busy shift. I was outside and I was serving this couple and they were really needy, but that, wasn't very rare, especially at a restaurant like this, where, you know, you're paying, you're paying good money for food and drink. But at the end of the shift, the gentlemen, it was a gentleman and his wife, older gentleman and his wife. And he asked me to pull down my mask so he could see if the bottom part of my face was as cute as the top. And I said, I couldn't. And then when I said, I couldn't, he said that because he couldn't focus on my face. He was forced to focus on my breast. Wow. And his wife is sitting right across from him.

6 (28m 8s):
And I looked at her for any sort of response. And she just kind of gave me a blank, stare and return. He said, it like, almost like matter of factly, he was like, well, if I can't look at your face, I'm forced to look at your breasts. And it was like, and it was just, it was just disgusting. It just sucked, like, which is like, great. Awesome. Now I'm I think mostly during the pandemic, my self-worth was so low. I felt really disposable, obviously being objectified all the time, because half of my face was covered up and I tried to make it work, but I wasn't adjusting the way my coworkers were.

6 (28m 59s):
And I felt really disposable. And I just felt like another person who was destined to get sick. And it would just be like another stat. Have you felt that way before? I've never felt that way before. It was like the pandemic and risking your life and not feeling though comradery with your teammates any more, because it really didn't feel like anyone was taking it as seriously as me. And then I started questioning if I'm this crazy person and I started questioning my anxiety and then my anxiety got worse and the anxiety and the anger got so high, but I felt like I was not adjusting the way my coworkers adjusted.

6 (29m 42s):
I feel like people who had to work during the pandemic adopted this, this association and I couldn't, I couldn't separate it.

1 (29m 54s):
Why couldn't she, Shelley spent so much time on this question. Why couldn't she disassociate as she'd done for years, when a customer slapped her hand or yelled or talked about her body, her coworkers were going out to karaoke after work. Her customers were out with friends and family catching up.

6 (30m 13s):
I remember one time a woman had a comment card and she like, she left it for me. And I said, thanks for making things feel normal with like a smiley face. And I was like, live it. I was like, things are not normal. This is not normal. I'm risking my life to serve you a margarita. And it's not normal. I don't want to contribute to this fantasy that a pandemic isn't happening right now.

1 (30m 44s):
Really interesting. So she was, she was like, trying to give you a compliment. I'm like, yeah,

6 (30m 49s):
I never did a good job. I understand that. Like it was coming from a kind place, but thousands of people are dying right down the road at the hospital. And I'm here serving your margarita because I have to because I have to live. And it was just like, it's such an intense moment for me of like realization that like, this is what I'm here to do. I'm here to create a fantasy that things aren't as bad as they are. And they are

1 (31m 21s):
What is essential about restaurants? Sure. They provide jobs, food, but soda, grocery stores. This was a health crisis. Doctors, nurses. Sure. Essential. But what is essential about an Asian fusion place in downtown Phoenix? All these things we suddenly started calling essential services. This wasn't some long held, agreed upon category. We just made all this up very recently. And even then it was pretty random. There was federal guidance on what services should be essential, but most states didn't follow the guidance. They either came up with their own list of essential services or they had no guidance.

1 (32m 4s):
So if you had a liquor store in Pennsylvania, you were not essential, but in New Jersey you were construction workers. That was a controversial one in a number of states essential or not essential. And then there are the ones that have a particularly local flavor, like flower shops. They were essential in Delaware and in Arizona golf courses essential also restaurants. So Shelly's restaurant was open and millions of restaurant workers performed their normal daily routines through a pandemic. Why, what essential service did they provide? Was this? It restaurants were essential because they help make things feel normal.

1 (32m 49s):
Once Shelly thought about her job this way, she was to continue doing all the things she'd always done. She was essential so that other people could feel normal. It was too much for her. The trade-off she'd been making in her head $25 tips in exchange for some long hours, some crap from customers that trade-off fell apart. She didn't want to be paid for the fantasy anymore. A few weeks later, a coworker was exposed to COVID and Shelly walked out of the restaurant.

6 (33m 22s):
I never went back. Oh, that was the end for you. Yeah. Yeah.

1 (33m 29s):
Shelly got unemployment. Then picked up some film jobs, went back to school for film. She told me now she doesn't think she could ever go back to serving even after the pandemic. Do you feel like the actual job changed or do you think it's that you changed? Did the ch like, has it become ugly or was it always ugly?

6 (33m 50s):
Yeah, I think that I changed more than the job change. There's always been a certain amount of ugly. That's been in the restaurant industry, especially, you know, sexual breastfeed has always been there forever. It's always been there, but it was like, I like seeing it for the first time with new eyes. I saw a lack of kindness and courtesy and it was constant.

1 (34m 19s):
Yeah. It's almost like people put on COVID goggles and wearing the COVID goggles. Like they started to see their job differently.

6 (34m 29s):
I definitely saw my job differently with my COVID couple goggles, for sure. That is what made it really ugly for me.

1 (34m 45s):
Here's the image I have in my mind hearing Shelley, talk about where she's at right now. I make sure all the governors and mayors and council members sitting down to make their lists of essential services, hospitals, grocery stores, restaurants, golf courses, and I picture Shelly doing the same. She's making her own lists of all the things she considers essential, her life, her health, her self-worth. And she's crossing off an item at the very bottom of her list, a $25 tip coming up quitters and the people who love them.

1 (35m 37s):
That's an a minute from Chicago public radio. When our program continues, it's this American life. I'm kind of, Joffey Walt sitting in for IRA glass. This week's show, we are talking to essential workers about what happened inside their jobs over the last year and a half things. Nobody else knows. And we are marking these experiences down for posterity so that as we move into the bright and quickly darkening future, we will do so with a shared understanding of what we have just been through. So far, we have 415 coffins, three bottles of joy and a $25 tip. We're going to be adding more to that list.

1 (36m 17s):
And we will see what happens when people take stock one by one and wind up making some choices they never expected to make. That's what the second half of the show is about quitters and the people they quit on a record. Number of people are quitting their jobs, and they're all quitting on Ms. Jordan Rossignol. That's how it feels to her anyway, which brings us to our next act. Teacher. Number four, Ms. Jordan's child development center in Northern Maine has lost 23 teachers since the pandemic began 23 most years, Ms. Jordan told me herself, maybe one or two teachers leave.

1 (36m 59s):
So that's our next number for our ledger. 23, 23 disappearing teachers. Ms. Jordan says the first teacher, she left right away, March 20, 20. She was scared of Jeremy kids. Then another went in April 3rd and may they left for other jobs. And then in June, Mr. Jordan says, was teacher number four,

7 (37m 21s):
Shanaya. Shanaya was hands down. The best teacher we've ever had in this program ever. I could talk for hours about Shanaya

1 (37m 30s):
Finding good teachers and then keeping them, this has always been a problem in early childhood education. It's one of those areas that was already a bruise and the pandemic came and just stomped on it until the bone was broken too. For Ms. Jordan teacher, number four, Shanaya bell, that felt like the break. She can't get over it. And she's not joking about how much time she can spend lamenting this particular loss. Shenaya's ideas were fresh. She tells me her discipline was fair. Her lesson plans were thought out. She was reliable. She was a fun co-worker

7 (38m 5s):
I would in meetings when we have staff meetings, I would say, okay, your voice. I want you to have Shanaya voice where they could be from, but their voice was happy in the morning. When you drop off your child, do you want to hear good morning? My friends?

1 (38m 19s):
What kind of voice? Where people doing?

7 (38m 21s):
Just like, oh, good morning. How are you doing? Let's go. Let's get in. Go on. Oh, I know you're crying. I'll go just short. We had some teachers in the past or were just short, come on. You're a big kid. Let's go. None of that. Like no good morning. My sweet girl, good morning friends. She did this calm down method because toddlers, toddlers get mad and they don't know why they're mad and they're impulsive. And they wanted to bite or hit or run away. And she'd be told them to blow up a balloon. And they would put their hands over their head, both taking a deep breath and they would hold it there, like a balloon over their head. And then they would slowly let the air out and they would just go poop. And they would sit by themselves and she made a little balloon corners. What she called it and they still do it still.

7 (39m 4s):
I'll still say even my own daughter, Monroe, Monroe. I need you to do three balloons please. And she'll take her three deep breaths until really some and they're calm. So yeah, it's just, she has a gift. She has a gift. Just amazing. Amazing. Like you can't teach it.

1 (39m 22s):
See what I mean? When Ms. Jordan conceived of her early childhood center in her hometown babies to kindergarten, she could picture it in her mind, but she says it wasn't until Shanaya showed up a couple of years ago. And she got to see her in a real classroom. That's when Ms. Jordan felt like this is going to work. Shanaya told me for her. When she walked into Ms. Jordan center, 21 years old, she was nervous in a way she had not been before because she felt like this is it. This is the job I actually care about. And I don't want to mess it up. And she did love the job

8 (39m 59s):
20, 28 and COVID head. And you know, for a little while, a lot of our kiddos weren't coming to school and I was nervous. Like, are we going to have to close? You know, am I not going to be getting paid for a little while? I don't know. There was just a lot of uncertainty.

1 (40m 23s):
There was the time the owner, Ms. Jordan asked everyone to hold off on getting paid and their paychecks came in late. And the time Shanaya was pretty sure her paycheck came from Ms. Jordan's personal bank account. Shanaya began to feel like, wait, is there no cushion in this business? She'd never really thought about the business side of things before. But once she started to, she started to have some doubts. When a friend posted about a job at the local hardware store, should I applied? Then she had to tell Ms. Jordan.

7 (40m 55s):
So she came in my office and shut the door. And I knew that was bad when she shut the door. This is Ms. Jordan again. And she just started crying. And she was like, I was offered a job. That was the first time I ever cried. When someone gave me their notice. I just lost it. Yeah, instantly. Yeah. And she's, she was just crying. Like I can't pay my bills. I can't afford to work here.

1 (41m 21s):
This is obvious but deserve saying anyway. So many of the people we call essential workers do not make a lot of money. They are overwhelmingly low wage workers about half the people in this country who make less than $15 an hour work in fields. We now call essential. So you can be the very best at running the grill or cleaning the office, building or managing rude customers at the restaurant. You can be the star teacher, teacher, number four Shanaya, and still only make an average of 11 or $12 an hour. And no healthcare. Ms. Jordan barely makes enough from tuition to cover her expenses, but she's reluctant to raise rates on families because she knows many parents can't afford to pay.

1 (42m 8s):
And she knows from experience that if she goes too high, families are going to pull their kids altogether. When Shanaya talked to Ms. Jordan, and when she talked to me about leaving her job, she could not bring herself to say the word quit. She told Ms. Jordan, I have to get done.

8 (42m 25s):
I knew that she was gonna try, like, you know, everything to, to pay me more. But I knew that everything she was trying to do possibly wasn't going to work out in the end just because she couldn't, he really couldn't afford to do that. And I knew that. Yeah. And I knew that. And I, and I understood

1 (42m 53s):
Ms. Jordan did do all those things. She pleaded we'll figure something out, just give me more time. And she tried a technique that I think is maybe only applicable in a small town when Shanaya said where she was going, Ms. Jordan shook her head. I was like, you're going to hate it.

7 (43m 11s):
Yeah. I was like, I love you. And I want you to be happy, but you're going to hate it. And I know the boss and the owner of it. And I said, he won't love you the way I love you. I'll tell you that. And she's like, I know, I know. And I also thought like, she's going to hate that she going to come back.

1 (43m 28s):
So Shanaya left and Ms. Jordan waited for her to return in the early childcare world. There were two somewhat distinct phases of the pandemic. There was the beginning in which childcare centers lost money, even as their work became labeled essential. And then there's this moment now where what was already a chronic problem of teacher turnover has become so much worse because the industry can't compete places like Walmart, home Depot, FedEx, grocery store chains, like Kroger kept making money over the pandemic. Amazon made record profits.

1 (44m 9s):
Childcare centers did not. So teachers are leaving for jobs at Amazon or Dunkin donuts or grocery stores that can pay them more and sometimes give them health benefits. A woman in Ohio who owns a childcare center told me even the amusement parks can pay better than we can. Right now when Ms. Jordan lost Shanaya teacher, number four of 23, she allowed a thought that has been sitting uncomfortably to the forefront ever since. What if I can never keep someone like Shanaya?

1 (44m 50s):
What if no one ever believes this is valuable?

7 (44m 54s):
I feel like I'm constantly trying to prove myself that what I'm doing is is important. I have a college degree in education. People don't know, people don't know what we do. Like how could it cost so much? Aren't you guys just like coloring and eating goldfish all day with them? Like, no, no. I make lesson plans for every single classroom infant up to the school age program. There's so many regulations that we have to follow. There's a schedule. There's a meal plan. There's trainings that my staff have to do. We run this like a school. The only difference is that there's no public funding for us.

1 (45m 31s):
Why is it that essential workers happened to be some of the lowest paid workers in the country? How could a job that is so valuable, be paid so little. There are some standard explanations. You will hear many essential jobs do not require extra credentials or a lot of education. There's a lot of available labor to do these jobs. In other words, they are low paid because they're quote low skilled jobs. But also one thing that unites this broad category of low paid essential jobs. And almost everyone you've heard from in this show is not the kind of work they're doing, but who is doing it?

1 (46m 11s):
Black people, Latino people, immigrants, women, and all the people who cover more than one of those categories. 95% of childcare workers are women, white women like Shanaya, Ms. Jordan, and many women of color. Almost half of childcare workers are people of color. The field is much more racially and linguistically diverse than K through 12 teachers. And the people in it make much less money. The pandemic gave childcare and official stamp of essential notice in this singular moment in history, when it is more clear than it has ever been and may ever be again, that schools and childcare are essential to the functioning of literally everything.

1 (46m 55s):
But Mr. Lin's work and the people doing that work may never be valued enough for her to secure more funding or for her to get Shanaya back. Ms. Jordan and Shanaya live in a town of 8,000 people. So when Shanaya left, she went all the way to a job across the street. She parks in the same spot she did when she worked at Ms. Jordan's, Ms. Jordan told me, I see her all the time.

7 (47m 27s):
She came by like every day after work, her first week over there. And she was like, well, it's not the same. It's definitely not the same. She's like, I didn't think I was going to have to work Saturdays. And after work every Saturday, all summer. And I said, weird, your old boss never made you work a Saturday. Yeah. So we kinda like, we tease each other about that and stuff. And then like, she'll, she'll, she's come to have lunch with me a couple of times during her lunch break, the other day I was working on a project and I needed paint. I went over there. She was working behind the paint counter. She mixed my paint for me. And you know, they watched her like mixed paint.

7 (48m 6s):
Like, I can't believe this is what you're doing. Like you are so talented and so gifted. And not that, you know, mixing paint isn't important, but like, that's what you're doing. Like she has a gift that you can't teach. It just kills me to watch her do something that is not what her gift is. And her passion.

1 (48m 34s):
One thing that economists will say about economic moments like this, when a lot of people are quitting, their jobs, they'll say it's a good thing. High quits numbers equals optimism. People are going back to school. They're going for that dream job. People feel secure enough to look around a little for what they really want to do. This is obviously not an example of that. This is an example of a market that does not work. This is an example of a talented person. Who's drawn to a job that is essential that she's not doing because it does not pay enough act for, there are people who are quitting, who are happy about it.

1 (49m 24s):
There are people who are mad, confused about what they want. Of course, there's the whole range. One thing I found interesting is that for many people, there was often one moment that set things in motion for them a while back, some symbol of something just being off in their job. And then it's like, these symbols just sat next to them for months, kind of haunting them until they could not deal anymore. They found themselves doing something they never planned to do. Sometimes that was quitting, but there were some other approaches as well. So for our last story, I want to tell you about some of those symbols and then what happened next? Our last number, it's also our biggest number in the whole show.

1 (50m 7s):
12 million act for 12 million. Thank you. Meals. This one, I heard about it from a guy in Flint, Michigan.

5 (50m 16s):
My name is Alexander.

1 (50m 20s):
Fredo is 61 years old. He's a black man wakes up every morning at 4:00 AM walks to work. McDonald's opens the store, cook sausage, eggs, pancakes. He's in the back on his own. Sometimes for many hours, he doesn't mind. He enjoys working alone. When he's at home, Fleeta will spend a lot of time helping out neighbors, removing snow, cutting grass. He enjoys that too. Although he did mention he's a person who sometimes has a hard time saying no. When I asked Fleeta what the pandemic was like for him. That's when he started telling me about how last spring McDonald's began offering free food, egg McMuffin.

5 (50m 59s):
As far as I've seen the commercials and all like, wow, they're going to give away an egg muffin to meals, to essential workers. You know,

9 (51m 8s):
These are the most important meals we've ever served through May 5th. We'll be feeding first responders and healthcare workers. Thank you, meals for free.

1 (51m 22s):
It really is watching a bunch of these commercials. I'd somehow forgotten how completely everyone threw themselves in to breathlessly, praising essential workers. Two words. Most of us had never heard used together before. All of a sudden they were everywhere. It's like we invented this category of worker, grew

9 (51m 41s):
Into a fifth wheel. Be proudly feeding you. Thank you, meals for free. It's our honor to serve you.

1 (51m 48s):
Anyway. FleetOne saw that commercial and was like, oh, that'll be me serving

5 (51m 53s):
You. I don't like all or we finna get ready, be busy. You know, that's my first thought. Cause you know, and, and the worker's time people from hospitals, nurses, you know, they came and got the food.

1 (52m 6s):
Okay. Now I thought Flato was sharing this as a moment of pride being part of this. But no, this moment handing out free. Thank you meals. It was the start of something for him.

5 (52m 18s):
Well, to be honest with you, I didn't like it. I didn't understand it because we here working and you want to make some food, give it to somebody. We couldn't go nowhere. Get nothing free.

1 (52m 35s):
You weren't getting the free food. That was for the essential workers.

5 (52m 40s):
Weren't you guys essential workers. Yeah. So why you go, come up with something for us to have

1 (52m 49s):
McDonald's gave away 12 million. Thank you. Meals to frontline workers. After two weeks, they stopped, but not without putting out one more commercial.

9 (52m 58s):
It was an honor to meet you and honor to thank you. And it was our honor to serve

1 (53m 4s):
You. Business went back to normal, but fleet owner kept returning to the experience in his mind. How much did that cost? All of a sudden they have so much money

5 (53m 15s):
For that. They was giving it, giving them free food wave. You got a dash 82 waste nails, a dollars on juice or body, some food case, some of that and make a difference with one of us. You're making a difference with other people, but you're still ignoring your workers. So I didn't understand it. That's I guess that was probably the one of the shareholders needing to come up with that idea.

1 (53m 39s):
We don't talk a lot about the shareholders for McDonald's the big corporation and also about the franchise owner, the people who own his McDonald's and about a dozen or so other stores, he says he barely saw them during the pandemic, the higher ups. They rarely came to the store. He'd always noticed it. But handing out the thank you meals for healthcare workers, you noticed it more,

5 (54m 3s):
You scratching your head like, wow. You know, no appreciation gets shown towards us. So, so type of appreciation towards the ones that's doing some work. That's what I mean. It's not no jealous thing. It's it's common sense. It's like a show of unconcerned.

1 (54m 21s):
The, the feeling that you're describing, did that start in the last year for you?

5 (54m 26s):
Yeah. Yeah. To be honest with you, you are, you are 1000%, right? It's true. I have come to the company and say, good job. You guys are doing a good job. Paying her tax this year. Thank you all for coming to work bill at this time, what would it have meant to you? If you had it a minute, a lot. It had been a very touching thing for somebody to, to, to let you know that they're have the slightest respect for your life and your livelihood because not showing a sense of unconcerned to people. It's not a good feeling. It's like having a relative that won't speak to you is makes you sad.

1 (55m 11s):
I thought that was such a fitting way to describe something. I'd heard from a lot of people who worked through the pandemic, a feeling that while they had no choice to come to work, the people who were making all the choices, if they had to work, how much, how much they get paid, how safe they'd be. Those people appeared completely indifferent, callous, even like a relative who won't speak to you. A server at a pizza restaurant in Texas. Ashley Baker told me the owner used to come in all the time. And then he

8 (55m 43s):
Vanished. He did. He literally stopped coming to the restaurant. He literally just went AWOL. As soon as like, there was news saying that COVID was in El Paso. He literally disappeared. When

1 (55m 58s):
He showed back up months later, they were all relieved to have someone in charge to answer their questions.

8 (56m 4s):
But I do remember one thing that really struck a nerve with me was that he changed his vehicle to like a Corvette. And I remember like that kind of struck a nerve in me because I'm like, you're paying us minimum wage and you want people to come in on time and stuff, but you're over here. You have the luxury of not coming in and you have the ability to go change your, to get, get a brand new car. That was the moment where I was like, where things just set in

1 (56m 42s):
For flooding. It was the 12 million. Thank you meals. That was the symbol for him. Now, glowing neon. It put all the other parts of his job in a less acceptable light for Ashley. It was the Corvette for employees at a McDonald's in California. Perhaps it was when they raised concerns about the lack of PPE. And they say their bosses told them to use coffee filters and doggy diapers for masks. For a guy I met outside an Amazon warehouse. It was when he says he was fired four times for having COVID four times. This was a thing. Apparently at Amazon, people would tell their bosses, they had COVID or they got exposed to COVID and then they'd get fired later.

1 (57m 27s):
They would hear it was an HR mistake and they were welcome to appeal. Get their job back, but not always the weeks or sometimes months of lost wages. And for Ashley's manager at the pizza place, a woman named Solares Morales, the Corvette pissed her off. But the real sign for her was when the restaurant cut back her hours and she became eligible for unemployment.

8 (57m 51s):
I was like, how can I be making more on unemployment than my actual job? I mean, how, yeah. I mean, how can it be possible that they gave us all that EMP unemployment? And we're still making like, what's the minimum wage in Texas 7 25. Like how

1 (58m 11s):
And what lesson did you take from that?

8 (58m 15s):
That your boss never tours for you?

1 (58m 20s):
I don't know. Yeah. These things just sat nearby as they did their jobs nagging a Corvette being fired four times 7 25 an hour. Fleeta at McDonald's. He was handing out those thank you meals more than a year ago. He's still mad about it. He's mad about a lot of things that they never got hazard pay, sick pay, paid time off healthcare. The owner operator of Florida's McDonald's says he showed his appreciation by raising wages during the pandemic. But fleet is wage is another thing that just makes him angry. He went from $11 to $12 an hour.

1 (59m 1s):
He wants more. But the one thing Flato talked about more than any other was the fact that the franchise owner and the people who work with him did not come by. And when they did, they did not appear to actually see them.

5 (59m 21s):
No, I name when they come in the building, see like they show no concern.

1 (59m 27s):
That's interesting because I feel like appreciating essential workers is the one thing that we did do, like most places didn't pay hazard pay or higher wages or healthcare, but like, there was so much thank you, essential workers. We appreciate you and clapping for you and commercials. But none of that felt like anything to you.

5 (59m 48s):
No, not really. My mother always said, when you come into somebody's home, you're supposed to say, Hey, how you doing? You're supposed to speak.

1 (59m 58s):
Yeah. You didn't want an ad. You wanted your actual human boss to come and say, thank you.

5 (1h 0m 6s):
Yeah. Get everybody together and alive and tell us how you feel. That would be fine. That would be fine. That'd be excellent for me. It made me happy as hell

1 (1h 0m 23s):
Ashley. And Solares at the pizza restaurant. They quit the guy I met at the Amazon warehouse. He was being pitched on a union. A group of current and former employees are now trying to organize one at the Staten island warehouse and fleet did something. He has never done his entire working career. Recently when his coworker started talking about striking, he joined, it felt like not him.

5 (1h 0m 53s):
Yeah, it was no, for me, it was very new. And there were so many people out there were just, yeah, actually it was really nice. I mean, people was everywhere. Did you hold a sign? No, I didn't get a chance to. And it's just, it's just sad that we have to stand outside, you know, and yell and scream and say, yeah, we want this. We want that. Well, you should be sitting down and trying to come up with a plan for this to happen for us.

1 (1h 1m 24s):
Did you ever expect that you would make it to 61 years old and, and suddenly become a guy who goes to strikes?

5 (1h 1m 32s):
Well, you know, you only can flap a person so many times and you only can do a person wrong. So many times it, Maggie got all these jobs paying 19 $20 an hour. And some of them have given you a $300 sign and both, and like an idiot. I still sit here and walk to the bone of heart.

1 (1h 1m 55s):
Play-Doh doesn't want to quit. The McDonald's is close to his house. He has no transportation. He can walk to work. He likes the people. He works with. Some of them he's worked with for many years and he likes the work. He doesn't want to change. He wants the job to change. He wants it to be less thankless. Oh, many of the industries we deemed essential now seem to be in some sort of chaos. Restaurants are open now, but not for dinner because there's not enough staff. Healthcare workers are quitting their jobs. Election officials are baling and school superintendents from America's three largest school systems have all quit and things that never really worked that great before.

1 (1h 2m 45s):
It seemed to be truly breaking down. I called jet blue the other day to change a reservation. And the recording said the current wait time is 299 minutes. Some food chains are actually raising wages, Chipotle a olive garden. McDonald's is raising wages at its corporate stores. It's a small share of actual McDonald's stores, but still support for labor unions is the highest it's been in years, every week or so lately I see a picture online, posted outside a store, a restaurant announcing that no one works there anymore. Like this one, scotch taped to the door that reads attention to lay customers were overworked, understaffed and underappreciated.

1 (1h 3m 32s):
Almost the entire staff and management have walked out of here until further notice or another. We are closed indefinitely because dollar general doesn't pay a living wage or treat their employees with respect. I've never seen anything like it. Each sign. It seems like a whole group of employees just spontaneously and collectively decided they were done. But you know, something happened at some point before now, some shift started with say a Corvette or with 12 million. Thank you. Meals. One sign posted on a McDonald's drive through menu reads. We are short-staffed please be patient with the staff that did show up.

1 (1h 4m 14s):
No one wants to work anymore. Or another also from a different McDonald's with a different perspective. It reads we are closed because I am quitting and I hate this job. People quit jobs for all sorts of reasons. And there are a lot of people debating why so many are doing it right now. So I'd like to just make sure this one possibility is on the table, alongside all the others, that a good number of people worked through a life-threatening pandemic feeling unseen by the very people who were supposed to care for them feeling as suedo did. Like they have a relative who will not speak to them.

1 (1h 4m 57s):
My favorite sign is from a Wendy's in North Carolina. It reads, we all quit closed in capital letters. And then on the corner of the sign someone's growled. Bye Alyssa with a smiley face next to it.

1 (1h 5m 49s):
This show was produced by him out of wound meat and edited by our executive editor, Emmanuel Berry, the people who put our show together today include Susan Burton of Eva de Cornfeld Tobin, low meat, unique Lena Mitzi's stone Nelson, Catherine Raymondo Alyssa ship, Laura star Chesky, Lily Sullivan, Christopher sweat tower, Matt Tierney, Nancy uptake, Chloe Weiner and Diane Lou. Our managing editor is Sarah Abdurrahman, senior editor, David Kestenbaum. Special. Thanks today to reach Alyse Jennifer Klein, Diana Ramirez at one fair wage, Kate Wells. So we Clark Leah Austin and Penelope Whitney, Derek Hamilton, Robert Williams and Helen Peterson, Zoe some mood Z Gina gin, Tanya Breslow, Betsy Stevenson, and all the other people who spoke to me about their essential jobs.

1 (1h 6m 38s):
And also thanks to the excellent reporters who have focused on them in their stories, especially Eliza Shapiro, Heather Long, and Annie Lowrey, our website, this American life.org, where you can stream our archive of over 700 episodes for absolutely free. This American life is delivered to public radio stations by P R X, the public radio exchange. Thanks to my boss, IRA glass. He has this special way of testing a microphone, always the same for the last 25 years during the show, we'll be back next week with more stories of this American life.

0 (1h 7m 43s):
Next week on the podcast of this American life murderers, performing a play about murder at a prison in Missouri inmates put on Hamlet. Danny Waller plays Hamets murdered father

10 (1h 7m 54s):
I'm the body up there, but the words are coming from William pride.

9 (1h 8m 4s):
The man that I killed murders critique Shakespeare's fictional murder next week on the podcast on your local public radio station.