0 (0s):
Support for this American life comes from Marcus by Goldman Sachs, but the personal loan from Marcus, you get a fixed rate and no fees ever. No late fees, no prepayment fees, no application fees, no origination fees, just a no fee loan that could help consolidate debt. You can money lending and deposits products provided by Goldman Sachs bank USA member FDAC, a quick warning. There are curse words that are under beeped in today's episode of the show. If you prefer a beeped version, you can find that at our website, this American life.org from WBZ Chicago. It's this American life. I'm David Kestenbaum sitting in fiberglass.

1 (41s):
Hi, Jamal, can you hear me?

2 (43s):
Hello? Hello?

1 (45s):
Okay. So are you still in front of the Canadian or not?

2 (50s):
Yeah. In terms of the Canadian in the water,

1 (54s):
You're in the water right now,

0 (58s):
This is a phone call between a man in California and a man standing in a canal outside the airport in Kabul. Afghanistan that'll make more sense than a minute. We had a totally different show planned for you today, but then we came across this phone call and it just seemed important to put it on the air. Now it's from Monday before the explosion around the airport, that killed dozens of people, but it's a snapshot in a way from the last hours of this war as the U S leaves, Afghanistan, when who would get out and who would not, was all still being decided hour by hour. So we're going to do on the show today is we're going to hear the story of that phone call. And then we're going to play you some other stories about getting out about people, trying to extricate themselves from seemingly impossible situations.

0 (1m 44s):
So the first guy you heard on the call, the guy in California is Kirk Johnson. We've had him on the show before and when things started to fall apart in Afghanistan, he reached out to us because years ago he did reconstruction work in Iraq for the U S government. And since then for a long time, now he has been trying to get people in Iraq and Afghanistan. Who've worked with the us government and who are in danger out of those countries. He started an organization back in 2007, called the list project. So these past weeks, Kirk has been on the phone constantly. And on Monday night with his kids asleep in the other room, he had the series of phone calls, which he recorded with the man. You heard his name is <inaudible> and Kirk is trying to talk them through the crowds and the confusion and chaos around the airport in Afghanistan, to try to get our Jamal and his family past all the barriers, hopefully onto a plane and out of the country.

0 (2m 37s):
All of this is happening over the phone from half a world away. Nancy uptake here has known Kirk for many years. She talked to him about what happened. Here's Nancy Kirk

3 (2m 48s):
Didn't know <inaudible> before Monday night, he never met him. He just heard this was a person who needed help. One of the many people who needed help, whose names had been piling up in these threads. Kirk has been on all week group chats with us veterans, active military, current and former diplomats and aid workers, some Afghan citizens of the U S and other countries all on their phones day and night, trying to help Afghans get out. Can you hear me? Monday night, Kirk called.

1 (3m 17s):
Okay. So are you still in front of the Canadian or not?

2 (3m 22s):
Yeah, he's trying to have the comedian in the water.

1 (3m 26s):
You're in the water right now.

3 (3m 30s):
The Canadian is a Canadian soldier and the water is the canal right outside the Kabul airport. The only thing Jamal was trying to do here, the whole thing is to slog his way to within earshot of the one Canadian soldier he can see and make himself heard above the crowd. Jamal worked for an NGO funded by the United States, and now he and his family need to leave him, his parents and his brother they're luckier than most of the people around them because they have citizenship in another country. He and his family are all Canadian citizens.

3 (4m 11s):
And please picture this young Canadian <inaudible>. Kirk sent me a photo of him in the canal. <inaudible> is 27 years old. Pretty sure he could pass for 19 without his goatee. He slight big glasses wearing his backpack in front of him on his chest, like a nervous tourist. He is knee deep in water. On one side of the canal is a growing crowd of Afghans on the other, our soldiers and behind the soldiers is the path to get into the airport.

1 (4m 43s):
They can know it's soldiers named no. Okay. I'm waiting.

3 (4m 51s):
Actually. How Jamal came to be standing in a canal is hours earlier. He'd received an email with instructions for what to do, how to get out. He forwarded the email to Kirk.

1 (5m 3s):
Here's the email that Edgewell got at 3:01 AM from, from the Canadian government.

3 (5m 12s):
Kirk, read the key

1 (5m 13s):
Part important instructions. Go to the Baron hotel immediately. All caps do not wear Western style clothing. All caps be prepared to wait for many hours once inside, go to the garden and sit under the Canadian flag and wait for Canadian officials, bring food and water. If possible.

3 (5m 38s):
That's the official process. Here. Get yourself to a hotel garden, sit down under a flag, do this immediately. Somehow bring water. Jamal and his family had gone to the place they thought was the Baron hotel, but it was the wrong place. No Canadian officials. They could see seem to be all British people. So Kirk drew a map, looking at Google maps with the root asthma, his parents and his brother needed to take through more crowds to get to the right place. The canal, believe it or not was the right place or as close as they were able to get. The canal is next to the Baron hotel. And there was a Canadian soldier there.

3 (6m 19s):
They could see him. He had a little Canadian flag on his uniform, but he kept stepping away.

1 (6m 26s):
Okay. Is he back if he's talking to someone else right now? Okay.

3 (6m 37s):
Atmel is trying to get the soldiers' attention because as I keep saying, <inaudible> is a citizen of Canada. He is not a supplicant. He has the right papers, but <inaudible> who comes across as a cautious rule, following sort of person with his face mask pulled neatly under his chin in case he's ever inside again, that young man is stuck in a canal.

1 (6m 59s):
I'll be patient. Don't worry.

3 (7m 7s):
Other people in this same situation might have no trouble bellowing to get someone's attention. Soft-spoken <inaudible> is saying, excuse me, excuse me, Canada. The soldier is talking to other people or walking even further away. <inaudible> asks what words he should be calling out.

2 (7m 26s):
What's a good word to call them. We got that up at

1 (7m 34s):
You. When, when you get an opportunity <inaudible> okay. Can you hear me? No. I'm going to stay on the line with you. When, when he finishes with this guy, you need to say that there is a, a friend of a Canadian minister on the phone. Can you okay. A friend of a Canadian minister on the phone.

3 (8m 2s):
It's true. Kirk, through his wife is friends with a Canadian member of parliament, a minister who at that point was fast asleep and had no idea. This was happening. Kirk is trying to think of anything he can tell Jamal to say, to get the soldiers' attention. Name-dropping yes, sure. Definitely.

2 (8m 35s):
I read the for him.

1 (8m 37s):
Okay. I don't want you to just say Canada. I want you to say I'm a Canadian citizen. He doesn't know me. He's putting trust in me. I don't know him. I've already pushed him to fight through the crowd and jump into the canal.

3 (8m 59s):
That was your idea to get in the canal. Yes.

1 (9m 3s):
By the time of that phone call, that was already, when he got to the backend of that crowd and saw thousands of people. He said, I can't do this. There's no, I have my parents here. There, we're not, we can't get to the front. We're just going to have to try another day or, or wait for you to work your connections, to get the Canadians, to come out and, and, and find us. And I told them, this is over text, but I was like, they're not, they're not going to come out for you. You have to push through that crowd.

1 (9m 44s):
And his sister was on the thread and a couple other people who are, have been, who had been trying to help him. And they were messaging me saying, go easy on him. He was in the hospital last week with a panic attack. He's you know, he's, you know, they were basically saying he's already at the breaking point, but I knew that if he couldn't get within earshot of a Canadian soldier, he had, there was, there was nothing not knowing if he gives up today, whether or not the doors will be completely shut tomorrow.

1 (10m 25s):
And the other thing that is, is weighing on, on me, but that I'm not telling him is this dread of one rogue Talib opening fire into that crowd. One IED going off in that crowd

3 (10m 42s):
Less than 24 hours after we talked about him was detonated outside the airport. And someone started shooting into the crowd.

1 (10m 49s):
So everything came down to trying to get him in the right point on earth, where his voice would be loud enough to be heard and strong enough to be listened to you're in the right position.

2 (11m 8s):
What,

1 (11m 8s):
What do you okay?

2 (11m 12s):
I think they're living up to them.

1 (11m 17s):
Yeah, you have, you have to shout. I'm a Canadian citizen. Do it right now. If you see them, Not Canadian, say Canadian citizen, You can't just say Canadian nudge. Well, you have to say Canadian citizen.

2 (11m 38s):
Okay.

1 (11m 41s):
Keep saying that

3 (11m 47s):
If you have sharp ears, you can hear Kirk swearing under his breath. All during this call, basically cursing his way through the stress

1 (11m 54s):
What's happening.

2 (11m 58s):
I think that I should increase in grade three.

3 (12m 1s):
He's saying the crowd is increasing. It's increasing.

2 (12m 4s):
The codes are increasing.

1 (12m 6s):
I know. I know, but you are in the right. Your, in the right position. You can't give up right now.

2 (12m 14s):
Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. But my father found out about

1 (12m 21s):
How far away are they?

3 (12m 23s):
Kirk is groaning because he didn't realize Alma was separated from his family, his parents and his brother at this point. Even if they're not that far away right now while Alma and Kirk are focused on connecting with this soldier, as well as family could get pushed out of sight. As the crowd keeps swelling and pushing forward, a bad scenario would be odd. ML ends up getting out, but his family stays lost in the throng on these group threads. These chats, Kirk is following they're full of stories of family members getting separated. Adrielle hadn't wanted to bring his parents and his brother into this gross canal, unless it was clear. They were going to get out. He said, the bottom of the canal had these slippery stones and he worried one of his parents would fall and injure themselves.

3 (13m 6s):
Now there's no time for <inaudible> to break off and go get them. He has to keep trying to reach this soldier.

1 (13m 12s):
You can't lose that spot. You have that. You had that soldier right in front of you. He's going to come back

2 (13m 21s):
So far. I think it's simple.

1 (13m 31s):
You have to, you have to stay in that spot and wait for him to come back. The fact that you just sent me that picture.

2 (13m 39s):
Okay.

1 (13m 40s):
Call me back. As soon as he gets close. Okay?

3 (13m 47s):
Just in case anyone is finding their ire at this point, focused on Canada. I want to state the obvious and say that in the big picture, this was our show. The United States, our plans, our timeline. Those were dictating the overall scene at the airport. Jamal and Kirk got back on the phone. They'd been at it for almost six hours.

1 (14m 9s):
Do not let them go away without saying you're a Canadian citizen. And a minister is on the phone.

3 (14m 19s):
Long minute goes by where Kirk can't tell what's happening. <inaudible> keeps asking him. Please wait, please wait.

1 (14m 30s):
Don't don't worry about me. Just do not let them leave without saying what I told you.

3 (14m 42s):
Another half minute Osmo is fighting off despair. The soldier isn't responding to him.

2 (14m 49s):
He is not responding.

1 (14m 53s):
What did you say? Are you still close to him?

3 (15m 13s):
Another agonizing minute and a half. And then

1 (15m 18s):
Suddenly, Jamal, can you hear me? Hello? Hello? Who's this? Hello? Yes. Who am I talking to? This is Kirk Johnson. I've served at USAID in Iraq. Sorry. Can you hear me?

2 (15m 36s):
Yes.

1 (15m 36s):
I can hear you. Okay. You have four Canadian citizens there. I'm calling on behalf of Melanie Joly. Who's a minister of economic development for Canada. You have four Canadian citizens. They were asked to go in there right now and that they've been pushed back several times so far.

2 (15m 51s):
In the meantime, there's a lot of people here we will process.

1 (15m 56s):
I understand, but I just need your assurance that they're going to get through because the, the one of the group is in poor health. So, and I know that Melanie Joly is she's. The minister is wanting. She wants it. I didn't need to be able to tell the minister that there through,

2 (16m 15s):
I'm going to look at his paperwork and they will be

1 (16m 18s):
Okay. I'm going to stay on the line. Thank you for doing that, sir. I appreciate it. I know. I know you got your hands full. I know. I'll tell them to say out. I'm grateful to you for your help, sir. Thank you.

2 (16m 31s):
Okay. I'll give him the

1 (16m 33s):
Phone back. Okay. I'm going to stay on the line.

3 (16m 38s):
It's not clear if the Canadian minister gambit carried any sway with this soldier, he mostly sounds like he wanted to get off the phone and get back to work, but <inaudible> finally had his attention and what a frightening degree of perseverance. It took odd mile to get to this point where he could just hand someone, his papers and even perseverance. Most likely wouldn't have been enough without luck, without connections to these groups. Kirk and others are part of, or to someone else with power. How many people in the crowd around Jamal had perseverance, even courage, but none of the lines.

1 (17m 17s):
Okay. Yeah. Can you hear me? Okay. Get your family close to you. Okay. I don't care. Tell them, tell them to come. You may have to wait a while, but do not, do not be separate from them now. Do not move where you are. Okay. I can send you. Okay.

3 (17m 39s):
Kirk and I did this interview a day and a half after this call with <inaudible> ended. And Kirk was still waiting to hear if Jamal and his family made it out. Then finally he got a text from, it, came through as Kirk and I were finishing up our interview.

1 (17m 53s):
He, he, he texted me, hang on. Oh my God,

3 (18m 8s):
Man.

1 (18m 11s):
They just got on a plane,

3 (18m 14s):
Their family they're on a plane. Yes. There's one part about Jamal story that took Kirk's breath away. Even in the retelling, it was the way Jamal ended up finding his brother after he made contact with the soldier because Osmo, his family as Kirk had feared, had gotten lost in the crowd.

1 (18m 40s):
You don't have to have brothers to, to feel this, but my brothers are my best friends. And the way that I subsequently found out he was able to get them was that he just called from the canal into this crowd, asking his fellow Afghans to, to start calling his brother's name. And they all started shouting it out. And that's how they found his, his brother and parents. And so they then got into the canal from there and joined him. You know, it's like, you know, like I want to feel, I want to feel like proud about this and feel like this is a good story, but it's just, there's so much more suffering that has happened.

1 (19m 36s):
And people that aren't getting through. I don't want people who hear this to think that, you know, people who are sort of discomfited by what they're hearing about this who may not really be close to the situation or understand what's going on to be like, oh, Hey, I heard it's bad, but Hey, all right, good. Now this guy, this has a happy ending. This has a happy ending for this guy in his family. And for a small percentage of the lucky few that are getting through, I, I fear that we're, you know, we're not gonna really see the full toll of this when this is all over.

1 (20m 21s):
And we're, we're just about at the end of this whole disaster and at the start of something much darker. I fear,

3 (20m 33s):
I fear that too.

4 (20m 48s):
Nancy

0 (20m 48s):
Updike is one of the producers of our show coming up. Some of our favorite stories we've run about getting out, including a, choose your own adventure story about getting out of a relationship. Yeah. Choose your own adventure on the radio. Somehow that's in a minute from Chicago public radio. When our program continues,

5 (21m 7s):
This podcast is supported by the New York historical society. Download the New York historical societies, new podcast for the ages with host David M Rubenstein to explore the rich and complex history of the United States and beyond with some of the country's foremost historians, journalists and authors for the ages covers a wide range of topics from presidential biographies to the nation's founding to the people who shaped the American story across the centuries. Listen now on apple, Spotify, or wherever you get your podcast

6 (21m 37s):
Streams, Joe time and paramount plus together for just 9 99 a month for a limited time, watch it all. Star-studded movies live sports and groundbreaking originals from the shy and billions to the Palm patrol movie and star Trek discovery. Plus the NFL Showtime championship boxing UA, and more it's everything you want now together. Get the bundle and save paramount plus and Showtime sign up now@paramountplus.com slash Showtime bundle.

0 (22m 9s):
If this American life I'm David Kestenbaum in fiberglass this week on our show, getting out stories of people, making an out of seemingly impossible situations or trying to anyway, act two, you can check out anytime you like, but you can never leave. So one of the things about trying to get out of an intense situation is that it can feel like every little decision you make might take you down the wrong path. Back when she was a teenager, one of our coworkers, Elma baker found herself in that position. She was trapped in a hotel room with her siblings, held there by a stranger. What happened was their family was all staying at this Marriott, but there's such a big family that the parents and the oldest kid were in one room Elena and the three other kids were next door in their own room.

0 (22m 53s):
There was Elena who was 14 at the time, Julia, who is 10 Britton, who is eight and Jill, who is five. And Alma was sharing a bed with her Elma. Who's in eighth grade at the time was more or less in charge. And then one night they're all asleep. It's the middle of the night. She told this all to IRA.

7 (23m 10s):
My memory is that it's like, I saw like a sliver of light, which is what woke me up and the sound of the door closing. And there was the feeling that there was someone standing at the foot of the bed. So I reached over and I turned the lamp on and there was this woman and she looked startled to see us. And the first thing she said was, you're just children. I didn't expect you to be children.

0 (23m 44s):
So that's pretty creepy. Right? What did you make of their saying that

7 (23m 49s):
I instantly felt like this is an unsafe situation.

0 (23m 58s):
Describe her.

7 (23m 60s):
I remember she was my mom's age. So she was probably in her forties and brown hair. White kind of like frumpy looking like somebody you'd sit next to on the bus or something.

0 (24m 15s):
Did she seem menacing?

7 (24m 17s):
She seemed really distressed. She was crying too. She's crying. She was crying. Yeah. She cried the whole time. She was there.

0 (24m 28s):
She's crying. And she said your children, I didn't expect you to be children. And to the other kids get up,

7 (24m 36s):
Everyone's wide awake. Like I distinctly remember my little brothers and sisters faces cause their eyes were just huge, but no one said anything.

0 (24m 48s):
And are they sitting up to, are they just like laying flat

7 (24m 50s):
Still? They're still laying flat. Like nobody moved.

0 (25m 2s):
Yeah,

7 (25m 3s):
She's talking right. This isn't how it was supposed to be. And she's also crying and she's, she's talking to herself. I remember it being very hard to follow what, what she was saying. Yeah. And eventually I said, I'm sorry. I think you have the wrong room. And she started to cry. And she said, I know, I know I didn't do this. I do this. I don't know why I do this. And then she's pacing back and forth and, and kind of crying. And she sits down on the bed at the foot of the bed.

0 (25m 43s):
Did she seem crazy or did she seem upset?

7 (25m 46s):
I mean, it's interesting. I was, I think I, I was too young and unfamiliar to identify what a crazy person seems like. Yeah. But what I could identify in that moment was that this person was unpredictable.

0 (26m 1s):
So you guys like, oh, I've gotta be really careful how I do this.

7 (26m 4s):
I remember feeling that pressure. And in that moment, very, very, very aware of my brothers and sisters, because they were so little and that something bad could happen to them. And that the way that it wasn't going to happen to them was me. There were no adults there. I think it was the first situation I was ever in. Where there was, you couldn't defer to someone else to keep you safe or tell you what to do and what do I do? And it had that quality of like, like time slows down and you're kind of you're there, but you're also watching.

7 (26m 58s):
And so did then I did the math in my head and I was like, okay, I have a couple options. They are a cry for help scream, but I don't think anyone will hear, I remember looking at how far away the phone was from me. And I realized I can reach and grab the phone and I could call for help. Or even like, like if I could knock on the door where my sister was

0 (27m 27s):
Sister in the connecting room next door, I

7 (27m 30s):
Could, at least they would know something was happening in here and they could get to us in time. But all of that felt like, like an escalation, like I would provoke her. And so what can I do to not provoke her and kind of play up the fact that we're children and what I felt I needed to do was I needed to calm her down and become her friend. And if I could become her friend, she would leave and she wouldn't hurt us.

0 (28m 2s):
Like get her to see you as a person,

7 (28m 5s):
Just like, make her think I was on her side. Cause then it didn't feel like she didn't see us as people. It just felt like it felt dangerous. And I didn't understand why. And I felt like the key to being safe was slowing everything down. And I remember her saying like, I'm really sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm here. I'm sorry I'm doing this. I'm sorry. And I don't remember this, but my brother remembers that. What she said was, I'm sorry, girls, I'm sorry, girls.

7 (28m 47s):
And that his whole memory of this night was just being like, I'm a boy, like so mad. So I asked her, I said, are you okay? Is everything okay? And that's, she kept, you know, going on about how her night was so hard. And I was like, I'm so sorry. That sounds really, really difficult.

0 (29m 11s):
Trying to

7 (29m 12s):
Befriend her. Yeah. This me trying to befriend her, but it's weird. I feel like I was hyper alert to like, if I can understand what's going on with her, I can help solve it. But I couldn't understand because it didn't make any sense.

0 (29m 25s):
Did you feel sorry for,

7 (29m 27s):
I felt concerned for her. Yeah. And, and then she took out her purse and she reached into her purse and then she gripped onto something. And I remember thinking like, oh no, like what? The way, like I thought, like it's like a gun or something or a gun or a knife or something. I remember my heart just dropping. And then she pulled out a hairbrush and then she just started brushing her hair, like at the foot of my bed. And, and at that point I was like, this is really weird. This is like, and I don't think she's going to leave.

7 (30m 14s):
And then she sat on the vanity in front of the mirror at the desk and she took her earrings off and, and she started like taking, she took her shoes off. She like took her coat off. She was just like, like making herself comfortable to like be here now. Right. And so I let her do all that and was sort of listening to her, go on about what was wrong. And then eventually after I felt like enough time had passed, I said, w we, we have to wake up early to go to school tomorrow.

7 (30m 58s):
And we're really tired. So I think we, we should probably go back to bed now. And she was like, I know, I know. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm here. I'm here. I'm sorry. I'm here. And I said, no, it's like, totally fine that you're here. Almost like, you know, thank you for being here, but do you mind leaving now? And so I like very slowly stood up and walked over to the door and like, every moment was like making sure we're safe. And then I opened the door and she said, okay, okay. And she put her shoes on and then she started to leave. And just as she was about to leave, I said, oh, you forgot your earrings.

7 (31m 42s):
And then she was like, oh, I started crying all over again. Like it was this huge thing, walked over to get the earrings and then sat back down on the bed. And I remember thinking like, God, why did I bring up the earrings? Like we were so close to being safe. So then, then the whole thing, it basically, the whole thing started all over again where I had to like, listen to her cry, like calm her down. And then finally I'm like, you know, we have to wake up early to go to school. Do you mind leaving? And I walked her to the door and she walked out of the door. And then like, as soon as she was out of the door, I just like, like push the door as hard as I could to close it.

7 (32m 25s):
And when I pushed it, like, like basically like slammed it shut. She screamed at the top of her lungs. And is there like a bolt or something on the door? I think I did bolted after I slammed it shut. And then I heard her screaming in the hallway and then she ran down the hallway screaming and then she ran back towards the door screaming. And that must have been terrifying. It was so scary. And then, then it got, was quiet. And then I heard this loud, like, she's like banging on the door, like as hard as you can. Right. And then I hear a voice and it's my dad. And my dad's like open the door, open the door. And I realized it's not her banging on the door.

7 (33m 6s):
So I opened the door and my dad's standing there. And he's like, did you hear someone screaming in the hallway? So then I tell him this whole story. I'm like, there's this woman. She was in our room. I tell them all the details. And he is furious. He was so mad. And then he told us to stay there, shut the door, don't open the door. And then he went downstairs and talked to the hotel about it. Yeah. And what did he learn? They tell him that she had been outside. She was crying. They asked if she was a guest there. She said, yes. Her name was Elena baker. And so they looked up the name, Elena baker,

0 (33m 45s):
Elena baker. And her name is Elena baker? Yes. Okay.

7 (33m 48s):
But I don't believe this part of the story. I think someone at the hotel just said this to him to cover,

0 (33m 53s):
And then they gave her a key

7 (33m 55s):
And then they gave her a key. Yep. And so the hotel offered him, you know, the whole stay for free, everything for free. And he's like, I don't care about your money. Like I want you guys to do a formal investigation as to how this happened. Wow. That's

0 (34m 9s):
Such a white man. Takes charge, move my desk. Not

7 (34m 12s):
White

0 (34m 14s):
Point taken

7 (34m 18s):
Hispanic, man. I was just thinking

0 (34m 20s):
Like, like you just never hear like, somebody be like, I demand a formal investigation. You know what I mean? It's like a, it's like a, he's a member of Congress or something, you know,

7 (34m 28s):
Anyway. But that's what I mean. That's totally how my dad, like that's my dad

0 (34m 31s):
Point taken. Okay.

7 (34m 33s):
And so they do a formal investigation, which they then send to my dad. And

0 (34m 38s):
After you've gone from the hotel.

7 (34m 40s):
Exactly. And in it, there's a picture of the woman. And then there's her history. She had been in a psychiatric hospital and escape that night come to the hotel. And she had a long history of breaking into people's homes. And like, he was not certain about this parts. I don't, he doesn't remember it. He doesn't remember. But he says that he remembers there being like she had attacked people when she'd broken into their homes. That's what he remembers. That's what he remembers. Yeah. Yeah.

0 (35m 18s):
Part of the story, the investigation, who the woman was and only found that out a couple of years ago when she asked her dad about it at the time back when she was 14, her parents kept all that from her and a brother and sisters. They didn't want them to dwell on it. I make them afraid of the world. They didn't want that evening to become a bigger deal than it already was. And on necess today that worked.

7 (35m 42s):
And it's funny, I've even as I've told this story over the years, people are like, oh, that's so traumatic or that's crazy. I don't think of it like that.

0 (35m 50s):
So

7 (35m 51s):
It just, it just was sort of like a, because nothing bad happened. It has no category for me. If that makes sense. It was it's been easier. It was easier to just think like, oh, this one, this weird thing happened one night when we were in a hotel

0 (36m 9s):
In retrospect, would you have preferred if they had told you back when you were 14?

7 (36m 12s):
No, I think it's good that I got to live in a world that I think has safe.

0 (36m 17s):
On the other hand, she says, if they had made clear how much danger she was in the family's memory of it and her memory of it, wouldn't be over this weird event with no category. This random thing that happened one night instead, it would fit squarely into the category called victory, solid win for 14 year old girl on a big ruler, just family. When she got that stranger out of their hotel room without anybody getting hurt. And I'm not say she would have liked that when, when you're trapped inside of a room with an unpredictable person, really all you got is your wits and your ability to read the situation and your judgment, the guessing what a work, nice to show everybody that even a kid can make the right call. Sometimes the pay attention closely enough.

0 (37m 6s):
Ella baker, one of the producers of our show talking to IRA glass At three, you can't go your own way in her memoir in the dream house, Carmen, Maria Machado wrote this chapter. That's set up like a choose your own adventure story, which I just thought was so smart. When I read it in it, she imagines different choices. She could have made with a partner that she's in a bad relationship with an abusive relationship. And one of the things that captures is just the mental energy that somebody in that situation can end up putting into, trying to figure out what they should do or not do to avoid setting off their partner.

0 (37m 46s):
A heads up that this excerpt includes a scene with sexual content. It's read for us by actors, Zoe winters,

8 (37m 52s):
Page one, you wake up and the air is Milky and bright. The room glows with a kind of effervescent contentment, despite the boxes and clothes and dishes. You think to yourself, this is the kind of morning you could get used to. When you turn over, she is staring at you, the luminous innocence of the light curdles in your stomach. You don't remember ever going from awake to afraid so quickly. You are moving all night. She says your arms and elbows touched me. You kept me awake. If you apologize profusely, go to page two.

8 (38m 33s):
If you tell her to wake you up next time, your elbows touch and your sleep. Go to page three. If you tell her to calm down, go to page five. I choose page two, page two. I'm so sorry. You tell her. I really didn't mean to. I just moved my arms around a lot in my sleep. You try to be light about it. Did you know? My dad does the same thing. The sleeping damsel Swoon. So weird. I must have, are you really sorry? She says, I don't think you are. I am you say you want the first impression of the morning to return to you. It's freshness. It's light.

8 (39m 13s):
I really am prove it. How stopped doing it? I told you I can't fuck you. She says and gets out of bed. You follow her all the way to the kitchen. Go to page seven. Page seven breakfast, you scramble some eggs, make some toast. She eats mechanically and leaves the plate on the table. Clean that up. She says, as she goes to the bedroom to get dressed, if you stare mutely at the dirty plate and all you can think about is Clara Barton, the feminist icon of your youth who had to teach herself how to be a nurse and endured abuse from men telling her what to do at every turn.

8 (40m 0s):
And you remember being so angry and running to your parents and asking them if women still got told what was right or proper, and your mom said yes, and your dad said no. And you for the first time had an inkling of how complicated and terrible the world was. Go to page 10. If you do, as you are told, go to page eight. If you tell her to do it herself, go to page five, page five. Are you kidding? You'd never do this. Don't try to convince any of these people that you'd stand up for yourself for one second. Get out of here, go to the next chapter.

8 (40m 42s):
You're out. Wait. No, let's try that again. I go to page eight, page eight. As you're washing the dishes you think to yourself, maybe I should put a tack on my forehead. Maybe I should be a better person. Go to page one. Page one, you wake up in the air is Milky and bright. The room glows with the kind of effervescent contentment, despite the boxes and clothes and dishes. You think to yourself, this is the kind of morning. If you get used to, when you turn over, she is staring at you, the luminous innocence of the light curdles in your stomach.

8 (41m 22s):
You don't remember ever going from awake to afraid so quickly. You are moving all night. She says your arms and elbows touched me. You kept me awake. If you apologize, go to page two. If you tell her to calm down, go to page five. If you tell her to wake you up next time, your elbows touch her in your sleep. Go to page three. I go to page three, page three, baby. If this ever happens in the future, you can always wake me up and I'll go to the couch. I promise I really don't mean to do it. I don't have any memory of it. I can control how I move in my sleep. You are such a fucking cunt. She says you never take responsibility for anything.

8 (42m 3s):
All you have to do is wake me up. You say a kind of incoherent desperation, zipping through your skull. That's it. Wake me up and tell me to move or sleep on the couch. And I will do it. I swear to you. Fuck you. She says and gets out of bed. You follow her to the kitchen, go to page seven, page seven breakfast. He scrambled some eggs, make some toast. She eats mechanically and leaves the plate on the table. Clean that up. She says that she goes to the bedroom to get dressed. If you do, as you are told, go to page eight. If you tell her to do it herself, go to page five. If you stare mutely at the dirty plate and all you can think about is Clara Barton, the feminist icon of your youth, who had to teach herself how to be a nurse and endured abuse from men telling her what to do at every turn.

8 (42m 48s):
And you remember being so angry and running to your parents and asking them if women still got told what was right or proper, and your mom said yes, and your dad said no. And you for the first time had an inkling of how complicated and terrible the world was. Go to page 10, Page 10, that night, she see you as you lie there, mutely praying for it to be over praying. She won't notice you're gone. You avoided your body so many times by now that it is force of habit, reflexive as a sigh, it reminds you of your first boyfriend who DUL watching porn, how he read it and read it.

8 (43m 37s):
And then every so often lifted the remote to align something you couldn't see. Once you turned your head over the lip of the bed and saw a tangle of upside down limbs and your brain couldn't make sense of them. You never looked again. You would just lie there. Silently watching his face, move over you. It was like being unfolded beneath the on of the planetarium. As a kid, the sped up rotation of the earth, the movement of the stars, the constellations melting into and out of being You shut her and moan with precision.

8 (44m 18s):
She turns off the lights. You watch the darkness until the darkness leaves you or you leave it To sleep. Go to page 14, to dream about the present. Go to page 13, to dream about the future. Go to page 12, to dream about the past, go to page 11. I want to dream about the past. I choose page 11, page 11. The first time it happened, the first time she yelled at you so much, you were crying within 30 seconds from waking a record.

8 (45m 2s):
She said the first 10 minutes of the day, I'm not responsible for anything. I say, the struck you as poetic. You even wrote it down. Sure. You would find a place for it in a book. Maybe go to page 14, Page nine. You shouldn't be on this page. There's no way to get here from the choices given to you. Do you think that by flipping through this chapter linearly, you'd find some kind of relief. Don't you get it? All of this shit already happened and you can't make it not happen no matter what you do.

8 (45m 48s):
Do you want a picture of a fawn? Will that help? Okay. Here's a fun. She is small and dappled and loose lagged. She hears a sound freezes and then bolts. She knows what to do. She knows there's somewhere safer. She can be go to page 10. I don't want to go to page 10. Page six. You shouldn't be on this page. There's no way to get here from the choices given to you. You flipped here because you got sick of the cycle.

8 (46m 30s):
You wanted to get out. You're smarter than me. Go to page 10. Fine. I got to page 10, page 10. That night. She fucks you as you lie there. Mutely praying for it to be over praying. She won't notice you're gone. You avoided your body so many times by now that it is force of habit, reflexive as a sigh, it reminds you of your movement of the stars, the constellations melting into and out of being you shut her and moan with precision. She turns off the lights. You watch the darkness until the darkness leaves you or you leave it to sleep.

8 (47m 14s):
Go to page 14, to dream about the past, go to page 11, to dream about the present. Go to page 13, page 13, you shouldn't be here, but it's okay. It's a dream. She can't find you here in a minute. You're going to wake up and everything is going to seem like it's the same, but it's not. There's a way out. Are you listening to me? You can't forget. When you wake up, you can't go to page 14. I want to dream about the future. I go to page 12, page 12. It's going to be all right.

8 (47m 56s):
One day, your wife will gently adjust your arm. If it touches her face at night, soothingly, straightening it while kissing you. Sometimes you will wake up just enough to notice. Other times, she'll only tell you in the morning, it's the kind of morning you could get used to go to page 14. Page 14, you wake up and the air is Milky and bright. The room lows with the kind of effervescent contentment, despite the boxes and clothes and dishes. You think to yourself, this is the kind of morning you could get used to. When you turn over, she is staring at you, the luminous innocence of the light curdles in your stomach. You don't remember ever going from awake to afraid so quickly. You were moving all night.

8 (48m 37s):
She says your arms and elbows touched me. You kept me awake. If you apologize profusely, go to page two. If you tell her to wake you up next time, your elbows touch her in your sleep. Go to page three. If you toss back the blankets from your body and hit the floor with both feet and tear through the house like it's Pamplona. And when you get to the driveway, your car keys are already in your hand and you drive away with a theatrical squeal of the tires. Never to return again, go to page 15, page 15. That's not how it happened, but okay. We can pretend I'll give it to you. Just this once. Turn to page 16, page 16 and end in the pit of it.

8 (49m 22s):
You fantasize about dying, tripping on a sidewalk and stumbling into the path of an oncoming car. A gas leak silently offing you in your sleep. A machete wielding madman on public transit, falling down the stairs, but drunk. So you flop limb over limb like a marionette and feel no pain. Anything to make it stop. You have forgotten that leaving is an option.

0 (49m 56s):
Zoe winter is reading a chapter from Carmen. Maria Machado is memoir in the dream house. Carmen has a comic series out now called the low, low woods from DC comics. You can see Zoe winters in season three of HBO succession, which is out in October act for blue kid on the block. This last story is about what happens after you get out. In this particular case. When you get out of Rochester, New York, the kid in this story who we're going to call Leo, it's not his real name. His family had moved to an different state and he was not happy about it. At the time, Leo was just starting seventh grade. He was having a harder time finding his place in middle school than other middle school kids, because you know, he was new to town, but also because Leo still loved Rochester.

0 (50m 43s):
He loved his school there. He loved his friends, suddenly everything about his life was different. And according to Leo, much worse, the signature on his Gmail account. Now red Rochester is much better in big red letters. Sarah Canuck knows Leo and his parents. She visited them at home to see how Leo was doing.

10 (51m 2s):
This is how much Leo does not want to be here. When I got to his house, he was on the sofa with a laptop investigating Greyhound bus schedules. His mother was going to drive him and his sister back to Rochester for the Columbus day weekend, but not until Saturday morning. And Leo wanted to get there Friday. For more time with his friends, a multi-stage negotiation followed with his dad for one thing, a bus ticket cost money.

11 (51m 25s):
That's not a problem. I hope that wasn't a problem for you. No, but there isn't one. There isn't one. That's not a six 15 in the morning. I didn't want me to miss school. On Friday, the bus takes eight hours. Even if you left at noon, you get it. You're going to do the math. That's excellent.

10 (51m 40s):
Nevermind that the bus takes twice as long as driving and nevermind that Leo would be alone and have to change buses. And then his parents had no intention of letting him go through with this plan. But it's the kind of negotiation you indulge when your kid is miserable. And Leo is miserable. He told me right away, he was. And that he had been from the moment he got here in August. Is this the first time in your life where you felt like you've been sad about something for this long?

11 (52m 7s):
I think so. Except for maybe when my other cat died, my old cat.

10 (52m 12s):
And does this feel worse than that?

11 (52m 18s):
I've never had long periods of said until now. I don't know. I don't know anyone here really. And I think it's just everything in general. What's overwhelming.

10 (52m 37s):
Back in Rochester. Leo had known all his best friends since kindergarten or before they played together at school. After school, on weekends, everybody knew everybody, everything was comfortable. And as a sixth grader in his old school, he and his friends were at the top of the heap. They were green sashes in the morning and got to be dorm monitors for the younger kids coming into the building. So imagine now Leo takes a school bus for the first time to his new school, a sprawling one-story building full of sixth, seventh, and eighth graders. Leo is small for his age, only a hair taller than his sister. Who's only nine years old on day one. He knows exactly no one,

11 (53m 12s):
Well, as much louder than my old school, much louder people talking people closing and opening lockers, people walking. It was just noise. Just older kids, more kids. Because my old school was tiny.

10 (53m 30s):
Leo is between he's old enough to decipher Greyhound bus schedules, but not old enough to actually travel on one by himself and old enough to know that if he's going to survive in middle school, he has to make friends. But then making those friends stands to be significantly more complicated than it was back in Rochester. Leo sister Auden is in fourth grade. He says, she's not having as hard a time of,

11 (53m 52s):
But she hasn't been alive. As long as she hasn't made us deep connections. And she's already met some, a friend in her school. I think it's easier to make friends in elementary school than in middle school. Oh really? Why? Because people care less about who you are.

10 (54m 8s):
What do you mean by

11 (54m 9s):
That? The older you get, the more you judge people on their walks, their background, their, how they act like what cool is for kids. Because in kindergarten you could just walk up to someone and say, do you want to be my friend? And they would, then that would be it, but it's harder. I just think people are more wary before they open up. They like on first grade, I, if I met someone, I wouldn't really care who they were. I would just care if they were nice or not.

10 (54m 48s):
The day I interviewed him. Leo had a couple of breakthroughs. He emailed his parents during the school day to tell them the first piece of good news they'd had from him until that day, the emails had mostly been three desperate words. I feel awful without even a period at the end to make the feeling finite. It was an endless, awful, but on this Thursday, he wrote to tell them the mashed potatoes they serve in the cafeteria were great. Followed by four exclamation points. Second. And this was the big news. He asked another kid. If he wanted to come over. Leo told me, he thought about it first for a few days. And finally emailed the boy whose name is Devin, another seventh grader. But now Leo didn't want to call Devin's house to finalize a plan. He dreaded the awkwardness of the phone.

10 (55m 30s):
So his dad called Devin's parents introduced himself as Leo's father

12 (55m 34s):
With your son, Evan. And we were Devin. I'm so sorry, Devin. I'm getting the evil look for my son. I apologize. But we're hoping Devin can come over on Sunday. Thanks. I panicked. How'd that go?

11 (55m 52s):
Well,

10 (55m 59s):
I thought Leo might be upset about it. Maybe he gets silky, but here he was cracking up joking with his dad. It was such a relief to hear him laugh after he'd been so solid in our interview. And I thought this is all going to be okay. He's going to snap out of it. He's almost there. And afternoon with Devin is going to do the trick. Then Sunday came.

11 (56m 18s):
Okay. Now I have three health. Again, you can tell you a Wolf, okay? I'm going to tell my Wolf to attack

10 (56m 25s):
Them. We are taught Devin how to play Dungeons and dragons

11 (56m 28s):
And the Wolf lands on its feet. I am so weird

10 (56m 37s):
On the drive home, Leo and Devin talked nonstop, a general ratatat one-upmanship emanating from deep inside a computer game by

13 (56m 45s):
I am. What else? Warlock. Warlocks are fun. And you summon your MPS. Yeah. You start with, oh, right. I like, I had a goblin showman. I one night all through it and I can turn into a chat at level eight, which is nice. And at level 12, you to bear.

10 (57m 5s):
Yeah, by the time they dropped Devin off, they were giggling.

13 (57m 9s):
I can't respond to whatever you call. He said he didn't even pick them. We can call them football. Thanks for coming over. Thanks. Thank you for inviting me. See you tomorrow.

10 (57m 25s):
So a perfect day, right? Leo, his parents were relieved hopeful, but no, it's Wednesday. You had your friend over on Sunday. How did it go?

11 (57m 36s):
One. Okay. Yeah. When, okay.

10 (57m 40s):
Has it changed anything about being here

11 (57m 45s):
A bit? I don't think very much, but a little bit. Yeah.

10 (57m 49s):
What's changed. What's the little bit

11 (57m 52s):
Then I know someone at school. It helps. Not all that much, but sort of. Yeah.

10 (58m 7s):
And this is when I realized I'd underestimated. The depth of Leo's glue that he greets every morning of every school day with dread. And not because he's being bullied or anyone's being mean to him, it feels

11 (58m 18s):
'cause. I know that I have the whole day I had to me and then I have the next day and the next day and the next day and the next day. And the next day ahead of me.

10 (58m 30s):
Does it pass once you get to school?

11 (58m 33s):
No, not really. It usually increases to a climax around lunchtime and then I actually have been throwing up recently and then it just stays that level of sickness until I get home. You're

10 (58m 48s):
Kidding me. You're throwing up at school.

11 (58m 50s):
Yeah.

10 (58m 52s):
That's awful in the bathroom or

11 (58m 53s):
Where? Yeah, in the bathroom. Usually at lunch, I feel really bad and I go to the bathroom and I throw up, has

10 (59m 0s):
That happened this week?

11 (59m 2s):
Today? It did.

10 (59m 4s):
Do you tell your parents, like, I don't want to go. I don't want to go or do you just, you know, you have to see, you don't say anything.

11 (59m 10s):
No. I throw a screaming fit every morning. Yeah, pretty much. I didn't today.

10 (59m 16s):
What was different about this morning? How come you didn't

11 (59m 18s):
Today? I felt resigned. I knew that I would have to go anyways. So I gave up

10 (59m 30s):
Here's the curse of being almost 13 old enough to understand his life will supposedly get better with time, but not all enough to really believe he's going to feel any differently than he does right this minute. Since making friends with Devin, Leo is one step toward being the kid. He wants to be someone with pals, someone who's comfortable again, but he says right now, he's just worried. He's going to be throwing up all year.

0 (1h 0m 5s):
Sarah caning. She's the host of cereal in the years, since this story first ran, Leo has made many friends. They've become immersed in the world of theater and has finally forgiven their parents for the move. Leo did return to New York though. They graduated from NYU. This past spring Today's program was produced by Diane Wu and Lena. <inaudible> the people who put the show together today include BIM out of womany Elma baker, Ben Calhoun, Dana Chivas, Sean Cole, Viva to Kornfeld, Seth Lin, stone Nelson, Catherine Raymondo, Nadia, Raymond, Christopher swift, Tala, Matt Tierney, Nancy uptake, and Chloe Weiner, our managing editor.

0 (1h 1m 1s):
Sarah Abdurrahman. Our executive editor is a manual Barre special. Thanks today to Harrison. Nesbitt will Yurman Hillary Appleman and Maximo Berryman chase our website, this American life.org, where you can stream our archive of over 700 episodes for absolutely free. Again, this American life.org. This American life is delivered to public radio stations by PRX, the public radio exchange. Thanks to our boss, our glass, you know, he says he's on vacation, but he keeps coming into the studio, making these tiny little edits to our stories.

7 (1h 1m 33s):
I'm really sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm here. I'm sorry. I'm doing this. I'm stopping.

0 (1h 1m 38s):
We'll be back next week with more stories. This American life