0 (0s):
Support for this American life comes from capital. One. Searching for coupon codes is kind of a bummer. So make saving online a breeze with capital one. Shopping capital one. Shopping is a free tool that instantly searches for available coupon codes and automatically applies them at checkout. Just download capital one, shopping to your computer and let it do the work for you so easy. And you don't even need a capital one card to use it. Capital one, shopping what's in your wallet, savings and available coupons. Very

1 (32s):
From WB easy Chicago. It's this American life. I'm Sean Cole sitting in for IRA glass. Back when Erin was in high school, she had this friend, Josh, they known each other practically since they were born. Their parents were friends. This was in a small small city in Wisconsin. Fun was going under this park with Buffalo in it and throwing them hunks of bread. Anyway, Aaron was 15. Josh was a year older and one particular day he gave

2 (59s):
Me a mixed tape, like a mixed CD rom,

1 (1m 2s):
Just to say, this was long enough ago that the word rom naturally followed the word CD. We're talking maybe 2007, 2008. I can see,

2 (1m 9s):
I can see the CD

1 (1m 10s):
Rom. You can see it in your mind's eye. You mean you're not looking at

2 (1m 14s):
No, certainly not. I can see like Sharpie scribbled all over it and in sort of scrawled handwriting and squiggles is, is what I, what I can recall.

1 (1m 23s):
Josh was into theater. He and Aaron did plays together, actually musicals at this little community theater in town.

2 (1m 30s):
He was like, if there was a jock of theater kids, like that would be him. So charismatic, you know, like the star of every play, a really like grabbing everything he could out of life. You could say he was a little bit dramatic.

1 (1m 48s):
She only remembers a couple of the songs that were on the mixed tape. She does remember the exact number of songs for reasons that will become clear in a minute. There were 12 of them, 12 songs

2 (1m 59s):
I do to fully uploaded it into my iTunes and listen to it. And didn't think much of it. I definitely didn't read into it as I should have. I mean, literally,

1 (2m 13s):
Literally, because of what happened next, mind you, this next part was months after he gave her the CD solidly months.

2 (2m 20s):
Oh, I was, I don't know, poking around in my iTunes library, reorganizing something and I'm looking at it and it dawns on me that the song titles spell out like an acrostic. I love you. Aaron,

1 (2m 37s):
Wait a second. Sit down down the left-hand side of the, of the track listing in iTunes, the first letter of every song as you read downward, spelled out, I love you, Aaron.

2 (2m 50s):
Yeah, it did

1 (2m 52s):
Aaron and missed it at first because loading it into iTunes. Somehow the track listing had been reversed. So instead of spelling out, I love you Erin. It said Nero, oui, evil. I not quite as romantic The two songs, she still remembers. One was yellow by Coldplay. That was the Y in U the E at the end of love. Or maybe the beginning of Aaron was elephant love medley from the movie Moulin Rouge, which itself works a little like a mixtape. These two characters, Christian and sateen, just hurl lines from famous love songs, back and forth at each other

4 (3m 37s):
With a chill sweet love, little bit. Don't leave me this word.

1 (3m 54s):
Erin got a cringey about that one. And you might think elephant love medley alone would be a dead giveaway. But to her, that was just Josh being Josh. Like she said, dramatic thing about mix tapes. They're like the emojis of yesteryear. You couldn't always be sure what the intended meaning was or if the recipient would comprehend said, meaning like, does he love me? Or does he just love these songs? So in that way, Josh literally spelling it out, leaving nothing to the imagination was a decent strategy, except even that was lost on Aaron due to some dumb hiccup in the machine.

2 (4m 30s):
It was, you know, it was a lot, it was a lot of emotion, which I felt terrible for missing. Even if you're not going to reciprocate, at least you feel like you should be getting the gesture. Right. But I just hadn't seen

1 (4m 44s):
It. He was strictly a

2 (4m 46s):
Friend. He was a friend. We had like kind of a

1 (4m 49s):
Thing, kind of a thing.

2 (4m 51s):
Yeah. Nurturing a crash. We never dated, but friends for a long

1 (4m 55s):
Time. May I ask it in delicate question?

2 (4m 58s):
You may.

1 (4m 59s):
Did you ever kiss or anything?

2 (5m 2s):
Yeah, I think we probably made out, I mean, I turned out to be gay, so wasn't my cup of tea, but revelations for the years to come, just wasn't the time or gender.

1 (5m 15s):
Right. Who knew? Yeah. Importantly, Aaron has no memory of ever telling Josh he saw his secret message. So he was just left in the dark wondering they stayed friends, moved on each other a few more times after high school, but eventually lost touch. They haven't spoken in years at this point. It's funny that something that deeply felt was communicated and received and yet remained unspoken.

5 (5m 43s):
I always thought of her like her meiny Granger. She was

1 (5m 46s):
Like, my Hermione Granger. This of course is Josh. I didn't bring up the mixed tape right away. When I talked to him first, I just asked him what he remembered about Aaron. She was just

5 (5m 55s):
So smart and well-respected by everybody and could just talk circles around anybody. And yeah, her intelligence was very intimidating to me,

1 (6m 5s):
Intimidating really?

5 (6m 7s):
But in, you know, in a friendly way, she would never show off about it. I had a crush on her to be honest, anytime I would happen to drive by her place, I would, I would think like, ah, the one that got away, you know, that was always like the feeling. But yeah, we were friends.

1 (6m 23s):
Josh, unfortunately doesn't have a copy of the mixed tape anymore either didn't remember any of the songs that were on it, but he did remember spelling out his devotion with the titles. He was bashful about it as a lot of people would be when talking about stuff they did as a teenager,

5 (6m 37s):
I guess I was reading like Dan brown and all of these kind of spy things and just like throwing hidden messages into things. And yeah, it was, I guess I was trying to do it in my own way.

1 (6m 52s):
And you could practically hear him blushing when I told him that he had put elephant love medley on there.

5 (6m 59s):
Yep. That's cause I thought I was Christian for Milan Roche. Yeah. I just loved the kind of level of seriousness he put on romantic love. I, I always had a thing about that and clearly much, much to my detriment at times, honestly. And you know, there's a million ways we could psychoanalyze that, but yeah. Did I, did I tell her that it smelled, that I really know. I hope she found it out. Okay. So here's what

1 (7m 33s):
Aaron brought the CD. I took Josh through everything. Aaron told me after all these years, he was only just now learning what happened with his little DaVinci love code and it flips that she had seen it, the message got through, she just hadn't felt the same.

5 (7m 47s):
Wow. Okay. Well, I guess I couldn't have asked for it to go any better than that. Wait,

1 (7m 53s):
How, how is that it going well? Well,

5 (7m 56s):
Because like it's a happy accident, you know, it's kind of cool that it happened in its own time. I know.

1 (8m 2s):
No, I picture a love, a love Lauren, Josh sitting, sitting in his bedroom, like waiting, like wondering like when is she going to, yeah,

5 (8m 10s):
That's true. As I said, I was kind of intimidated by her, you know? And I think particularly at that time for Aaron to be the person that, you know, I would date was like beyond something that seemed realistic.

1 (8m 27s):
You thought she was out of your league. Totally. I see.

5 (8m 32s):
I wanted her to know somehow on some level, but I also didn't want to push the matter or make her, you know, feel uncomfortable or I don't know. I always thought she'd probably turn me down. I guess I just wanted,

1 (8m 48s):
I mean, other than it being a sort of very opaque and one could argue ineffective way of, of conveying. One's love to put it in an acrostic, a mix tape. I don't think it

5 (8m 57s):
Was ineffective. I challenged that. I think it's like, it's not even about if it got through in terms of a really, really clear communication. It's like if it was there, even if it was out of order, you know, when she first popped it in, it was somehow there. I think in my mind, like energetically, you know, and I still see the transmission, even if it was kind of quiet, you know,

1 (9m 25s):
I don't want to sound too grand, but I think that right there is the power of mixed tapes. When you put them together a certain way or the power of music even, or at least the power that we believe it has, that it can confess devotion on our behalf, even in the form of an exploded puzzle, even the most casual, mixed tape that you make or playlist these days that you make for a friend, you're saying, this is what I like. Or a lot of times, this is what I'm feeling right now in a way you're saying this is who I am. Songs gathered together like that, or a kind of parlance a language. The words are someone else's, but they're also our own. So that's, what's coming up on today's episode kind of a mixed tape of its own because we have a crush on you.

1 (10m 8s):
And because the particular songs in the show tell you a surprising amount about the people listening to them. Can't wait to play them for you. Stay with us. Track line. Just be good to me. So you use music to connect with other people or send a message all a mix tape, but there are all of these other times, of course, when you sort of communicate with yourself through music, putting on a song to revel, some feeling or feeling like this or that band or singer is speaking directly to you. This next collection of songs works like that. And they're all of a piece in a way that writer Nicole Perkins really related to here's.

1 (10m 52s):
Nicole.

6 (10m 54s):
I have always been songs about cheating spouses and their lovers. When women sing them, they tend to be from the point of view of the disappointed and hurt wife in Dolly, Parton's unforgettable Jolene. She begs a woman not to take her man and Shirley Browns, bluesy, confrontational woman to woman. Shirley lets the other woman know she's not letting her ruin her happy home, but how happy can your home be? If you have to call another woman and tell her it's happy songs like these, make the other woman a villain with a capital V those songs weren't for me, I was more interested in auntie songs.

6 (11m 36s):
The songs from the point of view of the other woman, they were what women in the wrong corner of love triangle saying about finding good love in the middle of bad decisions. They were old school, soul and R and B hits that our mothers, aunties and older play cousins used to listen to with shining eyes and far away expressions holding sweating glasses of drinks that were off limits to us kids. We were too young to be singing those songs, but we felt their power. Anyway, we heard the logging and the singers vocal acrobatics, and it moved us. Even if we weren't sure why we'd hear them on the radio play during every quiet storm.

6 (12m 17s):
Sometimes with dedications, like from Denise to that special someone, she says, you know who you are. And then the ultimate side chick Anthem, as we lay by Shirley Murdoch would begin to play a song about everything that happens in the moments before your man has to go home to his wife, Auntie songs or where we got to hear from the other woman and realize maybe she's actually a human being with emotions too. We're hearing the perspectives of women who know their love is few tile, but they'll take what they can get for as long as they can get it.

6 (13m 16s):
One of the most famous auntie songs is an undercover one that most people don't realize is from the perspective of the other woman in saving all my love for you. Whitney Houston calls out her lover's lies even as she continues to wait for him. You used to tell me we'd run away together. Love gives you the right to be free. You said to be patient, just wait a little longer, but that's just an old fantasy. When Whitney hits that beautiful extended high note on fantasy, it feels like we're all falling back into an ocean of her lovers lies with her and like her.

6 (13m 59s):
We let ourselves be carried away. Anyway, When I was 25 years old and living in new Orleans, I met a man with a voice made for night. He was a lovely nerdy thing with a shaved head and freckles, a sprinkle of joy across his nose and cheeks and a few dots on his lips that were clearly targets for my affection. He wasn't yet 30, but he already had the look of a hip hop professor in line at whole foods. I'll call him Bayard at dinner with him and a friend.

6 (14m 42s):
I laughed too often and too hard at something Bayard said, he slipped me a questioning glance after one giggle too many. And I tried to pull myself together, but it was too late at a club later. We ended up sitting next to each other, trying to talk over the music. At midnight, we sat in my car talking and then the son reminded us. Our deodorants had been working for 24 hours. I decided to shoot my shot. Is there anyone back home waiting for your morning call? I asked him, he took a long time to answer, which was answered enough.

6 (15m 21s):
Yeah, there is. He finally said he looked down at his hands and I looked at them too. Of course he was involved with someone. He was smart, cute, and funny. And I'd met him at the wrong time. We exchanged email addresses because that felt safe. There was nothing wrong with having a pin. Pal was there soon. We were exchanging pages of texts, almost daily. He'd call me at work and have me crying from laughter. And sometimes he'd call me at night when that someone back home was out with her girls. And he talked to me with that voice saying what his words wouldn't after about three months of constant communication, he came back to new Orleans for another visit.

6 (16m 8s):
I don't know what he told that someone back home, but he told me he loved me. I said it back to him. We kissed my memory tells me I had candles lit and that's probably true. I do love candles. I remember his face as he looked at me and told me I was beautiful. I believed him. He was engaged to be married. And for the most part, I didn't care. I definitely had some woman to woman guilt since I'd had my own heartbreaking experiences with cheating, exes, but Bayard. And I started seeing each other. When I was firmly in what we now call my hot girl summer phase.

6 (16m 50s):
I also knew I wasn't the first woman he cheated on her with. I decided I couldn't care more about his woman than he did. I refuse to take responsibility for his decisions, but I had no problem benefiting from them. Those auntie songs I had swayed along with because I appreciated a talented voice and good music appeal differently to me during this time. Now they were pep talks in secret lovers. By Atlantic star. A pair of lovers are both devoted to other people yet unable to stop their attraction. I didn't have anyone I was committed to, but there was a particular verse I kept going back to while I fancied myself in love with Bayard sitting at home, I do nothing all day.

6 (17m 40s):
But think about you and hope that you're okay. Hoping you'll call before anyone gets home. I wait anxiously alone by the phone. This is the stuff of school girl, crushes of clumsy romcom, heroines of swooning, damsels everywhere. And that's how I felt about Bayard. It just so happened. He was committed to someone else. A few weeks after that candle visit, I was unexpectedly hospitalized and Bayard was there for me.

6 (18m 25s):
He called my mother, cleaned up my apartment and made sure my cat had a fresh litter box. He stayed with me the entire week. Even after my family arrived, the care he showed me was a fantasy. I'd never allowed myself to indulge. He was married a few months later. He emailed me from the honeymoon. And several months after that, we made plans to spend a weekend at a hotel together. He left the hotel website up on his laptop and his wife found a book. I had inscribed with something sneaky. She eventually reached out to me via email and aim, instant messaging of old.

6 (19m 5s):
The exact messages have been lost to time and anger, but the just remains. What did he tell you about me? He didn't talk much about you. Why you you'd have to ask him? Why did you do it? I wanted to do you love him? I think so. Yes. Do you want him? No. I'm not trying to take him from you. I saw your pictures. Okay. Does he love you? Ask him, why did he do it? Ask him. I ping ponged between a strange loyalty to him, the need to defend myself the desire to protect her and the need to be catty.

6 (19m 53s):
I wanted to tell her to leave that he cheated before that. If it hadn't been me, it would've been someone else. Bayard's wife reminded me of the petty girls in school who couldn't understand why guys would be interested in me. I didn't have the things I was supposed to in order to be attractive. I got in a few stingers, but I let her have her shots, whatever she needed to feel better and giving myself what I wanted. I'd hurt another woman. I felt guilty even as I would not allow myself to feel ashamed when I wanted to brush away any concerns about how he was treating his wife or when I'd start to feel bad about not having a man of my own.

6 (20m 36s):
I had to put on the SOS vans. Just be good to me, to gas myself up and keep me focused on myself. I don't care about your other girls. Just be good to me. His wife didn't understand how I could be with him and claim to love him, but not want to take him from her. I was no full. I firmly believe in the adage. How you got him. It's how you get God I think I stopped loving him first. He was the only man I was saying, I love you too, in a romantic sense, but he couldn't say the same.

6 (21m 22s):
So I stopped answering his emails and calls. He wrote me a letter and I burned it on opened. After I made the decision to let my relationship with Bayer to go. I found myself holding a sweating glass and staring at a blank wall. The auntie songs once gave me strength and now they gave me permission to cry. I missed someone who was never mine, even though I had made a good decision and moving on from the affair, a decision that had been mine in most auntie songs, we hear the other woman passively waiting for the man to make time for her.

6 (22m 2s):
But in everything I missed at home, the singer Cheryl tells the story of a woman who initiates her infidelity and lets us know she is the one to satisfied in her main relationship. She cheats without regrets and is grateful to have found someone who gives her everything. She's not getting at home. She was not the object of desire. She was in control of it. The song is a groovy, slow jam made for a two-step and eye contact. Perfect. For a woman who refuses to feel remorseful about receiving love from unexpected places.

6 (22m 51s):
I let the songs guide me through an affair, but they didn't tell me what happened after I'd moved on. I started reading romance novels when I was very young and became addicted to the promise of happily ever after forever was found in fiction and fairytales. But in auntie songs forever was a stolen night. Does the other woman get her happy ending? Maybe it's enough to stay in a loop of borrowed time. I still haven't figured that out yet, but I know I can be loved. Anyway. I want

1 (23m 37s):
Nicole Perkins is a writer from Nashville, Tennessee. Her memoir from which this essay is adapted is called. Sometimes I trip on how happy we could be and it's out now coming up. They say a little knowledge is a dangerous thing, but it can also make you a beloved rock critic. At least in one case. That's an a minute from Chicago public radio. When our program continues

0 (24m 2s):
Support for this American life comes from national geographic for 20 years. The national September 11th Memorial and museum has documented stories and collected footage of the day that changed America forever. Now it's possible to tell the story of that day in full national Geographic's new documentary series Chronicles. The day of the attacks told by first responders and survivors who lived through it from academy award winning executive producers, Dan Lindsay and TJ Martin 9 11 1 day in America stream. Now on Hulu support for this American life comes from 3m committed to protecting healthcare workers globally. 3m employee.

0 (24m 42s):
Chris knows that healthcare workers like his daughter may need to get up close to provide patient care. He's working hard to direct high performing personal protective equipment to hospitals and hotspots. So she and nurses like her can be protected while caring for their patients hear their story at 3m.com/improving lives. 3m science applied to life.

1 (25m 6s):
It's this American life. I'm Sean Cole. Since I was away this week, we made you a mix tape. It's called. This is just some songs misses. Some songs don't get excited where attract to music is easy. It struck me that a lot of the songs, most of the songs in the show today are from a long time ago. And I wanted to play you like a minute of this one tune. It's a little newer it's from early last year. And for me, it's just one of those ear worms that I'm like delighted to have in my ear all the time. The artists calls themselves Josephine network, a self-described shape-shifting Yenta in drag. It's a song about unburdening yourself.

1 (25m 46s):
You're getting whatever it is off your chest through music And that's something I also wanted to play that for you because where they say, say what you mean this next track on our mix tape is about saying explicitly indisputably, what you mean with music?

1 (26m 53s):
Although the people in the story might argue that it is not always easy. Part of their job is hunting for exactly the right song for the occasion. So this is track three, the end of the road. And I think the only other thing you need to know is that my colleague haunted Joffey Walt is a big fan of those slide shows that schools put together at the end of the year for graduations and that kind of thing. Retrospective slideshows loves them. Here's Hannah.

7 (27m 20s):
I got a bonus end of the year, slideshow last spring. I wasn't expecting it because it was for my second grader and he wasn't graduating anything still. I was pleased when his teacher wrote the class to say she wanted to mark the end of the year, we should all join their morning meeting by zoom. And there was going to be a slide, Joe, like Sean said, I do love slideshows and not in a normal way. I don't think I always cry every time. And I'm really not a crier, but these stupid slideshows always work on me. I will cry when it's not my own child graduating. I will cry. Even if I don't know a single kid in this slide show.

7 (28m 1s):
For instance, here, I was at an elementary school that my kids do not go to. I was there reporting. Wouldn't be a graduation without a slide show enjoy. And it takes 10 seconds. The pictures of the kids at work at their tables out on their field trips and matching t-shirts. I love when they do the photos from the beginning of the year and then the end and you see the kids get teeth and long legs in the front row. There's a grandpa wiping his eyes. I was done one more and I promise I'll get to the point here in a second. This one was the most embarrassing one for me.

7 (28m 44s):
I went to this graduation at a different school. I was reporting on, oh my God. Now we will

9 (28m 49s):
Have the rose

7 (28m 50s):
Ceremony. Do you guys know about this diabolical thing? They now do at some high school graduations where they give each kid arose

9 (28m 59s):
Graduate. We'll present a rose to one person who helped them on this journey.

7 (29m 13s):
And then they ask them to bring it to someone in the audience who got them to this moment. Then you see all these kids stumbling over their robes, trying to find their mom in the audience. And you see mothers just absorb their daughters and hugs. Both of them sobbing. I watched this one awkward 17 year old boy, walk up to his grandma, shoved the rose toward her and mumbled. Thank you. And she grabbed him by the neck and pulled him in brutal the, from the main office in the school, she saw me and came over to pat my arm to tell me it would be okay. Remember, I was not related to a single person graduating in the ceremony.

7 (29m 54s):
Anyway, this year I joined my child's class by zoom and I knew what to expect. We all watched a very sweet slideshow. The teacher put together and I felt nothing, nothing. We saw pictures of the kids, reading and bean bag chairs, learning math, nothing making volcanoes. Nope. I just felt sort of numb my attention. Drifted. I looked at my phone. I looked at everyone in the boxes on zoom and a bunch of slides in a kid on zoom. Un-muted himself to say something random, like my dog smells and just hearing the sound I realized, oh, there's no music.

7 (30m 36s):
That's, what's weird about this. There's no song. There was no

10 (30m 40s):
Music and her slideshow. I know that that's not acceptable. I haven't heard of that before.

7 (30m 48s):
Best Massey is a school social worker, the maker of many slideshows and the most enthusiastic fan of them too. When she's in the audience, Beth, cheers for every person in the slide show every activity she cheers for the days of the week. That's definitely

10 (31m 4s):
Why he didn't cry a

7 (31m 5s):
Hundred percent. You think that's why I didn't cry. Yeah. I think it is why I didn't cry. It did talk to the teacher in my son's class. She says she just forgot to put music in. I called Bess and I also called my friend, Rachel Lissy Rachel and best combined have probably put together dozens of slideshows over decades of working at summer camps, running afterschool programs and graduations. I asked them both. What does it mean? That I didn't feel anything without the music. Here's Rachel.

11 (31m 35s):
Yeah, I don't. I can't. I mean the idea without music, first of all, like I feel like even though at this point we wouldn't be having slideshows or actually using like slides and in like an old rotary, I still feel like if you're doing it without music, you can't help. But hear like a clicking sound. Like just this like sound of just emptiness. No,

7 (32m 0s):
That's exactly what this slideshow felt like. Yeah. It felt like time was moving so slowly and the pictures didn't have any of their meaning or at least that the meaning that I want.

11 (32m 13s):
Yeah. It's interesting. Cause it's like, there is a way in which the slideshows are celebrating the growth, like the passage of time, like we're a year older, but with music that feels like wondrous and full of possibility music, it feels just like the, the clicking of us all towards

7 (32m 29s):
Like, yes,

11 (32m 31s):
Totally, exactly. Like I've aged in this slideshow and I've watched aging. I feel connected to my own fragile mortality. Thank you, slideshow

7 (32m 46s):
The right song. It can tell your mind what to think about when you look at a bunch of pictures of all the possible things you could be thinking about and feeling the music tells you. No, no, no, no. This is the one to pick best said, imagine the rose ceremony without music, it'd just be awkward. Like watching a bunch of people stumble over chairs, trying to find their seats. So I thought I'd try played the same slideshow, but just put a song under it. See if I felt the right things. I was skeptical though, because this led, Joe had a lot of other things getting in the way for one, we weren't altogether watching it in a crowded auditorium.

7 (33m 27s):
And honestly, mostly what I saw was not the pictures of the kids being cute. I just noticed their masks and the fact that their desks had plastic partitions. And in some pictures they're wearing winter coats in doors because they have to have the windows open for ventilation. It just felt dystopian. And I could not really imagine a slideshow on zoom overcoming all of that.

11 (33m 51s):
I think he had

7 (33m 52s):
Some work best ever faithful in the medium believed this was absolutely fixable. She and Rachel both gave me lots of suggestions of songs they thought could work that I could play during the slideshow to feel the right things. It's not complicated that says basically any song everyone knows can do the job, pop songs, high energy songs. Those are the best. Rachel thinks it's all about the lyrics. I hope you had the time of your life as we go on, we remember all the times we had together,

11 (34m 23s):
But then there are also the songs like end of the road, hard to say goodbye to yesterday or like that, that Sarah McLaughlin song, I will remember you whatever

7 (34m 32s):
End of the road, end of the road. Oh yeah. End of the

11 (34m 35s):
Road where it's just like hitting the nail right on the head. Let's have some big feelings about something

7 (34m 42s):
Ending. So on the nose, this

11 (34m 45s):
Is a particular kind of art form and it doesn't, it doesn't call for much subtlety

7 (34m 59s):
There is one song that's in Rachel both mentioned it. That was the perfect slideshow song and all the ways it was poppy, everyone knew it had the right energy and the lyrics tell you exactly what to feel.

11 (35m 13s):
The R Kelly's on the world's greatest, which for a number of reasons can no longer really do. But it's a perfect,

7 (35m 20s):
That was in heavy rotation for many years.

11 (35m 23s):
This, this man who did these terrible things and should not be the hero of any child having to have written like two of the greatest slide show songs ever. And I don't know why, but like it, it hits me every time that like the idea like the, I am a marching band, I'm a mountain, something about that. And seeing the faces of kids, I believe I can fly. I believe I can touch the sky. That sense of just like each of us having this sort of, you know, bigness to us,

7 (35m 52s):
Obviously I'm not going to play R Kelly under my second grader slideshow, but all the other songs best and Rachel recommended, they all just feel too sentimental. And I don't feel sentimental about the last year. I don't think I want to feel sentimental about the last year of school, like end of the road. I wish it was the end of the road, but I did give it a try. I sat with the slideshow and tried to put music under it best, had suggested a Beatle song. And there is a beautiful song that I sing to my kid at bedtime. It's sappy has all the right lyrics, but it didn't work. It's too much about him and me, not his class or his school.

7 (36m 34s):
I did not believe this slideshow was salvageable. There was one other kind of slideshow song that best talked about when she'd seen work recently at her mother-in-law's 90th birthday party. And it didn't work because it was a song everyone knew or because the lyrics tell you how to feel. She said it works because it makes you think of a particular place

10 (37m 1s):
Comes from like this little town. And it was it's like, you know, like, like a, just a traditional, like small town ballad that was sung about the town that she was.

7 (37m 15s):
I started to think about that and what song I associate with this specific group of people and this specific place. There's really only one every year, since my oldest was in pre-K. So seven years at the end of the year assembly, the kids sing a song called this pretty planet. I've never loved this song. And I did not miss it when a new music teacher came in recently and retired it, but it did seem like it might work for this. And it did.

12 (37m 44s):
<inaudible> spinning through space. You're a guard, you're a Harbor. You're a holy play.

7 (37m 55s):
I know. Did you hand motions and everything? It actually felt like watching a slideshow. I had never seen before the masks and the heaviness of the year were still there, but my brain didn't focus on them. Instead. I saw a picture I had totally missed of my kid leaving a group of friends and some sort of stomping game in the yard. I saw a girl who couldn't read last year, standing at the board with a pointer, stick reading to everyone. Mostly I just saw the incredible resilience of all the people in that classroom and marveled at the teachers, smiling and leaving. And so skillfully masking all the fear and chaos of the entire school year.

7 (38m 35s):
So they could create something that looks like school. It's not easy being with kids all the time. It's tedious and boring and hard. You don't when there's not a global pandemic, but there are these flashes of bigness, the sled, Joe, it takes all those flashes and bottles them up so that you can look back over the past year for a few minutes, ideally no more than six with the right song playing and actually see all the things you missed.

1 (39m 16s):
Ana Jeffy Walton is one of the producers of our show track for what's the frequency Kenneth. So, so much musical discovery happens when we're kids like you really find the songs that form your tastes when you're young, for the most part, or at least that's what happened with me. This last story is about someone discovering music who is much older, a guy named Ken Eglin. He was actually living in a nursing home in Boston, the duplex nursing home, it was called. This was decades ago, by the way, there were 45 residents in the facility. All men, my friend, David Greenberger was the activities director there in the late seventies and early eighties.

13 (39m 53s):
I started the job at the beginning of 79 and I've met Ken probably immediately because he, he walked with a Walker and he would sit himself right by th there was a desk for the activities director. And it was like a cabinet with stuff in it. And it was in the corner of a room where they also would have lunch and stuff. So Ken was always seated right by it. Cause he's like, Hey you, what are you doing? You know? So whoever was an outsider, it's like, I gotta know what's going on out there. He never saw himself as a guy in a nursing home. He's like I have to work for my leg. You know? And the spells that I get, you know, so he

1 (40m 29s):
Pointing to his head, he got some sort of spouse.

13 (40m 31s):
He would have seizures. So he had had some kind of brain surgery and you could see the scar on his head from that. So that affected how he could walk along. And he was just started talking.

1 (40m 45s):
Ken was a talker. You wouldn't know it looking at him, but he had been a tap dancer in nightclubs, back in the thirties, part of the jazz scene in Boston, he said he had met jazz icons like Billy holiday, Charlie Parker and Lester young, who he called pres during a saxophone solo, he would be the guy in the audience yelling, go, go, go, go, go. Ken also drank a lot back in the day, according to his intake papers, the surgery he'd had was for a subdural hematoma, a leaking blood vessel in his brain, probably from falling down the stairs. One time when he was drunk, he also had diabetes semi-paralysis on his left side and he had no family to speak of siblings and parents had all died.

1 (41m 25s):
And even given all of that, he was still this upbeat smiley charmer said that if David didn't go ahead and marry his girlfriend, he was going to meet up her on the corner with two bottles of John Jamison. David was a dentist and have his own very different kind of music scene. He played in the band in the heyday of Boston rock, a skinny already 25 year old white guy with a mustache compared to Ken who was black, a world war II vet in his mid sixties. And for whom going to shows was well in the past, still music was something they easily bonded over Canada

13 (41m 59s):
And wanted to hear music one and specifically wanting to know what was I listening to? There was an element in him where he was like, what's going on out there? And he pointed out the window. I got to know what's going on out there. And first I just played him some stuff. And I think the first thing I played him was

1 (42m 18s):
Yeah, sort of this outsider art trio of sisters from New Hampshire, they sounded like this. Ken had a lot to say about the shags. We actually know exactly what his reaction was because David wrote it down this whole rapid fire soliloquy, David read it to me.

13 (42m 42s):
I couldn't dance to that. Not regular dancing with a woman. I could soft shoe with that. Any of this music you're playing for me, I could soft shoe with our bucking wing with it or off time with it personally myself. I could do it. I don't know if everybody else could. I know for a fact that gene Kelly and Fred Astaire could dance to that. And if they could, I damn sure could do it myself. And I pray to God someday. You can see me dance to that. That I'm well enough to do it. Let me tell you something, Dave, anytime anybody needs,

1 (43m 8s):
I just need to pause here for a second and talk about the reason David wrote down what Ken had to say about the shags early on in his job at the nursing home. David started a small magazine. The Xen called the duplex planet. It was mainly quotes from the residents and snippets of their conversations that he thought were surprising or funny or poignant. It was self published. Hundreds of subscribers, not thousands, but it had this devoted following and lasted decades. After David left the nursing home, he interviewed old folks all over the country. There was a comic book version, live performances, CDs, everything. And Ken Eglin was one of the early standout regulars that readers look forward to hearing from every month. David created a special section for him, actually a music review column called Ken's corner.

1 (43m 52s):
He played Ken songs on a cassette Walkman. Ken would say what he thought of them. And David would sit and take notes in the first official Ken's corner column issue 29. He reviewed money. Won't buy you happiness by the incredible casuals. Yeah.

13 (44m 7s):
He says, it's crazy. It's really groovy. Or as you say today, it's really nice. And I said, it cracks me up. As you say today, nice as the fridge gotten rid of the word crazy. It's like, he was used to beat Nick talk. You guys don't do that anymore. Right? But I say it's slang. It's groovy that a beat. And the beat was beautiful. I like it. I like what I hear. Give them a chance. There'll be up there. These kids can go up. They can go. There's no stopping them. Now if they stop, I'll tell them they're fools. There's that old saying now you've probably never heard of peg leg Bates. He said, don't stop right there. Keep going.

1 (44m 48s):
A lot of the reviews are like that in a good way. There's this poetic repetition to his gushy ness. And he's so encouraging. There'll be like, those kids are going places. Whether he's talking about the incredible casuals or a much more famous bands, like the clash quote. Should I go, huh? No, no, don't go stay there, baby. These boys are all right. They're going to swing. Sometimes David would play an artist. Ken had heard before, like Frank Sinatra or Elvis Presley, but mostly it was stuff that was all new to him. And like those first time listening reaction videos that are on YouTube and Tik TOK. Now it helped if you already knew the song he was talking about because it allowed you to hear it through new ears, Ken's ears.

1 (45m 30s):
There was a

13 (45m 31s):
Complete lack of knowledge of context. He doesn't know anything about the history of the person, which can be free. He's just like, whoa, this thing's just rolling over me. It's really about how you would talk with a friend while you're listening to music. He was my friend. It was never in a ironic way. I don't even like that whole thing that gets done sometimes. Like, let's see what grandpa says about kiss or the slits or whatever. They just, some thing that you'd normally wouldn't be playing for grandpa

1 (46m 4s):
Out of the mouths of babes, except for it's not babes it's

13 (46m 8s):
Well, the people, yeah, the reverse babe, whatever. But a lot of times he would relate himself to it. I mean, basically all these things while they are music reviews, the whole thing together is a portrait of Ken described in these funny little ways, like piecing together a puzzle or the little bits of it are all coming together. That's what it really is.

1 (46m 35s):
Yeah. Not just a portrait of his personality, which is palpable, but practically Ken's whole life is depicted in the reviews, reacting to the Lord's prayer by the beach boys. He said I was a Methodist. And then when they sent me to school, they switched me around and made me a Catholic. That was the main trend. She didn't like me because I was too popular and too good a dancer. But I didn't care. Ken was a rebel crashing parties, no matter what floor they were on, he talks about climbing the sides of houses to get in the words, raising hell, appear at least a couple of times, but there were more plastic memories too. And he's down at the Charles river and a couple of the reviews sleeping on a blanket or he's at magazine beach where he used to be a lifeguard.

1 (47m 16s):
Music is driving. This is from when he listened to captain beef hearts, tropical hot dogs.

13 (47m 20s):
I'm sitting there laying on my blanket and I got the beat in my body, in my blood. And I look over to one side of me and there's a blonde girl with long hair, way down her back. And she's got those tight bikinis on and shaken enough. She's tearing up the world and you got to get up and get the same beat that she's got. And there you are. You

1 (47m 37s):
Apparently, there were a lot of women in Ken's life. He never married. It seems like he rejected all of that, but he had girlfriends and not always happily. It was an accident by NRBQ got him talking about the time one woman told him she was pregnant with his baby and he skipped town turned out. It wasn't his. And sometimes all of the crowding and carrying on intersects with America's troubled history. This is what he said in response to bunkie. And Jake's. If I had a dream, if we played music like that, back in the thirties, the police, the Irish cops would raise hell with us. Now what I'm trying to tell you, segregation was a bitch. They couldn't stand me. Dancing with the white girls would be doing the Lindy hop on Boston, common going wild smoking reefers.

1 (48m 21s):
We called them reefers back. Then now they call it marijuana. We'd be dancing. And along comes a pounder, which is a cup. And he says, all right, now, break it up. Sometimes you run into a cop saying, Hey, that's my cousin. You're dancing with boy To be clear. Ken did not like everything. David played him. Some of the reviews begin with it was weird or I don't buy that cat food by king Crimson was a hard, no. And then this one review was such an intricate multi-layered yet subtly murderous pan. Oh, here, David had to read it to me.

13 (49m 1s):
I'm in ring by Gary Lewis and the Playboys that I wouldn't buy. But it sounds all right. Some more horns in there would have helped a little bit and changed the tempo a little bit to a better singer too. Could have come more clear with it. A lot of those words I couldn't get, you could change a lot of the lyrics in there too. It was corn. He had a temple in there, but I just couldn't get it. They got to switch it around. I don't mean all the way around, just halfway. So he's basically, he's, he's now asked about adding horns, changing the lyrics, the tempo, and getting a different singer, but it's not totally bad. I mean, he's basically trying to be all to hurt anybody's feelings.

1 (49m 48s):
I should also say everyone at the nursing home knew about the Xen. The owner told David, he was really proud of what he was doing. And David showed Ken the Ken's corner column in the duplex planet, but Ken was completely uninterested. He was like, why do I need a souvenir of my self-talking? Did he know how many people were reading

3 (50m 5s):
These?

13 (50m 7s):
I don't know if it really registered. I, I would tell him stuff, but I that's such an abstract thing. All that mattered to him was he liked what we did.

1 (50m 16s):
Meanwhile, Ken's following swelled. Well beyond the readership of the duplex planet, other publications started picking up the column, a rock sheet in Boston called the noise to alternative papers out of the Northwest rounder records had David submit some of Ken's reviews for their mail order catalog. Granted, David had a lot of music, world connections from playing in his band, but he wasn't pushing for any of this exposure. And when Ken got to meet some of the musicians, he reviewed weirdly, it was Ken who was the celebrity in those interactions. The delve way goes, got in touch, asking if Ken could produce them a local Boston band called pastiche, dedicated a song to him, which he later reviewed. He and David appeared on a local TV show in Rhode Island together.

1 (50m 57s):
David even read a couple of Ken's reviews on late night with Conan O'Brien. Whereas Ken had always said he wanted to know what was going on out in the world. Now, Ken was what was going on out in the world. Chandler Travis with the incredible casuals told me he liked Ken because Ken talked like a musician. David brought Ken to one of their shows and the casuals played at David's wedding party where Ken was a guest. There's a super eight film with just a snippet of Ken at the party on it. He's wearing a gray suit jacket and a white shirt with a wide collar, no tie. You can't hear what Ken saying over the crowd noise, but he's joking around just stimulating people lean in and laugh.

1 (51m 39s):
He's a hit. And he knows that I had a ball that night and he said in his review of the easy beats Friday on my mind, then I had to come back here and who's waiting for me at the front door, but the gorilla and that wine hit me. When I got out of the car. Another result of Ken's widening popularity. Other people wanted in on the action started sending their own mix tapes for Ken to listen to That's. David still has them. All the songs are listed on the J card or typed onto these little sheets of paper and folded up and shoved into the Juul case. One of the lists has a little note on it that says, Dave, is it okay to put your own thing on here?

1 (52m 20s):
If not skip over it. And this tape was from the guitarist Glen Jones, and it's got jelly roll Morton on it. And Elvis Presley in this tune,

13 (52m 40s):
Stranger by lifting for Zelle crying a little bit during it, man, that's a Western song. If there ever was, that is one, no stranger to me. Oh man, that's what the cat said. Oh man, take me back. Take me right back to the Arizona desert. That kind of music gets you. So help me. It does. You got the moon and a sucker singing like this and girls walking around and little slips that you can see right through it's music. That's like this, that takes you there. Voice is so plain that you can understand what they're saying to me. I know what they're singing. There's lyrics in there. You may not know, but you will put them in there yourself. I've done that so many times just sat there and listened to bands, play and put the words in myself.

13 (53m 22s):
The way I hear them. It's easy to do. If you've got the music in your body, man, you're going to do it. That's from the heart.

1 (53m 41s):
In all Ken dictated 692 music reviews give or take over just a couple of years. And then his health got worse. He developed cancer. He was transferred from the duplex nursing home to a local VA hospital. David kept visiting him, encouraged other people Ken's fans to do the same.

13 (54m 1s):
He was at the VA. It was clear. It was going to be there for a while. He was, maybe knew that he was never going to leave that maybe he knew he was getting worse. He certainly wasn't going back to the nursing home. And so it was really just a request. He asked me, he said those reviews. Could you bring them in here

1 (54m 21s):
For me? Not all of them or anything, but just a selection of them to have

13 (54m 25s):
He wanted them in a folder by his bed at the VA hospital. Because I think, well, he knew I'm an old guy that there's just being moved around. And so he would tell people that's me, you know, like the nurses and stuff at the VA hospital, he wanted some identity outside of just being a frail guy whose body's breaking down in the nursing home. He was Ken, he had a level of respect, but at the VA hospital, he wouldn't have had any of that. He's like, you know, he'd get moved into the hallway. Now we gotta do this for you. And we're sending you down to this room for whatever tests or, you know, especially for somebody who doesn't really have a family or an, or an advocate.

13 (55m 8s):
So I, they were in touch with me. Some I, you know, I got my name onto his chart and I remember I got a call late at night, you know, wait, you know, maybe it was two in the morning or something. And just, it was, you know, just wanted to call it. You know, that, you know, Ken died tonight.

1 (55m 31s):
It was January 29th, 1984. Ken was 68. A featured obituary ran in the Boston Sunday, globe headlined, Kenneth Eglin, rock music critic began as tap dancer in thirties. It didn't mention his seizures or his diabetes or that he used a Walker toward the end of his life. It did quote from one of his reviews, no matter what instrument you're playing. Cause that's one of the quotes you can't lose that first beat or you're through David at the time was 29. You'd only been to one or two funerals at that point.

1 (56m 13s):
Other guys from the nursing home, it certainly never had to organize one before, but it was David who called the funeral home to work out the details of the wig fans of Ken cycled in and out paying their respects. Some who had met him in the past and others who hadn't David arranged for some of Ken's favorite music to be played. Sun RA the beach boys, Jonathan Richmond. And he took care of this one other detail that felt important.

13 (56m 37s):
I gave them the tape. The last mix tape that can never got to here came too late. There just wasn't a time. You know, his condition was deteriorating. I would go and see him, but I wasn't, you know, trying to get headphones on him and have him listen to stuff. So I, I then gave it to the funeral director and I had him put it in the pocket of his jacket. So he was buried with it. He's buried with the tape. So I don't remember know what was on it. It was, I don't remember any of the songs. No, that was meant to be a thing that I would have done with him.

13 (57m 20s):
It was for him to hear and that wasn't possible. So

1 (57m 26s):
I think it belongs to him in a

13 (57m 27s):
Way, what am I supposed to do with this?

1 (57m 30s):
There's this thing that happens when two friends sit and listen to music together, a lot, it happened with my friend, Paul and me when we were kids and he turned me on to some of the music I still listened to. And it happened with Ken and David. Even when you go your separate ways in whatever way that happens. It's like you take that person with you. You're forever informed by that friendship. Certain songs will always remind you of that person, even when they become associated with other people in your life. And when you hear those songs, you think about other aspects of that friendship, of that person, that you really loved stuff that maybe didn't occur to you as much back when you were hanging out with them. I asked David, what Ken's last review was?

1 (58m 11s):
And he said, he wasn't sure because he'd collect so many at once and then meet them out in batches as he published a magazine. But this is the last one in the last Ken's corner column in issue 55. It's a song by Ted Hawkins,

13 (58m 25s):
His song TWA. I couldn't get the name of it. I told him it was TWA nodded. He said, well, happiness was in there anyway. I know happiness was in there. All right. I liked it.

16 (58m 41s):
Smash steps. And so, you know,

1 (58m 51s):
If you want to know more about David and his work, you can go to David greenberger.com and Berger is B E R G E R. There's also a documentary film about him in progress called beyond the duplex planet.

16 (59m 3s):
Not true happiness, true happiness,

1 (59m 14s):
Track five. I talk in tunes. So I was sitting with Chandler, Travis of the incredible casuals, who I mentioned that story. And he was just sort of thinking out loud. At one point he knew what I was working on. And he's like, I wonder if you guys might need a song like a mix-tape song for the end of the show that you're doing. And I was like, yeah, why you got one? And he's like, no, but I could write one. It's actually where the title of the episode comes from. Enjoy this.

17 (59m 44s):
I hope you last saw in a way to me that stupid, that Poplar made my hockey drive. I can't get them out of the eight songs. I want to know who, if you want to stand in the south, you'll eat the ground. You don't I know you don't know me and I don't really know.

17 (1h 0m 24s):
Maybe we should not get buried yet. The first you need to hear the stuff I got to get you to show you where the treasure is. Buried. Dad. No big deal. I used to listen to sad. I am. Maybe you could tell me why we're the tracks and communicate your a to

1 (1h 1m 25s):
Today's program is produced by Nadia, Raymond, and myself. The people who put our show together include BIM out of wound. Me Elena baker, Susan Burton, Ben Calhoun, Dana Chivez, Zoe chase Hannah Jeffrey waltz, Seth Lind Tobin Lowe, Mickey meek, Lena Mazizzi, Stowe Nelson, Catherine Raymondo, Laura Stark, Chesky Lily Sullivan, Matt Tierney and Chloe Weiner. Our managing editor is Sarah Abdi Rachman. Senior editor is David Kestenbaum. Our executive editor is a manual Berry fact-checking by Andrea Lopez. Cruzado Rudy Lee and Christopher Smith, Tala Ricky Bates played drums and was the mix engineer on I talk in tunes special. Thanks to <inaudible> Neil drumming, Mallory Zuckerman, Geoff Muldaur, Georgia Weber, and the Josh Craig, our website, this American life.org.

1 (1h 2m 5s):
This American life is delivered to public radio stations by PRX, the public radio exchange. Thanks also in always to our boss. I read glass, he got drunk on the set of wheel of fortune passed out. And when he woke up, he saw Vanna white smiling and the completed puzzle. He was so confused. Did I, did I tell her that it spelled that I'm Sean Cole join us next week for more stories of this American life?

18 (1h 2m 53s):
Next week on the podcast of this American life? One of our producers Parker grew up in Baltimore like I did. And she explained to me that she and other black kids of her generation were terrified going to this history museum called the great blacks and wax. This week. Parker goes back.

19 (1h 3m 9s):
I just got distracted by them trying to shove the guy in the oven. So what, what? No, that's underground railroad. It's a fake gun.

18 (1h 3m 16s):
What suitable for children next week on the podcast or on your local public radio station?