0 (0s):
With more than 1700 journalists reporting from over 160 countries and 4,700 full-time employees working from offices homes in the field. The New York times pushes collaboration to its limit. That's why the times uses Google workspace. It's powerful productivity and collaboration tools help the times work seamlessly and securely across the globe to help people seek truth and understand the world. Discover how Google workspace tools can help your business thrive in the new hybrid working world. Visit workspace.google.com/enterprise.

1 (33s):
A quick warning. There are curse words that are under beeped in today's episode of the show. If you prefer a beeped version, you can find that at our website, this American life.org,

2 (44s):
There's a story my mom used to like to tell my older sister, Randy was eight or so when this happened and something came up at school that Randy didn't understand, and she came home and she asked my mom, where do babies come from? And my mom just felt like, great. This is great. She's bringing this up on her own. I don't have to sit her down in some awkward birds and bees conversation. Someday. We can get this out of the way now when she's young and she's really excited to tell her this Devin, she explains the whole thing, right? Where babies come from, what sex is and the way my mom always just tell the story. She said that she felt like I am doing such a good job here. Like I am such a good mom today had at the end of it, she asked Randy, okay, so that's everything.

2 (1m 26s):
Do you have any questions? And then Randy pauses for a long moment. And she asks, cupboards really fly. And my mom realizes of course, oh, she was not ready. Like she observed nothing and sure enough, like a year passes and Randy comes back to her. I don't remember why and asked her again, like where do babies come from? And it's like, the first time never happened. She remembered none of it. And I think of that story sometimes when there are debates over what is suitable for children, I think there's a whole category of things that kids protect themselves from. Like, they just don't want to engage with that stuff. Adults don't need to keep them from it, but then there's other stuff, stuff that does seep into their world that they take to heart and they muddle about and they make part of themselves.

2 (2m 20s):
And the thing is difficult is that it can be really hard to predict what those things are going to be. What are they on our program? Things that kids hear things, they see things that happened to them that affect them in ways that they only understand later as adults, like for instance, what it means to give little black kids toys that celebrate the Confederacy or to drag teenage boys into the desert to watch Tomich bombs go off or to bring your kid to work when your work involves breaking the wall, how do you even quantify exactly what that does to a person? But today we try to figure that out WBZ Chicago, it's this American life. I'm Eric Glass stay with us.

2 (3m 7s):
<inaudible> stars and bars and bars. We've got the idea for this week show from this thing had happened to one of our producers, you know, drumming realization that he came to an adulthood about a TV show that he's watched as a kid. Here's Neil,

4 (3m 22s):
The hit TV show, the Dukes of Hazzard ran from 1979 to 1985. It started John Schneider and Tombo pat as Bo and Luke duke to rakish good old boys trying to stay on the right side of the law in rural Georgia. But if you ask any man, my age was a fan of the show. The deuce of hazards, true star was a bright orange, 1969 Dodge charger nicknamed the general Lee every week on CBS, the generally would roar through country back roads, leaping over virtually everything defined laws of physics and blowing little boys' minds across America. I had a general league in what like matchbox or, huh?

5 (3m 57s):
Nah, I had, I had it straight up like the plastic jury, like a big size, a big size or whatever, go around, traveling on your dad, his foot, and then get angry like that side.

4 (4m 8s):
That's it. This is one of my favorite rappers. Pre-brew Brewin. He's from the Bronx like me. He watched the Dukes of Hazzard faithfully as a boy, we both had Dukes of Hazzard lunchboxes and we were both proud owners of miniature versions of the general league. Back then. It was probably one of the most coveted toys. Any kid in either of our neighborhoods could possess. I remember the bully of the neighborhood stole mine and tried to protect.

5 (4m 31s):
I hate when that happens. This is mine, right? I'm like, no, it's definitely not.

4 (4m 37s):
The generally was remarkable. Not just because it was both fast and furious before. That was a thing. But because it's rooftop was in plays and with the Confederate flag as kids, black kids pushing our mini American muscle along the carpets and concrete of New York city, neither breeze nor ice or anything bothersome about that bold symbol up top. In fact, for us at the time, the rebel flag was just part of what made the car so damn cool.

5 (5m 0s):
There was a kid in my neighborhood, Irish kid, he had orange Dodge challenger for 40 no flag on the top. I remember a lot of us like, damn he, but he needs to throw the flag on top of that. But it was a real car was a toy. No, he drove. And you heard them coming out of the blocks. He just like that car would be dope. Dope. If he had that flag on that bag.

4 (5m 33s):
I got the idea to talk to breeze about this because in 2001, as part of his group, the juggernauts he wrote and released a song called generally it's spelled like the adverb, but a play on the name of the Duke's prized racer. I don't remember exactly when I heard the song, but by then, it'd been over 15 years since the Dukes of Hazzard went off the air. I hadn't thought about the show or the car in ages.

5 (5m 53s):
The gentleman that was my favorite was the good boys. <inaudible>,

4 (6m 4s):
I'm pretty sure that when I was in my twenties and her generally, well, that was the first time I put two and two together and realized, oh, wait, one of my favorite toys growing up, actually born unabashedly front to my humanity and freedom. The flag on the roof. How the hell did I miss that? Listening to the song again recently, I thought maybe it was about breeze himself coming to that same realization. We are the same age after all, but when he and I met to talk about it, Brie said, he'd recognize the inherent put down in the general Lee's paint job. By the time he was in high school, he was actually inspired to write generally a few years later, after he'd had kids of his own, one day, he took them on a shopping trip.

5 (6m 40s):
I was literally in toys R us probably on gun hill road, near co-op city or the one in Yonkers on central lab and kids losing this, looking for toys and me questioning like what's up with these toys. And then I see the generally

4 (7m 1s):
The iconic Roadster was back on the shelves being pushed on a new generation to promote some TV, movie relaunch. Do you remember

5 (7m 8s):
What the song? Yeah, yeah, definitely.

4 (7m 10s):
Can you take me through it?

5 (7m 13s):
You want boss? Oh man. It's tough. 43. The job me batty daddy survive and be seeming slim and screaming women. Could it sound be more of annoying?

4 (7m 24s):
The thing I love about breeze is that he writes these dents, clever impressionistic rhymes. That sound like words, tumbling downstairs in this first verse. He's telling the story of that trip to twice over us building the scene of a frustrated parent, overwhelmed by toys and demanding children,

5 (7m 40s):
Whack toys, shine. I lack noise, peace and quiet. And SISA right constructively than what I see the generally. And I said, you know what? I, I, I need to explore this idea. Like why did they think that was okay? Why did they think that, that, you know, they can show this image and, and, and make us champion that image. Why is it okay to make our pain, this pop icon? Why was it okay. I just wanted to attack it. That you would have the audacity to do that. I was, I was just thinking, not with my kids.

4 (8m 21s):
So then you go, so then there's the chorus after that, right?

5 (8m 25s):
So the chorus is like the general Lee representing for your clan, the general leaf for real, somebody pulled a fast one. The Jennifer Lee. Now I'm starting to, overstand the general league. Wasn't the first, won't be the last one.

4 (8m 38s):
I love that line. Somebody pulled a fast one just because it's nice. It's like the car's fast. And then it's like a really, it's a really nice line. I appreciate it. Very slow.

5 (8m 50s):
I mean, it's pretty blatant. It's the hoodwinking yeah, they got over, you know, they normalized it for better or for worse. It's a huge screw. You, you know, it's, it's like, we're going to do this. You're not going to say nothing. We're going to put it on prom, time TV. We're going to put it in toys R us, in fact, you're going to buy it. So it was like, so I sit in the song I say, but sell my L. So my loss,

4 (9m 22s):
Of course, at 7, 8, 9 years old, it wasn't breathing. I controlling the TV, remote or spending hour harder and crash. It was ultimately our parents who let us watch the show and bought us the toys, considering that both my parents were born and raised in rural South Carolina and experienced chilling racism firsthand. You think they would have objected to the Dukes. And they're generally that they didn't breezes parents who are from the Caribbean. They didn't either. He has a theory as to what our parents were thinking.

5 (9m 50s):
I think, you know, it's, it's a lot about, I don't want my kids to be left out. I don't want my kids to be weird. It was the number one show. Yeah. So it was like, you know, why deny them that,

4 (10m 2s):
Okay, this is important on TV. The doors in the general league were welded shut as is common with a lot of stock race cars. So Bo and Luke duke were constantly hopping through the windows. It was the only way in, or out of the car. Here's breeze with the songs, final verse

5 (10m 17s):
Disturb bubble, to see what we was murdered to when it could have, should have been a convertible. I started off with like, you know what, use constantly jumping in and out of the windows. It would have made more sense and been more practical to Ben, a converter, just cut the top off, shop the top off, but you needed it. You needed the top of the call. You needed to show that image because that's the temporary, that's the game. I get it. Y'all wanting to see it. Here it is.

4 (10m 46s):
Okay. Take me through that first, this

5 (10m 48s):
Terrible to see what we was murdered to when it could have, should have been a convertible, say that the climbing through the windows and go make better time and do the pro hopping, but no stopping commercial. Use the issue. They get you with decals match the lunch box pajamas. You want to snatch the buns, lock the BYO, generally, praise the stuff, crave the stuff, slaves to stuff. Get it for me begging, like, please. So now with that, I talked about how I would beg my parents for it, but then it's just like sport and the pain. You know what I mean? Like you use sport my pain and it's literally a comedy sport. And the pain show was a brainwash kid, but never had a fabric frock and a swastika of course, Nazi with that.

5 (11m 34s):
I'd rather not see the closest that I got BC Haile Selassie, but sell my L C S in Dan does double standard trouble be as something candid, all the subtle gun to flag down what? No hesitate and cut a regulation fucker legislation. But now some of y'all walking around, like for same word, as a wonder what the murder was a Jamesburg thought about the generally

4 (11m 58s):
In 1998, James Byrd, a black man in Texas was badly beaten and pissed on by three white supremacists. The men then chained bird by his ankles to a pickup truck and dragged him over asphalt for roughly three miles. Bird died when his head and arm were severed from his body, the white supremacists who sported various Nazi and Confederate symbols dumped birds, mutilated bodies, near a black church. This atrocity was heavy on breezes mind when he wrote generally, which is why the last verse ends in anger. As he says, gun the flag down. No hesitating.

5 (12m 31s):
I kinda was like, I know some people are gonna be like breezy, Wallin. We told them about shooting down the flag. You should go through the right channels, this legislation, but I'm like, well, what are the murder was a Jamesburg thing about the generally, you know what I mean? It's just like, at some point we got to kill your idols. We got burned your idols.

4 (12m 58s):
So you were saying, you told me that you you've been thinking about this song a lot lately,

5 (13m 3s):
Literally like a week before you called I was listening to the song and I almost got a little choked up. Cause I, God damn, you know what I mean? It's like 16 years later. Why is it still an issue I'd like to think, come on, you're better than that. Now, America,

4 (13m 27s):
That said I can't help, but Harbor a little bit of nostalgia for the general league. Not so much for the thing itself, but for what it represents for me a time before I could possibly recognize the insidiousness of its design before I really understood its origins or how that history has shaped me and the people I care about back when all I really had to worry about was who had the coolest toy on the block?

2 (13m 55s):
No drumming. He says he works at our sister company cereal, making podcasts today's show is a rerun.

6 (14m 1s):
I honestly believe they should have changed his name. Robert E. Lee high school very long time ago, probably after, you know, nineties, early two thousands

2 (14m 11s):
And Malden. When we talked to her for today's program, she was 16 years old, a member of the drill team at Robert E. Lee high school in Tyler, Texas, a black girl with blonde Afro, which on Fridays will be tucked under a white cowboy hat. Part of her drove team uniform should talked to BA Parker.

6 (14m 28s):
I love being on the same. I love the girls who were on here, but you know, the history is still, you know, it's there at the back of my mind. And I know a lot of it doesn't really bother that many people, but it's still something that I find that gets to me

2 (14m 43s):
That history is that Robert E. Lee high school was founded in 19 58, 4 years after brown vs board of education as a place for white students to go to avoid integration down, gave it the name. Robert D. Lee is a way to give the finger to the civil rights movement, school prided itself on having this massive Confederate flag. Allegedly the second largest Confederate flag in the world took 20 people to carry it. Then in the 1970s, the courts ordered the town to integrate the high school. These days, 60% of the school was black and Latino there in Tyler. It is still referred to as the white high school, when they announce the name of the school at the beginning of games, Jerilyn says she just kind of blocks it out. She found out about the school's history a little while ago.

6 (15m 24s):
I learned this last year, I believe because we have memory books and it dates back all the way to when Lee first opened. And we were flipping through one of the very first ones. And that was when I saw the uniforms and you know, all the traditions that they used to have the Southern bill drill team and our bell guards. They recalled the rebels and the rebel EDS. And they did wear Confederate uniforms, dolls, clothing, and things like that. And they proudly displayed their Confederate flag. And it just shocked me. And all I could think about was what, like for real, y'all kidding me right now. Do you have to sing the school song? They try to make us learn it, but I never met her.

2 (16m 5s):
Hey, Sunday school song starts with the lyrics. Robert E. Lee. We raise our voices in praise of your name may honor. And glory air guide you to fame. Have you ever

6 (16m 16s):
Well, I think we looked at the lyrics of it. I've looked at the lyrics, which is why I haven't tried to memorize it. Would you ever sing? Never in my life, never.

2 (16m 27s):
There's one lyric in the school song. Our memories will bind us to Robert E. Lee. That part definitely seemed true back when we first aired this story in 2017, then in 2021 year after Jerilyn graduated, the school district actually changed the name of the school to Tyler legacy high school. Jerilyn by the way, it's not crazy about that name either. She says legacy is a nod to the school's Confederate legacy. She said she would have gone with something neutral, like for instance, rose city high

8 (17m 3s):
We're down on the levy. I mean, there's daddy and Manny. There's Ephraim and Sammy on a moon live. Now you can find them all while they're away. The banjos are seen cause Baden what's that to say, what's that to say in the wild they keep playing and I'm Hama and swear you. And it's the good ship <inaudible> to carry the card. New way.

2 (17m 32s):
History is not a toy. So there are over 200 public schools around the country named after Confederate leaders and over 700 monuments memorializing, the Confederacy and public places. Those numbers come from a database run by the Southern poverty law center. Of course, many other statues have been taken down in the last few years. The statue of Robert E. Lee was removed just this week in Richmond, but for all this commemoration of white experience of life in the south before and during the civil war, there's actually not that much out there memorializing the black experience. One of the few places is in Baltimore. I have to say I was surprised to learn. It was there. I grew up in Baltimore and okay, this came into existence after I moved away.

2 (18m 12s):
But I'm back in Baltimore regularly to see family there never heard of it until BA Parker, who was a producer at our program and who also grew up in Baltimore, not far from where I grew up, told me about it. Here she is.

9 (18m 26s):
Every black kid in Baltimore knows this place. Most of us went there on field trips. When we were in school or were taken there by an earnest parent, it's called the national great blacks in wax museum. That's great blacks. And they're rendered in wax. It's the first black history wax museum in the country. I first went there on a field trip in the third grade and for better or worse, it's been stuck in my memory ever since, to be honest, scared the shit out of me, it's violent and graphic and unlike any other museum I've ever been to. And its main clientele was children. Even today, I can talk to anybody who grew up black and in Baltimore.

9 (19m 7s):
And if you bring up the blacks and wax, there'll be like, yeah, that was messed up. Right? Texting with friends and family. About this last week, I got messages like I had nightmares and I started to tear up and I can still see it in my head. I wanted to go back to the museum to see if it was as bad as I remembered. There's a crowd of people from a bus coming in and there's a couple of kids. So I went back there recently with my colleague, Sean Cole. The museum itself is an old fire station and three row houses fused into one building in the lobby. The wax figures of web Dubois and Carter G Woodson are there to greet you next to the ticket.

9 (19m 50s):
Booth is a figure of the great military genital Hannibal riding a massive elephant and up overhead is the first black female pilot Bessie Coleman.

10 (19m 59s):
Oh, I didn't even see that airplane above

9 (20m 1s):
Us. There is an airplane above us with like a cool chicken it with her shades on and she's taken no one's mess the lobbies, all inspiring and stuff, but then you buy your ticket and actually enter the museum. Then everything changes a quick warning is a lot of violence of all sorts and what follows. It might not be for everyone. When you step inside the museum, it's dark immediately to the right. There's a wax figure of a slave. He's on his knees. His teeth knocked out and he's being held down by two white slavers who pull his head back. They've shoved a long funnel into his mouth and are pouring rule through it. Force feeding him brown rules spills out of his mouth as an act of rebellion.

9 (20m 46s):
Some slaves wouldn't eat. So the slave has made them. This is the very first thing you see. And then to the left is one of the museum's signature attractions. All right. So do you want to go into the slave ship? They built a facsimile of a slave ship into the museum. It's not that big, but the size of a large trailer, but when I was eight, it seemed enormous. Back then walking down to the hold below was like walking onto the amusement park ride on the opposite of fun at the entrance, there are two white wax slave merchants, both impeccably dressed, one sits behind a desk. It used to be that when you stepped onto the stairs of recording, what play one of the merchants announcing new load of slaves coming to bore.

9 (21m 32s):
Now at eight, I understood. They met me. I was supposed to be a new slave. I burst into tears at first. I refused to go all the way down to the ship, but the other kids did it. So I did it too. And what I saw when I got to the bottom of the steps was what I was seeing. Now, another vicious looking white man, and he's branding, a slave woman who has a chain around her neck and like placing the brain on her shoulder. And she's fully nude and covered in blood cheese. It's just pure. Agony is on her face and he looks like he's full of hate and anger and is just ready to torture someone.

9 (22m 19s):
None of this has changed.

11 (22m 21s):
There's collections on shelves of just parts of bodies bloody. Yeah.

9 (22m 26s):
By rats, that should be noted. Like there's one under like below that's dismembered and being eaten by rats. The museum goes for intense realism. It doesn't leave anything out. It's over the top in a way that's almost campy. This is probably because the wax figures all were made in the 1970s. The slavers have mutton chops. A few of the slaves looking like they're from good times and from roots. But the scenes are always based on undocumented atrocities at a certain point in the slave ship. I turned around and I see the entire wall behind me is one huge mirror. And then I see the chain of slaves and I'm forced to look at myself and it comes home to me in an instant that these people are my ancestors without the torture, without the sorrow about the misery that they endured during the middle passage, there would be no me.

11 (23m 20s):
So what do you remember from when you were a kid and seeing this?

9 (23m 25s):
I remember like being confused right. And being scared. The fact that it's someone who's my, my skin, my, you don't have the language for it, but it is like a pause and reflect and your eyes grew wide. And you're trying to understand what it means. I'm sorry. I just got distracted by them trying to shove the guy in the oven. So what, what? No, that's an underground railroad. It's a fake of him. It was an exhibit behind Sean of a white man helping us runaway, slave escape through an oven with the door in the back, allowing him to slip through from one house to another and another, as a kid, it wasn't like I was unfamiliar with black history, but the third grade had already been to the plantation in North Carolina where my ancestors were sold as obsessed with Thurgood Marshall.

9 (24m 16s):
I wanted to be him. I wanted to marry him, everything. I mean, elementary school. It made such a big deal about Martin Luther king. Every year that I once got to play one of Coretta, Scott King's bridesmaids in an assembly, but it was exactly that the elementary school version of black history, Dr. King Nelson Mandela, Rosa parks, the coloring book of greatest hits, not the brutal reality. None of this compares to what you see in the museums basement. The basement is so intense that the museum has posted a sign outside of it, warning that you shouldn't go into it until you're at least 12 under 16, you need a chaperone.

9 (24m 58s):
We headed there past Henry box brown, the slave who mailed himself to freedom in a box when I was a kid, he'd pop out and wave, but it startled too many kids and they don't do that anymore. We walked past Henry to the top of the basement stairs. All right. So we're going to go downstairs to the, the lynching exhibit. I didn't see the lynching exhibit when I was eight. I saw it on a second field trip. When I was a freshman in high school. I still didn't think I was ready. I don't think I was ready. Now. It starts off when you're still walking down the stairs with historical photos and newspaper clippings of actual lynchings, as recent as 1998, black people hanging from trees, set on fire, dragged by trucks, photos of the dead, surrounded by crowds of white spectators, all decked out in their Sunday.

9 (25m 51s):
Best smiling, little girls with ribbons in their hair. Looking at the camera. Some with pride, a man hanging from a tree behind them. Then at the bottom of the stairs, as soon as you round the corner, all right, so,

12 (26m 5s):
Oh boy. Yeah. You want me to just like,

9 (26m 11s):
God, you want me to describe what's happening here in front of us was a husband and wife named Hayes and Mary Turner. They lived in Georgia back in 1918, a local black man had killed the plantation owner. When the Sheriff's office went hunting for the killer. They in a mob lynched, practically every other black man in their path, Hayes Turner was one of the casualties in that massacre, a warning. This gets especially graphic just as I was about to describe what happened next to Sean, the museum's educator, Amani Hanes walked in and I was grateful. She did because she took over

13 (26m 51s):
Nothing to do with the situation. And unfortunately he was lynched afterwards. He was castrated. So what you're seeing in this scene and the exhibit is Turner lynched. He is wearing overalls and we have his overalls opened up in his private region. Blood dripping down

9 (27m 13s):
Next to Hayes is his wife married after he was lynched, Mary bravely went seeking justice for her husband. She was eight months pregnant at the time they lynched her too in the museum exhibit. She's hanging from the neck, but in real life, they actually hanged her by her feet, set him on fire, slashed her stomach open and pulled out her baby, which was still alive. That's what's depicted in wax. Then they stomped on its head. The sign on the wall adds to the story that haunted me. It's also the only part that historians can't fully verify. It reads Walter White describing the lynching of Mary Turner and her husband Hayes Turner depicted in the scene said that it was too horrible to describe the mob, taking the time to sew two cats and Mrs.

9 (27m 59s):
Turner's stomach and making bets as to which one would climb out first To the left of the trainer's bodies is a mantle piece with souvenir jars. Sometimes the Lynch's would keep pieces of their victims in these jars that were supposed to be the ears locks of hair and genitalia of black people all next to kids, baseball trophy. I'm not sure why that's there except to underscore the point that these body parts are trophies to it's a difficult room to process. When I saw this at 14, some of my classmates didn't even know how to react.

9 (28m 39s):
A few of them stoic others, actually deflecting with your, I remember feeling angry because you couldn't escape it. There are signs around the room that anticipate your distress. They say, identify with the victims and martyrs and never forget them, but do not get better or despondent over what they endured. Dr. Joanne Martin founded the museum with her husband Elmer in 1983. And when I told her all the kids in my third grade were crying and freaking out and holding hands. She was fully aware. That happens. In fact, it's intentional.

10 (29m 21s):
Maybe that's, that's the point when they leave shaken when they leave crying. And that's often the, the reaction. I have no problem with those tears. And it is what people are going to talk about years later, it's going to be our slave ship. And they're going to say, never forgot your lynching exhibit and everything else. It seems like a movie. If you don't, if you don't have a sense of exactly what people were fighting against. If you think that Rosa parks, that what she did had something to do with the seat on the bus, and you don't understand that that act was I'm going to get her jailed, but it could have gotten her Lynch as well.

9 (30m 10s):
When Joanna and her husband found it, the museum, this helped to create something they wished existed in the world. A museum that celebrated and preserved black history created by black people for black people in a majority black city. They were professors at historically black universities in Baltimore, Elmer at Morgan state and Joanna Kopan, but they wanted to reach more than just the academic class. When they visited a wax museum in St. Augustine, Florida, they fought yeah. Wax figures. That's the way to go. They had money saved for a house, but instead put it towards wax figures. It still wasn't enough. Wax figures are absurdly expensive, $4,500 then, but tens of thousands of dollars.

9 (30m 54s):
Now we ended up with their first for black history figures, Frederick Douglas, John Brown, Nat Turner, and Mary McLeod Bethune, Elmer, and Joanne would tour around with their quartet of wax figures at different schools and churches and expos.

10 (31m 10s):
We just would take the figures, set them up as exhibits, throw them into my Pontiac, take them back home to our two bedroom apartment. And so if you looked into the guest bedroom about our two bedroom apartment, you would have found Mary McLeod Bethune was head on the dresser. And Frederick Douglas is part sobering in a corner and so forth. And you know, I just gave him an ultimatum. Mary McLeod Bethune has got to go. You've got the type of place from Mary McLeod with them.

9 (31m 42s):
Dr. Martin told me, they're thinking of expanding the museum and making it more child-friendly toning down. The violence would surprise me. It doesn't seem like permission at all. It only makes sense if our history we're a little more child-friendly, which definitely isn't the four little girls Calumo in 1963 church bombing in Alabama. They're all 14 and younger. The kids who marched in Birmingham children's crusade were beaten in a dog sicked on them. They were as young as 12 and Emmett till was 14. He has Memorial in the lynching room, but he wouldn't even be allowed to go down there without a chaperone. Even though the museum upset me, I respect it.

9 (32m 24s):
It got through to me, even as an adult watching right-wing pundits discuss the greatness of America. I still think of Mary Turner and her baby, but I left the museum. I have the same feeling I did as a kid. Like I was in on a secret about what the country was really like, like all of America's truths were in a basement on north avenue,

2 (32m 54s):
BA Parker. She can be heard on the podcast, the cut from New York magazine coming up. Seventh grader gets, tasted the family business, which means breaking the law with mom and dad. And that's in a minute. I'm in Chicago public radio. When our program continues

1 (33m 12s):
Support for this American life comes from Grove collaborative, from cleaning must haves to personal care essentials groves, curated online marketplace makes the decision to go sustainable. A sinch customers can choose from over 350 plastic free items and hundreds of healthy household products from trusted brands like Mrs. Meyers, seventh generation and their very own Grove co line. For a limited time Grove collaborative is offering listeners a free starter set plus free shipping. When they go to grove.com/this American life today, that's grove.com/this American life support for this American life comes from the Wells Fargo active cash visa card.

1 (33m 52s):
For some life's a series of planned moments for everyone else. We're just living it. That's why the new Wells Fargo active cash credit card is real life ready with unlimited 2% cash rewards on purchases, whether it's last minute, staycations, impromptu dinners, we're taking that scuba class. The Wells Fargo active cash card is there with unlimited 2% cash rewards through all that life has to offer terms, apply, learn more at Wells fargo.com/active cash.

2 (34m 22s):
This American life, Myra glass today's program suitable for children, stories about the random stuff that kids encounter that just sticks with them for the rest of their lives for good or for bad. We have arrived at act three of our program at three, take your kid to work day. So in this half of the show, we have stories of kids seeing stuff that really maybe they should not see. And we begin with this story from Domingo Martinez about tagging along with his parents. When they were on the job, his dad had a trucking business in Texas that had been worse and worse over the years

14 (34m 53s):
By 1986, dad had become a truck driver with nothing left to haul, but marijuana through his early thirties, he could do little with the trucking business. He'd inherited from grandpa except watch as a crumbled around him. Back then he began his days by throwing open the door to the bedroom I shared with my brother, Dan he'd stand there in his underwear, looking like a tall diaper child and say you to get up. He would end the day drinking a lot of dollar 50 Budweisers at the shanty bars that littered the port of Brownsville at home. Mom kept the bookkeeping. She watched the flow of money, slow to a trickle, and then stop outright. When I was in middle school, my brother, sisters, and I knew things were dire when our mother stopped shopping at El central supermarket, the nice grocery store, but she'd always told us and started bringing home bags from Lopez supermarket, the poor people grocery store.

14 (35m 51s):
One morning. Mom surprises me by showing up at my seventh grade algebra class and removing me getting us on the road out of Brownsville headed north. There's no explanation sent that day. She snaps at me, sit down and shut up. They don't know why. I didn't guess what we were doing that morning. That mom and I were lookouts for dad who was on the road somewhere behind us. And one of his Flatnose tractor trailers carrying a large load of marijuana and headed north. I had heard the stories, knew some of the tactics of smuggling by this point, but I didn't make the connection that mom and I were driving ahead of dad to make sure the custom station was closed.

14 (36m 34s):
And if it happened to be open, we were supposed to turn back and warn him. This was back in the 1980s before the Patriot act. When there were two us customs checkpoints blocking the migration of drugs, fruit people, reptiles and parrots on the roads between the United States and Mexico, both about 100 miles north of the Mexican border at highway choke points. The station on highway 77 and Sarita was the busier and the better financed. The checkpoint in Hebron Ville though, was an Airstream trailer with an attached car port to protect the agents from the sun. And it would often close for breakfast or lunch. So we were headed towards that one this morning, going north on highway 2 81, driving through the scenery of asthmatic plants and stunted trees.

14 (37m 18s):
The car is hot, no air conditioning. My mom and I are saying nothing to one another. We have each decided that the other is unworthy of conversation. We stare out the windows and think very different things. Mom is thinking about the a hundred dollars she and dad had spent before six o'clock that morning, $100 that would help them make $2,000 if things went right, because their first stop on this felony excursion was to dad's good on data whom we knew as less than Yoda, dad's personal, which doctor for an emergency session, there were let right through at five in the morning. And they had only one burning question.

14 (37m 59s):
Will the checkpoint be open after years of sitting through the sessions with my grandmother, I didn't have to be there to know exactly how it went in the <inaudible> office. Listen, Yoda is older matronly dresses in a thin frocked where their hair pulled back in a bun. She has my parents sit across from her desk in a black leather loveseat with Chrome, handles a Panorama photos hanging around her office. Some wallet, sized, others larger. And in portrait, a pencil sketch of a Camaro by one of her grandsons execs to a window, she listens closely to their question. Nodding sleepily at their preoccupation sympathizing understanding they've reached a decision and they can't turn back.

14 (38m 39s):
They tell her they need to do it. No other choice anymore. She stands up abruptly and walks behind her desk, which is cluttered with sheets of notebook, paper crawling with ink illegible notes, names of people sets of cryptic numbers, home addresses of saints. She closes her eyes and scribbled something on her yellow legal pad nonsense to anyone else, reading it on her desk are two cheap leaded, crystal bottles, each filled with a clear liquid. She gently reaches for a matching shot glass and lifts it to the light, making it sparkle. She places the glass on the surface before her and poured from one bottle than the other. When the two clear liquids mix, they turn a deep Crimson and thicken like plasma.

14 (39m 22s):
She nods her head as if her suspicions have been confirmed. She produces a glass or filled with water, sitting on a black plastic ring. She sits up straight, closes her eyes and regulates her breathing into a loud rhythmic inhalation, exhalation that unconsciously forces, mom and dad to do the same. After a few seconds, she opens her eyes suddenly and strikes the glass or with a metal wand making it ring and the clear morning air. Then she lifts the are between her two pudgy hands and stares deeply into the inverted image of the room around it, sitting opposite this Chicano, airy and watching everything she does. You're drawn to the ritual and you can't help the try to figure it out to know.

14 (40m 6s):
She says with certainty, the checkpoint will not be open this morning, go and peace God be with you. When mom and I reached the checkpoint at 1145 that morning, it is very much open for business. A line of cars, five deep stretches back from the under budgeted Airstream trailer. Our job now is to go through and then turn back around and report to dad that his doom was indeed eminent. Mom is visibly shaken. She turns off the radio with a hard click and considers. This considers her options from the car.

14 (40m 47s):
We can see a skinny middle aged white guy in green border patrol garb, sitting on a reclining chair in the open doorway of the Airstream trailer. He's facing the cars as they pass under the tin roof. It must've been 110 degrees inside the trailer. A hundred in the shade from his position, never bothering to get up the agents. It's founding himself with the newspaper and sleepily peers into the cars, asking if everyone is an American citizen waiting for an accent to dancer, smiling, and then waving them through like a sympathetic priest granting absolution. Hi, where y'all going to today asked the skinny little man mom's window is now only halfway open.

14 (41m 28s):
And in her nervousness, she rolls it all the way up. Hi, sorry. I mean, San Antonio that she opens a window. Y'all American citizens. Yes. She says that she leans back so he could get a clear look at me, nodding my head. I don't say anything except the quiet. Yep. When I nod, but he has not heard me. There was an uncomfortable pause, I think, because they're supposed to hear your accent. There was an anxious beat and he still hasn't. Let us go. When I say yes, I am a bit too enthusiastically mom laughs. Nervously. She had been hoping our light-skin would exonerate us without a problem. Y'all have a nice day. He says like he hasn't noticed anything awkward.

14 (42m 11s):
We drive through and I feel her seeds for the next few miles. That was about noon somewhere behind us at a roadside rest stop dad. And my older brother, Dan are waiting in dad's tractor trailer, which is attached to the trailer with the marijuana. The two center I-beams that were in the length of the trailer. Make perfect housing. Once you weld metal plates all along the underside and at the tail end, it creates a long rectangular box sealed at the rear end with the axle of the rig where 2040 pound blocks of marijuana, that can be hidden. This is what dad and Dan.

14 (42m 51s):
Okay. I wonder dimly. If Dan has figured out what he's doing out here on the road north, when you should be in high school, but Dan has always been more streetwise, much savvier than me. I figured that if I figured it out, he'd have figured it out long before Mom and I drive on to Evansville I'm dehydrated. I want to stop at a store. We can't. She says to me, we have to turn back. I think we're behind still. I'm hungry and really thirsty.

14 (43m 32s):
So I persist. Certainly we have time to get to a convenience store. They can't have scheduled distinct to hinge on a few minutes. Certainly they've devised this more cleverly than that. Please. I played just stop at the seven 11 grudgingly. She polished the noisy car around the small town and finds a convenience store. I get out with a couple of dollars and come up short. When I tried paying for some donuts and a chocolate milk, I returned to the car for more money, just get in Scheels. And I do leaving the food at the counter. Mom whips the car around and I'm in trouble, used to it by now.

14 (44m 14s):
We traveled like that for a few minutes. And when the checkpoint is back in sight, we hold our breath. So the guy won't see us. And right then we see dad and Dan and the trailer heading right for the checkpoint data to become nervous or maybe brave, or maybe he was blinded by his hundred dollar faith in his good on data and had charged forth without waiting for mom's report. Oh God, my mother says and all the blood drains from my face, from just the tone in her voice, I had never heard her voice so charged with fear. Oh God. She says again, with her left hand, she grabs the knob that controls the headlights and flashes at dad who was only a few hundred feet from the checkpoint.

14 (44m 53s):
She flashes four times in clear view of anyone who was paying attention. I wonder if that is her signal that the checkpoint is open, but question the wisdom of doing it while he is next in line in full view of the guy at the checkpoint where he'd look over your shoulder and see the noisy southbound car that just drove through not 30 minutes before she slows down, slows, terrifically down, going less than 20 miles per hour on the highway. And for a moment I can see dad is driving. I can see that the blood is drained from his face to making his eyebrows stand out a rich black on his palette, deathly white forehead, a mask of someone pretending desperately that everything is a okay, but doing it horrifically badly.

14 (45m 35s):
I see Dan in the passenger seat holding onto the handrail, above the door as a means to steady himself into this craziness, through this stupid unnecessary risk. And he looks calm, collected uncaring. Lucky isn't there There are no cars ahead of them. Now the trailer is next in line. It slows to a crawl and I could see dad desperately trying to ignore the crazy flashing noisy Bonneville rattling through the southbound lane, keeping his eyes fixed to the road, pretending like he isn't smuggling anything in the empty trailer behind him, this empty, useless trailer with the I-beams all sealed up with the two Mexican men driving it with no obvious destination, no paperwork, no affiliation with any hauling or trucking company.

14 (46m 32s):
No sir. Not trafficking and drugs. Just driving through to Houston, probably looking for work. Oh yes. We're American citizens. That's not why we're nervous. We could prove that that's nothing. We're nervous because of the pot we're hiding. And because we're only getting $2,000 for risking upwards of 10 years in prison. Isn't that funny? Isn't that just hysterical. But the skinny white guy is having lunch and can't be bothered. And one of the weirder moments of this whole debacle, the Bonneville, the Airstream and dad's tractor are all lined up like some cosmic event. And we see the skinny border patrol agent with a white napkin tucked under his chin.

14 (47m 13s):
And dad's bloodless face up in the trailer through the window of the Airstream. As the agent waves him through with a fork like he's conducting an orchestra, go on through, go on through. Mom continues driving south stunned by what has just happened. And I am careful not to say a word. We almost reach Raymondville and stop at a water burger to get a quick wordless lunch. Then spend some time sitting in a parking lot, waiting when she feels it is safe to return. She turns the car around and heads back north back through the same checkpoint.

14 (47m 58s):
Are you sure this is safe? I ask she doesn't answer. When we pull up again to the checkpoint, headed back to Evansville around three o'clock, there was a different border patrol agent at the Airstream. He is a small clean cut, militant, Mexican with a Southern drawl y'all American citizens. He demands instantly leaning into the car through the window, clearly smelling for marijuana smoke. Oh yes. It says my mother who was probably quite relieved. The hard part is over and it looks like we're getting away with it. How about you son? You American citizen. He gives me a direct glare through reflective sunglasses.

14 (48m 38s):
There was nothing more potentially hostile than the indigenous ego interpreting the laws of his conquer upon his own people. Yes, sir. I say careful not to move her fidget or look away. Like I've learned. He looks back at my mother then at me, like he smells the nervousness of earlier something tugs at his intuition, where are y'all headed? The sunglasses finally asked this catches mom off guard. Her subterfuge had ended when dad had driven through the checkpoint. She left all her answers back in Raymondville. We're going to haver Annville. She says unconvincingly had, he asked one more question. Had he pressed it?

14 (49m 18s):
We would have been in some sort of trouble, but he doesn't. And he backs off and motions us through. Mom drives the noisy car through have Greenville. And we were about to hit the open highway again. When we noticed dad's trailer in the parking lot of a cheap motel by the side of the road, my brother is lodged between the rear most tires working on the brake lights that ridiculously aren't working mom is as alarmed to find them there. As I am. This confirms my suspicion that there had been no planning beyond the consultation at the kudos. This whole debacle had been based on nothing more than a hundred dollars worth of faith. Mom pulls up next to the trailer and I think she expects a victorious reunion.

14 (50m 2s):
When he sees her dad suddenly looks like he's about to punch her stupid fucking woman. He yells at her in Spanish. Mom stops cold. What the fuck were you thinking? If they would have just turned around for a moment, it would all be over and it would all be your fault. He spits out her in Spanish. We realize what he's upset about the flashing headlights. As the words, continue to snap in his, around her like bullets in a firefight. And she follows him forward to the cab. The truck kowtowing to her punishment. Lucky for us lesson Yoda was right. Dad says, walking back with mom, no excited and seemingly over his anger. She made them blind and we were let through, like they were closed.

14 (50m 51s):
When we left them later that evening, Dan was doing the driver. They pulled out of the parking lot and headed off to Houston and their pay off the brake lights temporarily fixed and loops of black electrical tape. I watch as the truck disappears, it looks like every other piece of now broken down equipment we've ever owned, rusting miserable and totally criminal mom. And I turned south back to Brownsville. Mama's are usual quiet self. Except this time she plays the radio louder. This means she's thinking it's getting dark and I'm sleepy. So I sleep. She'll get us home. She knows the way for that.

14 (51m 31s):
I could trust her

2 (51m 38s):
Domingo Martinez reading a story from his collection, the boy Kings of Texas, which is a memoir and was a finalist for the national book award At, for rocket boy. So because our program today with somebody who was just a teenager, when the army ordered him to report to camp desert rock, which was next to the atomic energy commission's bomb testing range in Nevada in 1955 to do something, he was totally unprepared for the way. I think maybe nobody could be prepared for this. He was 19. His name was Paul Zimmer. He grew up to be a writer and a poet, and he wrote about what happened there. He wrote this account back in the first year of the Trump administration.

2 (52m 20s):
If you remember, when North Korea was doing test launches of Intercontinental missiles and president Trump was threatening, retaliation demanding, they stop. Anyway, Paul's account was read for us by an actor. John Conway

16 (52m 32s):
I'd paid attention. I'd seen the newsreels of Hiroshima, but just watching atomic bombs go off. I thought it was going to be kind of cool. Thought the story be a way to interest girls. They didn't tell us anything about what was going to happen. No initiation, no training. And the first time I had no idea what to expect. We traveled by convoy and buses in the middle of the night to assemble it. The site shuffled around in the cold chain smoking until we were ordered into the trenches. The trenches were long thin slits in the desert earth. Only wide enough for us to line up single file. We wore steel helmets, but were not issued earplugs eye covers or any protective clothing.

16 (53m 19s):
Then they told us to get down, not become fearful until the countdown was broadcast over the loud speakers. And I only became terrified when I saw the flash right enough where even with my eyes closed, I could see the bones of my hands over my eyes, shockwave crashed over the trench top. And we were ordered to stand up and look, we did and saw the mushroom cloud glowing purple changing colors, rising, rising up. I saw eight atomic blasts and total all on different days.

16 (53m 60s):
Some devices dropped from airplanes. Some detonated from towers. There was an aerial burst in an underground blast as well. Sometimes during the shock wave, a trench sides caved in buried us alive. So we had to claw our way out from our own graves. Some poor doggies and Jeeps were assigned to drive forward with Geiger counters and radio transmitters. When clearance was radioed back, we were ordered to walk forward into the blast area to bear witness. Far as I could tell bearing witness was the entire reason we were their largest Palm I witness was called Turk and it was almost three times.

16 (54m 41s):
The size of the Hiroshima bomb was dropped from a 500 foot tower. And our trenches were approximately two and a half miles from ground zero. The blast yield was bigger than expected. So the bras ordered us to retreat, to the buses where we swept each other off with kitchen brooms and hustled into our seats. Next morning, some of us were bused back into the area in our fatigues and ordered to walk forward to bear witness. There was still a heavy smell of ozone in the air. Vegetation was shredded scorched torn out by the roots.

16 (55m 21s):
Small animals and birds were scattered dead, crippled and blind lurching about. So I'm still trying to find a place to hide. We walked past crumpled vehicles and Arturo pieces that had been placed in the open mannequin staked out khakis torn apart and melted grotesquely cage, Cheshire pigs that had been dressed in specially fitting army uniforms or dead or mangled. The ladder still shrieking. Their last herds, blasted sheep and cows were mangled together. Dead moaning, staged houses and barns were splintered and scattered.

16 (56m 3s):
We never had to write reports nor did anyone ask us what we saw because it turned out they were looking at us. They wanted to see how young men reacted to an atomic blast. Apparently that's all they wanted to do. Maya was not selected because I was special. I had no need for aside, from being a 19 year old boy, Over the years of America's open air atomic bomb testing in Nevada, a few thousand army men participated does not matter anymore. That only feeble attempts were made by the government to find out how these experiences affected us lately.

16 (56m 49s):
I've begun to realize that I am one of the last people living in America to have actually experienced close-up explosions of atomic bombs. We're all dying. Now. Most of us are already dead. I'm not aware of anyone's health being affected by the blasts, but some years ago, I did check with the veterans administration about the possible radiation dosage I received during my participation. I was informed that the radiation film badge that I wore throughout my four months at desert rock had been burned up in a government warehouse records fired in St. Louis some decades ago. Now in my late years, when I can conjure that brief, surreal period of my youth, I try and vain to make some sense of it.

16 (57m 38s):
And some ways that has become my responsibility to at least recollect and tell how that great flash and blast permanently reached into my very young mind and heart. Although it was enormous sounds dead, and my ears are still ringing them to this day. How the crush of shock waves sometimes buried us alive in our trenches. I feel it my duty to tell the reckless absurdity of it all and August our president threatened to unleash fire and fury like the world has never seen, we keep threatening to unleash these bombs.

16 (58m 18s):
And so I suspect that one day we will, most of us have forgotten what we are capable of. I have not.

2 (58m 38s):
John Conley reading an essay by Paul Zimmer. A version of this essay was first published in the Georgia review. Paul Zimmer died in 2019. He was 85 or for his life. He had health problems that he and his family believed were related to his radiation exposure,

17 (58m 56s):
The future in the future, make it Into the file. We go again. We go again, shake it off before we get sued.

2 (59m 14s):
Well, the program is produced today by Jonathan <inaudible> people who put a show together include Susan Burton. Ben Calhoun's. So he chased in Chivez Sean Cole, Dangerfield, Neil drumming, Stephanie <inaudible>, Maria Kareem G David Kestenbaum, Mickey Nick BA Parker, Robin Semyon, Lily Sullivan, Christopher. So Tyler, Matt Tierney, Nancy Updike, and Diane Wu senior producer for today's program is Brian Reed production open today's rerun from Corey Weiner special. Thanks today to Rebecca Sosa to Eve Stockland at the door. John Freeman Tasneem. Roger, we Hancock Rhonda Parker, TaShawn Grover Francis Guidon, Mary Zimmerman, and Bruce Norris, our website, this American life.org. This American life is a little bit of public radio stations by PRX, the public radio exchange.

2 (59m 55s):
Thanks as always to our programs. Co-founder Mr. <inaudible> who lists his personal advices this way. He has five vices by exactly five drugs, fruit

1 (1h 0m 4s):
People, reptiles

2 (1h 0m 6s):
And parrots and IRA glass back next week with more stories, this American life Next week on the podcast of this American life. When Melinda's husband became a climate activist, she wasn't sure just how far she was going to go for the planet. Like for instance, when he canceled their family vacation

18 (1h 0m 42s):
And he was like, we're not going. We're not, he's like, no, we're never getting on a plane again. We're not, I missed that memo. What,

2 (1h 0m 51s):
What, what, what happens when a really good cause takes over a family next week on the podcast on your local public radio station?