0 (0s):
Support for this American life comes from nine 12 a podcast hosted by Dan Tyburski. It's the 20th anniversary of the terrorist attacks of September 11th. But Dan Tyburski, isn't interested in that day. He wants to talk about what happened the next day. And every day after that, nine 12 tells the stories of a series of characters whose lives would never be the same after September 11th, follow nine 12, wherever you get your podcasts, or you can binge all seven episodes right now on Amazon music or with Wondery plus a quick warning. There are curse words that are and beeped in today's episode of the show. If you prefer a beeped version, you can find that at our website, this American life.org,

1 (45s):
It's been the kind of summary that makes it seem like the alarmists were right about everything he waves and drought and wildfires across the west hurricanes, along the east coast, drowning people in the cars, in New Jersey and in their basement apartments in New York. So yeah, climate change is real and most Americans believe that is what we're seeing right now. But for most of us, including me knowing that that is our future, it doesn't change much for us. You know, it's like knowing that you're going to die someday, like sure. True. And then you put it aside, go on with your day, but there are people out there who look at the same evidence that the rest of us do.

1 (1m 26s):
And they just, I don't know, take it to heart in a way that most of us don't, they have a wake up moment. Rebecca Huntley had one, totally took her by surprise.

2 (1m 35s):
So I'm a really early riser. I'm like a 5:30 AM. Right? I think a lot of moms are because it's sometimes the only time that you have any quiet time, like everyone's asleep, make the first of 10 coffees that I'll consume that day, sit on the couch, turn the TV on. And I just say all of these young Australians, like thousands of them walking on the streets of Sydney, which is where I leave all of them, looking like that could be, you know, friends of my oldest daughter.

1 (2m 8s):
It was a massive climate strike, young people, skipping school to protest inspired by Greta Toon, Berg and her protest.

2 (2m 14s):
And now we're carrying all these signs. You know, most of them handmade saying we can't vote. We don't have a lot of money. We don't have a lot of power individually. Or even as a group do something.

1 (2m 28s):
She says, it felt like they were pleading for action they're generation to hers. And the fact that they seemed exactly like her own children, it just got to her in this way. That was new.

2 (2m 39s):
And I realized actually, these kids are talking directly to me specifically, to me, it felt so personal and I made to do something and something in me shifted at that exact moment. It felt physical. I felt an internal physical sensation. And even now as I talk it, I'm not, I'm not a crier. I actually well up with tears thinking about it because it was this genuine sense of, you know, I can think about my kids and the things that I do for them every day. You know, I make sure they brush their teeth and I make sure they do their math homework. And this is one of those things, you know, suddenly the fact that we've got a very limited period of time to turn this around, you know, the scientists talk about, you know, 10 years they talk about 2030.

2 (3m 29s):
So we've got the next decade. And in the next decade, my youngest kids won't yet have finished high school. And it just suddenly seemed so extraordinarily urgent, critically important. And I remember finishing my coffee, getting up off the couch and I went straight to my study and I logged into my, you would describe it as a pension fund, but we call it superannuation. And within 10 minutes, I'd divested my superannuation completely away from fossil fuels. And so that was one of, you know, hundreds of different things that I started to do from that point on triggered.

2 (4m 15s):
By that moment,

1 (4m 17s):
Rebecca actually talked to one of our producers to be able to Kornfeld who in the last few months has interviewed dozens of people who have had these wake up moments. Hey, the review, Hey IRA. So these happen in all kinds of different ways, right?

4 (4m 28s):
Yeah, yeah. To all kinds of different people, all of whom actually made a point to tell me they did not consider themselves environmentalist in any way prior to their wake-up moment. Oh, wow. Yeah. It's more like they were just walking around and got bunked on the head and then everything changed. People describe it, like waking up in a bizarro world where everything's the same, but the way they feel about it is totally different. The wake up reorganizes their priorities completely. In fact, lots of support groups have popped up in the past few years to help people deal with the immensity of these new feelings. What happened to Rebecca In Rebecca's case, she totally changed the focus of her career, pivoted it to climate issues. She also cut back on eating meat, decided she needed to get an electric car or have no car.

4 (5m 14s):
And those are the kinds of things that would affect the rest of her family, her husband and her kids. And what I found in these interviews is that this is where the trouble comes in for so many people. Like when their families haven't undergone the same transformation that they have. Right.

1 (5m 28s):
That makes sense.

4 (5m 29s):
Yeah. Everyone mentioned some version of this, like this one guy, Glen Schleicher I talked to after his wake-up moment, he tried to convince his whole family, brothers, sisters, nieces, nephews, to all see this, the way that he now did and to come to climate rallies with him,

5 (5m 44s):
The common reaction that I got was, wow. I didn't know. You were so passionate about this environmental stuff or like you're really into this. It's really like interesting. It's great. It's great. I really support you. It's great that you're into this. And that was just like, that was so frustrating to me. Cause I'm like, I'm not into this. It's just what's happening. It's like if there was a truck barreling toward us and I was trying to get us out of the way, you wouldn't be like, why are you super passionate about trucks? Like I just didn't know. You're like, so into trucks, like, was this always the thing I think it's really great that you had this interest. Like, no, this is just what's happening. So I was like, you just keep running back and forth like that.

5 (6m 24s):
Yelling at people, do you ruin your relationships? And I realized that I was potentially impacting relationships that are the most important thing to me in the world for no benefit,

4 (6m 40s):
No benefit, because,

5 (6m 42s):
Because it wasn't changing. Anyone's mind it wasn't working.

4 (6m 51s):
So Glenn decided to leave his family alone, but other people told me that they couldn't back off in the same way. And it's had a huge impact on some of their closest relationships.

1 (7m 1s):
And that actually brings us to today's program. The idea for our show today came from a Viva's interest in these families where one person sees something that feels big and important and urgent, and they try to bring everybody along and it is just bad for everyone. We have one story like that was a story about a surprisingly effective way to deal with the problems of the world. Large and small from WBZ Chicago. It's this American life I'm Eric Glass stay with us 1.5 degrees of separation. So if he was interested in the toll that having a wake up moment like this could have on a family.

1 (7m 44s):
And she heard about somebody who had a moment like this over a decade ago, and it led him to quit his job, dedicated his life to activism. He tried to pull his family into it. And what unfolded was the most extreme example of things going badly in a family that have you ever heard of? They pretty much destroyed his family. He ended up estranged from them. The guy is named Michael Foster. And when have you ever reached out and asked him if he would talk about how his climate activism had damaged his relationship with his wife and children, he was totally up for it. But he told of Eva that he, that his kid's side of the story, it was actually more important than his, he thought it was crucial that she's talked to them, which of course the Viva wanted to do. Both children are now young adults.

1 (8m 26s):
They were glad to talk. What happened in their family is not necessarily typical of climate activists. Mike's activism shifted the whole center of gravity of their family in ways that are definitely particular to his personality, but the immense end of the world, stakes of the issue where, what sent Mike and his wife, Melinda and their kids down the path, they went, here's the viewer.

4 (8m 50s):
Mike and Melinda were never the kind of couple who saw eye to eye on the big stuff they met when they were in high school in Texas, they both did speech and debate and would see one another at the competitions that they weren't really friends. Mike, who was an evangelical Christian at the time, carried a Bible everywhere and led prayer circles before the tournament's all Melinda and her friends would smoke weed out back.

6 (9m 13s):
I mean, his story is that first time he really remembers meeting me was when he had just finished leading a prayer circle and he met me and I had a button. This is back when you wore buttons. And it said not saved. And his mind just kind of melted that someone would proudly wear a, not saved button.

7 (9m 34s):
That's my story. How dare she tell my story? My mind melted. Like, I didn't know that there were people out there who could just be happy and funny and, and saying, yeah, I'm not saved.

4 (9m 50s):
Each felt like the other was this kind of exotic bird or something totally foreign to them, but also sort of mesmerizing. And so when they went to the same college nearby, they started dating. Mike was no longer an evangelical Christian at that point. But Melinda says the relationship was still very rom com opposites attract. They broke up and got back together all throughout college and then found each other again in their late twenties. At that point, Mike was a child and family therapist taking kids to the outdoors to do a kind of wilderness therapy. And Melinda had a corporate job was making good money.

6 (10m 26s):
So we were together for a few years. He had asked me to marry him a few times and I was like, you know, I don't think it's a good idea for us to get married. We're just two different.

4 (10m 37s):
But Mike felt familiar in a way that only first loves can. So eventually Linda said yes to Mike's proposal. They got married, had two kids, Emerson, Stella lived in Seattle at this point, climate change. Wasn't a big part of their lives beyond the basic stuff.

7 (10m 55s):
I mean, I w we were, we were really green. We were kind of cartoon green Seattle family. So whatever stereotype you have, that was what we were doing.

4 (11m 9s):
They recycled, composted, these energy efficient light bulbs. And then one day Mike heard about this new documentary. He wanted to go see,

8 (11m 18s):
I am Al gore. I used to be the next president of the United States.

4 (11m 23s):
An inconvenient truth might convinced Belinda to go see it with them for their date night, sitting there in the dark. Mike felt like Al gore had taken all the dots of information about climate change. The Macon picked up over the past couple of decades and arrange them into a pointillist painting of our future. And the picture was grimmer and more dramatic than he thought.

7 (11m 44s):
And then, you know, at the end of it, it, it has the credits roll. And during the credits, it will on this black screen, have these little white letters that say things like plant a tree, change your light bulbs, drive less. And that's it, right? So you've just spent an hour and a half learning that the world is ending and nobody's doing anything and you're supposed to plant a tree. So there is this kind of like major, major disconnect of wait a minute. That's that's not going to do it. That's not even close

4 (12m 26s):
Before the documentary. Mike thought we had time. Now, it seemed clear to him. We were just a few decades away from a radically different planet. Mike started pouring over climate research, reading every day. He traveled to California to go to a training led by Al gore himself, where he learned to give a slideshow about climate change. When he came back from the training, Mike showed his kids a slideshow and presented it at their schools, Amaris Mike's older kid who, by the way, it uses the pronouns. They, them remembers being excited by that. This was in 2012 and was 10 at the time,

9 (13m 4s):
It felt like, kind of like minor celebrity status, right? Because my dad was a guest speaker than I needed everyone to know that, like, that was my dad. It's like, you know, the presentation we're having today. Yeah. My dad's doing that. Like I heard that my dad's going to be coming like next week to do a presentation in class.

4 (13m 20s):
Yes. Mike and his kids start climate clubs at their schools. Mike also teaches Emerson, Stella, the slide show. And they all start going around to teach it together. Both kids threw themselves into the work for Emeris. The importance of the topic immediately resonated, but Stella who's eight had a much simpler reason.

9 (13m 40s):
It was a way for me to get his attention. If I asked a question, he would be paying attention to just me rather than like the family, which I guess is kind of selfish. But like at the time I was like, dad, look over here. I can ask questions about climate change. I'm smart

4 (14m 4s):
News of Mike slideshow spread. And he started being invited to present at other schools pretty early on. Mike decided that kids were the answer. His activism would focus on them. That was already a specialty as a therapist. And he figured children have the most at stake here. They're open to the message and adults will be able to hear the science from them differently than they'll hear it from other adults. So Mike's first big step down that path. He organized a March with a national kid centered climate group called I matter, he says the Seattle police give the marchers a 14 motorcycle escort to pike place market Emerson, Stella, both spoke at the March.

4 (14m 44s):
And Mara said, they'd never talked in front of so many people before

9 (14m 47s):
He like helped me write my speech and hand me practice at a ton, super excited to speak there. Cause like everybody's attention was on me,

4 (14m 56s):
Stella, the younger one found all the attention, a little overwhelming.

9 (15m 2s):
The main thing I remember was like looking at my dad to kind of focus my gaze

4 (15m 9s):
To steady you. Yeah.

9 (15m 12s):
I really looked at him to kind of not freak out

4 (15m 16s):
In this speech and all the ones after it. Emma says that might give each of them specific roles to fill roles that Emma says they naturally fit into.

9 (15m 25s):
Stella was the one that would make the audience go, oh my gosh, she's so cute. And I'm nine years old. And then I was the one who was supposed to make the audience go like, oh, okay. Wow.

4 (15m 41s):
It was like a one-two punch, like Stella disarmed them. And then you went in for the kill.

9 (15m 46s):
Yeah, basically. Yeah. I think I was a little bit supposed to scare people.

10 (15m 52s):
I just need to get adults to get their acts together and realize that each year they wait is 30 more years of floods, fires, droughts, famines, and extinction

4 (16m 0s):
For Melinda watching Mike and the kids give speeches and spend so much time together. It was really nice. They're having fun and working on something that felt so important. She wasn't around much to help. She had a big job at a telecommunications company that kept her busy and on the road a lot at the time. But she jumped in where she could. She made a website for Mike and did a lot of the behind the scenes logistics stuff. She's good at Mike got more ambitious and brought the kids along. They started organizing for plant for the planet, a kid run organization with the goal of planting a trillion trees, the whole family recruited friends to join Mike, quit his job to focus on climate work.

4 (16m 47s):
Emerson, Stella met the governor and the mayor. They were lead plaintiffs in a lawsuit against the state of Washington to curb emissions. They're in an HBO documentary about kid climate activists, but none of that stuff felt like enough to Mike. He was thinking more about the way he and the family were living at home.

7 (17m 7s):
Melinda and I had an agreement, you know, like I was the vegetarian, I was the one, you know, doing the, like make the world better stuff. And she was the one who was working at the corporate giant paying the bills. And I was fine with that. But when I'm doing these climate talks and I mean like one day would be five talks and I'm hearing myself going over this material and really grasping what I'm saying. It became harder for me to be okay with the trip Hawaii

4 (17m 51s):
Harder for Mike to be okay because airplanes emit so much carbon dioxide. So,

7 (17m 55s):
So I went out on a limb and I was like, this, this, this has no integrity for me anymore. I can't just go along with our agreement.

4 (18m 7s):
Other people I talked to who went through a wake up moment, they also got to this point, they came to believe that we have to change our behavior in all kinds of ways to avoid the worst case scenarios. And we have to do that. Knowing individual action, won't be enough, one family driving an electric car or giving up plastic straws. Isn't going to do the job. Any serious climate solution will require an overhaul of our energy sources at a global level, but it will also require us to live differently without that the situation won't change. And that's where things get messy, deciding where to draw the line in your own family.

6 (18m 48s):
The kids really wanted to get a cat. And I was like, well, I grew up with pets. I think that'd be great. And he said, no, we can't do that. And I'm trying to understand why he says the carbon footprint of a domesticated house pet are ridiculous.

4 (19m 4s):
That is all the processed meat, the petsy and the cans and plastic. The food comes in. Plus cat litter, dog toys, chips to the vet.

6 (19m 12s):
We're not going to support that. There cannot be pets in this house.

4 (19m 16s):
The family ended up settling on getting chickens, which turned out to be a good compromise because the kids loved the chickens. And Mike was happy. The chickens produced eggs because then they wouldn't be supporting factory farms that produce supermarket eggs. But flying on planes became a real point of contention in the family. Melinda wanted to take the kids to Disney world for vacation.

6 (19m 38s):
We're not going. We're not, he's like, no, we're never getting on a plane again. We're not, I missed that memo. What, what? And I made the mistake of saying, but I fly for work. And he was like, exactly. And maybe if you didn't fly, the world would be a better place

4 (20m 0s):
To Mike flying felt like an existential threat to his kids' futures. And to everyone's

7 (20m 7s):
It was unbearable for me to continue doing the things that were going to make their life impossible, actually impossible in the near future.

4 (20m 18s):
At the time, did you have any doubts about the lifestyle changes you were making? Because you're sort of having to balance really believing in the cause and also accepting that you're a dad with two kids and you know, maybe one pet doesn't actually make that big of a difference in the grand scheme of things. But it does make a really big difference in my kids' lives. Like how did you balance that?

7 (20m 40s):
That was really impossible to balance because I'm not talking about a cause because I'm talking about their survival and the things they're going to suffer when they get older. So anyway, so, so I'm sorry I'm getting into the preaching mode and we're trying to talk family here, but, but to me it's the same thing.

4 (21m 0s):
So Melinda kept flying for work, but nobody else flew. And Melinda didn't like all these changes, but she didn't disagree. Exactly.

6 (21m 11s):
I'm a change is a noble cause. That was what I was telling myself. This is for the world. This is for a better future for my children and their children. Why am I being such a bitch about it?

4 (21m 38s):
One of the biggest ways climate activism changed this family is that it turned Mike into a kind of stage dad performing with his kids all the time with all the tension and friction that comes with that. It was especially intense because Mike's climate work was all about kids. So we needed his kids to be the face of it. Here's how

9 (21m 57s):
I started having issues with my dad when it was like, he started feeling more like a coach than a dad. And he was just like bringing more and more and more things. It's like I would wake up in the morning and he would be like, we're leaving in two hours. There's a presentation. Here's your notes. You have to speak, write a speech. Now

4 (22m 17s):
Emma said, I always like giving speeches, like driving them. The Mike wanted to see their speeches ahead of time and practice and would get angry if they didn't let him get mad afterwards, if he thought they didn't hit the right points in front of crowds, Mike was always complimentary of their speeches.

9 (22m 33s):
It's like when, like if you're in a theater production and like the director like gives a talk after the show or something, like I was the actor, I played my little part and then he would come out and be like, oh, I'm so proud. Like they did an amazing job.

11 (22m 50s):
My name is Michael Foster and I am a proud Papa right now. I don't know what to say. They blow me away every single time.

9 (22m 59s):
And then once the audience leaves, it's time for notes. Once they're not looking, then you talk about what you did wrong and everything that you have to do better next time to put it politely

4 (23m 15s):
Since Melinda was off working so much at the time supporting the family, she had no real sense that increasingly this had become Emerson. Mike's dynamic until one day the kids had to speech far outside of town. Melinda drove the family to, and from the speech, since she had a hybrid car and Mike's electric car couldn't make it that far

6 (23m 37s):
Amaris had given a speech. And I thought it was brilliant. You know, I'm the mom. And we got in the car and I was driving and Mike was in the seat next to me. And the kids were in the back and he was yelling because EMRs hadn't let him read the speech before they gave it. And he was saying, you should've let me read that speech before, because I would have told you at the time, I would have told you that you were missing these points and God down. If you had, let me see that you would have done a better job. You missed your opportunity. You fucked it up and you miss your opportunity and I'm driving one. Whoa. So let me just say, I thought it was great.

6 (24m 19s):
What do you know? You don't even listen to half the time. And I was like, no,

4 (24m 33s):
Looking back, Linda points to this moment. It's one of her failures that she let her kids give speeches after this. But at the time Mike was so confident in what was right. And Melinda didn't trust the feeling that told her otherwise.

6 (24m 48s):
So I'd like, well, maybe this is their dynamic. Maybe this is how they communicate that they flare up. And they, not that the kids ever yelled, but maybe Mike yells, but maybe that's how it works. And because the next day they're working on it again

4 (25m 3s):
And he's a family therapist or child, their child

6 (25m 6s):
And family therapist. So, you know, there's that hanging over my head too, of like he knows he's the expert.

4 (25m 21s):
This is just the beginning of their family breaking apart. And one of the reasons Mike was eager to speak with me is because he feels pretty in the dark about what happened, what split his family up and left his kids. So bitter that at this point, they haven't spoken to him in years. He doesn't get what he could have done. That was so bad. His family still wants nothing to do with him. He said, he feels like he's an Agatha Christie novel. He knows he's the killer. He just has no idea how he did it. When we spoke, Mike never contested anyone's memories of what went down. He told me if they said it, I believe it. He knows he has a temper. Linda said he's always had one in college. He'd have blow ups though.

4 (26m 1s):
She always knew how to calm him down. But Mike and Melinda and the kids all agree. The outbursts ramped up considerably after Mike got into climate activism, Linda said he was never physically violent with her or the kids, but the frequency and the focus of the blow ups changed.

7 (26m 19s):
I would just go from zero to 90 and you would not see a common. And all of a sudden it was like, you know, inside me, it felt like, okay, the world is going to end because of this. Right. Because it, because of something somebody did or said or whatever, you know, like if we, if we can't, if, if our family or you and me can't do this one simple thing, then how does the world get to remain living?

4 (26m 51s):
Right? Like, cause mistakes always felt that high.

7 (26m 54s):
Yeah. Like sometimes it would just be like, okay, we, I am this person who's in this role trying to like say, here's how we get to live on earth for the next 10,000 years. And I can't persuade my family to let go of the Starbucks cup or whatever the thing was at the moment. Okay. So then the world ends. That's

4 (27m 19s):
What it actually felt like to,

7 (27m 21s):
Yeah,

4 (27m 23s):
More than once my called Stella fucking bitch and a cunt Stella said before my gut into climate activism, he would yell at her about the kind of stuff any parent might for lying about brushing her teeth, her staying up late past bedtime. But in those instances, Stella knew her dad still loved her. Now she worried about that.

9 (27m 43s):
I had a good father for years move for the climate change started like there were flaws, but it was only once. Like it, it was climate change where he put so much of himself into it and wanted me to put so much of myself into it that I really got the feeling that his love was completely conditional.

4 (28m 15s):
Stella remembers when she realized she was over climate activism, it was a nine and a half birthday. They celebrate half birthdays in their family. And in celebration, they'd planned a dinner at one of Stella's favorite restaurants. But before they left the house, something happened to set Mike off. And he started ranting about the state of the world. Stella said that when her dad got into climate talk mode, there was nothing to do, but listen, 15 minutes to CLI and then 30 then 45.

9 (28m 44s):
I just remember thinking, like, I just want to talk about what we did at school today. I want to talk about this cat. I saw on the walk home. I want to talk on my half birthday and feeling like it was not an option for me to talk because he was talking.

4 (29m 9s):
Stella never told anyone she wanted to quit activism because deep down she felt like she had this personal responsibility to stop climate change. Secretly Amaris was feeling the same way.

9 (29m 21s):
The more I started realizing that I didn't want to do it. The worse a person, I was like, horrible things are going to happen to people because I'm not willing to do this. It felt like I was the worst person in the world. It was all guilt all the time and fear was of him

4 (29m 42s):
And fear of the apocalypse. Stella's carbon footprint started to haunt her. When her mom drove her to school. When she drank a glass of milk, even when she exhaled, sometimes she'd think all I'm doing is putting more carbon dioxide into the air. She started having nightmares every night of the world, burning or of oceans rising and flooding her house or going to the grocery store and finding the shelves completely bare because droughts had killed off all the plants. Mike and Melinda both told me they had no idea that the kids were feeling this way at the time, which Emerson Stella said makes sense.

4 (30m 22s):
They were good at hiding it. When I asked Mike about how bad the kids felt, he said he never meant to make his kids feel as bad as they did, but he also defended guilt as a tactic.

7 (30m 33s):
Guilt is seriously underrated, guilt and shame. Keep people from murdering each other. And honestly, guilt may be one of the few things that could keep life on earth going for the next 10,000 years. If we can't feel guilt or shame about what we're doing and learn how to do something else it's over, it was over a long time ago.

4 (31m 8s):
One way to hear this story is that it's not about climate change, but about a dad who sort of goes off the deep end for reasons that have more to do with his own personality than anything else. But I can't dismiss the role. Climate change plays in a story. I think the grim picture of the future that might carry is in his head is actually more accurate than the picture. Most of us carry around this genuinely hard to figure out the right way to have feelings about climate change. It's easy to lose perspective when the problem is so vast and woven into every part of how we live, how we get to work, what we eat and the stakes are so high.

4 (31m 55s):
I talked to other people who had a wake up moments, many of whom are reasonable and kind, and not alarmist by nature who alienated their families. And in lots of cases lost their families in the wake of their new found clarity, Melinda and the kids see all that, but also believe it didn't have to go this way. Melinda said that to me in our very first conversation, Mike could have done as climate work without torturing his family. That is, he didn't need to cuss out his kids

1 (32m 35s):
Coming up. How the most ambitious, arguably most successful thing you ever as a political activist can also be the worst thing that you do for your family. That's in a minute from Chicago public radio. When our program continues

0 (32m 50s):
Support for this American life comes from capital. One, searching for coupon codes is kind of a bummer. So make saving online a breeze with capital one, shopping capital one. Shopping is a free tool that instantly searches for available coupon codes and automatically applies them at checkout. Just download capital one, shopping to your computer and let it do the work for you so easy. And you don't even need a capital one card to use it. Capital one, shopping what's in your wallet, savings and available coupons. Very support for this American life comes from 3m committed to protecting healthcare workers globally. 3m employee. Chris knows that healthcare workers like his daughter may need to get up close to provide patient care.

0 (33m 34s):
He's working hard to direct high performing personal protective equipment to hospitals and hotspots. So she and nurses like her can be protected while caring for their patients. Hear their story at 3m.com/improving lives. 3m science applied to life.

1 (33m 52s):
It's this American life. My reclass today's program, the end of the world. As we know it, if you're just tuning in we're in the middle of a Viva to Kornfeld story about Mike Foster and his family. And I was climate activism with two changes in their family and ultimately divorce and his estrangement from his two kids we hadn't spoken with in years, we will pick up where we left off both of his kids, Stella and Emeris want to quit doing activism with her dad. Again, here's the Veeva.

4 (34m 18s):
It takes about two years of going to climate meetings and speaking at rallies with their dad before Stella and Emeris confided in each other about how they really felt about it and what they actually wanted. Here's Mrs.

9 (34m 30s):
I remember we were out on the back porch, like going inside and still stopped me. And she was like, she whispered, do you think mom and dad are going to get a divorce? And I was like, I don't know, but I kind of hope so. And she was like, me too. And that was really, yeah, after that, it was kind of better because we like had that solidarity.

4 (34m 53s):
Stella started doing secret research about parental custody to figure out the odds that she and Emeris would get to live with their mom in the event that her parents did get divorced. And she started dropping hints. She was just beginning sixth grade around this time. And our school offered these elective support groups. There were a bunch of different options. And one of the groups was for kids with divorced parents. That was a group Stella signed up for when Melinda found out which group Stella had joined and asked her about it, Stella shrugged and said, you know, just in case Things continued like this for awhile, everyone going through the motions until it all came to head one night, Emeris wanted to go to a fallout boy concert.

4 (35m 41s):
Mike insisted they come to the monthly plant for the planet meeting. Instead the meeting was over Emerson, Stella waited by the car for 45 minutes in the cold before he came out,

9 (35m 52s):
We started driving home. I think I was very obviously sulking. And ultimately I told him that I was like annoyed, that he had taken so long to come back and that I hadn't really wanted to go to the meeting in the first place. And he just lost it. He got so mad.

4 (36m 15s):
Stella remembers this night too.

9 (36m 17s):
He was shouting in this car, just yelling like you're ungrateful. You don't realize how much I do for you. Why can't you just go along with it for one night? What is your problem? What is so important about this fucking concert? And he was driving erratic. He would pull the car over super fast and turn and start yelling at us again, like unprompted.

4 (36m 49s):
And what are you guys doing

9 (36m 50s):
At that point? We are literally both of us are just sitting in the backseat. Mel's closed eyes, wide crying, absolutely terrified. I'd never seen him that angry and I'd seen him get angry a lot. And so yeah, when we came home, we just like got out of the car as fast as we possibly could and ran inside, like to get to our mom because it was like the safe zone and like a game of tag or something. It was like, she meant protection from him.

6 (37m 23s):
I was in the family room and the door flew open. The kids came running in crying sobbing, and their dad came running in after them screaming at the top of his lungs. And I'm like, whoa, whoa, whoa, what is, what is happening here? What is going on? And I went upstairs to talk to the kids and they said they were afraid that they were going to die in the car. I'm like, what the hell happened?

4 (37m 51s):
Melinda made up her mind. Not long after that night. She told Mike she wanted a divorce. My, because of the climate divorce, Melinda says, no. If anything, climate change kept them together longer than they should have been.

6 (38m 7s):
I, I feel like I, I looked past and accepted so much more of what was bad because it was in service of climate change. If he had been a Q and on conspirator, it would have been so easy for me to say, no, not doing that, but it's climate change.

4 (38m 40s):
Mike and Melinda get divorced and Mike moves just a few blocks away. The kids get to live with their mom. Full-time as they'd hoped and to establish some sort of new relationship with Mike, they try a couple rounds of family therapy. But according to the therapist notes, the first round crashes and burns because Mike keeps interrupting to explain climate change and the importance of his work to the therapist. When they try again, months later, Stella gets up the courage to tell them like her big secret for the first time that she doesn't want to be a climate activist anymore, that she was only doing it because she felt he gave her no choice. Stella figured he'd say he was sorry. And she prepared herself to forgive him.

4 (39m 21s):
But instead it makes him angry. He did apologize. But the thing he apologized for was that he hadn't invited her to more climate events so that she'd be more emotionally invested in the cause. See it the way he did a word to listeners who might be sensitive to this, this next part of the story I mentioned self-harm,

9 (39m 42s):
But I just remember feeling like I'm never going to escape him and wanting everything to just be done with because I was so tired of having to explain these things that I'd gone through and having to think about him and having to talk about him and talk to him and having him not be who I needed him to be when I needed it. It just all became too much.

4 (40m 22s):
I'm about an hour and a half after the session with her dad, Stella attempted suicide. She spent the next eight days in the hospital. She told her mom to keep her dad away from her. She didn't even want him to know she was in there for,

9 (40m 36s):
For me. It was the first time that I said, no. I mean, it wasn't very dignified. I was kind of like screaming and crying. Like, no, don't let him in. Don't let him in. But I think having a complete break from him where like he would just stopped being at all a consideration for a week, but also having had the power to remove him was really critical for me.

4 (41m 5s):
I told Mike what Stella said, how their conversation and therapy was a breaking point for her just before her suicide attempt. He said he had no idea. He didn't remember apologizing for the wrong thing for saying he was sorry. He didn't get her more invested in climate work.

7 (41m 21s):
I wish I could remember saying it. It sounds like the kind of stuff that would have come out of my mouth and what a shitty thing when she needed something else. After that,

4 (41m 34s):
Mike stop trying to contact Stella. She didn't want them to. And the therapist said it could be dangerous for Stella. So we laid low hoping the kids were okay and waiting for an invite to return to the family. Stella says that with the burden of fixing her relationship with her dad lifted, she started doing a lot better freed from climate work. She had time to do things that she actually liked, like reading fantasy novels. She also got a great therapist and started taking antidepressants, which she said have really helped. And so was Stella feeling sturdier. It seemed like Mike and the kids might possibly find a way to rebuild a relationship of some kind, however, fractured until this next thing happened, which brought about the end of their world.

4 (42m 20s):
As they knew it, it was the fall of 2016, a little over a year after Stella suicide attempt. And she reached out to ask for a meeting with her dad and Mrs. And the therapist in the meeting, Stellan Emeris told their dad that for them to consider having a relationship again, they needed him to stop doing climate work for awhile, her Stella. He said

9 (42m 42s):
It would. And that it paid me really happy. It felt like change.

4 (42m 51s):
And Morris was struck to

9 (42m 52s):
Maybe if he could get rid of that, then he really does care about us. Like he must really love us. If he's willing to give that up

4 (42m 60s):
A few weeks. After that, after Mike told his kids, he would stop doing climate activism. He did his most extreme climate action ever

12 (43m 8s):
Protestors manually turned off five oil pipelines today. One of the five protesters can be seen here, turning off the pipeline valve in North Dakota.

4 (43m 18s):
My travel to North Dakota broke past the fence around the Keystone pipeline and turned the valve shutting off the flow of oil. He was arrested onsite. And at that point charged with six felonies to misdemeanors, which combined could land him in prison for more than 90 years,

9 (43m 36s):
I was mad. I was so mad.

4 (43m 40s):
Here's Emeris again, man, I was

9 (43m 41s):
Pissed. I, I mean, that was the point where, you know, he's, he's saying he would stop doing all this for us. And it's like, oh, he's going to prison

4 (43m 55s):
Here, Stella.

9 (43m 56s):
That moment really just was it for me. I just didn't care anymore. It felt like relief because there was no small voice in my head saying, but he's your dad. You've got to love him. I was complete and whole, and didn't need him. And didn't want him

4 (44m 23s):
A bunch of the charges were either dismissed or amended. But Mike ended up spending six months in prison. He told me he didn't realize kids were asking them to stop climate activism. Right. Then he thought they meant someday. He said he had no idea. This was the last straw for them. The valve turning propelled Mike to fame in a new way, especially in their little green Seattle community. Linda says,

6 (44m 48s):
Then the story was, he's a hero. Look what he's done. He's a hero. He's a hero. And there was an article in the local Seattle magazine, which painted him as this martyr. And he talked about how he sacrificed his relationship with his children for the planet. And they tried to say that, you know, yeah, we didn't, we couldn't fly anymore. And the marriage broke apart and he had a quote saying something like, you know, basically I just annoyed the fuck out of them. I was like, that is so it is such a simple viewpoint.

6 (45m 32s):
You didn't annoy the fuck out of us. You were as annoying as fuck, but you actually wounded us. You harmed us. You hurt us.

4 (45m 48s):
After the Seattle magazine article came out, climate people would come up to Melinda and the kids and tell them they should really talk to Mike again. They should forgive him because he's doing such important work. But Amaris doesn't see his work that way.

9 (46m 4s):
I think it's made it so that his name means something. But to very few people, it's a subset of people who are already inclined to that stuff, but He hasn't achieved anything. I mean, with his climate stuff, like I said, that valve turning had no effect. The oil got there a couple hours later, he's made a series of empty gestures and spent years posturing as a hero and a family man and has just destroyed everything.

9 (46m 47s):
I think that was actually meaningful about his life. And I think on some level he knows that. And that's part of why he's so distressed about having lost his family. I don't know. I guess I wish him well, but he can find meaning that isn't family at this point, because we're, we're done with him.

4 (47m 14s):
It's been nearly six years since Mike and Melinda got divorced. There's been essentially no contact between Mike and the kids. Since the valve turning. The first time I talked to Mike, our interview lasted nine hours. Mostly because almost every question I asked about his family, he ended up veering into climate change, how bad things were, how no one was doing enough. How so many endemic species face extinction. This century of fact, he told me four times in our interview. He also lated between extreme sadness over his non-existent relationship with his kids, to anger about the state of the world, to agitated concern that I hadn't asked him any of the right questions yet, because I hadn't asked him about the science, but what it was going to take to change things.

4 (48m 0s):
The morning after our interview, I woke up to an email from Mike and he asked for a do-over. He said, he'd accidentally gone into climate rant mode. Instead of speaking as a dad, he said, quote, I can't live with what I said, I can't my rambling, some monstrous and idiotic. We tried again. He told me he didn't agree with his family, that the problem was his personality and the way he handled his activism, he thought there were things he could have done better. But the real problem was that he and Melinda weren't on the same page. I told him, I didn't think having two parents like him would have solved things with the kids. He didn't see it and didn't understand why his family couldn't have brought up how they were feeling with him.

4 (48m 44s):
Like

7 (48m 45s):
It's still news to me that they're afraid to talk to me about this stuff. I understand. We've, you've kind of told me that there were these moments when I got angry and I was really, really scary to them and a big person and little kids totally get that and take responsibility for that. And yet the apologies, the talks, the hugs, the bedtimes, the whatever, the living life that happened in between these, whatever months of not being angry, I guess I was, I was under the illusion that they could talk to me about anything.

4 (49m 34s):
It sounds like you didn't at the time realize how your behavior was impacting them. But there are like a few interactions that seem like even at the time you would have understood the impact. Like Amaris mentioned that you had called Stella a fucking bitch and a cunt when she was really little like 10. Yeah. Which that feels like you would under,

7 (49m 56s):
That was horrible. That was a nightmare.

4 (49m 59s):
I could see how it'd be hard after that. After your dad calls you a con to ever say anything to him to make them angry again.

7 (50m 6s):
Yes, absolutely. Absolutely. And I did anything and everything I could afterwards to make it right. But come on. You're right. That was a thing that you can't take back. Yeah. So I live that I'm broken. I don't know why I'm here. The thing I love the most is the thing I'm farthest from.

4 (50m 46s):
Thanks for Melinda. And the kids are pretty good. These days sella just turned 18. She says their climate nightmares only come every couple of weeks instead of nightly. And she's off at college. This fall a milestone that for awhile, she never thought she'd reach. Emeris is 19. They work on a boat, teaching kids about Marine life and maritime skills, a job they love though. They skip out on teaching the lessons about climate change. They said, they're not ready to do that yet. While I was out in Seattle doing my interviews this summer, the Pacific Northwest was in the midst of the most extreme heat wave in the regions, recorded history, cable lines, melted roads cracked in the heat.

4 (51m 28s):
Over a hundred people died. Stella told me that during the heat wave, she had to sit in her room and repeat to herself. Things are bad and there's nothing you can do about it until the feeling passed. Emma says in low moments, their dad's voice pops into their head and tells them they haven't done anything with their life. That all they do is turn oxygen into carbon. Melinda. And I did our interview in her office. The only place we could find central AC it was 106 degrees outside. She told me the irony isn't lost on her. Mike was right about the climate. She said the hair stand up on the back of her neck. When she thinks about it, Melinda and the kids, they tried to block it out, but that's getting harder and harder.

1 (52m 24s):
Have you heard of Cornfeld? She's a producer on our show. Just to note, if you or somebody, you know, might need help. The national suicide prevention lifeline is available 24 7 at 1 802 7 3. Talk again, that's 1 802 7 3 8 2 5 5 Out of the crying pan and into the fire.

1 (53m 7s):
So there are all sorts of ways your world can end. And sometimes you want it to end. You need it to end because that's the only way you can get to a new beginning. Couple of weeks ago, I watched 15,000 people who wanted exactly that.

13 (53m 19s):
Yeah. So we're standing in Fort Marcy park and Santa Fe, New Mexico under a 50 foot puppet.

1 (53m 28s):
My guide for this is Alexi Horowitz, Kasi who grew up here in Santa Fe. He's also one of the hosts of NPRs planet money podcast. Technically speaking, the puppet is a marionette, a ginormous one, five stories tall with a green ghoulish head on a hill towering over a baseball field and public park. These names is zebra.

13 (53m 49s):
It's kind of the scapegoat of Santa Fe, New Mexico. Everybody puts their write down all of their anguish and sadness and misfortune that they've experienced in the last year. And they fill his whole body up. Then, then at the end of the night, he's going to be lit on fire and supposedly purge all of our,

1 (54m 7s):
I like to I've been coming since grade school when his class would visit during the day and watch them hoisted over into the air. And the sadness is that he would write down to be burned. We're about unrequited crushes and not getting the part in the student production of grease. He shows me the ditch in the back of the park, this Royal that his friends in high school would run through if they were sneaking in a bottle of tequila or something, wanting to avoid security.

13 (54m 29s):
Yeah. And I mean like, yeah, kids do drugs, kids get drunk. But like also the crowd turns really angry and it's actually kind of like a scare. It can be really scary out here as much as it's like a thing where people are releasing, whatever has been making them sad throughout the year. It's also like everyone directs their rage that they normally are kind of hiding towards this puppet figure up on the hill and people are screaming to burn him and they're screaming expletives. And it just like a side of people you don't see usually. And you'll see everybody here. It's like Santa Fe is a small town. And so I've, you know, seeing teachers from, from high school or from elementary school as far gone as any of us drunk,

1 (55m 12s):
Drunk. But if I say says, you see everybody here just to put that in perspective, Santa Fe's population is around 80,000, 60,000 people usually come to zebra though this year because of COVID. They have limited attendance to a fourth of that. It's tons of families, maybe half Latino. The sadness is that people write down to be burned or officially called glooms and the collected in boxes in town before the event. And at the event,

14 (55m 39s):
We got plenty of paper, plenty of pens and plenty of boxes. You got to loom. We have the receptacle. That's not that doesn't work because

1 (55m 48s):
You're going to have to make a rhyme. You've got the Glen, we've got the room.

14 (55m 53s):
There you go. You want it? You want to,

1 (55m 57s):
As I'm sure you know, it has been a buffer a year for Glen. Lots of people wrote notes about COVID and loved ones they lost, but also that other big glooms climate Afghanistan, Alexi has got some family in Cabo that he's worried about. And he put that into his note for SoBro, along with some other people. They want it to remember people write down all kinds of personal stuff.

15 (56m 19s):
Like right now, my dad's in a psych hospital this week and I like, I'm actually, well, I'm picking him up tomorrow, but I wrote in something for him.

16 (56m 27s):
So I just put that, I know this is a little personal story, but I've put my ex left me. My uncle dad passed away. And then my friends were ghosting me. And then I just said, 2021 has to got to go

1 (56m 39s):
At the Bloomberg's tables. I saw an eight year old boy, Julian, who carefully wrote in a slip of paper. I miss mom. I miss the house. His dad Joaquin explained

17 (56m 50s):
Basically what happened was because of COVID and everything losing my job. I wasn't able to make the payments on the house and I ended up losing it. So that's about it. Yeah. Yeah.

1 (57m 3s):
Julian's mom moved to Colorado in the past. People were brought legal papers from disastrous lawsuits to go into zebra for burning this year. K Arnold's medical diagnosis made it in a pile. Kay was diagnosed with stage four breast cancer in may. She was in Texas and drove in with her daughter to watch it burn

18 (57m 22s):
Breast cancer is not at this time curable. So, you know, I'm responding. Well, I'm being treated, but what else are you going to do with the cancer diagnosis? Right? Stick it in a big giant zombie. Set it on fire. What

1 (57m 36s):
Do you think it's going to be like to see a bird?

18 (57m 38s):
I think it's going to be in bigger writing. I bought I'm already on the verge of tears. Yeah.

1 (57m 44s):
It's to burn something in an effigy.

18 (57m 48s):
I just think it helps you to feel like it's gone. I don't know. Just that's that's a good question. It feels like you're doing something especially about something that maybe you can't do anything about. You know, I don't know. Feels like, yeah. I mean, when you can't do anything, why not set it on

1 (58m 5s):
Should already have done everything reasonable for her illness, doctors, medicines, time to try something unreasonable. Katarina Valdez brought her wedding dress to be burned. The organizers actually sent her a photo of the dress hanging insides, the zebra that she showed me on her phone.

19 (58m 22s):
So that's the back of a Jew of the Oprah. And then my dress is right there at the bottom with the envelope that I put, I put a letter from myself just saying goodbye to my past, that time in my life. It's changing.

1 (58m 35s):
It's just hanging there, like on a hanger.

19 (58m 36s):
Yeah. It's on the hanger. It was really literally as on a plastic hanger hanging in super,

1 (58m 42s):
Also in that envelope. Some photos that she never wants to see again, and a promise ring given to us, forgiveness Katharina says presenting. She never should have forgiven. She was married for seven years. What's it like to see that there

19 (58m 57s):
It's really exciting. I'm sick of singing in my mom's closet and I've been divorced for three years and I want to move on. I have three beautiful children that are finally in a really healthy and safe environment with us. And they're, you know, thriving at school. I have a beautiful, amazing new partner. He's going to start giggling. We've been dating for seven months. Sorry. It's just like, it's the perfect time to do this.

1 (59m 24s):
Did you ever have to bring the kids with her to see the dress burn? But she said that what their dad actually acts as OBR somewhere right then.

19 (59m 33s):
And he, I don't, I don't know if he knows now. I didn't tell him, but I'm sure my kids did.

1 (59m 38s):
I just want to get out on the field. So somewhere on this field is your ex-husband with your three kids who have definitely told him that your wedding dresses in there, she said a bit upset. She's sorry, but you needed to turn the dress into ashes. The sunsets grad stood Janning for the big moment I watched the burn with Katrina and her boyfriend.

19 (1h 0m 7s):
I am a lot more nervous than I thought I was going to be

1 (1h 0m 11s):
Costume dancers, set up fires and align across the stage and taunts zebra who moans and waves his arms and protest a dancer in red county torches sets them on fire. Skyrockets shoot off orange light starts to flicker it. Insides is over his body.

19 (1h 0m 33s):
Oh my gosh, just go.

1 (1h 0m 37s):
Does Oprah stress basically makes up the bottom half of his body? And of course inside his dress, let's catch Irina's dress. Now there's fire inside the dress.

19 (1h 0m 51s):
And that's where my dress was.

1 (1h 0m 54s):
Uber. Flails his arms just a little while longer when it's done To the ground.

19 (1h 1m 3s):
Yeah. Our blooms are gone and that's it. Blooms are gone and we move on.

1 (1h 1m 13s):
You feel good? Yeah.

19 (1h 1m 15s):
Yeah. I feel amazing.

1 (1h 1m 17s):
And you feel different than you did

19 (1h 1m 19s):
Earlier. Yeah. Yeah. This is what I hoped for. Fair work. It worked. So I'm excited to see what the morning brings

1 (1h 1m 30s):
Everyone Alexia. And I talked to afterwards said they felt different that nobody could explain exactly why. If you said it's just primal throwing something into the fire at vanquish yet even K the woman from Texas who burned her medical records coming, she knows her diagnosis. She knows she's going back to the doctors and the medicines that even she felt more hopeful, like a fresh start. When people started to clear out of the park, a handful gathered round the smoking embers of zebra to roast marshmallows on the flames of their unhappy year, welcoming the new one with burnt sugary sweetness.

3 (1h 2m 9s):
<inaudible> with me.

3 (1h 2m 36s):
<inaudible>

1 (1h 2m 56s):
That's what today's program was produced by Miki meek, and it be able to Cornfeld people who put together today's show include them at a woman named Sean Cole, Damien grave, Seth Wayne, Mary Marge blocker, Stowe Nelson, Catherine Raymondo, Alyssa Shipt, Jessica Soriano, Christopher Tala, Matt Tierney, Julie Whitaker, and Chloe Weiner, our managing editor this week, Diane Wu senior editor, David Kestenbaum, executive editor, Emmanuel Barry special. Thanks today to Rebecca Huntley, who you heard in the opening of our program. One of the things that she did after her wake-up moment is write a book it's called how to talk about climate in a way that makes a difference, which is where we first heard of her. Also, thanks to David wean. Casey sooth, her Kristy Druckman Juliet, Leo Beth hose, Fred Eris, man, Lisa <inaudible>, Deseret Lira, and Julia Goldberg, who was Manning the gloom boxes.

1 (1h 3m 37s):
It's a zebra, our website, this American life.org. This American life is delivered to public radio stations by PRX, the public radio exchange. Thanks as always to our programs. Co-founder Mr. Troy <inaudible>. He was making fun of me this week because he found out that I am really into skateboards though. I have to say not the entire skateboard. Okay. I don't care about the deck or the wheels.

5 (1h 3m 59s):
You're super passionate about trucks. Like I just didn't know. You're like, so into trucks, like, was this always the thing? I think it's really great.

1 (1h 4m 5s):
I'm IRA glass back next week with more stories of this American life. Next week on the podcast of this American life. Hello, a man makes a request that goes against company policy and human nature.

20 (1h 4m 44s):
You know the music you have the holding music. When you put me on hold, it plays it. Could you do that for me

1 (1h 4m 49s):
For a minute? Loving the music on hold. No kidding. And other stories of being stuck next week on the podcast or on your local public radio station.