0 (0s):
Support for this American life comes from Disney plus with national geographics, the world, according to Jeff Goldbloom join Jeff Jeffer, another unexpected and surprising journey. As he discovers extraordinary. Why's behind seemingly ordinary things like magic monsters and our love of dogs. National geographics the world. According to Jeff, Goldbloom now streaming only on Disney plus a quick warning. There are curse words that are under beeped in today's episode of the show. If you prefer a beeped version, you can find that at our website, this American life.org

1 (34s):
From WB easy Chicago, it's this American life I'm on the baker sitting in for IRA. Glass kids have a stage where they learn to be embarrassed. It begins when they're toddlers, but some of us don't seem to take the lesson to heart. Like my friend, Jane Marie, I've known Jane for years. She used to work at the radio show and her shamelessness was the quality I most admired about her. Especially as a woman, you know, she didn't care what people thought. Am I acting nice? Am I dressed too sexy? Am I being loud? She didn't ask those questions. She was totally opinionated and scrappy. Jane was never embarrassed. And for a pretty specific reason, the way she grew up, she was Methodist.

1 (1m 15s):
She was taught. You are not the center of the universe, which made her feel free. Like no one was watching.

2 (1m 23s):
It would be embarrassed to be would, would be to assume that anyone in this room or anyone who witnessed this actually spends more than five seconds thinking about me. And they don't. Why would you think anyone? But God gives a shit about anything you're doing. However, they don't like you are nothing. You mean nothing in the world. It's a noxious basically to think that like any of your actions that anyone actually looking in your direction,

1 (1m 54s):
This worldview, that others weren't judging her, helped her not judge herself. Those thoughts just didn't occur to her. Did you have an inner critic?

2 (2m 5s):
What do you mean by inner critic?

1 (2m 7s):
Like a

2 (2m 8s):
Voice. Sorry. I'm like come again.

1 (2m 16s):
So I was surprised when she texted me and said, she'd heard I was looking for embarrassing stories to put on today's radio show and that she had won a big one that she'd never told anyone, but her therapist, something that changed who she was. And I'll get to that story in about a minute. But first let me just say, I love embarrassing stories. I always asked for them at parties. If I hear a good one, I'll retell it for years. Some of them so funny, but that's not the only reason I liked them. I think the best ones say so much about us reveal sides of ourselves. Maybe we'd rather not see and to prove the point that embarrassing stories have a lot to teach us. I decided to harness the power of the radio program.

1 (2m 58s):
And we asked you for your embarrassing stories. People send in over a thousand of them today. We'll hear some of those and talk about what they reveal, but we're going to kick things off with Jane's story because honestly of the hundreds of embarrassing stories that I've heard, I've never heard another one. Like Jane's where it changed someone. So deeply. Her story is our first act. Let's call it bell of the gall Jane's story starts at a big charity event at a bougie hotel in Beverly Hills. The night is a fundraiser for children with epilepsy. It's held in a grand ballroom with fine China and excessive centerpieces and some of the most powerful producers and executives in Hollywood.

1 (3m 41s):
This is not Jane scene. She's there because she's interviewing for a job, a job with a big studio, a job that would be a major leap for her and pay a ton more money than she'd ever made. They'd met with her several times for interviews and they'd invited her tonight and paid for a ticket as a kind of, you know, fun looser. Let's go do something more social and see how we all hit it off. Knowing where it's held and knowing it's a gala. Jane wears a ball gown, a two-piece dark green dress that shows off her mid drift with a giant billowy skirt. She walks into the event and to her surprise,

2 (4m 15s):
People were wearing like business casual instead of like it wasn't black tie. And so I'm overdressed. They're passing around champagne flutes. I grabbed one, but promised myself, I'm only going to have half of this one glass of champagne before we sit down at the table. Like I am going into this with full control of myself. Like I am,

1 (4m 34s):
You're there to make a good impression.

2 (4m 35s):
I am there to make a great impression on these people. I want to work with them and I want them to think I'm respectable. And it's a weird thing. Like I hate them. I still have to talk about the world this way. But like when you're the only woman at the table or one of two women at a table, and they're all like old, older, white dudes, CEO types who have in a certain way, have your future in their hands. It doesn't feel great.

1 (5m 2s):
In the ballroom of maybe 500 guests, they're seated at the main table front and center during dinner. Jane's looking for opportunity to shine a moment when they'll get to know her better, but it's not coming. The CEO guys are all talking over her. There's no moment to jump into the conversation. No one seems curious about her at all.

2 (5m 22s):
So there they get to the auction portion or the fundraiser portion of the evening. And there's a, you know, a person up on stage. Who's like calling the, the auction and they say, all right, let's get things kicked off here.

1 (5m 36s):
Jane has an idea. One time, the only other time she's been to a gala, they'd had an auction too. And to surprise her table as a joke, when they started the bidding before any of the celebrities that night lady Gaga or Angela Bassett or Heidi Clume could get in a bid. Jane raised her paddle. It was for an item that was of thousands of dollars. Jane was broke. Her friends at the table knew she couldn't afford it, but she figured I'm surrounded by rich people. Someone will absolutely outbid me. And they did the item went for hundreds of thousands of dollars. Everyone thought it was hilarious. So she looked at this table of CEO's and thinks

2 (6m 19s):
I know how to spice up the evening, cause I've done it before. I'm going to throw my paddle up again. I'm going to throw my paddle up again, get things, crank and have a funny story for our table to laugh about. And so they opened the bidding. And what I hear is we're going to start the bidding out at $25,000. And I shoot my paddle up in the air with the same confidence that like, it'll get outbid immediately and then we're moving on and then we're cooking with gas and everybody's like, you're a blast. You know?

1 (6m 55s):
Ah, ha that was fun. She waits to be outbid.

2 (6m 59s):
And I had somehow not heard that this round of bidding was really just, it wasn't something that anyone else could bid on.

1 (7m 12s):
It was not an auction at all. It was a pledge.

2 (7m 15s):
So it was a $25,000 pledge from the eight people sitting at my table. It all happened like really quickly. Like after I raised the paddle, they were like, yay. And they put the name of our table and everyone at our table, like up on this board, like there was a TV screen, a large TV screen hanging from the ceiling and the name of the company I was with and our table number and the amount of my pledge. And I look over and the one person I know best at the table, it looks like he's having a hives, like an attack.

2 (7m 56s):
Everyone else is just slack jawed. Oh my God, Jane, what did you just do? What did you just do? What did you just do? And I'm like mouthing this or even just saying it out loud, depending on how close they are. To me, they all just stared at me and were like, how are you going to fix this for our table?

1 (8m 19s):
Sometimes when something embarrassing happens to you, you exaggerated in your head. Think it's a bigger deal than it was. But in this case, no,

3 (8m 28s):
I wish I could take this away from Jane and tell her her memory's wrong. Her memory's not wrong. Cause I'm here to tell you. Yes, it was that bad. It really was. It was that bad. You're not making that up.

1 (8m 41s):
That's Adam Davidson. Jane's only friend at the table. He's the guy who broke out in time

2 (8m 47s):
As I'm remembering it. It was just that feeling of <inaudible> the universe is different. Now the universe is fix it, fix it. We're off course. And you know, like that emergency.

1 (8m 60s):
So the part of the panic is like, if, if I don't stop this, I'm going to have to pay $25,000.

2 (9m 5s):
Yeah. Cause I thought I would. What if, what if there's no way out of this? And I have to like max out all my credit cards. No, I really was like, can you, okay. Cause I don't have auction experience also. I'm like, can you take it back?

1 (9m 22s):
She decides to try at the other end of this giant ballroom, there's an exit. Jane thinks there will be people in charge there. They can help me. So she bolts up out of her chair and heads there fastest. She can through,

2 (9m 35s):
You know, dozens of tables, full of people. I mean, I really was having to be like, excuse me, pardon me? Pardon me? Excuse me. Excuse me. Pardon me? Pardon me? Excuse me. Like I gotta get outta here. So I get through the double doors at the back of the room as quickly as I can. And it slams shut behind me.

1 (9m 52s):
Who's running the auction. She yells a volunteer points are to a woman with a laptop, Jane rushes over and explains it's all a mistake. I don't have money. The woman is surprisingly understanding. She says, what would you like to do?

2 (10m 6s):
Oh, you want me to do? I was like, well, I just need to, like, I take it back. Like I can't spend that money. And she was like, okay. And then briefly blurb she's in her computer and what I, and I said, thank you. Okay. And then I walked back in to the ballroom and I'm looking up at that, the leaderboard essentially of all the pledges and we're at the top. And then it disappeared, like right as I walked back in the room, it felt like a spotlight was turned on.

1 (10m 34s):
Like the whole room turned around, record

2 (10m 37s):
Scratch. And everyone knows that I just took $25,000 away from this charity.

1 (10m 44s):
But of course it wasn't Jane's name. That was on the screen. It was the, company's the one she's hoping to work for.

3 (10m 50s):
So very quickly it wasn't oh, Jane did this. It was our table. Did this

1 (10m 55s):
Again. Jane's friend Adam. And it

3 (10m 57s):
Wasn't like we went from first to second or first to third, we went from number one to like the bottom. So yeah, I was embarrassed. I think everyone at the table was embarrassed. Yes, we were embarrassed. Like wouldn't you be in bed?

2 (11m 15s):
And so I get back to the table and I sit down and have kind of like a wasn't that, you know, like a nervous laugh, no one is enjoying that. And so I just start focusing on anything, but the people around my table, I'm just really intently listening to the auctioneer guy. And, and, and, and we have to watch this really sad video. That's like a mini documentary about the children that were supposed to be there to help. And they dim the lights.

1 (11m 52s):
The movie is about 15 minutes long. The music is emotional it's parents and their children with epilepsy talking about how scared and sad they feel, how much they need treatment sitting there in the dark watching this. This is the moment that hits Jane the hardest. It's not when everyone looks at her, it's when she realizes what she's actually done. She'd only thought of this evening as an opportunity for her to make an impression

2 (12m 18s):
It was gross. What I did, it was gross and wrong. And watching these children with this illness on a big screen, I was just like, I am the worst person on the earth that I bid. And then I took it back. And then I said, no, there's like a part of me that was like, oh, could I just like take out a few more credit cards or something? And then it's like a tidal wave of what just happened and what I did and how mortifying it is. Just the layers of like the reasons I should be embarrassed and criticizing myself. You know, why would you even do that?

2 (12m 58s):
Like, why would you do that? And then when you did do it, why would you try to get out of it?

1 (13m 4s):
The answers to those questions are uncomfortable because they forced Jane to see things about herself. She doesn't like embarrassment can do that. It can show you your blind spot.

2 (13m 14s):
It exposed a fatal flaw that I have to pay a lot of attention to now. And

1 (13m 25s):
What is that fatal flaw

2 (13m 28s):
Hubris. Something about that made me feel like my confidence, like had bad consequences. You know, that there was something bad about it.

1 (13m 40s):
The night ends, she doesn't get the job and she has it on pretty good authority that the decision boiled down to her big mistake that night, this stings, but that's not the crux of what that night did to her.

2 (13m 53s):
It has actually changed a lot about how I act in public. Like I'm just much more self-conscious after that really. Like I used to get super pumped about going to a party. And now that's kind of fraught. I know this is going to sound counterintuitive, but like I've started leaving the house sometimes without makeup, because it's like, I don't want people thinking that I'm thinking about what they're thinking. If that makes sense. I don't want anyone to think I put makeup on for them, but this is like the weirdest stuff that now pops into my head about like what other people are thinking where I'd wish I didn't care.

1 (14m 35s):
I've always been that way. Worrying what other people are thinking about me. And I can't imagine what it would be like to discover this as a full on adult. Jane says, everything feels different turn. Now

2 (14m 46s):
I feel completely neutered. A lot of the time, really? You know? Yeah, I do. I feel like it made me second. Guess myself a lot. I guess I, I used to write essays about parenting and sex and you know, I would give advice and I would go on radio shows and now I'm just like, shut up, Jane, shut up, Jane, shut up, Jane, shut up. Jane, shut up. No one is asking and no one wants to hear it.

1 (15m 20s):
That's crazy to me that you can do something embarrassing once and suddenly you have that inner policemen for the rest of your life. Is there anything that can make it go away? You think?

2 (15m 34s):
I don't know what could change it. I don't know. I just don't even have the desire. Like it doesn't it's like, why would I want to change it so that I could like put another ball gown on and go embarrass myself in front of a bunch of people? Like, no, that doesn't sound fun. You know, it doesn't sound fun anymore. Like, I don't think that the lesson I learned was necessarily all bad. And honestly, when I think about the old version of me, it was kind of gross in a way, you know, like that's just, it's kind of a noxious. It's like a, that's a baby.

1 (16m 18s):
I honestly never thought of embarrassment as being helpful to anyone. It pummels us humiliates us, but Jane's glad this happened to her. She's glad for her new awful self-consciousness she says her ego is smaller now, which means that with everyone in her life, she's quicker to admit when she's wrong and apologize. And overall, she says it's calmed her down. She observes more hangs back. Never wants to be the center of attention, which she says is a lot less hectic.

1 (16m 59s):
Jane Murray is the host of the podcast. The dream Act to judgment day. Part of the reason I'm interested in embarrassment is because of this realization I had recently. I'm so embarrassed of myself all the time. At least once a day, I break out into a rash from embarrassment, like a couple of days ago. When I learned from a coworker that all my life I've been mispronouncing the word incongruous. See, I get embarrassed. When I think people are looking at my eyebrows or when other people see my dog poop, embarrassment is on me all the time and I want to get it off.

1 (17m 42s):
And one of the ways my obsession with embarrassment has played out in the last few months is I'm in a group chat dedicated to it. There are four of us in it. One of the people KSA, layman. I only met when we started this group, anytime we feel embarrassed or do something embarrassing, we write to each other. It's how I know we've both worn Spanx for decades or that he's self-conscious of his hairline or how he walks these little secrets. You'd never know about someone. Otherwise, sometimes we swap stories of past embarrassments. Like the time KSA was teaching a class at Vassar college on hip hop as literature and the alumni magazine wanted to do a story on him. This was back when he was in his twenties, they did the interview and then a photographer comes to take his picture.

5 (18m 27s):
So we're in a library and I'm like, where do you need me to stand? And they're like, well, could you crouch? No, sorry. I ain't never crouched before the photographs before. And they were like, you know, crouching, like do something cool with your hands. And I would say, what do you, what do you want me to do? And then the lady says, could you do wrap hands? And I'm just like, wait a minute. Now you want me to do wrap hands in a picture. That's going to accompany an article about my teaching hip hop as literature and hip hop and literature.

5 (19m 13s):
And you know, my stupid ass did that shit like I'm doing rap has fab. Like I care a lot to you. So then the fucking article comes out. And my students, particularly my black students are like, bro, you teach about representation, stereo tapes, fetishization. There's nothing ironic about this picture. You look like a fucking fool. Want to be rapper slash professor doing crouch wrap hands.

1 (19m 43s):
I know so many of KSA day-to-day screw ups from our embarrassment group, but it's funny. I never asked him an obvious question. All right. So I guess I think, you know, I'm coming into this totally blind. So I don't know what you're about to tell me. What's your most embarrassing story.

5 (20m 6s):
My most embarrassing story has to do with heavy. So I wrote this book called heavy. I've been spending my entire life trying to write it and I needed to write it to help my relationship with my mother, my relationship with my body, but also, you know, it's a book that I wanted my grandma to really be proud of

1 (20m 34s):
The New York times. Name's heavy. One of the best 50 memoirs in the last 50 years, a lot of the book is about KSA shame around his weight. He went from being 319 pounds to anorexic, getting down to 150, then gaining it back then losing some by exposing everything about his struggle with his weight, he overcomes it near the end of the book. He writes, I am no longer ashamed of this heavy black body, something else. He talks about how important his grandma is to him. She's funny, the voice of reason in his life. And she's one of the only people who's never on his case about his weight in heavy. He writes about his grandmother.

1 (21m 15s):
She responsibly loved me and never harm me. He's disappointed her many times got kicked out of college, lost all his money to gambling, but writing this book was a way to prove to her. He's not his failures and it's his attempt to fully explain himself.

5 (21m 31s):
Yeah. By the time it comes out, I think I won a lot of awards and that I did not expect to win. And with every award, I just was like, yo, my granny is going to be proud of me.

1 (21m 45s):
Two months after the book is published, he flies home to Jackson, Mississippi for Christmas. It's the first chance he gets to celebrate the book success with his whole family. And he brings a stack of books. Each of which he signed with the dedication to each family member. He runs into the living room with a big smile on his face. Everyone's there. He had straight to his grandma and gives her a big hug.

5 (22m 6s):
She looks up at me and then she looks over to my mama and she says, is this key? And then she's like, yeah, mama, that's key. And I said, grandma, how you put you asking me for? And she just straight up sick. Cause you're so fat baby. He looked way too fat to be key. And she sat in, in front of my family. She sat in front of my little cousin, Nicole and I just started sweating. And I was like, what the fuck? Where the fuck am I having a panic attack right now?

5 (22m 46s):
And at the time I didn't understand why. Like, I didn't think I was having a panic attack because of embarrassment or shame at my grandmother calling me fat.

1 (22m 56s):
It was some combination of humiliation, shame and embarrassment, shame and embarrassment often get lumped together. But what makes embarrassment distinct is it's always tied to other people. You need an audience to be embarrassed.

5 (23m 10s):
Like I can be ashamed in my house by my soul. You know what I'm saying? Like, like I can be in shame, like a boiling pot of shame and embarrassment to me is much more like dramatic, right? Like I feel like when you ask me stories about embarrassment, they're all going to be stories about like, like how somebody saw me, because if my grandpa came in my house and there was nobody there, but my, my granny, she did that. It would hurt. I mean, it would, it would hurt, but it would not come close to that hurt of having her say it in front of the entire family and the family doing their version of looking down, you know, we're going to act like we didn't hear that when everybody heard it.

5 (24m 15s):
So I just walked right back out of the house. We have gotten my car for a second, try to get my breath. Right. And I had some Xanax because I was on book tour early and I use annex to sleep on the planes. So I was like, yo, should I take a half a Xanax? Like what the fuck is going on me? I didn't know what was, what was happening. So I did and I took the Xanax one or the Xanax. And I went back in the house, tried to do it again, went back to my granny, walked in the room, granny, Hey, blah, blah, blah, blah ki. Well, I don't know how you got so fat, but you need to stop eating.

5 (24m 57s):
And, and, and I think the shameful part was like, I could write all the books in the world I wanted to, I could write one of those books as good as I could ever write them, but I was still gonna look and feel not just fat, but gross to my family.

1 (25m 18s):
Did you also feel like you had in writing a book and working as hard as you possibly could to look at this stuff that you had overcome the capacity to feel so ashamed of yourself?

5 (25m 32s):
Yes. I thought in writing about, among other things like body and sex, fatness and sex, I, I, I did. I fooled myself into believing that I was delivered from it. And I think when I came in the room, thinking that heavy with shield me from their critiques and being greeted initially, you know, and then my grandmother calling me fat, looking at me like I'm fat, not seeing anything but a fad. As you know, middle-aged man, when she looks at me is, is kryptonite, is my kryptonite.

1 (26m 23s):
She'd always been the one person who never judged him. And when he tries to make sense of this turnaround, the best he can come up with is with the success of the book and the money it brought in. She now saw him as a man and in her eyes, men were supposed to be productive and lean. He spends the next few days with his grandma and she keeps bringing it up. It looks like key eight key he's as big as the house. How did he get so fat?

5 (26m 49s):
And I just think that was embarrassing to think that a book was going to change your life and make you not look and feel fat to your family and to the person who means the most in the world of you and it, and it is a book didn't matter at all.

1 (27m 2s):
It's crushing.

5 (27m 7s):
Oh, it's so funny. I have to laugh my way through all of that, but yeah, it felt pretty crushing.

1 (27m 14s):
This isn't something he tells people in everyday conversation. Honestly, when I asked him for his most embarrassing story, I expected the kind of funny story you tell at a party. That's usually what he delivers. When people start telling these kinds of stories, something more like wrap hands,

5 (27m 30s):
That embarrassment and the embarrassment I felt in my granny's house in some way, I don't even know if they should be called the same word, because I literally, like, I like telling that story. I've never told the story I told you about my granny, because I don't like remembering that I don't like telling it, you know what I'm saying? So,

1 (27m 52s):
I mean, cause there's certain things that you can, you can laugh at. You can't laugh at the thing that makes you want to die.

5 (28m 1s):
Yeah. I mean the embarrassing stories that I tell are always not true. Like, like the drama of the story will be true, but I'm going to hide that mushy sometimes toxic center that thinks telling embarrassing stories will make people like me more. You know what I mean? So when I'm telling embarrassing stories, a part of the story I'm not telling is I'm going to tell y'all this story because I feel very fucking insecure and I want to make you feel or laugh. So if I'm not telling that part of the story, I'm being dishonest in the storytelling and most of us aren't telling that part of the story.

5 (28m 44s):
When we tell like these self deprecating stories about whatever, I'm only telling you this story, because I want to control the velocity and pace at which you like me. That's what I think those stories lack. They lack the, the, the, the preamble.

1 (29m 5s):
They lack the sad history that makes you need to tell a funny story in the first place he says. And maybe that makes sense. Who wants to bring that up at a party? PSA. Layman is the author of heavy and long division Coming up a date that ends in nudity, but absolutely not the kind that you might want. That's an a minute from Chicago public radio. When our program continues

0 (29m 42s):
Support for this American life comes from capital one with early paycheck, you can get your direct deposit up to two days earlier and with no fees or minimums on checking and savings accounts banking with capital. One is like the easiest decision terms apply. See capital one.com/bank capital one, and a member FDI see support for this American life comes from LinkedIn as the year wines to a close, a new work-life normal is emerging here to help break it all down is LinkedIn's Jessi Hempel and her podcast. Hello Monday, hello. Monday is for listeners who are looking to grow their professional lives and take ownership over their careers. Join Jessie. As she talks to luminaries, legends, and listeners about their career journeys and takeaways that you can apply to your own career.

0 (30m 27s):
Listen and subscribe to hello Monday with Jessi Hempel wherever you get your favorite podcasts.

1 (30m 34s):
It's this American life I'm Elena baker sitting in for IRA glass. Today's show my bad today. We're looking at embarrassing stories and what those reveal about us. We're at act three trauma Rama, like I mentioned earlier, we asked you listeners to share your most embarrassing stories. We got hundreds of Facebook and Instagram messages and nearly a thousand emails. Okay. Quick note, embarrassing stories can sometimes involve bodily functions and we have one or two like that. If that's not your thing, don't say I didn't warn you. Anyway, these stories you sent in, I invited the regular host of this show, IRA, glass in to share those. Hey, there are no.

6 (31m 12s):
So can I ask you something? Yeah. Okay. You said earlier that you get embarrassed every day. Really?

1 (31m 21s):
Oh yeah. I had something really embarrassing happened to me two nights ago per this show. What was it? I was started with tripping and falling. I was carrying a pizza on a plate and I tripped and it fell face forward onto the couch. No, this is the guy I'm seeing. Right? So it, it was like a white couch. So it stains. So I'm cleaning it up. And then there was like a perfect piece of mozzarella curl and I, you know, fell so I shouldn't have eaten it, but I wanted to eat it. So I picked it up out of the, like, it was stuck in the couch. I picked it up and ate it. And as I bid in, I realized

6 (32m 1s):
It was not, it was

1 (32m 3s):
A full toenail, like a big toe toenail.

6 (32m 7s):
Wow. That's a real, that has three dimensions. Totally

1 (32m 17s):
Rubbed since thing

6 (32m 19s):
I've ever done. I don't think I told you. I think that that's on him for leaving the toenail in the couch. He should have been

1 (32m 28s):
The needle that needed to be threaded. Like for me to pick up the toenail, put it into my mouth, this sequence of events. That wouldn't be the only reason I did that happened seamlessly

6 (32m 42s):
And was watching. Yeah.

1 (32m 44s):
And he was embarrassed too. He was very embarrassed

6 (32m 47s):
Because it was his toenail. Yeah. He goes

1 (32m 48s):
To just isn't it just doesn't seem like me. It's like, well, who's toenail is

6 (32m 56s):
He has somebody broke into your apartment, cut their nails. Didn't dig anything and laughed. I've been reading about that. The New York post happening all the time.

1 (33m 6s):
Okay. But we're not here to her about me. We have all of these listener, embarrassing stories I want to share with you. Yes.

6 (33m 13s):
I am very curious about what you found.

1 (33m 15s):
All right. So one of the things that stood out to me most from reading all these emails is that so many people wrote in saying, I'm the only person who could have possibly done this. And then five emails later with someone in the inbox with the exact same story. Really? Yeah. Like there were 16 women who wrote in with epic period.

6 (33m 34s):
I have to say, that's one. You can kind of anticipate. Yeah.

1 (33m 38s):
But you couldn't anticipate that three people were mistakenly. The reason that a bomb squad got called

6 (33m 44s):
In. Okay. I didn't see that coming. Or

1 (33m 47s):
Two people showed up dressed above and beyond to a costume party. Right. Only to find out that it was the wrong day, which also actually happened to me.

6 (34m 0s):
So what was it like, like, okay, so, so there are these, I guess different categories of responses,

1 (34m 5s):
Basically. Like the same things came up over and over again.

6 (34m 8s):
Okay. Break down the big ones I want to hear, like, what is, what's the number one?

1 (34m 11s):
So I would say the biggest one, the number one was bathroom stories. Like a quarter, a quarter of the people who wrote us bathroom stories followed by naked stories. That's number two.

6 (34m 22s):
Number two.

1 (34m 24s):
Not, not to be confused. Number two,

6 (34m 29s):
I will say both of those are so basic.

1 (34m 33s):
I think that people get embarrassed by the things that you were told not to do when you were a kid, like

6 (34m 39s):
That'd be naked, don't be naked. Use the bathroom. Exactly. So those are the biggest categories. And then what do the rest break down into? Yes.

1 (34m 45s):
Little kind of like various piles, you know, there's like embarrassing yourself in front of a crush. 65 people wrote in about that 65.

6 (34m 53s):
Yeah.

1 (34m 54s):
Yep. Or embarrassing yourself in front of your boss or a celebrity 79 people

6 (34m 59s):
I'd like to destroy comped together. Keep going,

1 (35m 2s):
Tripping and falling am usually at an important event that was 35 people. And then there were people who were caught in a lie.

6 (35m 11s):
All right. So I'm telling me one like that getting caught in a lie.

1 (35m 13s):
Okay. So there's this guy will, he told a lie for very understandable reasons in middle school. He's ruthlessly bullied for being Haitian. Oh, wow. Yeah. And it's just like, during the height of the aids epidemic, our country actually banned people from Haiti, from entering the U S because of aids. Exactly. Right. And you know, there were jokes about Haitians on late night TV. And so in middle school will, is picked on all the time for being Haitian. He's beat up. He's teased.

7 (35m 40s):
So boom. I go to high school, ninth grade, new year, new location. This is a location far away from my home, new kids, new teachers, ninth grade going well, two months in getting some friends. And then one of the, one of the kids asked me, yo, you got an accent. Where are you from? I'm like, oh shit, here we go again. And so these other kids waiting for response, and I just remember, I'm like, yo, I'm, I'm Jamaican. And they're like, oh, whoa. Yeah. Mon. And I was like, oh shit. Now I gotta beat Jamaican for the rest of my life. And I just remember, like, during my conversations with people, I would just do a, when you know, Jamaican phrases like, yo, did you do a homework?

7 (36m 26s):
But yo, I didn't understand the lesson, blood clot. You know, just saying that just to, you know, keep up this Jamaican image.

1 (36m 37s):
It sounds to me like he didn't even really know much about

7 (36m 39s):
Being Jamaican. I didn't know anything about being, I knew very little about Benjamin. I just, I knew how they sounded from, for named music. But you know, it was, y'all just took the stereotypes of Jamaicans. And I became that.

1 (36m 56s):
So we pulled this lie off for three years. Wow. Yeah. At school he's the Jamaican kid, but then another Jamaican kid, like an actual Jamaican kid shows up and everyone's like, oh, you gotta meet. Well,

6 (37m 9s):
Oh, that's not good for him.

7 (37m 11s):
Nope. And then he just started questioning me, oh, whale oil farm. Well find me for him. And I'm just making stuff up. I was just, free-styling it Dan, he paused and said that boy now, Joe, Megan. And I was like, oh shit. Oh shit. And I just said, no, no, no, no. You're from Jamaica. I'm from Jamaica, Queens. I'm not even from Jamaica, Queens. I'm not from Queens at all. I'm from Brooklyn, east New York.

6 (37m 44s):
Okay. So that's people caught in a lie. Tell me another category.

1 (37m 49s):
Okay. So I especially love the category of embarrassing stories where people tried to avoid embarrassment. And in doing that, they embarrass themselves.

6 (37m 58s):
Okay, let me hear one like that. Okay.

1 (37m 60s):
So this happened to this lady, Mary Gray from murals inlet, South Carolina. So she's a bridesmaid whose dress arrives and it's way too small day of the wedding. Shipments is another bridesmaid. One size up to swap dresses with her. Okay. This dress fits, but it's tight. And so she starts to get this irrational fear that if she bulging out of her dress, she's going to upstage the bride and groom. Oh. Like

6 (38m 23s):
People will look at her instead of exactly,

1 (38m 25s):
This cannot happen. And then this idea hits her saran wrap.

8 (38m 31s):
So I go into the kitchen, I find the saran wrap, I get it out. And I just start rapping when I go around and around and around until I am sitched and the dress zips up beautifully. And I think, yeah, this is going to work. This is actually genius and out the door I go.

1 (38m 55s):
So she's standing in 105 degree heat at the altar, you know, next to the bride and groom. And there's a big crowd watching and she just starts getting hotter and hotter and hotter.

8 (39m 6s):
I can feel the sweat starting to kind of roll down my back. And I'm looking down at the floor and I'm seeing spots and I'm a fainter. So I know, I know what that means. So I subtly if possible, I turn around to my groomsmen partner and I asked him to unzip my dress. And of course he has no idea what I'm talking about. And he's like, what? I said, I need you to blends up my dress. So he does it. He ends up my dress.

8 (39m 46s):
So now everyone knows that I'm wrapped up in saran wrap. And are you just mortified? I am just really focusing on not passing out. So I decide that I am going to take,

1 (40m 4s):
She ducks away, dresses open. She misses the rest of the ceremony, get some water.

6 (40m 9s):
It's funny. Her, her greatest fear was that she was going to upstage the bride and groom. And so she does the swarm map. And then that leads her to do exactly that she upstages.

1 (40m 17s):
Yeah. She is the thing that everyone remembers about that wedding

8 (40m 21s):
From start to finish. I am my own worst enemy in this story.

1 (40m 32s):
Okay. So the most haunting story that came into my inbox was this one. And it's so embarrassing that the woman who sent it doesn't want us to use her real name. Okay. We're going to call her Maya. So Maya is taking the GRE this, this last year. So she could apply to grad school because of COVID. She had to take it online in her home office. Right. But it's like a very regimented process, just so they know they're not cheating. There's a Proctor assigned to watch her through a webcam.

9 (40m 57s):
So before the test, I have to give them a little tour of my testing space. I have to show under the desk, over the desk, the walls, just everything so that they know I'm not cheating. So we do that. Everything's good to go. I start the test.

1 (41m 15s):
So Bart way through the test, she has this pain in her stomach and she's like, oh no, she's got to go. And she's got to go now. So she manages to hold it until the break. But then to her horror, the next break is just one minute long. Right? So she messages the Proctor and she's like, can I leave and come back in a minute? And he tells her,

9 (41m 36s):
If you leave the frame, you will forfeit the test. And so I'm sitting there and I'm like, I don't know what to do either. I leave now I give up, I go to the bathroom and don't take the GRE. You give up grad school. Or I do what I actually did.

1 (42m 0s):
What she actually does is she does the do

6 (42m 3s):
On the floor. We, while staying on camera, like nothing is happening at all. She, she

1 (42m 9s):
Like positions or arms on the

6 (42m 11s):
Chair, stop with this mental image. I don't want to say, keep going with your story.

1 (42m 15s):
Which, so this is surprisingly a category unto itself. We heard from four other people who had to make this same call during a standardized test

6 (42m 25s):
And made the same decision. Yeah.

1 (42m 26s):
Oh, well, they tried to hold it and it didn't work for them.

6 (42m 30s):
So what

1 (42m 30s):
Happens? So she assumes the worst of it is over. She makes it all the way to the next break. It's a 10 minute break. She's allowed to leave the room. Oh, during that

6 (42m 39s):
Break. Yeah.

9 (42m 40s):
But quickly I realized then at the end of the 10 minute break, I had to once again, give them this webcam tour of my testing area, including under my desk.

1 (42m 52s):
Oh my God. No.

9 (42m 55s):
So I realized, okay, the 10 minute break means cleaning this up. Keep in mind,

1 (42m 59s):
You know, the Proctor is still watching her through her webcam. So she has to army crawl across the room on the

6 (43m 5s):
Floor. Oh. To stay out of the camera's side. Exactly.

1 (43m 7s):
Exactly. But you got away with it, right? Like the Proctor never saw

9 (43m 12s):
No idea. So here's the thing I was telling this story to some friends over zoom. And I'm sitting at the same desk where I took the GRE and I told this story and obviously we're all laughing, whatever. And then one of my friends kind of like quietly waits for everything to die down and then says, is that a mirror behind you? And it was, I have a full sized standing mirror behind me. And so I went back to the door of the room and crawled all the way in and reenacted everything.

9 (43m 54s):
And all I could hear was done laughing. I wasn't even sure. I was like, could you see it or not? Could you see it or not? But they like, weren't breathing. And so eventually someone said, yeah, you could see everything for sure.

1 (44m 20s):
So the thing that sticks out to her about this story is it, it showed her new information about

6 (44m 24s):
Herself, the new information being

1 (44m 27s):
Like what Lowe's, she's willing to stoop to

6 (44m 30s):
The switch thing. Cause I think of it in a much more positive way of like how far she'll go to get what she feels like she needs to get.

1 (44m 37s):
That is not her take on it at all. That's one of the big things with these embarrassing stories is like, people never take it the positive way. For the most part, they always take it the way where they're like, I knew all my life, something was wrong with me. And now I know

9 (44m 54s):
Now forever more me getting into grad school is tainted by this experience. The thing that I can't get over with this is that it was, it was a choice I made it didn't happen to me. It was a choice. Does that make it better or worse? I don't know.

1 (45m 12s):
I think it makes it worse.

6 (45m 24s):
I know you're somebody who is super interested in embarrassment. Like you've thought about it. I had experienced it a lot. Like, is there something that, that, that going through a thousand of these stories showed you that you didn't actually know before

1 (45m 38s):
People in these emails they were tortured by these mistakes, right? Yeah. Totally embarrassed. And like often carried them their whole lives. And sometimes they were really small mistakes and reading them. I feel like it just made me think like, oh, actually I think the problem is that we think we're not supposed to make mistakes. Like we think we're supposed to make it through this life without like, you know, doing this, that or the other. And if you just say like, you know what, over the course of my lifetime, I'm going to trip and fall in public. My top is going to fly off when it's not supposed to. You just have to accept that. That is part of it.

1 (46m 18s):
That's part of the deal.

6 (46m 21s):
I like that. You're bringing this to a heartwarming ending.

1 (46m 24s):
I know that you're being sarcastic, But you're welcome. I want to share one last embarrassing story act for putting the bare ass and embarrassing of all the kinds of embarrassing stories you sent in one of the most common ones was a situation where you were a little bit naked or all the way naked in public. This is a common fear. One of the most frequent nightmares is the dream where you look down and realize you're naked in front of other people, Freud even wrote about it in the interpretation of dreams.

1 (47m 8s):
He called it the embarrassment dream of nakedness and said, quote. I believe that the great majority of my readers will at some time have found themselves in this situation, in a dream. When we feel embarrassed in our waking life, we often have this dream. The person in this next story who wrote in from Nashville has definitely had this dream. Her name is Carrie ad. She personally has no interest in being naked in public. In fact, even bathing suits are stretch

10 (47m 36s):
For her. I think people who have pool parties or total psychopaths, I don't understand why you would do that. You know, I have, since I was a kid, you know, luckily there aren't alone in England, but I used to come here to visit my grandmother and people would throw pool parties and I'd be like, why it? And I still feel that way. Why are you

1 (47m 57s):
Doing this to all

10 (47m 57s):
Of that? I don't want to go to the fucking beach for your goddamn birthday.

1 (48m 8s):
The story you're about to hear happen years ago when Carrie had, was living in New York city, she had just started seeing this guy. She liked a lot, an emergency room doctor, big personality, always smiling, reliable. He told a lot of funny stories about the ER, we're calling him Doug, the way she remembers it. They've been seeing each other for about a month. They'd slept over at her place. And it's the first night she stays over at his, as Carrie ed is drifting off to sleep.

10 (48m 37s):
I just remember being really, really tired and really needing to go to the bathroom. And that was kind of my lust saw as I was falling to sleep was, Ugh, I really need to pee, but I can't be bothered to get up and you know, find the bathroom. And then I had this dream that I really needed to go to the bathroom. And I was looking for one and I couldn't find one anywhere. And I was pushing this big metal door in my search for the bathroom and it was locked and I couldn't get through. And I was really, really frustrated. And then I woke up and I was naked, standing in a stairwell, pushing against a big door that went from the stairwell into the rest of the apartment building.

10 (49m 27s):
Oh

1 (49m 28s):
My God.

10 (49m 30s):
It was like my mind melted. Just the logic of the situation. Just, it made no sense.

1 (49m 40s):
Kari ed had sleepwalked out of Doug's apartment. Apparently she'd done this as a small child, just a few times that she had no memory of it at all. And she'd never sleep walked as an adult. So it didn't occur to her that that's what's happened. I felt like,

10 (49m 55s):
Like I completely lost my mind. Like how, like just, how am I here? How is this a thing that is happening? How am I awake?

1 (50m 10s):
Carrie had pushes open the metal stairwell door and sees to her relief Doug's apartment at the end of the hall she runs.

10 (50m 19s):
And then I realized like, I don't know if this is his apartment. And I turned around and looked and it was just one of those New York buildings out, just a bunch of apartments to each floor that all kind of looked the same. And I realized like, I just feels like a

1 (50m 33s):
Nightmare. This does feel

10 (50m 35s):
Like absolute fucking nightmare.

1 (50m 38s):
Carry out, approaches the door. She thinks is Doug's apartment though. She's not

10 (50m 42s):
Sure. So what I decide to do is knock on the door and then I run away from the door, back into the stairwell before they answer and put my ear to the door. I crack the door to the stairwell so I can hear them, but I can't see them. They can't see me this way. If it's a voice, I recognize I can run around the corner and into the apartment. And if it's a voice I don't recognize they won't see me. And hopefully they'll just close the door. That's a pretty

1 (51m 14s):
Brilliant plan.

10 (51m 16s):
Thank you. Thank you. So I do that and it is not a voice I recognize. And I start to realize the depth of the horror of the situation that I'm in. People are going to start getting up and going to work. And I cannot be there when that happens, by the way, I still really need to pee. Like I need to pee so badly that it woke me up and made me sleep walk. You know,

1 (51m 52s):
She decides the least conspicuous place to pee while naked is at the bottom of the stairwell, leaning against the door to the lobby. If someone tries to open the door, she can push back. And if someone's coming down the stairs, she'll hear them. So she swallows her pride and does it,

10 (52m 9s):
It's just horrified. I was so horrified. I remember very clearly just sitting down on this stairwell and just crying. This was just such a ridiculous situation that I couldn't get myself out of. And if only I had been more aware of my surroundings, I would have known that he was in apartment two B or whatever. It was like, how could I have not paid attention in the lift? And I remember, you know, drying my eyes and like, couldn't even like my nose on my sleeve, you know, bring my nose on my arm and just thinking, all right, back up, you have to take control of the situation and fix it.

10 (52m 57s):
Like you do not have an option, just have to fix it. And so I started very gently trying all of the doors in the apartment, building

1 (53m 19s):
Her help is whatever door she came out of

10 (53m 21s):
Still be unlocked. And I went systematically floor to floor and I tried every door and on the top floor and there was one apartment that I could hear voices in. And they were having a great time. It sounded like someone was having a party.

1 (53m 38s):
If she can't find another solution, she thinks I'm going to knock on this door. But first she tries all the doors again. And then the answer occurs to her mailboxes. His name will be on his mailbox. She runs to the ground floor and sees through the door that the lobby is all glass windows. There's no way to get to the mailboxes without everyone in the streets, seeing her naked. So she heads back up to that party on the top floor, rings the bell and then runs and hides behind the door. A woman comes out, she's clearly tipsy, carry on calls to her asking if she can come over to the stairwell, which the woman does, how are you even able to like cover or hide yourself?

10 (54m 24s):
Really? Isn't it, it's just that cartoon. You know, one arm across your boobs, your little hand as a fig leaf. I mean, that's all you can do in that situation.

1 (54m 38s):
Carry out, explains her predicament and asks. If she can borrow some clothes, the woman seems totally unphased. Like of course this happens all the time. She gestures for Carrie ed to come on in and walks back into the party. Carry ads like, wait, no, no, no, but the door's closing. So she reluctantly follows five people are there. They see her naked, Carrie ad dives, behind a couch. The woman brings her a track suit, the whole party rallies to try and help carry out, solve this situation. She describes Doug to them. The woman thinks she knows where he lives. They knock on one or two doors, waking up neighbors who are not him. They call carry ed sell no answer.

1 (55m 18s):
Eventually the woman tells Carrie to just sleep on the couch. Carrie had wakes up at seven. The next morning, tries her phone again and gets an answer.

10 (55m 36s):
And the person on the phone is not the guy that I had been with at somebody else. And they're really angry. And he kept saying, what's your name? What's your name? And I kept saying, I want to speak to, you know, this guy. And they wouldn't hand the phone over. And I was getting really pissed because I was like, well, who are you just given the phone? And they said, what's your name? What's your name? And I said, Carrie ad. And then they said, what's your last name? And I said, Harmon. And then this guy gets on the phone. She

1 (56m 3s):
Means Doug.

10 (56m 4s):
And he's just like, what Duff fuck, where he's like really angry.

1 (56m 11s):
It turns out while Carrie had, had been running around the hallways naked, he'd woken up in the middle of the night to find carry ads, clothes, wallet, phone, but no carry ad. It was like, she'd vanished. I talked to Doug. He didn't want to be on the radio, but here's what he said. He looked for her everywhere. He peeked into his roommate's room to see if maybe she'd accidentally crawled in their bed. Then he opened the fridge. Then the oven before catching himself and thinking, why would she be in the oven next? He searched the building outside the building. Eventually he called one of her friends. They didn't know what to do. He thought she's been gone long enough with no clothes on.

1 (56m 52s):
This could be serious by now. It was almost morning. So he called the police. They showed up 20 minutes later. He explained to them, I was out with his girl. She came back here. She appears to be lost. One of the officers started questioning him aggressively. He's not certain if they were just jerks, but he remembers thinking they were probably more suspicious of him because he was black. It went from zero to a hundred fast as Doug put it. I remember feeling like this is the most screwed up situation I've ever been in this dude. Doesn't believe I'm telling the truth.

1 (57m 33s):
Maybe he thinks I killed her justice. Things were escalating. Carrie had finally got through on the phone. Carrie had takes the elevator down to Doug's floor. When she steps out the police greet her. She realizes this is who'd answered the phone. Once she explains her side of the story, they leave and it's just carry out. And Doug,

10 (57m 59s):
I think it took me a minute to recognize the gravity of what had happened to him. But I think once I really realized that at one point in the evening, he was a suspect like, oh, they, they were not on your side. You know,

1 (58m 20s):
That's funny. That's like such a white person thing to think.

10 (58m 23s):
Yeah, yeah, of course. Of course it is. Yeah. You know, I felt the gap. I felt how much we didn't really know each other in that moment, but I just remember saying, I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry, because he was genuinely very shaken up, you know? And, and he being the lovely guy that he was, he was just like, I'm just, I'm glad that you're okay. But I have to get on with my day.

1 (59m 3s):
They never went out again. No, mostly because he moved across the country. A few days later, this date had been planned as kind of a last night together. But they stayed in touch a year later when he came back to visit, he and Carrie had went to dinner with his friends,

10 (59m 19s):
The gentleman that, that he, I remember, you know, we were sort of chatting and he said, oh, I haven't told them about the story. And I said, oh, it's fine. If you want to tell them, you could tell him. He said, no, no, no, no, no. I think he was worried about embarrassing me. And then I went to the bathroom and I came back and everybody was cracking up and he looked at me and he said, I told him, I told him I couldn't help it. And we all laughed about it. You know, he, he also left that part out in order for it to be funny, you know,

1 (59m 48s):
Since things came out okay. In the end, they each tell it this way at parties, they leave out the fear. So most of the embarrassing stories I've heard and collected for this week show, the person does something that results in their embarrassment, right? Like we have this lady she's saran wraps herself for a wedding. There's someone who raises a paddle in an auction, you know? And it goes awry. And so like, I, I get why they feel embarrassed, but you didn't do anything like you didn't overstep. You didn't make mistake, but you still feel embarrassed.

10 (1h 0m 25s):
Yeah. I suppose if you take blame off the table, it takes maybe a certain flavor of that embarrassment out, but it doesn't take the embarrassment away. That is something inherently embarrassing about running into a room full of people you don't know naked. Like

1 (1h 0m 45s):
It's still happened to you.

10 (1h 0m 47s):
It's still happened to me. Yeah. I suppose I should feel pretty Bulletproof now. Shouldn't I, they think once something really like so embarrassing happens. I do think you sort of cross that threshold somehow. And if, if, if that's okay, like then why be embarrassed? And for a long time, I would think carry out, like you got yourself out of this situation. You're not naked in a stairwell on the lower east side. Like you can figure this out.

1 (1h 1m 33s):
I like ending the show there. Someone who wasn't just embarrassed. She lived the experience. That's like a metaphor for embarrassment, an experience. Most of us only know from nightmares and came out better for it. I like thinking that's when embarrassment can do Our program was produced today by me, Tobin Lowe, and Diane, the people who put our show together include BIM auto wound.

1 (1h 2m 17s):
Me Susan Burton, Sean Cole, Andrea Lopez. Cruzado Eva to Kornfeld Damien grave, haunted Joffey waltz, Seth Lynn Stowe Nelson, Catherine rimando Nadia, Raymond Elise Spiegel, Laura star Chesky Lily Sullivan Christopher's Matala Matt Tierney and Chloe Weiner. Our managing editors are Abdirahman senior editor. David Kestenbaum. Our executive editor is Emmanuel Barry special. Thanks today to all the listeners who wrote in with their most embarrassing stories. Also, thanks to Lisa Pollack, Ari Safferstein Henry Phillips will still Vance the epilepsy foundation. Kevin Alison Frankie, French, Kate and Erin Anderson, Reagan baker, hope Rosenblatt, Brian Finkelstein, Elle Birkin, Kemper, Emily Branton, Carmen, Cuba, and Tara Westover.

1 (1h 2m 58s):
Our website, this American life.org, where you can stream our archive of over 700 episodes for absolutely free. This American life is delivered to public radio stations by PRX, the public radio exchange. Thanks as always to my boss, IRA glass, you know, he told me he does the same thing. Every Saturday night. He watches the MNM movie, eight mile shotguns, a tall boy stares at himself in the mirror. And I just start rapping I'm Elena baker. Join us next week. For more stories of this American life,

11 (1h 3m 27s):
We could be a whole lot <inaudible>.