Bank of America (0s):
Support for this American life comes from bank of America and their original podcast that made all the difference. Join host Alicia Burke, as she speaks with people like environmental justice, activists, Catherine Coleman flowers and actor, environmentalist, and impact investor, Adrian Grenier in each conversation, a guest discusses the moment that sparked their vital work, creating a better world. You can listen to it on the bank of America, original podcast that made all the difference wherever you get your podcasts, but would you like the power to do?

0 (31s):
I know so many people who have films that they have watched over and over, and I have never really gotten that. I always feel like there are so many films that I haven't seen. Like why would I watch one again? But we get into these conversations and there always comes a moment where I'm asked, well, what is the film that you've seen the most? And then I have to admit it's the Poseidon adventure, which I know is not a good film. It's this seventies movie about an ocean liner that gets hit by a tsunami flips upside down and the passenger try to make their way to safety. It's part of an entire genre films, disaster films that have never gotten any respect. Like nobody thinks of these films as art, but I loved it at the time when I saw it, it felt big and it felt important and serious.

0 (1m 14s):
And I remember it was very emotional and the reason that I saw it so many times that this is the film that I saw more than any other was not because I loved the film was because of where I saw it. It was on vacation. We didn't take many vacations when I was a kid, but on one of them, we stayed at this hotel in Florida where the rooms had this thing where they offered a couple of movies all day long. And this was so long ago and the 1970s, like my sisters and I, we had never seen anything like that. Like even cable TV was rare back then, besides an Avenger was the film that they offered. And my sister, Karen and I, we ate it up.

1 (1m 50s):
That was the movie we watched over and over again. Yeah, I was. So

0 (1m 54s):
This was like a very important movie that Karen and her son, Zack, my nephew, who we tried to explain this to recently.

1 (2m 1s):
So we ended up watching it on TV, like at night if our parents went out to dinner or if it was a rainy day. Yeah. We loved it.

0 (2m 8s):
The way that I remember it is that is that the hotel just had this movie on a loop and it would just, as soon as it would finish, it would start again. And the way I remember it is that every time we would come into the hotel room, you could turn on the TV and you'd be somewhere in the beside adventure.

1 (2m 24s):
That sounds vaguely familiar to me. I don't totally remember that, but that might be right. Yeah.

0 (2m 28s):
And I remember it having a lot of feeling. Do you remember it having a lot of feeling?

1 (2m 35s):
What does that mean? Having a lot of feeling like

0 (2m 38s):
A lot of emotions. Yeah.

1 (2m 40s):
Well, it's scary. And you know, you're really invested in their journey to, you know, escape alive. I don't think I'm giving anything away by saying that sort of our

0 (2m 51s):
Here at the radio show. These last few weeks, we've been talking about the random films that people have strong attachments to thinking that might be a good episode of the show. And I started to think about the, beside an adventure and I wondered what it would be like to see it again. Like, would it have any feeling? Would any of it feel the way it did to me as a kid? Would it be that way to Karen? So my sister and I, we watched it and I invited Zach to, since he's the age that we were, when we watched it back in seventies, he's 13, I was 14 at the time, Karen was 11. And I want to say, I did not expect Zach to like it. Like he does not like a lot of films and right away, very foreseen. Let us know the kind of film we were in for a little boy visits the bridge of the SS beside this ocean liner in the middle of a big storm.

0 (3m 39s):
And the little boy is greeted by the captain. Who's played by Leslie Nielsen, who at this point had not made the career transition to parroting characters like this captain

2 (3m 49s):
Shelby you've picked a particularly fascinating moment to accept my invitation. These waves don't bother you. What?

3 (3m 54s):
I served up to 18 feet. These look more like 30, 35 to be exact. Wow, sir.

4 (4m 6s):
Those lines. So cheesy.

0 (4m 10s):
I didn't remember how Winncy the acting got in some places when you're in a spork, nine shows up, it's clear that the 1956 Oscar winner for best actor is not in one of his best roles.

5 (4m 21s):
Heavy.

4 (4m 22s):
Why is he so angry?

0 (4m 24s):
Vernon does seem to shout nearly every one of his lines in the film when they, that kind of stunned me and I did not expect seeing the film again was how much of the dialogue I remember from decades ago. And I was also surprised to realize, and I do not know what this is about me. The lines I remember the most are like the little comic zingers. You know, like when a crew member is asked, if he's married, I know his corny response before he says it.

6 (4m 49s):
No marriage for me, Mrs. Rosa, I've got a mistress C

0 (4m 57s):
I think I did remember. And remember liking from the film was it, this was an old fashioned enough movie that producers tried to insert some big ideas into the adventure. So all means these big ideas are provided by gene Hackman who plays a rebellious young priest and turtleneck. His big theological idea is a very conveniently helpful one for people who were about to be capsized in the middle of the ocean. God doesn't want you to wait for miracles. You have to take matters into your own hands.

5 (5m 22s):
Don't pray to God to solve your problems.

0 (5m 24s):
This is from a sermon. He delivers early in the film, have the guts

5 (5m 28s):
To fight for yourself. God wants brave souls. He wants winners, not quitters. If you can't win, at least try to win.

0 (5m 40s):
He comes back to this over and over through the film, rattling the passengers to fight on. I love that as a teenager, that there was this idealistic guy with this principle that he's trying to live by. And this idea about God that the film is testing. And I have to say seeing it today, I still loved it. That they put that in there anyway, soon enough, right? At the stroke of midnight on new year's Eve, the tsunami hits the boat, flips the pop line tips. And if I could do the upside down new year's party, gene Hackman, and this is only eight passengers that they shouldn't stay and wait for God to send rescuers a time with him to safety.

0 (6m 20s):
Please

4 (6m 21s):
Come with

0 (6m 22s):
The creep from deck to deck, really escaping the rising waters. They go the ceilings of the rooms with the fours that they walk on in the fours and the ceilings. It was a fiery upset on kitchen. They go up slippery ladders and inverted staircases. And by the time they start dying one by one for Karen and me and even tack is no joke. We're in it. We care.

4 (6m 49s):
You should just have a heart attack. Wait, did she just have a heart attack? Yes. Wow. That's pretty random heart attack. Not really think about the fact that she just did all that swimming and she's out of shape

0 (7m 4s):
After Mrs. Rosen dementia, grandma and the film dies. Her husband discovered her dead body.

4 (7m 10s):
All that. Guy's going to be so sad.

0 (7m 13s):
I remember this moment so well, I remember

4 (7m 14s):
This too really well. This was very effective. I've been really invested in this. Maybe it's sort of a good,

0 (7m 23s):
You do feel

4 (7m 24s):
Very invested. Yeah. I just like, I'm not sure what's going to happen next. Unlike most other movies.

0 (7m 31s):
I wondered if that was going to feel the same big feelings that I felt for the film at his age. And he totally did.

4 (7m 40s):
Wow. She dies. No. Oh, he dies too. No, there were so close. No,

0 (7m 56s):
By the time you get to gene, Hackman's big climactic speech to God.

5 (7m 59s):
You know, one of us would come on. Wait. No, thanks. Do you,

0 (8m 4s):
It was clear upside an adventure. It does its job. It gets to you. But thinking about the experience that Zach had watching the film and the one that I was having, it's so different, right? For me, it was like walking into a room from my childhood home and finding it intact and exactly how I remembered it. Or we would get to a scene. And I would remember things I didn't even realize I remembered. Is there even a name for that? When we watch a movie together, you know, we think we're watching the same thing, but we are not for me. The, beside an adventure is a portal back to that vacation and being in that hotel room with Karen and knowing those movie stars from other things they made. And just that whole time in my life, I can't chose that.

0 (8m 47s):
That movie wasn't WBZ Chicago. It's this American life. I'm a glass today on our program. We're at a point in the pandemic where many of us are still not going out to movie theaters. And we thought here at our show, let's do a movie night. Let's do a show about movies. And in particular, we decided to get people who have watched a film over and over who see something in it that most people do not see films for which they are an audience of one. These are the stories about how we connect to films. Sometimes, you know, very deeply, but sometimes in very strange and random ways, stay with us At wine, many things.

0 (9m 30s):
She ought to understand what our producers, Diane Wu spent most of her life thinking that she did not have a unique and personal take on the film, the sound of music, the sound of music after all, everybody loves it. What's there to say. And then she are now, her take is very different.

8 (9m 47s):
I watched the sound of music all the time. As a kid, it was one of maybe six VHS tapes we had at home along with Bambi and 101 Dalmatians. And a few years ago, I was talking with her friend about how much I loved the movie growing up. And he said, me too, though, the Nazi scared me. And I said, what Nazis? And that's when I learned, I'd never seen the second half of the film. It turns out the movie came out in a two VHS box set. And I, for some reason had only ever seen the first tape. My dad doesn't remember a second tape either. And why would you need one? The first half makes perfect sense on its own. Here's the plot.

8 (10m 28s):
It's a movie about a woman named Maria who is sent to the countryside to babysit a giant family of children with a mean dad, the Von Trapps, Maria shows up bubbly fun, and teaches them to sing and play and be kids all against the wishes of their father. But the singing wins them over. They sing together as a family and finally at a party, the kids sing a beautiful song for the guests farewell. And after that, Maria having successfully fixed the family leaves just like Mary Poppins did when she fixed that family. And that's the end of the movie. I had very clear fond memories of the goat herd puppet show and the scene in the gazebo where Liezel the oldest daughter secretly met with the mailman she was in love with and they sang and danced.

8 (11m 15s):
And it was so romantic. I had no further questions about any of the characters. So when I learned that there were 70 more minutes to the film, I didn't bother going to look for them. The sound of music was a full, complete and wonderful artifact from my childhood. I didn't want to taint it with Nazis, but when my coworker, Lena, who's producing this week show and as a musical theater fan, which I most definitely am not. When she found out I still hadn't seen the whole thing. It seemed heretical to her. She couldn't let it stand. So we watched it together over the internet one Sunday afternoon, and I prepared to have a childhood memory, either slightly enhanced or completely ruined before we started.

8 (11m 56s):
She had me predict what was going to be in the second half I want based on, and this is based on my childhood memory. And just like, what I would like to see is it's the second half is just focused on my favorite two characters, Liesel and Maha mailman. I want to see their courtship and, and then they get married and that's the end of the movie we hit play and started at the very beginning, started with a partner. I know, and the first half was more or less the simple sunny movie I remembered seeing the kindly and dour nuns come on screen early on was like recognizing teachers I had in elementary school.

9 (12m 38s):
Yeah, sister, Bernice, I simply cannot find her.

8 (12m 43s):
There was that cause Zibo scene when the mailman and Liesel sing to each other

10 (12m 47s):
And 16 going on 17, I know that I'm not

8 (12m 54s):
Then whirl around the gazebo. Dancing. This still looks like so much fun Watching. Now though, I saw a lot of things that I had completely missed as a kid, because as a child, it apparently ignored anything that adults who are not Maria said to each other, literally none of that dialogue registered. It was like the mumbly grownups and Charlie brown. My kids self had edited full characters out of the film. I barely remembered the Baroness who wants to marry the dad.

11 (13m 30s):
It's really is exciting for me. A gay dog being here with you,

2 (13m 34s):
Trees, lakes, mountains. When you seen one, you've seen them

11 (13m 36s):
All. That is not what I need. And you know it.

8 (13m 40s):
So any of their plot lines that were not resolved in the first half moot, I also missed, of course, how Maria and the dad supposedly fall in love the dad by the way, was even meaner than I remembered. Just cruel to Maria,

2 (13m 55s):
Turn around, please turn off The dress and have to put on another one before you meet the children.

8 (14m 7s):
And because of that, I still had a lot of trouble squaring. The idea that anything between the two of them was remotely romantic.

11 (14m 14s):
He thinks he's in love with you, but that's not true.

8 (14m 19s):
Or they really spell it out. Yeah.

2 (14m 22s):
But you must

8 (14m 23s):
Kind of a lot,

11 (14m 24s):
Surely you've noticed the way he looks into your eyes and you know, you blushed in his arms when you're dancing. Just now

8 (14m 34s):
The one romance that's still sparkled was between Liesel and the mailman. So watching again, I have to say the mailman was not as cute as I remembered. It's the mailman. Oh, he kind of looks like a Nazi. Ralph, the mailman comes back later in the first half to throw rocks on Liesel's window. That moment. I remember again. So dreamy, but the one that followed was completely over my head as a kid.

12 (15m 6s):
I didn't see. I mean, I didn't know you were Heil Hitler,

8 (15m 11s):
Heil, Hitler. Yeah. Heil, Hitler. The hero of my version of the sound of music who I'd hope the second half would center around. He was the Nazi. Also not the mailman. Yes. He was wearing a uniform and delivering messages, but he was not employed by the postal service. As my child self had understood. He was some kind of military messenger. The first half is peppered with a few more hints like this, that things are going to take a turn historically in the second half of the movie, uneasy, talk about Austrian flags and something called an Anschluss, but all against the backdrop of a glamorous party, they're kind of easy to miss.

8 (15m 54s):
If you're seven. The last thing I missed as a kid, the big title card that says intermission and yellow script that comes on screen after Maria closes the door. Maybe it was on the second VHS Lena and I fast forward through the music at intermission and the second half starts, oh my God, Lena.

12 (16m 18s):
That's like a second movie for you. And this is really weird. You haven't seen any of this 5, 6, 7,

8 (16m 28s):
Except as the second half starts, I suddenly feel like I have seen all of this. Watching my children play ball in their backyard, felt strangely familiar. I'd spent so much time already with avant traps at their home that this new scene just felt like part of my memories, this confusing deja VU sticks with me all the way through the scenes of Maria, back at the Abbey. It's not until the dad goes to meet Maria at the gazebo and declare his love for her. That I am certain. I have never seen this before.

12 (16m 59s):
You know, when I first started loving you at night at the dinner table, when you sat on that little pine cone, I knew the first time you blew that silly whistled.

8 (17m 14s):
Oh my God. Oh my

12 (17m 16s):
Love.

8 (17m 17s):
This is so gross. They basically just stared at each other three times. And now Maria was letting this horrible man marry her. I could not believe it just as I'm settling into the newness of the second half gawking at Maria's wedding dress, everything in the movie shifts the Nazis roll into town. It's incredibly abrupt. A cut from literal wedding bells to a bell tolling over a giant swastika flag on the town square lines of soldiers, March across the Plaza. Ominously, the color seemed to drain out of the movie. The children show up next and drab brown clothes against the Stony backdrop instead of their perky curtain outfits from the first half, the characters, meanwhile are dealing with their own whiplash.

8 (18m 4s):
Ralph surprises Liezel as she's getting into a car

12 (18m 8s):
Liza Liezel,

8 (18m 12s):
I'm basically as excited to see Ralph as Liesl is right here, because maybe this is when we get to the version of the second half. I'd been wanting to see Ralph and Liesel's courtship.

12 (18m 22s):
Well, I'm so glad to see you. It's been good afternoon. You would take this please and deliver it to your father. As soon as he comes home,

8 (18m 29s):
Ouch, he's standing in front of a Nazi flag. Liezel is clearly disoriented, but still hopeful. As she holds the telegram and Kylie asks

12 (18m 40s):
Don't. You want to come over tonight and deliver it yourself. I am not occupied with more important matters and your father better be to have he knows what's good for him, but Rauf

8 (18m 51s):
Oh, wait. So you chose a bad one. This was the only relationship in the movie that interested me at all as a child. And it's sobering to see the whole realistic arc of it as for the rest of the second half. It's predictable, you know, their first escape isn't going to work out. It's obvious they'll win the singing contest. Great songs from the first half are just recycled in a weird way. The one moment that moves me though, it doesn't have anything to do with the characters I was attached to from the first half. It happens surprisingly. When the dad starts singing a love song to his country on stage

13 (19m 30s):
<inaudible> every morning, you agree to me,

8 (19m 43s):
He's doing it as an active dental defiance that makes the Nazi officials, mustache, Twitch. And as the crowd joins in with him, I feel my throat catch a little. They remind me of people all around the world. This summer in Hong Kong, they wrote belly reus here in America. We're a longing to hold onto something as their own countries change rapidly. Excrutiatingly around them.

8 (20m 28s):
The darkest moment of the movie is perhaps at the very end, when the family has almost escaped, but then Ralph finds them in the Abbey. He raises a whistle to turn them in, but the dad stops and reasons with him.

12 (20m 40s):
You don't really belong to them. Stay where you are. Come away with us.

8 (20m 50s):
Ralph looks scared and boyish. He relinquishes his gun and leans over relieved, but then the dad takes it one step too far.

7 (20m 58s):
You will never be one of them. Lieutenant <inaudible>,

8 (21m 9s):
Ralph chooses to betray them. It's such a sinister in dissonance scene held up against the cotton candy. First half. The family still makes it out in time, but in spite of him not with his help and that's the actual end of the movie as far as I know today. So here's my conclusion. Having seen it all. You don't need the second half. It's actually better without it. The second half just takes one of my kids. Self's favorite characters, Ralph, and makes him a villain then takes the worst character. The dad and makes him a hero. There are barely any new songs.

8 (21m 49s):
Maria disappears as a person. Liezel just looks uncomfortable the whole time, trying to act like a child for another hour, everything memorable and iconic about the movie. My favorite things, the kids singing goodnight, DOE a deer that'll happens in the first half, but then I was at the beach this weekend with her friend staring at the clouds and the kids throwing sand. And he said a thing that changed my feeling about the second half. He told me that lately he can last about three minutes feeling like everything is normal before he remembers it. Isn't it made me understand the urge to include the dark end of the story and the movie about the singing family.

8 (22m 29s):
Because once everything in the world has changed, you can't really will it to stay outside the frame.

0 (22m 42s):
Diane Wu is one of the producers of our show coming up. Your ex-wife has a few thoughts about your marriage and she makes a movie about that. That does not sound like that's going to be a good experience for you. That's in a minute from Chicago public radio. When our program continues

Paramount Plus and Showtime (22m 60s):
Streams, Joe time and paramount plus together for just 9 99 a month for a limited time, watch it all star-studded movies, live sports and groundbreaking originals from the shy in billions to the Palm patrol movie and star Trek discovery. Plus the NFL Showtime championship boxing UA, and more it's everything you want now together. Get the bundle and save paramount plus and Showtime sign up now@paramountplus.com slash Showtime bundle

3M (23m 30s):
Support for this American life comes from 3m, from helping drive vaccine and therapy development with advanced purification technologies to developing an Agilent that helps boost vaccine effectiveness. The research scientists at 3m are delivering innovative health care solutions to help us and prepare us to better tackle what's next, learn more at 3m.com/improving lives. 3m science applied to life.

0 (23m 57s):
This American life Myra glass today on our program at this point in the pandemic where so many of us are still not going out to movie theaters. We thought here at our program, let's do a movie night, a show about movies or stories about people who see something that most of us do not see in some film today's show is a rerun. We have arrived at act two of our program, act two, putting the ease in disease. So back when the pandemic first took hold, a lot of people were watching or rewatching the movie contagion, which originally came out in 2011. Maybe you've seen this. It's about a deadly and fast spreading virus that is spread by respiratory droplets, goes around the world, governments fail to contain it.

0 (24m 37s):
And I think when we watch films like that or read books about the 1918 flu, cause it just scratches this itch where we want some way to think about what we are going through right now. And it's just nice to see somebody else go through some version of it. One of our producers, Sean call has never seen contagion, but he found itself turned into this other movie, a movie about a virus that you've probably never heard of. It is a very different spin on the subject. You're Sean,

16 (25m 8s):
You won't find this movie on Netflix or YouTube or anywhere like that, or at least I couldn't find it that way. I finally had to order a DVD from an online vintage movie store. It's clear. My copy was pirated off cable skips a lot. And like all of the contagion geeks, I was floored by some of the parallels to now, especially given that this movie came out in 1968, more than half a century ago. For instance, in this movie, instead of a bat, the vector of the virus is a bird, a two can that's stowed away a board of Greek freighter, somewhere near central America. And then the boat docks in New York Harbor for inspection. And the first mate alerts the military that a lot of the crew is sick.

17 (25m 48s):
I have to hold a ship in quarantine in Beverly, if it is a virus, my guest at a brand new one, some kind of a mutation, no telling how long it will take to identify it.

16 (25m 56s):
The two can is still on board held in a makeshift chicken wire fence, but then it gets loose flies straight into the city and starts infecting people. Just a few. At first, the mayor of New York in an empty suit motivated mostly by money and poll numbers holds a press conference, speaking into a microphone labeled w NYC public radio station in New York, where I used to work with

17 (26m 19s):
There is absolutely no. Cause for alarm only 47 cases have been reported so far. The however, the commissioner of health recommends that you wear a surgical mask. When you are out in public. Now

16 (26m 36s):
He holds up a mask. Exactly like the one I wear every day after the reporters leave though, there's deep concern in dread the health commissioner and older Anthony Fowchee type scolds the mayor for underplaying the threat everyone's facing

17 (26m 50s):
The light on the 47 and reported to doctors. But when you feel good, you don't go to a doctor or knows how many more habits a virus only has a life of 10 days or so you said to yourself, yes, but somebody who gets it on the 10th day and that's it for another 10 days and a week after he gets it, he gives it to somebody else. And so on theoretically to go on for years

16 (27m 9s):
Soon, everyone is scurrying around the city and a mask panic businesses suffer a presidential Envoy, fast tracks the development of a vaccine. If it weren't for the 20 foot long cop cars and airline mod dresses, it feels like some of these scenes could have been shot in Manhattan last weekend, Except there's one major difference between this film and the Steven Soderbergh, Egan contagion like reality. We're all living in because in this movie, the virus is not fatal. It doesn't even cause a fever or a cough. Instead the main and only symptom is absolute euphoria. That's it.

16 (27m 50s):
Everyone had infects experiences, unbridled, happiness, and elation. Its victims begin acting kindly to one another deferential in just a couple of days. The city is transformed from this

17 (28m 2s):
<inaudible> you're telling me when I came in, got damn right. I am, oh, you're shoving Maggie on the sidewalk to this good morning. Nice day. Isn't it. Pardon me? I help you.

16 (28m 23s):
The movie is called. What's so bad about feeling good. It's accommodate romcom really? And it is not a good movie, which is why you likely haven't heard of it. Even though the lead actors are George <inaudible> from breakfast at Tiffany's and the 18 and Mary Tyler Moore from Mary Tyler Moore. And they do a good job. Pretty much everyone in the cast is really skilled, but the whole production is outlandishly, campy and characteristic. There were a few very awkward choices. Cartoon word balloons emerged from the two cans mounts. Sometimes when it squawks, it was so, you know what it's thinking? Oh, and there's a schmaltzy am radio theme song, kind of a knockoff of Burt Bacharach.

17 (29m 1s):
What's so wrong. That happy sensation, that sense of other elation. What's so bad about feeling

16 (29m 18s):
That said it's also a great movie and the way that silly B movies can be so satisfying, especially the arcane ones that make you feel like a kid watching adults mess up for the first time, I have a greatest hits list of them in my head, wild in the streets about ages, hippies, waging, a foo against the us government invasion of the bee girls, about a race of murderous women who are also bees, both of which you can watch online for free. But since it's so hard to find a copy of this movie, let me just continue taking you through the plot in a kind of abbreviated radio refied Cliff's notes version for your movie, not going enjoyment, just a few blocks away. So George Burkhardt and Mary Tyler Moore are Pete and Liz, two characters who are tailor made for this particular plot because they don't contain announce of euphoria.

16 (30m 4s):
They're brooding, existentialist, already types that have dropped out of society. Living in the east village. They'd be boyfriend and girlfriend. If they believed in that sort of thing for no discernible reason, or maybe because the script wasn't working and they had to fix it quickly. There's a lot of voiceover by these two,

17 (30m 20s):
A couple of years ago, I just like the rest of your conformance. I was an advertising name on the door carpet on the floor and officer headaches, the whole bed wised up that phony world and came down here, started Liz. She was on the treadmill to, I sure was uptown supper, clubs, singing schmaltzy songs to the drunks, fighting to get to the top of the ladder. And then my heart got into the act and somebody stepped on it pills to sleep pills to stay awake. Finally, I asked myself, well, what? This was the answer.

16 (30m 54s):
This being the communal building, they live in with a tribe of other unhappy. Nihilists collecting unemployment. They all look a little like cave people at a gallery opening. One of them spends every hour of every day, completely enveloped inside of a sack. They call her the SAC

17 (31m 9s):
Since the problems of life for insoluble, one should draw and complete isolation and live a life of total non involvement with other people. The SAC is right.

16 (31m 22s):
Meanwhile, little ways downtown the Fowchee and commissioner of health pretty quickly figures out how the virus works.

17 (31m 28s):
It has to be transmitted by respiration. All that bird has to do is get within breathing distance of somebody and pop goes to the least

16 (31m 37s):
Cue. The two Cannes who flies into Pete and Liz's window one morning while they're sleeping loiters for a minute next to Pete's face and leaves. Pete wakes up early and heads up to the roof. Liz climbs up after him concerned,

17 (31m 51s):
Hey here, what happened? Come here. Look in his credit. Pilot, junk a flower. What's wrong. What's the matter with you? No, no. Ever since I got up nothing strange, kind of. I don't think I explained it to you and everything seems different. Hey, listen. The traffic kids laughing. Yeah. You know why they're laughing because they're not old enough to read the newspaper. You take a look at the front page and then try laughing. The world's has extincting hopeless mess.

17 (32m 35s):
Oh, eat you're sick. You know, sometimes a high fever make you feel this way. I feel great

16 (32m 44s):
At this point, it's worth noting why someone might want to make a film about the need for euphoria in 1968, the front page Liz is talking about would include headlines like Martin Luther king is slain and Memphis. Robert Kennedy dead, the least battled demonstrators in the streets. Also Vietcong storm, us embassy. We were a nation at war, both abroad and with itself with protests and riots in cities, across the country and a presidential candidate running on a platform of law and order. And also according segregationists. And given all that you might ask, what is so bad about feeling good, which is what the mayor and the movie wanted to know in one of the first crisis management meetings with his cabinet, they're running down the symptoms for him and tell them the virus stops people from brooding, but it's worse than that.

17 (33m 32s):
Mr. Mayor, 82%, not only stopped brooding, they stopped smoking. 93% stopped drinking. What's wrong with that in terms of dollars and cents it's disastrous. Our city is facing a drastic loss in income from sales tax. That's ridiculous 47 people dropping the bucket. But if this goes unchecked for a month by mathematical progression and for New York, we'll have the virus. You know what back means? It means a loss in cigarette and liquor taxes more than $180 million, 180 million Brady.

17 (34m 15s):
What are you sitting there? Bored. Get that bird. You're sure.

16 (34m 18s):
Brady is the chief of police capture the bird. They can extract its tissues, come up with a cure and stave off an economic crisis because of course what's the most important thing a politician thinks of in a potential pandemic, how to save the economy. Meantime, Pete, much to Liz's horror has shaved off his beard, cut his hair and is talking about trying to get his old advertising job back, which quick digression interests me because it's the opposite of subversive. Once these nonconformance get infected, instead of dropping out, they drop in He feels so good. In fact, once he figures out, what's quote unquote, wrong with him, he wants to share it with everyone.

16 (35m 2s):
Starting with Liz in an age, when all of us are actively avoiding each other's bodies, like the plague because of the plague. It's wild to watch someone actively trying to spread a virus like this

17 (35m 13s):
One little kids you'll have it too. I don't want it because one of them kissed you like yourself in the morning, or get married, a real married,

16 (35m 21s):
Chasing her around the room

17 (35m 24s):
And have some kids. And my mother-in-law give up all

16 (35m 27s):
Eventually in a completely unbelievable moment that would never have survived to the me too movement. Pete disguises, himself as a nihilist German philosopher and tries to pressure Liz into finally settling for a kiss. He exposes the rest of the gang to they all shave, cut their hair clear, either apartments. The sack climbs out of her sack and the two can remarkably keeps coming back, becomes their pet. They call him amigo. At the same time, the mayor is bundled off to an emergency bunker so that he doesn't get sick. The TV reporter buttonholes him on the way in.

17 (36m 2s):
Tell me, sir, is there any truth to the rumor that there's been a spread in the epidemic epidemic? Why would I only call it an epidemic after all? We only have 180 million cab 47 cases. Well, why then sir, are you visiting the fallout shelter, gusta routine inspection last Friday of every month, but today is Saturday, sir. Wow. Better. Late than never.

16 (36m 24s):
It took me watching the scene a few times trying to figure out why it sounded so familiar. And then I was like, oh yeah,

18 (36m 31s):
The protest outside the white house president Trump was moved for a time to the bunker. Something that hasn't happened since nine 11.

17 (36m 37s):
And I was there for a tiny little short period of time. And it was much more for an inspection

16 (36m 42s):
Anyway, there aren't only 47 cases for long. And that is largely due to the efforts of Pete and Liz and their friends. They wage a campaign to spread the virus intentionally by subterfuge Liz and the SAC volunteered to hand out masks to their fellow citizens, breathing on them first.

17 (37m 0s):
Well, the SAC made sure that every mask was specially treated with the virus. I made sure that nobody got away without I was in charge of transportation assisted by Conrad. Our specialty was a subway at rush hour where the biggest crowds were breathing in. We were there breathing out.

16 (37m 17s):
They breathe on peanuts and feed them to the pigeons. Liz and another friend get jobs as burlesque dancers. Their stick is blowing soap, bubbles into people's faces. And in just a couple of days, the number of cases explodes to about 2 million, about a quarter of the city's population. Cabbies stop in the middle of the street to let pedestrians cross in front of them. Marriage, license applications, flood city hall, Pete, and Liz's among them. Barbershop lines are staggering. People, literally dance in the streets with joy. It's a disaster. Finally, the president's Envoy is helicoptered into New York city to save the day and frankly, to save the movie.

16 (37m 60s):
It's Dom Delawares from blazing saddles, Spaceballs, Robin hood men in tights, Dom Delawares. I love Dom Delawares. He looms so large in my childhood comedy Pantheon. He's atomically funny, even in this very not good film. His character J Gardner Monroe is way more confident and bossy and conceded than he is capable. He snaps his fingers at his aides. He uses the word repeat before repeating himself like a military general. Anyway, he had straight to the bunker and tells the mayor and everyone that if the two can isn't caught before the tally reaches 3 million cases, he's putting plans CC 27 into effect

17 (38m 42s):
Bridges tunnels. Airports will be closed. Repeat cows. One single person will get in or out of New York. Mr. Monroe, do you realize we have 52 conventions coming in next week? Conventions, do you realize what would happen if this got to Washington Republicans agreeing with Democrats and vice versa, this bird could destroy a two party system. The very foundation of our Gregg democracy,

16 (39m 11s):
The tally board is at 2.2 million cases at this point. And this is really the final and maybe most alarming parallel between our story and real life. As Monroe watches, the numbers tick upward, he shakes his head and discussed,

17 (39m 25s):
Tell us Kami Shura sneaky. Oh, come on. You don't think for one moment that this thing is just an accident there yet. And that bird landed on that ship. Its position was longitude 82 latitude 24, 24. Not very far from Cuba. Take my word for it. God buried as a hope knows missile San here, but you know

16 (39m 52s):
Who you know who, you know Castro look

17 (39m 55s):
At the facts. When people get the bug, they suddenly loved the world. Now, if you know who was getting ready to act up again, what would be better? And to give Americans a sense of security, a false sense of security and euphoria, Mr. Monroe, you're not suggesting this virus was artificially produced in a laboratory. Yes. Virus, Purdue laboratory. Yes. Medical impossibility. It just couldn't have happened. That's what I said about the power failure here in New York in 65. And what about the Asian fruit that came straight? I believe you. Me from red China.

16 (40m 33s):
And of course it's satire. And in that way, it's cathartic. But when I got to that scene, it suddenly felt like every other part of the movie had been an escape from what's going on. It's funny that one of the most ludicrous pieces of dialogue is also practically a quote we've heard in the news in 2020. And not as a joke, There's so much more of the story left, but just to a bridge. So they finally managed to isolate the virus amazingly because it's a movie. They develop a vaccine like that day, but they still have to test it out. So they spray it in Pete and Liz's nuptial bed in the hotel room where they're spending their wedding night and set up a hidden camera behind the air van, everybody in the bunker, the mayor, the Fowchee character, J Gardner Monroe, all of them sit and monitor the couple on a big screen as morning arrives.

16 (41m 26s):
Liz wakes up to Pete coming back from an errand. He's still wearing his suit, but he's disheveled, messy hair smoking.

17 (41m 38s):
I didn't hear you. I couldn't sleep. Went out for coffee and cigarettes services probably up and I'll go to breakfast, but Pete, you really should eat some dog.

16 (41m 60s):
Jay Gardner Monroe, watching on the monitor from the bunker is psyched.

17 (42m 4s):
Oh, he's back to normal. It worked out her. She doesn't seem to have changed a bit.

16 (42m 10s):
And I don't know what this says about me, but of all the scenes in the movie. This is the one I remember the most clearly from the first time I saw it, I've actually kind of carried it around all of these years because it's genuinely so sad. Liz looks like her heart is breaking in real time.

17 (42m 28s):
Oh, I want to ask me to go back. Remember what we had remembered. You're kidding yourself. Talk about goodness and kindness. Read the front page and try and find some. I can't go back. I couldn't live that kind of life ever again.

16 (42m 55s):
Teach rugs.

17 (43m 1s):
You pick your poison and no doubt about him. That was certainly a positive reaction.

16 (43m 9s):
I'm positive. There's a happy ending. Liz decides to leave New York and move home. But at the very last minute, she goes to say goodbye to amigo the bird who's in a zoo now. And Pete's there too. They do that romcom running thing. And just like that, they're back together. The city spews the vaccine into the air via factory chimneys and exhaust pipes. And most of New York lives miserably ever after. But some people stay pleasant and uplifted because major plot twist, 50% of the people who seem to be infected actually never got the virus in the first place.

16 (43m 50s):
The joy just rubbed off on them. And Liz was one of those people, which is why she didn't get quote unquote better in the hotel room, which is actually the moral of the movie. That happiness is a choice. But watching the movie during this pandemic, I drew another darker conclusion. Somehow that wiggly weird jolt of recognition I got over and over again, what it felt like was this is how it goes. When faced with a crisis like this, governments will minimize the severity of the danger. They'll value, the wrong things. They'll focus on the economy over people's lives and blame foreigners in an ugly xenophobic way. I'm sure there's a version of America where all might not happen, but we're not living in that America right now.

16 (44m 35s):
And Pete and Liz weren't living in it either. If it's possible for human beings to do the wrong thing, we'll figure out a way where resourceful like that.

0 (44m 51s):
Sean Cole is one of the producers of our show.

13 (45m 0s):
Madaan raises three. I danced with Mr. Clean and <inaudible>

0 (45m 15s):
Three director's cut. So our show today is about people who have a very particular take on some film and the person in this next story finds himself in a situation that not many of us are ever going to be in his ex wife, decided to revisit the part of their wives as their marriage fell apart and make a movie about it. Or anyway, about a couple whose life seems very, very parallel to theirs in lots of ways. This fictional couple gets married real young. They're trying to make it in LA. The woman gets a big break. She leaves the husband at that point. So happened in real life too. The guy's name is will Weldon. Elena baker explains what happened next.

8 (45m 53s):
We'll heard about the movie from some friends when his ex-wife started working on it, the very thought of it made him anxious. His ex Rebecca eventually brought it up with him. She said the film was only loosely based on their marriage, which definitely did not help. He tried to put it out of his head a year and a half later he was scrolling around us.

16 (46m 13s):
And I saw on Facebook people posting the trailer for the movie and being like, Hey, go see this movie. If it's in a theater near you. Cause it was made by Rebecca Addelman and she's great. And so funny. And I saw those popping up and then I just had this moment where I was like, oh, the moment is here. And that was when I was filled with the most dread.

8 (46m 39s):
What were those thoughts

16 (46m 41s):
For me? I was the thing I was the most afraid of is that the movie would portray me accurately.

8 (46m 49s):
Will's candid about his flaws admits he was kind of a dud as a husband Willem Rebecca met when she was 23. He was just 19. They were together for eight years, married for almost five. During that time, he was mostly unemployed though. He eventually started doing part-time work, walking dogs and house sitting. He did some standup, but not very often. Mostly he'd spend his time

16 (47m 12s):
Refreshing Gawker or I was playing PlayStation or I was like, literally just sitting there thinking about how I should be doing something. I wasn't really, I had no actual goals and I wasn't striving for anything that was like, I think the defining quality that like ended our marriage

8 (47m 36s):
Because she was the ambitious one and disciplined. She wanted to be a TV writer. She'd wake up early to work on scripts. And when you watched the trailer, that was in it

16 (47m 46s):
And she is the harder worker and like actually wants things. I got the job, but

8 (47m 53s):
They just hired me as a writer.

19 (47m 56s):
I like this as far as look how hot we're going to be rich. Can I get new Tinder?

8 (48m 2s):
Seeing the trailer made it so much worse. Now we realize the film would probably return him to some very painful times. He'd rather not relive like the way their marriage and

16 (48m 12s):
To me at the time, it really felt like it came out of nowhere. She got home from work and, and she just had like a very, very strange, like, you know, that way people will start, like, there'll be like, so, and then she sat me down and she was just telling me about how she was unhappy in the relationship. And she had been for a long time. And then me being like, gee, I just, I don't know why this hasn't why none of this has come up before I just loved her. And I didn't, I really felt like we should try and give it another chance. And she was like, mm, I don't know. And at a certain point we were talking and I was like, who are we fooling here?

16 (48m 56s):
It really seems like you're done. And this is done. And she was like, okay,

8 (49m 3s):
We'll moved out. After just a week, started crashing on friend's couches. He was devastated. Didn't understand what went wrong. And there were other scenes from their lives that he'd hate to see in a movie.

16 (49m 14s):
I'm sure there will be conversations with like her mom or her sister and her friends. I don't know if they were like, come on girl, you got to dump him. Those will probably be the toughest parts. Cause I imagine those will be things that will be very based in reality.

8 (49m 38s):
The film which is called paper year came out in early 2018. It's got 71% on rotten tomatoes, critics, comment on how authentic the couples love coming undone fields for a while. We'll couldn't bring himself to see it. But a month ago he suggested we watch it together. And I was into the idea I'm going through a divorce right now. It's a very strange time of life. I go on a lot of long walks. I stopped watching television for a year, so I wouldn't avoid my feelings. All I read are self-help books. And when I go to parties, I cornered divorce people and Badger them for details about what this was like for them and how they got through it. Divorce is like my own personal disaster porn.

8 (50m 20s):
So watching a movie about a divorce with the person who had happened to it's all I want to do and will thought it would make it easier for him to see it for the first time. Like

16 (50m 30s):
This is a better way to view it with other people than just like it's three in the morning, I'm alone. The lights are off. I've gotten up in secret and I'm like watching it in the middle of the night so I can just deny having ever seen it. If I want to,

8 (50m 49s):
I met Wilbur. He was staying he's dog, sitting at a sleek Los Angeles home overlooking at canyon furry throw pillows and open layout, pomegranate and lemon trees. Framing your view of the valley. All really expensive. Willa's on high alert. Anytime I move anything, he is careful to put it back exactly where it had been. Okay. Are we ready? It was such a I'm in a slap. The movie opens with the couple Dan and Franny getting married in a courthouse, which will. And Rebecca also did Dan lifts, Frannie and carries her out. The couple starts out really in love.

8 (51m 30s):
Having lots of sex, laughing, kissing in bed is your rational.

16 (51m 37s):
I never had a rash. There's no rash. I don't know what they're talking about. Yeah,

8 (51m 42s):
The guy's job in the film dog sitter. He's quite

20 (51m 45s):
The rascal.

8 (51m 47s):
He's a good boy. Wait, can I just point out the dog? But your house sitting in this movie is literally the same breed of dog, but it's sitting under the table right now.

16 (51m 56s):
Yeah. It's like a Jack Russell Chihuahua mix that he's dog sitting. And I am also dog sitting, a Jack Russell Chihuahua mix.

8 (52m 5s):
In fact, the house in the filmer, Dan and Franny do their dog sitting is a lot like the house will. And I are sitting in at this very moment, similar layout and decor, same view. At least come swimming with me. No, I want to finish this in another scene. Frannie is sitting at her computer, working on a script. Dan is trying to get her attention.

20 (52m 24s):
I'm writing for your dumb job. Swim later.

8 (52m 35s):
The real life version of this would actually play out a little differently, less fun and more sad will. It says he'd do everything he could to get out of her way. When she was working,

16 (52m 45s):
I would just like disappear. Like I'd like wheeled the TV into the bedroom and watch it in there. Just so it wouldn't be distracting.

8 (52m 54s):
The movie, which I'll admit I'm the target audience for? I liked it. Marriage made Franny and happy in the same way. It made me unhappy. Like my life had ended. I spent so much time thinking about whether or not I wanted to be with my husband, but I couldn't tell him that. So we had nothing to talk about because if he asked me what I was thinking, the real answer would have been. I'm not sure if I love you anymore. The scene that will feared of Franny confiding in her mom and friends about all her husband's terrible qualities and everyone saying what they really think of him that never happens.

8 (53m 35s):
There's no scene where anyone bad mouth him, none at all. No one tells anyone to dump the loser. Instead, what happens is much more interesting. Late in the film, Frannie sits down to talk to her mom about her marriage in the scene. She's trying to convince herself to stay with him.

21 (53m 57s):
Everything's fine.

8 (53m 59s):
We'll sits forward in a seat. The day his marriage fell apart, well came home and Rebecca was on the couch crying. She said, she'd been talking to her mom, but he never knew what their conversation was about. He felt like he was getting to see it. Now in the scene, Franny played by Eve Houston talks to her mom played by Andie MacDowell.

21 (54m 22s):
Maybe it's just like them. The first year of marriage is the hardest, you know, like that old saying can a few years I'll look back in it and laugh. They be looking at me that sands book the first year should be your best. There wasn't. None of us would stick around because it only gets harder. Not charter.

16 (54m 48s):
It's it's just like seeing how upset she is. That like sucks. She like felt really bad. Like this is just a bad feeling for someone to have to go through.

8 (55m 1s):
You're seeing how hard it was for

16 (55m 2s):
Her. Well, just, I, I don't think I was incorrect to focus on my own struggles during the whole process of splitting up, but it did kind of prevent me from like, thinking about hers as well. I just didn't have as much of an appreciation for like the difficulty of it. The like misery that goes into that choice. It's it also is a little bit of a relief that it was hard for her. If it had been very easy for her to end things, I would have felt like such absolute trash.

16 (55m 50s):
If just one day she'd come home and be like, you know what net for me bipedal.

8 (55m 55s):
But that's the story you've kind of been telling yourself For years will have been telling himself the same version of their breakup, something he'd sand paper down into this. Rebecca got her big break and then she dumped him out of the blue. He was heartbroken. She was happy and thriving, moving on was easy for her. But watching this, it came flooding back at least a year, maybe more when Rebecca was sad before their breakup, it was like time traveling through all this pain that he deleted from his memory. We asked Rebecca to come talk about her movie with, well, she met us at the house where will was house sitting.

8 (56m 39s):
It's a little awkward. They talk about the weather and traffic in the six years since their marriage ended, they've never had a conversation about it. And for her, understandably, this did not seem like the best way to begin one by talking about her movie, you know,

1 (56m 55s):
It has, they mean this in a certain sense. It has nothing to do with, well, it's its own movie and it's not a documentary. So I kind of object to the idea that we're going to read into this movie and we're going to use it as some kind of like secret code to understand, you know, this real life relationship that existed.

8 (57m 16s):
But also I feel like it like the way you're saying, it's like, oh, it was, I just made a movie. It was just a movie. This is why, why are you reading into this movie? But I feel like there are, it's more, it's more specifically related to an experience that you had.

1 (57m 30s):
Sure. But I'm not, you know, I'm not the first person to do such a thing. I

16 (57m 38s):
Don't,

1 (57m 40s):
But I,

16 (57m 41s):
Y I knew I was like, he's going to dog sit and he's going to have no ambition.

1 (57m 46s):
Yeah. I, I also, I guess I always thought of that character as not someone without ambition, but someone who was afraid, and I'm not that that's not me, like looking at you going, like, that's, that's really who you are.

8 (58m 3s):
We'll tell us Rebecca, what he told me, how the most emotional part of the movie was seeing her side of things, how, how hard it was for her to decide to break up and then to finally do it,

16 (58m 14s):
It felt bad because it was just her trying to justify not ending it or trying to convince herself like it'll get better. And that was like a very emotional thing for me. And the most effecting part of the movie, like hard to watch,

1 (58m 34s):
Is it because it reminded you of that last sort of big conversation we had that was emotional. It,

16 (58m 42s):
I felt bad because it reminded me of like you having to do yourself, kind of all of the recognizing of the problems in the relationship. I ha I just hadn't ever considered the like, journey to coming to that point in that conclusion and like how difficult it is to do that. That's clear. Right. That makes sense.

1 (59m 13s):
Thanks. So, I mean, is this now, like the part of the show where we just talk about our breakup, that you want me to respond? Yeah. I mean, I don't really want to get into it, but that was a really tough period. And those were really kind of like weirdly dark confusing times. And I think that's why I wrote this. It wasn't like I was trying to write this so you would understand something. I was doing it so that I could understand something. I feel like.

8 (59m 40s):
So, I mean, I obviously relate to this because I'm, I'm going through a divorce. I left my husband a year ago and oh, more personal info. My marriage seems really similar to theirs. My husband was mostly unemployed. I was the one who was working all the time. Neither of us were happy and I had to be the one to call it sort of new. And I have to say, I wish he would give me credit. You know, like it was really awful and hard and heartbreaking. And I was tormented by it and it was the hardest decision I've ever made. And I just, I like, this is my dream realization that my partner could ever have, which is to say like, oh my God, like you, it was hard for you to like, do, are you getting that?

8 (1h 0m 29s):
Are you getting I am, am I like projecting?

1 (1h 0m 32s):
I mean, it's just, we've been broken up for how long now? Like over six years. Yeah. I mean, and I haven't been spending much of that time going thinking, oh, I hope will understands my perspective someday. You know, I, I think I've just, I think it's really nice that there, there, maybe there is some kind of mutual middle ground that we're seeing it from, but I think that I've just, it was okay for me to let, will have his own path through it.

8 (1h 1m 22s):
We'll have a story of how things ended that was cemented in his mind. And without the film, he would have gone on thinking it, cherry picking the moments that made him feel the worst. Rebecca says, if you want your ex to understand your breakup the best way, probably isn't to make a movie about it. It's way too much work and money. And the most likely outcome is that they'll hate you for it.

0 (1h 1m 51s):
And the baker is one of the producers of our show. Since we first heard this story, both will and Rebecca, each have gotten married. Rebecca has a new TV show called guilty party on paramount plus will as a comedy album out to find it look for will well-done on Amazon music. The kid Nama stays in the picture. So our show today is about people who watch a film and then have their very particular take on it. Not long ago, I learned about somebody like that. Here she is in a Harry Potter glasses and a onesy with a Griffendor crest on it, giving her a version of the first Harry Potter film.

22 (1h 2m 32s):
We meet Terry age, 10, living in a house, coming up to stand, take your feet wide, arms out and above your head. How suppose Harry lives at number four, privet drive

0 (1h 2m 45s):
The host or yoga instructor. I have a series of videos called cosmic kids. Yoga viewership of these videos skyrocketed during quarantine from about a hundred thousand views a day to about a million. And a lot of her most popular videos for kids are her retelling the stories of children's movies, Milana, or trolls or star wars, and combining the stories with yoga back when we first air today's program at the height of the quarantine, I watched a six-year-old regularly and very happily do yoga for a half hour with these YouTube videos before starting his day of remote learning. First grade, I walked by and I would just get totally caught up in these videos. And I have to say a lot of my pleasure and complete fascination with them was seeing the ingenuity and the Jamie have more uses to incorporate the poses into the storytelling.

0 (1h 3m 33s):
Like for example, a warrior pose for Elsa making snow and ice and frozen forward bands. As Alice in Wonderland leans over to take a drink from the bottle that says, drink me on him. And the wizard of Oz. When the tornado arrives, Dorothy is on her bed in bed post of course.

22 (1h 3m 49s):
Yeah. Look out the window. There's that mean lady from the village, she's riding a bicycle in the sky nine on your backs, Chris, cross your fingers. Your legs and paddle your legs like riding a bicycle. She's cackling like a witch, but she's not riding a bicycle anymore. She's on her broomstick with a black hat. She really is a witch coming into broomstick pose lying. When your tummy's everyone Take your arms down by your side and lift your feet and chest up at the same time going,

0 (1h 4m 31s):
The videos are actually structured like a real yoga class, always starting with a sitting pose and not my stay and always ending with Shavasana resting pose

22 (1h 4m 41s):
All

0 (1h 4m 41s):
The way down. And each of the videos plays like a little half-hour yoga appreciation of movie though. There are kids films. So, you know, Damien more kid friendly tone matches in perfectly, but putting together today's program, we wondered what it would be like if she took on a film that's made for grownups and beloved by grownups, not by kids. So we reached out to her and her husband, Martin, who makes these videos with her and they were into it. And we considered a bunch of different films to turn into yoga, silence of the lambs and pulp fiction and parasite. Before we settled on this film, Timmy and more prepared, this for us,

22 (1h 5m 20s):
Thelma and Louise are best friends. Let's do a hug pose, wrapping our arms around our shoulders. Like we're hugging our best friend. They set out for a weekend away in the mountains to take a break on the way they stop for a cold refreshing drink at a bar Selma dances with a man called Harland, coming into our dancer, pose, standing on one leg. We catch our foot with our hand behind us and lift it as we reach forwards with our other arm. Harlan wants to do more than dancing with Thelma, but she doesn't want to. Louise finds them and is so angry at Harland that she shoots him in the chest, coming into our shooter warrior pose standing one foot forward, one foot back.

22 (1h 6m 10s):
We bend our front knee and open our arms wide Thelma and Louise was off in the car coming into car pose, sitting with legs out long arms forward to hold the steering wheel. Oh dear. What have they done on the road? The women meet a handsome, friendly young man called JD Selma. Rather likes JD and invites him for a sleep over in the morning. JD wakes up coming up to stand reaching our arms up to the sky. We wave and say, hello son. And while Thelma and Louise go to breakfast.

22 (1h 6m 52s):
JD steals all of Louise's money. Oh, dear Selma feels really bad to fix the situation. Selma decides to become a robber and steal all the money from a nearby market. Naughty Thelma. Now the police are after them. Thelma and Louise arrive at the grand canyon coming to stand in our mountain pose, standing with our feet, hip distance arms. By our side, we become a still and strong as the mountains. They take a breath together, soaking up the incredible view and the peace of this place.

22 (1h 7m 41s):
All of a sudden, a helicopter thumbed, his interview, jumping off feet wide and clapping our hands up over our heads. The dust swirls and the sirens scream arms wide. We spin side to side to side that trap Selma looks at her best friend. Listen, let's not get caught. Let's keep going. Louise checks. If Elmer is short, she notes. Louise cups fell Ms. Face and kisses. Her cupping, our faces to feel our cheeks Louise steps on the gas stepping one foot forward as the car screeches forward, Thelma and Louise class pans, the car flies off the cliff coming into our flying pose, lifting up our back leg, balancing on our standing leg and taking our arms out wide.

22 (1h 8m 42s):
We're flying after all that action. We're ready to relax now. So we lie down and let our bodies feel heavy. We close our eyes and take a big deep breath,

Youtube (1h 9m 7s):
Jamie and Mar or yoga videos for kids that makes movies and yoga. But also there are ones which makes video games and yoga and all kinds of other things are@cosmickids.com or find a free YouTube channel. youtube.com, cosmic kids, yoga.

11 (1h 9m 28s):
Dave is this probably lying. And Greg to garble was probably crying. <inaudible> Jackie

0 (1h 9m 51s):
<inaudible> and nor Gill the people put together. Today's show includes on the baker. Susan Burton. Ben Calhoun did a chipper. Sean Cole, Damien grave, Michelle Harris, haunted Jaffe waltz, Seth Windstone Nelson, Marty, Raymond Alyssa ship, Chris roaster. So I'm Tierney and Diane Wu production help on today's rerun came from Chloe Weiner, our managing editors, Sarah Abdurrahman or executive editors. David <inaudible> special. Thanks today to Jason smart. David Selassie hung yen, shank Chan woo queen Longworth, BA Parker, Adrian sheriff, Paul Scheer, Luke Sophie, and Olivia and Cecil Ranieri our website where you can listen to any of our over 750 shows for absolutely free this American life.org. This American life is through Republic, public radio stations by PRX, the public radio exchange.

0 (1h 10m 35s):
This is always your program's co-founder Mr. Troy Maltia. He recently did 23 and me toy had never wondered who his father was and then got some surprising news. It's the mailman I'm Eric Glass back next week with more stories of this American life.

0 (1h 11m 18s):
This week in this American life, somebody was imprisoned at Guantanamo for 14 years. And when he got out, he invited his guards and interrogators to talk incredibly some said, yes.

24 (1h 11m 30s):
You know what bothers me about that? Mamadou those unresolved issues that I wanted to talk to you about, but today I'm running the show. Okay.

0 (1h 11m 41s):
Remarkable conversations this week.