0 (1s):
Hey there, podcast listeners, how are here with a quick program note before we start? If you heard our show last week, you heard one of our producers, Nancy Updyke, and the first episode of her podcast, we were three. And I'm just here to say if you haven't tried the other episodes yet, the story gets so much deeper and more complicated. And I don't know the thing that the show is about the family, it's about the way Nancy shapes and writes this story. It's really like no other show I've heard anybody make. So again, the show's called We We Three from Cereal in the New York Times, wherever you get your podcasts. And with that, here's today's show. Not long ago I went out in the woods in Oregon with this bird expert Noah Stricker looking at birds.

0 (45s):
Every day he goes out for at least an hour. Often it's a lot more on trails around his house that he and his parents cleared back when he was a kid. And I'd never been birding. I had no idea how much a bird watching. You're actually just listening for the bird's foggy out here. When we sit out in the morning, it's still foggy

1 (1m 2s):
Already. I can hear some birds calling though. So there's a spot of toy right calling just behind me. That was a California quail waking up. Did you hear that little? Yeah, that was the sound of a stellar's jay imitating a red-tailed hawk.

0 (1m 34s):
Wait, you know the birds well enough. You can tell when a bird is imitating another bird badly.

1 (1m 41s):
Yeah, it's not a real red-tailed hawk. Stella's js are just kind of bullies in general and they imitate red-tailed hawks as far as I can tell, just to terrorize other little birds in the forest.

0 (1m 54s):
Does it work?

1 (1m 57s):
I don't know. Honestly,

0 (1m 59s):
What's weird about this is if Noah can tell that it's not a red-tailed hawk and he's not even a bird, can't other birds tell? And if they can, why would stellar J keep doing it? To answer that question, Noah tells me about how a couple years ago he bought this powerful microphone, a parabolic microphone that capture bird sounds from a great distance.

1 (2m 22s):
The first bird I ever aimed it at was a Stellar's day sitting up on a branch.

0 (2m 27s):
So we turned on his recorder, put on headphones and waited for it to make some noise.

1 (2m 32s):
And I, I realized it was sitting up there with its beak closed, singing a very quiet whisper song to itself that only itself could have possibly heard because it was so quiet that just blew my mind. I have never listened to birds the same sense. So I think they do make noises just for their own sake. A lot of the time

0 (2m 60s):
Going out birding with Noah is going out with somebody who is insanely knowledgeable about birds. He's written five books about their behavior, poured the world, seeing 6,000 of the nearly 11,000 existing bird species in just one year in 2015. So he knows a lot, but he's also still completely excited about birds. Can't get enough. He told me this story. He goes to Antarctica for months studying penguins and sometimes he gives tours to visitors of the penguin colonies. At first he says they love it,

1 (3m 30s):
They go into the colony, they see the baby penguins, which are super cute. And then like day five or so, people get up in the morning and you're like, Where are we gonna go today? And you say, We're going to a penguin colony. And there's like this look that I've learned to recognize. It's like I've just been to eight other penguin colonies in the past four days. How is this one gonna be any different? But for me, I have never felt that. Look in my whole life, I've never got penguin out.

0 (4m 0s):
He happily goes back to the same comedy with the same woods around his house every single day. Noah says this endless interest in birds began in sort of typical ways. In fifth grade, he first noticed birds for real when his teacher suction copped a bird feeder to the classroom window and he could stare at the birds through the glass just inches away. He started reading the field guide, looking for birds on his own, joined a local birding club. Everybody else in the club, by the way, was in their sixties, seventies and eighties. He was like 12. The one kid is energetic, Birdie, Doogie houser in person. Noah actually he does have kind of a Neil Patrick Harris vibe. But the thing he says that changed him from that kind of leisure time murder into somebody who organized his entire life around it happened because of Turkey Vultures.

0 (4m 47s):
One particular pack of them when he was 16. And he saw this episode of a TV show called The Life of Birds, where David Attenborough goes into a Trinidad and rainforest

1 (4m 57s):
And he has this smelly old piece of steak in his hand. And then he buries the steak under the leaf litter on the forest floor in the rainforest. Let me

3 (5m 9s):
Hide it

1 (5m 12s):
And then backs off. And then they cut. And then 45 minutes later is one this Turkey vulture comes sailing down through the canopy of that forest and flies unknowingly right to the spot where the stake is and digs it up, moves the leaves aside and gets the meat.

4 (5m 34s):
It seems almost

1 (5m 35s):
Unbelievable when I saw that on the life of birds as a high schooler and just immediately had one thought, which was, I gotta try this at home. That is like the best bird feeding idea I've ever seen in my life.

0 (5m 54s):
It seemed incredible to him that he might be able to word these birds that you usually see from so far away. Turkey vultures are shy, hard to get near and he might be able to see them close up. And he thought if David Attenborough got one bird to show up with some old piece of steak, maybe he would improve his odds if his bait with something bigger.

1 (6m 16s):
Imagine how many Turkey vultures I could attract with like a dead deer. There's so many deer here in rural Oregon on the side of the highways and freeways. I can now go out and find a road kill, bring a whole carcass home and see how many Turkey vultures we can attract. But it was kind of hard to find a roadkill as it turned out. It took me like a month to track one down.

0 (6m 42s):
Another way to put that last sentence, If you weren't a 16 year old, very eager to see Turkey vultures up close, it only took a month to find a deer carcass. Noah wrestled the heavy bloated gases, yellow jacket covered putrid smelling deer into the trunk of his Volvo sedan.

1 (7m 0s):
Got home, put the deer in a wheelbarrow, wheeled it out to this very spot where we're standing in this pasture and dumped it.

0 (7m 9s):
So it's like right here where we're standing,

1 (7m 12s):
This is the spot I chose

0 (7m 14s):
At this point in our birdwalk, we are standing with an eye shot at the house that he grew up in. White oaks, not too close. The cow pasture's overgrown of Douglas fur, his white oaks around its edges

1 (7m 23s):
Pasture here. I thought this would be a good spot because you can see it from the sky. It has multiple approach pads from the air so they will be as attracted as possible to this deer carcass.

0 (7m 36s):
It was dark. So we went to bed, no idea if this was gonna work. Gets up the next morning

1 (7m 43s):
And there were Turkey vultures everywhere. They were sitting on these trees right here. There were vultures sitting on the roof of our house, like 10 of them lined up on our roof. There were vultures circling overhead, there were probably 30 or 40 Turkey vultures hanging around the yard. And when I woke up and realized that this had happened, I was so happy I rushed out here and I had set up a little camouflage tarp next to the deer carcass. Where was that? So the tarp was just kind of in this wet grass. So if I come over here, I was hunkered down right about here.

1 (8m 24s):
So if I kind of get down, I was sitting under a tarp with a hole in it and my camera lens sticking out,

0 (8m 33s):
He's maybe 10 feet from the deer, the Turkey. He waited

1 (8m 37s):
And then finally it was like magic. The first one came down and once one came down, they all started just piling down.

0 (8m 46s):
It wasn't like what he imagined. Didn't, he thought it was gonna be chaos, like a pack of lions ripping into a zebra down to this like what unfolded. It was very polite.

1 (8m 56s):
They were just delicately walking around it, standing on top of it and starting to pick at it gingerly. It wasn't like a brute force kind of thing at all. And they were very well behaved. I thought there was almost like a pecking order involved. They knew which birds were going to eat first and they adhered to it. So,

0 (9m 19s):
Oh, so it was very orderly.

1 (9m 21s):
It was an orderly scene of Turkey vultures eating their breakfast.

0 (9m 26s):
Where did they start?

1 (9m 28s):
I thought it was so cool. So the softest parts of the deer, that's where the Turkey vultures would start sticking their heads into. They didn't like I was expecting them to tear a big hole in the side and just go at it. But that's not what happened at all. They actually started by pecking the eyes out. I guess those are the softest part of the deer. So they went for the eyeballs and then they went in and very carefully ate the gums out of the deer, like around its teeth.

0 (10m 1s):
They have to go for the soft parts cuz they don't have very strong feet or beaks. Instead, a Turkey V just kind of sticks its head up inside the body. It's headed bald and red with no feathers,

1 (10m 13s):
Which is handy for sticking inside of carcasses and not getting your feathers all messed up.

0 (10m 18s):
The Turkey vultures next, started eating around the wound on the deer's shoulder from where it got hit on the highway. Took turns eating around there till they got a big enough opening to get access to the chest and guts and everything else. Not many people, Noah would go off in the mornings, do tennis camp and other kids stuff, which I thought was so fun. Like back to his tarp for hours and hours.

1 (10m 36s):
I don't know how many hours I spent out here that week, but it was full afternoons pretty much every day, all week long. So I got to see the whole process at the beginning the deer carcass was relatively fresh and then gradually it was stripped away. And by you know, day five or day six, they were starting to disassemble the skeleton that was pretty much picked clean. It was like being drawn into another world that exists in this world that we are very seldom a part of.

1 (11m 19s):
Being so close to these birds that don't normally allow us to get that close to them was like passing through some kind of force field or something and emerging on their side of the divide and feeling that.

0 (11m 35s):
Yeah, and their world is not the same as ours.

1 (11m 38s):
No. And it has existed for much longer than ours has. I mean, humanity is not that old. Turkey vultures have been around for quite a lot longer than we have, man. When you stare into the eyeball of a Turkey volter and it blinks its third eyelid that birds have that is just unsettling. They are strange, strange animals. They just have this weird, very reptilian vibe.

0 (12m 14s):
Before this, of course he'd seen lots of birds, but it was like checking them off a list. Saw this one and that one that he read about in the field guide. He'd never just stared at one group of birds for so long and watched how they related to each other for what they did.

1 (12m 31s):
Turkey vs. Are what I would call my spark bird for a birder. A spark bird is the one you see usually in some kind of unexpected situation that grabs you in a way that you haven't been grabbed before by birds and turns you onto a wavelength that you haven't been turned onto before in the bird world.

0 (12m 58s):
Like people would talk about, what's your spark bird

1 (13m 1s):
Birders when we get together and go out on field trips? Yeah. Or you'll have to say, Oh yeah, what was your spark bird? Oh that's a cool one. What was your spark bird? And you ask just about any bird out there, what their spark bird is. And they'll probably have an answer for you. For me that week, watching these vultures being in their world just gripped me. It changed my life.

0 (13m 28s):
That week in the pasture by his house has basically turned into his entire life. Thanks to the spark birds. None of us here at our program had ever heard the phrase spark bird before. We talked to Noah and we thought there must be other situations where bird arrives and changes everything. And we went looking for stories like that. We found a bunch, a whole flock of them in all kinds of settings. And that is what we are very pleased to bring you today from WBEZ Chicago. It's this American life. I'm a glass, stay with us Aqua don chicken out.

0 (14m 13s):
So one thing about the birds in this show, the spark birds, is that they don't know how consequential they are. You know what I mean? They're just gone about their day picking at worms and seeds, unaware of the lives they're transforming. I'm fairly sure that that's true for the bird. In this first story though, we were unable to confirm that independently with the bird. One of the people in the story is Carmen Milito back when was 13 in 1960, growing up on Coney Island in New York. One day she met this boy on the beach. Even today when she talks about him, the words she uses are gorgeous, beautiful.

5 (14m 48s):
He had just the cutest face that I've ever seen. Dimples. You know, he just, he just swed me.

0 (14m 55s):
He swooned her. That's how they did it back in the sixties. Girls were constantly swooning back then over the Beatles and Elvis and whatnot. Anyway, she and the guy talked for 10 or 15 minutes. He drills off. Three years later she's at a social club in some random neighborhood far from Coney Island. There's music playing, people dancing. And the boy walks in fate. He's wearing a leather jacket, slick back hair his teenagers did back then. Carmen points him out to her friend

5 (15m 25s):
And she looks over and she goes, Oh my God, he's gorgeous.

0 (15m 29s):
Carmen goes up to him. The guy buys her a drink. They talked for a long time, asked her out. She's 16, his name is Bobby. She's excited, but she's too ashamed at the apartment where she lives with her mom to pick her up there. It was run down, she said under the elevated train tracks. So she hasn't pick her up at her sister's place. Her mom is furious about this.

5 (15m 54s):
She was you, you, you're not proud of, of what we have here. I worked my ass off all my life. And you're embarrassed,

0 (16m 2s):
Kyron tries to tell her that she just wanted to make a good first impression. Says, don't worry, she's gonna have him come to the house when he picks her up for the second date.

5 (16m 9s):
So that day was a Saturday and I told my mom that he's coming again to pick me up and she put this little face on. So what do you want me to do? You know, put up the flags. So she, she said, Well, tell me about this boy. What, what's going on with him? So I said, Well, he's an Italian guy. He lives in Benson Bensonhurst. I said, He happens to be Sicilian. And she stopped. She said, No. And I said, What do you mean no, No, you are not going out with any Sicilian boys. My mom is from, from Naples. So she, she had married my dad who was Sicilian.

5 (16m 51s):
And he, he turned out to be a real dead beat of a man. He, he deserted her when she was pregnant to me for the babysitter actually. So, wow. So when she heard that he was Sicilian, she thought that life was repeating itself. And the thoughts that came into her mind were like, you know, he's gonna desert you. And, and I said, Please, you're jumping the gun here. It's the second day. Don't you know, don't always says I don't care. I don't. So I said, Mom, please,

0 (17m 24s):
Ky tells just go out and do the shopping. Well, I clean the house. Her mom says, Fine. She goes out, comes back a little while later with a large cardboard box.

5 (17m 33s):
And in this box is a chicken.

0 (17m 35s):
The chicken of course is the spark burden. This story, the one that's gonna change everything for Carmen.

5 (17m 41s):
And it's scratching that box all over the place. And I looked at it and I said, What is that? And she goes, It's a chicken. And I said, What are you gonna do with it? And she goes, I'm gonna kill it and, and then eat it. And I said, You never killed a thing in your life. What are you talking about? You can't have this thing here now. He's gonna be here in minute and you've got a life. Chick is going, think we're farmers or something. I just went off and she goes, Oh, don't be ridiculous. I'll, I'll put the, the, the chicken in the bathroom. Now the bathroom was right next to the kitchen. So you close the door and you hear everything, everything in that

0 (18m 20s):
Bathroom. And so do you figure like, oh this is her revenge on me. Like she thought I was ashamed to bring him to the house. And so here's what she's doing. She's brought a live chicken in.

5 (18m 30s):
Oh yeah, I just, I said that, I says, I said, You getting back at me for something and what are you doing? What? She goes, Oh, don't be ridiculous. She said, Just go, go, go finish getting dressed. Don't worry, he's in the bathroom. He won't hear a sound. You're precious, Bobby.

0 (18m 43s):
Okay, before we go any further, I just wanna say the rest of this story is about whether this chicken actually does get killed and eaten for food or not. And I know that there are people out there who find the killing of chickens for food to be offensive and cruel. The people in this story, like so many people do not feel that way. All right, back to Carmen and her mom.

5 (19m 4s):
Well, as we're arguing, we hear footsteps coming in down the hallway and then there's a knock on the door. So she said, Go ahead, open the door very calmly. And it was like so, such an assurance about her. Like she had a plan

0 (19m 25s):
And walks Bobby, well dressed handsome as always, polite calls Carmen's mom, Mrs. Na Castro, call me Ida. She says, and escorts him into the kitchen. She offers him a drink. You're allowed to drink, aren't you? Bobby was 19. But it's a weird move with the boy who's gonna be driving your daughter. Carmen wonders what she's up to.

5 (19m 46s):
So he sits down and she gives him a drink of scotch and she asks questions like, Where are you from? What do you do now? In the meantime, that chicken is scratching its way out of that box in the bathroom. And he was so kind. Never said a word. He heard it. You could see it on his face cuz he'd look around like, where's the sound coming from? Oh my God, I just wanted to die. And every time the chicken would, would graft at the box, I would cough or I would say, you know, we, we gotta go. You know, we gotta go. And my mom would say, Just a minute, she had this way of saying, Just a minute, just a minute.

5 (20m 30s):
Hold your horses, Bobby, come on. Finish your drink. How about another one?

0 (20m 35s):
Okay, J just a word right now about Carmen's mom, Ida and what she's doing here. Ida has been described to me as kind of scrappy and sharp, witted and willful. Somebody who had to figure out how to make her way in the world. And if she wanted to convince you to do something, apparently she was very hard to resist. In the summer, she would pick up extra money as a barker on Coney Island, urging pastors by to come in and buy tickets for the wax museum. She had worked low paying factory jobs all her life on her feet all day. Starting when she was 13, when her parents pulled her outta school to go to work and make money for the family. When Carmen's dad left her for the babysitter, she lost all her friends. Her family turned back on her and she had to fend for herself or to survive.

5 (21m 15s):
And she was a very sensitive woman. She would wear her heart on her sleeve,

0 (21m 21s):
Very protective of Carmen, who was the baby of the family. And with this boy in her kitchen,

5 (21m 27s):
She just saw Sicilian. That's all she saw, right? And she had a plan. She was like a little crazy as a fox. And then she said, Wait a minute, I have to ask Bobby something. Tell me, Bobby, did you ever kill a chicken? And he looks around, he looks at me and he goes, Why is there a problem? And she said, No, no problem. She said, I just wanna know if you ever killed a chicken. And so he's looks at her and says, you know, he lied. He said, Sure, yeah, I killed a chicken, you know? She goes, Oh, I knew you did.

5 (22m 7s):
And she goes, Bobby, listen, do me a favor, honey. I have this chicken in the bathroom. Would you do me a big favor? Can you kill it before you leave? Well, you could have heard a pin drop in that room. It was silent. And I said, Mom, what? No. And I'm screaming, I'm carrying on. No, you can't do this. He's all dressed. He's, she goes, Don't worry about it, I'll get him in apron. And then she grabs the chicken, she puts the apron on him, she goes in the bathroom and she puts the box with the chicken in on the table. And she says here. So he opens the box up and this chicken's running around the box and he closes the flap right away.

5 (22m 50s):
And he goes, I don't know if I can do this. And she goes, You said you could don't disappoint me now, Bobby, you know, please, you promised. And he's like looking at me and I'm looking at him and all of a sudden I started to say, Will he do this? And he closes the flaps and he said, God did, do you have a knife?

0 (23m 14s):
Okay, I'm gonna spare you the details of how he killed the chicken without getting blood on his white bawa shirt or anything else. But it was swift and surprisingly deft for somebody who had never killed a chicken in his life.

5 (23m 25s):
And I was like, in shock, I, I couldn't move. And my mother was dancing all over the kitchen. You are a gem. I think I'm gonna love you. You come back on Sunday and I'm gonna make you the best chicken a statutory you ever ate in your your life. She gives him a towel to wipe his hands. She was like treating him like some god of sorts. I mean, she was like in heaven. And she looked at me and she gave me this big wink and a, you know, thumbs up sign. Kind of like, it's like you have a winner here.

5 (24m 6s):
She goes, Go ahead, go out now and have a ball. She said, You'll come back on Sunday. And he, he said, I, I I think so. Yeah, I guess. And, and, and we left and did not say a word to each other

0 (24m 25s):
You, And he didn't say a word to each other about,

5 (24m 27s):
Not a word. A word was not spoken. We sat in the car and I just stared out. He stared out and we started to laugh and that, that was the end of the conversation. Never again was it mentioned. What happened was we continued to go out and see each other. And fifties, six years later, we're still married. This is the man of my dreams.

5 (25m 8s):
We're still married after 56 years.

0 (25m 17s):
Carmen says, asking him to kill the chicken. It was a test.

5 (25m 21s):
Any other guy would've said, You're crazy lady, I'm not gonna kill this chicken. She believed that that would've been his response. But he, he just, I guess, was in love with me and just said, I gotta do it for her, you know?

0 (25m 41s):
Oh, that's what the test proved. It proved his feelings about you.

5 (25m 44s):
Yeah. Oh yeah. Oh totally. He killed something for me. She knew that if he wasn't the guy for me, he would've never done this.

6 (26m 0s):
I, you know, I I never really looked at it that way. I looked at it like my manhood was being questioned.

0 (26m 6s):
This of course is the man in question. Bobby, the Bobby was the nickname. As he got older, he switched to using his given name Sebastian.

6 (26m 15s):
You know, like, did I have the stones to kill a chicken? I was 19 and see when you're 19 you're insecure. And she, she sort of like threw a test, which I thought maybe was some primitive ritual that came from the village that, you know, they were from Naples, you know, from Sorento. And maybe that's how they did it in Sorento. Oh my God. And they devised themselves. Please

0 (26m 39s):
Call it primitive. Don't say primitive. Yeah. I don't wanna get letters from people who,

6 (26m 44s):
Yeah. Anyway, I didn't want to be embarrassed in front of, I didn't want Carmen to think of me as not being manly. Yeah. Enough, you know, to do something like that. Yeah. But at that point, I don't think I did it out of love.

0 (26m 57s):
Yeah. I mean it's funny cuz because I think, I think they both took it, or at least her mom took it as a sign of like, Oh, you really like her. And it's funny to think that she got it wrong.

6 (27m 8s):
Well, I did like her. I mean I, I was crazy about her, but I didn't, I didn't say I'm gonna do this for Carmen.

0 (27m 15s):
It was just her second date, after all. Would you have done that for any girl's mom?

6 (27m 20s):
You know, our, I can't think of any other girl's mom would ever ask me to

0 (27m 25s):
Do

6 (27m 25s):
That. She was, she was very wily and a good person. I mean, I loved her. I loved her dearly.

0 (27m 36s):
When her was 16 and her mom put off this plan, she was horrified. But now, you know, she's two decades older than her mom was that day in 1963 when this happened. And she has kids and grandkids of her own and she sees her mom's actions that day very differently.

5 (27m 52s):
I adore her for doing that. I, I could cry wanting that night back. I, the, the bravery of her to do something like that. I, I, I can't imagine her doing anything else. Actually she wasn't a talker. She wouldn't have sat down with him and said, Listen, you know, I want you to respect my door. She wasn't gonna say anything like that. She was gonna give him a test.

0 (28m 26s):
And in that test, even though she was wrong, about whether Sebastian had killed that bird out of love for Carmen, if you look at her mom's bigger conclusion that he was gonna be a reliable man for Carmen, he was gonna stick around and be there for Carmen half century later. It's probably safe to say she got that part right coming up. The rarest bird species in the world so rare that only one family in Massachusetts has ever spotted them until right now even knows about them.

0 (29m 7s):
That's in a minute. From Chicago Bubble Radio when our program continues.

7 (29m 12s):
I'm Kevin

8 (29m 13s):
Ru. And I'm Casey Newton. We're the host of Hard Fork, a show from the New York Times.

7 (29m 17s):
Casey, you and I have covered the tech industry for like the last decade and it really feels like Silicon Valley is shifting now toward these new ideas like crypto and the metaverse and ai.

8 (29m 28s):
It feels like a real turning point. We're gonna talk about these stories. We're gonna bring in other journalists, newsmakers, whoever else is involved in building this future. To explain to us what's changing and why it all matters.

7 (29m 39s):
Listen to Hard Fork

8 (29m 41s):
Wherever you get your podcasts.

0 (29m 44s):
It's this American guy from Ira Glass, today's show Spark Bird. We have stories of spark birds, who are the birds who get it all started for somebody. The birds that make you see things differently. Today's show is a rerun from last year and if you're just tuning in, we began our program today with Noah Stricker who's the author of the thing with feathers and other books and bird behavior. Somebody who sparked Bird was the Turkey vulture and one of our producers, Chloe Weiner and I spent hours chomping around the woods with him in Creswell, Oregon, which was hours of actually doing the thing that Today Show is about garing to see things differently through birds. And I just wanna play you a little more of this because so much of what Noah told us along the way was new to me and Chloe.

0 (30m 25s):
Like for instance, Noah was telling us how last summer, late one night he was home and he heard this bird sound he'd never heard before.

1 (30m 33s):
I don't even know. I was like, and I came running out here with my flashlight cuz it was dark cuz I had no idea what it was and tracked it down and it was a fledgling screech owl sitting on a branch

0 (30m 47s):
And, and it's just like it hadn't learned yet how to make the proper screech out noise.

1 (30m 52s):
Yeah, birds babble just like human babies do. Scientists will call it sub song and have these other technical terms for it, but it's just birds learning how to sound like birds.

0 (31m 3s):
Birds baled like human babies do. I didn't know, I honestly never think about the fact that I live in the middle of a whole world of birds. I don't notice 'em, I don't wanna hear them singing. But of course no cannot stop himself from hearing them and instantly recognizing that that's a Pacific ren, that's a chestnut back chickie or whatever. And he doesn't just hear the bird sounds when he is walking around outside

1 (31m 30s):
Becoming a birder ruins Hollywood movies for you forever. Because whatever bird sounds are in the background in the soundtrack, whether they're just natural or whether they've dubbed them in even they're never the birds that would be in the place that the movie is set at the season that it's set in. And it drives me nuts. I mean, how hard would it be to put the proper bird sounds in there?

0 (31m 50s):
Like what's a movie that this happened to you in?

1 (31m 53s):
Well just yesterday I saw the movie Spencer, the New Lady Die movie. They had red wing black birds in the background. This is supposed to be what, like Europe in the UK somewhere. Red Wing Blackbird don't live in Europe. That's a whole continent away from where they would actually live. They had stellars js in the background and all kinds of North American species. So obviously this movie was filmed by North Americans who were dubbing in North American birds into a completely wrong background and just the lengths to which they go to get all the, you know, historical details and period pieces accurate, the, you know, shape of the headlight that no one is ever gonna know honestly when you watch the movie and yet the bird sounds are all over the map.

1 (32m 38s):
And there, there are so many birders out there like me who know what they're listening to. That's not unusual.

0 (32m 47s):
This I guess would be the downside of having a bird open your eyes to something about the world that most people don't notice. It wouldn't be hard to fix this. Noah says there are archives with most bird sounds, movie sound editors. Noah would love to hook you up, drop a line he says. But of course the problem is the world doesn't care about birders. Hollywood knows that they'll continue to show up at their factually inaccurate movies and stream their error ridden television shows cuz where else they gonna go when they need to watch something that's indoors and not wild, alive and feathered.

0 (33m 30s):
Back to a scrub is a bird that can't get no love from me. So we now am turned to a spark bird that started a political fight, A fight that has lasted for a very long time concerning one state's official state bird Bema Wmi tells the tale.

9 (33m 48s):
The thing about an official state bird is that it just really doesn't matter. I say that with no intended disrespected birders across the nation. Some of my best friends are. But think about it. When was the last time you sat down and truly considered the c tailed fly catcher? Who is the avian embodiment of the state of Oklahoma? Exactly. It's absurd. A state bird has nothing to do with the state's gdp, for example. It doesn't tell us how happy the children are. It makes no one's life materially better or worse. And yet in Florida the debate about which flying animal deserves the title of official state bird has been ongoing for more than two decades.

9 (34m 33s):
The state bird means nothing, but somehow in Florida it's come to me in a hell of a lot. Florida was actually one of the first dates to designate a state bird back in 1927. It was probably a simple choice. The Northern Mockingbird is a good bird as birds go, it likes to sing. It has an incredible talent for mimicry and with its gray coloring, it's cute. Here's the thing though, the Northern Mockingbird is the official bird of another four states besides Florida. It's actually the third most popular state bird behind the northern cardinal and the Western Meadow luck.

9 (35m 12s):
After 72 years, some people had had enough of this spread thin state bird enter the spark bird of this story. The Scrub Jay, the Florida Scrub Jay is the only bird on the planet that is found only in Florida. It's a sturdy looking bird with a dull blue head and wings. It's unclear exactly why the late Republican rep Howard Futch was such a champion for the scrub Jay. But in in 1999, he co-sponsored a bill for it to become the state bird. Maybe it was the fact that Futch represented Brevard County, which used to have the highest number of scrub jays in the state. But I think he just liked the bird as he put it. It's got good family values, it's kind and it's a bird that likes people.

9 (35m 57s):
Scrub. Jays do something called cooperative breeding, which means that each nest has an adult pair, but it also has helpers. Usually the older siblings of the newest J babies who help feed the young and defend territory. Very different in Fe's opinion from the Mockingbird. The Mockingbird. A lot of people love that sucker, he said, But it's pretty mean. There's nothing human beings cannot make about themselves. Even birds. And the fight over the Florida state Bird very quickly became loaded with familiar political tropes on the side of the status quo.

9 (36m 40s):
The side of the incumbent Mockingbird was one of Florida's most famous seniors, Marion Hammer. Hammer is a longtime lobbyist with the National Rifle Association and the architect of Florida stand Your Ground law and she is no fan of the Florida Scrub Jay. In her committee testimony, Hama dismiss the bird as a thieving scrounger in the strongest possible terms. They eat the eggs of other birds. She said that's robbery and murder. And in response to the scrub Jay's alleged friendliness exemplified by the wade eats outta human's hands. She had a rebuttal. Begging for food isn't sweet, it's lazy and it's a welfare mentality.

9 (37m 22s):
The response from the other side was just as harsh Democrat rep Mark Packard called the Mockingbird, an obnoxious plagiarizing and promiscuous bully state rep Futch and the scrub. Jay had the Orman Society on their side and they also had a chunk of Florida citizens school children. Thousands of them signed a petition in support of the scrub. Jay Hammer had a hunch about who was behind these passionate school children. She suggested they had been influenced by environmentalists trying to secure extra protections for the scrub Jay. It's adults hiding behind impressionable children.

9 (38m 3s):
She said if they get it on the endangered list, you can kiss your property rights goodbye. This had begun as an argument about something that means nothing. But now it had become an argument about the biggest things. It would've been neater if the camps were strictly a Republican versus Democrat. But bird choice and party affiliation didn't always align. The choice of state Byrd became a proxy referendum about what traits Floridians should find admirable depending on which side you were on. The mocking bird was either a stand-in for rugged, talented individualism or it was a raucous bully. And the scrub jay seen through one lens as nurturing family values and sweet enough to paddle around with humans somehow also became the poster child for a reliance on big government and its handouts.

9 (39m 0s):
I'm very familiar with irrational and hyperbolic debates about regional foreigner in my own home country, the uk. We are not above turning benign animal behavior into weird politicking. There has long been a PR battle waged between the indigenous and endangered red squirrel. By some accounts, a noble and scrappy creature. And the gray squirrel, a larger invasive American interloper who has ideas well above its station. It has brought forth every type of nativist narrative you can imagine. In a debate in the house of Lord. In 2006, Lady Saul, tune of Abernathy likened the red squirrel to quiet well behaved people who do not make a nuisance or an exhibition of themselves or commit crimes.

9 (39m 46s):
And so do not get themselves into the papers in the vulgar way gray squirrels do. When I was at university, I swear I read tabloid stories that basically compared gray squirrels to American gis during and after World War ii Overfed Oversexed. And over here since 2008, Prince Charles has been the patron of the Red Squirrel Survival Trust. In 2017, the prince backed a government plan to sterilize grace squirrels using nettella as bait. That's a step beyond what Floridians are doing. They've yet to weaponize any spreads or condiments in their fight to choose a state bird.

9 (40m 30s):
A state bird whose anointment will make no one's life worse or better.

0 (40m 43s):
She fears no birds and respects only one the crow. Act three. We need to talk about birdly. Okay, I just wanna say a word about what I find interesting about this next story. I think every couple there are the things that you share and talk about with each other. And you know, then other things you don't share so much, but each couple has to kind of invent or discover the territory of stuff that they have in common and where they meet up. And the more stuff in that territory, probably the better. Cuz the more chances you have to connect and feel close and all that. The couple in this story, they had their stuff. They were, you know, even raising kids together, which is obviously a huge thing like that.

0 (41m 24s):
But as the kids got older, the couple invented this whole other original common ground for themselves. Also, there's birds Sean call explains,

10 (41m 37s):
Before I get into what this story's about, I just wanna say that the couple in question, Peter and his wife Mattie, are normal people. You

3 (41m 45s):
Must be Mattie. I am. Hi to meet you. Great to meet you. How

11 (41m 48s):
Are you? I'm

10 (41m 49s):
Thank you. Their house in Northampton, Massachusetts is so normal. It's beige, four bedrooms upstairs, one for each kid. Peter and Maddie cram themselves into the attic for a long time. They're a blended family. Peter came to the marriage with two sons. Maddie has a son and a daughter. All of them are grown doing well. Now it's just the parents at home. Actually, Maddie works as a lawyer, recently won a big case through the Innocence Project.

11 (42m 11s):
So I do trial work and I do appellate work. So I

10 (42m 15s):
Actually, Peter is a professional musician as toward Europe playing B arrangements on a special guitar. He designed,

12 (42m 21s):
You know, like I've been an artist all my life. I'm really, you know, I think about, I'm really grateful for that.

10 (42m 26s):
Like for more than 10 years now, a sizable number of their conversations with each other. Concern a family of imaginary birds with whom they live. Six birds who do not exist and yet each have names and distinct personalities, successes and failures. Most of them have corresponding stuffed animals associated with them. Peter and Maddie might spend more time talking about these birds than about anything in reality. The birds' lives resemble those of grade school children. They attend bird academy right there on the bird bus. And they're kind of little menaces, always accidentally spilling things on themselves and throwing parties at the house when Peter and Maddie are away.

10 (43m 6s):
Yet they somehow also med in the Olympics and recorded a Grammy award-winning record. Here's Maddie. It's

11 (43m 12s):
Odd. I mean I know it's odd upon reflection because it's like this Byzantine storyline now. It's every day and it's like woven all through the day. And for example, if I was doing something at work, like a difficult meeting with a client at a jail or something, then afterwards when I would call Peter to say, you know, I'm on my way home or whatever, then he would say, How, how are the birds? Like how did they do? And then I would say terrible usually. Usually the birds do terribly.

11 (43m 52s):
So the birds had a tantrum and the car with my colleague, the birds were rude to the investigator. Like that's sort of how it arises a lot, is asking how the birds managed, what we were managing. Sort of

10 (44m 11s):
Like when Peter went up to Maine to visit his son Chester, who just fixed up an old boat that he was sailing and living on, which Peter's really proud of him for having accomplished.

12 (44m 20s):
And of course when I'm on the phone with Maddie, calling her from up there, it's like, well the birds didn't really like the boat. The boat is really small. It's really, they thought it was gonna be like the boat on succession, on the TV show succession, the nice yacht.

10 (44m 37s):
Which by the way is not how Peter felt about the boat. The views and opinions of the birds do not necessarily reflect those of Peter and Mattie. Sometimes they do, but it's not that simple. It's more like they're this messy Greek chorus that always has to be accounted for and factored into almost every experience. And it's like a very elaborate running joke. They like seeing what each other's gonna come up with next, poke fun at each other via the birds

12 (45m 2s):
Push and pull and go, No, the birds don't do that. The birds do this. You know, they're, what are you talking about? You know, the birds hate skating, you know? And it's like, you know, Wait, what about birds on ice? The

11 (45m 12s):
Birds have an annual event called Bird Fest,

12 (45m 16s):
Which is always canceled at the last minute.

11 (45m 19s):
At the last minute it will turn out. They didn't really have a permit. They hadn't really spoken to Beyonce's manager.

10 (45m 27s):
The throwing out ideas in coming to a consensus is a lot of how they built the bird world, for instance. So the birds are really into milkshakes. Their bird mobiles are outfitted with special shake machines. But they filed a lawsuit against Shake Shack after one of them got his head feathers caught in a ceiling fan. Which

12 (45m 44s):
Is really a shame because the birds love Shake Shack,

11 (45m 48s):
But they're, they're not banned from Shake Shack

12 (45m 50s):
And they're not banned. But it must have soured them on the whole Shake Shack experience.

11 (45m 56s):
I, I don't think so, honey. They got a ton of money and they still can get shakes there.

12 (46m 2s):
Okay, Yeah,

10 (46m 3s):
It's important to say too, I thought is this is the first time Peter and Maddie have ever talked about the birds in front of anyone, but not exactly other than their kids. And Peter's therapist once or twice in passing, they've never mentioned the birds to a single soul until now. It's just too out there. They told me and too hard to explain, which means this is also the first time they've had to answer any questions about the birds. They've never examined any of this even in private. So when I ask them something like why they do it or what they get out of it, they really had to puzzle together those answers in real time as I sat with them.

12 (46m 39s):
I'm not trying to like, yeah, I'm not trying to sell it, you know what I'm saying? I'm just reporting it that it's happening here.

10 (46m 52s):
And the whole thing with the birds, it isn't just frivolous, it's actually been helpful in the family in some ways and hurtful too, which I'll get to. But just to say how it began. So the birds first entered their lives about a dozen years ago when Mattie's daughter Peter's stepdaughter ever bought Maddie, a little stuffed toy monster. Technically it was something called an ugly doll, but to Maddie it looked like a bird. Eva was only about 12 years old at the time,

11 (47m 19s):
And I do think it was the first thing that she had ever bought from me. So it was a very sweet gift and I just loved it so much. And then I gave it this silly name Birdley.

10 (47m 36s):
So Birdley was the spark bird, the bird that sparked the capital B birds. Mattie started bringing Burley everywhere. Birdley rode in the car with her, she took 'em on vacation. Peter would idly toss him to the other side of the bed and Maddie would be like, Hey, careful. And this hadn't dawned on Maddie until we talked about it, but this was around the same time that her custody arrangement with her ex-husband was changing. Used to be the kids would never be away from her for more than three days at a time. But then they switched to one week on, one week off.

11 (48m 5s):
And in the beginning the week that I did not have them felt like an eternity. I couldn't, you know, it was a challenge. I think it was fair and I think it was the right thing to do, but that was a period that I was missing my children. So I think that may have been why I got super attached even to the bird that she gave me.

10 (48m 27s):
And very quickly, Birdley grew personality of his own adventurous, irresponsible, Macia Veian. He'd take out credit cards and Peter and Maddie's names Neglective file his taxes for five years. But Mattie would do on him nonetheless.

12 (48m 43s):
At first I found Burley really annoying. She just got so exaggerated about how like precious he was and how, and I would just be like, Okay, all right, you know, like please. And then somewhere I crossed some line and moved over into, you know, well he doesn't, you know, he didn't do a thing to help do the dishes or something, you know, like participating in it, you know? And then she'd be like, What? He had to work on his presentation for school tomorrow. And it's like, and

10 (49m 19s):
We would talk, the psychologist and marriage expert John Gottman talks about how couples are always sending each other these little requests for attention. Subtle. Like wow, would you look at that sunset? Sometimes the other partner just shrugs. But in some couples the more contented ones, the partner responds enthusiastically like, Oh wow, yeah, it's beautiful. I think the birds are a request like that. Sometimes the birds will even swoop in and help them communicate something that's difficult to express. Like this one time, he's fine now, but Peter was deathly ill, he had a bacterial infection in his spine and they were driving back from a doctor's appointment where they'd gotten some bad news.

10 (49m 59s):
The mood in the car was dire. And after saying nothing for a long time, Peter goes, Oh, we have to stop at the mall. The birds wanna go to the mall.

12 (50m 11s):
I mean, what else are you gonna say? Right? Yeah, I remember it as the best way for me to say something like, Don't worry about me. I mean you can't, you can't tell her not to worry, but, but you can talk about the birds. What about the birds? They wanna go to the mall.

10 (50m 37s):
And then here's the way in which the birds have not been so great for the family. Again, there are four kids and they each had somewhat different responses to bird world. The oldest Torson thought it was kind of funny and he left for college anyway, not long after it started, Hank was indifferent except that it is some kind of code that his parents used to communicate. Chester, the very youngest of the four thought it was annoying and not funny. And then there was ever who again gave Mattie her mother, the doll in the first place. And who was the most aggrieved?

13 (51m 12s):
Oh, I was definitely jealous.

10 (51m 13s):
This is Eva, she's 25. Now

13 (51m 15s):
I was jealous of burley. I don't know if I felt forgotten, but I was definitely jealous.

10 (51m 20s):
Now, as the youngest of Mattie's two kids, Eva was used to being the baby doted on showered with affection and suddenly she had to bear witness to this overwhelming overweening geyser of praise and attention. Her mom gave birdly and the other birds.

13 (51m 35s):
The theme that bothers me the most is like if you say something about your life and then the birds have their own thing about their life. So it would be like if you got an A, the birds either got an a plus plus or they got an F minus, but mom is still somehow like more interested in their F minus than she is in your A, which I'm sure wasn't true. But that's just how it felt at the time. So like that's really when the intense dislike of birdley began to

10 (52m 7s):
Build and build and build and build until sometimes it exploded.

13 (52m 12s):
I don't think I was clear enough that I wasn't kidding when I am saying that the birds thing bothers me. I'm not playing along with the bird universe where nobody likes the birds and they're sticky and annoying and they're failing out of classes and their teachers are reporting them. I really, really don't like it. Like I couldn't say that or I wasn't saying it right. So I think that it was like, it always felt like it was playing along until I had a tantrum. And I would scream at her that they're not real, which I think did hurt her feelings.

10 (52m 42s):
And looking back on it now, Eva says her mother was giving her an appropriate amount of attention, affection, praise, all of that. But back then she really felt like she was in competition for it. And after all, the birds didn't deserve it because you know them not existing at all. Anyway, for the first couple of years it was just birdly, just the one bird. And then this one fateful day, Eva took action.

13 (53m 6s):
I'd had enough and I stole him and I hid him between the box spring and the mattress of the bed that I slept on. And then I forgot that I did that. I honest to goodness forgot that I had done that.

11 (53m 22s):
I felt panic. I tore the house apart. I mean, I felt the panic that you feel if you have an indoor outdoor cat and they don't come home at night. I was so disappointed in myself that I had, you know, carelessly lost him,

10 (53m 39s):
Which of course in Eva's mind confirmed all of her fears that Mattie loved Birdly Moore. You got even more jealous. And then finally Peter went out and bought another birdley, exactly the same doll, same color, whole thing. But instead of telling Matt like, Here honey, I know how much you miss that doll. So I bought you another one. He claimed to have found the original Birdley, which was just more willful suspension of disbelief. Like of course Burley isn't someone you can just go out and purchase at a store any old time. He's unique, a burden a million. And that was good enough for Maddie. She felt a lot better. But then a couple months after that, Maddie's doing a really thorough cleaning of the house is in her daughter Eva's room turns the mattress over, you can see where this is going.

12 (54m 25s):
She comes to me and she's like, Look what I found. You know? And I was like, That's that's, you're right. That's Burley. And that's because all this while his twin's sister has been pretending to be him, to make you feel better, while he was, he had to go out into the world. And

10 (54m 50s):
His twin sister being the newer, more pliant cleaner one,

12 (54m 53s):
Correct. Yeah. Who had an amazing likeness for him. It's like out of, you know, what is it, 12th night or something? Yeah. You know, it's just like some, I'm kind of proud of that, although I'm also bewildered by it. And she just loved that.

11 (55m 8s):
So that is how Bird Ladette was born.

10 (55m 12s):
Bird, Ladette, Burley's twin. And soon all the other birds joined the flock too. One of Peter's sons gave Maddie a doll. She called Dr. Botley.

11 (55m 21s):
He looks a little like a robot and, but he's a bird and a doctor. He's received a Nobel Prize from medicine for having cured space rash.

10 (55m 31s):
Eva gave me the insider scoop on Dr. Bodley.

13 (55m 33s):
He's also missing, I think that I hid him and I dunno where he's

10 (55m 37s):
Currently missing,

13 (55m 38s):
He's been missing for years. But if you ask mom, she'll tell you he's on sabbatical.

10 (55m 42s):
Next came hub Aletta or Hubie, she's an owl. Then there's Panino, a penguin who's studying to be a bird mobile mechanic.

13 (55m 50s):
He is like in the car and we use him as like a lumbar pillow.

10 (55m 54s):
And finally there's wing who is not embodied, no physical incorporation whatsoever, stuffed or otherwise. So at this point, Eva's original goal to disappear Birdly so that Maddie wouldn't pay so much attention to him, could not have backfired more badly. Her parents' conversations now involved exactly 500% more birds than there had been. And to make matters worse, her older brother to in when he was home, would occasionally get into the act, egging their mother on to keep telling bird stories.

13 (56m 26s):
And again, it was like there's no malice there. They thought it was just the same as any other teasing that we as a family did all the time. But I felt replaced. Like, you know, And there's like, there's no way that that could have been addressed. Cuz what are you supposed to even say after having yelled at them? I know the birds are fake. Like, I hate you. I hate you and your fake birds, they're not real. They're just stuffed animals to then be like, But also I do feel they're real and you're hurting. My feelings

10 (56m 52s):
Feel real.

13 (56m 53s):
They are real.

11 (56m 54s):
They are real.

13 (56m 56s):
I mean, what is real other than what everyone around you says is real, right? I mean there's no, like if everybody around you is talking about them and they are having significant social, emotional, psychological impact on your life, like I don't see what's realer than that.

10 (57m 14s):
Eva says she's still not a fan of the birds these days, but in the last couple years she's finally reached a little equanimity with them. The lot's changed. She's older as a good job. Not living at home anymore has helped. Plus she's unpacked a lot of personal stuff that made her especially hypersensitive and insecure as a teenager. She'll even ask her mom from time to time how the birds are doing. Just as a way of connecting with her. She read me this text conversation she had had with Maddie a couple of days before our interview. Something about the birds needing an attachment in their bird mobiles to hold the dipping sauce for their french fries.

13 (57m 47s):
I said, Birds need that. There's ranch all over the bird mobile, the steering column can barely turn. It's gooey with honey mustard. And then she said, Exactly honey mustard is the worst because it attracts fruit flies. And I said, Yes, the gear shift is all sweet and soured up. Also ranch has dairy in it. It's a total nightmare. So that was like a totally normal bird conversation. Totally entertaining, totally fun. I started it

10 (58m 9s):
And Maddie's met Eva partway too. She even apologized for filling the house with so much burs, especially when she learned through this story amazingly, that Eva actively stole and hid Birdly. Way back when I had planned to ask Maddie about that thing ever said earlier about the birds being quote unquote real. It was on my list of questions, but before I even got to it, she actually brought it up first told me she had been worried I was gonna propose the are they real question,

11 (58m 38s):
You know? So here I am this like it's an amazing that I'm a defense lawyer and then I'm asking myself the question I didn't wanna be asked. But I mean I'm like right, I'm putting it out there. But you know, I can't say that they aren't real to me. I can't shift off of it. I won't shift off of it.

10 (59m 0s):
Cause what would happen if you did?

11 (59m 4s):
I mean, okay, what would happen? I think it would be a huge loss. I think it would be a huge loss.

10 (59m 12s):
The kind of loss you might feel when you have to stop playing your favorite sport cuz your body can't hack it anymore. Or maybe the loss you feel when you finish watching all five seasons of your favorite show. Except way, way more so because this is their show. They created it and constantly updated and it's been going on since their real children were in middle school. It gives them some of that feeling of being parents, I think. Except without any of the worries and without having to watch the birds get any older or fly away.

0 (59m 49s):
Jean Cole is one of the producers of our show.

14 (59m 57s):
Guess what a spoken to Norm. We're going to live in the trees. Diddy, you will be transformed. We're going to live in the trees, we're going live in the

2 (1h 0m 13s):
Trees.

14 (1h 0m 17s):
I'll bring you a fat, you see worm, I'll bring you. Open your beacon, close your eyes. We're gone. Live in the trees. We're going live in Jesus.

0 (1h 0m 35s):
Well bro is produced today by the man you just heard. Sean Cole. The people who put together today's show include the matter Wmi on a baker, Susan Burton, Dana Chivas of Eva de Kornfeld Hana, J Waltz, Seth Fly, Mary Marge Walker, Tobin, low name, Mai Stone, Nelson, Catherine Mary Mondo Ship, Louis Sullivan, Christopher Ro, Matt Tierney, and Chloe Wener, our managing editor, Sarah Abdu Robben, our senior editors, David Kestenbaum, our executive editors, Emmanuel Barry. Additional production on today's rerun from Ball Kips. It's been a year since we first broadcasted today's program and I am really saddened to tell you this next bit of news. Carmen Malto, who you heard in the first act of today show, talking about her then future husband Sebastian, killing a chicken to impress her mom in May.

0 (1h 1m 17s):
She wrote me to say that her beloved Sebastian died in addition to his marriage and his family life. Sebastian, by the way, a coordinated movie set construction for lots of films and TV shows. You may have seen one of the Star Trek reboots a Mission Impossible Vanilla Sky if these walls could Talk. Shawshank Redemption, murder, she wrote lots of others. Anyway, special thanks today to Chris Cole, Jennifer Bogo, Catina Iman, and a Young and Annie, Chelsea. Our website, this american life.org where you can stream our archive over 750 episodes for absolutely free. Also, there's videos, there's lists of favorite shows, tons of other stuff there too. Again, this American life.org, this American Life is delivered to public radio stations by prx, the Public Radio exchange.

0 (1h 2m 1s):
Thanks as always. Tor Programs co-founder Mr. Tory Malt, who's actually sitting right here. Hey, Tori, could you look at your watch and tell me how much time do we have left in today's show? Just a minute. Thanks buddy. I'm her glass back next week with more stories of this American life.

14 (1h 2m 17s):
We're gonna live

2 (1h 2m 19s):
Cheese.

14 (1h 2m 25s):
We're going to live that

2 (1h 2m 27s):
Cheese

0 (1h 2m 42s):
Next week on the podcast with this American life. There's so many things in the news lately about kids. Should they go on, buy black history in school, should they wear masks in public schools or get to express who they are as trans people? And usually what we hear is adults talking about these things. We don't hear much from the kids themselves. What do they think next week on the podcast? We ask them.