0 (0s):
Support for this American life comes from Disney plus with national geographics. Welcome to earth. Starring will Smith, a six part original series streaming December 8th on Disney plus through the lens of academy award nominated filmmaker, Darren Aronofsky, and with some of the world's top explorers will embark on an ends of the earth adventure to explore the planet's greatest wonders. Welcome to earth, all episodes streaming December 8th, only on Disney plus

1 (28s):
From WBZ Chicago. It's this American life Amara glass. So back in 2012, we ran this completely outrageous story about some stuff that the FBI did about an undercover informant who spied on American Muslims for over a year. And it went badly like spectacularly badly. And some of those people who were spite on some of the people in the story sued the us government because of it it's taken years to wind through the courts, but just last month it was argued before the U S Supreme court. So today I'm going to play you the story and also talk about the court case. A little, some context for the story before we start it's about FBI surveillance of Muslims ever since nine 11.

1 (1m 8s):
There's been a ton of that. And just to give a sense of what that means. Our original episode opened in Queens, New York city, one Saturday night at a community center, three dozen people show up the kids run around before it starts coffee in the back. It's a workshop run by two lawyers, Rumsey COSAM and DLS Chammas who are with a project called clear from the city. University of New York law school think is free legal aid to Muslims who get caught up in counter-terrorism surveillance investigations.

2 (1m 37s):
So what we want to do today is nothing controversial. We just want to arm you with the knowledge of your rights so that you know how to respond. When you find yourself, if you find yourself last, I'm a holla in that really uncomfortable situation, where you have an FBI agent at your door or an NYP D detective at your workplace, asking them to talk to you

1 (1m 57s):
How common it happens. So often Casa and Chammas told me that sometimes they ask for a show of hands at these workshops and they learn that every single person in the room has either been visited by law enforcement like this, or know somebody who has two attorneys start with a demonstration of what happens in one of those encounters. Yala Chammas plays the plain clothes, FBI agent who comes to the door Ramsey COSAM plays the guy at home.

2 (2m 20s):
We're first going to do it the wrong way. This is how this interaction should not happen.

3 (2m 26s):
Knock-knock

2 (2m 27s):
Yes. Hello.

3 (2m 28s):
Hi. It's fine. Is this sound mumsy costumes house? Yeah. Great. Can I just come in?

2 (2m 34s):
Sure. Of course. Yeah. Come in, please. Thanks. Yeah. Who are you? I'm sorry. I didn't. Oh,

3 (2m 40s):
My name is Jada. I am I'm with the FBI. Just to ask you a couple of questions.

2 (2m 45s):
Oh, wow. FBI. Okay. Sure. Nothing to worry about.

3 (2m 49s):
Okay. Standard. You know, we get into them to the neighborhood I'm new here. So,

1 (2m 53s):
And the discussion afterwards, the audience points out that this was a mistake. He should have asked her ID before getting the FBI agent his home, and he doesn't have to answer any questions. He could have even asked for a warrant that also points out that he seems very nervous. Another mistake. So do you go

3 (3m 9s):
To the mosque down the

2 (3m 10s):
Streets? Yes. Not a doll. Yeah.

3 (3m 14s):
Okay. And who's your mom there?

2 (3m 17s):
W w Y

3 (3m 20s):
Oh, I've just curious, you know, it's part of my, I'm just want to make sure that I say the right thing when I meet the right people.

2 (3m 26s):
Oh, okay. Yeah. I know. You know, he's been the mom there for a number of years and he's from Egypt, you know? I can't remember his name.

3 (3m 35s):
You can't remember his name. Oh, okay. So is it Mr. ?

2 (3m 43s):
No, I don't think that's him. He's he's one of, he's one of the leaders. He's one of the organizers there.

1 (3m 48s):
Yeah. Jeunesse who else lives in the house? What does he think about the political situation in Egypt? Do you,

3 (3m 54s):
Do you have an ID?

2 (3m 55s):
Yeah. Yeah. Sure, sure. Here's my ID.

1 (3m 59s):
Dakota. More about politics. The agent. Thanks him for his cooperation. Says she may come back with more questions.

2 (4m 5s):
Okay. Thank you. Thank you. You too. You should not be applauding that performance.

3 (4m 17s):
What, what went wrong in this?

2 (4m 23s):
So, so the brothers pointing out that there was a lot of volunteering of information,

3 (4m 30s):
So it's difficult, right? Because I was being sort of friendly and, and you know, why wouldn't you volunteer that information if you don't think that you've done anything wrong.

1 (4m 39s):
And the problem with that, the two horrors tell the crowd now is that the more you say, the more you could accidentally be incriminating yourself, right? Especially dangerous. They say, well, there's moments in the demonstration where Casa was nervously stumbling around. Not sure what to say.

2 (4m 55s):
Specific under federal law in the United States, lying to a federal agent is a federal offense. It's a crime. And it's a crime that's being charged since nine 11 disproportionately against Muslims. So the moment that you have that interaction with the federal agent, let's say, I didn't remember something. And Dallas asks me a question, oh, you're friends with Cyrus. Where were you last Tuesday? And I say, oh, I think we were camping. But maybe she spoke to Cyrus before. And Cyrus said something different. So all of a sudden there's a dis there's a discrepancy. Either I'm in trouble or Cyrus is in trouble. And so even having that very basic conversation

1 (5m 31s):
Because of this, he tells the group over and over. He says this, if the FBI or N Y P D comes around asking these general questions, it is best to get a lawyer.

2 (5m 41s):
We're not saying never talk to them. That's not what we're saying. What we're saying is do it in a way that is responsible. And it's nothing controversial. It's what Martha Stewart does. When she was approached by the FBI, she didn't talk to them directly. She retained lawyers when president Clinton was under investigation, he had a team of lawyers. So that's the safe, responsible way to do it. And it's not being uncooperative. It's actually the most American thing.

1 (6m 6s):
This particular workshop happened in 2012, but clear and other organizations still give workshops like it. Today. I called around to a bunch of lawyers from different groups. And I don't know, I had assumed that 20 years, since nine 11, the surveillance of Muslim communities would have slowed some, but everybody told me the same thing. It's the same today or greater than it's been in the past. The council on American-Islamic relations office in Southern California has more cases of law enforcement knocking on people's doors. Plus in addition to that, a real explosion and Muslim travelers being questioned at the airport. When I reached Rumsey COSAM this week on the phone, the lawyer from that workshop in 2012, you also pointed out that airports are a big deal.

1 (6m 47s):
These days

5 (6m 48s):
We're seeing surveillance at airports where people traveling back from overseas from Muslim majority countries are having their Triumeq devices confiscated and all of the data dumped, or they're being questioned at airports and secondary screening.

1 (7m 2s):
Is it legal to take somebody's phone? If they're an American citizen and they're crossing into the country and take the data?

5 (7m 9s):
That's a really good question. It's a contested question. You know, we fought in court, the government takes the position that the fourth amendment does not apply at the border and that an airport is a border. And so, and so they claim that your, your phone is a, the U S government's position across administrations is that your phone is just like a suitcase that they can search. And that if you're crossing an international border, they have the right to that data. They can take it, they can save it to their databases. They can share it with partners. So that's their position.

1 (7m 39s):
Basically what happened was in the years after nine 11, the FBI built an infrastructure to do surveillance and look for terrorist pots. And now that it's in place, it just kind of chug along and our constitution, the first amendment, freedom of religion, it would be illegal for the government to go target somebody for surveillance, just because they practice a particular religion. They can't go and knock on their door to ask if your questions, they can't stop them at the airport. They can investigate simply because they're Muslim. And the case of you're about to hear the case. It was argued at the Supreme court last month. It's got FBI versus Zaga at its heart is about that. It's a landmark case about whether the government's actions gathering information on Muslim citizens since nine 11 have been constitutional.

1 (8m 24s):
The tactics used by the FBI in this particular case are tactics that they often use when they surveil muscle communities like using performance. Last time, the FBI publicly stated how many informants had had the number was 15,000. But in a bunch of ways, this case is not typical. It's an outlier case where we can watch everything go wrong, not just from the point of view of the people being surveilled, the informant. Isn't happy how it worked out. And we presume the FBI can not be too pleased either for reasons that you're here. Yeah. I know that, like I said, it's a compelling and very weird case. Stay with us.

1 (9m 12s):
Gym rat. So this happened in orange county, California, 2006. And at that point, at least one homegrown terrorists had come out of an orange county, mosque and gone to work with her Sama. Ben Godden was on the FBI's most wanted terrorist list and relations between the FBI and Muslims in orange county, California were already on edge before this story began. So on edge that the head of the FBI for Los Angeles, Stephen Tidwell decided they should do a town meeting at a mosque in orange county was the Islamic center of Irvine, where he said emphatically that the FBI was not monitoring Muslim student groups in the area or the mosque itself.

1 (9m 52s):
The crowd did not buy this. Somebody in the audience told Kidwell that it would be naive for them to believe that the FBI was not monitoring the mosque. Everyone should understand that they were being monitored. He said, Tidwell's interrupted.

7 (10m 5s):
Nope. You're not. We're going to come to Moss to come and service. We will. We will tell you we're coming to start.

1 (10m 15s):
The man in the audience replied, you will send your agents without anybody knowing,

7 (10m 19s):
Okay, but what I'm saying, FBI, we will tell you we're coming. For the very reason. We don't want you to think you're being monitored.

1 (10m 27s):
That was June 5th, 2006, as best as we can determine. And people at the mosque and from testimony in court, two months after Tidwell's reassured them that the FBI would not monitor them without tying them. The FBI placed an undercover informant in the mosque. And this is where a story begins. Sam black is our reporter.

4 (10m 47s):
The informant in this story is named Craig Montay. And like a lot of people who go into recover to catch criminals, he used to be a criminal himself. He's done time for forging checks, embezzlements and grand theft. At one point, he made a living, stealing cocaine from drug dealers. As I reported this story, people who know him, described him as a snake, a chameleon, a thug scam artist, and quote, a piece of, and Craig says some pretty farfetched things like this list of aliases. He told me he used all of these and undercover stings,

8 (11m 20s):
Italian drug dealer. Vincent Denato a Russian Hitman by the name of Ivan Chernenko Colombian drug dealer, Pedro Hernandez, a Bulgarian drug dealer by the name of sir guy GERD. Also, I went by Polish names. One was lek Leschi.

4 (11m 45s):
It's unclear if any of these are real, but some of the unlikely things Craig says do check out like the fact that he worked on the counter-terrorism operation for the FBI. The bureau has confirmed this in 2006, the FBI enlisted him to go undercover, to catch people who were recruiting and training terrorists. Craig says it all began at a strip mall, Starbucks where he met with two FBI agents, Paul Allen and Kevin Armstrong. He says, they told him they wanted them to go undercover. They'd pay him to infiltrate the Muslim community in orange county, which is a funny thought because Craig's not the most conspicuous guy.

8 (12m 31s):
I'm 6, 2, 260 pounds. It's not fat. It's lean body mass. I bench 500 pounds. I have 21 and a half inch arms.

4 (12m 42s):
But according to Craig, the FBI wanted to use his lean body mass to their advantage. I was too

8 (12m 48s):
To lure Muslim males into the gym, using my physique to see what actually is the real pulse of the Muslim community. They told me what I did was vital to America's national security and to do exactly what they said.

4 (13m 13s):
And did they have particular targets in the Muslim community in mind?

8 (13m 18s):
No. They said the targets would come to me.

4 (13m 21s):
The FBI wouldn't talk to me for this story because the operation is still classified and because it's the subject of a lawsuit, but the FBI later confirmed in court that Craig was an undercover informant. A district attorney also stated in court that Craig did work with agent Kevin Armstrong. And that Craig had given the FBI quote, very, very valuable information. The FBI also confirmed one other thing. The name of Craig's operation

8 (13m 48s):
Operation flex F L E X

4 (13m 59s):
One Thursday in August, 2006. Craig showed up at the Islamic center of Irvine. One of the biggest mosques in orange county and met with the mom there. Craig told him that he wanted to convert to Islam the next day after Friday prayers, Craig stood on a stage in front of hundreds of people and declared that he was now a Muslim with a new Muslim name, Farrukh disease, people who were in the mosque that day. Remember it? Well, the first time they saw this new convert Farrukh picture,

9 (14m 30s):
Like a 300 pound blind backer that has a ridiculously wide frame and then huge, massive legs.

10 (14m 38s):
These biceps would just like my, my or thigh. He basically, he's just, he was a big guy.

11 (14m 44s):
The beginning, I was kind of, you know, kind of scared from him. He was kind of scary to me looking

4 (14m 52s):
Over the next few weeks, Craig started showing up at the nearby 24 hour fitness, a gym where a lot of the guys from the Irvine mosque would work out. And when he wasn't in the gym, he was at the mosque. He attended prayer five times a day. One of the people who noticed Craig was an Egyptian guy and an Ironman. He asked to not use his last name

10 (15m 12s):
Every day. You would see him in the moms everyday. You would see him, but he would be sitting alone. You don't know if he has friends or if he is struggling to understand what's going on, you feel bad. This guy, he was, he's a new to Islam. Probably either he's afraid or curious or something. I don't know. You don't know. You just want to be as, as friendly as you can.

4 (15m 31s):
I'm in, lived in a house just around the corner from the mosque, with a few other Egyptians, one day, he decided to introduce himself to Craig. I believe

10 (15m 39s):
It was after, after the Duvall prayer, which is don't want at one o'clock. I went to him and I said, Hey, Salaam-Alaikum peace upon you basically. And Hey, my name is Ironman. He

8 (15m 49s):
Says, been about four weeks, right? You're still

4 (15m 52s):
Here. Craig remembers this too.

8 (15m 55s):
Yes. He said, well, usually people just knew converts at a few weeks. They just, they leave. They fall by the wayside. I said, well, not me. I'm a, I'm a real.

10 (16m 6s):
And I told him, here's my number. And I wrote my number on a piece of paper. If you have any, any question about anything, you know, like in your head about the religion or, or if you need anything that can help you with, I would love.

8 (16m 19s):
And he said, well, you know, we're Egyptian. We get together on after like prayer on Fridays and through the weekends. And we all, you know, barbecue have food together. Maybe you can come by and we'll, we'll talk to you more about your faith and how you can grow as a Muslim. From there. When I went home, I thought I'm really in

4 (16m 43s):
Craig's new friend, Ironman lived with four unmarried Egyptian men, all in their late twenties or early thirties. One was an accountant. Another worked for a logistics company. There was a guy who worked in pharmaceuticals and in an it consultant, they each traveled occasionally sometimes for work or sometimes back home to Egypt. Craig says his FBI handler suspected the roommates might be a terrorist cell that would radicalize him. So he arrived at their house ready for anything.

8 (17m 11s):
Well, first of all, they make some magician food, which is a very good, delicious food. And we sit on the couch for about maybe a couple of hours just have conversation and they would play their X-Box while we're having a conversation in a very competitive way.

10 (17m 28s):
I was engaged at the time. But, but I, I used to play more X-Box and spending time. It was my fiance. It's like 80% X-Box and everything else comes second

4 (17m 39s):
That's I'm. And again, he and his friends were ridiculously obsessed with X-Box they'd play tournaments for five hours a day. And they only played one game FIFA soccer. That was the

12 (17m 50s):
Only thing we played. A lot of people, we still play a lot of FIFA

4 (17m 53s):
Yasser abdel-rahim was one of the islands roommates, a tall athletic guy who worked as a tech consultant. He'd lived in the U S for about 10 years Yasser. And I'm in considered their house of brotherhood. But as he told me and my producer, Brian Reed, not really the militant terror cell kind, Craig was looking for,

12 (18m 11s):
We'd all just hang out together. And a lot of my friends would actually kinda come in and say, this is kind of like the frat house. Right. But obviously we didn't drink it. So like a frat house without alcohol kosher frat house. Yes.

4 (18m 28s):
Craig's plan worked. Yasser Nyman started inviting him over more and more. They'd hang out together, get coffee, go to the movies. When Craig got sick, they went to his house to keep him company. They bought him books about Islam and brought them back gifts from their trips to Egypt, here's Ironman. And then the Asser,

10 (18m 47s):
He was super cool guy. You know, he initiated conversation. We talk about stuff,

12 (18m 51s):
But he was very comfortable around us. He was very cool around us. He would joke around. He would tell us about what he did. Some of the issues that he was going through. He said he was going through some rough patches from a family perspective, going through a divorce,

10 (19m 2s):
Not to speak an Arabic as much. You know, when, when, when he's around, because we didn't want to give him any feeling that he's uncomfortable or anything like that.

12 (19m 9s):
We've talked about the gym. We went, worked out together.

10 (19m 12s):
You know, obviously when you see a big bulky guy, you know what I mean? That's just like, that's very quiet. Very can lift five pounds.

12 (19m 18s):
We watch TV. Sometimes you watch Arabic movies and cause he he'd be interested in actually seeing some of that.

10 (19m 23s):
We never treated him as an outsider. Say,

12 (19m 26s):
You seem like one of the boys,

4 (19m 34s):
But Craig was at work watching, taking notes and recording with a hidden microphone

8 (19m 39s):
Beyond the whole day, I would get into my car in my garage. I would turn on the device. And I would say something like Farouk <em></em> May 4th, 2012, 5:45 AM. And I am hot. Meaning it's beginning.

4 (20m 3s):
The FBI has publicly confirmed that Craig recorded audio and video during this operation. That means presumably the smack, the Egyptians talk during Xbox tournaments, the discussions of movies in their personal lives, the exercise tips that Craig gave them at the gym, the Egyptians would play pickup soccer on the weekends with a bunch of other Muslim guys. Craig went to some of these games, but he never played. Instead. Craig says he used the opportunity to jot down license plate numbers and film the game. So his handlers could see who associated with whom, according to Craig, he also brought his handlers things from the Egyptians house that might have their DNA or fingerprints. They,

8 (20m 43s):
They instructed me to get, because I'm in smoked a butt from his ashtray in his room and a certain item from his bathroom, like a toothpaste to

13 (20m 59s):
So you would sneak around their house and steal these things from their rooms.

8 (21m 3s):
Yes.

4 (21m 8s):
Meeting I'm an an Yasser. It was hard to imagine why the FBI was monitoring them. They just seemed like normal guys. The FBI, of course, wouldn't talk about the case and they wouldn't even talk in the general way, separate from this case about how they choose who they're going to investigate. So I called Trevor Aaronson to help me make sense of operation flex. He's an investigative journalist. Who's analyzed over 500 FBI terrorism convictions looking at how informants are used to find suspects, surveil them and build cases. I told Trevor what Craig said that the FBI went into the Muslim community without any specific suspects. Trevor said that's possible, but it's also possible that Craig wasn't told to the targets were

14 (21m 51s):
It's possible that the FBI had information that Craig isn't aware of in the cases we've looked at it it's really uncommon that the FBI would spend lots of time with someone who was so unfruitful. You know, if, if they're spending months and months and all they're doing is playing soccer, you know, the FBI will move on. You know, if Craig was spending that much time with them, you know, it's worth noting that most likely they had enough for what they call it predicate, which is a reason that they were investigating them. You know that there, there was a phone call that was overheard. There was some kind of correspondence with someone overseas that the FBI is monitoring that made them, made FBI agents suspicious of this particular group.

4 (22m 30s):
In addition to Trevor, my producer and I talked to five time, FBI agents now tired, who all over some informants, they couldn't comment on operation flex specifically. And none of them knew firsthand about these Egyptian guys, but they gave us similar theories. Basically. They said, if the FBI has even the smallest reason to suspect you a reason, you might not even be aware of yourself. They have to check you out. Maybe you happen to phone someone. The FBI is monitoring. Maybe they got a bad tip. One of the ex FBI agents said to me, do innocent people get investigated. Sure. Every day they can't weed them out without looking at them. The one agent said it was possible that this was a case that just went awry.

4 (23m 10s):
That was badly managed and didn't follow FBI protocols. Months, past people notice that Craig was acting more devout. He began reciting prayers, aloud dressing in traditional robes and showing up so early for 5:00 AM prayers that he'd get there before the person who unlocked the mosque every morning. They also know this something else is slowly

12 (23m 40s):
And surely enough. Some during sometimes when we're having coffee came, the question of jihad

4 (23m 45s):
Yasser. One of the Egyptians had actually been asked questions about jihad before non-Muslims bring it up with them. Sometimes like he'll be on the plane and the person next to them will ask about it. So he and his friends told Craig what they always tell people the jihad isn't what you see on the news. Jihad is really about each person's internal striving to be a good Muslim. It's not holy war. Here's Ironman. That's

10 (24m 9s):
The reality is if I'm new to Islam, I would be very curious about this stuff too. I will be very curious about this stuff. You know, that's what the media talks about all the time. So he must be very curious, you know, may you know if you, you mentioned Islam that I think there was a survey. If you mentioned Islam, you know, the second thing that you think about in the, I mean the American society was terrorist. So, you know, it was, for me, it was somehow normal that he's, you know, if you look at it from a as curiosity viewpoint, but it wasn't normal how obsessed he was with it until we start being, you know, this guy is, there's something very, very dumb about this person.

10 (24m 52s):
He just would bring these odd things in the middle of the conversation. Out of nowhere,

4 (24m 59s):
For instance, the guys would be talking about food or sports.

10 (25m 3s):
Yeah. He would always bring politics in the conversation. She had suicide bomber. So what do you want to eat? For example, I'm being sarcastic. What do you want to eat for Oak? So what do you think about health limo, Barack? You know what I mean? He just out of nowhere,

4 (25m 16s):
Craig talked to his Arabic teacher, Muhammad LCC about his new obsession to,

11 (25m 21s):
He invited me once to lunch. Yes. And he focused the topic in the lunch about jihad. And I, I keep like turning his attention into, into, into the, the, the, the, the essence of iSTEM and he keep again, bringing it back to jihad and he kept asking about your head over and over and over. And I told him, Faroq get over it, get over

4 (25m 50s):
The whole thing. It alarmed all of them at one point, Yasir confronted for Rukh. That is correct.

12 (25m 56s):
I even told him like, crew, this needs to this top because this is not the right direction. This is not what Islam is about. So if somebody is teaching this, let me know, because we need to correct that immediately. Right. And did he seem receptive? He did. He said he did it right. And I told them, I told them all at this point, you know, people are starting to get to wonder about what's going on, where you're learning this stuff from. Right. So we need to kind of understand that he was like, yeah, I'm not going to talk to anybody about this. I don't know. Maybe I was reading some incorrect stuff,

4 (26m 22s):
But Craig didn't listen. He didn't stop talking about jihad. He says, this is what the FBI wanted because he says he was great at it.

8 (26m 31s):
I would have to in a very strategic way, gets reviews on jihad. And they're so good at it. Their view that they wanted to enhance it. So I was to speak, to think 10 lessons a day regarding to HUD,

4 (26m 50s):
Since the FBI isn't commenting, I ran this by Trevor Aaronson the journalist who's examined about 500 counter terrorism cases to see if it was possible. He said that in all of those hundreds of cases, he's never heard of a coil like this. The ex FBI agents I spoke with hadn't either. The Trevor says that once this thing operation gets going, it's common for undercover agents and informants to bait suspects by asking them about jihad

14 (27m 15s):
That happens in almost every undercover sting operation. I can tell you that in many of the cases I've looked at, that's mentioned in the criminal affidavit affidavit in some way. And I, I think when that's submitted at trial, you know, that's a really damning piece of evidence for juries today.

4 (27m 33s):
Greg took this strategy and ran with it. Muhammad, the Arabic teacher heard complaints from his friends. It was

11 (27m 40s):
To, to, to the limit that one of them told me. He called, he keeps calling him by phone and keep saying to him, jihad, jihad. I was like, you know, wait a minute,

4 (27m 50s):
Whispered jihad. And the phone I asked Craig, did that happen?

8 (27m 57s):
Probably I'm not denying it. I may have been, we had a conversation or something and I had done something ridiculous like that, but I don't deny it. I'm sure I probably did. Okay.

4 (28m 12s):
What were you trying to accomplish with that?

8 (28m 15s):
Whatever individual heard that. And they didn't quickly report me. There are magically a suspect. Every single conversation is a conversation that the FBI or a prosecutor can say, well, you heard him say this numerous times, and yet you didn't do the following.

4 (28m 35s):
That's what you're trying to do. Of course, if you didn't think Craig could get any less subtle, here's another tactic he would try.

8 (28m 42s):
I'd say, let's, let's meet tomorrow afternoon to the gym. We'll work out together. I'll teach you some things of how to get your forearms shaped a little better, your, your biceps stronger, bigger. And at these workouts, I would ask very sensitive question regarding Islam, for example. So what do you think

10 (29m 2s):
About, about, about

4 (29m 6s):
I'm in, was working on his biceps when Craig asked him this,

10 (29m 9s):
I'm like, dude, you know, okay. You know, or some of that Aladdin is a bad guy. He's a, he's a mother. You know what I mean? All what we are suffering from right now is because of assumable land. New question right now is because of Osama bin Laden. You know what I mean? All of these new walls that they start acting about just searching, you know, sticking their finger in you is because of Osama bin Ladin. So you tell him, yeah, you know, this is where bad guy.

4 (29m 39s):
One day a guy named <em></em> showed up at the gym with a friend, Rayez had owned the Halaal KFC slash taco bell nearby Craig hopped off a stationary bike and introduced himself to realize as a fellow Muslim here's Riaz.

15 (29m 54s):
I left, I left to go stretch out. Then I came back and then he, he leans to us. And then he says, you know, I met, I met the shake in Afghanistan, the shake, the shake. I said, yeah, I met the big guy or the shake it in Afghanistan.

4 (30m 10s):
What did you think when he said

15 (30m 11s):
That we, we knew that his , he was bragging. He was like smiling, the hemophilia shake. Yeah. It just became very clear. Don't have to us,

4 (30m 22s):
Craig told us he has never been to Afghanistan, but he was trying to see if these guys at the gym who he'd never met, thought it would be cool to hang out with Osama bin Laden. They didn't think that would be cool. So instead Ray says he wanted to get Craig to leave him alone. So every time he saw him, he would tell him the dirtiest jokes he could come up with. Yeah.

15 (30m 42s):
Oh, I, I don't want him to like, think I was a good Muslim. I just felt like his goal was to like, to get us involved with something that we weren't involved with it.

4 (30m 51s):
What did he tell him?

15 (30m 52s):
Like, did you hear about the doctor who was having sex with his patients? And he said, no. And I said, he's a very interesting doctor. And then he looked at me, he was a veterinarian.

4 (31m 7s):
It worked, Craig left him alone. After that, About eight months of the operation flex, Craig says his handlers told him to start talking to people about an actual terrorist plot plan to blow up buildings in Southern California. That happens in lots of FBI stings. The informant suggests the plot to the suspect, not the other way around. According to Trevor Aaronson again, who studied hundreds of terrorism convictions.

14 (31m 36s):
I have about 500 terrorism cases since nine 11, about 50 defendants have been involved in cases where the informant came up with the idea and provided all of the means.

4 (31m 47s):
But the ex FBI agents, I talked to said that in a well-run operation, the informant is not supposed to suggest the plot out of the blue. First, the suspect would have to declare his intention to commit an act of violence. Without that the whole case could get thrown out of court. As entrapment. The person Craig suggested his plot to was a guy named Ahmed. neo-Nazi Yazzie is the only person we know of that. Craig health catch. The only person in the FBI arrested as a result of operation flex, Craig had met neo-Nazi one night at the Irvine mosque Muhammad Craig's Arabic teacher introduced them. Yazzie was a family man, very different from the Egyptian X-Box players.

4 (32m 28s):
He had a wife and two young kids and taught at a nearby language school. And he, as he grew up in Afghanistan, but he'd lived in California for eight years. He and Craig went out for coffee and they, it off, they started hanging out a lot. Sometimes with Muhammad one Friday, the three of them were driving to a mosque where Mohammed was scheduled to give a sermon. Yazzie didn't want to do an interview for our story, but here's Muhammad

11 (32m 54s):
NAZA was sitting in the backseat and a frog was sitting in the passenger and I was driving and here's

4 (32m 60s):
Craig AKA Farrukh.

8 (33m 2s):
And I started to bring up, you know, what, what should we really do as Muslims now that our brothers and sisters had been blown up in Afghanistan and Iraq,

11 (33m 17s):
We're living in Irvine, the most peaceful city in America. It's like, you know, I just don't like, you know, the way that, you know, American government is handling situations, you know, outside and stuff. And I was like, you know, okay, and what

8 (33m 32s):
Are we supposed to just stay here? Watch our national championship games, play X-Box and everything else while our brothers are being

11 (33m 41s):
Killed. And he start talking about some jihad,

8 (33m 44s):
I mean, I became very aggressive and he was going through,

11 (33m 47s):
What are you trying to get into exactly. I

8 (33m 50s):
Say we should carry out a terrorist attack in this country because I'm tired of just staying around, doing nothing. I've got access to weapons. I know how to do things. We should bomb something.

11 (34m 8s):
Silence was out there in the car. I didn't say a word until we arrived to the mosque. I refused to talk at all. The first thing that came into my mind that I thought that he's a, a straight shot terrorist. And at that, at that point, you know, I, I felt kind of scared from him. He scared me

4 (34m 34s):
Mohammed glance into the rear view mirror. And sanyasi staring back at him. He looked shocked. Craig's head was down. He was now playing with his phone. No one said anything for the remaining 20 minutes of the ride to the mosque to drive back home was the same after they parted ways with Craig Mohammed and the Ozzie talked about what had just happened. They decided they had to do something. So they did what all Americans are supposed to do in this situation. What law enforcement officials tell us we should do. When someone says he has access to weapons and wants to use them, they reported crime to the FBI as a potential terrorist

1 (35m 20s):
Coming up. What happens exactly when you turn in someone to the FBI who is working for the FBI sandbox story continues in a minute from Chicago public radio. When our program continues support for this American life comes from good.

0 (35m 38s):
You probably shop for the best prices on everything. Why not do it for your prescriptions too, with good RX, good RX instantly compares prescription prices at neighborhood pharmacies and can save you up to 80% for simple, smart savings on prescriptions. Go to good rx.com/tal that's good rx.com/tal good RX is not insurance, but can be used instead of insurance in 2020 good RX users saved an average of 79% off retail prices support for this American life comes from capital one with early paycheck. You can get your direct deposit up to two days earlier and with no fees or minimums on checking and savings accounts banking with capital.

0 (36m 20s):
One is like the easiest decision in terms of BLI. See capital one.com/bank capital one and a member FDI C

1 (36m 31s):
This American life and Myra glass today's program. The convert, the story of an FBI undercover operation from 2006 that went very badly is I think a fair way to say it. And the uneasy relationship between some Muslims and the FBI and why that might be. And as I said, at the top of the show, we first ran today's program back in 2012, and we're rebranding it today because the case, the documents was argued at the Supreme court last month. It's hard to say what exactly constitutes failure if you're a government informant. But I think that being turned over to authorities as a possible terrorist yourself, by the people who you think are terrorists, that's gotta be on the list, right?

1 (37m 11s):
That's not good. Sam black picks up our story where we left off.

4 (37m 17s):
So Muhammad and the Ozzy wanted to report Craig to the FBI, but they weren't sure who to call or how to do it. They reached out to who som a louche who saw Ms. Director of the council on American Islamic relations in Southern California, known as care and a well-known member of the Muslim community there just hours after the car ride, he got a phone call from Muhammad here's who som

17 (37m 40s):
I was terrified. I mean, it's the guy that didn't know what to do. He was so nervous. They told me, I know you deal with the FBI. And I know you work with police. You know, what do I do now?

4 (37m 49s):
It was with neo-Nazi. They were both afraid that if Craig went ahead with his plot, they would somehow be responsible.

17 (37m 56s):
How's the phone to a neo-Nazi. And he was also panicking like crazy. I mean, both of them didn't know what to say. So I told them, don't worry about it. Calm down. You're not responsible for anything. You're doing the right thing. You're calling the authorities. So even if the guy is planning on anything, you're, you have nothing to worry about. You're not accomplices.

4 (38m 17s):
So, so what did you, what, what did you think was going on when you got this call?

17 (38m 22s):
There are three possibilities. Either. He is recruited by a spider, or he's a lone Wolf doing things on his own, or he's doing it for somebody else. As, as, as, as an entrapment, either way is bad news.

4 (38m 40s):
Sam told Muhammad in the Ozzy that he would call the FBI for years, he'd been attending monthly meetings with agents who had hoped to build a good relationship with the Muslim community. And he was friends with Steve Tidwell, the head of the FBI's LA office who saw him actually organized the outreach meeting. You heard about earlier, the one where Tidball promised that the FBI wouldn't send people into mosques on announced. So who saw him called Tidwell on his cell phone and told him what had happened to Muhammad and the Ozzie. They thought this guy in the car might be serious again. Here's who som?

17 (39m 13s):
I said, well, you don't thanks for Sam. You're doing the right thing. You know, thank these gentlemen, you know, this is exactly why we're so proud of, you know, working with the Muslim community. And, and I did mention the shit. I says, you know, he's a white guy, a white convert, and Irvine. I said, oh, that's what he said. Oh, okay. Thank you. That that's, that's great information. And we'll, we'll, we'll let you know what happens. I said, wait, wait, wait. Don't don't you need his name? Cause I had his name and I have his address because they, they knew where he lived. He said, well, you know, don't worry about it. You know, we work closely with Irvine PD and we'll take care of, take care of it from, from here. Don't worry about it.

17 (39m 53s):
That's that's when my doubts started, like, you know, playing in my head, like I felt there was something strange

4 (40m 0s):
Tidwell. Wouldn't speak to me for this story. So I don't know what he thought when his own informant was reported to him as a terrorist, but not long after this phone call, the FBI launched an investigation into Craig, which no matter how you look at it was a very strange undertaking. FBI agents were going around asking questions about an FBI informant, treating him as an actual suspect. They were investigating FBI, special agents, not only interviewed Muhammad and the Ozzie. They also questioned other people. Who'd been hanging out with Craig. I talked to five people who willingly took part in these interviews at the time they thought they were helping catch a dangerous person, Muhammad and the IZEA even went in front of the judge in the orange county superior court and got a restraining order against Craig so that he couldn't come within 200 yards of the mosque.

4 (40m 53s):
But looking back, the people, the FBI interviewed told me, there was something weird about the way the agents were acting through this whole ordeal. They just didn't seem that concerned Yasser one of the Egyptians. So there wasn't one of the imagined would happen when you call them the feds on possible terrorists.

12 (41m 9s):
My picture in my head is if you go and bring that up, it's on, let's go. Let's find this person. Let's make sure we're stopping them. They would be at his door immediately. 30 cars, blah, blah, movie style. It kind of like break in. Let's get this guy that wasn't the reaction, right? That wasn't the reaction we were getting

4 (41m 31s):
The agents did ask questions about Craig. How often did he come to the mosque? Who else did he hang out with? What kinds of things did he say? But with Yasser and others, they gradually began to ask more personal questions. How many times did you talk with <em></em> about jihad? What do you think jihad means? When did you come to the United States again? Yasser. These guys know

12 (41m 55s):
Exactly what was going on. They knew he was there informant. I think it was just another way for them to kind of get his hand and talk to them.

4 (42m 3s):
Some people were visited by the FBI more than once. Like Muhammad one day, FBI agents surprised him at his house. He asked them how the investigation into fruit was going. They told them Farrukh was a dangerous guy and he would be in trouble soon. But Muhammad says the agents were there to talk about someone else.

11 (42m 24s):
They asked me a couple of questions about <em></em> how much information I know about him. And I told him, I don't know anything about him, except that he is a person that comes in, praying in the mosque. And I know him through the community. I didn't know him before that. And I don't know very much information about him. They said, you know, we just wanted to collect more information about that person. I told him, I told you what I know about him. That's all,

4 (42m 52s):
This was strange for Muhammad Yazzie was the one who helped him report. Craig, why were the FBI agents asking you about him By the spring of 2007, the FBI had honed in on the Ozzie. It's unclear exactly why, but court records reveal. One thing that got their attention. One of the neo-Nazi sisters was married to a man named Ameen. Al Hawk. Hawk was designated as a terrorist by the us government. He had allegedly served as a security coordinator for a summer in London And the Ozzy also said things to Craig that concern the FBI, none of Craig's recordings have been released.

4 (43m 43s):
So we don't know what exactly they talked about. But Craig gave us dozens of emails, the Ozzie sentence. They're mostly articles and links to videos. Some of these are about conspiracy theories. Like how nine 11 was an inside job. Others criticize the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, sometimes calling for Muslims to rise up against their enemies. This YouTube video is the most extreme thing. My producer and I found in the emails. It's an email. I'm talking about how he supports some of bin Laden.

18 (44m 13s):
<em></em> if you <em></em> I'm with him, everybody Muslims. The thing is that if you start driving

4 (44m 26s):
In case you didn't get that, he said every Muslim should be a terrorist. He as he, this video to an undercover FBI informant, Craig, they said that I hit a jackpot with Yazzie. They called it a jackpot. Even after neo-Nazi turned Craig in for nearly a year, the FBI continued to surveil in the Ozzie. Finally, two agents came to talk to him after they left the Ozzie immediately called Husan may louche at care.

17 (44m 58s):
She was crying. I mean, he was, he was crying like a little kid, very fearful. And he kept repeating. I'm the one who called the FBI. I'm the one. And now they're turning on me.

4 (45m 8s):
The lead agent who met with neo-Nazi was Thomas <em></em> who handled his case inside the FBI. Yazzie said ROPO threatened him, told him that the FBI had something on him, told me Ozzy, that he'd lied to them, which is a federal crime at an earlier meeting with FBI agents. One of the meetings where Niazi thought he was there to help the FBI catch Craig here's who som.

17 (45m 30s):
And the agent actually told him, based on our interviews with you, you've made comments that are not accurate and this would be perjury. And I feel bad for you, but you know, it's in your hand, you can change all of that. If you cooperate with us, they said, you know, you speak Arabic Pusch too and diary. And you could be a great asset in helping us protect the country. So well, that's what I did. I don't need to work for you. When I saw something bad. I'm the one who picked up the phone and report it. So while we need you here and we need you and I've gone to Stan, they offered them to be in Afghanistan and they offered him money. He said, I'm not going to go and spy on my people.

17 (46m 10s):
I told you if I see something bad, I'll report it. And then the guy told him, I hope you think about it because if you don't, we can make your life a living. Hell. They said to him is exactly the Coulter gave me because I wrote it down as he was talking to me,

4 (46m 27s):
Thomas Robel confirmed in court that this meeting happened though. He did not say that he pressured Yazzie to work for the FBI, but ex FBI agents, my producer and I talked to said, it's common to leverage people like this. Again, they weren't commenting on the Ozzies case, but one retired agent who had more than 20 years experience in the bureau. So there are people all over the country being approached by the FBI and pressured with things I said on tapes. He laughed. When we asked him about it, it was like asking a plumber. If he used a wrench, he says it happens at every level of law enforcement. He told us, quote, it sounds like a terrible thing guys, but it's the way business is done. It's the way the American people get protected.

4 (47m 8s):
You got to find people who can lead you to the bad guys. Thomas robo returned with a group of agents and the search warrant. They rated the Ozzy's house, taking computers and financial documents. Months later, Roppolo returned again and arrested in the housing

19 (47m 35s):
Time to federal authorities move in on this Tustin home, their targets, the 34 year old owner tonight, this local home looks empty, but today it was the scene of an FBI rave the suspect. A man with alleged ties to terrorists

4 (47m 60s):
The government, charged the Ozzy with immigration fraud and making false statements. They said that when the Ozzy applied for USS and ship, he didn't mention that his sister was married to a mean L Hawk, even though you're required to disclose. If you have any ties to a designated terrorist, they also charged him for using inconsistent versions of his full name on official forms and for not disclosing two trips he'd made to Pakistan years earlier. But what's interesting about neo-Nazi arrest is what he wasn't charged with. He wasn't charged with associating with terrorists himself. He wasn't charged with plugging in an attack and he wasn't charged for anything he'd ever said to Craig over the course of months of recorded conversations, still at the Isaac's bail hearing, the prosecutor argued that he was a danger to the community to prove that she called agent Thomas ROPO to the stand

20 (48m 54s):
Special agent, Thomas J roll the fair or yell. Thank you.

4 (49m 0s):
Robel testified that the confidential informant and recorded the Ozzie talking about jihad between 15 and 20 times. In addition, he said

20 (49m 10s):
There were some recordings that I had personally listened to regarding Mr. neo-Nazi discussing gaining access to weapons and discussing boiling of buildings. And

4 (49m 24s):
As role-play went on, the judge asked him to clarify, who had brought up these conversations, the Ozzie or the informant,

20 (49m 32s):
Mr. neo-Nazi has instigated these conversations with individuals. He instigated the cop history in the house. He did. Yes. Correct.

4 (49m 42s):
Of course the individual he supposedly instigated the conversations with was Craig Montay. I asked Craig about it. Did he ever instigate this kind of conversation with you? No,

8 (49m 53s):
No. I did. Every time

4 (49m 57s):
Craig has changed his story on this. When the Ozzy was arrested in 2009, he basically said the complete opposite. He said the Ozzie recruited him for a terrorist operation. But Craig says, now he's telling the truth. He says, what really happened is that he went after neo-Nazi more aggressively than anyone, the Ozzie, one of the friend and he tolerated Craig's jihad talk more than most

8 (50m 20s):
Thinking about the Ozzy was he trying to impress me? He's like five, five or so. And I was somewhat intimidating to him. So he kinda just went along with what I said. He didn't say he wanted to be a part of this, but he didn't say to me, no I don't. It's very bad thing to do. When you're being recorded.

4 (50m 48s):
Did you feel like I've got this guy who's ideologically leaning towards jihad?

8 (50m 55s):
What I thought was I can bring him there. He was afraid. He, he looked like he was scared, which is where I wanted him to be. And my handlers told me to bring real human more. And he was just kind of mesmerized by me.

4 (51m 13s):
I talked to people who know neo-Nazi and they backed this up. Yazzie mentored Craig. But at the same time, he was enthralled by him. At least until the moment when he and Mohamad decided to turn Craig in to the FBI, the government kept neo-Nazi under house arrest for more than a year with a curfew and an ankle bracelet. When I reached out to the Ozzie for this story, he sent me a statement. It says in part, when the FBI agent threatened to make my life a living hell, unless I became an informant, which I refused the FBI made true its promise and really did make my life a living hell and the past few years, my family and I have been struggling very hard to piece back together.

4 (51m 54s):
Our lives, the government eventually decided it didn't want to pursue. In Yazzie's case, it filed a motion to dismiss all of the charges. Operation flex ended with a single known conviction. One person did go to jail though. Craig Montay, six months after Craig was reported as a potential terrorist, the Irvine police arrested him for a bizarre unrelated crime. It turned out that during operation flex, he'd been running a side hustle coming to women more than $150,000 in a scheme to traffic, human growth hormone.

4 (52m 42s):
He met the women at the same gyms where he was monitoring Muslims. He went to prison for eight months. Craig sued the FBI over this claiming the whole thing was part of an FBI drug sting and that his handlers conspired to have him arrested after he became useless and operation flax, a judge recently through the case out, You can probably imagine what operation flex and its aftermath did to relations between the FBI and the Muslim community in orange county, who saw me lose the head of care in Southern California remembers the moment in the Ozzy's bail hearing.

4 (53m 24s):
When the FBI that Craig was an undercover informant who saw him was in the courtroom.

17 (53m 30s):
It's almost like a dagger in my back. I felt betrayed the whole community. Not just me. We felt betrayed because we talk about a partnership. You know, if you see something reported, you know, if you suspect criminal behavior call the police, people were saying, why should we do it? We're going to be the one, the target of the investigation. The reality is they never thought of us as partners for them. We were always suspects. We were always deemed as suspect or potential terrorists

4 (54m 12s):
Operation flex. Didn't just make people suspicious of law enforcement. It made them suspicious of each other. So many people I talk to. So they stay away from new converts. Now they have a hard time believing people are who they say they are. Here's Ironman. The Egyptian guy who first befriended Craig.

10 (54m 30s):
And what they did is they made everybody in the, in the Moss. Not trust everybody, nobody, nobody would talk about it, but nobody would, you would see some weird locks. You know what I mean? People are looking at each other weird. I don't know. Maybe I was sensitive or, you know, but, but I can tell that the way they looked at me was just different.

4 (54m 50s):
And one of the most awkward developments of this story, the Muslim community is now teaming up with Craig Montay. The council on American Islamic relations care, along with the ACLU is suing the FBI over operation flex. The government is arguing in response that allowing the case to go forward would reveal state secrets and harm national security. Craig is care's primary resource in the case, he's now helping the people he used to spy on. And he's been apologizing to some of them too. He sees them often because he still lives around the corner from the Irvine mosque and works out in the same gym. He made a special point of calling Yasir.

4 (55m 31s):
Abdel-rahim one of the first people he got close to.

12 (55m 37s):
You know, I, I, I definitely appreciate the fact that he called right, and that he apologized for it, but the damage is done. I, you know, I, I don't know what to do. I really don't. I now have a fear that I'm being monitored all the time. I don't know how you can change that.

4 (55m 55s):
Craig's not the only one apologizing after new Yazzie's charges were dismissed. He went to the courthouse to retrieve some of the property that the FBI had seized from his house. Thomas Roppolo was there. They talked for about 20 minutes. Remember Robel is the agent who allegedly threatened the Ozzie, who later arrested him. And he then testified in court that he was a danger to society. I spoke to the court employee who accompanied neo-Nazi to this meeting before they left rebel, went over to the Yazzie and shook his hand. He told the Ozzy that mistakes had been made. We're all human. He said, I'm sorry,

1 (56m 42s):
Sam black. He's a documentary filmmaker. His latest film, kingdom of silence that murdered Saudi journalist, Jamal Khashoggi is streaming on Showtime. Like I said earlier, the Supreme court case that came out of these events was argued last month. The central issue in the case, FBI versus <em></em> is whether the FBI was spying on people just because they were Muslim, which if true would be unconstitutional. But the Supreme court wasn't hearing arguments on that question. After all this time, the court system hasn't gotten to that question because the government is trying to get the case thrown out. The government says the FBI had good reasons just as veil, all these people, but amount of proper defense and explain what those reasons are.

1 (57m 24s):
They would have to reveal secret information, state secrets that would compromise national security. And they're saying that because their state secrets involved, the courts should throw out the case entirely. The is bringing the suit on behalf of the Muslim community. And Irvine argued before the Supreme court that this goes too far. They don't have to throw out the case. There are ways the case can still move forward. One of them there's a law, the foreign intelligence surveillance act or FYSA that would allow a judge to look at the classified materials. The state secrets still would not be public. The judge could see them. Nobody else could. And then the judge would come to a decision in the case, or the lawyers say the courts could just let the case proceed without any secret evidence at all.

1 (58m 7s):
Just leave that stuff out of the case, the bigger principle here in their view is that there should be a way for people to get their day in court, even in a case where the government claims there are state secrets. If the Supreme court doesn't allow the case to go forward, the lawyer who argued the case for the Muslim community, I land, I Rolanda Anthem said ultimately, if they win, they want all the information gathered in the surveillance operation to be destroyed.

21 (58m 31s):
And that is really important to the people in this community. They really were upset that the government spied on them while they were just living their lives, going to mosque in the morning, you know, hanging out like you heard yes, or Abdur-Rahim playing X-Box, you know, FIFA with his roommates. And it's really deeply offensive to people that the government spied got all that information. It's sitting somewhere in some digital vault in the FBI and they want all of that burned.

1 (59m 23s):
Our program is pretty stable. We said Pollock with Alex Bloomberg, Ben Calhoun, Sarah Kanick John, the man he brand Reed, Robin Samina Alyssa ship and Nancy uptake or senior producer for this episode was Julie Snyder used to come from Damian gray from Rob ghetto's production help today's rerun Catherine Raymondo, Stowe Nelson, Matt Tierney, and Chloe Weiner special. Thanks today to Petra bike, to say of HD and temple Raskin, Sarah Goldblatt, Cyrus McGoldrick, Benjamin and nastiness <em></em> shake and Lawrence Wright. Thanks also today to Michael German. <em></em> Mohammad Tasha, Husan <em></em> and Trevor Aaronson is journalist. Sam interviewed about the 500 FBI cases. He has a book about this cases, the Terra factory inside the FBI's manufactured war and terrorism, our website, this American life.org, where you can stream our archive of over 750 episodes for absolutely free.

1 (1h 0m 9s):
Also there's videos. There's lists of favorite shows. There's tons of other stuff there too. Again, this American life.org, this American life is delivered to public radio stations by PRX, the public radio exchange X as always to our boss, Mr. <em></em> who you may know this, he wakes up early every morning. There was off the covers, looks at the alarm clock takes a deep breath. It tells the world

6 (1h 0m 31s):
5:45 AM. I am

1 (1h 0m 35s):
Hi, I'm Eric Glass back next week with more stories and this American life Next week and the podcast, this American life stories of what happens when you follow the rules, act responsibly, look out for other's welfare.

1 (1h 1m 20s):
When you're the grownup in this situation, and things do not work out for you. You do not get rewarded. Others who ignore the rules. Jump ahead of you in short talking about one of the most frustrating things that happens when you do everything right, and it weeds nowhere details next week on the podcast or on your local public radio station.