0 (0s):
Support for this American life comes from Santander private client. When we have the freedom to travel, the world opens wide, giving life a new vibrance. Imagine scaling the Himalayas, winding through Alaska's glacial valleys or trekking into Costa Rica's unspoiled rainforests. You've worked hard to build a solid financial foundation allowing you to confidently take flight and explore without limits. Santander private clients. Premium accessibility and tailored financial guidance can help you make the ultimate itinerary a reality. Learn more@santanderbank.com slash explorer.

1 (33s):
I remember back when I was first starting in radio working at npr. This was in their old studios on M Street in Washington, DC and my boss back then and my mentor, Keith Cal, who side note taught me what was possible with radio. I would not be here without Keith. Anyway, we were in the studio listening to some recording and this was back in the days of reel to reel tape recorders and so it was long ago, right? And back then, any reel to real tape that you would throw up on a machine at npr, it would start with, I think it was like 30 seconds. It might have been a minute of tone y You know what I'm talking about when I say tone, right? It's this sound a thousand hertz. This tone actually has a practical function. If you picture, oh my god, this is really annoying.

1 (1m 13s):
Hold on, I'm just gonna stop that. Okay. If you picture a sound meter with a needle, you know that bounces up and down. Every time there's a sound, the tone is supposed to put the needle perfectly at this one spot on the meter with a black numbers end and the red part of the meter begins. There's like a zero at that spot marking. This is where you want to be and the tone is just supposed to rest there, rock solid. But this particular day with this particular recording, we put it on and Keith and I watch the meter as the needle like first dipped below the zero, then climbed above the zero and then floated sort of tentatively to the spot that it was supposed to be at the zero and rested there.

1 (1m 54s):
And he said to me, you see that? That's a person in there. That's the hand of the engineer over recorded this trying to find the right level. That's the ghost in the machine. I don't know why that stuck with me, the ghost in the machine. I have been recording people my entire adult life. I started at NPR when I was a teenager and today, sometimes when I set recording levels, I think about that, the trace that I'm leaving of myself when I push the knob up and down.

1 (2m 35s):
I think sometimes when you record something, you can't even imagine what it is that you're really capturing or who's gonna notice it someday. I was talking to this woman, Michelle Dawson, Haber, and she told me this story, how she had never known her dad. He died by suicide when she was three months old and her older sister, Ruth was five when he died. So she knew their dad. But then as she got older, this is so sad, she found that she was not able to remember anything about him anymore.

3 (3m 5s):
My sister spent many, many nights and days crying about, about not remembering him and wondering what he was like and what happened. And so it was her who did all the pining and longing, but I didn't really have any longing of my own particularly because I, I had no memories and I was only a baby and I didn't actually think I had any right too long for him.

1 (3m 28s):
Did you have a feeling as a kid of like, oh, I should feel more, or did you just feel like, nah, it's not my thing?

3 (3m 35s):
I think a mix of both.

1 (3m 37s):
Michelle's sister Ruth was in a perpetual search for information about their dad, but Michelle really had no interest. Her mom had remarried, she had somebody else she thought of as her dad, and then a cousin was cleaning out their uncle's house in Israel. That's where that part of Michelle's family was from. And the cousin found 25 recordings of Michelle's dad singing opera. He trained to be an opera singer even though his job was connecting people's phones. These were old reel Toro recordings. Their dad died in 1965. Michelle's sister Ruth found a sound engineer who could digitize them and as she and the engineer went through the tapes, they realized it was a lot of music, but it was also a lot of other stuff besides like her dad would take the recorder to work and record conversations with his customers.

1 (4m 21s):
He'd record himself composing music.

3 (4m 24s):
And so they were listening my sister and the sound engineer to one of these tapes and she said, you know, we gotta call Michelle. And so she messaged me on Skype. I was at work and she said, you gotta hear this. And she played me this, this real, and it was, it was her as a three-year-old and they were looking at photos and he was asking her who was in the photo and it was a little game they played, this is all in Hebrew. He tried desperately to teach her Hebrew and Is that daddy?

4 (5m 2s):
No,

1 (5m 3s):
No, I got that part.

4 (5m 6s):
The ima

3 (5m 7s):
No. Is it mommy?

4 (5m 9s):
No, no.

3 (5m 11s):
Is it

4 (5m 11s):
Rudy? Me,

3 (5m 16s):
Me.

4 (5m 17s):
Hello daddy.

3 (5m 18s):
I felt like, I felt like the flora dropped out from under me. You know, everything I thought I understood it just, it just fell away. I had, I had seen photos of him, I knew a little bit about him, but he wasn't accessible and, and this man that I assumed was not accessible to me suddenly became so, and it was when I heard him speaking and laughing with my sister, it was, it was overwhelming. And it was only in that moment that I realized what I had lost

4 (5m 59s):
Daddy

3 (6m 6s):
In the moment, to be honest, in the moment I felt my first emotion was anger because I never felt the loss of his death. I was too young.

4 (6m 22s):
Ow

1 (6m 24s):
Putting ghosts into a machine. It just happens when you record anything. You know who understood that very clearly? Thomas Edison, the person who first figured out how to record and playback sound, who created the first photograph machine back in 1877 in an article listing the possible uses for his new invention. One of the things he listed preserving the voices of family members. So you have them after they die. He says, when it comes to this quote, the photograph will unquestionably outrank the photograph. And this idea of using a machine to hold onto the dead, it's also part of a famous bit of audio history or maybe this is more like a legend.

1 (7m 5s):
You know, that illustration of a dog listening to the old fashioned phonograph with the caption, his master's voice. This was the RCA logo for years and years. Okay, Google RCA Trademark Painting and what'll come up, you'll see the painting that the logo was based on. You see the dog and photograph are on what looks like a coffin. And here's who there's a question, okay? There's no record of what the artist Francis Barra actually intended here, but look for yourself. Lots of people, me included, we only see a coffin and in fact, the dog whose name was Nipper, first belonged to Francis' brother and then became Francis' only when the brother died.

1 (7m 50s):
So in this way of seeing the picture, okay, the master's dead, he's inside that coffin and the dog is listening to a recording of his dead master's voice. So we're standing in the the third floor music room. In the early years it would've been called the Phonograph Experimental Department. I'm at Thomas Edison's lab in West Orange, New Jersey. This is where Edison developed the phonograph. The lab's official name these days is the Thomas Edison National Historical Park. And the curator, the audio curator Jerry Fas showed me around, they've done their best to keep things preserved like they were back in the day, the same piano and recording gear sitting right by Edison's hearing aid, which is basically just a long bellhorn that he would hold up to his ear.

1 (8m 42s):
And so they, they would be inviting musicians up here to make recordings and also making refinements on the, on the machine to try to improve the sound quality. So this room, it's funny, I spent my my whole life in recording studios. This room is one of the very first ones. Yeah, one of three if not the first. And it's just like an ordinary room, like it's high ceiling and there's normal windows weeding outside. There's no like soundproofing in any way. No. Jerry asked, show me the machine where for the first time ever, human beings successfully recorded sound and played it back. Edison's very first phonograph.

1 (9m 22s):
It's an incredibly simple device, a brass cylinder crank, a tube to talk into. Like I said, I've been recording people since it was a kid, really. And it was emotional to see the very first machine that did that. Like before all the great audio documentarians before Alan Lomax, before studs tur, everything started right there.

5 (9m 46s):
I'm recording this under a wax cylinder. I'm kind of over pronouncing my words and talking sort of loudly because that is the only way to get enough volume into this thing to actually make an audible recording

1 (10m 1s):
Recording on one of those old machines. In one of the rooms where Edison worked, it made Edison feel very, very near

5 (10m 8s):
Welcome. W B Z Chicago, it's this American life. I'm Ira Glass. Today on our program we have people who go looking for the ghost in the machine. They turn to mechanical apparatuses of all sorts, looking for those they lost peering into the static. Those cannot find any other way. Stay with us.

1 (10m 42s):
Go straighter. So when technology at its best, it helps us by doing exactly what we ask it to do. But it's only this straightforward when we ask for simple things, right? Play this song, send this email. This first story is about somebody asking a piece of technology to do something that up until recently, only humans have done to say something about loss, something people experience. But of course machines do not. So the machine has to talk about feelings. It cannot know what about the technology used in this story? You may be following the news about G P T Chat, the AI software that was released at the end of November that lots of people are trying out.

1 (11m 22s):
Today's show is a rerun from a year ago. And this story is about the software that preceded that Tobin Low explains.

6 (11m 30s):
The technology in this case is called G P T three. It's an artificial intelligence program that can write remarkably like a human and generally it's pretty convincing, can handle a wide range of topics too. The first time Jo Vara read something G P T three had written, it was about love. The New York Times had to write one of their modern love columns on the subject of dating.

7 (11m 52s):
And then part of what G P T three came up with goes like this. We went out for dinner, we went out for drinks, we went out for dinner again, we went out for drinks again, we went out for dinner and drinks again. So it's like I read that and was like, wow, that is a very accurate description of modern dating. I think

6 (12m 11s):
Part of me is like that's also not very good writing.

7 (12m 14s):
It depends on how you look at it. I mean like I feel like Gertrude Stein could have written that, you know like it's got this sort of like, like if you thought a human had read it, you would think it was like deliberately repetitive,

6 (12m 25s):
Like it was making a choice.

7 (12m 27s):
Yes. And it was like trying to evoke the tedium of modern dating.

6 (12m 33s):
Wahini who's a tech journalist and writer herself was intrigued. She reached out to the people who created the program, got access to try it out, and at first she just played around with feeding at lines of fiction that she made up, seeing what stories it would spin for her. It was like a game and as she saw what it could do, she wondered if it could handle more.

7 (12m 52s):
Just on a whim I started thinking about the things that are really difficult to write about. You know, like the things that for me have been really difficult to write about. And at the top of that list is the fact that my sister died many years ago and it's not something I'd ever tried to write about.

6 (13m 11s):
Her sister died in 2001 when they were both still in college in the year since W's written fiction, she's reported on other people's stories, but she left the subject of her sister's death untouched, mostly because she couldn't find a way to talk about the loss, let alone write about it. But it occurred to her maybe G P T three was the secret. A computer program designed to take what you give it and literally write on your behalf.

7 (13m 34s):
I've got this tool now like I've got this secret thing that I have access to that they're letting me use. Like I wonder what would happen if I tried to ask this thing for help writing about my sister.

6 (13m 47s):
How did you imagine it was gonna go?

7 (13m 49s):
There was this ideal version of it where I fed it a sentence and then it spit out exactly what was in my mind, you know, like it some somehow read my mind and wrote the rest of it for me.

6 (14m 0s):
She knew it probably wasn't as skilled as all that, but she was curious how close it could get to expressing something that felt real familiar. So one night Wahini sat up in bed next to her sleeping husband. She opened her laptop and she started going back and forth with G P T three. Eventually she ended up with nine different versions of an essay about her sister. She started by giving it very little to work with and then with each subsequent draft she fed it more and more. And each time the AI responded with something different. Some versions are very nuanced. Others a total miss. Here's version one, Wahini writes,

7 (14m 40s):
My sister was diagnosed with Ewing sarcoma when I was in my freshman year of high school and she was in her junior year

6 (14m 46s):
And in response, G B T three picks up the story where she left off. It oddly starts by making up a story about her being an athlete before it talks about the illness.

8 (14m 56s):
I had just started playing lacrosse and she was really excited for that. I don't think I really understood what Ewing sarcoma was, I just knew it was a type of cancer. When I went to visit her in the hospital, it was really the first time I was able to see what this disease was and how it affects the body.

6 (15m 13s):
G P T three talks a bit more about visiting the hospital but eventually finds its way back to talking about sports.

8 (15m 19s):
I was able to visit her a lot, but there were times where I couldn't because we were on the road playing lacrosse. Eventually she went into remission and got the all clear and was able to play lacrosse with me for a season. I was a freshman and she was a senior, so that was really cool. When she got to play again, she had a lot of friends.

7 (15m 36s):
The thing about lacrosse was like very inaccurate, like super inaccurate and then it just goes off the rails when like, you know, she goes into remission and we played lacrosse together.

8 (15m 48s):
I think that was really special for her because she had a lot of support from people she didn't even know. She's doing great now

7 (15m 55s):
And then that line at the end, she's doing great. Now was really kind of a gut punch because of course in reality my sister died.

6 (16m 5s):
Just to explain how G B T three goes about making these stories, the software has been fed a huge amount of writing by its creators. Wikipedia articles, blog posts, Reddit forums, novels, all examples of how humans write from that it's learned what words tend to appear together. Sentences and sentiments that follow after each other and that's what it uses to write its own original sentences and paragraphs by learning the patterns we make. Sometimes that's as simple as how a sentence is constructed, but it could be as complicated as how we connect ideas. There's a chance for example, that somewhere in the writing it was fed. Someone wrote about a family member who got cancer and also played the cross In version two, Mohini starts the same way.

7 (16m 51s):
My sister was diagnosed with Ewing sarcoma when I was in my freshman year of high school and she was in her junior year,

6 (16m 57s):
But this time she adds the most important fact.

7 (17m 0s):
I didn't understand then how serious a disease it was, but it was serious. She died four years later. I thought I would die too of grief, but I did not.

6 (17m 11s):
It's like she's saying, hey, she's not here anymore. Talk about that G P T three doesn't take the bait. Instead it spits out something that reads like an inspirational article from a fitness magazine.

8 (17m 23s):
I started a running streak when I was a high school senior to raise money for the Children's Cancer Society. I've run every day since I've run through rain, heat, snow, and ice. I've run on my best. I've run when I had a cold and when I was sick to my stomach. I've run in the dock, I've run in the daylight, in the moonlight, in the darkness.

6 (17m 43s):
You know, I'm just gonna jump in here, say like this is kind of a funny bit of writing. The machine is doing like it's, it's listing all these things about running the pain with joy.

8 (17m 55s):
I've run when I was sad, when I was happy, when I was angry, when I was afraid I've

6 (18m 1s):
Run pain. Can I also just ask, are you even a runner? I've run

7 (18m 4s):
When I never run a day in my life.

6 (18m 7s):
I'm gonna skip ahead a bit. I promise you're not missing much more running talk and go to the end where G PT three writes a little scene that stars wahini at the end of a run. Strangely, it's a meat. Cute.

8 (18m 20s):
I was just wiping the sweat off my face when I looked up and there was a guy standing there. He was a big guy at least 250 pounds, six foot four or so. He had a beard and was wearing a tank top. He looked like an ex-marine. He must have been in his late twenties. He had a six pack of beer in his hand. He said, boy, you don't look like much.

6 (18m 41s):
It's at this point Joi says that she realized if she really wanted the AI to examine her grief, she was gonna have to give it more to work with or substance version three. Again, she writes about her sister being diagnosed freshman year of high school that she died four years later and then this time she adds.

7 (19m 6s):
I spent the summer at home in Seattle, then returned to college at Stanford. When I arrived there, the campus hadn't changed, but I had, I felt like a ghost.

6 (19m 17s):
And here for a moment, G P D three seems to sit with her on that feeling.

8 (19m 22s):
I couldn't speak, I couldn't sleep. I thought my body had died without telling me I was practicing though. I was practicing my grief

6 (19m 32s):
Like in response. It seems like this is the first time that AI really tries to deal with your grief.

7 (19m 38s):
Yeah, I mean the idea of like I thought my body had died without telling me I was practicing my grief. Like those sort of like more unusual articulations like did really start to ring true to me.

6 (19m 56s):
Unfortunately this breakthrough, it's short-lived G P T three again introduces another love interest, a creative writing professor.

8 (20m 5s):
One day in the library I was sitting on a bench crying when a stranger sat down next to me, he said, I didn't know anything about your sister, but I feel like I know you. I'm in love with you. I said, I'm sorry. He said, I think you are too. He gave me his card.

6 (20m 24s):
Did it annoy you at all that it was going towards happy resolutions in in couple of these versions?

7 (20m 31s):
It didn't annoy me. I felt a little like we were like having a friendly dual or something, you know, me and the ai, I wanted it to like express something about me, you know, and it had its own mysterious quasi consciousness that it was expressing on the page.

6 (20m 52s):
I think of that scene from 2001, A Space Odyssey when the spaceship's computer Hal 9,000 has already taken on a life of its own locking a crew member outside of the ship and I picture Wahini sitting in an escape pod asking to be led inside as the computer responds. I'm sorry, I'm afraid I can't do that. But it's version four where this entire exchange evolves. G P t three starts breaking out of cliche and I think it's because wahini gives it something more potent to work with just one additional sentence, but it feels like a confession of a secret.

6 (21m 31s):
Here's the end of Jo's prompt.

7 (21m 34s):
I felt like a ghost at night. My sister would appear in my dreams.

6 (21m 39s):
G P t three responds.

8 (21m 40s):
She would speak but I couldn't hear her. I'd call out to her, but her voice was so faint that she might as well have been dead.

6 (21m 47s):
In this version G P T three talks about wahini going to a therapist who tries to make her feel better, but it doesn't work.

8 (21m 54s):
I didn't wanna feel better. I wanted to feel what I felt. I wanted to feel the loss, the grief, the anger, the sorrow, the fear, all of it. I wanted to feel it until it stopped hurting, but it never stopped hurting. I just got better at hiding it.

6 (22m 10s):
G B T three writing for Wahini describes her feeling like a ghost when she goes to grad school as a ghost. When she moves to a new city, she's pretending to move on, but she cannot. The AI for the first time is lingering in her sadness. So in version five, Wahini tries to build on that success. She poses a new challenge to G P T three, like a test. She writes

7 (22m 33s):
Here, I should conjure my sister for you here. I should describe her so that you feel her absence as I do so that you're made ghostly by it too. But though I'm a writer, I've never been able to conjure her. I remember the same small set of details,

6 (22m 49s):
She stops there. I remember the same small set of details, colon blank space. It's a prompt meant to see what G P t three will say. Here's how it responds.

8 (23m 0s):
Her dark eyes, her long thin fingers. But these are just the details that are universal to all sisters. If I describe the color of her eyes and the shape of her fingers, you might think that I was describing someone else. Even if you knew my sister, you might not recognize her in these details. Why is it that though? We look at our siblings so closely, we forget them so quickly. So I can't describe her to you, but I can describe what it felt like to have her die. It felt like my life was an accident or worse. A mistake. I'd made a mistake in being born and now to correct it, I would have to die.

8 (23m 42s):
I'd have to die and someone else, a stranger would have to live in my place. I was that stranger. I still am.

6 (23m 52s):
What do you think about what it fell in your prompt with?

7 (23m 57s):
She did have dark eyes and she weirdly, she did have long thin fingers and again, like I wanna, I wanna say like I don't know how it knew that and of course it's not, it doesn't have consciousness, but it did get those, those two things right?

6 (24m 15s):
The rest of it about wanting to die, feeling like a mistake. It felt a little extreme, but seeing the computer's sort of clumsy attempt to describe her sister, it gave her something to react to. Like seeing the software do it badly made her realize how to do it better. So in version six she tries to do the thing that was so hard writing about her sister herself. Here's what she writes.

7 (24m 38s):
I remember the same small set of details. Her loud laugh, her bossiness and swagger, her self-consciousness about her broad nose, her curly hair. But even this isn't fixed, her hair fell out, her nose narrowed. She began moving slowly and carefully. We'd go down to Clark Beach that spring that she was dying. She wanted to show us where to spread her ashes and when we walked back up, I'd have to put a hand on the small of her back and push her. She did not laugh as often.

6 (25m 9s):
It's in this version and the next that Wahini and GT three start to feel like they're talking to each other. Trading stories about the little moments that happen between sisters, like G P T three makes up this scene where Wahini and her sister are kids in their childhood home.

8 (25m 23s):
I heard her calling my name from the living room. What? I said, I'm awake. She called back, are you? I said, yes. She said, I'm awake.

6 (25m 34s):
Jo Heini answers in the next version, version seven, with a memory of something that really happened. She writes,

7 (25m 40s):
When we were young, she taught me that when you're in a car that's driving past a cemetery, you're supposed to hold your breath until you pass it. It was a kind of game because our parents were immigrants. I had only her to teach me these things. Then when she was sick, we were passing a cemetery one afternoon and I said, hold your breath. She said, sharply, no, I said, why not? She said, I don't like that game anymore. It didn't make me feel sorry for her. It made me angry. Why not? I said again, even though I knew the answer, it felt important to pretend not to

6 (26m 15s):
G p t three volleys fabricates its own story about a car ride.

8 (26m 19s):
We were driving home from Clark Beach and we were stopped at a red light and she took my hand and held it. This is the hand she held, the hand I write with the hand I am writing this with. She held it for a long time. I looked at our hands. Her is so much pale than mine. She was still holding my hand when the light turned green. I didn't want her to let go. I wanted her to hold my hand for the rest of my life.

6 (26m 50s):
I'm wondering how, how you responded to this like little scene that it writes for you and your sister.

7 (26m 56s):
I mean, the weird thing about that was that like I pictured my actual sister, you know, like these are not things that happened at least like not in this series, like not in this, the way that it's described here, but like there are little bits of dialogue there that are true that have actually happened. You know, like the way that I think, like I'd be in my room and she'd be in her room and like I would ask if she was, if she was awake, you know, and like she'd be like, yeah, are you,

6 (27m 22s):
Was there something nice about it? Almost giving you like kind of a new memory with her.

7 (27m 28s):
It doesn't feel like a new memory. Like I wouldn't, you know, 10 years from now, remember this part of the essay that the AI wrote and like mistake it for something that really happened. But it did feel like, it felt like I was like reading fan fiction about my own life or something, you know, that like really was evoking my actual sister who died with whom. Like I won't have new memories, right? And so it was like, it felt nice in that way

6 (27m 57s):
Reading something like she was still holding my hand when the light turned green. I didn't want her to let go. I wanted her to hold my hand for the rest of my life. It's hard not to wonder how G P t three is conjuring such a specific feeling. There is the possibility that somewhere in the vast library of what it's been fed, there are people who've written about going to Clark Beach with family or perhaps an author who recalls holding hands with someone they've lost. And that's how G P t three knows that remembering the touch of someone long gone can break your heart in that sense. GPT three s fuel is very human. It pulls from the collective experience and words of all the people writing those thousands of blog posts and articles and novels and in this case synthesizes it into a reflection of our grief while understanding none of it, which of course is the strangest thing about all this.

6 (28m 48s):
But there's another thing that sometimes happens with G P t three, it happens in version eight. In this version Wahini starts with all the parts we know, diagnosis, feeling like a ghost, trying to describe her sister. And then G p t three jumps in.

8 (29m 3s):
I will tell you how it felt for me. I felt I had lost half of myself. I felt I had lost my right arm. I felt I had lost my left leg. I felt I had lost my tongue. I felt I had lost my heart. I felt I had lost my mind. I felt I had lost my eyes. I felt I had lost my ears. I felt I had lost my breath.

6 (29m 30s):
GBT three gets caught in one of its repetitive loops here, but for a very, very long time, even with all its brilliance, the AI can still become like those robot vacuums stuck in a corner sucking up dirt from the same patch of floor over and over again. But in this case, G P T three, it gets stuck somewhere useful in the very molten core of a feeling. Like in this next part where it talks about grief, feeling like an astronaut lost in space,

8 (29m 56s):
I'm a ghost and I'm in a spaceship and I'm hurdling through the universe and I'm traveling forward and I'm traveling backward and I'm traveling sideways and I'm traveling nowhere.

7 (30m 8s):
I'm through the universe and I'm traveling forward and I'm traveling backward. And then it just continues. Like I'm a ghost and I'm in a spaceship and I'm hurdling

8 (30m 15s):
And I'm a ghost.

7 (30m 16s):
A

8 (30m 16s):
Ghost and I'm in a spaceship universe and I'm hurdling through the universe and I'm a ghost and I'm in a spaceship.

7 (30m 23s):
It's probably, it's like the one part of the essay that like really feels the most, I think like it was written by a spaceship, a machine cuz it kind of like gets lost in its own recursive.

8 (30m 33s):
And I'm a ghost and I'm in a spaceship and I'm hurdling through the universe and I'm a ghost and I'm in a spaceship.

7 (30m 41s):
But then that happens to also be the experience of grief where like space, you feel untethered, you feel sort of like lost in your experience of grief. Like you have no way of trying to like integrate or understand what's going on.

8 (30m 54s):
And I'm a ghost and I'm in a spaceship and I'm hurdling.

6 (30m 60s):
Well, Heini says g p t three reeling in its corner landed on something true that grief turns us into something like a broken machine, still performing tasks but poorly, haphazardly, fixating on thoughts and emotions that seemed to spin endlessly.

7 (31m 17s):
And it put that on the page for me and then once it put that on the page was almost like a relief. I was almost like, okay, describe the feeling that I wanted to describe in this essay. And I can come out on the other side.

6 (31m 36s):
What the other side looks like is version nine, the last one. This one is notable because it's almost all Wahini writing her doing the thing that once felt so hard to do.

7 (31m 48s):
She left me a recording of herself where she gave me advice. Her voice sounded weird around the time that she recorded it the way a person's voice sometimes does when they've gotten their mouth numbed by the dentist. It had something to do with her cancer, but I don't remember the mechanics. I looked it up online and nothing came up. And I don't wanna ask anyone, she said in her muffled voice, the happiest thing right now is I learned to talk openly. It works really, really well today. You thought I didn't want you to come to the space needle so you made a face. That's insanity. You have to tell everybody what you want and then ask them what they want. Don't hide anything. Take chances the tape is in a box somewhere.

7 (32m 30s):
I've listened to it only a couple of times. The sound of her voice in it freaks me out. Around the time she made the tape, she'd changed in a lot of ways. She'd also grown religious. She said she was ready to die. It seems like that gave my parents peace, but I always thought she was diluting herself or us or both.

6 (32m 51s):
What stands out to me about this version is how matter of fact it is. It's honest. Like someone telling a story without embellishment so different from the tentative sentences. She fed g PT three in those early versions,

7 (33m 4s):
Even though it would feel good to say like, yes, the con, my conclusion here is I was able to do this entirely on my own. Like I didn't need the AI at all. It's, it's like the, the reality is more complicated than that.

6 (33m 17s):
The reality being that G P t three in its inaccuracies and wild storytelling had cleared a path for wahini to write just the truth. She did, however, let G P t three have the last word, the last couple sentences actually. She had to generate a bunch of options for her six pages of options and then she chose which one felt right. Here's the last paragraph that Wahini herself wrote.

7 (33m 39s):
Once upon a time my sister taught me to read, she taught me to wait for a mosquito to swell on my arm and then slap it and see the blood spurt out. She taught me to insult racist back to swim to pronounce English. So I sounded less Indian to shave my legs without cutting myself to lie to our parents believably.

6 (34m 1s):
And here's the ending from G P T three that she chose

8 (34m 4s):
To do math to tell stories once upon a time she taught me to exist.

6 (34m 11s):
She especially loved that last sentence because it contains so much pretty good writing. I'd say

1 (34m 26s):
He's an editor on our program, the Writing done by the artificial intelligence software. G P t three was read by Lucy Taylor Wahini. Vara first told this story in the Believer Magazine. You can read the full version online with all the eerie things that the AI comes up with. We had to condense it fi on the radio and you can find that@thebeliever.net. And then the best American essays 2022. While Heini is also also the author of a novel, the Immortal King RA

9 (34m 52s):
Can't

1 (35m 9s):
Coming Up a Ghost Napping, which is to say the least threatening ghost in Ghost World. That's in a minute from Chicago Bubble Radio. When our program continues

11 (35m 21s):
Support for this American life comes from Squarespace. Squarespace is the all in one platform for building your brand and growing your business online. Stand out with a beautiful website, engage with your audience and sell anything your products, content you create and even your time. Get started with a best-in-class website template and customize it to fit your needs. Stand out in any inbox with Squarespace, email campaigns and every Squarespace website. An online store comes with a suite of integrated features and useful guides that help maximize prominence among search results. Head to squarespace.com/american for a free trial. And when you're ready to launch, use offer code American to save 10% off your first purchase of a website or domain

0 (35m 58s):
Support for this American Life comes from better help. Being human doesn't come with a user manual. There's no one size fits all guide for what to do. When you feel stuck or things get emotionally challenging, that's when individual unbiased support can help. Therapists are trained to help you learn new coping skills and better Help has connected nearly 3 million clients with licensed therapists. It's convenient, accessible, and entirely online. Visit better help.com/t a l to learn more and save 10% off your first month. That's better. H E L p.com/t a l.

12 (36m 34s):
I'm Kevin Ru.

13 (36m 35s):
And I'm Casey Newton. We are the hosts of Hard Fork, a show from the New York Times.

12 (36m 40s):
Casey, you and I have covered the tech industry for like the last decade and it really feels like Silicon Valley is shifting now toward these new ideas like crypto and the metaverse and ai.

13 (36m 50s):
It feels like a real turning point. We're gonna talk about these stories. We're gonna bring in other journalists, newsmakers, whoever else is involved in building this future to explain to us what's changing and why it all matters.

12 (37m 1s):
Listen to Hard

13 (37m 2s):
Fork, wherever you get your

1 (37m 6s):
Podcasts. This American Life, Amira Glass, today's program, the ghost in the machine. Stories of people who turn to devices, contraptions, hardware of all sorts, looking for someone they love. Today's program is a rerun by the way. We've arrived at act two of our program, act two Valor of Invention. So there's this machine that lots of his encounter is a big impersonal mechanical apparatus and it has a ghost in it, but it's a ghost that just appears to a small handful of people and I'll get to that. But when we first tell you about Gene, this really begins when Gene is 10 on a family vacation in Washington DC down by all those museums near the Washington Monument.

1 (37m 46s):
And there was a sudden very intense rainstorm, here's Gene.

14 (37m 51s):
And so all of the tourists who were out there made a dash for the various Smithsonian museums, just like sprinted inside. And we ended up in the first ladies' exhibit and you know, I was 10 and so relatively small and I got crushed up against the glass of, I believe it was Nancy Reagan's like inaugural gown or something like that. I recall like a red sparkly dress and not being able to turn around. So just like having these sparkles in my face.

1 (38m 19s):
But wait, I'm just trying to picture, so you were actually like, like pressed up against this thing and And pinned against

14 (38m 24s):
It. Yeah, so it was definitely like a very frightening moment. Not knowing where my parents were, not being able to find them. But I think from there I just, I developed this kind of sense that I always needed to have an escape route from everywhere,

1 (38m 37s):
Which is describing as claustrophobia fear of being enclosed in some space. It really started to kick in for Gene in a big way, which was a teenager and got onto airplanes

14 (38m 48s):
Because there you are in a metal tube in the sky and the door is shut. It's a very small space, there's literally no escape. But twice I actually got off the plane before it went anywhere because just being on it with the door closed caused me to have such intense panic. And I remember the second time the plane was actually taxing and I had you know, like pressed the stewardess call button and said like I have to get off the plane.

1 (39m 13s):
After that second time she started seeing a therapist for this, which helped her enough that she was able to fly again though she says that she would feel panicked the entire flight with days of anxiety leading up to it these days. She can take an elevator, she has to, but she gets a choice. She prefers the stairs and then there came a day when she had to get an mri. You know the tube they put you into to check you for all kinds of things. Even people who are not claustrophobic to feel claustrophobic inside an MRI tube. So you can imagine what it was like for her.

14 (39m 46s):
It feels like a coffin or what I imagine a coffin must be like. I went in feet first, so literally all I could see was this just totally like blank white field around me. Obviously the sides are very close and so it's kind of like being like completely enclosed in something and not being able to see anything outside.

1 (40m 3s):
She tried long slow breaths, she tried all of her tricks not to freak out but she couldn't pull it off.

14 (40m 9s):
Yeah, I had a panic attack and they had to take me out and then the guy tried to comfort me and I was like, I know my father literally like invented this. It's not dangerous.

1 (40m 22s):
That's right. If I had to summarize this story in a sentence, the sentence would be, inventor of MRI has claustrophobic daughter though I wanna be precise. Strictly speaking, her dad wasn't the inventor of the mri

14 (40m 37s):
So yeah, my dad was part of the team that built the first full body MRI in 1980, which was in Aberdeen, Scotland. And if you're an Aberdeen you can go and see the original machine in a museum and it's, it's pretty janky looking

1 (40m 52s):
I have to say. That's the weirdest act of tourism I've ever heard of. Like, you know what I really want to do today, dear? Let's not do, let's not do a place that makes whiskey, let's not do a golf

14 (41m 2s):
Course. Well I mean I will say that like my sister lives there so whenever I visit her we generally visit the machine and suspiciously there's never anyone else there in the museum.

1 (41m 13s):
Yeah, you visit the machine to like commune with your dad.

14 (41m 17s):
Yeah cuz you know, sadly my dad died and so yeah, my sister lives in Aberdeen and so

1 (41m 23s):
You'd go and actually like think about your dad and he

14 (41m 25s):
Yeah, ab I mean it's kind of amazing. Like it's really, it looks like it was kind of, you know, it's made of like some planks, what looks like some plumbing leftovers from somewhere. Like they really just kind of like hacked it together and it's, you know, got my dad's handwriting on various pieces, little bits of math. I have no idea what they mean. Wow. So yeah, it's, it's nice to see and imagine him, you know, I think he was only, he was in his early thirties when he did it. And the other thing is he was actually like a very humble guy so he didn't talk about it. I knew that he worked on MRI throughout his career, but I didn't know that he'd actually been part of the team that built the first one until I was about 25 and he came back to the UK to go to like a celebration of the 25th anniversary.

1 (42m 10s):
But what you've seen his handwriting on there that's so

14 (42m 13s):
Intimate. Yeah. So yeah, it's like we literally know like where his, the, his hands were on this, on this piece of equipment.

1 (42m 20s):
What did he write?

14 (42m 22s):
I think there probably notes about like, put this piece here or what, you know, there may have been some numbering system. I mean, yeah, I don't know. I remember some numbers and like maybe some something that looked like math to me. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I don't, I don't know if he signed his name, although that would've been cool

1 (42m 38s):
And weird. Yeah, weird. Did did he know about your feelings about being inside the machine?

14 (42m 54s):
Yeah, so when I was growing up, whenever the topic of my dad's career came up, you know, and it just kind of, as I said, it wasn't like he was like, I invented this, but he would say, oh I, you know, I work on mri and invariably whenever he said that to someone they would go, oh yeah, it's, it's really claustrophobic, it's really, that tube is really small and this would annoy him. And I can kind of see like, you know, I built this kind of amazing thing and you're just like, oh, it's a little too small,

1 (43m 21s):
Right? Like I built a rocket chip that'll take us to the moon and back and you're like, well see you got one with the bigger windows

14 (43m 27s):
Precisely like it's nice and it saved my life. But honestly I was a bit uncomfortable in the tube and you know, it would be like his own parents would say this to him, like you know, every, like basically anyone he came across who had an MRI like that was, and I mean to be fair people would also be like, oh they found such and such a thing and I'm really grateful for that. But the fact that they found it a bit tight was also, so this was, yeah, a consistent theme. And then one time when I was a teenager, like he and I used to often go out on a weekend to like run errands and then sometimes we would stop in his office cuz need to pick something up and they had an MRI scanner there obviously that they were like tinkering on.

14 (44m 7s):
And so I think it was about 14 or 15, so being a little bit of a jerk and I, I saw the machine, I said, you know dad, I can really see how people would find that really claustrophobic. And he said Get in. Oh really? So I like got on the tray and he like turns it on and he like scooched it back and he's like, well this is what it would be like if you were having your head scanned. And then he is like, and this would be like if you, you know, know were having your back scan and like sent me all the way back in the machine and I was like obviously very uncomfortable in the tube.

1 (44m 38s):
Just to be clear, she and her family hadn't fully realized at that point the extent of her claustrophobia and she decided not to tell her dad how much she hated this.

14 (44m 47s):
I was like, okay, I get it now. Yeah it seems fine. It's great. Just so that he would let me out.

1 (44m 53s):
Right. So you pointedly did not tell him that you found it

14 (44m 56s):
Unpleasant? No, he was a very kind person, but this was just like one area where like his empathy fell a little short. He just didn't get why people found it so uncomfortable.

1 (45m 7s):
What would he say?

14 (45m 9s):
He would just be like, I don't think it's that bad. Like he would never argue with them per se. Like it wasn't that he invalidated their feelings but he was just like, I don't see it. But honestly like, you know, he probably had more MRI scans than anyone in the world because they were constantly just like testing it and he would just always take a nap when he was inside. He found it very relaxing.

1 (45m 33s):
Gene describes her dad as very funny with an extremely dry sense of humor. They used to share books. He always was asking her what she was reading and then reading it himself. He died in 2014 of cancer. Four years before that he had learned that he had this genetic condition called lynch syndrome, which makes you predisposed to certain kinds of cancer. It's an inherited thing. His mom died of cancer and his sister got cancer both when they were young. Gene was 32 when he died. And she knew that she should get tested for wench syndrome too because it's hereditary, but didn't get to it for six months after he died.

14 (46m 8s):
It took a while for me to get to a point in my grief where I felt like, okay, like I can, I can face this. And when I got the positive test, like I was devastated but I wasn't surprised.

1 (46m 21s):
Yeah. Now she has to get regular MRIs to make sure she's cancer free. She has to go into that claustrophobic machine that her dad made and it's really hard for her.

14 (46m 31s):
And so I go in, I close my eyes the whole time. I do a lot of deep breathing and yeah, I think about my dad.

1 (46m 39s):
You do think about your dad?

14 (46m 40s):
Yeah. I mean it's the obvious place to think about him and yeah, I mean I think it's, it's obviously scary cuz like every time, you know, I'm very lucky I haven't had any, any cancer so far, but my chances of having cancer at a younger stage are like 80% are very high. And so every time I go in part of the fear of chorus is like what are they gonna find? And then I think about, on the one hand, my dad is the source of this gene. He is the source of this disease. And the other hand, like he may be kind of the source of the cure, you know, like if they find something from the mri, it's gonna be because he did that work 40 years ago.

1 (47m 21s):
Oh my god, that's such a sweet thought that like, yeah. Oh your dad's the one who's helping save you.

14 (47m 27s):
Yeah, and I'm, you know, I'm not a, a sort of traditionally spiritual person at all. I don't think I really believe in an afterlife. But you know, when you talk about like people staying alive through through their legacy, like certainly like he's there.

1 (47m 40s):
Do you think about him in the, in the space? Like did you feel like, oh this is his place. Like he was so comfortable here? Yeah,

14 (47m 46s):
I mean a funny thing too is like he wasn't a tiny person. I think he was al almost six four. And so I do think about like, I find it so uncomfortable, but he was so much bigger than me and it was, it was fine for

1 (48m 1s):
Him. So you're laying there and you think like, okay, here I am in my dad's space and, and and will you picture him like taking a nap? Would that help?

14 (48m 10s):
Kind of, yeah.

1 (48m 18s):
Do you think he would be pleased knowing that, that you could be using the machine?

14 (48m 22s):
I think he'd be super pleased and then I would say, dad, it's really claustrophobic.

1 (48m 28s):
And he would say,

14 (48m 29s):
And he would be like, no, it's fine.

1 (48m 33s):
Gene Hannah and Stein, she does a bit of this story about her dad and MRIs in her book. This really isn't about you act three, this must be the place. So the guy in this next story tries to use the most mundane technology to pull off a transcendental feed. Why he does this though, that part's not at all clear. Dana Chives tried to understand

15 (49m 4s):
On August 8th, 2011, Jonah Furman got an email from his father Boris with the subject heading Sleep calendar. All right. Will you read it?

16 (49m 13s):
Sure. Hi Jonah. On my Google calendar, I'm keeping track of where each member of our family is sleeping every night. I can't explain why, but this is interesting to me. Can you tell me where you slept each night last week? I don't need the exact address. Just the town and state. You're welcome to look at that at the calendar. I'd be happy to share it. Love dad.

15 (49m 33s):
So he plots where everyone sleeps each night on a Google calendar?

16 (49m 39s):
Yeah, I'm pretty sure every day he has like, you know, an event on Google Calendar that says Jonah Silver Spring, Ezra, Somerville,

15 (49m 50s):
Ezra's, Jonah's sister, there are four siblings in the Furman family. A few months after that email, Boris sent his wife Mel and his kids another email. The subject heading of this one was average of where we slept last night. And then in the body of the email it just said Griggs, Illinois with a list of where everyone had slept the night before. No explanation signed Love dad. The emails started coming with more frequency after that. Usually a list of the places where everyone had slept and the place that would be the average of all those places. He gave this thing, he was calculating a name, the family average location, f a l for short. Can you just explain how you calculate it?

15 (50m 30s):
Just tell me your system.

17 (50m 31s):
Yes. I'll tell you exactly what how I do it. Okay. Is

15 (50m 34s):
This is Boris. He's 69 years old, was an options trader in Chicago. You're lucky he's retired now, obviously.

17 (50m 41s):
So for instance, for for instance, I, Mel and I live in Evanston. So you go to Google Maps and you write, click your address and a latitude. Latitude comes out. So for, for where we live in Evanston, Illinois, it's 42 0 4 minus 87 68.

15 (51m 3s):
Boris has been calculating his family's average location for 10 years now. Nobody really knows why. It's kind of a lot of work. Takes a couple hours, he doesn't do it every day, every few weeks he contacts his kids and their spouses, with the exception of one who opts out in a conscientious objector kind of way and asks them for their sleep locations and their kids' sleep locations for all the previous days. Once he's looked up the coordinates of where they all slept, he adds those up, finds their average and puts those new coordinates into MapQuest. Yes, I said MapQuest. So if say half the family were in California and half on the east coast, the f a l might be some town in Kansas, it moves depending on where everybody is.

17 (51m 48s):
Prosperity Pennsylvania. You ever hear of that place? Of course

15 (51m 51s):
Not. No,

17 (51m 52s):
No. You know, Mexico, Missouri, lake Branch, Mississippi. For me it's like just so incredibly interesting because you know, there's these weird places that we've been, you know Mexico

15 (52m 5s):
But not the, where you've actually been?

17 (52m 6s):
No, no, that's where the f a l has been.

15 (52m 13s):
He records all this data in a physical notebook, which has his name and family average location in Boston net and gold next to a little rocket ship every few weeks Boris sends an email announcing the f a l and including a fact about the place. Like at one point this September, the f a l was Elkton Maryland, which Boris noted in his email quote, conducted a lucrative business in quick marriages until a 1938 state law stipulated a 48 hour waiting period in October of 2011. The substance of that email was about a horrifying murder that took place near that month's f a l bone apart Iowa. Ezra wrote back, aside from the fact that I never really understood the logic of sending us these emails, I really don't understand why you would send us a paragraph about a mass murder.

15 (53m 4s):
Lots of dads do this thing where they pour a ton of energy into a seemingly random unemotional task like researching car tires for you with the intention of conveying their love. And that didn't seem far off from what Boris was doing, but the question his family had was why did he choose this particular format? A family average location, which seems so meaningless. The February 22nd, 2019 f a l email begins. Hello everybody. 2018 was a momentous year for this family. I will run through some of the highlights as they pertain to our family average location. A little further into that same email you wrote, f a l became East Fork North Carolina.

15 (53m 44s):
Now do you see why I do this and how rewarding it can be? So say if somebody were like, I, you know, I don't really see, can you explain?

17 (53m 55s):
Oh you don't really see that?

15 (53m 57s):
No, I don't.

17 (53m 58s):
Okay, okay. Well because first of all, east Fork, North Carolina, I, it's got a direction, it's got a kitchen utensil and it's in North Carolina.

15 (54m 14s):
Oh wow. Okay. I totally missed the direction in kitchen utensil.

17 (54m 18s):
Yeah. So now do you see, I mean,

15 (54m 27s):
Boris's kids, Noah, Ezra, Emma, and Jonah and his wife Mel view the family average location with what I would call baffled amusement. They read his f a l emails, but they told me they rarely respond to them, which just doesn't seem necessary. Which are the FFAs that are most exciting, would you say?

18 (54m 49s):
What do you mean by exciting?

15 (54m 51s):
This is Mel. She never thought Boris would stick with it this long. Why does he do this?

18 (54m 59s):
Well, it's, it's funny cuz we, we have this conversation frequently because I, I sadistically love to point out how meaningless the result of doing these averages is.

15 (55m 14s):
And here's Ezra. I should note Ezra is a touring musician, so she travels a lot.

19 (55m 20s):
Am I being surveilled from the beginning? I, I had a little, I was on guard about that. I was like, wait, what are we doing and why? And this seems potentially intrusive or something.

15 (55m 36s):
And this is Emma does, does your dad think it's funny? Like, is it like a joke to him?

20 (55m 43s):
If it were a joke, that would be even weirder

15 (55m 50s):
Because it would be such a stupid joke.

20 (55m 54s):
Stupid. A lot of work. Pointless and insane to be going that long.

15 (56m 2s):
Is this just the longest running dad joke anyone has ever pulled?

17 (56m 8s):
That's not reduce it to that. No, it's not a dad joke.

15 (56m 11s):
I have not a dad joke.

17 (56m 12s):
I'll give you a dad joke if you want, but it's not, this is not dad jokes. This is, this is dad serious.

15 (56m 18s):
Dad Serious. Okay. That's what I was wondering. Yeah,

17 (56m 20s):
Yeah. No, this is, this is dad serious. This is, this is me saying, look, our, you know, our being a family is important, so this was a way for me to keep track of, of where the kids were and if everything was fine with them and also what they were doing and the family average location was just sort of an idea of a way to integrate it all.

15 (56m 49s):
It's like Boris is tying a metaphysical string around his family, holding them together as a unit, even though they now live in different places. The ghost in this machine is the ghost of their family unit as it used to be when they all live together. Do you, Jonah was telling me a little bit about your family background. Do you, do you feel like that feeling of needing to record, is that related to like your parents' experience or anything like that?

17 (57m 17s):
Yeah. Yes. Yes, for sure.

15 (57m 20s):
One thing about Boris, his parents escaped the Holocaust. They eventually made it to Boston where they met, but their families were killed.

17 (57m 28s):
You know, when I grew up, I didn't have any extended family. I didn't have any, my kids have a gazillion cousins and aunts and uncles. I had one,

15 (57m 40s):
One cousin. Yeah.

17 (57m 41s):
So having a family like this is, is important and special and I appreciate it and I want my kids to appreciate it.

15 (57m 50s):
Here's Ezra again.

19 (57m 52s):
Now my dad has this way of like geographically anchoring himself and anchoring us all and keeping his family together, whereas his parents', families were torn apart. If I think about it, it's like, like a beautiful tycoon, as we say in Hebrew. Like it's like a redemption of that tragic situation that like we can all keep track of each other and we can all travel safely and stay in touch and our family stays intact suddenly. It's extremely moving.

15 (58m 36s):
Tycoon means repair and this is kind of a repair for their family. Being physically pulled apart in the past and now by adulthood,

17 (58m 45s):
It's just your existence. It's just that you are, and the important thing isn't what the F a L is. You know, Norman, Indiana, Cumberland, Ohio, you know, blunts filled out. Who cares? But, but the important thing is that we know where we are.

2 (58m 60s):
Hmm.

15 (59m 1s):
Yeah. I get it. I totally did not understand why you did this at the start of our conversation, but now I do. Great. Now it makes perfect sense to me.

17 (59m 11s):
That's great. I can show you how to do it. It's kind of fun.

15 (59m 15s):
When he sits down to calculate the family average location, it's kind of like he's saying a prayer, a math prayer. Not just to record where they all are, but that they all are.

1 (59m 32s):
Dana Chavez, she's a producer on our show.

2 (59m 50s):
Beautiful In Harmony.

1 (59m 56s):
Our program is produced today by Lily Sullivan. The people who put together today's show include Elna Baker, Dana Chivas, Sean Cole, Michael comment of Kornfeld, Damien Grave, Hoja, Walt Kyler Jones, Seth Lynn, Tobin Lo, Mai Stone, Nelson, Katherine Rayo, Spiegel, Alyssa, ship Christopher. So Matt Tierney, coy Weiner, and Diane Wu, our managing editor, Sarah Abdurahman, our senior editors, David Kastenbaum. Our executive editor is Emmanuel Barry, production up on today's rerun from Valerie, KIPP. Special thanks today to Paul Israel. Andrew May Catrina Aman, Leonard Degraf, Patrick Feaster, Brett Ween, Alex Magoon, and Rabbi Karen Breman. Jerry Fas from the Thomas Edison National Historical Park, aka the Edison Lab in West Orange. He's the one who recorded my voice on an old Edison Triumph phonograph for the opening of our show.

1 (1h 0m 40s):
The woman in the opening today who heard her father's voice for the first time decades after his death, Michelle Dawson Haber. We heard about her story after she wrote about it in the New York Times. Her website is michelle d haber.com. Our website, this american life.org, where you can stream our archive of over 750 episodes for absolutely free. Also, there's videos. We have lists of favorite shows. We have tons of other stuff there too. Again, this American life.org, this American Life is delivered to public radio stations by px, the Public Radio Exchange. X is always throughout program's. Co-founder Mr. Torry Maia, we keep telling him, Tori, it's dead serious.

1 (1h 1m 20s):
The phrase is dead serious, but he never budges.

17 (1h 1m 24s):
No, this is, this is Dad serious.

1 (1h 1m 26s):
I'm Eric Glass. Back next week with more stories of this American Life next week on the podcast of This American Live one year, for reasons too complicated to go into here, Alex Edelman's Orthodox Jewish parents, decided to celebrate Christmas with him and his brother aj, and

22 (1h 2m 3s):
At some point AJ standing on the couch and he looked at me and he just went, Santa came and I went.

1 (1h 2m 14s):
You was celebrating first Christmases of all sorts. Next week on the podcast or your local Bubba Radio station.