0 (0s):
Support for this American life comes from Geico. Do you own or rent your home? Geico makes it easy to bundle your home and car insurance. It's a good thing too, because having a home is hard work. Go to geico.com. Get a quote and see how much you could save. geico.com. Easy a quick warning. There are curse words that are under beeped in today's episode of the show. If you prefer a beeped version, you can find that at our website, this American life.org

1 (30s):
From WBZ, Chicago, it's this American life. I'm Myra glass. Okay, let me catch you up. If you didn't hear last week show, we are picking up that story this week. And if you didn't hear it, I can bring you up to speed very quickly. Okay. There's a couple. The Mathis is Robin Raynaud and they're looking for a house and they tour a pretty nice one, but then they see some Confederate flags and the downstairs rooms you go upstairs and in a bedroom, there's something in a picture frame on the wall.

2 (58s):
So I look up at the pitcher and I lean in and look at I'm like, are you kidding me? This is the KKK application.

3 (1m 6s):
All of a sudden, I hear him cussing and coming down the stairs and he's like, we gotta go. Now

1 (1m 13s):
It turns out the house and the Confederate flags and the KKK application, we're owned by a police officer named Charles Anderson. He was on the police force in their town, Muskegon, Michigan, which is a town of 38,000 on the Western side of Michigan, like right on the lake Mathis is decided they're going to go public with this discovery mostly because Rob thinks if someday this officer pulls over a black couple and does something horrible. He doesn't wanna wish that he had said something wants to warn people brought by the way it's black rain is Mexican American. Officer Anderson is white. So they post about it on Facebook and it blows up people come forward. They say they've had troubling.

1 (1m 53s):
Run-ins with this officer in the past, officer Anderson is suspended or the police department investigates. Okay. So last time on our show, Ben Calhoun, one of our editors or producers here told the story of the mattresses. And we heard the testimony that officer Anderson gave to police investigators about the whole thing. And we heard from Addison's wife about how and why they got that KKK application. We also heard from a former pastor named duke styling, who told a story about what officer Anderson could be like as a cop or Anderson showed up at his mother's 59th birthday party and ended up pepper spraying a bunch of his older relatives.

4 (2m 27s):
Some people will fall off some, I can't see, you hear a bunch of screaming and trying to run, you know, like they will not causing any harm to him at all. Like nobody's crazy enough to hit a police. Like my family. We're not crazy. Nobody's going to put their hands on a police officer or anything like that today.

1 (2m 41s):
Hey, Ben turns to the story of the city's investigation into officer Anderson, which played out in a strange and surprising way that had serious consequences for the mattresses. Ben starts with act one. Chief Lewis adds it up. Here's Ben.

0 (2m 57s):
So there was the official

5 (2m 59s):
Into officer Anderson by the Muskegon police departments, internal affairs team. As you might've heard last week, that investigation went kind of soft on him. The investigator literally invited Anderson to quote, explain away the situation while that investigation was unfolding. The police chief Jeff Lewis was taking his own. Look at Anderson, a harder, more critical look turned out. Louis had questions about Anderson before any of this happened. In fact, a year before the Mathis has posted a video had popped up online that made Lewis worried about Anderson. And we watched this together. It was a cell phone video taken at night with a woman being pushed into the back of a Muskegon police car.

5 (3m 44s):
Anderson is standing behind the officer doing the pushing, and then you see two women walk up one younger and then an elderly woman right next to her, both black, like everyone in the video. But I understand that. So Anderson turns and he sees the women I'm sure.

6 (4m 1s):
And he has his side of the story. As you can see, he spins around and just without even trying to verbally deescalate or do anything, he just shoves this elderly woman to the ground, which is just inappropriate. It is wrong is just like out of bounds, period.

7 (4m 19s):
Well, you just need that lady like that. Hey, you pushed that all day. You should be ashamed of your,

6 (4m 25s):
I just can't justify that. I just can't. Anyway, I look at it. I can't even say he was technically right. Cause I don't remember ever throwing down a grandmother in my career. I just didn't feel like throwing a Gramma down

5 (4m 41s):
Complaint was filed about this incident. And Louis took note. He was concerned that Anderson was kind of a cowboy and aggressive. Then the very same week, the math, this is posted. He heard another story about Anderson. The black business owner. He knew told them about a disturbing run and she'd had with him that he'd been rude and aggressive and told her to shut up. Then once all this started to blow up, Louis says some officers started to come to him discreetly and tell him they had concerns about Anderson, which prompted him to tally up everything he knew about Anderson. There's the Julius Johnson shooting. I talked about last time where Anderson killed an unarmed black man that was before Louis arrived in Muskegon and Anderson was officially cleared of any wrongdoing, but Lewis questioned Anderson's judgment.

5 (5m 30s):
And the decisions that he made that led to the shooting, he added on top of that to other shootings Anderson was involved in, in addition to Julius Johnson,

6 (5m 40s):
With the national average, I've been a police officer for 40 years involved in no shootings. The vast majority of police officers go through their career and never shoot anyone. I don't think the public knows that

5 (5m 54s):
Nobody keeps national statistics on the percentage of officers that shoot people. A pew study says only 27% of police officers have even fired their guns. But that includes warning shots and shooting animals. Anything else? One expert told us the number of police who have actually shot and killed someone is almost certainly less than 1%.

6 (6m 16s):
I couldn't even find a statistic or department like this and you're involved in three shootings.

5 (6m 24s):
And he was an outlier

6 (6m 25s):
In that way. Yeah. I mean like either you have the worst luck something's going on here. And then when you looked at his history, there was a progressive, I guess, glaring performance with him when it came to, you know, dealing with African-Americans, especially in other words, he seemed to have a lot of problems with African-Americans through his career.

5 (6m 51s):
Louis said Anderson would have these kinds of problematic interactions with black people, but over and over again, he'd be cleared, found to be within the bounds of department policy.

6 (7m 2s):
His whole career things would happen and he would kind of come out the other side. And I'm not sure why. I mean, you have to go back and look at every incident I've had officers get in car accidents and let's say you have an officer is in five car accidents and none was his fault as a chief, you go, okay, it appears it's not your fault, but why are you in five? Not a fault accidents. When the other 90% of the officers aren't having this, what are you doing that you keep getting in accidents and you're not at fault.

6 (7m 43s):
You know, we've got a bunch of big pile of cars. You erect, but you never fault. Chuck is one of those kinds of things where I looked at his past, there's good things in there. I'm not going to take that away from him. I started seeing a pattern that he just wasn't effective with our African-American citizens. He just wasn't. So like, what are you going to do?

5 (8m 7s):
Louis says he knew pretty quickly what he was going to do. You wanted to fire Anderson partly on principle. Two-plus two is four. He told me, Anderson has a problem with black people. And there was no doubt in my mind, but also on top of that, lots of people were telling Lewis. He had no choice. He had to get rid of this officer, the city, social justice committee, the city's vice mayor. Who's also the president of the local NAACP. Everyone was saying, if Anderson stayed, there'd be backlash, protest hostility, and not just towards Anderson, but towards everyone on the force,

6 (8m 44s):
It's gonna endanger him and my other 79 officers. And matter of fact, I'm not going to be part of this agency. If that's how we're going to be. I said, I cannot in good conscience. Bring him back here and put him back on the streets of this town.

5 (9m 6s):
So at this point in our story, you've got a town where lots of people think a police officer has a problem with black people. The white police chief looks into it and agrees. It seems like a clear cut case. Fire. The officer call out his bad behavior, apologize to the public. And yet that is not what ends up happening, which brings us back to the way it actually happened.

8 (9m 32s):
Breaking news out of Muskegon, where a police officer who had KU Klux Klan memorabilia in his home has been fired.

5 (9m 40s):
When the news hit the chief Lewis did what he said and fired officer Anderson. There was no explanation why he was fired. The closest they got to that came 11 days later when the city released their official report on Anderson, the result of the investigation, chief Lewis ordered this report. It's one of the reasons I got interested in this it's over 400 pages. So it seems like it's going to be kind of a reckoning of the kind of officer Anderson had been during his two decades on the Muskegon police force and include all the incidents. You've heard about settle some big questions about the kind of officer he was, but the report was nothing like that.

5 (10m 21s):
The report almost entirely portrays officer Anderson as well, a pretty great police officer. It's hundreds of pages clearing him of wrongdoing and showcasing things he'd done well in his career. It was so much so that the first time I read it, I didn't even understand how this was used as justification for Anderson being fired so much of what had come up and what people were talking about. Wasn't even addressed. Like there's an analysis of Anderson's traffic stop showing it did not appear. He was targeting nonwhite drivers. There's a big section about his commendations. There's 10 interviews with officers white. And non-white talking about how they think Anderson's fair and a good officer.

5 (11m 2s):
And they wish he could come back to work. Some seem boiler plate, but others seem heartfelt one black officer without prompting talks about how Anderson has gone out of his way to help him at work and been a guest at his house. He's been to your house. The investigator asks he has his black officer. He helped me put a roof on my house and his father and wife spent the whole day at my house. So many of the things the chief found so disturbing that convinced him Anderson had a problem with black people. They just weren't in there like the video of him pushing the old woman onto the ground, or Louis has concerns about the number of people. Anderson shot.

5 (11m 43s):
The only interview where anyone says anything negative about Anderson is the interview with the math. This is, and they only talk about the flags and the KKK application, a local activist Davis summed up the report this way. He was a great officer. He didn't do anything wrong, but have memorabilia. And they fired him to keep us happy. So how did we get to this from a police chief who believes this officer has a problem with black people to this mammoth report that doesn't say that at all, chief Lewis, his investigators handed him a report that comes to very different conclusions than he had. It's the report you'd issue. If you wanted to keep Anderson on the streets, I never got an answer to why the report is just as laudatory stuff.

5 (12m 28s):
I asked to talk to the people who did the investigation. The city said, no. I asked chief Lewis, surprisingly. He told me, he thought the report was critical. Honestly, it seemed like he hadn't read it in a while and maybe he didn't remember what the heck had happened inside Muskegon city, government that could possibly connect those dots. The best answer I got is here in act three, how to fire a police officer. Okay, let's go back to that moment. When chief Louis decided he wanted to fire Anderson, not because of the official investigation, he hadn't even seen that yet. He wanted to fire Anderson because of his own analysis.

5 (13m 10s):
After he decided that he met with the city's lawyers and they talked about how it would be tricky to fire Anderson and be tricky because of the reason Lewis wanted to get rid of him. It's hard to prove a police officer treats black people differently and has a pattern of discriminating. They said, if Lewis tried to fire him for that, he really might fail, like take the video of Anderson shoving. The old woman Anderson could argue it was justified or maybe it was an accident. Take any of these incidents one by one. And he could say that there was some reason cause there's

6 (13m 44s):
Oh, he's a defense. Mr. Anderson had a defense. Mr. Anderson had represented.

5 (13m 49s):
Chief Lewis says he called around to other police chiefs and police union officials

6 (13m 53s):
Before around the state a lot, we went, you'll never sustain that in the, in the union world. I was told by a lot of people that if my decision was to terminate, that it would not be sustained

5 (14m 6s):
That you wouldn't have grounds for termination.

6 (14m 8s):
I would, I would probably lose it later on down, down the road.

9 (14m 13s):
And it happens. I mean, there's it just, since I've been here, I would say there's probably three different times. People have been fired and aborted their jobs back

5 (14m 21s):
Muskegon, city manager, Frank Peterson. He was in these meetings with chief Lewis and Muskegon's lawyers.

9 (14m 27s):
And we just did not want that to happen in this case. Some of the cases we're okay with it. You know, if the, you know, but this one was like under no circumstance, could we afford to have him be awarded his job back?

5 (14m 39s):
It's hard to fire a police officer. That's true. Pretty much everywhere in this country. As you probably know, police unions are powerful. They have lots of protections in their contracts. And the instances police officers do get fired for racism. There've been a bunch of cases over the last couple of years, the Wilmington, North Carolina, Albany, New York, Warren, Michigan, and thing is in all those cases, police were not fired for mistreating people of color on the job. They were fired for things they said, because they write racist comments online, or they get caught on a recording saying explicitly racist things. There's a caught red handed next to it.

5 (15m 19s):
And the way those departments fired the officers was by arguing the racist comments violated the basic code of conduct for their jobs. Like the code of ethics and Wilmington says, officers can't do things that reflect unfavorably on the department or themselves and chief Lewis after puzzling for awhile over what legal argument he could use to fire Anderson. He had kind of an aha moment and it kind of stumbled into a strategy like that. Like the other cities used

6 (15m 46s):
And our positive procedures. One of the things you have to do is you yourself have to have the community trust in you. It's in our policy procedures. The community has to have some kind of trust in you to carry out your duties.

5 (16m 2s):
I looked it up and indeed this wasn't some technicality, very deepened department policy. It was right at the beginning in the chief's preface that Lewis wrote himself. He refers to the public trust. When Louis told me that this was his argument and he was going to try to fire Anderson for losing the public trust. I could not help, but think if this was the bar everywhere for every officer, a lot of officers would be fired tomorrow, less than half of Americans say they have confidence in police. These days, one benefit of this strategy was simplicity. All they had to prove was that Anderson had this stuff in his house and that people said he couldn't be trusted because of it.

5 (16m 43s):
Lewis wouldn't have to argue all of these individual incidents that the lawyers told him. He might lose on another appealing thing about this plan. It'd be fast. Lewis wanted to send a message by acting quickly. And in fact, from the day the math, this is posted, it was only five weeks until Anderson was fired amazingly quick for this kind of thing. But to make sure Anderson wouldn't fight them and try to get his job back. The chief did seem to give a few things away at the bargaining table. Like for starters, he didn't really fire Anderson. In actuality, Anderson signed a separation agreement. He agreed to walk away voluntarily, not say anything bad about the city, not Sue to keep his job.

5 (17m 26s):
It was just going to be over in exchange. The city would let him leave with his pension and retirement healthcare benefits. After two decades on the job, this strategy for getting rid of a police officer is not unusual. A former police chief named Daniel loads wrote an article in the Washington post, where he said in nine years running the department in Aurora, Colorado, he had 16 cops. He wanted to fire. He only fired four of them. He was reversed on three of those. So with the other 12, he says he quoted, bent over backwards to negotiate their departures with creative severance packages. Not because he wanted to. He felt he had no other choice In the negotiations between the city and officer Anderson.

5 (18m 21s):
The complaints about Anderson's history did come up, but it's kind of like a bargaining chip. Louis told me he made it clear to Anderson and the unions that the case for his termination was based on what was in his house and how he lost the public trust. But he said, if Anderson fought them, it could become about a lot more. And I started seeing it could become about Anderson's past and other things that he'd done, you know?

6 (18m 43s):
And so I wish I was prepared to show this pattern. They had other complaints that were like in the hopper that were coming forth, that I was going to inquire in those next in the union, knew it, oh, if you win this one, this is coming next. Then this could become next. And so that's why it was decided that we would just end this relationship and he would move on.

5 (19m 10s):
In other words, if Anderson took this deal, the city wouldn't dig into that stuff. Anderson's walk away without a real reckoning over his past. That's the best explanation I have for why the 421 page report is the way it is and why it doesn't really dig into Anderson's mistreatment of people. I should mention in his preface to the report, the chief promises more. He says, there'll be further investigation into additional complaints against officer Anderson's behavior on the job. Now that this part's done, that didn't happen though. And it's been two years, the department spokesman told me there are no additional investigations into Anderson in the works

1 (19m 60s):
Benco Hoon coming up. The way that the cities deal with officer Anderson affected the Matheson who looked at that 421 page report and had something totally surprising about themselves in there. That's in a minute there's Chicago public radio. When our program continues

0 (20m 19s):
Support for this American life comes from indeed. When you finally got the right answer, the stars align and the numbers add up the fastest way to reach your potential is with the right people in place. If you're hiring, you need indeed with indeed you can attract interview and hire all in one place to get started right now with a $75 sponsored job credit to upgrade your job post at indeed.com/american indeed.com/american offer valid through December 30. First terms and conditions apply need to hire. You need indeed support for this American life comes from hello, fresh, the secret to staying on track with your goals. Hello, fresh they're delicious recipes and doorstep delivery.

0 (21m 2s):
Take the hassle out of mealtime and their calorie smart and carb smart options make eating well easier than ever. With HelloFresh. You can pick from 50 menu and market items each week, and even swap in proteins and sides. Get 16 free meals. Plus three gifts with code American 16 at hello, fresh.com/american 16. That's code American 16 at hellofresh.com/american 16.

1 (21m 31s):
It's this American life I'm IRA glass with our story about policing and Muskegon, Michigan today's episode, a city walks into investigation. So the police chief made a trade off. He believed officer Anderson had a problem with black people. He believed it completely affected the way he did his job, but he thought he couldn't fire him for it. So he forced them out for quote, losing the public's trust with that KKK application. And as part of the deal of the city's official 421 page report did not say anything negative about how Anderson treated black people in his job that trade-off Anderson had to leave, but he kept his pension. The city's official investigation portrayed him as an outstanding officer that trade-off at consequences for the people whose Facebook posts began, all of this, the mattresses, and for others, Ben Calhoun picks up with act for people who got the short end of Anderson's deal.

5 (22m 26s):
Best I can tell the public at large, just kind of accepted what the city did. Anderson was gone. Maybe they grumbled that he got his pension, but fine. Okay. But it wasn't that way for duke stalling at all, just to remind you of his experience with officer Anderson Anderson was called to his mom's birthday party because of a noise complaint and escalated things until he ended up pepper spraying a bunch of old people in arresting duke, and one of his uncles, they filed complaints with the police department and tried to raise the alarm about Anderson, but nothing happened, no one ever reached out to hear their side of the story. Years later, when the Mathis came forward about the stuff in Anderson's house, duke thought, finally, everyone's going to see, but the way the city handled it, it didn't go that way because the city's report didn't talk about the pattern Anderson had with black people.

5 (23m 21s):
What would it have meant to you if the police chief, as part of this process would have said like, essentially, yeah, this guy was a problem.

4 (23m 30s):
Oh, everything. Oh, my my hope was that it was going to look into my case again, hope, right? Innocence, naiveness. I hope that they reach out to me, hope they look into my case. I hope they look into Julia's case. I hope they look into all these cases and something really happens. And then they go to the families and make amends with these families that he terrorized that you were hoping that you were going to get a phone call. Oh yeah. Most definitely. I thought that's what investigation is. You're going to look into every situation that he had a, you know, interaction with. But the investigation they say was going to have, that was just to get us hopeful. Right? Get the people hopeful so they can get rid of the anger. So I, police can be on the streets without nobody want to do anything to our polices.

4 (24m 12s):
We'll say everything we need to say to make them calm down. That's it. That's really awesome about,

5 (24m 23s):
It's a weird thing about this story, all that stuff that chief Lewis said to me about how he was convinced that officer Anderson had a problem with black people and a pattern of incidents mistreating them. He's never said that publicly, not in the report, not in comments to the press, no city official has said anything like that. Not until now this story. So I was the one to break that to people like duke stalling.

4 (24m 50s):
So, I mean, that would have made me feel a whole lot better if you know, he would've said, you know, what are you saying to you behind closed doors and public about this officer to hear that comes from within that you agreed and you felt the same way. You know, he's had a history of, you know, hurting or affecting my certain group of people. And, you know, we fired him and got rid of him because of that reason, you know, to let us know that we on the same page here. I mean, that's how you build that trust with the community.

5 (25m 25s):
When it came to the way that Anderson treated, his family, duke had always felt that race was a part of it. They need to have acted differently if they were white, but it was the slippery part. And it was hard to prove which happens all the time. The person accused of racism can say, I don't have a racist bone in my body, or I'm the least racist person. And then all of a sudden the conversation is this dead end. Everyone's just supposed to throw up their hands and be like, guess you can't prove what's in their heart.

4 (25m 54s):
It's within everything. Yes. I've dealt with it in the real estate, you know, an officers and stuff like that with it. And I know it was a racial thing, but I couldn't take it to court and win because they never specifically, you know, say anything like that. Like you really got to call somebody and you literally got to say these types of things in order, I can treat you like, but never call you. I can treat you like one never call you that you can't say that I'm racist, but you knew it was new. It was new.

5 (26m 24s):
It's like a trap door. And 10 years earlier, duke had watched Anderson slipped through it. And when the city released their report, it was like he had to watch Anderson, slipped through it for a second time, I went back and I told chief Lewis would duke. And other said to me that if the city and Lewis saw racial pattern of bad conduct and mistreatment by officer Anderson, the city should've said it

6 (26m 59s):
Honestly. And I see where they're coming from. I get it. But when it came time for us to do the investigation, but I felt I put everything in there to sustain this case and to get him to, into his employment here, to get

5 (27m 17s):
The outcome that you felt like was important for

6 (27m 19s):
This. And I, and I can prove it today. I can look back and go see we did it right. But there again. So let me see. I should say it's not complete until the chief put the races in there. You know, there again, we were, I guess we're going to, I guess, live today to disagree. I didn't feel that was necessary. What I felt was necessary was in that report and worked for what I would call a correct outcome.

5 (27m 47s):
But I guess the question that I'm asking is just, you know, why not a public statement they're sharing your take of, you know, there there's a pattern of problems here. Why not a public statement saying you guys are right. There was something wrong here.

6 (28m 3s):
Well, I think we did make a public statement of that. We went, you can't be an employee here. And in matter of fact, you shouldn't be a police officer.

5 (28m 12s):
We went around and around. Louis was adamant. They made the right choice to get Anderson out Five. No good deed goes unpunished. The people who are the most effected directly affected by the city's decision, never to publicly comment on how Anderson treated black people were the people who stuck their necks out and set this all in motion. Robin Rayna Mathis, Mathis is, were already being harassed. I laid out the details of that last time threats to their children, people in town, shouting slurs at them, people stocking their house.

5 (28m 57s):
But when the city put out its report, it made all that worse because of something surprising. It said about them. It was something they didn't even know. And it was something that changed the way people in Muskegon saw them towards the end of the report. The Muskegon police department revealed that that day when Robin Raina toured officer Anderson's house, that was not actually the first time they cross paths with them. In fact, over the years, they interacted with him a few times. Robin Rayna found this out the day the city's report came out.

2 (29m 30s):
I believe it was in the car. We're were adding somewhere and somebody sent us the report or something like that. We went on a website or something and read it. And I was like, wow.

5 (29m 40s):
It was one of these that caught everyone's attention. Especially the math. This is, it was from 2008. Robin marina totally remembered this thing, but they'd never put it together that it was officer Anderson. In fact, both they and Anderson told investigators, they didn't know each other for the math. This is, this particular incident had just kind of mushed in with other interactions they'd had with police. They didn't remember a particular officer. It was just some random cop who treated them badly. I want to tell you the whole story because of the outlandish coincidence of this. If you remember the reason Rob felt compelled to go public about the flags and the KKK application was because he imagined someday somewhere, officer Anderson would pull over a couple and things would get ugly.

5 (30m 27s):
It turned out Robin Raina had been that couple a decade earlier. It was the 4th of July in 2008, Robin Rina had grabbed a bite at burger king and they were on their way home. And Rob had to pee really bad. So he was going a little fast, but not that fast. Even according to officer Anderson, who says in his police report that he clocked them going between 31 and 38 in a 25. So like ten-ish over Anderson, pulled them over pretty much right at their house.

2 (30m 57s):
So he flicked the lights and I pull up right at my side door,

3 (31m 3s):
Literally right in front of our house, like re literally parked right in

5 (31m 6s):
Front of our house. Officer Anderson comes up to the car,

2 (31m 9s):
You know, he's like, you know what, your speed I say, sir, I had to go to the bathroom. I just got to go to the bathroom so bad. He was like, this is just going to take a second. So my wife was like, he just got to go to the bathroom. So he's like, shut up now. And blah, blah, blah.

5 (31m 23s):
Rob says he and Raymond were like, shut up. Officer Anderson went back to the car. Rob was in so much discomfort. He was afraid he was going to wet himself. After a few minutes, he got out and he tried to signal to officer Anderson to plead his case.

2 (31m 38s):
I've ran into, you know, had run ins with different officers on occasion. And some of them would be, you know, a little hard ass sometimes, but I was being respectful and I was like, officer, you can look, I'm pulling my shirt up. Like you can search me. Here's my wallet. I'm pulling my pockets inside out. I'm raising my pants, leg up six. You ain't got no weapons. I'm like, you can call the dogs. They search my car for drugs. I just gotta use the bathroom. I'm being totally honest with the guy, you know? And he just get in the car, get your ass in the car. He cussing at us and stuff. So I'm like, man, this guy, man, I don't know what his problem is.

5 (32m 16s):
So Rob gets back in. He's like, okay, God, hold it. He says 10 minutes go by then 20 Robin rain, his kids see the police lights. And so they come out to see what's happening. So now they're standing on the lawn. After bit neighbors come out to,

2 (32m 32s):
We sat there for like a half an hour. It don't take that long to run nobody name, sat there and sat there, sat there, sat there and steady. Every time I go to open the door to get out, get back in the car just a sec. I'll be there in a sec. Stay in the car, stay in the car.

5 (32m 49s):
He was so desperate. At this point, he gets out of the car and he's like,

2 (32m 53s):
Look, man, I got to go to the bathroom. I'm not gonna sit here and grown man and urinate on myself. Cause you don't, you won't, you won't let me go to the bathroom. I'm like just search me, search my car, whatever you gotta do. I just gotta go to the bathroom. I'm not gonna use the bathroom myself.

5 (33m 8s):
What did he say? When you said that? How did he react?

2 (33m 11s):
He was like, get your, I did not say get your motherfucking ass back in the car. Get in the car.

5 (33m 17s):
At this point, Rena got out of the car to talk to their kids. Officer Anderson turned his attention to her when he did, he kind of gave up on Rob and Rob was able to run inside to pee. Then Anderson walked over to Raina.

3 (33m 31s):
He told me to get my ass back in the car. And I was standing at the door. I wasn't all the way out of the car. I was like, the door was open and I was standing there telling my kids that everything was going to be okay or whatever. He was telling me to get my ass back in the car. And I'm telling him, I'm talking to my kids, you know, they're scared or whatever.

5 (33m 49s):
And I don't remember it. Rena said she was kind of pinned between the car and Anderson

3 (33m 54s):
That's when he tried to put me in the headlock and all I did was try to re you know, like, you know, I didn't want him to like, however he did it. He did like this and it busted my nose or whatever. So my nose was bleeding. But when I went back like this to protect myself, that's when he got hit.

5 (34m 11s):
Rena says she lifted up her arms to block Anderson in her arm, hit him. Rob in the middle of this, comes back out of the house to find Raynaud with a bloody face. And officer Anderson wrestling her to the ground. He starts to walk up like, what's that?

2 (34m 27s):
So when I was coming outside the gate, he said, stay there, stay there. So he put his hand on him, like he was going to pull this gun out. So I'm standing. I'm like, Randy, just be cool. Be cool. Be cool. And

5 (34m 37s):
Well, what were they saying? What were they saying? When you came out of the house

2 (34m 41s):
And you resist an arrest, you resist. And the rest she's like, my husband just had to go to bathroom. He say, I told you to stay in the car. I told you stay in the car. So he grabbed her and he smashed her head down on the car. So he rushing around with it. She trying to get away from,

5 (34m 55s):
And you're having to stand there on the other side of the fence with your kids and watch this whole thing.

2 (35m 1s):
I was worried that was going to shoot her in front of me and the kids.

5 (35m 5s):
Once Anderson had rain on the ground, he put handcuffs on both of her wrists saying,

3 (35m 10s):
I told you to get your ass down. Now you're going to fucking jail, stuff like that. So, and my kids were screaming at this point.

5 (35m 21s):
So were you surprised that that happened all of a sudden?

3 (35m 25s):
No, I hate the way the aggression he had. I knew something was gonna happen. So I wasn't surprised that it did happen. I was more mad because it happened in front of my kids and they were terrified because they were younger than

5 (35m 37s):
Just to reiterate the issue here to start was driving about 35 and a 25 Anderson's report from that night describes more or less the same course of events. The key difference is that officer Anderson says Raina didn't hit him inadvertently. He said, she swung around and slapped him. Raina was charged with resisting and obstructing a police officer, a charge that carries potential prison time.

3 (36m 3s):
And my husband found out I was facing five years in prison. He said, no. He said, we're fighting this. Cause they kept trying to make me take a deal. He said, no, we're going to get a lawyer. We're going to fight this. He said, I want the dashboard cam as evidence he said, because they'll see exactly what ha everybody will see what happened.

5 (36m 19s):
The Mathis has say their lawyer requested the dash cam footage from the stop. According to the math Matheson, they were told the video could not be located. And then suddenly Raina was offered a new, much reduced plea deal. She decided she just wanted to be done with all this. And she took it The night of the traffic stop back in 2008, Robin Rainey did not think it was about race,

2 (36m 48s):
Dumb, like a, he's just being a Dick or he's had a hard night. Maybe the previous person may be pulled over or something gave him a hard time. And you know, he's just taking it out on everybody else. You know, he's on a power trip. You know,

3 (37m 4s):
I have a badge I'm I'm I'm in control. That's what I thought. I didn't think anything about him being racist. I just thought, yeah, he was a cop on a power trip. I mean, I've seen Mexican cops do the same thing to Mexicans and black cops do the same thing to blacks. It's just, you know, some of them have their power trips. So I just thought he was on a power trip.

5 (37m 24s):
That was how they saw it when it happened. But now after seeing those things in Anderson's home, a decade later, they both looked at it differently.

2 (37m 33s):
I don't think he would have did that with a, with a white cup on the car. He'd been like, okay, go use the bathroom or I'm just going to let you off. Cause he was just, just disrespectful. In hindsight, looking at it, everything he did was a racist act

3 (37m 52s):
From when he first looked at us, he didn't have good intentions. Demand is racist. And I know that now, but had I known it back then probably been a lot different. So then I was pissed. I kinda kind of wish I would have probably assaulted him before he assaulted me. And that's the truth.

5 (38m 16s):
If the city specifically chief Lewis would have said publicly some version of what he actually thought about officer Anderson, that he had a pattern of being overly aggressive escalating situations, especially with people who weren't white. Then I think when people found out about this traffic stop, they might've seen it in that light. But without that context Anderson's version is the one people believed it's Anderson's account in that 421 page report, the city issued, he stopped robbing Raina, Raina got out of hand. She assaulted him because of that, this revelation that they'd had this run-in with officer Anderson years earlier, it really did change.

5 (39m 1s):
How lots of people saw the math. This is

2 (39m 4s):
That's when more threats came in, then people were saying, oh yeah, you're out for officer Anderson because he put your wife in jail because it is because of that. You know, then they was like, oh, you're not just a good guy because you out at officer Anderson for having the Confederate flag and the Klan application it's because we were holding a grudge against the police.

5 (39m 30s):
Of course, Robin Raina hadn't sought out Anderson's house on some vendetta. The realtor sent them the listing, but this version of the story to cold

2 (39m 39s):
That's, what's still out there that, that report, that city hall pulled out it's me and my wife had a problem with him. And we went after him

5 (39m 50s):
When we were talking, I told Rob what chief Lewis said to me that Anderson had a pattern of behavior and a problem with black people just like with duke stalling, Robin had no clue, no clue. Louis felt that way. No clue Lewis saw the same things in Anderson that he did. And the fact the city left that out. It made Rob mad.

2 (40m 12s):
When he say that in the report, in the beginning, it would've changed everything, everything me and my wife wouldn't be looked at as some liars that we went after him. You sitting up here creating this Faustus, you know, and it's just wrong. Tell the truth. Now the police, do you want to tell the truth, but the matter is done, but truthfully, the information that you just got from chief Lewis, if that would have been put into the report, then they would have said the magic y'all did a great job. You know, thank you

5 (40m 53s):
The way the math, this is. See it. Even if the chief removed Anderson for betraying the public's trust, even if the reason for the firing wasn't the way he treated black people, the city could have removed Anderson without also giving him a clean bill of health. They could have said, we've looked into this. We're troubled. By the way, he treats people. It was not okay. We don't want officers act in the way that he did Act six. Was it worth it? It's hard for Robin Raina to calculate the ways this changed their lives. The risks they took was a single act, a single moment.

5 (41m 35s):
But the impact of it is still happening. Even a couple of years later, the costs for them are still adding up some of what all this is, cost the math. This is or things that have ended up in no report, no investigation official or unofficial. The harassment threats, the conspiracy theory. Now floating around out there. The Robin Raina were out to get officer Anderson. The last time I saw Rob, I asked him how he looks back on all of it, given the results.

2 (42m 3s):
I'm just glad that he ain't riding around the streets and he's not harassed no more minorities. And nobody ain't going to get killed by officer Anderson. And it'd be a justified shooting cause he can make a Woody want to because he killed the person.

5 (42m 19s):
So you, do you feel like it was worth it?

2 (42m 23s):
Man, I feel like I, I, me and my wife save lives by doing what we did,

5 (42m 32s):
Raina didn't disagree. She was glad Anderson lost this job really pretty fast. That doesn't always happen, but the practical costs, she couldn't help. But look at those two.

3 (42m 44s):
And then with all the backlash that was net, you know that all the negative stuff, it just made me second. Guess what we did? You know, like I felt like I did something wrong. Like maybe we shouldn't have did it. Maybe we should have just kept our mouth shut. But at the end of the day, who's to say that he wouldn't still be working and another young black man gets killed or there's another Raina who goes to prison for five years because he says that she assaulted him. And you know, I, I I'm so conflicted because one minute I'm like, you know, we did do the right thing. We did do the right thing. But then when you go through everything that we've been going through, it's kind of hard.

3 (43m 24s):
Like maybe we shouldn't have though

5 (43m 26s):
Robin Rayna did what they did out of concern for other people's safety, but they ended up sacrificing their own. Like they used to feel like the police were out there to protect them. They help them. And now on any given day, they worry that they're not here's Reyna.

3 (43m 43s):
I promise you every day I leave this house. When I drive to work, I pray to God that I don't get pulled over because I'm scared. I'm legal. I have a license, I have insurance and I'm scared. I make Rob drive me to work a lot. And it's hard on him because he has to wake up to come and get me at five in the morning, you know, and then take my daughter to school and do this and do that. And, but I, my anxiety gets so bad. I don't want to drive because I'm scared. I'm going to get pulled over and, and anything can happen.

5 (44m 20s):
It might be somebody who knew him

3 (44m 22s):
Or one of his friends,

5 (44m 24s):
Those worries and fears. They tell me they aren't just, when they leave the house, they've seeped in the last thing I'll play for you is from Reyna. This was from five months after the city had terminated Anderson. When most of the people in Muskegon had stopped thinking about all this,

3 (44m 42s):
I probably get two or three hours sleep here and there once we started getting the threats. And so I, I had a lot of bad dreams, you know, I couldn't sleep. I would have to, I used to put a chair right by that window and just sit out and look out the window in the dark, just so I could see

5 (45m 2s):
Just to keep an eye on what

3 (45m 3s):
Was going on. And then we have a monitor with our security cameras and I would lay it in my bed with me and I would just hold it and watch it for hours. Cause it shows all of our cameras all six. So I'd watch all the little screens and for hours I couldn't sleep and that's what I would do.

5 (45m 21s):
And how long did that

3 (45m 22s):
Last? I still do it sometimes. I don't sit there no more, but I will sit here air or I will lay in my bed and I'll hold the monitor right in my hand and just watch it even now sometimes. Yeah. Or I sit on the stairs right there, the fourth stare. So I can see right out at night when my porch light is on. So I sit there,

5 (45m 45s):
I texted Rob the other day. He told me they still get threats sometimes. And they still watch the monitors regularly. That's the norm. Now he wrote, we're always on guard.

1 (46m 4s):
Okay. One last thing before we go today, over the last six months as Ben Calhoun has been working on this story, he and I have talked a lot. And the thing that I have wondered about myself about this whole thing this whole time was okay. If you had a police officer with a history of like officer, Anderson's, all these interactions with civilians that go badly over 21 years, why did he take this freak event? People spotting a KKK application on a wall where anybody looked at his record, the way the chief did it, did something about him. Couldn't they have flagged him sooner across the country where we see these incidents where police are mistreating people. It just seems like if there were some system to catch problem officers, it can make a difference.

1 (46m 49s):
Does any police department try in a real way and an effective way to do that? Flag them, deal with them. Hello there, Ben. Hi. So I was not a one in this question, you also were kind of obsessed with

5 (47m 1s):
Those. Yeah. I put this question, this exact question to several policing experts. And eventually one of them told me about these things called early warning systems. And basically what these are, are computer programs that track problematic incidents in an officer's career. And they flag an officer if there's too many of them. And one of these experts told me that if Muskegon had one of these systems, then all of this would have been different. Oh yeah. Right. But then I checked and Muskegon does have one of these systems in place. Oh it does. It does. But it, you know, didn't lead to any action against officer Anderson.

5 (47m 42s):
Okay. Then what's the problem? Well, I mean, it turns out that a lot of these systems are just really bad and there's a few reasons for it. One of them is that some of the systems, this includes Muskegon's they rely really heavily on police officers reporting each other, which doesn't happen very often. It relies on citizen complaints, which we just know that people don't complain about police officers very often because they worry that nothing's going to be done, which is true often. Right? Yeah. Totally true. Another reason they're bad is that when these systems get installed, they have to be negotiated with police unions and police unions kind of defang them.

5 (48m 26s):
And the last reason it turns out they might be measuring just the wrong things. Huh? So a few years ago, a group at the university of Chicago got together and they wanted to change the way this works. Basically they wanted to Moneyball the whole situation. They wanted to break down all the things police do on the job, into numbers and statistics. And then they wanted to find the stats that best predict bad behavior. So give me an example of, of what these Moneyball stats would be. Okay. So one example, they say the old systems would measure just the sheer number of times a police officer would use force. So like if they wrestle somebody to the ground or if they tased somebody and what they want, instead they say, it tells you just way more.

5 (49m 12s):
If you measure something, they call proportionality of force. And what that is is, you know, how much force is a police officer using, given the situation that they're in? Are they using force in a situation that wouldn't usually call for it? So we can like think of officer Anderson going into the backyard and ending up pepper, spraying a bunch of unarmed people over a noise complaint, over a noise complaint, or shoving that a woman to the ground that's using a lot of force where forces necessarily need it. Right. Exactly. So I talked to a policing expert named Ron Huberman. He's a former Chicago police officer and he's one of the people trying to get people to use these new Moneyball type stats.

5 (49m 53s):
He told me the university of Chicago group crunch the numbers for a lot of officers. And they were looking at whether they were using force in situations that wouldn't usually call for it.

11 (50m 3s):
You learn two things you want that most police are great at deescalation. And you learn that some police are always trying to use as much force as they lawfully can, or the policy enables them to right there at the top end of that spectrum, those officers are much more likely to have a major adverse event occur, right. Something terrible, the nature of what you can turn on and see on TV here and there. Right.

1 (50m 28s):
Tell me another one. What else did they track?

5 (50m 30s):
So another thing that these folks are looking at is something called discretionary rests. So that's essentially an officer goes into a situation that doesn't necessarily require an arrest and makes one, you know, say pulling over the math, this is for going 35 and a 25, that results in an arrest or

1 (50m 48s):
Greg like guess just a traffic stop as a speeding ticket. Shouldn't necessarily

5 (50m 51s):
Result in an arrest. Yeah, exactly. Same with duke stalling, right? Like it's a noise complaint and he ends up arresting duke and his uncle. Okay.

1 (50m 58s):
So, so all that goes into like an algorithm or

5 (51m 1s):
Whatever. Yeah, exactly. And one of the most interesting things that these people are finding is that patterns of problematic behavior with police officers typically go together. So if an officer has one kind of bad behavior, then they're probably going to have others. So the officer who pushes down an old lady is more likely to be an officer who's involved in say three shootings. And they're also more likely to be the officer who is, you know, at a traffic stop telling a couple to shut off.

11 (51m 33s):
We don't generally find that, oh, an officer is just rude or an officer just uses a little too much force. And you know, if we use the story that you shared, this officer, wasn't just rude, right? That is the general accurate story. We don't really just find, well, this officer is otherwise great, but it's just aggressive and disrespectful. Right? What the data would generally show is that officer's going to be struggling in other parts of their job. They're using more force than one would expect they're using a higher proportionality of force.

5 (52m 7s):
I just want to add, you know, another thing that they're tracking is who police officers are doing problematic things too. So if an officer uses more force with people of color, say like, that's going to show up. So

1 (52m 22s):
Does this money bus system work better? Like what do we know? Like do they actually catch more patrol officers and get them to change or, you know, get rid of them?

5 (52m 30s):
Well, I mean, what Ron Huberman says is they've only been doing this for a few years, so it's still pretty early to tell how it's working, but he says, some departments get better results than others. And the key variable is how they follow through. Like when an officer gets flagged,

1 (52m 46s):
There are a lot of departments actually using the new mighty ball versions of the stats.

5 (52m 51s):
No, not that many Ron Huberman, his company, which is based on all this university of Chicago research, it's called benchmark analytics. And that one is working with about 150 policing agencies, which I know sounds like kind of a lot at first, but yeah, there's like 18,000 policing agencies all over the country.

11 (53m 13s):
Most of America is Muskegon, right? That, that is the average or the normal police department in America, which is there might be something in place, but fundamentally it is not, it does not have both the data and the sophistication to identify problematic patterns.

5 (53m 30s):
You know? So I asked Ron human, like what are the big obstacles for getting these systems up and running? And he said, some of them are super straightforward. You know, it's like money in tech and getting that in place. But the big problem he said is, is politics, police unions. They just typically fight anything that involves scrutinizing and disciplining officers. So, you know, to get these systems in, that's where the resistance is going to

1 (53m 55s):
Be. Well, Ben, thank you very much.

5 (53m 58s):
Thank you.

12 (54m 17s):
I watched the news this morning and now that child is spoiling <em></em> Hi. Do you know

1 (54m 44s):
Well, the program has produced stay by Ben Calhoun and me with help from Dana Chivas. And so we chase original music for today's episode by Matt McKinley, people who put together today's program include the amount of Whitney on a baker. Chris bender of Susan Burton, Sean Cole, Mike <em></em> of Eva Kornfeld, Damian grave. <em></em> Nelson, Katherine Ray Mondo, Wil <em></em> Chesky Christus, or Tyler, Matt Tierney, Julie Whittaker, and Diane Wu, our managing editor, Sarah Abdurrahman, our senior editors, David Kestenbaum. Our executive editor is a manual Barry, especially thanks data. Eric Hood, pastor Dwayne Bennett, mayor Steven Galran, destiny keener, Sergeant Jen Wade, Alex cottonwoods, Dustin Dwier, Paul Butler, Sharon Fairley, Craig Futterman, Tracy mirrors, Timothy mot, and the Muskegon police officers who spoke to us on background for this story, our website, this American life.org, where you can stream our archive of over 750 episodes.

1 (55m 34s):
And what's it going to cost you nothing? It's absolutely free. Also there's videos. There are lists of recommended shows to listen to tons of other stuff there again, this American life.org as American life is delivered to public radio stations by PRX, the public radio exchange. Thanks as always your programs. Co-founder Ms. . We were playing a pickup game basketball or your this week and he tripped me. Everybody saw it, but he would not admit it. I don't remember

10 (56m 2s):
Ever throwing down a

1 (56m 3s):
Grandmother AmeriGas back next week with more stories of this American life Next week on the podcast or this American life. And I'm signed letter surfaced in the city of Birmingham England and had huge consequences. People lost their jobs. National security policy changed, even though lots of people. The letter look fake is unsigned

13 (56m 38s):
Dated and they'd look like a serious document. It just seemed comical

1 (56m 42s):
Student journalist on his first assignment teams up with the host of the podcast S town to solve the mystery of who wrote this letter next week on the podcast or on your local public radio station.