0 (0s):
Fundraising is a real estate investing platform complete with an app, a website, and all the bells and whistles you'd expect from a tech company that makes investing in high-end real estate. Incredibly easy. You tell fundraiser, investing goals and fundraise puts your money into the real estate deals that are right for you. Join the over 170,000 investors using fund rise to diversify their portfolios without compromise. Sign up for free today at fundraise.com/culture. That's F U N D R I S e.com/culture

1 (33s):
From WBZ Chicago. It's this American life Eric Glass. So a while back, Brian Reed, who at the time was the senior producer of our show. And he'd recently finished this great seven episode podcast called S town. He was going around giving speeches every now and then about S town. And he was giving a speech when a journalism student in Birmingham, England approached them and told them a story. Suddenly they'd had been big news there, and there was still a mystery at the heart of it that nobody had ever solved. And Brian decided to team up with the student. And honestly, they have been like dogs with a bone running this down, too many twists and turns and officials trying to avoid them or shut them down.

1 (1m 19s):
The student has say, ed is now a former journalism student and somebody who was in all of our guys. He moved here to the United States to finish the story, which became much too big to fit into one or two episodes of our program. So our colleagues at serial took it over to turn into a podcast series. Sarah canaigre the host of serial became their editor. The series rolled out this week and it's spectacular, completely original. I am very excited to play you the first installment to the show today on our show. So you can hear what it's like. I defy you not to get caught up in the story of the way that we all were. And so with that, I'll hand things over to Hamza for part one of the Trojan horse affair.

2 (2m 4s):
This is my first story as a generalist. I hadn't planned for it, my last story, but it probably will be given what's happened in the years. I've been working on this. It's about a letter that's surfaced in my city and had huge consequences for Britain. This letter launched for government investigations, change our national policy and ended careers. It's hurt some of the country's most vulnerable children, a letter, the many people who've seen it agree is ridiculous. It's unsigned undated, and it looked like a serious document. It just seemed comical.

3 (2m 41s):
What the hell is this? I remember looking at some time thinking why F is this

4 (2m 45s):
Infamous less? Or was it written on parchment in black?

5 (2m 48s):
So you presenting me with a document that turned their lives upside down.

2 (2m 54s):
I first landed the letter in 2014. I wasn't agendas. Then I was a I'd quit medicine, Lebanon, Birmingham, England making my breakfast at 1:00 PM. Listen to the news. When I heard about the discovery of a secret communication between Muslim extremists, they were discussing a plot to infiltrate our city schools and run them on strict Islamic principles, potentially with the aim of radicalizing students, someone had forwarded the letter anonymously to the local government, the Bowman city council, but it was missing the first and last page. So it was unknown exactly who wrote it or who they were sending it to. According to the intercepted pages, the plot had a codename operation Trojan horse.

2 (3m 39s):
I have to admit when this story about Muslims in Birmingham first broke as a Muslim in Birmingham. I was alarmed. It sounded possible. Kids across Britain, across Europe are flying off to Syria to join this group called ISIS and Birmingham has been home to quite a few terrorists. My neighbor was a terrorist, the guy who killed five people and then tried to run into parliament with a knife. He did his planning and a flat off the Persian restaurant across the street from me. So I wasn't surprised watching as over the next several months, operation Trojan horse snowballed into a huge national story.

6 (4m 12s):
The schools in Birmingham have been infiltrated by hard-line Muslim,

2 (4m 16s):
Muslim headlines, like Islamist plot jihadist plot, alleging a conspiracy by orphans and the government responded with full force schools demands. The prime minister got involved convening his cabinet to discuss the threat was limited agenda. The national government sent in a bunch of investigators, including Scotland. Yard's former head of counter terrorism to look into two dozen schools, majority Muslim areas of Birmingham city council. Like I say, it was all very frightening until a few months later, when the various investigators finally start reporting their findings that found no plot called operation Trojan horse that's in no signs that anyone had been radicalized, no evidence of violence or planned violence, they didn't bring any terror charges against anyone working with the scores they'd looked into.

2 (5m 4s):
But despite all of that, despite finding no plot investigators still concluded that Muslims had influenced the schools in a dangerous way. Government officials snapped into action.

7 (5m 16s):
It should not have happened in our schools were allowed to happen. Our children were exposed to things they should not have been exposed to. The

8 (5m 23s):
Has been huge prime minister. David Cameron, as we said, is calling a special meeting.

2 (5m 28s):
Officials, removed educators, revamped schools, and renamed them. They mandated all schools in the country start teaching what they termed British values to make kids less susceptible to extremist ideas. They beefed up Britain's counter extremism laws by making public sector workers, like teachers and doctors. Part of the state's surveillance operators to now inform on their coworkers and students and patients today. The prevailing narrative of the Trojan horse affair is that a bunch of Muslims were to no good. There is another version of the story though, that version of the Trojan horse effect is that nothing happened that these beta brown educators were set up and the nation fell for it.

2 (6m 11s):
And it's always seemed to me that there's a simple way to figure out what really happened. The letter, even with all the government inquiries, no authority, none of the investigators ever figured out who wrote it remarkably. None of them even tried. And that to me seemed like a pretty glaring oversight. The reason that country was looking at these schools with suspicion, the reason they were investigating them at all was because the dodgy letters showed up, portraying the people who work there as nefarious plotters claiming they would sneak in Islamic schools like a Trojan horse. The letter is what put the idea in authorities heads. So I didn't see how you could know what operation Trojan horse was or wasn't unless you got to the bottom of the Trojan horse data who wrote it and why a few years later, I decided to go to school for investigative journalism.

2 (7m 7s):
But my professor wasn't completely sold on the story. I wanted to report from a student project, operation Trojan horse. This was investigative journalism. He wanted me to add something new, not rake over some years old story. As a doctor though, I'm familiar with the concept of a second opinion. So the night before my masters was set to stop, I went looking for one

9 (7m 32s):
Doctor, came to see me for a second opinion, one night and fall of 2017. I'm in a theater in Birmingham. After my podcast S town came out, I went around doing some Q and A's afterwards. People sometimes come backstage to chat. And so this guy comes in, introduces himself as hums aside. He said he was changing careers to become a reporter. He was beginning a master's program in investigative journalism the next day, actually. And he wanted some advice. He was speaking fast. Like I might walk away at any moment

2 (8m 3s):
To be fair. I was told that I had five minutes of Brian Reed after which I be squirted out the building.

9 (8m 8s):
I did not know that anyway, hums are ran through the Trojan horse story for me, elevator pitch style. I'd never heard of it, but a guy who was with backstage, a producer, I know from the BBC he had, and he jumped in as Hamza was talking. Yeah, yeah. Trojan horse. He said that was a big thing. A while ago. Some bad stuff went down. Muslim educators had been up to no good, but it was cleared up old story. There was something Hamza said, though, which afterwards I couldn't get out of my head. He kept talking about a letter which had set off this whole cascade of consequences whose origins were still a mystery. So when I got home to New York, I read the letter, it looked like a caricature of a missive between two terrorists filled with Islamophobic tropes about conniving and scheming, Muslims.

9 (8m 55s):
It's missing parts of it are too dark to read. Like it got jammed in the Xerox machine. It instructs the recipient to destroy it. After reading, it struck me as a funky document for a government to take seriously, especially because from what I read, the government hadn't even looked into who wrote the letter or why there was a strange lack of curiosity about this instigating document. I thought to myself, it seems like somebody should try to figure out who wrote that thing. And then I thought, well, wait, this journalism students doing that, maybe I had to give him a hand. And here we are, years later at the end of a dizzying farcical and enraging investigation, in which one, mystery led to another led to another tracing.

9 (9m 36s):
This letter's path of destruction across multiple continents

2 (9m 39s):
And to find some many unhappy officials and some aggressive attempts to shut our report in down

9 (9m 44s):
From serial productions and the New York times, I'm Brian Reed.

2 (9m 48s):
I'm to say

9 (9m 48s):
It presenting to you the most elaborate student project debt. This is the Trojan horse affair.

2 (10m 14s):
I got the call from Brian. When I was in class, my phone started ringing from a New York number. I asked my professor, if I could take it. He said, no. I asked if I could go use the toilet. He said, yes, I answered. And Brian told me he wanted in, on my investigation, but that I would need to produce a, I said, yeah, sure. Or casual. I had no idea what a producer did. Soon. He started getting in touch with missions for me to complete first one, secured a recorder for me in Birmingham. I said, there's something I had to do.

9 (10m 49s):
It was supposed to be a basic bread and butter assignment. Go record a meeting. Hamza had seen an event advertised called Trojan horse. The facts were some of the educators who've been accused of carrying out the plot would be speaking publicly. They insisted the Trojan horse affair was just an Islamophobia. Stitch up the event hashtag was Trojan hoax. And they were trying to clear their names. They'd never gotten their lives back on track. After the story died down, they've lost their jobs and been made into pariahs by the national media. But afterwards Hamza calls me and says, when he showed up at the spot, the community center at 5:00 PM, the receptionist told him, Did they give you any weight?

9 (11m 29s):
Did they give you any other information? Like what did like

2 (11m 32s):
It's been canceled? And that was it. I said, no, this can't be a good omen. I thought to mess up your first journalism assignment. But then more people started showing up confused like me until a man in one of those safety vests swings around the corner, tells us to follow him and takes us up the street to a wedding hall where everyone was gathering. Instead it's a lot of people, maybe over a hundred. And as I explained to Brian, what I'm setting up the microphone,

11 (12m 12s):
The whispers in terms of what happened. And it turned out that the original venue had received phone calls from the national newspaper. Specifically, this guy, Nick

2 (12m 23s):
Timothy, He's a

11 (12m 26s):
Columnist, I think for the Telegraph

2 (12m 29s):
And not just any old columnist, Nick Timothy used to be the chief of staff that a prime minister who was essentially to resume's right-hand man. I spoke to the guy who run the community center, who told me Nick Timothy had actually emailed, not called. He wouldn't let me see the email. But according to others at the meeting, the implication was, if you hold this event, I will associate you with extremists in the newspaper. And that worked the community to send, to pull the plug. And Nick Timothy published a triumphant column, which I'd missed because I was on YouTube all day, watching instructional videos on how to use my recorder in which you confirm his paper had gotten the event canceled and wrote that the proposed meeting was quote, a shocking attempt to deny the Trojan horse scandal and quote the people behind the Trojan horse.

2 (13m 16s):
I trying to do all over again and right under our noses.

12 (13m 22s):
Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to a Trojan horse or hoax the discussion and debate.

2 (13m 30s):
So, Hey, there were the teachers and school volunteers allegedly behind operation Georgia horse, along with the defenders, academics and activists, and an educational barrister like union data packed in this wedding hall. And instead

13 (13m 43s):
I am really, really concerned that simply holding a public open meeting like this becomes controversial, just the fucked we are holding this meeting seems to be an act of resistance right now,

2 (14m 1s):
The people at this meeting called for an inquiry to correct the record on the Trojan horse affair. They believe the government had set them up. So the fact that a former chief of staff that a prime minister, Nick Timothy went out of his way to attack a grassroots event, a community dissenter years after the Trojan horse affair, right? It just reinforced their suspicion and mine quite honestly, that there was something dodgy. The authorities were still keen to hype.

14 (14m 25s):
And then there was, it was like a witch hunt heads were rolling this way. And that way

9 (14m 30s):
Hamza sent me the recording of the meeting. I listened to it and I was interested to hear that one of the people who got on stage and spoke was the man named repeatedly in the Trojan horse letter, as the mastermind of operation Trojan horse, the plots alleged ringleader, a long-time school volunteer named to hear alum.

12 (14m 49s):
I've never been a danger to anyone I've never

15 (14m 51s):
Hurt. I've never had any police case against me or anything of the kind I wasn't running a plot. You know, we are very proud of what we did lose. I do not regret nor apologize for anything that I've done. There was nothing Tran Duvetyne hidden or sinister about what we were doing were very open and veterans.

9 (15m 9s):
So when I landed in Birmingham to begin reporting, that's who we decided to go to first to hear alum, we figured we're looking to find the source of this mysterious letter minus we'll start with the guy out it as an extremist plotter. Is this about to be the first radio interview you've ever done? Yeah.

2 (15m 28s):
I need to be schooled beforehand, man. What

9 (15m 30s):
Do you mean? Like how so?

2 (15m 32s):
Well, I mean, if this was me flying solo, I'd be like, well, whatever how to do it, my style, you know, but this is, this is, you know,

9 (15m 39s):
What is your style? Do you

2 (15m 40s):
Have a style? I feel like I'm alone. How many of these have you done? And what I have an idea in my head of what my style could be. I think you're a lot more sensitive than I am put it that way. Do you know what I mean? Like you're on the more sensitive one. So don't you think so,

9 (15m 55s):
I don't know. I don't know you that well,

2 (15m 58s):
I wonder what would be wearing,

9 (16m 8s):
Hello? Ill fitting button down shirt, khakis. Thank

15 (16m 12s):
You. Going to be in this

9 (16m 14s):
Room. We kick off our shoes. He says to a room at the front of his place.

15 (16m 18s):
Do you have to sit? I was slightly uncomfortable in chest

9 (16m 21s):
Hums and I squeezed behind to school desks meant for children. Their protractors lying around a whiteboard with sketches of geometric shapes, a creative writing workbook titled descriptive Saurus to here's converted this room from his garage into a tiny makeshift classroom where it appears he tutor students quietly because one result of the Trojan horse letter is that the government has banned him from ever volunteering or working officially in schools. Again, somebody is coming to pick tears in front of us, in his office chair, confident area date, framed by his bookshelf, filled with texts about Islam and British history. I pulled a copy of the letter out of my backpack.

15 (16m 58s):
You know, it's a completely anonymous letter undated claiming that there is a plot to take over and Islamized. The schools in Birmingham led by , which is myself. But I speak from a vantage point where I actually know the truth. I know the reality

9 (17m 19s):
To hear denies being an extremist. He denies engineering a plot. He says the reality is that rather than corrupting schools as a radical conspirator, he a first generation immigrant from a poor Pakistani family was responsible for one of the most miraculous school turnarounds in British education, until he says the letter arrived and destroyed him.

2 (17m 44s):
The story of this turn around, it's not a secret it's one. The here shared with Jonas. Other has done a much good in terms of clearing his name, but this backstory does explain why the Trojan horse ladder was so persuasive because the hair told us some of what was in that letter was true. The hair begins the story one night in 1993, when he's watching TV and a show caught his attention, I just happened

15 (18m 12s):
To be just lying on the sofa. Really? And the program

2 (18m 15s):
Came on, it was a documentary part of the BBC series, Panorama

15 (18m 19s):
Nine times out of 10, I would switch to something else, but I was just sitting there and I started watching

17 (18m 26s):
Britain's new underclass is Asian and its Muslim. Oh, once tightly-knit community is now in crisis with drug abuse, crime and family breakdown on the increase.

15 (18m 36s):
And the title of this documentary was underclass in purdah

17 (18m 40s):
And tonight's Panorama. We investigate an underclass in Pardot,

15 (18m 46s):
Meaning, you know, cover meaning avail. If you like underclass in the Vale. Yeah.

17 (18m 53s):
And tonight's program. We lift the veil on this new underclass.

2 (18m 59s):
The documentary opens with shots of brown men, skulking around dark cobblestone streets and a Muslim neighborhood. And what the correspondent caused the Muslim ghetto

17 (19m 8s):
At night. It doubles as the local red light district. It's a CD load of vice and illicit drug. Deeming lurking in the shadows is a new Manningham phenomenon. The Pakistani pimp

2 (19m 24s):
He's like a regular pimp, but in a quarter, part of the documentary takes place in the here's neighborhood in Birmingham called alum rock on the east side of the city. It's one of the poorest areas in England and it's majority of Pakistani and Muslim. If you're not from Birmingham and you're not brown, you may have heard the alum rock is a great place to find a terrorist. If you're not from Birmingham and you are brown, you'll have heard Amarok is a great place to find a wedding dress admitted. The, this BBC documentary is racist in a nineties TV kind of way, but it had a big impact on the hair because it, the awkward brown gazing, some truly sobering facts emerge. The presenter reports, the Pakistani Muslims are incarcerated at disproportionately high rates.

2 (20m 8s):
She says if some of the highest rates of joblessness, the suffering from devastating health issues, terrible housing, domestic violence with one underlying cause of it all a lack of education. This is the number I found most shocking. About 20% of white students were leaving school without any qualifications, meaning they failed to pass the exams. That would essentially be the equivalent of a high school diploma in the U S and that rate 20% was roughly the same for most people of color as well

17 (20m 37s):
For Pakistanis and Bangladeshis and astonishing 50% who had no qualifications whatsoever.

2 (20m 45s):
50%, half of us were basically failing school that hit the hair hard.

15 (20m 51s):
That the extent of education failure was so bad that we were at risk of creating an underclass of Muslims who were basically uneducated prone to crime and unemployment. So I kind of sat there and I, it made me feel guilty, actually guilt because I was one of the few people who made it from my family, one of the first ones to make it into to university and to have a good job and so on. But there was also a sense of humiliation really, because I was from this community.

2 (21m 27s):
The Harris family brought him to England in the seventies when lots of people from Kashmir would move in here, largely because the British design is huge dam, the flooded swats of land and displaced, tens of thousands of people. And one solution the Brits got behind was to invite, displace Pakistanis over to England so they could improve the British economy by working in British factories and mills, which is what the hairs that did there arrived in England as a nine-year-old, who didn't speak any English. And wouldn't become fluent for several years.

15 (21m 55s):
I knew one word of English only, which was F O R D. I mean, I don't know X, Y Zed by no, FLRB that's it

2 (22m 6s):
Can really, I couldn't speak any English. When I first came here, I couldn't even speak for, I was just like mute football. That's what I knew football

15 (22m 14s):
That's right. So that's how you arrived here. And the first school, when I came here, we, we arrived in Brisbane,

17 (22m 20s):
Growing up angry and alienated from white society.

2 (22m 24s):
Now the hair watched as a documentary cap to the next generation box, 90 kids who were born in Britain, being educated in state schools, still struggling to read, not able to recall basic English words. The camera cuts to a park in Birmingham, looked at the hair like ward and park, which is right across from where he went to school in an Amarok.

15 (22m 45s):
I recognize the park maybe because he used to go and play there. And then I saw some children and I said, oh, that's our neighbors, children. I recognize the kids here, even though he was from a distance, but I recognize who the kids are.

17 (22m 56s):
We filmed an encounter with two Asian lads in a park, in a Muslim quarter of Birmingham,

2 (23m 2s):
These Asian lads, we use Asian to mean south Asian, by the way, they're skipping school. And the here knew which school that was skipping. It's the one he'd gone to as a kid right next to our park park view school and majority Muslim school with miserable academic results. It's a secondary school ages, 11 to 16. It was a school where the hero had done well enough to make it to college. And then university before getting a good job in telecommunications, the documentary made him realize how rare his success was and how little he'd done with it.

9 (23m 35s):
So to hear, decided to do something, he started a tutoring program for kids in the neighborhood, but what he was really interested in was volunteering at his old school Parkview. And what's known as their governing body in England, a governing body overseas, how a school is run like a corporate board does a company it's sorta like a school board in the U S except it's specific to one school. They can have a lot of influence. So anyway, to hear says, one afternoon, a couple of Parkview parents, he didn't know, knocked on his door. We hear you're interested in becoming a governor. They said it was like, they'd read his mind though, actually, to hear, I've been talking about wanting to be a governor at a recent wedding. And these parents got wind of it. Resentment and frustration had been festering for years among parents in alum rock.

9 (24m 19s):
Who've been trying and trying to get the authorities to do something about the dismal schools. These parents at the heres door had joined the park, the governing body in an attempt to make a change, but they didn't speak fluent English. And hadn't gone to university to here was a professional with a degree who still lived in the neighborhood. We'd love to propose you. They told him. And with that to here found himself at the next governing body meeting of Parkview school being voted in not only as a member, but as the chair.

15 (24m 49s):
So that's when I became a governor on the 7th of January, 1997. You remember

9 (24m 53s):
The date

15 (24m 54s):
While I was, I was to remain there for 18 years

9 (24m 58s):
When to here started Parkview was one of the worst secondary schools in the country. Only 4% of students were passing 4%. The national school inspection agency had recently placed the school into special measures, the lowest possible ranking and emergency status, basically meaning Parkview was in danger of being shut down. There were brawls breaking out in the school yard on a tour of the building to hear saw vandalized bathrooms with stalls, missing locks and toilets, missing seats, but were to hear really trained. His focus was on the complacent teachers and administrators.

15 (25m 32s):
We initially just started by saying that obviously children should be achieving higher, that the achievement was not acceptable. And the fact that the school was to blame for the failure,

9 (25m 43s):
This statement so obvious to, to hear that the kids in alum rock, whereas capables kids anywhere was met with massive resistance.

15 (25m 51s):
It was very difficult getting the school to accept that they were the problem. People didn't want to accept that because they were, they've been blaming the community for maybe two decades. They had such a low expectation of children.

9 (26m 6s):
One thing to hear noticed early on was that the staff of this school with nearly 90% Pakistani students had only one full-time Pakistani Muslim teacher. So to hear begin searching for more Muslim staff and governors, he gave presentations held workshops. He became a fixture at events around east Birmingham, standing behind his little table or booth evangelizing for people to get involved in their local schools.

18 (26m 29s):
I loved it. I loved it with the children because I felt as I could make a difference.

9 (26m 37s):
This is Moz. Who's saying the first Muslim teacher to hear hired, you taught math.

18 (26m 42s):
I could use my language, my background, when the standing of where they come from to make a difference. I knew their families

9 (26m 49s):
MA's can point to a specific moment. By the way, when he decided to go into teaching,

18 (26m 53s):
There's a Panorama program. It's called an underclass in part of the

9 (26m 59s):
Powerful segment.

2 (27m 3s):
Mostly sane says from the very beginning, he encountered Cirrus prejudices among the most white staff.

18 (27m 10s):
I had a group of children come to me and they said, look, there's this one teacher in school. He always calls us back. He's he's, he's calling us back. He's he's doing it in a jokey way, but we find it offensive. They're not able to tell anyone else, but they're telling me that look east is east sweating at us.

2 (27m 25s):
That's a slam in any context, but especially shocking for a teacher to say to Pakistani students must all them. I think the best thing to do have your parents write the score. He talked them through the procedure for doing that in case their parents don't know. He says eventually the school looked into the teacher's behavior.

18 (27m 41s):
Yeah. And while you're investigating, he resigned. And he gave me his final leaving speech in, in, in, in the staff room and goes who it should be. Our culture dominant in this school, not the kids. And he finish off with the words. The west is the best. And all teachers clapped, all teachers clapped.

9 (28m 3s):
The racism was pervasive. Roz one, Feras a former governor and math teacher says at one of his first governing body meetings, he was shown a list of places. The students had been given work placements through a program at the school. And it was all restaurants, supermarkets, clothing stores.

19 (28m 19s):
There was no surgery, doctor surgery or a law firm or anything like that. And I said, ha ha. How is it that like, did the children decide

9 (28m 28s):
These? And rose says, the vice chair told him,

19 (28m 31s):
Well, their parents want them to go and become doctors and engineers and et cetera. But reality is these kids will become taxi drivers, shopkeepers. So we've got to prepare them now. And for a good while I was struggling to process what he was saying. This is me, a brown person and a Muslim. And he's saying to me that they deserve to have these kinds of jobs.

9 (28m 58s):
This is this community's role in society. That's right.

20 (29m 1s):
We just filed the kids. We just filed the kids and didn't even feel bad about it. Didn't even we didn't, we didn't leave.

9 (29m 10s):
You'll see. John broccoli was one of the non Muslim teachers at Parkview. He was a math teacher. Who'd been there since the eighties. He was Frank with us about the bigotry that he and his colleagues held towards the students and their families.

20 (29m 24s):
We, we, we, we thought that we were a superior culture. Irons. We look down, we look down on these people who didn't know about education.

9 (29m 37s):
You're talking about yourself here by myself,

20 (29m 40s):
But I'm also talking about, you know, many of the people that

9 (29m 43s):
The teachers' attitudes are documented, by the way, a former head teacher of Parkview a head teacher is what we Americans call a principal, did a master's thesis while he was at the school, for which he collected opinions from the staff, including from John as to why Muslim children were drastically underperforming compared to their peers in the thesis. Teachers say the kid's parents are ignorant. Wrongly claimed the students don't speak English. The teachers try for a while. One teacher said, but ended up feeling like who gives a damn, that's a quote. It makes John cringe to think back on it.

20 (30m 18s):
Only when you move away from a situation like that, that you can re re you can realize how awful it is. I don't normally think about, about this sort of thing, because it's too embarrassing.

15 (30m 34s):
Once we created the shift in the belief of the teachers, then the job became much easier.

2 (30m 42s):
The hair says by the early two thousands, Parkview is changing. The school began taking basic, but transformative steps, setting individualized achievement targets for each student, the follow them from yet. Yeah. And preparing students for qualifying exams, which amazingly hadn't happened before school started awarding trophy spoke at marks by parents of ceremonies when their kids did well here, when the governors hired a new head teacher, a non Muslim woman from a girl's school who embraced Parkview's new aspirations test scores start to rise. Students beheading to college. His reputation was turning around, but there are other changes. The hair institutes or Parkview, which later officials would view a suspect.

2 (31m 24s):
James, then investigators would point to as a trademarks of operation Trojan horse, That's coming up.

1 (31m 34s):
Indeed. It is when Hamza and Brian return. That's in a minute from Chicago public radio. When our program continues, it's this American life from IRA glass today on our program, we are playing part one of the newest podcast from our sister company serial productions. The show is called the Trojan horse affair. And we pick up with Brian and Hamza, where they left off.

9 (31m 58s):
You don't get labeled the leader of an extremist conspiracy simply by raising test scores at your neighborhood's secondary school. The main accusation against to hear alum, the overarching assertion of the Trojan horse letter, which the government supported, and which is defined to hear his reputation since then, is that he was Islam rising schools. This is not a word I'm particularly fond of is the mise because Islam lies in relation to what some assumed non-Islamic baseline has this story been Islamized by Holmes's involvement? Yes. It's a word that isn't inherently negative, but it gets used that way. Anyway, that's what the letter said to hear was doing is the mizing schools. And funnily enough, it's also what to hear says he was doing.

15 (32m 38s):
We were evaluating cultural and the faith background of the children. And we were allowing that to be expressed if you like, we catered for children so they could perform their daytime prayers. If they wanted to, we've made a preface acidity available for them in a room

9 (32m 57s):
Religious combinations, like this are legal in British schools, by the way, whether they're explicitly designated as a religious school or not, which Parkview wasn't. It was the equivalent of a regular public school in the,

15 (33m 9s):
And since 98% of the children happened to be of the Islamic faith background. We obviously are catering for the constituency that the school serves in line with the regulatory requirements,

9 (33m 20s):
To hear a scribe, to an educational philosophy that the way he and other Parkview staff talk about it reminds me of Afro-centric or black excellence schools in the U S that students will do better academically when their schools incorporate and celebrate who they are. And there's research that backs us up. So under two, heres leadership, Parkview allowed students to pray if they wanted, they installed facilities for woo-hoo the ablutions you do before prayers, they celebrated Ramadan and altered the schedule during that month to facilitate fasting, they serve to allow food. Sure.

15 (33m 52s):
And I felt that, you know, this was our school. I mean, we were proud to say that this is our school. We wanted our children to say that this was their school and that they were proud of it

2 (34m 2s):
In the wake of the Trojan horse later government officials would declare that the way the hero and his colleagues were running Parkview school had undermined quote unquote British values that they were limiting the children's ability to thrive in modern Britain, which is an interesting charge to bring against the hair. Because I have to say, I haven't personally met an English Pakistani, more confident that he's British than the here deciding whether or not is British is a fraud and personal thing for us speaking for myself, even though I came to England when I was eight and became a British citizen with a British passport, even though I have a British education, went to British university, worked for Britain's national health service. I didn't call myself British. I was never precious about nationality, so I didn't really care what I was called, but sure.

2 (34m 44s):
I'd also picked up on subliminal messaging that in order to be proper British, you had to be white the hair on the other hand, not only calls himself British, but this'll proudly. I got to talk into the hair by this one day. He and Brian and I were getting tea at my favorite Chinese shop on alum rock road.

15 (35m 3s):
This is the

2 (35m 4s):
Hangout. And as we sat outside and one of the main thoroughfares of Islamic Britain around the corner, from where the hair grew up with double Decker buses, passing by sweet shops and fabric stores, and a lot of chippies, I told him my reason for why it finding only recently started calling myself British. So for a long time, I never called with that. I was about 13. I've been reading a book about the British empire and Atlanta rich India, which at the time included Pakistan was according to some economists before the bridge to control. I believe the statistic is roughly controlled about 24% or something like that, of the world's economy at the time

15 (35m 39s):
3% of the world's economy is the richest nation in the world, right?

2 (35m 43s):
24% of the world's economy is roughly what the U S controls today. I know this is somewhat of an apples and oranges comparison because the world wasn't organized into a globalized economy back then, but it does show how rich India was in relation to other countries. At the time when the British left the Indian sub-continent, after some 200 years of economic exploitation, India and Pakistan were among the poorest nations in the world. I didn't learn this stuff in school because Britain's colonization of a quarter of the planet is not compulsory part of the national curriculum, which is why I only discovered it as an adult. So much of the wealth that's when Britain was actually extracted from the place I come from from that point, or is that I've started calling myself British.

2 (36m 26s):
I was just like, I'm British. I own this country. This is my money with which you're raising

15 (36m 30s):
Everything around me. Yeah. So, I mean, that's very similar to the position I am arrived at,

2 (36m 35s):
Except for me, proclaiming I'm British, it's somewhat of a finger in the eye, the hair it's sincere. It also came to him later in life. He says he was at an event held by a British Muslim organization. And they began saying very clearly, you're never going back to Pakistan. Your children are never going to move back.

15 (36m 52s):
It's not gonna, it's not going to happen. That's what you had been

2 (36m 54s):
Thinking of to that point.

15 (36m 55s):
Yeah. Because our parents spoke like that to us, our homes and Pakistan, we have Pakistani, our parents spoke to us like that. My father never told me we are British because that's not what he felt. He believed in Pakistan most of his life. Why would he say that? So

2 (37m 8s):
The people at this event, we're saying you live here now

15 (37m 12s):
Part of this country and that it was important as Muslims, we should have been benefit to this country. So ever since then, I've been kind of dissing the idea that we are other, that we are outsiders, that we don't belong here. Islam is part of Richmond. It's not alien. I don't accept that. Can you see? So this is why, you know,

2 (37m 35s):
So if the here not only was incorporating Islam into school and academic strategy, there was also a British value.

21 (37m 43s):
It was really nice to me. I'm doing something at home. I know my school is,

22 (37m 47s):
I like to have a different life at school. Like if I'm, if I'm pregnant at home, I want to say

9 (37m 52s):
These are two students who graduated from Parkview in 2014. We're not using their names because such as the stink of the Trojan horse scandal, they don't want potential employers to know where they went to school. They actually keep it off the resumes when hums and I met them four years after they graduated, they were both studying law at university. Some of the first in their families to go on to higher education. They've been best friends in school. The kind of friends who don't need words to communicate.

21 (38m 20s):
Yeah. I don't know if I should this. Oh, that telepathic,

9 (38m 25s):
The students told us about these assemblies. They would have in the mornings, which included religious teachings and sometimes prayer. So there was this one, this is something that as an American made me do a double-take. When I heard about it, the idea of teachers and a public school, leading prayers during an assembly is not normal to us. But in Britain, there's no separation between church and state. The queen has had a both. So not only is prayer allowed in schools, some form of worship is legally mandated in all schools that are publicly funded schools, don't always adhere to this, but students are supposed to take part in. What's called a daily act of collective worship. By default, it's supposed to be broadly Christian and character, but schools can apply to change it to other faiths. If that better suits their students, which is what Parkview did.

9 (39m 8s):
It got approval for its worship to be Islamic. The students told us at Parkview's assemblies, they would sit in the main hall and a teacher would tell parables or lessons usually from Islam, but other faiths too. Do you guys remember actually learning things in these assemblies? Or did they make you think, or were they just kind of boring teachers, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. Like,

22 (39m 27s):
I really know. I really enjoy it some days because I didn't learn this from anywhere else.

9 (39m 33s):
They still remember this one assembly all these years later about charity

22 (39m 36s):
Talking about charity. And they'll say, when you're giving charity, you put your hand in your pocket and take out, don't look at how much you give it and just put it in. Don't count what you're giving and what you have left. Because when you give you receive tenfold. Yeah.

21 (39m 50s):
Yeah. Chelsea does not make you poor Paul, quite literally. Like sometimes when I like, see somebody who's like asking for money and things like that, I'll put my hand in. I'll take you out. I do that all the time. And I remember that one. He literally said it like that.

22 (40m 8s):
So that your left hand doesn't even know what your right

21 (40m 10s):
Hand gave. Yeah.

2 (40m 14s):
What the hair became. Chair of park fees, covenant body in 1997, 4% of students were passing by 2010. That number was 71%. A 17 fold increase.

15 (40m 26s):
We have not changed the children. We had not changed the parents, but slowly but surely we took the results of that. They were consistently in the seventies, which means the school actually is kind of guaranteeing an outcome.

2 (40m 40s):
Parkview is now actively preparing students for the eventuality that their academic success would lead them out of east Birmingham.

21 (40m 46s):
I think that a lot of teachers said to me, you live in a Bubba.

2 (40m 51s):
Again, the former poverty students,

21 (40m 53s):
I, I was like, what do you mean? They were like, you live in an Asian community. You go to the nation's schools. You're very safe. You don't know what it's like to breathe like branch out. I remember we learned about the population and how it's divided in UK. And I think it was something like 2% of the population in the UK is Asian. And I was like, whoa, only 2%. I was like 2%, 2%. Like everybody I know is Asian. Every

22 (41m 24s):
Person that I've come across is proud.

21 (41m 27s):
It was so odd.

2 (41m 29s):
The UK is actually 2% buck, sunny, 7% Asian, but point being those, the vast majority of the population that these students and the classmates, we're not bumping into day to day and I'm rock the school, organized visits to Cambridge university. They took them on camping trips, the visited the houses of parliament in London. Some students went on a week-long trip on a sailboat with kids from all over, including a bunch of white kids.

22 (41m 51s):
We weren't used to mingling with people who would not Pakistani. So they were exposing us to you guys, okay. This is what they were preparing for

2 (42m 5s):
Parents clamor to get their kids into Parkview. The school had a waiting list. We,

15 (42m 11s):
You know, given all kinds of accolades nationally in the press, we had officials coming in and out of our school. Really? They're saying, what are you doing? You know, perhaps we can learn something and they invited us. Actually, the why don't you support other school?

2 (42m 25s):
The hair became well-regarded in education circles. And over the years, he expanded his reach beyond Parkview. He was certified as an inspector for Ofsted, the agency that monitors and rate schools in Britain, the bones that council hired him to train other governors throughout the city, the national department for education, even as the hair and his colleagues, a Parkview to take over to other troubled schools in east Birmingham, which they did. The hair was invited to attend Downing street and by prime minister, Tony Blair, back in Birmingham though, some people resented him.

18 (42m 55s):
I made enemies of a lot of schools in the area. He became like hated amongst beloved.

2 (43m 1s):
Most the same who became Parkview's acting head teacher around this time was the full support of the hairs. But still he and other former colleagues told us, they wished the hair was a bit more circumspect in the way he went around to other schools advocating for reform. He was self-assured blunt. And particularly in sparing would lay it out for head teachers and other school leaders. The way their schools were failing Muslim students,

18 (43m 24s):
To tell her the schools look puff. You can do it puff. You can do pop. You can do it. Same family, same children that you got. They can do it. That's not an excuse. We used to tell tire off of this, a lot, Tom, using this as a beating the stick because it's isolating us amongst other schools.

23 (43m 39s):
He was actually pointing the finger and saying directly to head teachers. You're not doing a good enough job here for these kids.

2 (43m 48s):
Jackie Hughes used to be in charge of school improvement for the Birmingham city council. And she says she can name head teachers that she knows the hair made enemies with. Many of them were used to having the final word on academics. And then here was the here is volunteer with no professional teaching experience, waltz and gain and criticizing their work.

23 (44m 5s):
I mean, actually people come to me and say, I can't understand why you give time. The time of day is a terrible man. He said to me, blah, blah, blah, blah. And they would go sounding

2 (44m 16s):
Colleagues and friends want to hear, you might want to consider softening your approach, but the hair wasn't having it.

15 (44m 23s):
The fight for justice justice, not going to be handed to you on the plate. You know, you have to make space for yourself. So the fact that some people may not be okay with that. It's a different, it's a is irrelevant to me. That's their problem.

2 (44m 38s):
In 2012, Parkview received the ultimate validation and what was probably its proudest moment. And the hairs needed 18 years there, off that arrived for an inspection and deemed the school outstanding. The highest rating possible among the many things inspect it's praise to park view, or the quote wide range of opportunities for spiritual development, including voluntary Friday prayers. In his time as chair of governors, the hero had taken Parkview from the lowest ranking verge of closure to the very top. The person in charge of Offstead chief inspector said, quote, every school in the country should be like this

9 (45m 24s):
Less than two years later on November 27th, 2013, an envelope arrived on the desk of the leader of Birmingham city council. A man named sir Albert bore inside was a cover sheet addressed to him marked very important confidential. Mr. Bore. It said this letter was found when I was clearing my bosses files. And I think you should be aware that I am shocked at what your officers are doing. You have seven days to investigate this matter after which it will be sent to a national newspaper who I'm sure will treat it seriously. Sincerely a N anonymous. Presumably behind that note was the Trojan horse letter for poorly copied pages, shadows at the edges instructions to destroy after reading the letter was written as if from a collaborator of two hears describing a conspiracy to here had been running to take over and Islam by schools by deception.

9 (46m 20s):
It took weeks for, to hear to learn about it. Hear rumors. There was a mysterious letter making its way around Birmingham, around the city council and to head teachers in town, which named him as the orchestrator of a plot. One of, to hear his friends, rush to his house, to tell him that he'd been getting a haircut over on washwood Heath road and afterwards his friend's barber had beckoned them into the backroom of the shop and showed them a copy to hear did not know what to make of it. Finally, he got ahold of the document himself.

15 (46m 48s):
You know, obviously I was thinking, what is the source of this letter who wrote this letter? Why was this letter written? Is what's ringing in my head.

9 (46m 56s):
The front page was missing. So there was no deer, whoever it just started as if it had been going on for a page or more ready. And the letter ended mid sentence too, with the phrase I would also like, so there's no sign off, which meant to hear, couldn't tell exactly who it was supposed to be to or from. But whoever wrote the letter said explicitly to hear, and I

15 (47m 17s):
It's supposed to be from somebody who knows me well in Birmingham. And he's talking to somebody in

9 (47m 23s):
Bradford, another British city, that's home to a lot of Muslims

15 (47m 26s):
He's talking about here. What he's done here. We can do it over there. And he's

9 (47m 31s):
Your friend or your associates,

15 (47m 33s):
Whoever, whoever it is. Yeah. Can you

9 (47m 35s):
Keep reading just the first few paragraphs? Okay.

15 (47m 37s):
Operation Trojan horse has been carefully thought through and is tried and tested within Birmingham to hear. And I will be happy to support your efforts in Bradford. This is a long-term plan and one which we are sure will lead to great success in taking over a number of schools and ensuring that they are run on the strict Islamic principles in Birmingham. The benefits,

9 (48m 3s):
The main tactic of operation Trojan horse is to target head teachers at the schools you want to take control of to make their lives so miserable that they'll resign or else be fired. At which point you can install your own people who will implant Islamic extremism in the school. The author gives several examples of schools in Birmingham were to hear in his cronies were supposedly in the middle of doing this. We have caused a great amount of organized disruption in Birmingham. The letter says, and are on the way to getting rid of more head teachers and taking over their schools. While sometimes the practices we use may not seem the correct way to do things. You must remember that this is a jihad and as such using all means possible to win the war is acceptable. What was your feeling or your attitude?

9 (48m 45s):
Were you laughing at it where you actually kind of taking it seriously and frightened?

15 (48m 50s):
I wasn't laughing actually, because I knew the serious nature of the allegations that were being made. But as far as the claim does, the themselves are concerned. They were laughable. So I knew that there was something not right about what was going on here

9 (49m 3s):
To here contacted the Birmingham city council, where the letter was first sent. He'd done training for them for years.

15 (49m 9s):
And I said, look, I work for you. And this letter apparently is going around claiming certain things. And I'm surprised that you haven't spoken to me to at least to get my view on the matter at least ask me to explain, or if I know anything or whatever or something, and the gentleman, they are actually from the city council. He said, Mr. Olam, to be very honest with you, we don't think anything of that letter. We think it's a completely bogus hoax letter and we don't, we don't believe there is any truth in it. And therefore we didn't take any action. We didn't do anything with it.

9 (49m 44s):
Did you feel reassured

15 (49m 45s):
By that or not really? No. Because then the letter began to be printed in the national media as well.

2 (49m 52s):
Someone leaked the letter to the Sunday times of London. And from there it became a frenzy. One story tend to two dozens in the daily mail, the Telegraph, the spectators sky TV, many of them giving credence to the letter saying that extremists like the hair had allegedly been infiltrating UK schools for years, reporters camped outside park view the stalk the head on the street. We tried to put these

24 (50m 19s):
Allegations to the academies chair of governors, but to

2 (50m 22s):
Hear alarm turned up at his house.

25 (50m 24s):
Hello, Mr. Lamb, Mr. Tom,

15 (50m 27s):
Hello.

2 (50m 30s):
The government kicked into care to investigate this warmed, Parkview offset the school and spectra arrived for two surprise inspections.

15 (50m 39s):
And then we have the education funding agency investigation, which was about 10 days. I think they were in there for 10 days. And soon as they left, we had the PWC

2 (50m 50s):
PricewaterhouseCoopers, big outside auditing

15 (50m 53s):
Firm looking into the financial affairs of the school. So then we have them for four or five weeks in the school as well. I said, what are you looking for? I said, please, what are you looking for? You've been here three weeks. You must have a family.

9 (51m 13s):
There was more the secretary of state for education called an England's former counter-terror chief from Scotland yard, a man named Peter Clark and the Birmingham city council appointed its own special investigator. And they scrutinized Parkview along with 20 some odd other schools and Muslim neighborhoods in the middle of the melee. Some politicians and journalists were saying that the letter itself was likely a hoax. There was some obvious factual and accuracies yet the government believed it's still warranted this action. Honestly, I don't think any authority explain this logic with much clarity at the time. But my understanding of how the thinking went is that even if the letter itself wasn't an actual communique between two real life conspirators, it could still be pointing at a real problem.

9 (51m 57s):
Even if it was fiction. The thinking went, the letter could have been fabricated by someone who had legitimate concerns about Muslim extremists, scheming and wielding influence in schools. And maybe the letter was their creative way of raising an alarm. So rather than looking into who wrote the letter and why instead the government put out general public calls for information about these schools and people started coming forward, mostly anonymously with complaints. Again, investigators found no evidence of radicalization, no evidence of violent extremism and no plot. What emerged instead was a kind of grab bag of Islamic adjacent allegations. Many of the same things authorities had celebrated up to that point. But apparently now we're seeing in a different light like these educators weren't merely allowing students to pray.

9 (52m 41s):
They were pressuring them to pray. They weren't innocently recruiting brown Muslim staff. They were hiring their buddies who thought the same way as they did, and possibly discriminating against non Muslim candidates in the process, school governors, including to here, they weren't holding head teachers to a high standard. They were pressuring them, harassing them and exercising more power than a governor was supposed to. Investigators also said they'd found instances of intolerance towards LGBTQ people and unequal treatment of women and girls. They said Parkview had held assemblies and invited speakers with anti-Western views and the Tahir and people aligned with him allegedly subscribed to quote an intolerant and politicized form of extreme social conservatism that claims to represent and ultimately seeks to control all Muslims, all of this as the then secretary of state for education, put it as she presented the findings on the Trojan horse letter to parliament meant that students,

26 (53m 39s):
Instead of enjoying a broadening and enriching experiences, school, young people are having their horizons narrowed and are being denied. The opportunity to flourish in a modern multicultural Britain

15 (53m 51s):
And individuals as it is for this reason. And with deep sense of injustice and sadness. But today we are announcing our intention to resign our positions at Parkview educational trust and allow our new members to assume responsibility.

9 (54m 6s):
After months of scrutiny and early July, 2014 to here looking tired and stressed, stood at a lectern outside Parkview's gates and resigned to here told us he and the other Parkview governors only agreed to do that because the department of education promised that the head teacher and other on the ground leadership at the school would be kept in place.

15 (54m 27s):
But as soon as a school opened in September, all of those people who are suspended, all the leadership was basically sacked ruthlessly. They went about to destroying their careers, destroying their reputations, and they did that systematically. We had worked for 10, 15 years really to build this school that destroyed it within months,

9 (54m 54s):
The government renamed the school, it's no longer Parkview. It also notified nearly every teacher in governor. You just heard from, to hear included that it was bringing proceedings to ban them from education for the rest of their lives. In the years, since student achievement has plummeted at the school, formerly known as Parkview for more than 70% passing two in recent years from the low 40 to mid 50% range.

2 (55m 22s):
So that's the story of the here told us that first meeting in his makeshift tutoring room that this letter, which has never fully investigated that described a product called operation Trojan horse, which has never found to have existed inspired all of this, the ruining of careers and an educational movement, the fame mongering headlines against Muslims that continue to this day, the government instituting policies that encourage us to spy more brazen on each other. We've been talking with the hair for a couple of hours by this point.

9 (55m 53s):
What time is it? I know you need to leave at some point.

15 (55m 55s):
I don't want, I mean, I'm, I've had to go to Friday prayer now. Yeah. So one o'clock I'm there really? I understand

9 (56m 2s):
It's a lot to talk. So if you

15 (56m 3s):
Wanted to, there there's a lot to no, no, I don't get tired of talking to these things. I mean, you probably could tell, obviously when I talk about that, you know, you begin to relive it, isn't it. And I have to say that, you know, it does, it does sadden me actually as to what has been lost for the children, for the community, the irreparable damage that has been done for absolutely no reason whatsoever. So anyway, can I get you guys some tea or something

2 (56m 43s):
At that event I went to where we all got redirected to the wedding hall. One of the speakers, a columnist named Peter open, put it, well, he said operation Trojan horse has become a social fact in Britain. Even though, within weeks of the Trojan horse that I hit in the news people acknowledged it was probably a hoax. That's never seemed to matter where the Muslims in Birmingham were conspiring or not. Doesn't matter. The intimation that there were has persevered to the extent that prime minister's former chief of staff was outraged, that some people in the community center would dare to say otherwise, but we don't need to settle for a social fact because there are actual facts.

2 (57m 23s):
Why up to this point has no one cared about who wrote this letter and where this letter came from?

15 (57m 32s):
Well, that's my question. That's my, what I've been arguing. This is why I went to the police to see what they could do. This is what I said wrote in my letter to the Birmingham city council that you need to get to the bottom of who wrote the letter. This is what I wrote to the department of education as well. You need to get to the bottom of the letter who wrote the letter, because that will then unravel why the letter was written. You see, so this is what I've been arguing, but the department of education is not interested. The police are not interested. The Birmingham city council is not interested in answering that question.

15 (58m 13s):
Why? Because they have used this letter and on this hoax, they have built so much policy. Do you think now they want to launch an investigation into the letter to have it proven that it was written for completely different reasons. Yeah. How would that make them look like a bunch of monkeys

2 (58m 36s):
As I've been saying, if you could just find out who wrote that letter and why that's the only thing that might change. Britain's understanding of operation Trojan horse,

15 (58m 46s):
But whoever wrote a letter, they, they, they, they knew, you know, they knew me, I think. And I like to think that I know them too.

2 (59m 2s):
Does that mean you

15 (59m 4s):
Have a strong hunch as to who wrote the letter? You know, I strongly believe that I know who wrote the letter and I strongly believe that I know the why was that it was written as well. So you think, you know the who and the motive? Yes.

2 (59m 20s):
That's next on

1 (59m 21s):
The Trojan horse affair. So that is part one of the Trojan horse affair. You can listen to all eight installments right now, wherever you get your podcasts,

27 (59m 40s):
Who's running. Who's got that's in Portland right now in our city. We know, we know, I knew it was red pen. I said, who talks? The talk? He walks, the walk can not sit too. We know, we know what about them? What about them? What about them? What about ? If you're failing

28 (1h 0m 9s):
They never raised <em></em> number. Got to react to <em></em> Ash, thanking God. I'm not one of those kids. Kiersten was in life just because of his class. Can you imagine

1 (1h 0m 30s):
The Trojan horse affair is produced by Brian Reed and hunter SIADH with Rebecca lacks. It's edited by Sarah Kaneisha with helping Julie Snyder, Neil drumming and me contributing editors, Aisha Monoceros Sidiki fact-checkers Marika chronolo and Ben failing. The episode was mixed by Stephen Jackson. Audio was provided by NBC Getty images. The amount of when me and my committee helped put their show into an episode of our show special. Thanks, David Richard, Dan Barry, Kimberly Henderson, the Barkley agency, Kenneth Pomerantz, Greg Clark and John Homewood, Georgia horse affairs made by serial productions and the New York times, our website, this American life.org. This American life is delivered to public radio stations by PRX, the public radio exchange.

1 (1h 1m 13s):
They just always do a program's co-founder toy. <em></em> sure you always loved Shakespeare. The Beatles, the BBC Harry Potter, but it was Fleabag that put him over the top. So from that one,

2 (1h 1m 26s):
I started calling myself British. I was just like, I'm British.

1 (1h 1m 29s):
Oh, in this country. AmeriGas back next week with more stories of this American vibe. Next week on this American life, Jane had always wanted to live by the water and got a house on a cliff

29 (1h 1m 52s):
Bedroom was right on the ocean. And I was in the bedroom and my queen-size bed sat up and my backyard was gone.

1 (1h 2m 6s):
Wow. Houses were collapsing into the ocean. Her neighbors still didn't want to move this next week in the podcast or on your local public radio station.