0 (0s):
Support for this American life comes from indeed. It's a hard time for hiring. You need a hiring partner built for hard times. That's indeed. Instead of spending hours on multiple job sites, hoping to find candidates with the right skills, you need one powerful hiring partner that can help you do it all find great talent through time-saving tools like indeed instant match assessments and virtual interviews start hiring right now with a $75 sponsored job credit to upgrade your job posts at indeed.com/american offer valid through March 30. First terms and conditions apply need to hire. You need indeed, either podcasts listeners. So before we get to the show very quickly, I we're here.

0 (41s):
As you may know, a couple of years back, the New York times got into the podcast business in this big way. They came up with a show, the daily that's been a huge hit. They're making other shows and they thought we're not done. You know what nobody's doing so well, nobody's figured out how to guide podcast listeners to what to listen to next. And they have thrown themselves at this problem and created this app every day. The editors of the New York times put together a set of audio stories with a mix of podcasts and articles from all sorts of magazines that are read out loud. Obviously also things from their own newspaper. Our show is going to be on there. Also our archive. Also the new shows that our colleagues at serial we're putting out the idea is a mix of stuff.

0 (1m 25s):
That's going to be curated and changing every day. And I'm telling you all this cause they need beta testers. This doesn't pay any money or anything, but if you want to be one of the first people to try this out and help them make it better, let them know what's good. And what's bad. Go to N Y times.com/audio. There's a quick survey there where you can sign up again. That's N Y times.com/audio. All right. Here's today's show from WBZ Chicago. It's this American life. Here's that? Richard.

1 (2m 1s):
He had his IRA.

0 (2m 2s):
Yes. Hi, the day Russia invaded Ukraine Thursday. At the very end of the day, I reached Richard and sor Ukraine correspondent for the economist. It started the day in the Capitol Kiev, and it's been much of the day traveling,

1 (2m 15s):
But you're on speakerphone. I've just moved into my safe house.

0 (2m 19s):
What do you mean by safe house?

1 (2m 22s):
Well, I'm in Lovett, you know, close to the Polish border. And in January I came here and I rented a half flat for three months on the off chance that all hell broke loose. And you know, there wasn't a spare. There wouldn't be a spare flat in Lovett available because this is the place that everyone was going to run. Wow. And so I, you know, had this sort of set of case in the, in the, in the back pocket of, you know, just waiting for, in case catastrophe strikes and catastrophe struck. And so now when I'm tired and after one of the longest days in my life, you're coming home at 2:00 AM, I've got a place to lay my head.

0 (3m 4s):
That's incredible that you ended up having to use it and that you are using it.

1 (3m 8s):
I called up a rental agency and they asked me what color I wanted the bricks to be. And I was just thinking, I hope I never have to see these walls. So just give me what you got

0 (3m 19s):
With them was a woman that he met on the train who needed a place to stay before grabbing another train to Poland. Consequences of talking to the Western press are not queer. So she asked me to call her Natalie here in radio. She's an English teacher, 25 Ukrainian who grew up a few hours from Kiev, but moved to the city five years ago. And when she told me the long frightening journey she had made that day, escaping the city while the Russians invaded it. Wasn't one of those war stories where you think, oh, I can't imagine what it would be like to go through that. In fact, it was exactly the opposite for anybody who has ever lived in a decent sized city. It is a shockingly instantly easy to imagine. Every moment of it happens in such familiar kinds of places, just not woken up by sounds of bombing, but by her stepfather, calling on Skype from England where he lives

2 (4m 8s):
And he woke me up and said that Russians have Bombay in the airport. So I, you know, I, I was pretty sleepy and I didn't believe it. And then I heard the jet and I was just freaking out. I was panicking. They were born then somewhere. It was pretty close to me. And it was pretty terrifying,

0 (4m 37s):
Terrifying. She says, but a very specific kind of terrifying. And you don't usually run into,

2 (4m 43s):
I felt like your baby, actually, I'm sorry. You felt like your baby because I was alone in the darkness of the morning, empty streets. Some strange sounds nobody's around. And only my stepfather staring at me from the UK on the screen. You know, I felt like I'm not a woman. I'm a baby.

0 (5m 12s):
What do you mean? You felt like a baby.

2 (5m 15s):
First of all, you are not able to protect yourself. You are not able to do anything because you are baby. You, you are helpless. I see. And yeah, you just want somebody to come and to save you.

0 (5m 33s):
She said she didn't want to feel this way for another minute. So she packed her things and called some friends who have a car, told them we have to get out of the city really fast. They handed over to pick her up. It's not far, but they got stuck in traffic. So many people were trying to flee. Finally, when they got to her, they decided to head to a suburb called IR pin, just outside cube, maybe 20 miles. It should be a 40 minute drive on a normal day. One of the friend's parents had a house

2 (5m 59s):
Because there is a seller, you know, and again, we got stuck in the traffic because people were panicking as well as we did. And on the way we, so the Russians helicopters,

0 (6m 17s):
The helicopters were shooting she's has turns out that a European was close to one of the big battles and key of that first day, over an airport in hosta, Mel Russians sent helicopters to seize it, hoping presumably to use it, to bring in troops and supplies, to take the city. At one point during the day it was reported. They had captured the airport. Then later that Ukrainian soldiers surrounded them and took it back at this point. The Russians seem to have it again. So anyway, that is what Natalie and her friends were driving towards.

2 (6m 45s):
Seeing this. It wasn't terrifying anymore because we, in the constant state of shock, we were just staring at it, just staring. And we were just trying to save our lives. That's it.

0 (7m 5s):
They got to the friend's house. The one with the seller took a look around. They were so close to all this fighting and Natalie decided this isn't right. She was going to turn around. She was going to undo everything she had spent the morning doing. Go back to keep where she'd just come from and try to get a train from there to the border, which would mean leaving a place where at least there would be some shelter and heading into who knows what?

2 (7m 31s):
Because everybody was, we're saying no, stay. You just have to stay. But I was listening to my inner voice. I, I, I was just, I needed to get to ball and to get out the country, or at least to west of Ukraine, we were afraid that maybe the borders will be closed soon. It is my point of view. When you move, you stay life. It is my point of view. I just, you know, I'm also really anxious and I just feel better when I'm doing something.

2 (8m 11s):
When I'm on the move, that means like I'm protecting myself.

0 (8m 18s):
One guy decided to go with her. Somebody who she'd never met before that day, but it seemed like a rational guy. She said, you want to stick with rational people in emergency situations, the friends drove them to the train station or local train. They could take them back to the cave. And when they arrived in cave, they hoped to take the subway. But keep subways were closed because they include these stations that are deep, underground, that double as bomb shelters. And that's what they were being used.

2 (8m 43s):
And we had to work. We had to work and we were pretty close to the area where military was sorry, I can name it exactly. I was just busy running

0 (8m 58s):
Where you literally running,

2 (9m 1s):
Let's say jogging.

0 (9m 3s):
They finally get to the train station with trans, that could take them west to the border. They had no tickets. It was mobbed. Natalie had money ready in case she needed to bribe somebody to get on a train, but it was such a moment of solidarity. The conductors, just to let people on without tickets Richard, the economist correspondent was on that train with her. And he told me he had never been in a refugee situation with so many cats. He said, it felt like everybody on the train brought their cat. Eight hours later, she was halfway across the country, 300 miles away, far from the fighting.

2 (9m 35s):
Anything that actually may happen and everything is changing so fast.

0 (9m 39s):
Like it was just two days ago. She told me she did a photo shoot with a friend in the center of Kiev.

2 (9m 44s):
It was sunny blue sky. She bought me some flowers, you lips or something. And we were just enjoying it, Kevin coffee. And now I am a like almost refugee.

0 (10m 4s):
It was hard to believe it happened, even though she was somebody who had thought Putin would invade. And she thought that he would quickly try to take care of. She had actually been in the process of getting a visa to get out, but she said, most people didn't believe that for themselves. It wasn't happening.

2 (10m 17s):
You know, it is like a little light to yourself to feel safer.

0 (10m 24s):
I got back on the line with Richard, from the economist, he's actually talked to lots of Ukrainians about this and pointed out that the country's media and its president for weeks have been saying nothing is going to happen. Putin was just posturing. And unless you read the foreign press, you probably wouldn't believe Putin was going to embed. Also, he said

1 (10m 41s):
The first thing that any Ukrainian will tell you is that that country has been at war for eight years. And so the idea that this, all that Russian battalion coming near that border suddenly means that an invasion is likely, they'll say the invasion happened in 2014,

0 (10m 57s):
2014 is when the Russian military took Crimea from Ukraine and pro-Russian separatists and to Ukrainian territories, to seeded from the country.

1 (11m 6s):
And there've been also all manner of different false alarms and ceasefires coming and going threats, you know, crazy rhetoric since then. And so such a rollercoaster ride, the idea that, you know, in their minds, the idea that a bunch of troops turning up on the border changes the game for them. It's just the latest chess move or the latest drama. And a lot of people have worked out a great recipe for happiness, which is just turning off the, you know, the timeline and, and not reading any of this.

0 (11m 37s):
What did you see three months ago that convinced you that this might happen? And you got an apartment on the other side of the country?

1 (11m 47s):
Well, the thing that really worried me was it wasn't any true movements. It was the negotiations on December the 17th, Russia unveiled a list of demands and you read these demands and you start to say, oh my God, they don't care because they're asking for things that they know they can't get. And the only kind of person who conducts those kinds of negotiations is someone who doesn't really care. What's another good whether the negotiations succeed or fail. And when I saw that, that's when I realized that just going through the motions, you know, that they're not serious about these negotiations, but they are serious about the troops on the border.

0 (12m 36s):
It's so crazy though. You have an entire country with millions of people who basically just have to guess what one man is going to do.

1 (12m 44s):
Yeah. And maybe more than just an entire country, that'd be a whole wall

0 (12m 48s):
Today. In our program, we have an episode of our show that we put together back in 2017 about that man. Well, I remember Putin at the time, it was inspired by news that had people guessing what his intentions were and what he was thinking. We wanted to understand them better. And there's one story we found the tech. One of today's show that I have to admit, I've been thinking about for weeks as Putin, amassed troops around the Ukrainian border. It's the story about whether he came to power in 1999 by killing a few hundred innocent Russians. So we have that. If you haven't heard it, you really should. And more including what Russians think of him, stay with us Going in with a bang.

0 (13m 36s):
So if you heard the story, this is something people speculated about years ago, but now it seems mostly forgotten. That happened, right? When Vladimir Putin was coming to power, this was back in 1999, Boise Altima's president running Russia. Putin was the prime minister, not well known, not well-liked polling it 2% as possible presidential candidate. And then, but not only been prime minister for a month, there was a series of bombings of apartment buildings in Moscow and elsewhere 300 people died. Putin blamed it on Chechen. Rebels invaded Chechnya started the second Chechen war, which he won. It was a popular war, catapulted him into the presidency, but he took office.

0 (14m 16s):
He had 53% of the vote. And even back then, when he took office in 2000, there was a question, did he bomb those buildings himself to create the pretext for the war and his own rise to power? If he did, of course, it causes the legitimacy of his presidency into question in a big way, murdering his own constituents. Exactly the kinds of Russians that he claims to be serving and protecting as president, whenever producers, Robyn Semyon, talked to reporters who covered this and reviewed the evidence with them before we get to the more mysterious aspects of the bombings, a quick summary of what happened.

5 (14m 51s):
The bombings came in fast succession for bombs in two weeks in random locations and Moscow and two other cities early September was the first one, a bomb and a truck went off right outside an apartment building, collapsing it over 60 people died days later, thousands of miles away. Another bomb goes off on the ground floor of a nine story apartment building nine stories, flattened killing over 90 people within days, there was another one and then a fourth buildings destroyed in the night while people were inside sleeping. David sadder was in and out of the country. At the time he's been reporting on Russia since the seventies,

6 (15m 32s):
It was an atmosphere of panic. The whole country was terrified. People began to fear that any apartment building could be blown up in the middle of the night and any family could be buried under the rubble. There are 30,000 apartment blocks in Moscow and patrols night patrols were organized in all of them to prevent terrorists from putting bombs in the basements.

5 (16m 1s):
The government immediately blamed the bombings on Chechen gorillas. Scott Anderson is another reporter who's written about. The

3 (16m 8s):
Chechens tend to be more darkly complected than your typical ethnic Russians. So anyone who was darkly complected on the streets of Moscow was subject to arrest or being beaten up. And so a lot of people from the caucuses, they, they would just stay inside. They were, they were afraid to go out on the streets.

5 (16m 27s):
This story that Chechens or behind the bombings was kind of fishy for starters. It was three years after Chechnya and Russia had finished a war. The first touch in war Chechnya basically won. They signed a peace treaty again, Scott,

3 (16m 42s):
What motive did the Chechens have to start this bombing campaign against Russia? When they pretty much had everything they wanted, there was no reason to fight the Russians at this point,

5 (16m 55s):
Right? They'd won the war.

3 (16m 56s):
That's right. They'd won the war.

5 (16m 58s):
So why commit acts of terror that were big enough to start another war and just logistically it would've been hard to pull off.

3 (17m 5s):
Even in 1999, Russia was, it was a very heavily policed state. And so certainly by after we're like the second or third bombing, there were police checkpoints all over, certainly all over Moscow, all over major Russian cities. So the idea of these bombers moving around and these are kind of crude. Explosives are very heavy, 50 kilos sacks of, of explosives. You need to haul around, so you need a car. So you're going through checkpoints and with the whole hysteria against, against Chechen, certainly anybody who was, again, darkly complected going through a checkpoint was going to be thoroughly searched.

5 (17m 43s):
Even some people in the government question, the official account David Sater was in Moscow, right after the bombings and a friend who had good connections told David, there were people in the security services who suspected the FSB. That's the modern version of the KGB basically might be behind the bombings. So David asked to meet some of those guys in person, and they agreed that this was such a dangerous idea. They wanted to make sure they weren't caught. So they had this very private conversation in a very public place in the center of Moscow.

6 (18m 17s):
I didn't want to give away too many details, but I was in, in a, in a store of some sort in a building, not far from the Bolshoi theater and people coming and going, but we didn't give any indication what we were talking about. Just a couple of men standing there talking about something.

5 (18m 38s):
The agents didn't have proof, but some things just didn't add up.

6 (18m 43s):
For example, the simple fact that the buildings were blown up with hexagon, which is a very, very powerful explosive. That's used to top off artillery shells and is, is available only in one factory in Russia, which is tightly guarded by the FSB.

5 (19m 1s):
It's also at military bases, but how would terrorists get hexagon at all? The agents said, let alone drive big quantities of it around Russia unchecked. When you heard this stuff, were you thinking these arguments were convincing or were you also thinking well, okay.

6 (19m 19s):
I wasn't completely convinced that this was a government provocation, but what convinced me was the bomb that did not go off the fifth bomb

5 (19m 33s):
With bomb in yet another city redesign. And this is where the story about the Chechens seems to really fall apart and where the story gets truly strange. September 22nd, 1999, two and a half weeks after the first department bomb, a couple of residents and a building and RIAs on notice something weird. One guy, a bus driver who lived in the building, saw a car, a white sedan parked outside the building. Maura Reynolds was a foreign correspondent for the LA times back then living in Moscow.

5 (20m 14s):
She talked to the guy who told her the license plates on the car didn't look right. They had a local city code on them for reason, the number 62, but he told Maura when he looked closer, he saw that the number

7 (20m 29s):
Had been written on. It had been drawn on by hand. It didn't look like it was stamped into the metal license plate, like

5 (20m 37s):
With a Sharpie or

7 (20m 38s):
Something. Yeah. Like a magic marker on a piece of paper taped over the license plate. And that was immediately like something that kind of, he

5 (20m 47s):
Thought, huh? So it calls the police. In the meantime, two men get out of the car

3 (20m 52s):
And start carrying heavy sacks of something into the, the buildings basement. The people jump back in the car and they take off.

5 (21m 2s):
That's got Anderson again. The local police show up, they went

7 (21m 6s):
Down into the basement and came running back up saying, it's a bomb. It's a bomb.

3 (21m 13s):
Ryan is essentially sealed off within hours, thousands and thousands of soldiers and police cordoned off the city. And they began this massive Dragnet for these two men and a woman who was in the car. Also

5 (21m 26s):
Local FSB start coming through evidence. Detonator was found in the basement. Here's the TV news clip from then from a documentary about the bombings called disbelief. The reporter says the sacks were discovered by police sacks were taken to a lab that concluded the contents were hexagon. The same explosive use to blow up the other buildings, the stuff that's supposedly only the FSB and military had access to One day after the bomb scare prime minister of Latin Putin, who remember his only been in the job for a month, launches the second war against Chechnya over the bombings.

5 (22m 15s):
He says, quote, the question is closed once. And for all, we will pursue the terrorists everywhere. If they are in an airport than in an airport. And forgive me if we catch them in the crapper, then we'll rub them out in the crapper and quote. Meanwhile, back in RIAs on local police find the mysterious white sedan and the two suspects. There were not Chechen. They were Russian Russian FSB agents with FSB IDs. The head of the FSB Nikolai, Patricia goes on TV. And it's like, there's a totally reasonable explanation for FSB agents to be caught doing this.

5 (22m 56s):
The whole thing was a drill. This audio of that announcement is from a documentary about the bombings called blowing up Russia.

8 (23m 4s):
And then yeah, well, first of all, there wasn't an explosion and that explosion wasn't prevented, but it wasn't good work. It was an exercise.

3 (23m 14s):
He goes in front of the cameras. He makes this little statement

5 (23m 16s):
Again, Scott Andrews.

3 (23m 18s):
He doesn't take questions. He walks away. It's just like, yo. Yeah, that was, that was just a military exercise.

5 (23m 23s):
I asked for the hexagon, there was no hexagon. He says there were no explosives, the white powder in the bags. He explained what sugar, More Reynolds talked to people who lived in the apartment building and resigned back then she, people were angry and they thought their own government had tried to kill them though. Of course, since this was Russia, they wouldn't

7 (23m 54s):
Quite that way. What they would say over and over again was in the form of a question whose interests were served by this who had something to gain. It doesn't make sense, but who had something to gain?

5 (24m 11s):
Would you ask them? Who do you

7 (24m 12s):
Think? Yeah. And what would people say? Who else the government? But let me say that some didn't, weren't willing to go to say that out loud, you know, they would say who had something to gain and then there would be a pause and you know, they would raise their eyebrows. And I would say, who do you think? And they'd say, who do you think

5 (24m 40s):
At the time there was still something of a free press. People could speak out and did This is tape from a TV special on an independent channel, the NTV network, which has since been taken over by the state. The special is like a talk show with a host, some FSB, higher ups and people from the building who were pretty mad. Again, this comes from the documentary disbelief. You're saying people have RIAs on and many other towns just do not believe all these stories I'm sitting here and just cannot not believe the story. The FSB is telling I myself, I'm a military officer.

5 (25m 24s):
I was a senior officer for 28 years. I was in charge of countless exercises. What these generals are claiming about this so-called exercise. I just can't believe my ears. All of this unfolds very quickly. Putin becomes prime minister in August. The bombings are in September. The worst starts in September. Also Putin is the public face of the war and it's going well, this is when his popularity source And our new year's Eve at midnight, the president at the time, Boris Yeltsin makes an announcement.

11 (26m 6s):
Yeah, I see it. My parole again, Norway,

3 (26m 14s):
Boris Yeltsin announces complete shocking announcement that he's going to retire. He's going to resign the presidency effective immediately. He names Vladimir Putin acting president Putin's very first act. His very first presidential decree is to stop all corruption investigations into Boris Yeltsin. These investigations had been going on. The elections are supposed to be in June. Instead. He moves them up to March, which gives opposition parties very little time to organize. And then he wins the presidency outright in March. So in this incredibly short period, about eight months, he goes from being a complete unknown to being the president of Russia.

5 (27m 1s):
Laura Reynolds says when redesign happened, she saw it in local news reports, but it wasn't a huge story. FSB may or may not have planted explosives. It wasn't clear what it meant. And it was quickly drowned out by the invasion and the war only in retrospect, did it start to seem significant? And in retrospect, there were other pieces of evidence that started to seem important. I'll tell you one more right after one of the bombs went off in Moscow, this was the third bomb. The speaker of the Russian parliament, a guy named <em></em> mentioned the bomb, but got the city wrong. Mind you. He was in Moscow and the bomb was in Moscow, but he said the bomb went off in Vogan don'ts here's Scott Anderson.

3 (27m 47s):
I say, oh, well he, somehow he said Volgodonsk instead of Moscow, except at three days later at a apartment building in <em></em> was blown up. Wow. You raising the question of how is the lesson you often knew about the bombing three days ahead of time?

5 (28m 4s):
The next thing that happens is After the bomb finally did go off and Vogue. And don'ts another member of parliament, a guy named Zhirinovsky confronts the speaker about how suspicious this looks. He says, you told us on Monday that a building in Vulcan don't, squiz blown up three days before the explosion. You're not ASCII calls the act monstrous and says, they'll try to keep the speaker from being reelected, but he's hard to hear because they keep cutting his microphone off. Someone calls ear and Oskia scumbag, and then a scoundrel who deserves to be shot.

5 (28m 48s):
Finally, in off ski turns around, walks away and gets hit in the back with a folder of papers. There was an official government investigation into the apartment bombings trials convictions all held in private, not open to the public or press people were convicted. They were not FSB agents. They were not Chechens either. There have been people outside the government who tried to look deeper into the bombings, but overall that hasn't gone well, most notably, an independent commission of human rights, activists, politicians, and investigators.

5 (29m 31s):
Again, Scott,

3 (29m 32s):
The head of that commission was killed, was murdered shot to death in front of his house. Another member of the committee died under mysterious circumstances and a poet called Skyah investigative journalists. One of Russia's leading investigative journalists was murdered in her apartment building. She had written about the casting doubts on the apartment building bombings. And of course, Alexander Litvinenko came out publicly accusing the Putin regime of, of doing apartment building bombings. He is poisoned with polonium in London in 2006 and dies

5 (30m 4s):
Radioactive poison polonium two 10 slipped into his T I British investigation, determined to FSB agents had killed Litvinenko and that Putin had likely signed off on it. And his autobiography, which came out in 2000 Putin, roundly denied any FSB involvement in the bombings writing quote, what blowing up our own apartment buildings. You know, that is really utter nonsense. It's totally insane. No one in the Russian special services would be capable of such a crime against his own people.

5 (30m 45s):
Unquote, David Satar has been researching this since it happened and has written two books about it. He's convinced the story went like this before the bombings, even before Putin came to power, Boris Yeltsin and his administration were plagued with corruption investigations. He worried they could eventually point to him and his family, especially if some other party or someone unsympathetic to him became president. So we looked to a point of prime minister who he could trust. He fired two other guys. And just three months before landing on Putin, then he and Putin together had the apartments blown up as the pretext to go to war and in the patriotic glow to install Putin and quash, the corruption investigations, Scott and Maura.

5 (31m 33s):
Aren't so sure for Maura, when it comes to the bombings, she gets that something was done by design and that it appears to be for political purposes, but as for who was behind the bombings. Exactly.

7 (31m 47s):
I mean, if you ask me what I think I have to say to this day, I do not know, but this is what I would say is that right now, it doesn't matter.

5 (32m 0s):
What do you mean?

7 (32m 2s):
Because whether the government or people around Putin played a role or whether they didn't, the effect is the same either you believe what they said about the bombings, that there were terrorists out to kill ordinary Russians. In which case you are frightened and the world is a very scary place, or you believe that your government or someone connected to the government could be bloody-minded enough to kill 300 innocent civilians in their beds.

7 (32m 46s):
In which case, the world is a very scary place and you should be frightened. This is how it works in a police state. You should be frightened. And that's how the government exercises control.

5 (33m 8s):
It's been nearly two decades since the bombings. And I wanted to know what do people in Russia think about them? Putin is still their president. How big a deal are. They are people walking around wondering if their president came to power by killing hundreds of Russian citizens. So I interviewed four people who live in Moscow. None of them said they were big supporters of Putin. Three of the four had heard the rumor that he was behind the bombings. None of them believed it or wanted to believe it. I can't know the truth. So I can't say a 42 year old screenwriter told me a 22 year old student I talked to said she didn't want to know if it was true.

5 (33m 48s):
Ask for reassign. Only one of the four telecommunication specialist had heard anything about RIAs on the sacks of sugar. Any of that, you knew all the details though. Read a book about it. And he believes raison was an FSB drill. The one person who'd never heard the story that Putin might be behind the bombings with Yulia a 40 year old lawyer.

13 (34m 11s):
<em></em> so ,

14 (34m 18s):
It's just not something that people discuss the media. Doesn't say anything about it. The families don't talk to each other about this and friends. Don't talk about this to each other.

5 (34m 30s):
Does it just seem like old news?

14 (34m 34s):
Yes,

5 (34m 35s):
Absolutely. So I ran through all the facts with her, all the evidence that Putin might be behind the bombings. She said she didn't care. Does it sound like a ridiculous theory? I asked, yes. She said most likely some ridiculous theory

0 (35m 5s):
Back to Mr. Popular. So one of the notable things about vitamin Putin is that for years he's had stunningly high approval ratings among Russians in January and early February of this year, as tensions rose with Ukraine, his approval numbers rose with them to 71% from the sixties. And back in 2017. When we first broadcast today's program, the press was reporting that his approval ratings were something like 84%, which for us president, that would be just like unthinkable. And we wondered, is that real at all? That 4%? Or is that from some, you know, institution controlled by Putin? So back then we asked Charles mains to look into this for us. He is now MPRs Moscow correspondent.

15 (35m 48s):
Well, it is real. I mean, these are real polls where large numbers of real people really do to answer questions. Russia has two big polling firms that are essentially state sponsored and one that's independent. And all three of these get basically the same numbers. This month, Putin dropped by 2% to 82% and American pollsters like Gallup and pew. You know, they also get the same results in the eighties yeah. In the eighties.

0 (36m 12s):
But are people just saying that they like Putin because they are scared to say anything else? Well, that's

15 (36m 17s):
Part of it. I mean, especially with older people, there was a poll done by this Levada center. This is the independent pollster in Russia saying that 26% of all respondents said, they're afraid to share their views of the government with pollsters. So that probably inflates the number, but just how much isn't really clear.

0 (36m 32s):
So okay. If 82%, isn't the right number. Like, do we have any sense of what a more accurate measure of his popularity might be?

15 (36m 38s):
Well, well, some pollsters say it's the so-called electoral rating. This is when you ask Russians who they'd actually vote for like the Levada center has this poll. They do where they say, if the presidential elections were held next Sunday, who would you vote for? And then only 55% said, they'd vote for Putin. And that's again, the independent pollsters, the state one has a figure. That's a little higher, 64%. But you know, that's hardly the 82 84 that we've seen.

0 (37m 3s):
So what I get from this is take the 80 to 84% approval rating with a grain of salt. But it is true that most people approve of him.

15 (37m 10s):
Yeah. He's still really popular.

0 (37m 12s):
Okay. So to hear what that approval is all about and what people think of him, we asked you to talk to some people who like him, which you did people across the country. And then you put together this story about one.

15 (37m 23s):
This is someone I knew wouldn't exaggerate their feelings about the president because they were talking to a foreign reporter. Someone I've known for decades. So that's her talking here August are gay. And that Dimitri, I live with August her game and our two children back in the mid nineties when I was an exchange student in Moscow, it's a good five years before Putin arrived on the scene. Over the years, she took in several American exchange students. That's her telling me I was her favorite. And I tell her, I always say, I have a Russian mom. <em></em> she says, I always say I have an American son who I don't see as much as I like .

15 (38m 4s):
We took the tram to her apartment, building through the neighborhood. I lived in with her family back in the nineties and she started pointing out all these changes. We put them through a new playground, new stores. And just by the new museum, they're building a community pool lesson. Now none of this was here back when I lived with them. It's all part of the prosperity. That's come to Moscow since Putin came to power and it's why August or gave none and lots of people in our generation, she's in her sixties. It's why they love Putin. When I lived with August or gave nine or family, Boris Yeltsin was precedent and things in Russia were really, really tough. In fact, there's a poll for that.

15 (38m 44s):
It says 68% of Russians think nothing good happened in Russia during the Yeltsin years, nothing August forgiveness says life was hard back then people didn't have enough money when grocery stores were empty and they only began to clear with the arrival of Latimer Putin. It seems almost hard to remember now, but when Putin first arrived as prime minister in 1999, Russians had no idea who he was. He was this awkward public speaker back then his suits real fitting. The guy never smiled. Hardly says all this Sergei gave note the specimen she sees. Now, even when you can

16 (39m 24s):
Use now,

15 (39m 25s):
She told me Putin's appearance was predicted earlier. When mystics said one day, a man named Melodia would save Russia. Melodia is short for Bladimir. Lots of the older generation will tell you stuff like this. Nobody thought that savior would be Putin. I mean, let's face it. She says he's kind of short. No one believed he changed Russia. That Russia would rise from its knees, But it did rise from its needs. His predecessor, Boris Yeltsin was seen as this buffoon visibly drunk in meetings with world leaders and embarrassment. Putin was younger. He didn't drink the fact that he was a former KGB agent at least meant he was disciplined and educated.

15 (40m 7s):
He spoke German practice judo, and he brought an end to the chaos of the Yeltsin years during which the ruble had collapsed. Several times, government was constantly reshuffled and a few insiders. The so-called oligarchs became billionaires while most everyone else lost their savings. But as soon as Putin took over the economy boomed mostly because of oil prices shooting up and SUNY exiled or arrested oligarchs. Who've been running the country behind the scenes. A lot of people talk about how Putin saved Russia. If you compare 1994 and 2017 oldest gave him the says the difference is night and day.

15 (40m 50s):
When you're looking at me, China in 1994 and 95, we didn't celebrate holidays. Nobody was in a festive mood. The theaters were all closed because nobody went, nobody had money. Putin. She says she lives a comfortable life. Has a job can afford to travel, can go out to eat or to the theater. It's hard to overstate how important this is during Putin's first decade and power. Russians had never lived better. Particularly in the bigger cities. People like August are gaining. It became part of something that was happening for the first time ever in Russia. The emergence of the middle-class over time, this economic miracle turn Putin into sort of a folk hero.

15 (41m 34s):
There's the side of him. We know in America, the guy flying jets or riding horses shirtless, but in Russia, he's cultivated this image that he's frugal lives modestly works all the time. A political analyst told me Putin seen as the only one who can fix anything or improve people's lives. The one who keeps corrupt bureaucrats and check he's the good czar for . It wasn't just that Putin made the country better. It was that he could do no wrong. I love

16 (42m 4s):
Y you bloom, but

15 (42m 7s):
'cause, he's smart, intelligent, cultured athletic. She says he's even a musician plays and sings. I asked her if there's anything, he can't do her responses. He can't cook, but he doesn't need to. Finally I said, come on. Isn't there anything you don't like about him? Anything at all?

16 (42m 32s):
Nip nip nip. No.

15 (42m 37s):
While we were talking August or gave an, a, brought me over to her computer, started scrolling through her Facebook page. They're going to see she subscribes to a Putin feed just to see what he's up to. And her feed is filled with pictures of him, Putin, snarling, food, laughing. Doesn't he look like a benevolent Lord. She says, I just want to point out here that August or game that doesn't work for the government or Putin's United Russia party. She's an accountant. She has been for decades with a daughter who lives in London and a son who works for an American tech company. One of the things August are getting the likes best is that Putin stands up to the west. And this is a big thing for Russians.

15 (43m 17s):
Is Putin likes to say when they curse me in the west, it means I'm doing the right thing. When it comes to the bad things, Americans hear about Putin, that he's corrupt, that he's secretly one of the world's richest men, or that he's medaled in the American elections, August a game that says that's all lies perpetuated by Western journalists. People like me, a reminder that we have this ongoing joke where she tells me to leave our Putin alone. And she says, she means it I asked her about the many opponents of Putin's who've ended up dead, the journalist and a pilot call sky or Alexander Litman.

15 (44m 0s):
Yanka the KGB whistleblower, who was poisoned with a radioactive isotope who poisoned him. She asks some, say it was Putin. I teller, please. Everyone says it's Putin. The moment somebody sneezes or farts in Russia, Putin is to blame. I say, but what about the opposition leader? Boris themself. He was killed, but she interrupts me and says, The sword. There was an investigation, died over love triangle. She doesn't buy any of it. In fact, a lot of vulgaris gave him his opinions or things you might hear on state TV.

15 (44m 44s):
But I think with August <em></em> and the other people, I talk to people who love Putin, the moments I understand them best, or when they talk about the past everything they went through before Putin arrived. It's why sometimes I think the real reason people like Putin is not because they believe he'll keep moving Russia forward into the future. It's because they fear someone else. Anyone else might drive Russia back to the past

0 (45m 20s):
Charles veins in Moscow this past week, he found Olga the day that Moscow invaded Ukraine to find out what you thought. If he thinks Putin made the right call, that he was going in to help the separatists in Eastern Ukraine have declared themselves independent of Ukraine. And from Moscow, she believes Ukrainian authorities were going to attack people in that territory with arms, they got from the United States, president of Ukraine Zelenskyi. She told Charles he's a clown. Biden's a dope Putin, still the smartest of the pack Coming up. Another reason Russian see Putin the way they do. We get to know the disinformation mastermind who reshaped the world of Russian politics into what it is now.

0 (46m 2s):
That is in a minute Chicago public radio. When our program continues just American life, Myra glass today's program, the other Mr. President stories of Bladimir Putin and those around him, we've arrived at act three of our program. Act three, maybe pay a little attention to the man behind the curtain. There's a quote that we heard while we were working on today's program back in 2017 from a writer named Peter Pomerantz. He said that if the old Soviet union was 75% violence, twenty-five percent propaganda in today's Russia, those numbers are reversed. It's twenty-five percent violence and 75% propaganda and propaganda. It was radically reinvented under vitamin Putin, its tactics and its methods.

0 (46m 45s):
But this one political operative junk hole explains

17 (46m 49s):
And the operatives name is lattice lofts or cough. He was Putin's deputy of chief for more than a decade, starting in 1999 in Russia, he is what's referred to as a political technologist, but those are a diamond dozen. At the top of his powers. Surf had a much more ominous if unofficial title, he was known as a gray, Cardinal, he doesn't look like a shadowy mastermind and he sort of resembles Rowan Atkinson, the actor who played Mr. Bean except handsomer. And he actually doesn't manage propaganda at the Kremlin anymore, but the methods he invented to manipulate people in information I've even heard them called artistic CE in Soviet era, the country was run by the communist party and the propagandists pumped out, literally the party line and tried to suppress all other opposing messages.

17 (47m 38s):
And then the iron curtain fell a whole bunch of new political parties were created. And it was the messy, early stages of a real democracy with parties, bickering, and vying for power. And then when Putin became president, I'm obviously skipping over a lot here. His right-hand man Surkov helped solidify the Kremlin's power by putting together this party called United Russia, which gained majority in parliament and backed Putin. And then instead of tamping down the opposition like the old days, Surkov built a new system where there was opposition, but he dictated what the opposition stood for.

18 (48m 16s):
Allow political parties to create their own agendas. You just write this agendas for them.

17 (48m 22s):
This is Vassili Gattov, he's been a very high level player in Russian media for nearly 20 years. These days, he's a visiting fellow at the Annenberg center on communication, leadership and policy.

18 (48m 32s):
Well, we decided one of our parties is left party with some sort of communism and other party is you're a socialist and the third parties, a deep conservative kind of evangelicals, and the fourth party would be sort of liberal radicals. And that's what for COF actually constructed.

17 (48m 55s):
And he created whole new political parties and wrote their agendas. For example,

18 (49m 0s):
He created a party at Colts printed lever. I see it just Russia. Just Russia. Yeah, that was, it was a political cadaver.

17 (49m 10s):
Are you saying cadaver, like a corpse

18 (49m 12s):
Cadaver, like a

17 (49m 13s):
Cadaver, I mean like Frankenstein,

18 (49m 15s):
Frankenstein. Yeah. Got it created from some sort of pieces of socialists, labor activists, more broke government type of labor unions. He also decided that he cannot allow any grassroots activities, which would not be vetted by Kremlin. So he decided that he will create also youth movements and right agenda for them. And he also tried to do the same thing. Was NGOs like political NGOs or those that control elections transparency or expose corruption, sort of writing agendas for every, every one of them in the Kremlin.

17 (50m 7s):
It's like directing a movie in a way.

18 (50m 9s):
Absolutely. I would even provide you with a very funny hypothesis in 2001, I think Russia has been invaded by reality shows things like survivor big brother, and he was amazed how scripting can improve. Even those likely spontaneous interactions between people. And I know that he was very good friends with all the producers of this reality show actually. And actually I think he was once even present at the filming of the Russian version of survivor

17 (50m 49s):
No way. And he's like, if they can do that on TV sort of fake reality and TV, maybe we can fake reality in reality either way.

18 (50m 59s):
Yeah.

17 (51m 4s):
And by 2003, so about four years into circus, tenure has great Cardinal. He says, sir, cough had built up a whole cadre of deputies that would carry out his agenda with these different parties and other groups. I asked facility for an example of how all this worked. And he told me what everybody told me. When I asked for specifics, he said, it's not like I was in the room with them. I don't know exactly what he said to whom nor when he did tell me about this one case that he heard about from someone who worked with Surkov in 2004, Vladimir Putin decided that governors shouldn't be elected anymore. They should be appointed by him. It's a long story. But at first, every other political party besides Putin's was against the idea genuinely against it.

17 (51m 47s):
But then Surkov manipulated them over to his side. It helped that he controlled their funding and the number of seats they got in the Duma. And then the parties went through this whole drawn out public drama, which had all the trappings of democracy. The bills submitted their arguments for and against it protests around the country. People announced they've changed their minds. There were several votes. And finally, after three months it passes. All of this vacillate says was scripted by circus people. The name you hear for all these techniques is managed democracy. Surkov uses the phrase, sovereign democracy. I suggested to one person I talked to that managed democracy sounds like a contradiction in terms.

17 (52m 27s):
He said exactly. It just means there's no democracy. I don't want to overstate sir power nor has malevolence. Apparently he was much more carrot than stick in his approach and explaining why no, you really want to align yourself with the Kremlin here's what's to be gained. And he didn't try to do this with everybody.

18 (52m 51s):
He maintained under this managed or sovereign democracy, a certain level of descent,

17 (52m 58s):
Some actual opposition, actual

18 (53m 0s):
Opposition, both in society and press and even enjoyed this to sound because it was developing nature leaders like Nevada

17 (53m 11s):
That's Alexei, Navalny. You may have heard of him. He's a high profile activist. He's considered to be the only real opponent to Putin, except he can't run against Putin because Putin's people had him arrested and you can't run for president and Russia. If you have a criminal record

18 (53m 26s):
To be onus, Nevada only emerged within this sandboxes of allow it freedom. That's her cough created. And, and it was important for him because it was kind of making his camouflage of autocracy much better looking.

17 (53m 51s):
The more you hear about Cirque off the man, the more it makes you understand how his whole Truman show, the attrical directing of society developed. He has all of these opposing factions inside of him to all working in an unlikely, but perfect concert together. Back in the early nineties, he was a PR guy designing ads for the richest oligarch in Russia. At that point off said he wanted it to be like, quote the hero in pretty woman. He meant the Richard Gere character, but he's also a huge fan of the anti bureaucracy, gay Buddhist beat poet Allen Ginsberg. This is her cough reciting Ginsburg's poem, sunflower Sutra from memory

19 (54m 30s):
They're standing before me in the sunset and all your glory in your form at perfect beauty of a sunflower.

17 (54m 42s):
You might be able to tell that circus studied theater, but he got kicked out of the Moscow Institute of culture after a fistfight reportedly he's written lyrics for a Russian band called Agatha Christie. And so you marry PR and art and performance. Plus his time at Russia's main state TV network channel one manage democracy was just the natural culmination.

18 (55m 3s):
He was kind of entertaining himself

17 (55m 6s):
Again. Bessie Lee got tough.

18 (55m 7s):
It was really funny for him to, to make this things happen, to achieve certain results and a sort of creative building off reality. Again, as I said, it's, it's a very much big brother type of scripting. He

17 (55m 27s):
Means the reality show, big brother, I'm in

18 (55m 29s):
You. You need to create a conflict and this conflict will create the conflict. And then, and then we just rule it out and people will vote. And that would be fun

17 (55m 39s):
Besides which he could totally get away with it because not only was he good at it, but in circus time is great. Cardinal, not very many people were paying attention at this moment.

18 (55m 50s):
People were absolutely uninterested in politics because Russia had and nature economy growth of about 9% a year. And the ruble was a kind of taking strand for credit was extremely cheap. The country was booming. I mean, it's easy to build a tall Crecy when countries booming, because nobody cares about politics. And I think sort of cough wasn't during this moment, because he was not only kind of a shadow Cardinal, but he actually was openly Cardinal. And the, the situation

17 (56m 27s):
That is after a certain point, he wouldn't take very many pains to hide what he was doing, which I can imagine the feeling here he is carrying off all of these feats of manipulation in secret. You think he'd want a little credit on this point, there was a moment when Surkov seemed to be showing his cards a little bit deliberately. It's a story that Peter Pomerantz have likes to tell. And he's the journalist that I recruited earlier. Peter used to work in reality TV in Russia, and he's written a lot about Surkov

20 (56m 53s):
Liberal blogger, liberal photo blogger. He has a very, very popular blog. Took some photos of the office of circuits.

17 (57m 1s):
Yeah. Yeah. He was there to photograph an official meeting, but he said on his blog that he was much more interested in what was in the office.

20 (57m 8s):
And that's where you have the phones on his desk with the names of all the opposition for

17 (57m 13s):
Like literally there's a whole mess of phones. And on one of them in particular next to the numbers, there's a bank of buttons labeled Marinoff Zhirinovsky. Zyuganov all heads of parties.

20 (57m 24s):
And we have the portrait of two, the photo of Tupac Shakur next to like Machiavelli or something.

17 (57m 29s):
Yes. Tupac's record the wrapper. It's actually next to a picture of Barack Obama.

20 (57m 33s):
And at the time I was like, oh my God, wow. We've got seen sight circles office. And then many years later when everybody realized that circle had been funding, this liberal Glover, everyone's like, oh my God, he leaked that. He wanted us to feel his power, you know?

17 (57m 48s):
And he wanted to create an atmosphere where you can never really tell what's true anymore. So everything is suspect. That was absolutely intentional. Surf himself has come. Just shy of saying it openly. He talks about

20 (57m 60s):
It in his book.

17 (58m 1s):
This is another shape, sir. Cough is reported to have shifted into, he wrote a novel under the pseudonym. Natanz Duba Wicki he won't admit it's really him, but circle his wife is named Natalia Dubovy Skyah. So everyone's like nutty coincidence. The book's called almost a zero or close to zero. It's about a PR guy who grew up in the sticks. Like sir, cough did moved to Moscow to hang out with Bohemian artists like Surkov did, and is now embroiled in the CD murderous underworld of illegal book publishing and distribution. Oh, and it's got an English subtitle, gangsta fiction. In any case, Peter says there are these really telling passages in which the hero realizes, oh wait, everything's made up language politics.

17 (58m 45s):
Every ideology everything's fake. I can see through it all. It's an epic kind of cynicism. It's not citizens.

20 (58m 53s):
Oh, I don't believe in anything, but almost like, oh my God, I've burst through the shallow shells of morality and ideology and

17 (59m 0s):
Belief. It's like, I'm seeing behind the matrix kind of a thing. Yeah,

20 (59m 3s):
Exactly. Very much. The matrix was a super popular film in Russia window, which makes sense. If you think about Russian history, I mean, or this generation like circle or like boots and they've lived through communism, they've lived through the mafia state. They moved through fake democracy through a sort of religious, national socialism own empire building, which they have now. And it's all the same people. And they've gone through, through so many different modes of being in the last 30 years in such a blistering progression that they're kind of left with the feeling that everything is a mass grade. So when Surkov says everything is everything's controlled in a construct, what he's actually saying is not a confession.

20 (59m 45s):
It's a piece of psychological propaganda to say, so there's no point struggling for anything. Don't even try to do any of your silly, you know, protest movements. Oh. So in a way you're killing. If you tell people that everything is a conspiracy, it doesn't lead people to revolt. It leads people to go, well, then I might as well give up. Yes. But again, we might be over-interpreting here, but it's a book. So we're allowed to,

17 (1h 0m 14s):
Like I said before, surf is no longer the grand manager of propaganda in Russia. He was sidelined in 2011 after a dispute with Putin, but he stayed a personal advisor to the president. And he was also an organizer of Russia's takeover of the Crimean peninsula in Ukraine in 2014, his involvement in that annexation got him sanctioned by the west and he's not allowed to travel to the U S or Europe anymore. And he can't have assets in the west either. Surkov was unfazed. The only things that interest me in the U S he said are Tupac Shakur, Alan Ginsburg and Jackson Pollock. I don't need a visa to access their work, which, you know, good comeback

0 (1h 0m 60s):
Junko. It's one of the producers of our show circuit, by the way, it seems to have been one of the people overseeing Russia's Ukraine policy until a few years ago. There's some hacked emails from his account in 2014 when pro Moscow's separatist groups and Ukraine declared the two territories and the Russian border were no longer part of Ukraine and emails Surkov seems to be managing them. One of the emails Surkov received a list of potential leaders for these supposedly independent regions of Ukraine with Asteris by certain names as the best options. And he's asked him one email to edit a statement that allegedly came from Ukrainians, living in the separatist held territories in 2020 circle was fired by vitamin curtain without any public explanation on headline about that red Putin fires his puppet master At for a matter of principle.

0 (1h 1m 58s):
Let's talk about the people in Russia, who don't like vitamin or Putin. They've been protest against the invasion of Ukraine across Russia and Moscow St. Petersburg, other cities. I agree with the monitors, the protests OVD info said that it just the first two days since the invasion over 1800 protesters were arrested in 60 Russian cities. But in 2017, when we first broadcast today's program, there were all over the country organized by Putin's most prominent critic, the charismatic opposition leader, Alexi Nevani about government corruption. And the years since 2017 Navantia was poisoned, fled to Berlin for treatment. German authorities said the nerve agent, the poisoned, it must have come from the Russian government when he returned to Russia, he was arrested he's in prison today.

0 (1h 2m 41s):
But in 2017, he was turning out huge crowds of young people who showed up because of these great videos that he'd do online about the issues. After the protests, teenagers started posting their own videos to the internet or their teachers lecturing them about the protests, telling them they were wrong about the issues and kids arguing back,

21 (1h 3m 0s):
You know, you were called in for a lecture by your principal. You think that very idea of your principal lecturing you on the subject of protest is either unjust or absurd or funny or whatever. And so you film it and post it just like, I think, you know, a lot of 16, 17 year olds might be tempted to do anywhere.

0 (1h 3m 18s):
Joshua Yaffa is a correspondent for the new Yorker magazine in Moscow. And he wrote about one of these videos that was filmed in the provincial town of Brianca 200 miles from Moscow. Apparently there was a student there who tried to enlist other kids to go to the protests, which led to their principal and homeroom teacher to talk to them, which they filmed.

21 (1h 3m 36s):
It's it's obvious that it was film surreptitiously. You see a lot of the desk in front of you and kind of half cut off shots of the school principal in front of a chalkboard.

0 (1h 3m 46s):
Okay. And I should say that most of it is just completely black. You see nothing and you hear a sound and, and then occasionally the camera sort of bops up.

21 (1h 3m 60s):
She's essentially saying with a tone in her voice, suggest to you kind of naive juvenile, somewhat immature in the ways of the world, students are interested in the sky Navalny, what does he really stand for? What does he really offering or suggesting other than just getting rid of the country's leaders? The principal says, guys, I can see that you're looking at this problem one sidedly and that you lack range in your political view. You've seen the volley, you watched this video and boom, you believe it all.

0 (1h 4m 33s):
When you wrote about this, a recording in the new Yorker, you described her tone is hectoring and frustrated.

21 (1h 4m 38s):
I would say that's really the most interesting or striking thing about the whole video to me, which is, to me, it sounds like Kara puts it off. Another principle is experiencing something between confusion, exasperate, exasperation, anger. I think she's really at a loss. She doesn't understand them maybe in the same way that I don't know, five years ago, seven years ago, there was something more shared between her and her students.

0 (1h 5m 6s):
At one point you started defending vitamin Putin saying you can't blame him for the bad economy. That's because of the sanctions that the European union in the United States and post on Russia. And she says on the world stage in foreign policy is doing a great with the students, challenge

21 (1h 5m 23s):
The students, asking the principal. Okay. So what is our foreign policy? America is against us. Europe is against us. And the principal says, okay, well, why is that? What's the reason. And the student without thinking says, well, that's because of Crimea. We took it And the principal responding with some surprise or indignation says, well, so was that bad?

0 (1h 5m 47s):
Because the most of Russia it's seen as like a patriotic thing to have taken Crimea.

21 (1h 5m 51s):
Yeah. But the, the annexation of Crimea is incredibly popular. It's widely perceived to have been a good thing, basically.

0 (1h 5m 58s):
And then the homeroom teacher jumps in and argues with the kids over Crimea teacher says, did we really take Crimea? Did they vote and choose to become part of Russia? The kids correctly point out, yes. Russia did take Crimea and the sanctions were the result. So when the conversation turns to the fighting in Eastern Ukraine, Russia officially denies that its soldiers are there, but all kinds of evidence has come out, proving that this is,

21 (1h 6m 23s):
And the principle is essentially trying to blame the crisis in Ukraine, on America.

0 (1h 6m 31s):
Exactly what she says. Cause, cause, cause it's so, cause it's so aggressive. She says, kid, you haven't read anything about this and you don't know a thing. You've got some very superficial knowledge here. What started this whole complex? Maybe it was because America stuck its nose in and then they start to argue,

21 (1h 6m 53s):
Right? And the student asks somewhat mockingly of the principal. Did you see American troops in Ukraine? We

23 (1h 6m 59s):
Visited. It was Scott unlimited.

21 (1h 7m 1s):
And the principal says, did you see Russian troops in Ukraine? And this is this moment where the student reveals just this like basic elementary kind of non-ideological factual knowledge. And a student says, yes,

23 (1h 7m 16s):
No,

21 (1h 7m 18s):
There are videos going around and then comes really maybe my favorite line. You have no idea. And that, to me, it gets to the key point of this whole dialogue, which is the kids just have access to this information. And just a worldview that they're gotten on the internet themselves information. That's not on state TV. And, and that alone seems kind of somewhat destabilizing or uncomfortable for them.

0 (1h 7m 44s):
The kids don't watch TV the way older Russians do, the principal tells them, okay, you don't remember how bad it was here before Putin. The country was in chaos. People had to carry guns and knives. And this is when I was in college when she says this. And when she parrots talking points that you might hear on Russian state TV, she seems totally sincere as American watching this. It's one of the things that's actually most interesting about this video. You think that these government talking points on Crimea or Ukraine or whatever you wonder if authorities are just mouthing these points and they don't actually believe them when you're the principal, she seems totally emotional when she runs through these talking points.

21 (1h 8m 22s):
Those talking points are in a way emotional couched in the language of patriotism and appeal to a history Russia as a great power Russia as this besieged fortress, surrounded by enemies, who we should harm. And the students just seem less receptive to those messages.

0 (1h 8m 39s):
At one point, the kids openly laugh at the country's ruling political party, prison Putin's party, United Russia, We're against United Russia. The kids saying the student asked everybody to raise their hands who was against United Russia. And then you get the sense. This part is dark in the video. You get the sense that lots of hands are going up.

23 (1h 9m 6s):
No,

0 (1h 9m 7s):
This is one of the things that's interesting to me about this because I feel like we read about how the Russian government sort of floods the zone in their own country with all kinds of misinformation and disinformation to make people feel that Putin is doing a great job. And, and here it seems like you have like a bunch of kids who just seem utterly immune to it.

21 (1h 9m 26s):
Yeah. And that I think must freak out the political advisors and political technologists as they're called here in Russia, in the Kremlin who just seemed to have lost the country's youth. They just don't seem to be able to come up with the kind of messages and, and rhetoric that you know, for an older generation worked so easily and naturally, and it flowed with so little resistance,

0 (1h 9m 57s):
Joshua Yaffa of the new Yorker magazine in Moscow

24 (1h 10m 17s):
That's missile down Russia. Russia must you always frown now Russia, Russia, lay that missile down. <em></em>

0 (1h 10m 46s):
Oh, the original version of today's program back in 2017 was produced by Jonathan and <em></em> are updated. The program today is produced by Chris bender of a Dave Kestenbaum, helping my commentator, Katherine Raymondo and Michelle Navarro stone Nelson and Matt Tierney, especially thanks to data. It's a Sapa pushed out. Dan Charles Christopher Miller, Tonya Walcott, make the go above ski. John Earl, Robin Hessman max poster. Rafkin Matthew cool. Cuff Andrew Wilson, Arcadia Stravinsky, Christopher Chivas, radio free Europe, radio Liberty, John Dunlop, URI felt Sinsky Andre. Necros off Anastasia and it's Chenko Ramsey. A Polizzi Nellie NYSCI, Pulver Nicole slogan and Alexa . I translation of the Russian student video was done by the website, global voices, our website, this American life.org.

0 (1h 11m 29s):
This American life is a little bit of public radio stations by PRX, the public radio exchange. And there's always real programs. Co-founder Ms. Kramer, TIAA, obviously like so many public figures. People ask him all the time. Did he ever meet with Russian officials during the transition to Donald Trump's presidency?

16 (1h 11m 45s):
Nip, nip, nip nip more

0 (1h 11m 50s):
I'm Eric. I ask back next week. So the more stories of this American life <em></em> next week on the podcast of this American life, we replay one of the most popular stories that we've ever put on the air about a brother and sister who want to escape a fantastically over-protective mom. And to do that, they invent an entire family. They're my queries. Do they say they're babysitting for the mom? Didn't get suspicious.

25 (1h 12m 23s):
She said, I just got off the phone was Mrs. McCreary. She hasn't seen

0 (1h 12m 29s):
Next week on the podcast or on your local public radio station.