Saks.com (0s):
Sax.com editors are always tracking the top styles that are trending right now. Tailored blazers and mid dresses are selling out@sax.com, especially from brands like Veronica Beard and the row and sax.com. Editors are seeing the web's oversized tote on the streets of New York, Milan, and Paris. If you want your own free personalized trend, recommendations sax.com. Stylists can do that and more. Plus, there's free shipping and returns all the time@sax.com.

1 (31s):
Wining describes what it was like to grow up in a town in the Goby Desert. Just first, the simple physical hardship of it. Harsh winters. Some are so hot, the asphalt on the road would mount and get on her weight school uniform. She says this is China. In the 1970s, her town wan had a big factory that made products outta metal and steel. There were some really poor farms. Eben's dad had a job that was better than most. Eben says they led the musicians for the local song and dance ensemble making shows for the government, basically, you know, propaganda that were tour to smaller towns. When she turned four and a half, her dad told her, you're gonna want to play an instrument.

1 (1m 11s):
And she started on the violin. It wasn't until she got older that he explained why

2 (1m 17s):
He doesn't want me to have a job that's has to be under the sun in the factory with my hands with heavy labor.

1 (1m 27s):
And then would your dad tell you, you have to do this because this is your future? Yes, he would.

2 (1m 33s):
He would.

1 (1m 33s):
What would he say?

2 (1m 36s):
I remember one time he took me to the market, the people selling like garments on the street. It was really hot. And he says, look, if you don't practice, you're gonna work here. Did you say that girl, she was trying to help her dad to sell a pair of pants. Do you want to be here?

1 (1m 59s):
Hmm.

2 (1m 60s):
I thought, oh, so hot. I can't stay there.

1 (2m 3s):
And did that motivate you? Would you think about that and it would keep you practicing? No, she was a kid. She hated practicing. And her dad had her doing like two hours a day, four or five hours on days. There wasn't school. Sometimes while she practiced, she'd put rubber bands around the chair legs and do Chinese jump rope. Other times

2 (2m 24s):
I was just playing the comic books. I put on a music stand.

1 (2m 28s):
You were playing the comic books?

2 (2m 30s):
What do you mean? No, I was flipping comic books. I was just playing. And I flip the comic book on the music stand, and I set the alarm maybe a half an hour before mom comes home and squeeze my skin to make it red. Very red. So when she comes here, I say, look, I practice in two hours.

1 (2m 49s):
You mean squeeze the skin on your neck? So you're wearing the violin

2 (2m 52s):
Rests. What's the red? I said,

1 (2m 54s):
Yeah, fortunately she had a good ear, natural skull. And her dad, dad, she says, was a patient and kind teacher. But to turn her into a musician, she and her dad faced some pretty daunting and extraordinary challenges. All this was happening during a very particular moment in China during the cultural revolution. Starting in the 1960s, Western classical music was banned in the country, couldn't be performed or played on the radio. Violins and pianos were smashed or burned. Her dad, who loved western classical music, would stay up late at night to hear it on Russian radio stations. He knew he beam wouldn't be allowed to play this kind of music in public. Violins were permitted in China if you were playing revolutionary music.

1 (3m 36s):
But from the beginning, to send her down this road of becoming a position, he had to be incredibly resourceful. He just had to jump into battle just to get her violins to play. He found one in a school warehouse in a nearby town where old instruments were locked up. Another, he secretly saved from a fire where he is gonna be burned. And then he had his next obstacle. If it's so hard to get a violin in, where do you get the music?

2 (4m 1s):
He hand copied the music he borrowed from his friends in his organization. They're violinists. They're all some sort of self-taught.

1 (4m 10s):
They these books of etudes for beginners that they'd hand copied from someone else who'd hand copied them from someone else. Each book, 80 or 90 pages long. Neighbors hearing this stuff didn't recognize it as western music just sounded like exercises.

2 (4m 24s):
Yeah, he borrowed from everybody. Do you have a book? Five? Do you have book four? He was just spending time at night. Just hand copy.

1 (4m 33s):
Your father would?

2 (4m 34s):
Yeah, I saw him copying. I was fascinated. He would cut the pen diagonal and then he put the ink. Ink and the, the, the, the, the, the thick edge, if you put it down would be already a note

1 (4m 47s):
Because it would make a black dot. Yeah,

2 (4m 49s):
You just go like that. He said, look, this is very fast. This is flat, this sharp. And quickly, if you go quick, the the, the lines are very straight. You can't be slow. You can't shake your hand.

1 (5m 8s):
Then in 1977, being seven years old, she get up from school and her dad is all excited.

2 (5m 14s):
He says, come, come. I have something to tell you. I thought I was in trouble. He says, no, no, no. I work in the audition for sharing conservatory.

1 (5m 24s):
A year after Chairman MA's death, China's music conservatories were open again and holding auditions, suddenly playing the byline could open up a whole world to ebeam a world far from their town in the Gobi.

2 (5m 36s):
He says, if you get ing, that would be great. You have your future.

1 (5m 41s):
Did he want you to get out of the Goby desert area though? Yes. So is his goal, you'll play the violin and then you'll end up, you know, in some big city somewhere.

2 (5m 51s):
Yes. Then I'm on my way in a big city. It's class up.

1 (5m 58s):
If she ACEs this audition, she'll be in Shean, one of the largest cities in the country. It could get her into a big city orchestra or get her into university, which would be nearly impossible otherwise coming from where she came from. And so this became their single-minded goal. And I'm telling you this story because this is this American life from WBZ Chicago. And our whole show today is about people who set out on some path and they're ripped off that path by bad luck, by fate, by mistakes they made that they didn't even know they were making. And then they have to fight and call their way back. The biggest thing to throw ebi, of course, is still to come. And it's one where her father is really left with no options. Maria has to try and invent something out of absolutely nothing to fix things and get back on chorus.

1 (6m 43s):
Stay with us. Okay. So evening's dad tells her about these auditions when she's seven years old, but the conservatory in Xen, it's a middle school. And so she can't actually audition until she's old enough for middle school. That day finally comes, she's 11 and a half years old. It's 1981 when she finally gets her chance to grab at this special future that her dad has been preparing her for, for years. Though, before they can do that, they have one rather serious obstacle to overcome. First, they don't have enough money for train tickets to get to Sheen for the audition or for hotel.

1 (7m 22s):
So dad gets relatives to donate some money. He sells off stuff from their house. And there was some money from when his dad died that had never been distributed. Getting some of that money led to a squabble with his older brother lasted for years. But at the end of all that money in hand, when spring day and her dad headed off on the train, the ride took 36 hours a trip unlike anything she'd ever taken in her life. First time leaving her part of China, first time visiting a big city. And what does she remember? The things she brings up right off the bat when we talk about it,

2 (7m 58s):
I was very excited because my dad would give me steamed cake. Each bag has 12 was very brown.

1 (8m 8s):
What is steamed cake? I don't know what that is.

2 (8m 10s):
Steamed cake. Basically made of egg and the flour, sugar. And they're very fluffy and has the smell of eggs.

1 (8m 19s):
And you never had this back home?

2 (8m 22s):
I saw it in the store, but we don't buy very often. But there, that's all for me. Each morning breakfast I get into.

1 (8m 33s):
And then you had never been away from the Gobi Desert, right? No. So what was it like? Like what were your impressions of of the city?

2 (8m 42s):
My God, by the last, I think last six hours, we entered the Xen. Everything was green. And we opened the window, the air was moist. Remember what our heads were sticking out of window. I said, wow, can you breathe this? And the, the, the, the mountain hills were all covered with green. We were both thinking, wow, so many trees

1 (9m 7s):
In the train station, they were selling fresh fruits. She'd never seen pomegranate persimmon.

2 (9m 12s):
And we stayed in the hotel and they were been to a hotel. And then I got very excited. I thought, this is a great life if I live here.

1 (9m 23s):
The hotel was close to the conservatory and noisy, she says, with the sounds of kids instruments filled with parents and kids who were also auditioning, she and her dad started to get nervous.

2 (9m 32s):
And then he went to our neighbor next door and the girl from just bigger town next to Shean. But her father played in the orchestra.

1 (9m 44s):
I

2 (9m 44s):
See. And she had nice clothes and her father knows all the repertoire. And then they had a book,

1 (9m 50s):
Like a printed

2 (9m 51s):
Book. Printed book. And the first time my dad says, can I see your book? And he, he took the book. I said, oh, I have never seen in the

1 (10m 4s):
Book. He had never seen printed music in a book. Yeah.

2 (10m 7s):
Western composer's book.

1 (10m 10s):
That music had been banned. He seen books of Chinese music, which uses a different notation. EB made it through the first round of auditions and the second round after that, not many kids were left in the hotel.

2 (10m 27s):
The hotel was very quiet. I remember at the breakfast,

1 (10m 31s):
15 violinists were left. Ebe was the very last one to play for the judges.

2 (10m 36s):
I remember I walked into the room with big room. There were six people on the panel. I was very confident because I get to play with the pianist, the conservatory provided. I remember I really enjoyed having the piano to play. I thought, wow, listen to that sound. Hmm. I sounded so good with piano

1 (10m 60s):
Because you'd never heard yourself do that.

2 (11m 2s):
No, I never played with pianist. I were very confident. I thought the concerto was so well prepared. I also like the concerto because has a melody. There is a technical part you can show off.

1 (11m 25s):
This is being basically site reading for me. The concerto that you played that day by JB Accolade. She's also played the other solo violin pieces you've heard in the story. Anyway, so at the audition she's playing, feeling great, barely a page in,

2 (11m 40s):
Someone in the panel clapped their hand says, okay, that's it. Thank you. You can go. I was shocked because the best part I haven't reached there yet. I look at, at them, I saw them talking. One teacher, remember he had, he had a double chin. He was shaking his head. I saw the chin was moving and, and I heard that. He said, no, no, no, it's just impossible. We don't need to hear more.

1 (12m 11s):
And then what?

2 (12m 13s):
I walked out the room, I remember I was terrified. I thought my dad's dream, it's over.

1 (12m 21s):
She says, she also thought, I'm 11 and a half, no more green city, no more hotel, no more excitement. Her dad was waiting for her in the hallway.

2 (12m 29s):
He was like, so how did it go? I said, dad, I, I think, I think I did very bad. They asked me to leave. He says, but maybe you are good enough. They don't need to hear more. I said, no, no, no. One man was shaking his head. He says, no, it's not possible. My dad was, so he, he held his fist hammering on the, the edge of the window. The, the, the, the sound was behind him. He says, gotta be away, gotta be away in Chinese. He says, <unk> What's the solution?

2 (13m 10s):
What's the solution now? Hmm. God be away. I look at him, I felt terrified. I thought I disappointed him. He said, have to find a way. You wait here. He said, I said, don't go.

1 (13m 30s):
Are you trying to talk him out of whatever this is?

2 (13m 32s):
Because I was embarrassed. I don't wanna be more embarrassed. People tell him how terrible I was. Yeah. I said, I, I I really didn't do well. It's my fault. I'm very, very sorry. He said, did you make a mistake? I said, I don't know. He said, just wait. Here,

1 (13m 49s):
Let me just remind you. Most people you fail your audition, it's over. Not her dad. He went to the classroom where the auditions were and outside the room, a college student was packing up papers cuz you know, a bean was the last audition. She follows violin in hand.

2 (14m 6s):
I heard my daddy says, could she play again if she was so terrible? Can you talk to them? The guy says, no, I don't think so. It's over. And my dad says, but what happened? Can you find out? The guy says, I can't go in to talk. I'm a student. I only work here. Then my dad said, you know, we took train 36 hours. You know where I'm from. The guy didn't answer. He says, I'm from, the guy says, oh, you know, my uncle lived to town next nearby. I know wan. My dad says, so, you know, you know how hard it is this.

2 (14m 48s):
And I think the guy, young guy had a little soft spot for that.

1 (14m 54s):
Her dad says, can you just ask them to give her another chance? At least got reported. At the end of the concerto. The guy says, I don't think I can do that, but I have to turn in these papers. I'll find out what happened with her.

2 (15m 8s):
So we waited outside. I don't know how long. I just thought it was so hopeless. Why? My dad is embarrassing me. The guy came out, told my dad, they told me that she has a good posture, she has a good intonation, but she played many wrongs. That's not acceptable. My dad says, what do you mean wrong notes? I'm a musician. I correct every notes. I played with her practice with her. I know every note. The guy says, but maybe you don't read music. Well, maybe you were wrong. He said, wait, I can show you the score. Every note is correct.

2 (15m 50s):
So he run back to his back, took the music. The cop handcuffed sheet music came over, was basically back and says, please, please, you know, I can't go back home like this. This is my only chance. Our only chance.

1 (16m 10s):
He says this to him, it's our only hope.

2 (16m 11s):
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. You, you are lucky. You are studying the conservatory. But do you know how many people are studying the con conservatory from our hometown? None. Violinists, none. Please just help me.

1 (16m 28s):
Your dad hands the student the score. And he looks at it.

2 (16m 32s):
He was surprised. He saw the score was all hand copied. He says, did you copy this? Who's, who wrote this? He says, me, but who you copied from? He says, my friend. But where the score came from. He said, I don't know.

1 (16m 51s):
The student says, wait a minute. He goes back into the audition room. This time he is gone for longer.

2 (16m 56s):
I remember my dad was not looking at me. He would just like swallow. And then this time, one violin teacher came out, was not the one with double chin. So he says, come over here. Did you play from this copy? I say, yes. And he asked my dad, that's your hand copy. My dad said, yes. You know there are many wrong notes, right? My dad says, no, I, I don't know. I copied right. I correct. Many checked many times.

2 (17m 37s):
I don't think it's wrong. The teacher said, but she played many wrong notes. It's from the score. This is the wrong key. There's no f sharp, but here are missing a flat. And there's, there are many mistakes. My dad says, but that's all we had. My dad says, can you let her play finish if she didn't play well? He says, no, no, no. It's not about that. There's no second chance. We don't give a second chance. There's no second audition. It's not fair to other people.

5 (18m 11s):
Hmm.

2 (18m 13s):
My dad was so hopeless. He says, okay, I will talk to my colleague. My dad says, will you give her a chance? He says, no, don't ask question like that. I'm not gonna say anything. Daddy says, but how many you will keep out of 15? He says, nine,

1 (18m 34s):
Six will get, and he says, and then three backups.

2 (18m 37s):
That's all I can say. Now you, you have to go.

1 (18m 43s):
What happened? Then

2 (18m 44s):
We went back home. There was two weeks of wait.

1 (18m 47s):
Did you think you had any chance at all?

2 (18m 50s):
I was completely hopeless. One day he got a telegraph from the post office.

1 (18m 55s):
Telegram. Yeah.

2 (18m 56s):
Oh, third telegram. One sentence. I Lee is selected. Congratulations. He had a telegram in his hand. He read many, many times. Read to my mom, read to me. He was shaking. He says, I can. Unbelievable.

1 (19m 22s):
He couldn't help himself. Had to reach out to the school, read a letter to the admissions office, thanking them, saying how grateful Norm enjoyed the word.

2 (19m 29s):
And he asked, how come you picked her? The guy worked in the admissions was a very nice man. He was about retiring for some reason. He took a moment, wrote a letter to my dad, says, I had a sympathy. I heard your story. We were shocked about hand carpeted each note. And I'm very touched by the way she got in because three other kids did not pass Chinese and math exams. She's on the bottom, but she's in congratulations.

1 (20m 8s):
In other words, she was on the weight west, number nine of nine kids. Then three kids didn't have the academic qualifications to through the school. So she

2 (20m 16s):
Got it. That's how I got it right. I was lucky.

1 (20m 20s):
I mean, it's interesting. Your dad like puts you on a path starting when you're like 11 and a half and everything is going perfectly and you're at the audition and then everything gets thrown off course, right? And then your dad just fights and fights and fights, grabs at any straw and he just wills you back on course. Have you thought about that moment? Very much in the years since.

2 (20m 44s):
I always think my dad made me without him, I, I wouldn't be, I wouldn't be me. I don't know what the other life could be. I don't know. But I love what I have. I'm in, I'm so lucky doing what I love to do. It's all because of my father

1 (21m 7s):
From the conservatory in Shean. She graduated and went to an even better conservatory for college in Shanghai. She graduated there, joined the faculty there, came to America, studied at Julliard, now was in New York. When she first came to America, her father cried on the bus to the airport thinking he'd never see her again. The way he saw it, she was in a dream job in Shanghai, why would she ever leave it? But then her parents moved here in 2016. Her dad died three years ago today e being performs and records and teaches. And as a 16 year old daughter, Veron, have you had moments with your daughter where you felt like, okay, you need to jump in the way your dad did with you to save the day to make her future?

1 (21m 56s):
No, no,

2 (21m 57s):
No.

1 (21m 58s):
Why?

2 (21m 60s):
She grew up in New York City. She can have any cake she wants.

1 (22m 16s):
Her daughter plays the violin. What if she wants? She can sign up for flute. If that doesn't work out, she can do martial arts. If that's not right for her, she can try something else. Whatever she wants, that's the life you being wants for her one where everything doesn't ride on a single audition, make or break your whole future with six strangers in a room on some random spring morning and your dad there to protect you. Coming up a 17 year old girl starts swimming into the open ocean and ends up somewhere so different from what you'd planned on.

1 (22m 59s):
That's in a minute. From Chicago Public Radio. When a program continues,

TIAA (23m 4s):
Support for this American life comes from T I A A. We all want to retire at some point and T I A A offers a great way to ensure that your paydays don't end if you decide to stop working. T I A A has retirement savings products that offer two guarantees. Your investments grow while you save, no matter the market, and you'll receive guaranteed lifetime income. Let T I A A help you prepare for retirement, grow your savings, guarantee your interest, get lifetime income. Learn more@tia.org. Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association, New York. New York issues, lifetime annuities guarantees are based upon TIAA's claims pain ability

Indeed (23m 39s):
Support for this American Life comes from. Indeed, indeed is the hiring platform where you can attract, interview and hire all in one place. Don't spend hours on multiple job sites looking for candidates with the right skills when you can do it all with indeed. Find top talent fast, with indeed suite of powerful hiring tools like matching assessments and virtual interviews. And now with Indeed, you only pay for quality applications that meet your hiring criteria. Visit indeed.com/american to start hiring now. That's indeed.com/american terms and conditions apply. Cost per application pricing not available for everyone need to hire. You need indeed

1 (24m 18s):
This American Life me Glass, today's program off course stories of people and as you'll hear it, not just people who get thrown off the very clear course that their lives were on and then have to invent what they're gonna do next. Today's show is a rerun. We've arrived at act two of our program, act two synchronized swimmers. So in the ocean, when you get off course, there are all kinds of dangers that you face that just are not there when you're on dry land. Phoebe Judge as a story where you see some of that. She's the hosted that This is Love podcast. We're a version of this story. First round,

7 (24m 52s):
When Lynn Cox was a teenager, she was a competitive long distance ocean swimmer. Six days a week she'd wake up early to swim at a beach near her house in southern California. Typically she'd swim back and forth in the deep water between a really long pier and a stone jetty. She was training for a 21 mile swim.

8 (25m 11s):
It was March and I was 17 years old and I was going for a morning swim. It was before the sun had risen and the water was pitch black. I started swimming between the seal, beach pier and the jetty. And so my plan was just to go in and, and stretch out and swim for an hour and be done and then go hang out with my high school friends. But I started swimming and as I got closer to the pier, I felt the water hollowing out around me, meaning I could feel something underneath pulling me forward, felt like something really big was swimming below. And so in my mind I'm thinking, oh my gosh, is it a seal?

8 (25m 55s):
And I'm like, no, it's too big for a seal. It's like, okay, is it a dolphin? No, it's not a dolphin. And then I thought, oh my God, could it be a shark? What is this below me?

7 (26m 8s):
I mean, this is most people's biggest nightmare on earth. That they would be swimming in the water and that they would feel something large underneath them.

8 (26m 17s):
Yeah, I think that's normal to be scared. I mean when you can't see anything below, but you can feel something and you can also not just feel the motion but the presence of something. But you know, when you do these long swims, you have to keep your mind under control because you, if you freak out, then you're out of a swim. So I kept talking to myself and saying, okay, you're not sure what it is, just move closer to shore. So I, I swam closer to shore, but this thing kept swimming around near me. The water kept getting hollowed out and I realized that whatever was there was still there and it had not gone away. And I was just ready to turn and race out of the water.

8 (26m 59s):
But there was an old man named Steve who worked in the bait shop on the pier. And he sort of watched over me and watched what was going on with the water. And I could see him standing under a light on the pier waving toward me to come to swim out to him. And he yelled at me and said, Lynn, come here. You know there's a baby whale swimming with you. Do

7 (27m 23s):
So you stick your head out of the water. And he's waving and he, and he says, there's a baby whale.

8 (27m 28s):
Yeah, he said, A baby whale. And I'm like, really? I have never seen a baby whale in the wild before. So he told me that, you know, the baby whale had lost his mother and I needed to stay with the baby whale.

7 (27m 44s):
Why did you need to stay with the baby whale? Why couldn't you get out?

8 (27m 47s):
He was afraid that if I turned to go to shore, that the baby whale would follow me and possibly could run a ground. But he also thought that, you know, maybe the baby whale will just swim off and be totally lost. So his idea was that, you know, you just need to stay with the baby whale.

7 (28m 4s):
It can be dangerous for baby whales to be separated from their mothers. There are predators around like sharks and also young whales are totally dependent on their mother's milk to survive a while back, there's a story about a baby whale getting so lost. It tried to suckle on a yacht.

8 (28m 21s):
That sense of being lost was something I related to with a baby whale.

7 (28m 26s):
Is it, is it easy as a swimmer to get off course?

8 (28m 29s):
Yeah. And I think the thing that most people don't know about, when you're in the ocean, if you get lost and you try to continue going, you start swimming in a huge circle. And that makes it more difficult for anyone to find you. And so the mother may not find the baby ever.

7 (28m 49s):
At this point, Lynn still couldn't see the baby whale beneath her in the water. She only saw bits and pieces of it swimming.

8 (28m 56s):
You could only see part of him. I mean, you couldn't see his whole head or face. You just saw the, the his back. And the baby gray whale then surfaced and he swam over toward me. It was scary. It was scary cuz he was so big and I was not sure how to deal with him. I mean, you know, how do I interact with a, a whale? Steve though was so calm and and assured that it was just fine to be in the water with a baby. That I thought, well, he knows he's this old guy that's been out here forever.

8 (29m 36s):
And so he knows everything about the ocean. So I will do what he told me to do. I said, I'll just just stay out here with his whale until we find his mother.

7 (29m 46s):
Steve got on the radio to all the fishing boat captains and lifeguards along the coast and told them to keep their eyes out for a large gray whale traveling north. He told Lynn to swim back towards the jetty. Once she got to the jetty, she turned around and swam back to the pier again. The baby stayed with her.

8 (30m 5s):
We were sort of side by side or he was right underneath me or very, very close. And at one point he just rolled over and looked right at me and it was just the most amazing thing in the world because I felt like he sees me and I see him and we're together.

7 (30m 28s):
How big is a baby? Gray whale's eye.

8 (30m 32s):
It was sort of the size, I'd say of a plum or a orange. It's, it's large and it was dark, dark, dark brown, almost black.

7 (30m 46s):
Did you try to talk to him? Were you talking to him?

8 (30m 50s):
Yes, yes, yes. I mean, I was like, as if he would understand, but you know, I told him he'd be okay and that things, things will work out and we'll find his mother. And I'm thinking, oh my gosh, he can't understand my words, but maybe he will understand the feeling or the intention.

7 (31m 10s):
They swam for an hour. Then another hour. Lynn started to wonder if it was even possible for the mother to find the baby. How do you find something in the ocean? She got scared that the mother might never be coming. She got scared that the mother could be dead. Maybe the mother was dead. Some people had gathered on the pier with Steve to watch what was going on. And the fishermen out in boats were all talking to each other on the radio. One of them reported seeing a large gray whale swimming near an oil rig about a mile and a half offshore. And then as though the baby whale was listening to the radio, it abruptly turned and started swimming in the direction of the oil rig.

7 (31m 50s):
Normally Lynn wouldn't swim out into the open ocean without a boat or somebody near her, but she decided to follow,

8 (31m 56s):
He made a point of swimming right in front of me and a little bit below so I could swim in a slip stream. And I thought, wow, I bet he learned that from his mother. I bet when they were migrating north, he was in her slipstream and enabled and enabled him to swim. Much easier than, than against the strong currents. And it was just so cool. I mean, because I was hardly moving at all my arms and I was just flying through the water and I just thought, wow, you know, can he, I can, you know, I, at times I try to think about how does he see me and he must have thought horrible swimmer. She is, you know, he just, he's just so beautiful, elegant, graceful in the water and just move so effortlessly, you know, just one big kick of his, of his fin, his tail fin his fluke.

8 (32m 49s):
And he would just move. And here I was like struggling with my arms. It was just, he probably thought I needed help.

7 (33m 4s):
By this time Lynn had been in the water with the whale for almost four hours as strong a swimmer as Lynn was. She didn't know how much longer she could be in that cold water. They swam towards the oil rig for a while, but didn't see the other whale. And Lynn realized she'd have to make a decision soon.

8 (33m 22s):
You know, I was used to swimming very long distances. But you know, there are points along the way where I was getting tired and cold because, you know, I was not swimming at my normal speed. I was treading water. I was wondering where the whale was going cuz he was suddenly diving down deep into the water. And I think it was about a four and a half hours or five hours into this time out there in the water. I was getting really cold and I realized that I was putting myself in danger. Now, you know, that I could go into hypothermia and if I got hypothermia, then it could become really disoriented and I could also pass out in the water. You know, it was five hours of swing around and not really going anywhere.

8 (34m 2s):
So I decided that I really needed to start getting back toward the pier.

7 (34m 7s):
She turned around and swam back toward the pier. The whale stayed with her. Then Lynn saw Long beach lifeguard boat coming towards her at full speed. And when it reached her, a lifeguard told her she was out too far. Then he told her something else. A commercial fishing boat had spotted a solo whale only a half mile from the pier where Lynn usually swam. And that the whale was now swimming in their direction.

8 (34m 32s):
Kept thinking, oh my God, please let him somehow hear her. Hopefully she's making some kind of noise so that he can understand that she's approaching her. Maybe he's doing something that she's hearing, you know, the cry of the baby to come and find him,

7 (34m 51s):
Even though this is what she'd been hoping for. Lynn didn't quite know what to do. Full-size gray whales can be 50 feet long and weigh 90,000 pounds. Oh, I would've gotten so, I would've been ha I would've gotten So were you get, did you get nervous about this mother coming?

8 (35m 6s):
I was really nervous. Cuz again, it was like, do I stay in the water? Do I get out of the water? Do I stay with the baby? What do I do? And so I thought, well, my intention all along has been good. And, and the baby recognizes that. And so hopefully they're communicating and she will understand that, you know, this has been a good thing.

7 (35m 27s):
And what happened

8 (35m 30s):
When she actually swam over to us, she came over very, very slowly and didn't come really close to me initially, but a few minutes later, she came right next to me. And you know, when a, when a mother whale comes next to you, it's like a bus pulling up beside you. And I backed away some because I was afraid. I mean, the animal's 40 feet long, 45 feet long. And to be in the water with something so huge is frightening. I mean, cuz just one push over a fin or anything, I could be hurt.

8 (36m 15s):
So I tried to tell myself, just be calm. Just, just float on the water and, and if she doesn't want you around, you will know that very quickly. So I saw them together and it was one of the most beautiful things I've ever seen in my life. To see the mother and baby reunited. I mean, for five hours we'd been out there swimming together and she came over, she approached me. And so she was so close that I thought, I'm going to touch her. I'm just going to do it because, because I feel like a part of this whole thing.

8 (36m 56s):
And I touched her and I could feel that she felt my hand on her. And it was amazing, you know, cuz she was so big and, you know, and then a few minutes later, they swam off.

7 (37m 23s):
While Lynn swam back to the shore, the lifeguard made sure that the cargo ships around Los Angeles harbor knew where the mother and baby were. Swimming later boats reported seeing the two join a group of whales on their way north. When she got back to the beach, Lynn asked a lifeguard if she could use the phone to call her parents to let them know that her workout had gone longer than she expected when she was on her way home.

8 (37m 45s):
And it was so weird though, to go from, that's always so weird to be in this amazing environment, the ocean, to then leave it and then go back to, okay, now what am I doing the rest of the day? It's just so strange. But I didn't tell my parents what had happened because I knew I would've been in so much trouble because I was so irresponsible for me to swim offshore without support, without people watching the water. But I told myself it was really okay because, you know, Steve out was out there watching and the lifeguards were out there watching, and they knew what was going on, but it was still a stretch. You know, I think now that what I did was pretty dumb, but if I was to do it again, I'd still do it because I felt like it was something I could do.

7 (38m 40s):
A few weeks later, Lynn found herself off course in the ocean. She was trying to set a record, become the fastest person to swim the Catalina Channel, that 21 mile stretch off the coast of California. Lynn set out at midnight with a support boat, adori and a coach on a paddleboard beside her

8 (38m 57s):
On that attempt from Catalina Island. The fog came in at midnight. I got separated from my support boat, the Dori, and I just had a coach on a paddleboard. So we were lost in the middle of the channel at midnight, and there were ships surrounding us, and we were feeling the bow waves breaking to be lost in the fog where you can't see more than 10 meters in front of you in the pitch blackness. And to feel and to hear ships moving around you is absolutely terrifying. And my coach, who had had no experience in the open water, had told me to just keep swimming, because eventually the crew would find us.

7 (39m 37s):
But then Lynn thought of the baby whale, the way the whale, even though it lived in the water, had lost its way and ended up further and further from its mother. Lynn didn't want this to happen to her, so she stopped swimming and gave up her attempt at the record. She says she and her coach just stayed, put bobbing up and down in the water until eventually her crew picked them up.

1 (40m 10s):
Phoebe Judge, a version of this story was on her podcast. This is Love From Criminal and Vox Media, when Cox, she interviewed twice, won the record for the fastest crossing of the English channel. She's also the very first person to swim across the bearings straight from the United States to the Soviet Union, just for the record, by the way, it can be illegal to touch a whale. So, you know, don't try this at home.

1 (41m 4s):
Act three, the year of manacle thinking. So we now turn to another father and daughter who get abruptly thrown off the path they thought they were on shoved off chorus. And in this case, we see the strange places that takes 'em to Casey Wilson is a comedian. She does the story. It begins when she's 24 years old and her mom dies suddenly.

10 (41m 26s):
It happened on a family trip to Rehoboth Beach, Delaware. My parents got there a day before my brother and me and had a nice married couple's Evening, bought a Tom Clancy novel for my dad, took a walk on the beach holding hands, fell asleep, watching sex in the city. The next morning my dad got up earlier than my mom.

11 (41m 44s):
And so I went to to breakfast and gathered up all the papers for her. And then I came back to the room and lo and behold, I got just the shock of a lifetime as I realized that she wasn't doing very well at all. I mean, that's, that's to say the least. She was had turned black and blue in the two hours I had gone and left. And she, she had clearly died in that period of time from a heart attack.

10 (42m 19s):
My dad, Paul can be a little detached when he talks about this. And it's not just that it's a tough thing for anyone to talk about. He has a really hard time talking about his feelings, but he's expressive in so many other ways. To be clear, he's a great dad. When I was eight, he built the stage for me in the backyard to put on plays and during the finale, set off fireworks in the garden. He was my girl scout leader till I was 17. He's got a big personality. He's happy-go-lucky. Generous makes political ads for a living. So he has friends all over the country. People call him the unofficial mayor of our neighborhood. And my mom, Kathy was an equally big personality. She fought for the Equal Rights Amendment, was the youngest chairwoman of the National Women's Political Caucus.

10 (43m 4s):
She was an incredibly passionate person, the type who could go from anger to laughter in the same sentence, extremely funny and really just fun. The things she'd say before anything we did was, let's have a big old time. And so for her to just be gone, so suddenly she was only 54. Even my dad, who has a hard time expressing feelings, the word he uses is brutal.

11 (43m 29s):
It was absolutely instantly paralyzing, instantly frightening and disorienting

10 (43m 37s):
In a state of shock. My dad did something really strange, something I've never heard of anyone doing.

11 (43m 43s):
Well, I, I remember that I, back in the day we had film and so I, I noticed that I had a few images left on the roll.

10 (43m 54s):
This was 2005.

11 (43m 56s):
And I was, I was alone with your mom. And, and I decided to capture the moment with, with a few stills. What I didn't realize is how gruesome it really did. Look that when life is gone, it is gone.

10 (44m 15s):
And Dad, why was your instinct in that moment to take photos of mom?

11 (44m 22s):
Well, I, I just felt like we might want this now. I turned out we didn't want it, but we went ahead and, and, and have it,

10 (44m 35s):
I found these photos by accident. I was home about a year after she died. And flipping through rolls and rolls of photos my dad took and intermingled between pictures of his softball team were about a dozen photos of my mom dead. And one was a selfie. I threw them on the ground and just remember screaming and crying and my dad saying, oops, forgot those were on that roll. I thought, who would do this? Take a selfie with a dead body. And then how do you forget you have these photos and just leave them out for your kids to find. I mean, I was equally unmoored by my mom's death.

10 (45m 17s):
I moved a mattress into my closet. I set up a shrine to my mom around me and spent hours crying in the darkness of that strange cave. But my dad dealt with it very differently. He made choices I've never understood and we've never spoken about it. Talking for this story is the first conversation we've ever had about that time, Let's start with the funeral. My dad became obsessed with the idea that we were not only gonna want it filmed but filmed, right? So he hired a crew to do it as a three camera shoot, like a TV sitcom to make into a D V D that he'd give out as stocking stuffers, just what everyone wants for Christmas.

10 (45m 59s):
To give you a sense of how hardcore my dad was about all this, when I gave my eulogy the sound cutout during the last five minutes. So he insisted on bringing me into the sound booth at his office to do a d r, which in TV and film is when you rerecord any dialogue that got messed up. I work as an actress and I've done this many times, but to be directed by my father, saying goodbye to my mom was surreal.

11 (46m 23s):
And so I had you rerecord and so I pushed you a little bit and you weren't into it. You, you know, it was very low energy. And I said, come on Casey, you've gotta, you, you've gotta do this with a little more enthusiasm, a little more ooph

10 (46m 41s):
With a little more ooph. You wanted me to be you wanted me to feel it more. Yeah. And quote, really go there and

11 (46m 48s):
To cry.

10 (46m 49s):
And to cry. Yeah.

11 (46m 50s):
So I, I had you do it with a little more oomph and we finally got a good take.

10 (46m 56s):
But why did it feel so important to you at the time?

11 (46m 59s):
That's, that's a good question. It just felt like that was an act of completion and we needed it. We needed it done.

10 (47m 8s):
The final product did drop by Christmas. It was a three and a half hour, two-parter that I'm guessing not one person watched. Next, my dad decided to take the funeral on the road, meaning he set up six additional funerals in different cities across the country for his friends. If the funeral in our hometown was the Broadway show, my dad embarked on the national tour. He booked hotel conference rooms, brought along a life size photo of my mom and re-delivered his own eulogy at some of these, there were 60 or 70 people at the time. I could not understand why he would put himself through this again and again.

10 (47m 49s):
The way I saw it back then, based on his daily updates, these felt less like funerals and more like huge parties for him. I mean, a lot of these people never even met my mom, which left me wondering what was the point

11 (48m 3s):
I wanted her meaning your mom. I wanted her to feel like we had really loved her and really cherished her.

10 (48m 13s):
Yeah. Did you think at the time you felt more like, I'm doing this as sort of something to keep busy or drive towards or do instead of maybe like feeling

11 (48m 24s):
To me this was healing. You know, this was how I healed

10 (48m 28s):
Weeks after my dad got back from the funeral tour. Just three months after my mom died, I got a phone call from him. I never would've imagined I'd get so soon. I was driving in LA where I live and he told me he was going to start dating again. Then he amended that and said he had actually already started dating again. I found it unthinkable. How could he possibly be ready to date? It felt so dishonoring of my mom. I've never understood it and never asked why he started dating so soon till we had this conversation. The way he tells it, it's like it happened to him. This was not what I expected.

11 (49m 7s):
So I'm at the bar and I have my back to the windows and all of a sudden I hear pounding on the window and I turn around and it's somebody I don't know and they're motioning for me to go outside. I go outside and they instantly start kissing me. Don't ask me why, what, yeah, maybe they had had a little too much to drink. Wait,

10 (49m 31s):
Oh wait a minute, this is harass harassment

11 (49m 34s):
Out of the, out of the blue. And you know, I go,

10 (49m 39s):
You're telling me a woman kissed you from seeing you in a window?

11 (49m 43s):
Yeah. Through the window. Yes,

10 (49m 45s):
This woman was a complete stranger and to my IA predator, but to my dad, this felt like a meat. Cute. And when Harry met Sally and not long after that, the floodgates opened, he started dating everyone. My mom's good friends, mom's first cousin, a cspan anchor. Everyone. He literally, he asked a woman out he met in a crosswalk. When I think of my dad at this time, it's like he was a blurry image. He just never stopped moving. Some people say that the first year after a loved one dies is the worst. But for him, as he entered year two things ramped up even more. He was acting manic. He'd call every day with these new grandiose ideas and big plans that no one could talk him out of.

10 (50m 30s):
At one point he attempted to wallpaper our living room with wrapping paper because as he told me, why pay all that money for wallpaper when wrapping paper at the paper source is just as nice. He bought a woman in our church, new teeth, and then there was his hair.

11 (50m 45s):
The side walked into the woman had been cutting my hair and, and she was a senior, you know, you know, expert. And I walked in and I said, I want to do something different. And I pulled out a $20 bill and I held it up to her and I said, I wanna look like this. And it's Andrew Jackson and he has long waves of hair that go back across his ear and, and to the back of his head. And I go, that's how I wanna look.

10 (51m 23s):
This senior expert gave him a large barrel perm. He texted me a picture of himself in curlers. It is a shock I have never gotten over, and one I hope no one else has to go through. Then he had a run in with the law one night at a restaurant. He picked a fight with a mare D on behalf of an older woman who was not being seated. And the cops were called. And as they were dragging him out, my dad, who hadn't eaten yet, managed to rally the whole bar into throwing nuts into his mouth, shouting nut me. As he passed, he called me later that night laughing, just thinking I would get such a kick out of this story and his great comedic exit line.

10 (52m 5s):
And he was shocked by how concerned I was. Now, just to say my dad was seeing a grief therapist at the time, and unbeknownst to me, she helped explain what was happening to him. The sudden loss of his wife had triggered se manic behavior. It was a reaction to grief she'd seen before. There's actually a term for this bereavement mania, manic behavior caused by the stress of losing a loved one. And this kind of mania can happen in people with no other history of mood disorders. And it can happen just once and not recur. But at the time I didn't know any of that. And so I was just horrified by the things he was doing and the places he was showing up. Our neighbors across the street told him, Paul, come by any time, whatever you need the way people do when someone dies.

10 (52m 51s):
And he sure did. He showed up unannounced in their hot tub more than once. I told him, dad, no one wants you in their hot tub every night. These are hard words you're making me say to you, but you're giving me no choice. Or there was the time someone stole his car and he tried to set up a sting to get it back. I was so worried about him. I tried to get him to come stay with me so I could keep an eye on him. And when these tactics failed, I threw fits, I cried and he would actually yell, stop trying to control me. I'm fine. He kept trying to explain he was okay and that in fact he was having fun. Sometimes I'd felt like I'd lost my mom and my dad and then it all came to a head at a wedding.

10 (53m 34s):
Can we talk about Amanda's wedding?

11 (53m 36s):
Yeah, but I I I don't think it's really relevant here. Do you,

10 (53m 41s):
You don't think Amanda's wedding is relevant No. To the story of your manic phase after mom died?

11 (53m 47s):
Well, I mean, alright, you, you started off,

10 (53m 52s):
I understand why he's hesitant. It's the only thing he did during that period that still embarrasses him. My dad loves weddings. They're his Super Bowl. It was for my best friend Amanda. And my dad was the unofficial father of the bride. He was also as always filming the wedding. Those three cameras were back baby. So we were all on the dance floor outside and he was in his element, the life of the party. And then suddenly I couldn't find him to my horror, I looked up and found he'd made his way into the house where no one was allowed and was standing in this room that overlooked the dance floor. He was framed by huge floor to ceiling windows like a fishbowl.

10 (54m 33s):
And my dad had turned this living room into his own personal stage. He was hoisting up what looked like a dead body, but it turned out to be a bridesmaid. He'd rolled up in an area rug so that just her head was popping out. Thankfully she was in on the bit. He proceeded to bob her back and forth between his arms, like the way you see guys on the boardwalk try to juggle a stick between two other sticks. And then unfortunately, he stuck an empty beer bottle through the zipper of his pants and pretended to pee. Everyone was laughing, but it wasn't funny. It felt scary to see him like that. My brother, my friend's uncle and I raced into the house and we dragged him out across the giant lawn and he started putting on this baby voice saying mean no want to stop having fun, just begging us to go back to the party.

10 (55m 24s):
We finally got him to agree to go home and as he was getting on the bus, he turned to us and asked if we would hold his camera equipment for a second so he could tie his shoe the moment our hands were fully did a fake out and he took off running back across the lawn, jumping over hedges to get to the party, yelling, I'm free, I'm free. Turned out the hedges were filled with poison ivy, which landed him in the hospital the next day. I didn't know until we talked that this moment changed something for my dad. He realized,

11 (55m 58s):
What am I doing here? Maybe I'm a little outta control, you know? And yeah. And I started to say, I better bring it down a couple of notches.

10 (56m 10s):
So, so that night really was kind of this turning point for you, huh? That's

11 (56m 15s):
So interesting. I think so. That was certainly one that slowed me down and yeah. Which I needed at that point. Yep.

10 (56m 25s):
I really do think that was also a big moment for me because I, it was just the moment that I really gave up, I was just like, I can't control this man anymore. It doesn't feel good to do that to you. And I also simply can't, I don't think anyone can. One of the reasons I wanted to talk to you, because I think when mom died, we just grieved her very differently. You know, I really was hell bent that, you know, you were grieving wrong and I was grieving. Right. And you know, I'm kind of laying in bed and feeling, and you're not feeling to my eye how I was.

11 (56m 60s):
Well, I, I think it, it was just a different process for me and I, I felt, I felt the grief, but I also felt this compulsion almost to be the funny man to, to live a little bit. And at, at the same time that there is this tremendous sadness. There is this, the beginning of a little, you know, freedom. It just felt different, kind of pleasant to be free of shackles.

10 (57m 40s):
I, I guess I sort of, the reason I thought it, like felt wrong to me was even when you say you wanted to feel free of shackles, it sort of implies that mom was your shackles as opposed to grieving mom in a way.

11 (57m 53s):
Yeah. And I I don't mean it to be your mom, but it was just, yeah, it was just the notion that there were constraints on how all of us live our life and the constraints were off.

10 (58m 12s):
What he means is that when the stable suburban life he'd built for himself suddenly shattered. He thought, if I have to start over, then I'm just gonna do me. He got this idea. I was surprised to learn from someone at my mom's wake,

11 (58m 27s):
A woman who had lost her husband not that long ago, about 14, 15 months earlier, she came up to hug me. And I remember asking her, when does it get easier? And she, she just said It doesn't, and, and that said it all.

10 (58m 49s):
So we decided why not enjoy life in all those times, I thought I was being helpful and protecting him. I was actually making things worse.

11 (58m 58s):
I think what made me a little angry at times was how you wanted to control me and control my emotions and they weren't controllable.

10 (59m 11s):
Yeah. Did you, would you say I treated you kind of like a child?

11 (59m 17s):
No. Maybe just a little bit. But you were, you were trying to kind of keep me on the rails, keep me in a, in a straight and narrow and I felt like you were trying to say, no, no, this is how you have to feel. This is, you know, you have to be very sad.

10 (59m 39s):
Yeah. And what did you feel about, about me and how I kind of handled it and, and did it did

11 (59m 45s):
Fulfill well you were, you were pretty consistent in, in not liking anything.

10 (59m 50s):
Were you worried about me?

11 (59m 53s):
Very much so. Yeah. When, when someone's sleeping in their closet, I, I think that's caused for concern.

10 (1h 0m 0s):
From your perspective, from where you were at, did you feel like I was grieving wrong?

11 (1h 0m 6s):
Yeah, I guess I did. I mean, I didn't feel like it was a, you know, the, the most noble thing to be sleeping in your closet for over a year.

10 (1h 0m 17s):
You were very disturbed by that.

11 (1h 0m 20s):
Yeah. I thought it was friends. I thought it was disturbing.

10 (1h 0m 23s):
I know, but isn't it funny? At the time I thought, there's nothing weird about this at all. It's not weird at all that I found a twin size mattress in our, the garage of my building. And I have it sticking like half in the closet, half out. And before I would go to bed, I would just take a swig of this NyQuil every night. And then I would go through her date book. She, you know, just to see her handwriting and to see kind of all the upcoming events. It's almost like a mystery you wanna put together. And I think, oh, you know, it's say Fletcher's graduation and doctor's appointments and you're just kind of like, wow to not, not that this is such an original thought, but to have no notion or knowledge or something sad about someone planning out a future that's just never to be.

10 (1h 1m 12s):
While you can put a label on my dad's root of mania, you can also put a label on mine. Depression in a way. There are two sides of the same coin for my dad to have fun, go out on dates. I don't know, maybe it was healthier.

11 (1h 1m 28s):
Why did, why did it upset you so that, that you thought somebody was replacing your mom? Why? Why did it bother you so that you know?

10 (1h 1m 37s):
Oh, it was horrible. It was horrible. Horrible to think of. Un unfathomable,

11 (1h 1m 44s):
Huh? Yep.

10 (1h 1m 46s):
I really had it in my head. That to move on was like a, an insult to mom as opposed to you moving forward because you had to. Yeah, it was excruciating.

11 (1h 1m 57s):
Well, I can appreciate what you're saying. Yep.

10 (1h 2m 2s):
But I do feel I was too hard on you now that I'm married and I, I really am of the mind now. God. However anybody has to get through this is the right way.

11 (1h 2m 14s):
Yeah, that's right.

10 (1h 2m 15s):
And just, you know, there is no way

11 (1h 2m 20s):
It's, yeah, there is no way.

10 (1h 2m 28s):
It wasn't until eight years after my mom's death that our grief lifted a little, not all of it, it will always be there, but I remember the moment that it lifted enough to finally feel like it wasn't crushing us. It happened on a trip my brother Fletcher, my dad and I took to the beach. It was just the three of us, our family now missing a limb on the plane. My dad told us that he had met someone, a woman named Marjorie, a speech writer and professor. And we could tell in his voice that this woman was different. He was in love. And for the first time I was flooded with happiness for my dad, that he was moving on. By this point, I was also dating my now husband, David. And my brother shared that when he got home from this trip, he was going to propose to his now wife, Kathleen.

10 (1h 3m 13s):
And so I remember on this trip, there was a feeling in the air that this would be the last trip, just the three of us. We didn't talk about it, but we knew we all scuba dive. And I remember the dive we went on there. We were 100 feet below the surface. It was very calm. But I turned and looked to my right and was shocked to see a literal abyss, just a cliff and darkness below. It was eerie, but we drifted away from it and kept swimming, alternating who was ahead and who was behind. And that's how I like to think of us swimming together towards the surface.

1 (1h 3m 57s):
Casey Wilson is the author of the memoir, the Wreckage of My Presence. You can also see her in the Shrink Next Door on Apple tv.

3 (1h 4m 7s):
Where

12 (1h 4m 24s):
Do I even recognize me? I think

3 (1h 4m 28s):
Somewhere

12 (1h 4m 30s):
Along the line I lost my way.

1 (1h 4m 35s):
Where today's program was produced by Elna Baker with help from Chris Benderev. People who put together today's program include Dana Chi Cole, Michael, Rebecca Davis of Kornfeld Jones, Tobin, Navarro, stone, Nelson, Katherine Rayo, Spiegel, Emmy, and Alyssa Ship. Christopher. So Matt Tierney, Julie Whitaker, and Diane Wu, our managing editor, Sarah Abdurahman, our senior editors, David Kastenbaum, our executive editors, Emmanuel Berry. Additional help on today's rerun from LM Mustafa. Special thanks today, Ari Sine, George Green, Steve Callahan, NAIA Wilson Orange, SP Nick Pineson, Greg Mark Elliot, and Madeline Don. Even Lee. Have you heard at the beginning of our show, Rens the one music project, which is musicians from around the world trying to bring Chamber of Music to a bigger audience.

1 (1h 5m 16s):
Their website, one music project.com, our website, this american life.org, where you can stream our archive of over seven 50 programs who are absolutely free. Also, there's videos, there's lists of favorite shows. If you're looking for something to listen to, tons of other stuff there again, this American life.org, this American Life is delivered a public radio stations by px, the Public Radio exchange. Thanks always Stroke program's Co-founder Mr. Tori Melilla, who is a foolproof strategy for playing Marco Polo.

8 (1h 5m 48s):
You start swimming in a huge circle and that makes it more difficult for anyone to find you.

1 (1h 5m 54s):
I'm a glass back next week with more stories of this American life. God,

3 (1h 5m 59s):
Think somewhere.

1 (1h 6m 23s):
Mario Glass. It's been nine months since Roe versus Wade was overturned. And next week on the podcast of this American Life, we talk with women who got pregnant, right when the Supreme Court ended their right to an abortion. These women wanted abortions and they had to wait for an appointment out of state for abortion pills. And during that waiting, interesting things happened. A lot can happen in nine months. What we found next week on the podcast we're on your local public radio station.