0 (1s):
A quick warning. There are curse words that are unbanked in today's episode of the show. If you prefer a beeped version, you can find that at our website, this American life.org

1 (12s):
From WB easy Chicago, it's this American life I'm Sean Cole sitting in for hourglass. This is not a story about bicycle theft. It's a story about a counterintuitive impulse exhibited by the human species in which a lot of bicycles happen to get stolen. The first bike belonged to a physical therapist named Carrie Hellinger. This was in Seattle back in 2015. She rode her bike to work. Like always locked it up securely, like always. And when she came down to get it at the end of the day, it was gone. She felt about this. How you might imagine

2 (43s):
Mad, you know, like, why do you want my bike? And now how am I going to get home? And it's late and I'm tired and just frustrated and pissed and all that.

1 (53s):
The cops were remarkably responsive, came right away. They were also deeply pessimistic said all the usual things. You're not likely to get it back. We get reports like this all the time. There's really nothing we can do unless something happens. I'm Carrie. Wasn't sure what that meant until something did happen. She was at work the next day, tending to her physical therapy. Patients only checking her phone now, and then between appointments.

2 (1m 18s):
And I remember seeing this text from a number that I didn't know, that just said something like, I may have found your bike. And I'm like, what, what do I do with that? You know, I don't know who you are. Is this a joke? Is this a scam? Like, that was the thing that kept crossing my mind a lot is like, is this some weird scam?

1 (1m 37s):
Were you like trying to mathematically figure in your head like how the scam might've worked? If it was a scam?

2 (1m 43s):
I mean, I dunno how they would know it was me. So this is the thing that I kept trying to figure out. Like, would they steal my bike and then know it's me and then ask me for money and then they'd make money on it. And they'd give me my bike back. And they've got $100 more or something

1 (1m 55s):
Which Gary says that would have been fine with her is better than having no bike. Anyway, she didn't know how to respond. Put the phone down, examined more hips and shoulders and knees came back to another text

2 (2m 7s):
That said, what is your bike stolen? I think I may have found it on Craigslist. And so I'm like, okay, so this is the same guy, you know, more questions. And so I'm like, yes, it was stolen. Who are you? You know? And then I think, you know, at that point he probably responded and said, I was looking for a bike for my wife.

3 (2m 25s):
I was looking for a bike for my wife. And this ad came up on Craigslist, real questionable.

1 (2m 31s):
This is the guy who was texting Dirk. DeGroote works in Marine construction, big cyclist himself by questionable. He means the ad was poorly written and listed the bike for way less than it should have cost.

3 (2m 43s):
A couple of blurry pictures taken at night. And you're thinking who the hell takes pictures at night? So I did a little bit, you know, some Googling and I found bike index.

1 (2m 53s):
It's a site where people can register their bikes and report them stolen. As Kerry had done,

2 (2m 58s):
He said, I saw that you posted it on bike. And since I was like, I hadn't, you know, this is like starting to sound a little bit more legit, but I still have no idea who he is. I think we spoke probably around my lunch break and he told me that he was maybe going to go get the bike. And I was like, what? And he was like, yeah, I remember him saying, I want to put, like, I'm kind of jazzed about this. Like, I'm getting a little adrenaline high from the sort of like, part of me is like, great. You know, that solves that problem. Like somebody, if he wants to do that, but like, are you not like, why do you, why do you want to do that?

2 (3m 40s):
And be careful like, I, that would be the scariest thing for me. There's no way I would ever do that.

1 (3m 47s):
Dark did do it arranged to meet the guy, selling the bike, except when he got to the appointed spot unexpectedly, it was three guys, two more than him. And he gives the bike a once-over careful to check out the serial number when she'd gotten from Carrie and sure enough it's hers.

3 (4m 5s):
At this point, I had no idea what I was doing. I was like, oh, fuck shit. Okay. I've got this piece of paper in my hand with a serial number. And I'm looking at these three guys and I'm holding an Allen key. And like,

1 (4m 18s):
So he takes out his phone kind of subtly dials nine one one, and the call won't go through no signal.

3 (4m 26s):
So I lied and I was like, yeah, well that was the cops guys. They're on their way.

1 (4m 32s):
And as if there were ever any doubt as to the Providence of the bike, one of the guys at the very mention of the police just takes off running.

3 (4m 39s):
So he scoots off and there's two guys and they're both sitting there a little agitated. They don't know if I'm lying and I'm, it's, Seattle's pretty steep. So I'm thinking, you know, maybe I could like Sparta kick one of these guys down the hill

1 (4m 51s):
Sparta kick.

3 (4m 52s):
I was like, I don't know what I'm going to do with the other one. I've got this I'm tall, you know, but I've had my ass kicked so many times my friends will tell you I'm not a very good fighter.

1 (5m 2s):
And then after several long moments with the three of them, just kind of staring at each other as though bidding farewell to a couple of drinking buddies for the evening, Derek says,

3 (5m 11s):
Well, guys, you know, we're in kind of a stalemate. I'm just going to take it through the bike in the back of my truck.

2 (5m 16s):
And then, you know, calls, it's your bike. I have it. Where should I meet you? And I'm like, I just was so excited. He pulls up when he pulls my bike out and I'm like, and he's like, here you go. It's like, can I pay you? What do you want? He's like, no, you don't need to pay me. It's fine. I mean, it just was really crazy to me that like the night before my heartbroken, my bike is stolen and like the next night I can ride my bike home already. But it just felt weird,

1 (5m 52s):
Which brings me to what the story is about the fact that Dirk's actions will seeming to come totally natural to him made no sense from the outside, even to the person who directly benefited from those actions, Carrie's brain could not stop trying to make sense of it. Even as she wrote away that night,

2 (6m 9s):
You know, you just did this huge, amazing thing for me, that was incredibly kind. And I'm still very cautious. And maybe that speaks more, you know, of me in a cautious nature, I don't know.

1 (6m 22s):
Or it speaks to the how, how just unusual it is.

2 (6m 27s):
Like when somebody really do this, would they go steal my bike back for me and then bring it to me? Like, why would somebody do this? Why

1 (6m 36s):
There's gotta be a catch somewhere,

2 (6m 38s):
Right? Yeah.

1 (6m 40s):
But there wasn't dirt just does stuff like this. Like if he's driving and he sees a cyclist with a flat tire,

3 (6m 47s):
I'm like the idiot that stops on the side of the road, I'm like, do you need any help? And the was like, fuck off, like no weirdo. Okay. Well let me know. Yeah.

1 (6m 56s):
And he likes helping people. You can still picture how happy Carrie looks when he dropped the bike off.

3 (7m 1s):
She was just fucking, I mean, stoked, absolutely elated. And you know, seeing all this emotion on her face, you know, I, I'm not a very emotional guy, but I've, I mean, I felt like just a deep sense of accomplishment and it felt it just so good. That was a very specific feeling. You know, it's the same feeling I now get when I come home from being gone for work for a week and my son jumps down the stairs to hug me. It's like, oh wow, this is great. You know, I love this so much.

1 (7m 37s):
It sounds like you're describing appreciation.

3 (7m 41s):
Yeah, yeah, yeah. I guess that, Hmm. That very well could be, you know, just feeling appreciated. It might've been, you know, the trigger,

1 (7m 54s):
The trigger to make, you want to keep doing it. Yeah.

3 (7m 56s):
Yeah. The trigger to make me want to keep doing that.

1 (7m 58s):
And he did keep doing it before too long. He recovered a bike for a guy from Colorado who had just moved to town like Kerry. The guy was very grateful to have his bike back. Then there was the college student who bought Derek a six pack of IPA after he rescued her bike for her dirt. Doesn't really drink beer though. The systems administrator who mailed him an envelope of cash, which wasn't even the nicest part of it for dirt.

3 (8m 20s):
I had his thank you card on my wall for, you know, my office for a long time.

1 (8m 27s):
And his methods were pretty consistent. Always started with obsessively scrolling sites like Craigslist and offer up to see what bikes were for sale. And then cross-referencing those against the stolen bikes on bike index. Then he'd messaged the person selling the stolen bike and say, he's interested in buying it. Sometimes he'd give the cops a heads up and have them waiting nearby to swoop in. And just the right moment. Other times he'd just confidently. And with an almost eerie, calm to say something like,

3 (8m 54s):
Hey, I'm not accusing you of stealing this bike. I just know it's stolen. You may have stolen. It don't care. And they would typically scoot off.

1 (9m 7s):
It took him 10 recoveries before he really felt like he knew what he was doing after the 20th one, a Seattle police detective who specialized in property crime gave dork his direct line, told them to always call and arrange for backup ahead of time that sting the 20th one was significant in a lot of ways, actually it wasn't just a bike theft. It was a home invasion. The thieves grabbed everything. They could get their hands on Dirk essentially cracked that case. One of the officers on duty that night looked at Dirk and asked him the perennial question.

3 (9m 38s):
Like, why the hell are you doing this? I was like, I, it just feels really good, you know, to help these people. And he's like, God, so interesting. You're like Robin hood because no Robin hood Rob's from the rich. And it gives you the poor, I guess you're like Batman. And that was it. I mean, that was it. And they were like, oh Mike Batman,

4 (9m 57s):
He's not

1 (9m 57s):
Waiting.

3 (9m 59s):
It was sticky enough that it stuck.

5 (10m 0s):
People are calling him Seattles and Fike Batman

6 (10m 3s):
Bike, repo, Batman on roll against thieves.

7 (10m 7s):
That's what they call him. The, the bike Batman here, bike Batman here in Seattle. And I think Brian Hanson

1 (10m 22s):
The Seattle times broke the story followed by local TV and radio outlets, other newspapers and magazines in all of the accounts, Dirk stayed anonymous. He only decided to unmask himself for this story because he's not doing it anymore. And he says he just hasn't had time for anything since his kids came along. But the newsworthiness of it was that someone would go so very far out of his way to retrieve property, that wasn't his for people. He didn't know. It was like the whole world had the same reaction as Carrie Heminger. The first person dark helped who was mentioned in one of the magazine pieces.

2 (10m 56s):
I had to laugh because in the article he writes like, I think she thought I was a weirdo. And I'm like, huh,

1 (11m 4s):
Of course the whole thing seems a lot less weird. If you're Dirk, DeGroote from his perspective, he figured out how to solve this problem. And once he figured it out, he couldn't not solve it because no one else was doing it. He was like, somebody has got to do it.

3 (11m 19s):
I kind of knew what to do. And it was hard for people to people just didn't know, like I do, you know what to do? If you'd find your bike stolen on Craigslist,

1 (11m 28s):
I actually can't think of a better way to spend your time on this planet than to identify something that's vexing someone else or a lot of someone else's. And to put yourself into that gap between them and the solution. So today on our show, we're going to tell you about some remarkable people who do that and why they do it and how it goes, or doesn't go for them. Stay with us. There's this image that's really stuck with a lot of us here at the show. You might've seen it. It's the photo of strollers, baby strollers at a train station in Poland in short, these Polish moms anticipating a problem that Ukrainian refugee mothers might have when they crossed the border, clutching their little kids started leaving strollers for them at different points of entry in the photo.

1 (12m 22s):
They're all lined up on the train platform. Some fancy, some, not some new, some with worn tires, each one, a Polish family, thinking about what could possibly be helpful when everything else is falling apart and providing it. Another problem that war has yielded, you've probably heard is the lack of access in Russia to real accurate information about what's going on with the brutality of the war. Essentially the Russian propaganda bubble tamping down on public opposition, which is what act one of today's show is about. And it's about someone on a personal mission to solve that problem. We're calling this act cold call to arms and it's from producer release Spiegel

8 (13m 2s):
Polis, and spent the first 13 years of his life in the USSR. So he knows how complicated it can be to live in a world with limited information. This was Lithuania in the eighties. And what is remembers about living in that world is the distrust and the haziness. You had your suspicions, a creeping sense that there was something off about the news you were hearing, but there was no way to know for sure. And no one around you knew either. So after Putin invaded Ukraine, Polis reached out to friends in Russia to talk about the war. These were educated people, well-read people, but the Russian version of what was happening made his blood run cold.

8 (13m 42s):
The story they'd heard was that Russia was just trying to help with the genocide.

9 (13m 47s):
There was genocide of Russian people going on all the time. And so we need to take out that government. If we, if we will not do that, they gonna go on killing Russian people in there. So we have this neat, tiny operation military operation going on there. We're just taking off the government

8 (14m 13s):
In the world. Russians knew there were no pregnant mothers dying on gurneys. No leveled cities, no dead civilians at all.

9 (14m 21s):
Some of them told, tell me stories about Russians bringing in food and clothing for Ukrainians.

8 (14m 30s):
It was a whole parallel universe of information constructed and policed by Putin. Polis believes the foundations of that universe are more fragile than they look that if the Russian people could really see no, what was happening in their name? Putin's Potemkin village might crumble. Someone needed to do something so Russians could understand the real horror of the war they were fighting. And then one day Polis was sitting in a meeting and his phone began to buzz. It was a friend calling to say that he had an idea about how they might solve this. Russians don't know about the war problem

9 (15m 7s):
Since you know, Polis. What's funny about Russia. So I dunno, there's nothing funny about Russia. To me, he says they got their phone numbers public. So you just go online and you can get a hold of those numbers so we can call them

8 (15m 27s):
As they talked, the two began to piece together a plan. What if they built a website where you pushed a button and got the name and telephone number of someone somewhere in Russia, Russian speakers from outside Putin sealed universe could call in, tell Russian people one by one person to person all about what was going on. Polis works in advertising. He spent his life trying to convince people to do something they do not currently feel a need to do. So he knew that hearing an authentic human voice, making a passionate case can be a very powerful way to alter someone's behavior.

9 (16m 5s):
You men authenticity has a lot of power in it's up. Gender. Wade is hearing adept from person who's genuine is much more persuasive than reading it on a Boosie news is much more likely to, to get through

8 (16m 24s):
Still Polis. Wasn't sure that this was a good idea. So many Russian speakers outside the country were really angry. He worried he'd just be creating a tool for people to shout at each other. Polis himself was struggling with his feelings about the Russian people. Do you see them as victims or do you see them as complicit?

9 (16m 47s):
Oh, it's so difficult to distinguish those two things is so difficult to distinguish those two things. I'm trying to, to put all the somebody I have into this. Is it coming from the fact that I think that's gonna create a bridge and I'm cynical, or do I truly have sympathy?

8 (17m 17s):
Polis didn't have a clear answer. What he knew was that the scheme had at least the potential to help shift the tide. So he put his doubts aside and decided to go forward,

9 (17m 28s):
Look, bolus. You can come up with all problems you want, you know, you can make a problem that don't exist, but if you don't do anything, nothing will happen.

8 (17m 42s):
Paula says that he and his colleagues worked around the clock for five days until the website call Russia went live about a week and a half into the war. The landing page featured a large yellow button, which randomly generated Russian telephone numbers. And the site was an immediate hit. Paula says they logged 32,000 calls in the first two days. Still. It wasn't until late on launch day that Polus himself was able to sit down and try out this idea. He pressed the yellow button then called the number that appeared on his screen. The phone was answered by a man.

9 (18m 19s):
I told them who I am and he started shouting him immediately. And I, I said, I don't wish Anthem wrong. I'm just an ordinary person trying to connect to two people in Russia. And I said, do you know what is happening there? And he shouted at me. They are. I remember that very vividly. He showed it to me. They are killing us there and we're trying to save them. And he said, he cursed at me. Ain't hang up the phone. So that was my first conversation.

8 (18m 59s):
A few calls later pull us, heard the voice of a woman.

9 (19m 3s):
What I find on calls, most of women will, will talk humanly to me. But that lady she was. So that lady yelled at me like, I don't know, probably seven minutes. And she was saying, do you know who I am as see, of course I don't, I don't have a clue. I don't know which, which Sudan calling. Could you tell me please? And she was I'm the daughter of <inaudible> and now I'm in the visiting my father to take care of you. Now I know she's not, well, I guess she's not a daughter of put in. Okay.

9 (19m 44s):
He can't be that coincidence or I, it, it can't, it, it, but she started like playing her joke around is like daddy, there there's Lithuania who wants to find out about the war? And I was saying like, my dad, why are you doing that? I truly genuinely want to talk with you about what is happening in Ukraine. You can't get gain. You telling me, like, what do you know about it? And she was like, daddy,

8 (20m 20s):
Paula says that many of the calls have been like those unreceptive hostile. But then every once in a while, there's a different kind of call. Like the man who answered the phone and at first seemed to quite friendly.

9 (20m 33s):
Soft-spoken, I'm polite. And I would just introduce myself. I've told what I'm doing and why I want to talk about, and, and, and he kept going with me nicely. But at the moment he understood what is about, she shut up, but I could feel his there.

8 (20m 54s):
So Polis went forward, told the man about the war, all the terrors that pull us had seen on TV poured out of him.

9 (21m 2s):
So he, he did it as big. Like I was saying those things like for probably four or five minutes, he wasn't talking a word. And when I've finished, interestingly, he said, goodbye. You know, it touched me. He felt he needed to say goodbye. So, you know, which is such a polite thing to do. So.

8 (21m 27s):
And you, you heard in his silence, what

9 (21m 32s):
<inaudible> person breathing, but most probably something they hear very clearly is fear. So, you know, I was shocked that fear has a sound. I can't, I can't tell you what the sound of fear, but you can't hear that.

8 (22m 2s):
The day we spoke, I watched Polis make a bunch of calls to strangers in different parts of Russia. What struck me was the TDM. It felt like very bizarre. Geopolitical, telemarketing

11 (22m 19s):
I'm in London

9 (22m 21s):
Number.

8 (22m 22s):
There were a lot of dead ends.

11 (22m 28s):
I start to such

9 (22m 29s):
Voicemail,

8 (22m 31s):
But every once in a while, pull us got through

9 (22m 42s):
That. <inaudible> yeah. Volunteer programming <inaudible> and we <inaudible> <inaudible> Last name, this listener. So he hang up the phone key, says she knows everything. Okay. So that wasn't a good call.

8 (23m 20s):
Colace makes calls like these several times a week, he spends hours on the phone. Sometimes he gets people like the quiet man, listeners who connect, but mostly Pola says people are screaming. And oddly, he thinks that those calls are the best

9 (23m 37s):
To me. Screaming people are actually the ones that we need to talk to.

8 (23m 44s):
What

10 (23m 44s):
Do you

9 (23m 45s):
Mean? Cause these, cause these are the supporters of what is going on in, you know, it is it's pleasing and nice for me to have that nice conversation with other person that I had this several of people. It's so nice to have that conversation with those people. But it's the goal is not about having a nice conversation is about some of the people that are persuaded, that they're doing a good thing in, in Ukraine to understand that they're not doing a good thing in your brain.

8 (24m 29s):
Polis has realistic about what this approach will accomplish. You says about 75% of the Russian population supports Putin and those people aren't going to suddenly take to the streets, but he figures, he might nudge them a little so that when they see their neighbors protesting, instead of reaching out to the police, to let them know, they might pause, ask themselves if that's really the best thing to do. That's why even when someone is yelling, Polis tries to persevere emotionally, how hard is it for you to withstand the screaming?

9 (25m 3s):
Yeah, it's super hard. I mean, it is very hard is, is, oh my gosh. I don't know how to. I mean, if you read a trial or somewhere, you are in a D in a, in a, in a, in a different world,

8 (25m 19s):
Do you ever feel like it's not worth it and you can't do it more?

9 (25m 26s):
No, no. I, I, they S they S people who going, you know, fighting in Ukraine, this people who's dying. People killed daily. There's like 10 people killed today in their bread line, Staring at the bread line, How it can do.

8 (25m 51s):
Yeah. Paul has told me, he'd never know for sure whether anything he was doing made even a Whit of difference. But even if these calls were a drop of water for a forest fire, Polis still thought it was important to try.

9 (26m 13s):
Most of the things people are doing most probably will have very little or no impact at all. The other day was doing flowers together, like paper flowers together with a grain and children that there's doing flowers with Ukraine. Children will stop the war in Russia in Ukraine, sorry. Most probably not. But that sense of people coming together explicitly trying to do something, even if that's futile, it just makes us all of us struggle.

8 (26m 48s):
Paula says, since the website launched, they've been tracking the countries where people were calling from. He told me that first calls were mostly from where he was Lithuania, but soon he and his colleagues noticed it was spreading the idea of hopping from one country to the next, until they saw that Russian speakers from all over the world were reaching out to the people inside Putin's bubble. They'd seen the same problem Polis did, and they were all trying their best to solve it with him.

1 (27m 27s):
At least Spiegel. That's one of the producers of our show And act to zoo unto others. On the first day of the war, there were 30 visitors to the zoo and Kiev Ukraine on the ninth day of the war. There were none, no paying visitors. That was the day Washington post reporter Chavonne O'Grady. And a couple of her colleagues went there to meet the zookeepers. Chavonne had been wondering about the people in Ukraine who were still working while the country had been under siege, not just military, but everyday workers, pharmacists, grocery store employees. It's the same thought a lot of us have had about essential workers during the pandemic.

1 (28m 7s):
Except in this case, there are literally bombs going off around them. She wanted to know what it was like to do their jobs now under what are probably the most extreme circumstances possible. They went to the zoo in the afternoon for a few rushed hours before curfew Chavon said it was eerie. The giant colorful giraffe statue at the entrance after they had just passed through several checkpoints to get there. The winding paths were virtually empty. The zookeepers were keeping the animals inside, partly because of the cold and also because the animals could be killed. If they came out for some exercise at the wrong moment, the zoo is right near a military facility that might be targeted by Russian forces. And they were worried about Aaron missiles in total, about 50 staffers out of the usual 375 had stayed behind to look after the animals.

1 (28m 54s):
I asked Chavonne what was behind their decision to stick it out.

12 (28m 57s):
The ones I spoke to didn't make it sound like a decision. It wasn't an option. The staff members really felt a responsibility to stay. And that, that would be the way that they would spend the war

1 (29m 10s):
Because there is no one else, right? Like if they left, what do you think would happen? Would there be anybody that would like leap over the zoo wall to

12 (29m 19s):
Know the animals would die

1 (29m 21s):
4,000 animals and be locked away in their pens and enclosures slowly starving to death. If dehydration didn't get them first and not just anyone can do this job. And it takes special skill and knowledge, the different animals, dietary needs, some of the animals need to live at different temperatures than others. It's a hefty enough task during peace time. And of course, lots of aspects of the job are different in a war zone.

12 (29m 44s):
First of all, the zookeepers are mainly living at the zoo, which they normally would not be doing. The staff moved some of their families in the head of the zoo. Carrillo Trenton moved his elderly mother into the zoo with him too, in order to care for her and the animals,

1 (30m 5s):
Is it that they can't live at home or they just thought it was safer at the zoo?

12 (30m 9s):
It's both. So in some cases, maybe they live in a part of town that could eventually be cut off or made very difficult to get between the zoo and home, in which case they would be separated from each other. And it's also that some of them live in neighborhoods that have already been targeted by strikes.

1 (30m 27s):
Are they sleeping with the animals?

12 (30m 30s):
So every night a staff member has been sleeping with the elephant Horus, the elephant to comfort him because elephants are really sensitive in general. They also have enormous ears and really good hearing. So the booms and the sirens have been especially upsetting to him to the point that he's been put on sedatives. And at night he was apparently waking up walking around exhibiting signs of extreme stress. And they were so worried about him, that one of the staff members has volunteered to just stay in there with him. And so when he gets stressed at night, they speak to him in a kind of calming voice.

12 (31m 11s):
They feed him his favorite snacks of apples and things like that. And just kind of talk him down after any booms, until he can go back to sleep.

1 (31m 21s):
Some of the staffers and their families occasionally sleeping in an aquarium, that's still under construction. Also underground bunker, like Chavon told me, you could see where one day, hopefully there'll be glass and fish, but right now there are all kinds of cots with pillows and sleeping bags on them. Chavonne imagine how nice and cool it'll be to hang out down there during the summer months, if and when they can finish building it During their tour of the zoo, the zookeepers handed Chavon and apple, and showed her how to feed Horace elephant with sleep trouble.

1 (32m 6s):
They visited Tony the gorilla. Who's also been agitated, not because of the explosions necessarily. He's had no interaction with guests and apparently misses it a lot that visibly excited when his handler finally showed up, also spat out his lunch all over one of Shavonne's colleagues. For some reason, In the administration building, one of the animal handlers was feeding a brand new baby lemur, this incredibly small, soft, delicate thing, especially compared to the chaos it was born into. They named him by rockstar, which is a kind of Turkish drone that the Ukrainians are against the Russians. They were thinking of naming his sibling. Javelin Chavon asked the zookeepers, which of the animals were the least concerned about all of the explosions and sirens, the crocodiles they said, and the alligator, all they care about is eating.

1 (32m 55s):
But as interesting as she found the animals, it was really the people. She was there to learn about one of the zookeepers who interested her most was Ivan rib Chanco who still commutes to the zoo from home on his bike.

12 (33m 6s):
And I was interested when I saw him because he was feeding a banana to a draft and the air raid sirens had just gone off. We could hear booms in the background and both he and the drafts just didn't react at all. They just continued with the feeding and he was just being really gentle and sweet with the draft. And we were all kind of looking around like, should we take cover? Do you think it's okay? And they were like, you know, we're just going to keep eating this banana. So I asked him, you know, why are you still here? He's a young man of fighting age is 33.

12 (33m 45s):
Most guys, his age have probably volunteered for the forces are doing something more directly related to the war effort, but he didn't see it that way at all. I mean, he said that his responsibility is the drafts, the deer and the horses at the zoo and his job is a public service. And that's his contribution to the, to the fight,

1 (34m 12s):
To the war effort. Yeah. He really saw it that way.

12 (34m 16s):
He did,

1 (34m 17s):
Which is something has seen a lot of, she says the people who've chosen to stay and continue doing their jobs and met the fighting. All of them, see what they're doing as their role in the defending of Ukraine. After all, along with staving off the day-to-day attacks, they also need to preserve any pockets of normalcy. They can, the things they had before the invasion. And that will mean still having a zoo. When the war ends one day You can reach Yvonne's article for the Washington post about the Keef zoo at Washington, post.com Coming up, being a voice for the voiceless in possibly the most McCobb and yet literal meaning of that phrase.

1 (35m 4s):
That's an a minute from Chicago public radio. When our program continues,

15 (35m 10s):
Hey, this American life listeners, I'm Anna Martin, the host of the modern love podcast. In every episode, we peek into an intimate corner of someone's life and learn about what love means to them.

16 (35m 22s):
You know, I can tell you 35 years with another person, I've never spent that much time with anyone else either.

15 (35m 28s):
So we both kind of said, I love you pretty fast.

17 (35m 30s):
My advice is that it's okay. If it's hard,

15 (35m 33s):
You can listen to modern love wherever you get your podcasts.

1 (35m 41s):
It's this American life. I'm Sean Cole and fiberglass today's program. Well, someone had to do something stories about someone's stepping up, taking it upon themselves to tackle some problem larger, small for the greater good or just for a discreet few cause who else is going to we've reached act three of our show act three, one last thing. After I go, all the people tackling problems in the show up to this point, identified themselves what needed to be done in this next story. The person jumping into the fray, never even conceived of the thing that he was ultimately asked to do by somebody else, producer, Viva de Cornfeld, and explains

18 (36m 20s):
This all started a few years back as a joke in strange circumstances. Yes, but definitely it was not meant to be taken seriously.

19 (36m 29s):
Yeah, it was a joke. Absolute joke. I, I think that literally

18 (36m 34s):
This is bill Edgar, the private investigator in Queensland, Australia, and around the time of the joke, bill had been looking into some financial matters for a client named Graham

19 (36m 45s):
At the time. I didn't know he was terminally ill. It was not until a couple of months in that I was investigating and grime told me he was terminally ill and he hadn't got long to go. And then I got to know grime quite well. And you know, it was one of those things that you start to talk about death, the afterlife what's going to happen, who's around. And it became apparent that he really had a job. He just wanted done

18 (37m 11s):
Grim told bill he had something he wanted said at his funeral stuff. He wanted to be sure everyone would hear, he thought about making a video of himself giving his own eulogy, but worried his family wouldn't play it. This thing you had to say, it wasn't very funeral appropriate. So as a joke, bill offered to crash his funeral and say, whatever it was, grandma had said,

19 (37m 33s):
Hey, I could see him. He's like his mind was ticking over

18 (37m 39s):
Register.

19 (37m 40s):
Oh yeah, yeah. He had, he had this, this thing about him where you could just see it. And I thought to myself, oh, did I just plant the seed? Or did the penny drop, did something just happened? Then

18 (37m 53s):
A couple of weeks later, they'll got a text from Graham basically saying, let's do it once I'm dead. You go to my funeral and I'll prepare a thing for you to say

19 (38m 2s):
I was in a cafe when I'd received the text. So I remember I was about to leave the cafe, but I ended up ordering another coffee and sitting there going, fuck, am I going to do this?

18 (38m 14s):
Bill agreed to do it. And Graham explained the situation after he'd gotten sick and become bedridden. His best friend, John had started hitting on his wife, trying to sleep with her. Grandpa had even seen it happen a few times. His wife told John to knock it off, but he wouldn't stop. And Graham was too sick to really engage her, do anything about it, but it made him really mad. So this is what Graham wanted bill to do, go to his funeral. And when his best friend stood up to deliver his eulogy bill is to interrupt him and call him out for what he'd done. Grandma eventually died. And bill a total stranger to the family, went to his funeral, armed with Graham's message written on a piece of paper.

18 (38m 58s):
Bill was nervous. The service started.

19 (39m 2s):
It was a, it was a blur to start with. I mean, I was sweating profusely and I got to say is, you've got your, your time on your phone. You know? And I'm looking at the clock and I'm thinking, okay, this might spare to do the eulogy. And I knew I had to get up within one minute, two minutes, most to interrupt the eulogy. And he's his best mate stands up. And he starts blabbering and telling everybody how much he loves his best mate and starts talking about a certain particular time that they shared. And that was that moment. I looked at my clock and I went, ah, it's nearly two minutes in that church. They were like long pews and they were timber.

19 (39m 44s):
So when you stood up or you loose, you know, they, they made a sound and yeah, when I stood up, it made a sound and obviously everyone just looked straight at you. You know, I froze to see, honestly, I stood up and I just stood there and okay.

18 (40m 3s):
Phil started reading what Graham had written out for him.

19 (40m 5s):
My name's <inaudible>. And I'm here on behalf of the deceased, who has a message for you? All. John is Graham here. I've hired bill to interrupt your eulogy, to tell you that I witnessed you on several occasions, trying to screw my wife. God love her. She rejected every one of your advances, but that doesn't mean

18 (40m 25s):
Best friend. John speed walked out of the church. As bill heard. Some people whispering, telling him to sit down, but bill had a job to do. There was more to read.

19 (40m 36s):
If my brother, his wife and their daughter are here, you can kindly fuck off too. I haven't seen you in 30 years. And now you show up to pay your respects. Where were you when I was alive and could have used your around in the hard times this year, right

18 (40m 52s):
There, along with his wife and their daughter quickly left the church as well.

19 (40m 57s):
You could hear a lot of whispering within the, within the mourners. You know, and some Warners is sitting there going, fuck you. I don't know why she was here anyway. Then I'd be like, oh cool. At least they're on my side. I do know

18 (41m 18s):
As quickly as it started, it ended bill folded up the paper, put it on top of the coffin and walked outside to his car. His shirt was soaked through with nervous sweat. He was worried, angry. Relatives might come after him. But at same time, he's pretty clear on how I felt about the whole thing. Did you like doing it?

19 (41m 39s):
Fuck. Yeah, absolutely was brilliant. You know what? I love most walking out. I thought that was just like grime had the mic drop, which is something that not many people get to do. You know, I had the ultimate experience that just walking away from it all and not even knowing what happens to the aftermath. So I'm just walking out and I'm going to my car. And I only just made it to the car. When a young girl came running up to me and said that her exact words were bill, bill, dad would love that. Thank you so much. Mum's very grateful, which was really cool. You know? And she had another friend with her

18 (42m 20s):
And not too much later, that friend reached out to bill

19 (42m 23s):
And she said he had my auntie needs to see you and she needs to see you. Now here's my number. Please give me a call as soon as you can.

18 (42m 33s):
Oh, wow.

19 (42m 33s):
Yeah. Prior to the funeral, I thought, oh, this is just going to be a one-off thing. And I'm just going to walk away and that it wasn't

18 (42m 43s):
The auntie Christine. She was dying of leukemia and she was secretly in love with her best friend. Carol bill did her funeral and then another. And another enough people started reaching out to bill and he figured he should really pick a name for himself, make this all a bit more official. So he decided on the coffin, confessor bill has done a bunch of confessions at this point. People pay him to do it. And he likes the work tutes him. Bill is a man who is constitutionally opposed to artifice as a private investigator. He sees how messy people's lives really are. So he hates all the pump and rituals, candy coating. Most funerals feels phony.

18 (43m 25s):
He thinks it's better. When people tell the truth, whatever that truth may be. People say, funerals are for the living. Bill thinks that's all wrong. Why shouldn't the dad get a say in how they leave this world? Is there a funeral? People hire a bill to confess all kinds of things. Sometimes it's nice stuff. They just want to tell their family. They love them. One last time, one time a client asked bill to interrupt his funeral, to apologize to his ex wife and tell her how much she meant to him. That one went well. Other times it's something petty.

18 (44m 7s):
Someone wants to literally get the last word. One guy, an atheist hired bill to interrupt his funeral, which he knew his parents would turn into a religious affair against his wishes to say, this is not what I wanted. That one did not go over so well. And occasionally he's asked to reveal something darker, like with this one recent client who hired bill to confess that been having an affair with a neighbor for the past two years, the effect of which would be this guy's wife would learn at his funeral in front of everyone. That he'd been cheating on her in cases like that. Bill encourages the person to maybe say that themselves before they die.

19 (44m 50s):
Obviously when I sit with him and I say to him, does your wife know? No. Are you going to tell her? Well, no, but I'll leave that to you. I mean, obviously I'll say to him, you know, probably be nice coming from you

18 (45m 5s):
And

19 (45m 5s):
He'll say, oh yeah, absolutely.

18 (45m 8s):
And how does that usually go over?

19 (45m 11s):
No, it never goes out. It's just basically, this is what I've written. This is what you're going to do. Do it

18 (45m 17s):
Because it's easier to have you do it.

19 (45m 19s):
Absolutely.

18 (45m 27s):
And all the funerals bills crashed. There's one that sticks with him. This biker guy reached out to bill, said he had cancer and that he was interested in hiring him. So bill drove to the bikers home to meet him. He was this huge muscly guy covered with tattoos.

19 (45m 44s):
Oh, I just told you when he first saw me, he said, you, he said, you're the coffin confessor. I see. Might you got a problem? And he says, no, not yet. I said that guy. So I walk up to the balcony. I sit with him and he goes, well, yeah, you crashed funerals. So I want you to crash mine. Mine will be a barrier. Yeah. In the lawn cemetery. He said, ah, and I want you out that I'm gay. I said, yeah, right. As a joke. And he says, why do I say it as a joke? And I said, okay, let's just say you go. And you guys were all I'm bisexual. And I said, okay, cool.

18 (46m 23s):
A few months later, the biker dies as planned Phil heads to the funeral and waits for his moment to jump in. He stands up midway through the ceremony and reads the letter. He was given

19 (46m 36s):
Hi decades on dead. And you're all still here. Make sure you enjoy what time you have left. Death is a fucking scary adventure. I embraced. It had to really, I don't have much of a choice now, do I? Now that I'm gone, I've got something to tell y'all some of you have known deep down what was suspected. I was bisexual. I was in love with a man. And that man stands amongst you right now. I know you're all looking around, trying to figure out who he is. You're not going to ever know unless he tells you, but I want you to know. I loved him with everything I had.

19 (47m 16s):
Now. It's not David who right now is probably standing up at the back, laughing and looking around. You can all stop looking at David to those who cared for me. I love you guys to those that didn't, I'll see you in it's time for me to visit past family and friends said, live well, ride safe and be true to yourself. That's something I wasn't, but we show was.

18 (47m 48s):
And so easy to not say the thing you want to say to go for years, even a lifetime, not finding the right words at the right moment. Sometimes the right moment is the last one. One final thing to shout over your shoulder into the party. As you're walking out the door

1 (48m 16s):
Veeva to Cornfeld is one of the producers of our show Act for a funny thing happened when we were already at the theater. This last story is a counterexample of sorts where he'd be forgiven for thinking, did somebody have to do something? Or anyway, that's what a lot of people thought in this case, Hannah Joffey wall has the story.

18 (48m 41s):
Here's what happened. A group of people went to a movie theater near Los Angeles to see the last city. It was a 7:00 PM showing, but the projector was broken. So everyone in the audience was stuck waiting 10 minutes, 20. And then a woman from the audience walked down to the front of the theater in front of everyone and started doing stand-up.

20 (49m 5s):
I am a single mom,

18 (49m 8s):
Any single moms in the house. She says, there's short clips of this online. She's in a beach dress, long, straight hair. Weaving her arms all over the place, trying to project her voice to the back of the theater. The act is chaotic and hard to follow. She's pretty all over the place.

20 (49m 26s):
I believe in Buddha, Jesus was never married.

18 (49m 29s):
She does voices. She champs And she sings. These are people who showed up to see Sandra Bullock and Channing Tatum roam around in the jungle. Instead they got this. Their tweets from audience members who are not happy about that switch. One of them says a woman has decided to try her stand-up out on us. It's not good. Another one says, I want to crawl out of my skin and die.

18 (50m 11s):
In one of the videos posted online. You can hear someone in the audience actually interrupt her act to yell, put us out of our misery

20 (50m 21s):
Misery hall,

18 (50m 23s):
The woman's response. This is what got me. She says, Do you want to come down here and try to entertain people as if entertaining everyone in this theater was a job. Someone obviously had to do so walk me through the thinking of nominating yourself to be the one to do that.

22 (50m 45s):
I'm just very outspoken. Like I have no problem talking to people. I don't get nervous. And when a crowds. So I just felt like nobody else was going to, so I might as well try to, you know, communicate with everyone.

18 (50m 56s):
The woman's name is Tiffany King. She's 42 years old, Latina lives in Los Angeles. She has one eight year old daughter. She does many things. Waitresses sings. She does college online and sometimes does stand up. And the way Tiffany King ended up performing unsolicited comedy that night, there's the story on the internet. And then there's her story, which is different. Tiffany says she took her daughter to the movies that night.

22 (51m 23s):
So we got there and the movie wasn't starting. And I was getting only annoyed. I was getting annoyed because my daughter has school the next day. And I'm like, okay, when is this begin to start?

18 (51m 33s):
Everyone was just sitting around. Tiffany says waiting. So she turns to her daughter and says, wouldn't it be funny if I go introduce the movie, like I'm with the theater, do it. Her daughter says, so Tiffany gets up in front of everyone. Hello, welcome to the theater. We're so glad to have you. The show will be starting shortly. And then she says, just kidding, I'm a comedian, but I do hope you all have a good night and she sits down, but then they're still waiting and waiting and nobody's doing anything. So Tiffany gets up again, decides I'm going to go find out what's going on. She goes down to the lobby. A guy tells her the projector's broken. They're working on it. She told them we're sweating like crazy in there.

18 (52m 15s):
The guy says they'd work on the AC. Then Tiffany says she went back to the theater and walked up front just to tell everyone what was going on. She said the projector's broken. They're working on it. They know we're hot in here. They'll try to get the AC back.

22 (52m 30s):
And then there was a Latino couple on the front and the guy goes, oh, Hey, if you're comedian, can you tell some jokes? And I was like, sure. And I know I don't even remember hesitating because I like to help. And like, it makes me happy to make people happy. So I was like, okay.

18 (52m 44s):
And what did it feel like when you started telling jokes?

22 (52m 47s):
Honestly, I was just pulling random clean jokes. I was just trying to string together some clean jokes. It would not be inappropriate for my daughter.

18 (52m 55s):
So she went with a truly random collection of jokes. And from Tiffany's perspective, it was going fine. People were laughing, clapping,

22 (53m 3s):
And everything was going. Everything felt great until the girl hugged me.

18 (53m 8s):
She

22 (53m 8s):
Was like, please no, put us out of her memory.

18 (53m 11s):
It was only the next day that Tiffany learned. Some of her audience had not appreciated being subjected to an unwanted comedy show. But for me, knowing that Tiffany started as a person who is trying to deliver information about the movie. Doesn't that change things like she was the one person trying to get answers to a problem that a whole room full of people shared. She was trying to pass on information and it turned into this because this is who Tiffany is. Here's what I was thinking. When Tiffany recounted this experience to me, I was thinking about when I was at the airport and I was instructed to stand in a line for a desk that had no person at it.

18 (53m 58s):
I stood there anyway, a long line of other people stood there any way to quietly, except for one woman who could not bear it, who was actively loudly, shouting to everyone. And no one walking by that we needed help. I kept looking down like I'm not with her, but I was also glad for her because ultimately she got someone to help us to tell us that we actually needed to go to a different desk, where there was a person where the printer was working and the yelling woman, she led the way we all followed her. My point is the person who takes it upon themselves to do something.

18 (54m 38s):
They don't always do it in the way you would. They're not perfect, but neither are we waiting in line for the desk, with no person or for the movie. That's not starting. When you're sitting in a theater full of people who are not doing anything, does it, is it as mystifying to you that people wouldn't want to do something as it is to someone like me that you would want to do something

22 (55m 7s):
When all this happened? I've flashed back in my mind to a moment in the high school, when I think it was science class, but we had to like go into another room, talk to another class. And I think I sang opera for some reason because I bought it from an early age and my grandmother was mariachi there. And I remember this young guy being like, or this kid, my age being like, damn, Tiffany, you got some balls. So I don't think that the people that didn't do anything think there's anything wrong with them. I just think that we all have a different purpose in life. And I feel that I have a purpose, which is to entertain and to lead people. Sometimes in certain situations, we need people we need go get, or any people that are going to solve problems.

22 (55m 48s):
Right? I was just trying to solve the problem and be helpful. In the moment

18 (55m 53s):
I asked, did she consider that this was a situation where maybe no one needed help, nobody needed to do anything. Tiffany said, no. The thought never crossed her mind, which I think is probably an important part of being a person who rushes to be helpful. A person who acts you can't ask yourself that question.

1 (56m 19s):
Hannah Jeffrey waltz is one of the producers of our show. If you want to find more of Tiffany comedy, you know, that's where she's not completely winging it. And the movie theater on the fly, she has an album coming out. May 1st, you can find out more on her Instagram. It's Tiffany, T I F F a N Y underscore king underscore co medium, C O M E D I U M. And the number seven

23 (56m 56s):
You've been trying with the fight <inaudible>

1 (57m 13s):
Today's program was produced by Lily Sullivan and edited by Ben Calhoun. The people who put our show together include BIM out of wound me on the bakers that we chased. Dana Chivas, Michael commentator, Andrea Lopez Cusato of Eva to Kornfeld on a Duffy wall. Tobin low Michelle Navarro stone Nelson, Catherine Raymondo Wilpon shallowly, Spiegel, or star Chesky Christopher's Patala Tala, Matt Tierney, Julie Whitaker, and Diane Wu managing editor, Sarah Abdi Rachman, senior editor, David Kestenbaum. Our executive editor is Emmanuel buried special. Thanks today to Whitney shifty, Cogentin Rudolph lesser Broca, panko, Christopher Solomon, Brian, Hans, Kate swagger, Allie DeGroote Maggie Stapleton, Eric Dean Wilson, Sam Schiller, Joe Kremmer, Melissa San Miguel, and Stacy king. Our website, this American life.org.

1 (57m 53s):
And this American life is delivered to public radio stations by PRX, the public radio exchange. Thanks, of course, to my boss, I reclassed. When I started working here, I was a nervous and I said to him, I was like, would you prefer, should I call you Mr. Glass? Did I call you IRA? You know? And he's like, no, no, no, no. You can call me I'm Sean Cole. IRA will be back next week with more stories of this American life.

23 (58m 23s):
I've got a <inaudible>

24 (58m 43s):
Next week on the podcast, this American life, we take you to hungry where political parties that normally hate each other's guts banded together to try to defeat somebody they saw as a dictator prime minister, Victor Orban. If you picture AOC joining forces with Mitt Romney, you basically had the idea behind the scenes at their hail Mary pass to save democracy in their country next week on the podcast or on your local public radio station.