0 (1s):
A quick warning. There are curse words that are unbanked in today's episode of the show. If you prefer a beeped version, you can find that at our website, this American life.org,

1 (12s):
WBZ, Chicago, it's this American life.

2 (15s):
Okay. So going down the stairs to walk the dog reluctant to use the elevator today because the right explosions in my area, mostly pretty rare ones, but over the last hour, maybe more frequent,

1 (34s):
And this is recorded in a cave by a woman named Katya. And it takes you into the everyday-ness of this war in this very intimate three-dimensional way. I'll play you a bit more of this price, say more about it.

2 (47s):
And I already have noticed that the best way to know if they are really close is to, you know, observes the birds. If birds start panicking and flying away, that means that explosion is probably relatively close. Oh, here, there was another one I really need to have my dog pee. There is a beep of the door. And so they, I think second of the worst thing, it was February 25th.

2 (1m 30s):
There was shooting that I could hear from three directions. And then when I came home almost immediately, I heard this loud metallic noise and they looked out the window and there was a tank driving along in my building. So there is a, a dig in the ground where Russian tank was driving. And my dog is considering pee on it right now, which is frankly hilarious. But if you go along them, you can clearly see, okay, the birds are flying. I think I will. I will try to head back in direction in general direction of my house. I'm sorry.

2 (2m 10s):
My dog is stubborn. He doesn't want to, he, I think he wants to go poop, Risking my life for you, asshole. No, he's not an asshole. He's a very sweet and kind dog. He's very, very calm about, okay, I'm going home because this one was really loud.

1 (2m 34s):
I actually recorded these for the mice news reports podcast, starting at the beginning of the war. She asked that they, and we not say her last name or what part of the city she's in or what kind of job she does other than it's an education wars personal. We don't usually talk about it that way, but you can't add over 40 million people had started the war and they're just all kinds of ways that they're going through it and all sorts of front lines. Picacho the frontline has been a bunch of different things, but one of them is her decision to stay in key with her parents, her dad's 87, her mom's 73 and both have medical issues.

2 (3m 11s):
My dad has cancer. He's not treatable, basically not treatable anymore. He's also almost completely blind. And so he's basically lying in bed the entire day. Apart from walking along the corridor a little bit and eating and he's listening to right to radio. My mom has diabetes. She also has trouble walking. They are choosing to stay here because they can't just go to the bomb, shelter back and forth all the time. And we're just hoping for the best

1 (3m 51s):
She shops with them, stays up nights to help her dad with whatever he needs at this stage of his own. As she says, he wouldn't be as comfortable anywhere as he is in this apartment. She does a bunch of different stuff in these audio diaries. Like she goes to a tour of their apartment, which includes a stop at this big bag in the hallway with stuff that she's packed, right? If they need to flee

2 (4m 12s):
Inside my bank bag, I have documents. I have some of my closes headlight. I have, I think I have some of my underpins, okay, go in farther. It's from my corridors, there is a spot where asleep because it has walls on one hand and it has big wardrobe on the other. I think it's maybe a part from the bathroom is the best option to survive. In case of blessed,

1 (4m 44s):
There's an audio diary that she does, where her dad is listening to a radio report where people in the radio are explaining what taxes they do and do not need to pay right now that the country is at a state of war. There's one of my Katja notes that before the war, the hallway in her apartment building always smelled like weed. Cause that's where teenagers went to get high, but that hasn't been true since the war. And then she records this one, I guess, for her American listeners.

2 (5m 10s):
Okay. There is an address by the president that was published exactly three minutes ago. So I'm going to watch it

4 (5m 19s):
Sealer naturally army silhouttes Lova in naturally diplomates.

2 (5m 24s):
I know that the landscape is a bit of A sex symbol in the west right now. So I hope this is a bit of an ASR session for you as well. I'm sorry if this was way too harsh of a joke

1 (5m 52s):
<inaudible> is it a bunch of these audio diary entries in one of them, she talks about how they bought some canned dog food for him, which luckily he likes, he's apparently kind of a finicky eater, but now the cans are running out and they're not sure what they're going to find to replace him with

2 (6m 8s):
Today. We gave him one can in the morning and in the evening, my mom said that maybe we should, you know, don't give him like his second meal to spread out, say spread out. You know, the, the food supplies for him that we have. And my dad, he just wanted to eat kaffir, which I don't know if you're familiar with it's a kind of sour milk drink. He drank maybe half of it, maybe a little bit more than half of it. And he just said, give the rest to the dog. And this was heartbreaking.

2 (6m 51s):
My 87 year old, that him in his condition, he given half of his dinner, does a dog. It's just five ration worship, go fuck yourself.

1 (7m 9s):
And a war. The frontline is everywhere. Every place the war touches right now, people are navigating their own small struggles in the shadow of this huge one. And putting together today's show. I thought about studs. Terkel's book, the good war. I don't know if you know this one. He tries to document world war II, but not talking about it as like history with the capital age, but just he does interviews, just these great interviews with all sorts of people who lived through the war today, show it's kind of like that. Anyway, stay with us. Kwan gift Kenyan or neighbors. So one of the things that made us want to do a show of personal stories in this war was reading these diaries that you've gained your Belarus.

1 (7m 53s):
It's has been publishing. She's a writer and photographer and ki, and after the Russians invaded, when she'd go out and take pictures would be told over and over to put away a camera people to know, are you a spy? They don't want to be photographed. So instead you started writing about the interactions that she was having with people and putting them into dish Spiegel magazine cave was nowhere as violent or as dangerous as certain other cities in Ukraine, but everybody was still living in this city that was transformed by the war and figuring out how to deal with that. And the diaries you have getting your says over and over in different ways, is this really happening? Even just a week or two into the war. She writes about how it feels like it's been going on forever.

1 (8m 33s):
So you give us permission to exempt the diaries here, the red first by actress, Ivana sock. Now they begin on February 24th day of the invasion day one and the proceed day by day, day two day three, which is where we'll pick them up

6 (8m 47s):
Day three. My first night in a bomb shelter is one and a half floors, deep underground to be precise and network of corridors and corridors at the dark entrance to our basement. I see the silhouettes of residents scurrying past each other. You can overhear the occasional petty arguments to older shadows pest by two younger ones. Good evening, but evening is not good. The anger wants protest. We wish you a good evening. Anyway, the older one's saying triumphant tone because we mean well, and we will continue to wish it. The shadows disappear into the depths of the cellar.

6 (9m 31s):
As I write it occurs to me that during the day I saw many smiling people. For example, a woman who was sitting in the park on a bench next to two shopping bags, she spoke to me in an absurdly happy voice saying that she was waiting for her nephew to help her carry the bags home. I'm so happy to have you standing next to me. Now, talking to me when there are two of us, I'm less afraid of the artillery. Almost all pharmacies are closed. Electricity, water and heating are under constant threat of failure. The public spaces, squares streets in the city are empty.

6 (10m 13s):
I accompanied a German friend who could not stay in pave to the railway Depot, a journey of 25 minutes, which for me was a walk into another vast reality. Since the beginning of the war, I have not visited shift Chenko Boulevard, a white street leading down to the Depot. We walked along the street and every house, every intersection carried something new and new language, a new narrative about our shared reality. The city looked peaceful. We quickly said goodbye. And I strolled back alone at about the same time peaceful residents of the city of <inaudible> and the south of the country were gathered in front of their local government building, which was occupied by putting this army and guarded by armed soldiers.

6 (10m 58s):
The womans shouted that the soldiers in the Russian, how can you look? Your mothers in the face. You brought war and slaughter into our land. Shame on you. Old people were also in the crowd. There were not afraid. The soldiers looked demoralized. They replied, we came to protect you. The women resisted. They continued to protest. We were never in danger here. There was no threat to us before you came now with you, because of you. We are in the greatest danger, then came Chris' insults, which have a very great graciousness in the Ukrainian and Russian languages.

6 (11m 45s):
Day six. It is the sixth day of the war, which I feel has already lasted 50 years. I went for a walk to breathe some fresh air in this first day of spring, and maybe do some shopping. Knowing that many supermarket shelves were empty. I decided to visit a larger grocery store that had recently opened up far from us, how pleasant it was to be there. The shopping hole is deep underground. Everyone felt safe and walked past the shelves with a slowness that has not been seen in Kiev for six days. On the way back, I took a picture of an old man sitting alone on a bench in the park. He wanted to talk to me. His wife was ill.

6 (12m 25s):
He told me, and he was taking care of her. He wanted to take care of her until tomorrow. Then he will join the key of tutorial defense. He and his wife are 66 years old And his youth, he served in the military. I started thanking him. I couldn't stop as if that would prevent this elderly men caring for a sick wife from risking his life Day nine. I woke up quite early in a bright mood. And with the feeling that the signing day had something to offer me little was left of the melancholy. I felt yesterday.

6 (13m 5s):
Then he discovered the reason for this change. I no longer believe in the war. It simply can't be. I thought it isn't true. What neighboring country bombs the city to rebel in the 21st century. You can't occupy this country. It's unrealistic. The war is a dream, a dictator's fantasy. I wanted to see if the little store next to our house still had bread. I have not been able to get bread. Since the third day of the war. It is usually sold out. The store was full with some amazement. I discovered a group quite took to be representatives of the international military.

6 (13m 50s):
They spoke English and needed help translating. Then I realized that they were not soldiers, but an arm diff well-protected escorts of a war photographer, who was also shopping in the store. I tried to help her choose a detergent, the small group, exuded enthusiasm, humor, and inspiration. My mood suddenly darkened. One of the three escorts proudly said to me, do you know who you're standing with? This is one of the best photographers in the world. And the photographer laughed and shrugged it off, please. She said, I'm embarrassed. Then she told me her name.

6 (14m 31s):
I can't remember the name. I've been having a hard time concentrating lately. And she said, you can follow me on Instagram. The group bought a lot of detergent, almost everything in the store. I told them a good to have you with us and said goodbye, but quickly. And an easiness came over me. I realized that it is not a good sign. When a well-known war photographer sets up shop here. Day 12. I received a utility bill for my cave. Apartment is accompanied by a telegram message. That sounds like an apology.

6 (15m 13s):
We are writing to you with a request. If your financial means, allow under the circumstances, please pay the utilities. Many cave utility workers joined the Ukrainian army and are now fighting for our freedom. However, it is so important to pay the bills. They 17. It was a sleepless night. The air raid alarm sounding its sirens over the city kept me up all night. I was too tired to go to the shelter. I heard explosions and hope that no one was injured. My plan for the day was to pick up my Bulletproof vest, which had finally been delivered.

6 (15m 57s):
Then I would visit a lady who, as a sort of concierge, watches over a house in the neighborhood and keeps an eye on the comings and goings. There are many such concierges in the city, but since the beginning of the war, this lady had taken on an additional task. She must make sure that nothing is stolen from the abandoned apartments. Her name had a comforting bring to it. That reminded me of childhood. DUSA one of the residents from her building who had escaped, had asked me to check in on her, which made her happy because she's alone. No one can relieve her of her watch. She also lives in the building where she works.

6 (16m 38s):
I visited her in her small concierge room on the first floor. There was only space for a table and a sofa. The TV was on. She said so many people are escaping cave, but I have nowhere to go. And her face, I saw helplessness, but she had made her decision to stay. Put. I tried to lighten the mood with some not entirely clever jokes. I was happy that she smiled at me and I decided to visit her again. Soon Day 24 today, an old couple made their way through the wreckage and see trifled in the street. They walked shakily pest shards of broken glass and heaps of rebel.

6 (17m 21s):
This elderly pair who have lived their lives submit undying, declarations of love between Russians and Ukrainians to brotherly peoples did not want to believe that fratricide was in full swing. The man speaking to his wife, he approached an invisible enemy. Look how many windows, how much glass has been smashed Jesus. They haven't thought about the fact that they will have to clean this up. All of this chaos, just to say the Russians did it to us. The man spoke desperately. And with an honest sadness, the woman nodded insight, they walked straight past me on the ground, pigeons, pecked, and breadcrumbs among the shards of glass.

6 (18m 5s):
Despite the damage a woman had come to the marketplace, as she does every day to feed the birds, it was sunny and awfully quiet. The streets felt free and there was a deceptive illusion that along walk was safe. Day 26. I went to the train station with my mother to see if we could get train tickets for ourselves and our relatives. We walked through the old city that my mother had once shown me like a story. When reached to a child, the train station was not as crowded as we expected. All the shops had closed. And the only tickets available were for the evacuation trains. Several of these tickets were standing room only.

6 (18m 46s):
And because some of my relatives have health concerns that keep them from standing. We decided to look for tickets again later, my mother and I walked back down the street and tried to cheer each other up with a few jokes. Then we saw little yellow buses with the red crosses heading toward us in the direction of the train station on each bus was written. It been a place north of Kia for so many artists and writers once lived and more. Now people die every day. Russia's annihilating the small town block by block and the dusty bus windows. We saw the gray, tired faces of old people and children all staring somewhere far away into the distance.

6 (19m 27s):
We stopped and looked. I could not take a photo In the evening. I saw that the train tickets were being sold again without much time to consider it. I bought six tickets for Friday. My parents still don't want to leave Cuba. I really don't know what we should do, but there should be enough time. Before Friday to decide Day 29, a little girl looked at me with a friendly expression. She was coloring the backrest of a wooden bench with a piece of chalk. She tried to tell me something, but she was interrupted by her grandfather who seemed annoyed.

6 (20m 13s):
Listen here. He said to me, in a somewhat brazen voice, I told my daughter let's buy the apartment in Kiev, but you're applied. Nobody wants to live in Kiev with stuffy big city air. We should get a nice apartment under the green trees and butcher outside of Kiev and being the foolish person. I am. I agreed. He looked at me reproachfully as if I were the one who had persuaded him to buy an apartment in a pleasant suburb. Now smothered in fire rockets and mortar shells. I didn't even want to talk to him first, but he called out to me and asked to walk a few steps in his direction. It was already evening.

6 (20m 54s):
Some the curfew would begin. The air raid alarm had just sounded. And I thought I only had a few minutes for a little conversation, but then the men mentioned Boucher. And all of a sudden I decided to spend as much time with them as they wanted the girl who was about six years old, told me in a serious voice for two weeks, we lived in the basement. We were 21 adults and seven children. The grandfather still seemed angry with me. I come from a city where most people speak crushing. I come from Neupro, but part of our family lives here in Bhutan in QI of two weeks in the basement with only water, some food, almost no heating and barely any electricity, constant shelling, especially when we tried to sneak a little fresh air.

6 (21m 44s):
And then they found us. The Russians came to us in the cellar and explained no, they barked that they had come to <inaudible> us. If I were not 70 years old, I answered them. I would rather throw you out than talk to you. Don't speak to me. Not even for a second. At the end, he got so furious that he said to me, you should go there to butcher. If you were there, you wouldn't look at me like that. You would understand everything. And here in Kiev, nothing has been made clear Today.

6 (22m 25s):
My childhood friend lost his family home early in life. I used to visit his house all the time. I tried to remember the rooms. I recall the traditional living room of a small house with a low ceiling. I resplendent cabinet with old photos behind a glass shelf and the meals my friend's grandmother used to prepare for us. This memory is not accompanied by any feeling

5 (22m 53s):
And

6 (22m 55s):
Day 30. My relatives went to leave cave. We had already planned our exit, but as the day of departure, ruthlessly approached, they had more and more complaints and objections here in KF, where every day you come across friends, acquaintances, and strangers, you end up helping you manage somehow to bear the unbearable news and events. We decided to postpone our departure for a few days and perhaps prepare a little better on the way back from the train station. My mother and I met two people from the military who were sitting in front of a grocery store, drinking coffee. They showed us a picture of a boy who was only 14 years old, posing in a uniform next to some soldiers were going to our military positions today to fetch him.

6 (23m 41s):
One of the soldiers explained he followed his father and wants to fight shoulder to shoulder with him. But he's too young. They have clearly lost everything, their house, their family, and now all he wants us to fight. We understand of course, but cannot allow it. They were obviously proud both of this mission and this voice determination. They smiled with a little bit of tenderness and their good mood even infected us.

1 (24m 20s):
Ivana. Sakana reading the diaries of you're getting a Bella crusades. She got out of Ukraine on day 41, April 4th. We first started diaries and the website ISA Larry you're getting is diarrhea is being published as part of a new book called in the face of war. You can find links to all of that as well as does some of you have gained, use photography at our website, this American life.org, Coming up, say your friend's a Russian soldier being sent into Ukraine. What do you say to him? Exactly. It's in a minute. I'm Chicago public radio. When our program continues this American life, Myra glass today's program, the other front lines stories of the many ways that people are going through the war in Ukraine.

1 (25m 3s):
We have arrived at act two of our program at two Luna chia and the escape. So for years before this war, Ukraine had been in destination for foreign students, get some Nigeria, Morocco, China, ISER by John Turkey, India. The tuition is affordable. It's relatively easy to get a visa. You can study in English. So when the war started, 77,000 foreign students, just a ton of people had to figure out what to do. Alexis Oko is a reporter who was based in Lagos' for a few years. And over the last few weeks they've been hearing about Nigerian students trapped in Ukraine, black students blocked at the border, unable to escape to the rest of Europe. Alexis also knew what an education in Ukraine had meant to those students.

1 (25m 45s):
For lots of them, it was the one chance to get a degree back home in Nigeria, right? Nearly enough seats in schools to everybody who wants them. If you do get in your studies can be interrupted by long teacher strikes. Alexis wanted to talk to the students, but what they were going through

7 (26m 1s):
Over the last month, as I read about the racism, international students, especially African ones we're facing, as they try to leave Ukraine, I felt angry and sad and curious, who are these kids caught in a war and what have their lives been like in Ukraine? What would they be? Now?

8 (26m 20s):
When I went to Yukon, it was a very beautiful place. It was like every, like every, everything is like organized.

7 (26m 29s):
This is moon Nachi naughty. He arrived in Ukraine last summer. Muna G is someone at ease with himself gentle the really big smile. And he's a person who likes to plan things to be in order. For instance, one thing he mentioned that he first noticed in Ukraine was how the cars were parked in straight lines. Out of all the Nigerian students, I spoke with Luna. She had the most clarity about what he wanted to do with his life and why he was in Ukraine. He wanted to be a doctor and then work in the United States, the UK or Switzerland When Wenatchee landed in Ukraine and I in Jan representative from his new university, picked them up.

7 (27m 12s):
They played Bob Marley as they drove through the city.

8 (27m 16s):
And it was so beautiful, like, you know, different people, the color and everything, the waterfalls, it was so beautiful, like new things. To me,

7 (27m 27s):
A lot of things were new moon, not managed to get an apartment with other Nigerians and the Southern city of Odessa, but he didn't know where to exchange money. A friend invited him to join a group chat on telegram called Nigerian students. Ukraine. It's a big group over 1009 Jerianne's are in it, reading through the messages. I was reminded they're college students trying to learn how to be adults. They're just kids. Even though Manati doesn't like me to call him, then Members helped each other find jobs and Nigerian restaurants. Do you have dollars?

7 (28m 8s):
And you need Grebner DME. Who's in for a shared apartment in Kharkiv. A of, if you're looking for an unserious relationship, please just DM me. Single ladies, only me job needed in Kharkiv. Anyone available or knows anyone to help, please? Are you interested in a modeling shooting kief, please send your picture for number and age. If you're interested, Muna cheese settled in, started learning Ukrainian. I asked him what he did for fun.

8 (28m 42s):
Well, actually, to be harnessed, like the parts I enjoy most is like being in school, Being in school and doing what I love. I love. And that taught me that's my first right. Is very interesting. Like, you know, every day is getting interesting. You get to know human body organs and all the rest. And I love it. You know, I go to libraries. I feel free. Yeah. I feel very free to do whatever I want.

7 (29m 17s):
What he wanted to do was study the thing he'd always wanted to do, be a medical student. Where are you going to parties? Where you dating?

8 (29m 27s):
No.

7 (29m 29s):
Why not?

8 (29m 30s):
Well, cause there's a saying like student, like medical students, they say study now and love later.

7 (29m 41s):
I love. Okay. How old are you again? When at T

8 (29m 47s):
23 now.

7 (29m 49s):
Okay. Okay. Six months after moon Nachi arrived in Ukraine in January people and the Nigerian student chat began asking what's up with the Russians Muna CI's phone buzzed constantly with notifications. He'd sometimes wake up to hundreds of Ms. Messages in the group. Hi, please. Any more info about the war? They're trying to resolve it. Diplomatically. I don't know if it's true or not true. True. I don't believe this because of Putin is waiting for marsh lands to get frozen. That means he will wait till another winter. And this one is basically over people just be putting fear in others.

7 (30m 31s):
Stay safe though. Damn, I like your analysis girl. Very apt. All I came here to do was study. I feel your pain, bro, laughing and bone G laughing, emoji, anybody get malaria drugs. Russians only move their army closer shit. Didn't happen. Find way, move to Western part of Ukraine and stay there. The west is already boarded by Russian soldiers through Bella ruse. That's the north Northeast. Oh, well bro, everybody done turned geographer.

8 (31m 5s):
I was like telling all the students like, whoa, you guys don't need to panic. Like I don't believe that will be war. We don't need to spread panic. And just because the school told us not to spread panic, like I was telling them to chill. Let's get every information from the school.

7 (31m 24s):
But moon Archie says there was almost no information from the school or from the Nigerian embassy very quickly. The chat turned from looking for flatmates to trying to escape war. Is it just me that her though sounds yes. Just now hearing Keef. Me too. Am hearing the same sounds though. Boom, boom. If you see the last one, shake my window. I heart first stop. Stay safe. My brothers guys, real missile. I'm hearing something from my hostel. Even the ambassador of Nigeria has gone back home borders.

7 (32m 4s):
No safe again, guys, please. Which way now I'm scared. I'm fucking scared. Find your way to Poland and leave. Please. Would they allow us to enter Poland? They accept Ukrainians. Now how can we get from Levine to keep everything is down fastest way as Metro. But to my knowledge, that is also down <inaudible> was reading these messages, but he kept coming up with reasons why he couldn't leave yet. He needed to buy chicken, eggs, tomatoes, apples, juice, milk, and ice cream to fill his fridge.

7 (32m 47s):
Then he couldn't leave because he had a fridge full of food. He still thought maybe the war would pass. But overall we're not GE says he didn't leave because it would mean abandoning his plan. He wanted to follow the rules, look to an authority for direction. Then there was an explosion at Odessa Seaport. So when NACI took a train to Levine, then he went to the platform for the train to Poland, where he found other Africans waiting in the crowd. But the conductor and a police officer were not letting black people onto the train. He watched us. Some of them started arguing with the officer, blocking the door.

8 (33m 26s):
Well, I was going on. Why? You know, letting us in, this is not good. This is bad. You want us to die? You know, the police was like, wait, wait, wait. We are still waiting. Like

7 (33m 37s):
Some Africans forced themselves into the train, but munafiki was told to wait. So he waited until the conductor closed the doors and the train with empty seats left without him.

8 (33m 50s):
Yeah. And there was a lot of people. So I gave up,

7 (33m 55s):
He got a taxi with other Africans to drive to the Polish border. But at a certain point, the traffic just stopped moving. So he walked for more than an hour to the crossing and stood in line.

8 (34m 7s):
So when it gets to my tone, they, the border, the border, God told me to go back.

7 (34m 14s):
And how, how long had you been waiting?

8 (34m 17s):
I've been waiting for like maybe two hours. Yeah. And I told me to go back,

7 (34m 24s):
What did you say? How did you react?

8 (34m 25s):
I just, I just go back.

7 (34m 28s):
You didn't say why.

8 (34m 33s):
I didn't know what to say. Just go back. I was like, I don't want to feel so embarrassed. I just go back. It was a very, it was so embarrassing.

7 (34m 44s):
We, so when you say that word, embarrassing, what do you mean by it?

8 (34m 49s):
For example, in the midst of crowd and others are going in and you are restricted from going in, people will look at you. I felt like I want to cry. You know, at that point I feel like I wanted to cry. I feel like, wow, this is wow. I felt so bad. So I said, okay, let me go back. Let me go back

7 (35m 23s):
At the back of the line lunette. She met some Africans and an Indian man who said the border guards were going to let them die in Ukraine. The man advised moon Archie to try to get someone with a car, to take him across. We're not, you saw, there were long lines of cars passing through. He began hailing them down and asking for a ride, politely, pleadingly. He even offered to pay.

8 (35m 49s):
I was like, maybe you have a, it's not easy your car. I know. But you know, you need to understand. It just happens. You almost there just drive us saying something like that. And we just came in pace

7 (36m 1s):
And they, a lot of them said, no. Yeah.

8 (36m 3s):
All of them said, no, no, no. It felt so bad. And the way they say it like too hot, you know? No, not everyone the same.

7 (36m 16s):
No one wanted to help.

8 (36m 18s):
Yeah.

7 (36m 20s):
Was this surprising to you that so many Ukrainians were saying no, no, no, no.

8 (36m 27s):
To me first I was thinking it was a very easy something for people to do in, in this kind of situation. My teachers are Ukrainian Sandia, so friendly and nice George. Yeah. I actually thought maybe I'll find, I'll find my teacher like, oh my God she'll help me or something or he'll help me. Something like that. I was, I was only, I was only like wishing to see someone that I know that would just help me. I have to go back. Maybe find a place to stay then tomorrow I might try again.

8 (37m 8s):
So I had to walk back again

7 (37m 11s):
An hour.

8 (37m 13s):
Yeah. An hour. It was so fun. But I felt I was so I was so sad. So it was very easy for me. Cause I was sad. I was sad. I was so sad. Like I wasn't even looking at anybody's face. I hit the everyone at that moment. What do I have to do? I don't know what to do. Like it was already 12 F in the night and it was so cold. So cold. Like, oh my God,

7 (37m 56s):
<inaudible> says that on his walk back. He remembers that he stopped feeling like himself, his entire world, everything he thought he knew about Ukraine was thrown into chaos. Nothing was organized. The Ukrainians, he lived among Grinnell treating him like an alien, even an enemy because he wasn't the right color. We're not, she saw himself one way. Hard-working quiet, friendly and soon realize during the worst moments of his life that others were seeing him in a very different way. The people who wouldn't give him a ride who wouldn't let them cross the border to them, his life seemed to be worth less than He finally reaches a hotel.

7 (38m 41s):
But the clerk says there are no rooms, but this time we're not. She did not just accept what he was told. We're not. She calls his cousin in the United States. His cousin gets a friend who speaks Ukrainian to talk to the hotel clerk. And the friend is able to book a room over the phone. So how come there were suddenly a room?

8 (39m 3s):
That's the big question? Well, you know, I gave the lady a very big smile and like, God, like finally like, oh you see

7 (39m 20s):
The next day <inaudible> tried again. He made his way back to the border and could finally cross to Poland less than a week later. He moved on to Berlin. I was in Berlin last month as thousands of refugees from Ukraine came through central station and went on to various hostels. The Ukrainians I talked to told me they had no plans. They just wanted their home to be safe again. So they could return as soon as possible. But the foreign students like <inaudible> are in a different situation. Ukrainian citizens can get temporary residents in the European union. Foreign students cannot, even though they're living alongside Ukrainian refugees, they just fled the same war.

7 (40m 6s):
The students either have to go back to their home countries or hope that the countries they fled to will allow them to stay and finish. The educations they came for Nachi is currently in his third hostel in Germany. He's been sharing a room with another refugee, learning another new language and waiting to hear if the German government will let him stay in the country. He and other international students, they're having until August to get accepted to a German school and prove they have at least 10,000 euros to pay for a year of living costs. Otherwise they will be required to leave that's money. A lot of students don't have. We're not. She is trying to finish up this year as classes online, but it hasn't been easy.

7 (40m 51s):
He left a school books in Poland. It's still surreal that he's even in this situation. The 1000 people and the Nigerian students group chat are now scattered, but people are still posting checking in on one another and helping each other, figure out their next steps please. Who is in Poland here? I have my dog stocked and Levine. It can be sent to you so you can help me give it to someone coming to Nigeria, please. I don't want them to die. Hello? Cause they don't want to gotten into Ireland between yesterday and today.

7 (41m 32s):
Most countries are closing their now anybody know anyone or news from France or they deporting people in France. Anybody in Belgium, what's the update. People hope you all are safe. It's an uneasy. Limbo. These students are in in order to finish their degrees in Europe. They're signing up for an immediate future and moving from place to place of starting all over again. And again, here's what we notch is thinking about.

8 (42m 3s):
I asked myself, oh, what does it feel like to be a wall student? What are you flying dog? The, what would I be doing in a situation like this? If, if, if I, if my help is needed, something like that, I don't know if you understand.

7 (42m 23s):
I do understand we're not chia spinning through all the identities. He's both imagined for himself and experience medical student, doctor and now student during war time. But I noticed there was one word he wasn't using. Do you feel like refugee?

8 (42m 43s):
This is the feelings I don't want to have. Even when you say like me as a refugee, I was like trying to Dodge it. So you harness? Yes. Like my friend told me like, oh bro, we are not refugees. Like when we came here I said, no, bro, maybe you will not meet.

7 (43m 3s):
Well. What, why, why do you not feel like a refugee?

8 (43m 7s):
Don't want to feel like

7 (43m 9s):
Right? You don't want to,

8 (43m 12s):
Well, what if I don't want to be a refugee and I want to stay in the country? Ah, Yeah. That's why we cannot control

7 (43m 23s):
These students are different than Ukrainian refugees. They still have homes in Nigeria to which they can return. The going back would be going backwards for them. It would be giving up on how far they've come. So they're fighting to protect their identity as students and as people worthy of respect and dignity. But as black people displaced by war, even a European one, they have lost all of that.

1 (43m 56s):
Alexis Oko is a staff writer for the new Yorker where they first wrote about foreign students in Ukraine. <inaudible> okay. So in Russia, lots of people's relationships have become their own personal frontlines. Ashley Cleek has been seeing this talking with a bunch of young Russians who are against the war. Ashley's been reporting on the war for the vice news reports podcast. She used to live in Russia. One of the Russians that she'd been talking to about this is Alyona twenty-five year old protestor who lives in Moscow. He's been trying make sense out of one of her oldest friendships, because it's so sensitive to speak about the war in Russia.

1 (44m 36s):
Right now we have changed some of the names in this story. Here's Ashley,

11 (44m 41s):
The friendship Eliana has been struggling with it's with her friend Alek. When I asked her why she's friends with him, she kind of doesn't understand the question. It's just one of the fundamental facts of her life. She and Alek are friends because they've always been friends. They met when they were seven or eight in the tiny village hours, east of Moscow. It's where I learned. I would spend summers with her grandmother. They were outside friends roaming around in a little pack together

13 (45m 13s):
So we would steal apples from the neighbors, went out to beat the grass with sticks, rode our bikes a lot. I don't know, tease the goats, stuff like that.

14 (45m 26s):
So could you explain like beating the grass with sticks? Like I just kind of, I don't totally understand

12 (45m 33s):
That <inaudible> Napoleon.

13 (45m 37s):
Well, you know, so when the grass grows really tall in the field, we would just go out into the field and hit the grass with our state.

12 (45m 45s):
Cool. <inaudible>

13 (45m 52s):
I'm sure that somewhere out in the farms where you are children do the exact same thing

11 (45m 58s):
As the grew up and spread out across the country. I learned it to college or like to the military academy, they stayed really close. I don't always like toast, simple and positive oligo outlook was nothing seemed to bother him whenever I do. And I was stressed or angry about something, talking to Oleg would always make it feel like less of a big deal. And they were teenagers, Russia, annexed, Crimea. This was 2014. I didn't want to say she and Alek and everyone they knew or watching a lot of TV. And she remembers this feeling of euphoria that Russia was doing the right thing, defending ethnic Russians in Crimea. And it had an effect on both of them. Eliana thought about becoming a doctor in the military and she thinks this is one reason Alek joined the army.

11 (46m 43s):
But then in 2019, I don't know, went on a trip to Crimea and it totally changed her mind about what had happened. She was hitchhiking with a friend talking to a lot of Crimeans and the story they told was completely different from what she knew, the annexation had been awful

13 (47m 7s):
There was this one woman that we had to ride with who took us all the way to <inaudible>.

11 (47m 12s):
And this friend asked her about some graffiti he'd seen in Russia back in 2014 that said Crimea is ours,

12 (47m 19s):
Not the Sheila requirement chats.

13 (47m 23s):
And she has started literally yelling at us being like, what do you mean Crimea is yours when it's ours, it belongs to the people who actually live there. And that made a really big impression on me.

12 (47m 34s):
<inaudible> yeah. <inaudible>

13 (47m 38s):
I came away with a sense that I had made a huge mistake and that I had been thinking of really wrongly for a really long time.

11 (47m 48s):
This was the first big crack. And what Aliana had believed when she came back from Crimea, she started going to protest against the government and hearing about how Putin came to power by the crimes. His government had committed her entire world changed and she wanted to tell everyone,

12 (48m 5s):
Yeah <inaudible>

13 (48m 7s):
I was living with the conviction that I had just been living with my eyes closed before that. And now that I had my eyes open, I wanted everyone else in the world to open their eyes to

11 (48m 19s):
Including Alek. And he listened. He didn't agree with her, but he was nice about it.

13 (48m 24s):
Well, I just said, that's fine. That's your choice

11 (48m 31s):
Oh, thanks. Joyce was different. He believed the propaganda, what he saw on TV. So he stuck with what the government said, by the way, I reached out to Alek for this story and didn't hear back, but he knows through Aliana that we're telling it. And he told her he's okay with it. I don't know what to talk about. Our changing politics and Oleg would disagree, but it never felt like a big deal until this year in January, Oleg was on leave from the military and he came through Moscow,

12 (49m 0s):
Bula <inaudible>

13 (49m 4s):
And he had a few hours before his flight. And we went down to the airline office to get his ticket. And then we hung out at my house, drinking tea and talking. And that was when he told me that there was going to be a war in Ukraine. And I was like, Alexa, please. There's not going to be a war. And I started telling him the stuff from the Steven Pinker book, that global violence is going down. That globally, there is less and less crime. There's less murder, less war. That's what all the political scientists say. And he's just like, well, I hope you're right. And that night we said goodbye to each other. And after that, it all began

11 (49m 47s):
February 24th, Russia invades Ukraine. And you want to call Oleg. And Alyssa says, yes, soldiers are being sent, but he's on the list. And the owner immediately joins the protest in Moscow. Ariana is categorically against this war. She decides to get the now famous phrase, Russian worship, go fuck yourself, tattooed across her ribs. It's your first tattoo. And then in the middle of March Olag messages, their group chat. Aliana pulls it up to read it to me

12 (50m 22s):
At the <inaudible> you have so the curator.

13 (50m 26s):
And he said, well, it looks like I'm actually leaving next to me today. And I'm only going to have a dumb phone with me when I get there. So I'm not gonna be able to send you anything over telegram. I love you all goodbye. And our friend was like, where exactly are they sending you? And he said, they're sending me to the hot zone.

11 (50m 51s):
And the owner writes back. We all love you and calls him. She wants to know exactly where he's going and what he'll be doing

16 (50m 59s):
E you just go forward the marina.

13 (51m 3s):
And then he told me that he was probably going to go to a stove or maybe even somewhere closer just to pick up the bodies of the dead, the casualties. I was like, promise me that you're not going to go fight in this war for me, him going to get the bodies was okay. As long as he didn't go fight. And he said, I can't promise you that.

17 (51m 27s):
How did you, how did you feel? How was that for you?

13 (51m 34s):
Well, I just completely freaked out. I was just yelling at him. I don't even remember what I was yelling and I was just screaming into my phone and he was completely silent.

11 (51m 44s):
And the owner tries to convince him not to go that since it's not an officially declared war, he can defect without getting in trouble. She's looking for a way out for him, but he doesn't want one. She remembers yelling that she was going to come to his army base and break all his fingers. By the end of the call, she's calmed down accepted that this is what's happening. She can't change it. But that evening as the reality of what's happening, settles in that there's no way Olag can go to war and not harm someone and the know swings back into a state of impotence and rage.

13 (52m 19s):
I got so wasted that night at a bar that I was probably screaming loud enough for everybody in the bar to hear me that my friend was going to go fight in this war. And it would be better if he just died. If he doesn't die, he'll come back and I'll know that he's a murder. That he's a criminal

11 (52m 46s):
And the owner is not sure if she ever wants to talk to him again. So many people I've talked to in Russia are going through something like this right now, having their fundamental relationships get ripped up by this for several of my friends, no longer talk to their parents. One of my friends whose response to this war was to threaten, to burn his passport. His father called him a Nazi and he doesn't know how to get over that.

16 (53m 20s):
We haven't looked for a <inaudible>

13 (53m 23s):
I was coming home from and I was going up the escalator and the subway.

11 (53m 30s):
I talked to Eliana a few weeks later

13 (53m 32s):
And you know, I got a phone call and I didn't even suspect who it was, you know? And I was already kind of pissed off because I actually hate it when people call me.

16 (53m 42s):
Yeah, yeah. The roots <inaudible>.

13 (53m 46s):
And then when I took out my phone and I saw that it was Olag. I, I mean, I don't even have the words to describe what I felt.

11 (53m 54s):
This was two weeks after he'd left. And now the owner is relieved just to hear his voice again, all that anger that she'd felt so intensely towards him in that moment disappeared.

13 (54m 7s):
I got up to the top of the escalator and I was just pacing around in the subway station asking him totally banal questions. Like, what are you eating? What are you drinking? How's the weather just completely like silly things.

14 (54m 24s):
H how did he answer? What did he tell you?

12 (54m 27s):
No, <inaudible>

13 (54m 31s):
When I asked him how he was sleeping, he told me he wasn't sleeping well. And I was, you know, started telling him stuff like, oh man, your sleep is so important for your mental health. And you have to try to sleep well. And he just laughed at me. And he was like, can you imagine how hard it is to sleep in Ukraine right now,

11 (54m 49s):
After that call, they keep texting. Eventually his unit is moved from somewhere around Kiev to Bellaruse and there he's more free to talk. They video chat every few days during one call, all lectures, these details about the war and a crime. He's heard a Russian soldier has committed. Suddenly their calls cut off. After that, they decide they shouldn't talk about the war because they're probably being monitored. So they stick to basic stuff, food by their tuck into Eliana. These past weeks has been like watching a pendulum swing back and forth. She started off with such intense feelings of fury and helplessness. She wants cried on a call, but now she's swinging last.

11 (55m 29s):
All the feelings are still there. They're just smaller on our way to work. She does these small protests. She ties green ribbons and tree branches. She writes no war and black Sharpie and her benches. And she still chats with her friend, a Russian soldier. And then the news from Buddha comes out. Hundreds of civilians have been killed. The photos, as many of you know are awful. There are dead bodies in the streets in gardens, falling from bicycles for Aliana. There was one picture in particular that made her whole body turn cold. It was ever a woman's hand. Lifeless Aliana remembered the perfect manicure. One nail painted with a tiny heart.

13 (56m 12s):
What was going through their heads that they could have done that.

12 (56m 16s):
You want to see what role

13 (56m 17s):
It's unbearable to even think about how you're the same species as people who were capable of doing like that

14 (56m 25s):
In when you, when you saw, when you saw it, when you heard about it, did you, did you think about Aleg

13 (56m 41s):
It's just really hard to put into words

11 (56m 46s):
After Bouchet Alona says it was harder to talk to Olag. She asked him if he was part of anything like that. He said no, but then he denied. It was even happening. He tried to convince her that it was all a lie.

12 (56m 59s):
Yeah. <inaudible>

13 (57m 3s):
When I asked a lot of about Boucher, he immediately was telling me that this was a false flag that the Ukrainian army had done it themselves. I just kept saying, and still saying that Boucher was faked and that nothing like that happened, where he was either.

11 (57m 22s):
And this it infuriated Aliana hade recently told her how he had heard of a soldier committing crimes and can civilians. And now here he was parroting. The government's propaganda, that thing she used to love about him, his refusal to be bothered by anything. It now made her sick. As I've known, it tells me about this conversation though. I could hear her softening giving him the benefit of the doubt, the benefit of friendship. Part of her would really like to imagine that maybe old, like doesn't even believe what he's saying to her, but that he has to say it.

13 (57m 54s):
It's very possible that he's just like telling me what they tell him to tell people

11 (58m 2s):
Their friendship used to be so easy. Now it has the weight of a war attached to it. I don't know if it survives this. It seems like despite all of Illumina's efforts, there's been an irreversible change, but Aliana is pushing back against it. She's holding onto this imaginary future where Oleg will come back a different person. That'll grow to see things more her way, less like that. Have a beautiful party line soldier, maybe go to therapy.

13 (58m 28s):
And that's what I'm invested in. And that's why I'm continuing my relationship with him.

14 (58m 34s):
And what if he doesn't become that kind of person?

12 (58m 38s):
No. Yeah. <inaudible> The way you <inaudible> yesterday.

13 (58m 47s):
I am not going to give up or let me put it like this. If I start thinking about how the war is not going to end how Russia is not going to retreat from Ukraine, how people are never going to face up to what they've done and acknowledged their mistakes. I'm not going to be able to function. And so I can't think that way,

11 (59m 6s):
I only just got news that all legs been sent back into Ukraine when he returned from the war, though, she's determined to stay his friend. And then she hopes someday, maybe in 20 or 30 years, they'll finally be able to talk about what really happened in the war.

1 (59m 33s):
Ashley clique. She's a producer for vice news reports, which is a weekly podcast by vice audio, with lots of reporting on the war in Ukraine, that dives deeply into people's personal stories. What program is produced today by our executive editor, Emmanuel Berry, and by Diane Wu people put together today's show include Chris bender. Ben Calhoun, Zoe chase, Sean Cole, Michael cometary, Andrea Lopez.

1 (1h 0m 16s):
<inaudible> Rudy Lisa <inaudible>, Michelle Navarro, Stowe Nelson, Katherine Raymondo Marissa Robertson, texturally Spiegel, Robin Semyon, Gar stir Chesky, Lily Sullivan. Christopher's Futaba. I had Matt Tierney, our managing editors Sohrob drop-in our senior editors, David custom bow rushing interpretation by Bella Ridge editing help from Bethel Hobday special. Thanks today to Sam Greenspan, Sam Egan and Kate Osborn. The vice news reports podcast, where you can hear more of Katia is audio diaries from cave that we heard at the beginning of the show. Hatch's dad followed go mirror. As she talked about in the excerpts, we played die last Monday. Thanks. Also today that eBay Elvis <inaudible> equim Chama, Benjamin Dewey, Sammy Beck, Kevin Kainos, Catarina Eggman, Dana balut, Helen Davidson, Anthony Kune, and Angela Moshe Salazar.

1 (1h 1m 4s):
Our website, this American life.org, where you can stream our archive of over 750 episodes for absolutely free. Also there's videos. There's lists of favorite programs. There are tons of other stuff there again. This American life.org. This American life is delivered to public radio stations by PRX, the public radio exchange. Thanks as always to a program's co-founder Mr. Terry mallet, Tia, you know, most nights, he just sits in his easy chair, sipping a white car, watching his favorite Allie Wong now, and nanny talks to the television.

7 (1h 1m 35s):
Damn, I like your analysis girl. Very act

1 (1h 1m 39s):
AmeriGas back next week with more stories of this American life. Next week on the podcast of this American life, a guy reached out to us saying I have this crazy story.

18 (1h 2m 7s):
And today is about to be like a million times crazier two weeks ago, my life was normal working for Amazon. I was a normal person

1 (1h 2m 16s):
And another producer got a LinkedIn message saying, if you could give me even minutes, a third producer got a voicemail saying our fact checker could confirm everything.

19 (1h 2m 24s):
Basically I became a multimillionaire over the last week and a half, which is insane in the story, like so much crazier than when I'm you can say.

1 (1h 2m 33s):
So I gave him a call, which led me with him on a quest next week and podcast. When your local public radio station.