0 (0s):
This podcast is supported by Amazon. According to the department of labor, only 23% of us workers have access to paid parental leave. It's even less for hourly workers. Amazon is proud to provide up to 20 weeks of fully paid leave for hourly employees like Elizabeth, who welcomed her first child last summer,

1 (18s):
They didn't have to worry about my pain. I was able just to solely focus on being a new mom

0 (25s):
Learned about how Amazon supports hourly employees, who are parents@amazon.com slash 20 weeks. That's amazon.com/two zero weeks.

2 (35s):
This American life WBZ Chicago, I'm here a glass. So there's a whole infrastructure that Springs into action. When a mass shooting happens, there's the police and SWAT teams. Of course the red cross, the Billy Graham prayer truck therapy dogs. And there's this couple who shows up this couple, whose daughter died in a mass shooting and they come and what they do, it seems to be very effective. I don't need to tell you that our government has utterly failed at any kind of response to stop school shootings and mass shootings in the wake of that, that nothingness, that, that non-response parents of children who've died have stepped in, in various ways today on our show, we have two stories for you about parents like these.

2 (1m 23s):
In the second half hour of our show, we have a dad from Sandy hook who jumped into action after his son was killed and just took extraordinary measures and got results. But we're going to be in with this story about that. Coupled Sandy and Lonnie Phillips, they're out in the valley to Texas this week, they headed there straight from Buffalo, where of course, 10 people were killed earlier this month in a grocery store. Their daughter, Jessie died back in 2012. When a gunman opened fire in a movie theater in Aurora, Colorado. And since then they've organized their lives to be able to reach out to other parents like themselves. We did the story back in 2018, right after school shooting in Santa Fe, Texas, but really nothing has changed since we first heard this.

2 (2m 9s):
I was, I'm really listening to this story this week. And one thing that really hit me is how deeply it takes you into the place that I don't know. Speaking for myself. I find myself thinking about all the time right now, which is what the parents and families in Nevada, Texas are going through. One of our producers, Mickey meek put this together and spent time with Phillips's

0 (2m 31s):
Sandy and Lonnie Phillips have traveled to eight mass shootings since Aurora. It started with Sandy hook. Then I live Vista San Bernardino, Orlando, Las Vegas, Sutherland Springs, Parkland, and then Santa Fe, Texas, which is where I met up with them in may, right after a student walked into the high school and killed 10 people. They pulled up in front of the school and their truck, even though they've done this a lot. Sandy told me the discomfort and awkwardness, they feel about showing up like the Snick community has never gone away

3 (2m 59s):
Ready for,

0 (3m 1s):
But in Santa Fe, they just launched themselves in any way through each wearing a big button with a photo of their daughter, Jessie smiling, a Memorial had just gone up on a big grassy lawn out front. There were 10 wood crosses each with a red heart and a photo of the student for teacher who'd been killed. People were starting to leave. Teddy bears, flowers and balloons with the Phillips do here is just talk to whoever wants to talk. They figure that'll lead them to families. They might be useful too. And within seconds of getting out of their truck, they bumped into a daze teenage girl wearing shorts in a Santa Fe high school soccer t-shirt

4 (3m 35s):
Excuse me. How are you doing? Not okay.

0 (3m 39s):
And here the sound gets muffled because Sandy's tiny. Mike gets crushed when they hug. It's the main sound I remember from that day.

4 (3m 50s):
We're just so sorry. This has happened to you and your friends and your families and your community.

0 (3m 57s):
Another girl, a junior would light brown hair pulled back into a ponytail, walks up to them and stares at their buttons.

4 (4m 4s):
We lost our daughter in a mass shooting six years ago. It's like her. She's pretty. Thank you. She is inside now. She was lovely. Just like your friends.

0 (4m 14s):
So Sandy is good at making people feel comfortable. She has around warm face, framed by a gray Bob she's maternal and keeps her comments caring and brief. So Bonnie stands right next to Sandy with his arm around her. Sandy's the one who mostly talks to the kids, but he's always by her side, listening intently, his presence helps her do this. He looks out for her sometimes running ahead to start the AC and their chocolate before she climbs in.

4 (4m 39s):
Hi, my name is Tracy. Hi.

0 (4m 42s):
I was surprised at how quickly people opened up to the Phillips's.

4 (4m 45s):
Jesse, Jesse,

0 (4m 47s):
The girl who said Jesse was pretty. She started telling them that she escaped the shooting by hiding behind a building with other students. Now she just wanted to stay at home, but at home, all she could think about was the shooting scenes from that day, kept playing through her head. Sandy, doesn't miss a beat here

4 (5m 2s):
Over at the victim's assistance. They have trauma therapists over there. I recommend strongly that any of you kids really think about stopping by the victim's assistance. Do some trauma therapy. Okay, honey, you want

0 (5m 20s):
The Phillips is don't make money off this they're volunteers and they're not wealthy either. They're retirees living in a 245 square foot trailer surviving off of modest savings and social security. Sandy is 68 and he used to work in tourism for the city of San Antonio. And Lonnie is 74. He used to own some car lots.

4 (5m 40s):
Please do let them know. So have you guys met?

0 (5m 50s):
One thing I quickly realized going to Santa Fe is that there are now so many of these mass shootings that they become grim reunions for all the people who show up to them as part of their jobs or volunteer work.

4 (6m 0s):
Are you from Las

0 (6m 1s):
Vegas, Sandy and Lonnie ran into an emergency responder from the Las Vegas shooting and then bumped into this other guy who travels around putting up all those white crosses. You see at almost every mass shooting. He made one for their daughter, Jessie and Aurora to Sandy on the patchy brown grass next to the crosses. Lonnie interrupted him to do this thing. He and Sandy do a lot

7 (6m 22s):
11.

0 (6m 22s):
They suddenly call at the time

7 (6m 24s):
We have a 1 11, 11, 11, and we're talking to you at one 11. So it's a sign for my daughter.

0 (6m 29s):
1111 is a thing. A lot of people see it as an auspicious sign or a time to make a wish. And it was a lyric and one of Jesse's favorite songs.

8 (6m 37s):
Well, if we get 11, 11, twice a day, we know it really had a good day.

0 (6m 41s):
They told me I know it's silly, but I take it as a hello or a God wink. It helps.

9 (6m 51s):
Hello? Whammy and Denver.

4 (6m 53s):
What's your name? Cindy Evans. Cindy Cindy high school here. Oh, I'm so sorry.

0 (6m 57s):
Yeah. As the day went on, people kept dropping by the Memorial in front of the high school. Parents and students stood huddled together, staring at the crosses or writing messages on them was quiet and hot. And still there was a low generator hum from the gigantic Billy Graham ministry truck set up in the parking lot for this community. And then all of a sudden this young guy started wailing. Sandy made a beeline for him. He immediately threw his arms around her.

11 (7m 28s):
Here, here, here, here, here. Put your arms.

4 (7m 32s):
It's okay. It's not okay. It's not. Okay. Let it go. Let it go. Let it go. Let it go. Just cry your heart out. Oh God. I'm so sorry. <inaudible> it's okay, honey. You're doing it now.

0 (8m 1s):
He graduated last year. There were crosses set up for three people. He knew. Well, one of them was a teacher named Ms. Perkins. We really loved. He said she always tried to be strict with him, but could never keep up that front for very long.

4 (8m 13s):
Just breathe. Take a nice deep breath. Take a nice deep breath. Okay? Okay. Breathe with me. Here you go.

0 (8m 37s):
After a few minutes, he's caught his breath enough to talk. He tells Sandy he wants the shootings to stop. He wants to take action somehow. And then Chad suddenly switches gears and start spilling out his feelings about guns and gun control.

12 (8m 51s):
No, and days with the violence that is going on in this world, taking guns is not going to change that because he's stressed like drugs, drugs, illegal, and people are still able to get through.

0 (9m 1s):
And he plans to get a concealed handgun license. When he turns 21 later this year, the Phillips's are actually gun owners too. They have a 12 gauge shotgun. They believe in the second amendment, but they're also advocates for universal background checks and tight regulations on the types of guns, ammunition, and accessories like bump stocks, a person can buy. However, Sandy says they don't push their political beliefs on survivors. When they're doing outreach, their primary goal is to support, but it's impossible for grieving parents to avoid the politics around guns. There's a whole movement of conspiracy theorists who believe that the U S government stages mass shootings to make guns look bad.

4 (9m 38s):
We were told by Alex Jones that our daughter never existed.

0 (9m 42s):
Alex Jones, of course is famous for saying that mass shootings are fake. He's now a defendant in several defamation lawsuits. When the Phillips is ran into him face to face at a gun control event, he accused them of inventing their entire story.

4 (9m 56s):
And then two minutes later, he's saying your daughter is still alive and she's living in The Bahamas and she's living the high life in your crisis. Actors in you're paid by the Obama administration and data. Then I'm listening to him just going. You are so absolutely crazy.

0 (10m 11s):
Lonnie got into it with Jones stood right in front of him. It looked like a shoving match was about to start until Sandy stepped in and broke it up. I reached out to Jones through one of his lawyers who declined to comment the conspiracy theorists known as troopers or hoaxers troll families that victims on social media immediately after any mass shooting, this can get dangerous. After the Phillip's, his son gave interviews in Aurora, he got death threats and had to get the FBI involved. The man who was threatening him, ended up in jail. So hoaxers are one of the things the Phillips has warn parents about. They tell families to brace themselves After watching Lonnie and Sandy and Santa Fe.

0 (10m 58s):
I wondered why in the world, they were throwing themselves back into the setting, reliving their worst moment over and over again. The answer of course starts with their daughter's shooting. They got the news in the middle of the night, when they were asleep at their home in Texas. This was back in 2012 and their daughter, Jessie was in college at the time. She got to see the new Batman movie. The dark Knight rises with one of her friends at a multiplex in Aurora, Colorado. About a half hour after the movie started Jesse's friend called Sandy from the theater.

4 (11m 27s):
The minute I picked up the phone, there was screaming, just horrible screaming in the background panic. And he said, there's been a shooting. And I was like, what is he talking about? Because Jesse had been at a mall in Toronto almost seven weeks before where there was a mass shooting.

0 (11m 57s):
This was a coincidence. Jesse had left a food court in a mall just three minutes before a man walked in and opened fire.

4 (12m 3s):
So my first thought was this isn't funny, you know, but he's not a prankster. And I said, are you okay? And he said, I think I've been hit twice. And it was when he said that, that I went, why isn't Jesse calling? And I knew something was really wrong. He said, I tried.

8 (12m 25s):
And that's what I woke up because the screen was so loud. It was so horrific and something I'd never heard before.

0 (12m 31s):
Lonnie found Sandy and the living room sliding down a wall. He picked her up and took her to their couch where he held her. Jesse was one of 12 people killed that night. Another 70 people were injured. And then five months later there was another mass shooting. Sandy hook where 21st graders and six educators died. Days later, the Brady campaign to prevent gun violence, contacted the Phillips's. They're reaching out to families from other mass shootings and asked if they'd be willing to travel to new town, to talk to parents there. Sandy says they didn't even have to think about it. They immediately said yes, because they wished they'd had someone to talk to you right after Jessie died. But when they arrived at a community center in Newtown, Sandy says they felt nervous and uncomfortable.

0 (13m 14s):
Maybe they were intruding. They weren't sure if these parents would feel angry or grateful about their presence.

4 (13m 19s):
You know, it's like walking into a funeral of people that you don't know. And I remember saying to my husband, when we walked in the room and I saw their faces, I said, that's what we look like five months ago.

0 (13m 32s):
What does that look like?

4 (13m 36s):
They're hanging on to each other. They've been crying. So their eyes are red. They're walking almost robot. Like their bodies are moving, but they're not really there. I realized that's what I look like just five months ago. But it also made me realize this is exactly what I want to be doing.

0 (14m 2s):
She wanted to help these parents acclimate to their new reality. Looking back, Sandy says it was probably too soon for them to be out there trying to comfort other parents when they were still so raw. But the Phillips has said there was also a strong and instant sense of kinship that they couldn't turn away from while they were there. They ran into parents from other mass shootings to parents, from Virginia tech and Tucson. These parents had lost kids suddenly and violently in places where they thought that they were safe. The Phillips has now had parents that they could lean on to. This was the moment that launched the Phillips's into what's become their life work. They could see the need. There are no experts on what to do when your child dies in a mass shooting, the only experts are the people that's happened to.

0 (14m 44s):
So to help them find each other. Lonnie and Sandy had set up an organization called survivors empowered. They help families navigate their plus a bunch of other practical things. Everything from medical bills and charity scams that use kids' photos to raise money, to how to get your child's body home. If you live out of state, however, this new mission was hard for their family and friends to comprehend.

8 (15m 5s):
They want you to move on with your life. They want you to get back to normal. My, my own brother said to me, he said, you're not the same as you were. He said, you know, let me explain something to you. You're right. I'm not the same person. I never will be. They see it as we're obsessed with this. Well, you know, we are in a sense, we are obsessed with it.

0 (15m 25s):
The Phillips is, and a few other parents told me because it's so hard for people to understand that the grief never fades old relationships start to fall away. People you were closest to disappear, which makes us informal support group. Even more crucial. What that support looks like over time and what it means to the parents who get it. I got to see all that. When Sandy and Lonnie got to know a couple from Florida who lost their son in the shooting at Parkland Aanuka and Mitch Torres, I met them at their house. Their son's name was Nick. He was the captain of Parkland swim team was about to go to the university of Indianapolis on a swim scholarship. He was a six foot tall blonde kid who collected different flavors of Oreos and waited for Supreme drops.

0 (16m 9s):
Mitch said they just reached a point where they were becoming real friends. They talked about relationships, shared playlists and watched Scarface together. The day of the shooting, Mitch and Monica got phone calls and texts all day from people who said, they'd heard Nick was okay. One person said they heard he'd been moved to a staging area for all the students who witnessed the shooting. Another set of police officer was giving him a ride home. And then a nurse at a local hospital said she saw a patient who matched Nick's description. But by that evening, the door, it still hadn't heard directly from Nick. So they went to a Marriott that law enforcement designated as a meeting area, they sat in a ballroom with other parents and waited

14 (16m 46s):
Every time the phone rings, you jumped and think it's Nick calling from somebody else's phone. The media was calling you, do you have any comments? Can we help you find your son? And I was just like, yeah. And at two o'clock in the morning, we see this FBI car. And then they start pulling one family into a rooms at a time. And yours like screams from these rooms.

0 (17m 10s):
Then their names were called out.

14 (17m 12s):
Even walking into that room, you have this tiny little hope that they're going to say, like, we, we couldn't even find your son, you know? And that hope that he was somewhere else. And I'm ticking. Keep on thinking. Maybe he walked home and then you do the math in your head. Like it doesn't take that long to walk to our house. And then they told us the news that he was gone, he was shot. Then he was never brought to the hospital at all. But just like a nightmare, just like a nightmare.

0 (17m 40s):
Nick's body was still at the school because he died instantly. And the building was still a crime scene. It'd be two days before they could see him. Anika wanted to look at his injuries. Mitch did not. Monica says, this is just how her brain works. She's an ER, nurse. She needs details. The director at the funeral home wanting to protect her, called the medical examiners office to ask about Nick

14 (18m 4s):
And the person that answered the phone said, oh, let me, let me take a look. What's the name again? It's Nicholas where it tastes a swimmer. Oh, this swimmer is perfect. What does that mean? I think it meant that there was nothing on his face or his head. Like he, he was perfect.

0 (18m 20s):
He'd been shot three times a bullet in his chest destroyed his heart and lungs. So for you to see him,

14 (18m 27s):
Yes, he was helpful because your picture in your head, when you hear, when you hear that somebody has been shocked with an AR 15, just so gross. I'm so horrible. Horrible. And I think to see him and to see on his body where his injuries were were made me get it. Like he was so peaceful and he was not in pain. And he made me have a better image of him than the one that was playing over in my mind.

0 (19m 3s):
The Phillips has had traveled to Parkland a couple of days after the shooting, they didn't know the <inaudible>, but a mutual friend thought they should talk. And so this friend with Mitch's permission gave Sandy his phone number, Sandy called and got new answer. So she left a voicemail.

4 (19m 18s):
I'm very sorry for your loss. I understand your loss. We lost our daughter. Then you could call me any time.

0 (19m 26s):
She let him know that she and Lonnie would be in Parkland for a few more days. Mitch called back quickly. He did want to meet with them in person thought it'd be helpful to talk to another family. Who'd been through a mass shooting, but he told Sandy the timing wasn't going to work. His house was packed with family and town for next funeral.

4 (19m 42s):
And I'm on the phone with him. And ironically, I'm standing right in front of his child's cross. And I said, you're not going to believe this.

15 (19m 51s):
She said that she was standing right in front of next Memorial. I get chills right now.

4 (19m 56s):
And we proceeded to have a talk. And he said, I don't think we're ready to meet with you. And I said, I totally understand. I'm just glad that we're getting to talk, but you do need to know that truth. Hers are already online saying that this didn't happen. He said, what are truth? Hers? And I said, ah, okay.

15 (20m 15s):
I thought like, wow, you kidding me? What are you crazy?

0 (20m 20s):
Mitch asked her to stop by their house. The following day. Well, Mitch was on board with the Phillips's Monica had a different take on total stranger stopping by their house.

14 (20m 29s):
I was more, maybe more skeptical, like nervous of why are there, here? What's their agenda? How can people come and meet with us? If they don't want something from us?

0 (20m 43s):
Their house was so crowded that the only private place to talk was their bedroom. Arnica and Mitch sat on the bed, Lonnie and Sandy and chairs. Anneka remembers feeling a little uncomfortable and thinking to herself,

14 (20m 54s):
Why am I sitting here? Why not? And I, with a family who are these people, I don't know them, but I guess it might help. But it was very overwhelming. Like I can't believe that I have to sit there and have this conversation. What is this? This is my life. Now, you know,

0 (21m 9s):
Was there a point in the conversation where it started to turn for you?

14 (21m 13s):
Yeah, I think, I think when they, when they said don't join our on organization, now don't fight. Now. Just take care of yourself and let yourself grieve.

0 (21m 22s):
They ask questions about Nick and before long, they were just talking even remembers Mitch asking if they were religious. And if they ever got signs from Jesse, he told Mitch that liked them. They weren't, but they took 11, 11 as a hello from Jesse. The conversation went on for three hours.

14 (21m 38s):
You know, all our friends and family as much as they did for us and how much love they showed, none of them could have any clue what we were feeling. And here were two people knowing exactly what we're feeling.

15 (21m 50s):
They also made me feel a little more confident if I don't know if that's the right word, you're in a club. We all don't want to be in. We didn't want to meet you. We wish we would've met under different circumstances, but you have people help you with this kind of grief.

0 (22m 6s):
And a few days later, when the online conspiracy started appearing about Nick, that he didn't exist or that he was living in California, they remembered Sandy's warning. It was still upsetting, but less upsetting because they knew it was coming. They've helped. In other ways to the door, it's took the Phillips's advice and gotten to trauma therapy right away, both individually and as a family, their younger son, Alex has been through a lot. Nick was his best friend. One of the last things Nick did on the day of the shooting was walk Alex to his English class. Alex was injured in the shooting and sat by a kid who died right in front of him. Arnica says managing her grief along with her sons has been tough.

14 (22m 49s):
There was so much attention on Nick, Nick, Nick nickname, everybody came for Nick. The flowers were for Nick. The letters were from Nick. I felt like, you know, I, if this didn't happen to Nicholas and only this, I could have been there for Alex so much stronger and so much more. So I was so afraid that he would get neglected and all that.

4 (23m 8s):
I think sometimes children feel like, well, you must have loved that child more than you love me.

0 (23m 17s):
Sandy son was 25. When his sister died, Sandy tried to talk to him about it, which ended up pushing him farther away. When she talks to parents, she talks about her own mistakes too. Eight months after they first met. Mitch is still in touch with Sandy. They text or call each other. Every couple of weeks. Mitch relies on Sandy more than Aanuka who, unlike him already has a built-in network of friends. She talks to all the time

15 (23m 49s):
And we texted. I think we texted yesterday. It was 11, 11. Actually we texted yesterday and I feel like she's still in it. You know, she's still with us. She it's someone who we can lean on and give a support. And I, in turn one, I heard lean on me. Maybe, you know, seeing us get stronger. It gives her energy to

0 (24m 10s):
He's right about that. Sandy spends almost every day at her tiny kitchen table in their trailer, fielding texts and phone calls from survivors and messaging with people on social media who asked for help.

4 (24m 22s):
The pain is always there at the end of the day. And when you go to bed at night, when you first wake up in the morning, it's there, but you have a sense of purpose. And that, that helps

0 (24m 31s):
A little bit of a lifeline or,

4 (24m 32s):
Oh, it's total lifeline total. You know, if I didn't have this work, I don't think I'd be alive. I really don't. And I say that to Lonnie all the time he goes, but you know, don't you love me enough kind of thing to stay alive. And he said, I just don't think I would have had the ability to keep going.

0 (24m 55s):
Mitch and Monica told me that when they're feeling stronger, they like to do for other families with the Phillips's have done for them. They said, God forbid another shooting happens. But if it does, we'll be out there with them.

2 (25m 17s):
Nicki meek is one of the boosters of our show. Coming up. Parent tries to combat an infuriating and very personal piece of misinformation online that just will not go away and does some things that parents almost never do. That's in a minute. I'm Chicago public radio. When our program continues,

16 (25m 36s):
Today's podcast is supported by global X ETFs inflation and rising interest rates are complicating the economic picture at global X ETFs, we offer a wide range of investing strategies that aim to produce regular income. While you navigate volatility, visit global X etfs.com to learn more.

17 (25m 57s):
Hey there this American life listeners, I'm Wesley Morris. I'm a culture writer at the New York times. And I co-host a podcast called still processing this season. I invited some of my favorite writers and critics to come talk to me about the culture that shaped us, the changing ways we consume it and why Keanu Reeves is basically a culture unto himself. You can listen to still processing wherever you get your podcast.

2 (26m 30s):
It's this American life from my reclass today on our program, the parents step in. So with the government doing, I dunno, is it nothing is next to nothing to reduce the number of mass shootings in this country. We have stories today of parents taking action, specifically, parents of children who were killed in mass shootings and in the stories we have in today's show these parents, they get results. The dad in this next act is somebody who Annie and Sandy introduced producer Miki, meek to his name is Lenny Posner. This is act two of our show down the rabbit hole. And when any pastor wants to explain to people what his life is like, he sometimes tells this story on election night, back in 2016, he says, he went to a bar, got a seat near a television or a beer.

2 (27m 16s):
And you know, started making small talk.

18 (27m 19s):
And I had turned to the guy to my right and said, did you vote? And from there, he went into a long explanation about just some shadow government ideas and whether voting makes a difference. And I'm probably 10 minutes into it. He was talking about mass shootings and then eventually Sandy hook,

2 (27m 42s):
Sandy hook, of course, where a gunman killed 20 children on first grade, as well as seven adults. This random stranger then started telling Lenny this particular story about Sandy hook. He thought the whole shooting was fake. It had to be fake. He said because one of his first graders also showed up as a victim in a second mass shooting all the way over in Pakistan, in the corners of the internet where people trade Sandy hook, conspiracy theories. This is a key piece of evidence that Sandy hook wasn't real. Of course it was real. And what happened in Pakistan was in reality about two years after Sandy hook, the Taliban gunned down more than a hundred kids there. And there was a public vigil and add the public vigil probably as a sign of solidarity with other kids who had died in school shootings.

2 (28m 28s):
Mourners had this photo of a boy from Sandy hook, smiling and wearing a Spiderman shirt under a quarter jacket with furry cower, Sandy hook deniers saw that in the coverage and they pounced. Did he die twice? Did he die at all? So the guy at the bar with Lenny is rattling through all this Pakistan stuff. And then as Leonie explained to Miki, meek, who he told this story to, the guy mentioned the kid's name, Noah Pozner,

18 (28m 59s):
I didn't really need to hear much more than that. Just needed to shut him down basically.

19 (29m 4s):
So what did you do?

18 (29m 5s):
I took out my driver's license and I said, whoa, look who you're talking to, you know, show some respect,

2 (29m 10s):
The boy. And the photo was Lenny's son. Noah, who was six when he died,

19 (29m 14s):
He conducted or

18 (29m 16s):
Well, he sure he connected it instantly. Yeah. And he just became more agitated. Very angered went outside and maybe had a cigarette, came back, yelled at me some more, oh my God, how much did they pay you? How can you do this? He was committed to his belief. I was the villain.

2 (29m 35s):
People like this man at the bar, pretty much redefined everything about the way it Lenny loses life. Where are you going? Is how he lives. He runs into these hoaxers in person. And pretty much every day online, they think the government has paid him millions to play the part of a grieving dad and their minds. Lenny is the sick one. No, it was never even his kid and the person who has popularized these theories more than anybody is Alex Jones who runs the website info wars and who pushed these theories with his radio show and his YouTube videos. Alex Jones made his name right after nine 11 promoting the idea that nine 11 was an attack orchestrated by our own government with Sandy hook.

2 (30m 15s):
John said many times that he did not believe the shooting was real.

20 (30m 19s):
Sandy hook is a synthetic completely fake with actors. In my view, manufactured. I couldn't believe it. At first. I knew they had actors there clearly, but I thought they killed some real kids. And it just shows how bold they are that they clearly used actors.

2 (30m 38s):
He's going to the government or some shadowy global forces are the ones who hire these actors. He and the other hoaxers called them crisis actors. I was like this whole alternate world that exists right next to the real one that makes life miserable for parents like learning. But I'm like most parents in that situation, Lenny decided to go all action here, out on the hoaxers and on Alex Jones action hero, I will do what needs to get done to defend my family. Damn. The consequences. Lenny is resourceful. He is <inaudible>. He does not give up in this world that we live in of hoaxers and trolls is marked at a path that I think very few of us would want to take Miki.

2 (31m 19s):
Meek, who did the story on Sandy and Lonnie also put together this story about the transformation of Lenny Posner. We first broadcast is back in 2019. There's some curse words in the story that we have an beeped for this podcast version of the show. If you prefer B version, go to our website, here's Nikki.

0 (31m 36s):
The first time Lenny became aware of any conspiracy theories about Sandy hook was about a month after the shooting. He'd been on a media blackout, trying to get through Noah's funeral and taking care of his two young girls. They were also at the elementary school that morning, and one of them was Noah's twin sister. She hid in a separate classroom, but one day Lenny finally felt ready to go online, read the news, Google the son's name,

18 (31m 59s):
Info wars, whereas coming up on search results, the forums. Yeah. And it's just completely disgusting.

0 (32m 8s):
And just over 30 days, this whole world had been invented. And one of the central pieces of it involved Lenny's wife info wars fans were dissecting this one interview she did on CNN. It was with Anderson Cooper just days after Noah's funeral.

21 (32m 22s):
What do you want people to know about?

22 (32m 25s):
He loved running and playing with his siblings and you love bubble baths and fireflies. And he loves eating the inside of Oreo cookies. And he played the video Gangnam style ad nauseum.

21 (32m 38s):
I understand he used to tell his siblings that he, that he managed to taco factory

22 (32m 43s):
Yes. That he was going to split his time as an adult, between managing a taco factory and being an astronaut.

0 (32m 49s):
The comments online were gross and flimsy. Why didn't she sound sadder? Why would she put on lipstick if she was really grieving? And wasn't she too old to be the mom of a six-year-old kid, they were convinced that something was up.

21 (33m 2s):
How are you holding up?

22 (33m 6s):
I, most of the time, I'm, I'm kinda numb. I think every mom out there can relate to the fact of how long it takes to create a baby. Those nine months that you watch every ultrasound and every heartbeat. And it takes nine months to create a human being. And it takes seconds for an AR 15 to take that away from the surface of this earth,

0 (33m 29s):
This reference to guns was another aha moment for conspiracy theorists. Some of them started digging into Veronique's life, looked up her maiden name and then said, Hey, look at this. There's a Swiss diplomat who has her exact same name. And even fishier this diplomat once went to an arms control summit at the United nations. So maybe they're the same person. Maybe she's one of those elite globalists trying to make guns look bad. So president Obama can repeal the second amendment. Suddenly every real sentiment Veronique shared about Noah was getting reinterpreted as lines from a sinister script.

22 (34m 3s):
They were here and they mattered. They all had families and they matter.

0 (34m 10s):
And the kicker that cinched it for these conspiracy theorists Anderson Cooper's knows there's this moment when the tip of his nose disappears because of a digital glitch in the video, what CNN says was normal interference that happens with a live satellite feed. It's just a couple seconds, but hoaxers, wouldn't let it go.

18 (34m 27s):
They said that it's a green screen or blue screen or whatever. So that was a fake interview. And Vernique was a participant of a fake staged CNN interview. That conspiracy theory was all over YouTube. And it was all over YouTube with Noah's image.

0 (34m 48s):
I've talked to parents, who've lost kids and other mass shootings, and they've all been blindsided by online harassment, from conspiracy theorists. The crisis actor claim is so common. Now these attacks usually start almost immediately after victims are Aidid in the media and parents who go on TV and talk about gun control, like Veronique. They get it. The worst Sandy hook is when this really took off families get stuck fending off all this crazy hate by themselves. There just aren't that many resources for them because law enforcement still hasn't figured out how to deal with most cyber harassment and the tech companies aren't much help. So most families just tried to ignore the conspiracy theorists and hope they'll eventually go away. And that's what Lenny did for awhile.

0 (35m 29s):
His life was Iraq, but after about a year and a half, they were still at it and he couldn't let it go anymore.

18 (35m 36s):
I realized that the grieving requires, you know, a calmness and a silence. And all of this material was a distraction for me and it was noise and I needed to handle that noise so that I could have the silence and calm that I needed.

0 (35m 56s):
There's this photo I love of Lenny with his arm wrapped around Noah. He's got a walrus mustache and he's kneeling on a trampoline with a soft smile it's spring. And Noah has all this big brown hair, fat cheeks. He snuggling his whole body into Lenny's chest. Lenny's got tons of family photos like these posted them in an online Memorial. He made for Noah right after he died. The Sandy hook deniers downloaded them and repurpose them into cruel memes, wrote fake across Noah's face, took a picture of his headstone and photo-shopped under his name is not buried here. Photos of his daughters were circulating to, he couldn't just leave them out there on the web with the trolls.

0 (36m 37s):
Lenny got consumed with thinking about how to take control of the situation, how to extract Noah and his family from all of this, the internet didn't scare him. It was actually his comfort zone. He ran his own it business. He was not the kind of guy who sat around and complained about how something didn't work. He was the guy who fixed stuff.

18 (36m 56s):
So you need to find what the problem is, and then find, you know, what your solution is. And then start getting closer to that solution. Step-by-step otherwise the problem is overwhelming. And then you just want someone else to fix it for you. You have to track down where you can make a difference and get closer to being less broken.

0 (37m 21s):
There was one other thing that made Lenny, especially qualified to deal with the conspiracy theorists. He used to enjoy those theories itself. The classic fun ones, Bigfoot Lochness area, 51, NASA faking the moon landing. Like what's the fun of it.

18 (37m 36s):
It's suspending your disbelief. It's like sitting down and watching a science fiction movie, and then looking at the what if, and it's, it's just fun, especially if there's no price to pay in your life. And there's no cost to that way of thinking. Then it's just the game.

0 (37m 52s):
Sometimes he even listen to Alex Jones in his car. And in fact, just a month after the shootings, when Lenny first saw those things on Alex Jones, his website, he tried to reach out. He found a general info wars, email address, and shot him off this message. Alex. I'm very disappointed to see how many people are directing more anger at families that lost their children in new town, accusing us of being actors haven't. We had our share of pain and suffering. I used to enjoy listening to your shows. Now I feel that your type of show created these hateful people and they need to be reeled in exclamation point. About an hour later, he heard back from Jones's staff

18 (38m 30s):
And they responded with, we have not supported the crisis actor claim. We insist that it's a true event on and on

0 (38m 37s):
This wasn't true. Jones did spread the crisis actor theory. It was on his website at the time. And he started talking about it a lot that CNN interview with Veronique, he talked about it all the time.

20 (38m 49s):
We've got video of Anderson Cooper with clear blue screen out there. He's not there in the town square. We've got people clearly coming up and laughing and then doing the fake crying. We've clearly got people where it's actors playing different parts of different people. I've looked at it. And undoubtedly there's a cover-up there's actors. They're manipulating, they've been caught lying, and they were pre-planning before it enrolled out with it.

0 (39m 14s):
What Lenny wanted was a one-on-one conversation with Jones, but it didn't happen.

18 (39m 18s):
There were a few emails after that asking me to prove that I'm really who I am and you know, sort of leading on to get me on the show.

0 (39m 26s):
Lenny didn't want that. He's very private and very reserved a behind the scenes kind of guy. He's careful when he talks things like no comment that's off the record. Or do I have to talk about my personal life that came up all the time during our interview, one of the ground rules he gave is that I had to run his quotes past him and his lawyer because he was worried about his own safety. If his words were misconstrued also he's fighting some of the conspiracy theorists in Quora. We agreed to his terms. And in the end, he didn't ask me to edit any of his quotes, but he did request that we remove one personal detail and we did now a year and a half after he reached out to Alex Jones, he decided to try a new tactic.

0 (40m 11s):
He'd go directly to Jones's followers and the other Sandy hook, conspiracy theorists.

22 (40m 16s):
I think he, he, his approach was I'm going to make them see the light.

0 (40m 20s):
This is very unique. She and Lenny were separated when the shooting happened, but we're still very much in each other's lives. They decided to start releasing documents about NOAA report cards, school photos,

22 (40m 31s):
Even disclosed Noah's death certificate, which was a difficult decision that we made. But figured after a while, you know of providing this, this hard copy, convincing evidence, that reason would prevail. And they would say, oh, okay. You know, yeah, you've made your point. You know, I'm going to come around

0 (40m 53s):
Len. He also decided he answered anyone's questions. He wanted to join this notorious Facebook group called Sandy hook hoax. It's where a lot of the deniers were congregating and sharing theories. The cover photo on their page looked like it came straight out of a horror movie, a corpse light girl with a keep quiet finger in front of her mouth, the administrator of the Facebook group immediately let him in. Did you identify yourself as like I am a father or do you just,

18 (41m 19s):
They knew who I wasn't,

0 (41m 21s):
To me, it seems so crazy to even go there. Like this doesn't exactly sound like a group of people who'd want to listen to you.

18 (41m 27s):
People who are conspiracy minded, see these tragedies on the internet or on television. They still feel separate from these events. And I considered that bridging that gap could be an important step. I

0 (41m 46s):
Can add a human element to this. That's

18 (41m 48s):
Right. That's right. And so here I am. I am. I'm the person. And so let let's see what happens.

0 (41m 54s):
The question started pouring in

18 (41m 56s):
Why weren't these children rushed to hospitals? Why wasn't anything done? Why aren't you suing, you know, the MTS or why aren't you doing this? Why wasn't a rescue helicopter called from Hartford. And I started to recognize some of the patterns that were there.

0 (42m 11s):
There are the people you'd expect in a conspiracy group. Anti-gun control people and government people, but also parents.

18 (42m 18s):
They were young parents with small children and they just couldn't wrap their minds around the reality that you know, that adult can look at children in their eyes and pump bullets into their head, but they just can't deal with that.

0 (42m 39s):
The conversation on this Facebook group quickly got ugly and abusive. Some of the members started using antisemitic slurs. Lenny was trying everything to keep up a rapport with them. Even told them I listened to Alex Jones in my car. I used to argue with people about nine 11 being an inside job. I entertained that we didn't go to the moon, but it didn't work. So we started blocking people and fighting back. This got him booted from the group. What's remarkable is just how up for this whole fight. He was when a bunch of people kept private messaging him, Lenny thought, you know what? I'll just start my own Facebook group. He called it conspiracy theorists anonymous. This name was meant as a joke. He has a dry sense of humor.

0 (43m 21s):
Anyway, he made some progress with people, the people who aren't full-blown deniers, who actually wanted help parsing out the truth of what really happened, but they dropped away once they got answers. And pretty soon the only ones left were just dark, sadistic trolls coming in to entertain themselves. One of Lenny's worst trolls is a guy named Wolfgang. How big that's his real name by the way, he's a retired school security expert in Florida. Who's probably the number one new town hoaxer in the world. This guy travels to new town appeared as an expert on Alex Jones. This show he's even called for Newtown parents to zoom the bodies of their children, to prove that their dad, how they ordered a background check on Lenny, then send it out in an email to lots of people.

0 (44m 9s):
It was almost a hundred pages, the scene, everything from a social security number and phone number to almost every address he'd ever lived at with photos. Names of his relatives were included to the online harassment had become so intense at Lenny and Veronique and their two girls went into hiding. They moved into separate high security gated communities, but Lenny's address kept getting exposed. And hoaxer started posting videos of where he lived.

18 (44m 35s):
One apartment that I had moved into. I had only lived there, I think for a month. And I got a call from a particular hoaxer who happens to be in prison now for attempted murder. And he called me up and was acting like a smart ass. And then read me my social security number. And then read me my address, where I had just moved into. And I said, well, you know what? I don't like this apartment that much anyway. And, and I moved shortly after that

0 (45m 7s):
To try and throw the hoaxers off. Lenny started putting utility bills in different names and got multiple PO boxes all over the place. All this forced Lenny into a new battle strategy. If they were going to expose him, he'd do the same to them. He wrote newspaper. Op-eds clean out how big and the others by name and when these hoaxers posted his new addresses online, he did the same to them. He also made it so that if you Googled their names, the first thing anyone would see was all the Sandy hook garbage they'd created. And Lenny being Lenny decided to write a biography about Wolfgang, how big his life called the hoax of a lifetime. He released it as an ebook. Lenny became the one who knocks.

0 (45m 47s):
He calls this troll rustling. It's like trolling, the trolls. He gets both energized and sheepish. When talking about it, he insists sometimes the only way to fight hardcore hoaxers is it turned the tables on them and it worked on some of them freak them out. Still, Lenny was just one guy and every day, new mountains of content about no over showing up online, his crusade was a lonely one. The hoaxer seemed so dangerous. Most of the other new town parents wanted to stay as far away as possible from them.

18 (46m 23s):
In my darker moments, the conspiracy part of me would return and ask myself, am I the only one that lost a child? Why am I the only one fighting back? I mean, what the hell is going on? I mean, people were trampling all over other people's children's memories and those children no longer had a voice to defend themselves. And people were just silent about it.

0 (46m 50s):
But while Lenny was escalating his tactics, so it was the other side around the second anniversary of Sandy hook. A small group of conspiracy theorists made an almost three hour movie on YouTube questioning the shooting. They described themselves as independent journalists and researchers, but their backgrounds were totally random. They included a magician, the owner of a moving company, a guy who'd been arrested for stabbing someone five times and a stay at home. Dad.

23 (47m 14s):
I just had an idea that I wanted to be an underground filmmaker myself.

0 (47m 18s):
This is Doug Maguire. He says he met this group online on YouTube and got brought in at the end to help Polish the movie. It felt exciting at the time, Doug was a struggling filmmaker in Angeles. Occasionally did some stunt work. He got into conspiracy theories. The way lots of people do watching them on YouTube. Like Lenny, he loved the ones about Bigfoot in UFO's, but then he went to look up news about Sandy hook and YouTube's recommendation system started suggesting hoax videos. He didn't believe the theory that the kids were actors. He thought children died, but he felt pretty sure there was some other kind of coverup going on, maybe one with the mafia. And where did you get that information? Like where did you come up with this idea of a mob?

0 (47m 59s):
Had he read this somewhere?

23 (48m 1s):
No, it was, you know, cause I make movies. So I think I have an active imagination.

0 (48m 8s):
Like what was your thinking?

23 (48m 9s):
A family had done someone wrong. Like let's say the movie Goodfellas. Okay. Henry Hill is hiding out in a little village.

0 (48m 18s):
You also mentioned kindergarten cop. When they released their film, they uploaded it to a bunch of different accounts on places like YouTube, Vimeo, daily motion. Pretty soon it was showing up everywhere to combat this. Lenny had to change tactics one final time, no more talking to hoaxers one-on-one. Now the thing he'd focus on was content removal, scrubbing their stuff off the internet. He decided he was going to get every single copy of the movie taken down, which wasn't going to be easy. He couldn't just write into YouTube and say, Hey, this video is full of lies. That wasn't going to be enough. The internet is full of lies. He needed something else. And he realized he had it.

0 (48m 58s):
These conspiracy theorists had used photos and videos of him and Noah and Veronique. Those were his property, making this movie a copyright violation. The stolen images were now a useful weapon. Let me track down every place where this video was posted. And you've probably seen this. There's a little button you can click on to report stuff. So that's what he did for hours every day and success sort of the hoaxers kept reposting and moving the video on to other sites.

18 (49m 27s):
You know, the crazies are not running the asylum. It's the, it's the platforms who are allowing this to go on. So that solidifies it for me, that we have to just remove all of this garbage and that's all we need to do.

0 (49m 40s):
But this of course pissed off a lot of hoaxers.

20 (49m 43s):
We don't know what's going on. We just know it doesn't look right.

0 (49m 47s):
Alex Jones. He was stumped. Lenny has successfully forced the info war site to remove pictures of Noah using copyright.

20 (49m 55s):
So frustrating. This was amazing. The climate is Lenny Pozner they think because they can hold out some little kids and say, we're shutting people's websites down because they're belittling the memory of these children. Nowhere not, but even if we were, you couldn't violate our first amendment because that's what it's there for. And if you take our rights, you take everybody's rights.

0 (50m 18s):
Then Jones put one of the guys who worked on the movie on the air. His name is Brian. He's from Alabama.

20 (50m 24s):
What do you think of us being censored? What's been happening to you.

24 (50m 29s):
I can tell you lots about Lenny, that this man is something that you've never seen before. He's got a group of trolls.

20 (50m 38s):
I mean, if they're trying to shut us down, when we're just investigating it and looking at all sides, it must be horrible for folks out there that vehemently think this is a staged a show. So just specifically, what have you gone through?

24 (50m 51s):
I can't even put up a video showing that he has put up a copyright strike against me, without him copyrighting striking that these people are filed and landing. If you're listening your day is coming. My friend it is coming.

20 (51m 8s):
Wow. I mean, this sounds like a wars going on. I think they made a major mistake involving us.

24 (51m 13s):
Oh, I totally agree. They don't know what they bid off. Go after them. Alex crushed them.

0 (51m 19s):
In this video on YouTube. Joan showed his fans. He had millions of them. Lenny's email the city he lived in and the address he picked up, his mail even held up some satellite shots from Google earth. Lenny got this video taken down to flagging it for privacy violations, but it didn't matter. The hoaxers had taken on a mob mentality pursuing and harassing Lenny. This is an info wars fan named Lucy Richards who left multiple death threats on moneys phone.

25 (51m 46s):
Did you hide your imaginary son at attic? Are you still fucking here? You fucking do back there. It's going to die a lot. Hell, it's coming to you real soon and there's nothing you can do about it. So you just have to take it. Okay. Look behind you. This is coming you real soon.

0 (52m 8s):
She said, look behind you. Death is coming to you real soon. Lenny was already living in hiding. He'd moved multiple times by then because hoaxers kept tracking down his address. But now the chances that a Hope's there might show up at his door and kill him. Suddenly felt much higher. His kids were living with him half the week and he worried about them. At the same time he didn't consider stopping. He didn't think it would make them safer.

18 (52m 33s):
That's one of the misconceptions that exist that people think that I am only targeted because of challenging the content. And that's not the case. I took the action because I was being targeted. So if my address is published all over the internet, my photo was published all over the internet and my living children's photos are published online. That's existed before I did anything. I didn't cause the targeting. It was already there. I was minimizing the targeting.

0 (53m 9s):
He posted receipts for firearms. I'd asked if he actually bought them and he wouldn't give me an answer. Amidst. All this Lenny kept up his daily ritual. He'd wake up, make coffee, and then sit in front of his computer for hours. Flagging content, trying to systematically erase Noah from the Sandy hook hook story. There was a lot of stuff. He couldn't invoke copyright law for like the death threats and harassment. That was much harder to get taken down. The tech companies were wary of becoming arbiters of truth, making decisions about what its users could and couldn't say, but Lenny in his usual methodical fashion kept chipping away on YouTube.

0 (53m 52s):
He kept a scorecard. Once he nailed someone with three copyright strikes, YouTube would remove their accounts. He killed thousands of videos. This way, the hoaxers called this getting nerd. He become a hashtag. Then he and Veronique helped get a professor in Florida named James Tracy fired. This guy had harassed them for years and kept using Noah's image to promote his conspiracy theories. He's also the one who helped popularize the conspiracy term crisis actor on his blog right after the shooting and that woman who was leaving death threats, Lucy Richards, Lenny reported her to the police and they arrested her. She was sentenced to five months in jail. The judge rebuked her for going after Lenny saying, quote, this is a reality and there is no fiction.

0 (54m 35s):
There are no alternative facts. He borrowed her from info wars and other conspiracy websites is one of the conditions of her parole. One surprising thing that happened over the years is that some of the hoaxers who used to harass Lenny flipped to his side, there were dozens of them. Lenny says these were people who came to him only after they changed their own minds. Not people who tried to convert. He says that never works. It's a waste of time. Some of them became disenchanted when they saw Sandy hook hoaxers who were more interested in Photoshopping evidence and getting online followers than tracking down the truth. One of them was Doug who worked on that hoaxer movie about Sandy hook in 2016, he found a phone number for Lenny and left a voicemail.

23 (55m 21s):
Hey Lenny Posner. This is dickhead Doug Maguire. If you ever need me, if you ever want to get ahold of me and learn about what all these people are up to. Here's my number.

0 (55m 33s):
Did you apologize in that message?

23 (55m 36s):
I don't believe I did

0 (55m 38s):
Not. Surprisingly Lenny didn't return his call. Doug was reaching out to Lenny because the hoaxers had turned on him too. He says he started feuding with some of them after he made a video, exposing a Christian utuber who was making money, a false, outrageous claims. All the social media accounts then got hacked. Lenny was the only person he could think of who knew how to fight back. He wanted advice. So he tried him again and got through. He told Lenny that it felt like he'd been sort of brainwashed that he'd been on a roller coaster ride that he wanted to switch sides. And he had started a nonprofit called the honor network where volunteers help families from mash, tragedies, fight, digital harassment. So Doug began helping him scrub content.

0 (56m 20s):
When you were doing it, did you feel like you were doing penance?

23 (56m 24s):
Yeah. Yeah. And my heart is very heavy for this.

0 (56m 33s):
Were you surprised at how quickly Lenny let you in?

23 (56m 40s):
Yeah, and I still am the fact that he even is giving me a chance. I'm very humbled. You know, I tell him, I love him. I tell him that he's like my mentor. Sometimes I call him boss and he says, don't call me boss. So

0 (56m 60s):
Have you apologize to other families at Sandy hook?

23 (57m 3s):
No. I think just to try to like call up, you know, one of these families that they don't, they don't need to hear from, you know, some kind of YouTube, a guy in Los Angeles, I think like one day I am very sorry. I'm very sorry for any problems to the, to any victims.

0 (57m 43s):
Doug has now one of Lenny's most devoted volunteers and he's got more than a hundred people helping them out at any given time. So the burnout rate is high because the work is so intense and hoaxers harass volunteers like Doug all the time for helping Lany. When Lenny Googles know his name, now he no longer gets page after page of hooks or content. A lot of it is gone now. Instead, the first hits that come up are news articles about Lenny's fight to make the tech companies more accountable. For years, he's been criticizing them in the press for not doing more to protect families of mash tragedies from online abuse last summer, he and Veronique called out mark Zuckerberg in an open letter in the guardian.

0 (58m 28s):
They wrote quote, you arguably the most powerful man on the planet have deemed that the attacks on us are in material that providing assistance in removing threats is too cumbersome. And that our lives are less important than providing a safe Haven for hate. Shortly after Facebook reached out to Lenny, he started working with our content moderators and policymakers and says their response times are now much faster. He also helped turn up the heat on Alex Jones that spring he and Veronique and another dad from Newtown filed defamation lawsuits against him. Other parents followed with their own suit. A few months later, apple started removing Jones's material from iTunes. Same. They would not quote, tolerate hate speech, Facebook, Google, and Spotify then followed suit YouTube killed his channel completely, but you can still find his videos on the platform.

0 (59m 19s):
And Twitter was one of the last to take action against Jones and info wars. The New York times reported that getting deep platformed cut his online audience nearly in half. I met up with Lenny at his place. Recently he lives in a gated high security residence. He was filing copyright and harassment reports to places like Instagram, Pinterest, Reddit, Vimeo, and Twitter. He says, Twitter is as big as headache right now. There's content about Noah. He still can't get down and he gets personally attacked there all the time. He's like you like jumped in this rabbit hole. That is never going to end.

18 (59m 59s):
I don't think I jumped in. I think I just got pulled in.

0 (1h 0m 4s):
You're just constantly subjecting yourself to just so much hateful material.

18 (1h 0m 8s):
Just like throwing trash out. Once it's gone, it feels really good. It really does.

0 (1h 0m 15s):
This is what victory looks like. Taking the trash out every day. He recently spotted one of the hoaxers has been after him, turns out the person lives nearby. Lenny's about to have to move again. This will be the eighth time

2 (1h 0m 36s):
Mickey meek does reverse broadcast this story in 2019, Lenny Veronique and other parents from Sandy hook has scored some big victories. They would defamation lawsuits against Alex Jones running these families also received a $73 million settlement from Remington. It is notoriously difficult to Sue gun manufacturers for the way their guns are used, but the families focused on how Remington marketed their guns to very young people. This is the largest payout a gun manufacturer has ever given out for a mass shooting.

2 (1h 2m 7s):
Well today's program is particularly by a manual very day because about Mickey, Nick, and myself with production up from Michelle Navarro, stone, Nelson, Matt Tierney, and Diane Wu, our website, this American life.org. You can stream our archive of over 750 episodes for absolutely free us of those videos. Lists of favorite shows, tons of other stuff there again, this American life.org is American. Life is delivered to public radio stations by PRX, the public radio exchange. Thanks as always to our programs co-founder of <inaudible>. You know, he recently tried Axe, body spray. You know that stuff. He didn't like it.

20 (1h 2m 41s):
You can't wash that evil off, man.

2 (1h 2m 43s):
I'm Eric Glass back next week. More stories of this American life Next week on the podcast of this American life. So at second grade teacher Rosen, a TV pops in a movie that is so terrifying. It lands a bunch of kids in group therapy,

27 (1h 3m 18s):
The six-year-old man, he was like, this is bull like this, this counselor is not worth a damn she's not giving us practical advice. Why are we wasting time talking about this? We need to focus on killing the leprechaun.

2 (1h 3m 31s):
What happens when adults are not around next week on the podcast, on your local public radio station.