The Morgan Library & Museum (0s):
This summer, the Morgan library and museum features renowned figures in writing architecture, photography, and more including the Centenery celebration of James Joyce's groundbreaking novel Ulysses with rarely seen architectural drawings and period photographs. J Pierpont Morgan's library, building the Bookmans paradise, traces, the design and construction of the historic library and opens a new public garden. The Morgan library and museum is located at Madison avenue and 36th street in New York city plan, your visit today@themorgan.org.

1 (34s):
A quick warning, there are curse words that are unbeaten in today's episode of the show. If you prefer a beeped version, you can find that at our website, this American life.org

2 (44s):
Kids can be so confident about what they know and what they think they can do. And then they get tested. What about producers on a bakery? Talk to somebody who is tested like that as a girl. Hey there. Hi.

3 (58s):
Yeah. So the person in the story, her name is Molly and Molly grew up in an apartment complex outside of Houston, lots of families and the parents. They worked long hours, some multiple jobs, which meant that this complex was really run by the kids. They had total free reign and they did all sorts of things that you could only do. If there were no adults around, like there was this four lane highway up behind the complex and the kids would go up to the highway

4 (1m 27s):
And we would play leap frog across the highway.

3 (1m 32s):
This is Molly.

4 (1m 33s):
And we would wait until a car came that way. It would be kind of scarier. If we could see headlights coming, this is when we were like, all right, now's the time to leap frog.

2 (1m 44s):
Oh my God.

3 (1m 45s):
I know. And then sometimes those lights would be a police officer.

4 (1m 50s):
So they would, you know, turn on their lights and turn around real quick and start speeding toward us. And this is when it was fun. Cause we were like, you know, we're ditching the cops right now. And we would run and back into the complex and just spread out and hide wherever we could under cars in bushes, in truck beds and watched through the cracks.

3 (2m 21s):
Molly loved hiding. So her and her best friend Arielle, they come up with this reason to hide all the time. They decide that they are spy detectives and it is their job to sort of spy on everyone in the complex. And at the time, you know, they're 10, 11, and they're tiny too. They're these tiny girls so they can fit everywhere. Like they would go into the laundry room and hide inside the machines with the door cracked so they could eavesdrop or they would hide in the laundry room, trash cans,

4 (2m 50s):
Which is disgusting, but we didn't care.

2 (2m 54s):
So they're hiding and spying on people all the

3 (2m 56s):
Time. Yeah. What's funny about it is like, like everywhere, if you were a kid in this building, you never actually had you think you had a moment of privacy and then you'd turn and you'd hear them giggling or you know, they were there and there they are. Did the other kids in the complex, like know that you guys were spies?

4 (3m 16s):
Yeah. Yeah, because they always knew who was stalking them.

3 (3m 26s):
So all of this is going on for over a year. And then Molly and Arielle, they leave the apartment complex one night to go to sleep over. This is 2005, they're 12 and 13. And when they get back to the complex, the next morning they see this swarm of cops,

4 (3m 41s):
One of the other apartment kids immediately us like right as we got out of the car, ran up to us and was like, someone just got murdered. And we were like, what? And he was like, yeah. And the cops are looking for you because somebody said that you saw it. And we were like, what do you mean? We just got home. Like we were at Sheridan's birthday party. And he was like the apartment below me. Somebody like stabbed somebody else. And because the kids knew, we knew everything. They were like, yeah, Molly and Ariel know, like they had to have seen it.

2 (4m 17s):
Wait, did they actually see it?

3 (4m 18s):
No, they didn't. But the kids were just so confident. Like Molly and Ariel, like they see everything. So kids are like, just go talk to them.

2 (4m 25s):
That's what happens.

3 (4m 27s):
And so, you know, they hear these police are looking for them. So they run up to the cop that they know officer cook. Cause he lives in the building.

4 (4m 34s):
He was like, Hey, I've been looking for y'all. And we were like, okay. Yeah, our friend told us, but we just got back from my birthday party. We weren't even here. And he's like, oh, okay, well y'all stay away from this area. And we're like, okay, that's not going to happen

2 (4m 49s):
Because they think they can solve this.

3 (4m 50s):
Yeah. They think they can solve the murder.

2 (4m 53s):
Wait, how old are these kids again?

3 (4m 55s):
They're 12 and 13.

2 (4m 56s):
Okay.

3 (4m 57s):
But you know, so in order to solve this, they're like, okay, what do we need? We need to know the facts. So they go back to the boy who told them about this in the first place. And they're like, you know what happened? And he's like, okay. So it happened right underneath my window. And they're like, let's go see.

4 (5m 13s):
So we run up to Daniel's house and we look down and to the fenced, like bottom floor, apartment, courtyard area. And we just see blood and we're like, oh my God, this is like real. This is not a rumor. This is not a joke. It's real, there was a puddle of blood. So we're like, we have to help the cops. Like obviously, like we need to be involved in this because we're spite detectives. So he ran back down to officer cook and we're like, so what happened? And he was like, this woman stabbed her boyfriend and he died and she threw the weapon and we don't know where it is.

3 (5m 57s):
So they hear this and immediately they're like, we're going to find this murder weapon.

4 (6m 3s):
And it's so weird because I mean, that's impossible. How do you find a murder weapon? But we just knew we were going to find a swept in this apartment complex is our world. So we know every hiding spot because we've hid stuff there.

2 (6m 19s):
Oh, it's all coming together. Or they're hiding.

3 (6m 21s):
Yeah. They either have his stuff there or they've hidden their themselves. And, and so they go sit at the top of the stairs and they just start like brainstorming. They're like, all right, where could this murder weapon be? Could it be in the ditch that runs behind the building? Could it be in the field out back? And then Molly has this idea.

4 (6m 40s):
Let's look on the car. Ports.

3 (6m 44s):
Why?

4 (6m 45s):
Well, think of it as like you have something of your siblings and you're going to hide it because you don't want them to have it. Well, we would throw it up onto the car port because we know we knew there was no way they could get it once it's up there.

3 (7m 1s):
So the car parts, they're like 10 feet high, you know, you parked under them and it's impossible to see the top of them from the ground, but you can easily see it. If you go to an upstairs apartment and Ariel's apartment overlooks, the car ports that are closest to the murder.

4 (7m 16s):
So we run up aerial stairs and her bedroom window looks to the back of the apartment where the car ports are. And we are looking on her car port and we see a knife and we're like, oh my God, that's it. That's the knife. She used to kill her boyfriend.

3 (7m 36s):
And when you first saw the knife, were you just shocked?

4 (7m 38s):
Yeah, we were so shocked. Cause we're like, there's no way we just solved this sack quickly.

2 (7m 44s):
That is really quick. Yeah.

3 (7m 46s):
So quick. I mean, if you think about it, police have been working on this for hours and this is the very first place that they looked.

4 (7m 52s):
So he run down the stairs, back to officer cook and we're like, there's a knife on the car port above Ariel's apartment. And they're like, what? And we're like, yeah.

3 (8m 1s):
And the officers are like, okay, yeah, we'll, we'll get to that in a minute kids. And then when they do, they come upstairs and look out the window and to their shock, they see the murder weapon. And then they send an officer out there with a ladder to climb the car port.

4 (8m 16s):
And I remember the officer like had like, you know, one of those bags for evidence and he picked it up and there was blood dried on it. And he put it in the bag and they were like, great job girls. And we were like, thanks. You know, we're here anytime you need us.

2 (8m 34s):
That is exactly the way the dialogue goes in the Disney TV version of this story.

3 (8m 39s):
Well, you know, the girls for them, this is this huge triumph. I mean, everyone in the whole complex finds out that the girls solve this murder.

4 (8m 46s):
We were so excited. We were so proud of ourselves because we did it. Like we proved we could do it

3 (8m 60s):
When she got older, Molly would tell this story. And when she did, she would play it for laughs. But then something happened recently. She was telling it to one of her coworkers also from Texas. And they're doing missing where they're swapping, like only in Texas stories. And she gets to this one

4 (9m 15s):
And I think it was more her reaction to it that made me realize, oh, that's not actually like a funny story to tell. That's like a serious thing that happened to me. Like I'm a child. And I just saw a puddle of blood on the ground and found the real knife that killed this real human being.

3 (9m 38s):
It was being able to see that blood on the knife. That's what stuck with her the most. And also the, they, they sent people in to clean up that puddle of blood with bleach and you know, sh shoot, you can remember the smell of that. And watching that, like the blood spread over the pavement

4 (9m 55s):
And where were my parents, you know, did we ever have a conversation about this? Do they even care? How do you solve a murder? And like, there are no adults around, how do you leapfrog across the highway? I mean, it doesn't, you know, it doesn't mean I had a bad childhood, but I would never follow any of the rules that they followed as parents.

2 (10m 29s):
WVC Chicago. It's this American life from our class today on our program, we have stories of stuff that happens when the grownups are not around or they are there, but you wouldn't know it. They stay so fully on the sidelines, leaving the kids to figure things out on their own. Sometimes with incredible resilience and inventiveness and good level-headed judgment. Sometimes not stay with us at one magically malicious. So this all started pretty small bunch of little kids left alone in a classroom.

2 (11m 11s):
Not even, not long before it became a school-wide citywide fiasco that the kids had to make sense of. Louis Sullivan tells a story.

6 (11m 22s):
You know, those really vivid early childhood memories, the ones where even though they happened so long ago, you recall them more clearly than you remember most things for David ketose his album when he was seven in second grade, back in 1993, his PE teacher told their class we're going to watch a movie today.

7 (11m 40s):
And she, you know, she rolled the AAV cart with the TV and the VCR on it. She popped in a blockbuster rental there, whatever it was, she pressed play. She turned off the lights and walked away. She made mention of the fact that she needed to go to the teacher's lounge to make copies. I don't know of what, but she was just gone. And we were just there.

6 (12m 8s):
The movie leprechaun, maybe you're familiar that if you're not leprechaun is a 1993 horror film starring a young Jennifer Aniston it's radar. It's about a leprechaun who goes on a murderous rampage to try to hunt down his stolen pot of gold,

8 (12m 24s):
Try as they win. And Jaya's they

5 (12m 29s):
Who

8 (12m 29s):
Steals Vigo or live through the night.

7 (12m 34s):
We're sitting there watching the movie. And I remember immediately people being afraid and people being giddy with excitement at the same time where there was kids who are just like, oh, I've seen this. My older brothers showed me this and it's scary. And everyone else is just like, I don't know about this.

6 (12m 55s):
David remembers thinking, what the hell is happening?

9 (12m 59s):
I'm going to Michelle.

7 (13m 1s):
Oh, I hated it. It was terrifying. I remember people crying and everyone had this. You have to stay in your seats. And we're going to obey because an adult told this to

6 (13m 13s):
Here's. Some of the things that happened in this movie, there are scenes of the leprechaun biting off a face. Also in the ear. He snares people in bear traps. He snapped the neck of a bloody police officer. Then rips that officer's eyes from his courts only to shove set eye into his own gouged out eye socket. It's stupid and scary. Oh. And also language. And again, these kids are in second grade, like seven years old.

7 (13m 45s):
And I remember, especially in scenes where like the leprechaun was attacking people, that there were kids who were holding their eyes to their desk, or like doing the heads up seven up where you put your head down. And there were kids who were like, had their hands over their ears.

6 (14m 5s):
This was near Halloween kids. Remember the teacher saying she put the movie on to get everyone in the holiday spirit, which worked for some kids. David says some of them were into it. And that's where it got complicated

7 (14m 17s):
Because the kids who were putting their heads down at their desks and covering their ears were, were being ridiculed by the bully kids. Because why are you scared white? Why are you scared of this? This isn't scary. This is funny. Well, I guess I should also point out I went to a school that was entirely Mexican American as I was. And the only reason I say that is because in Mexican-American culture, there is this like cultural pressure to like be tough.

6 (14m 51s):
Particularly in his neighborhood. David says the place he grew up was basically all Mexican, all working class, but also had a reputation for being kind of a tough part of town.

7 (15m 1s):
And so oftentimes instances we're siblings are helping to raise one another. I seen some things. There was a number of kids in the class who were walking to school by themselves at six years old or seven years old. And we had some rough ass kids and those rough ass kids had way different perspectives than the kids whose parents tried to keep scary things away from them. And so half the class was enjoying the horror movie and half the class was terrified and crying. At some point, the teacher came back into the room, saw that people were like visibly crying, like solid people were crying and were visibly upset.

7 (15m 45s):
And then admonish the kids for crying. She said, why are y'all crying? This is a holiday movie. And I was just like, all right, beg to differ. But, and then it was just like, y'all, you know, y'all need to toughen up that kind of thing. And then she said, okay, well, if you don't want to watch it, I don't want to teach. And so you can sit outside and sitting outside wasn't it was like sitting on the steps and they were the outside main entrance steps to the school.

6 (16m 17s):
His teacher didn't want to speak to me for the story, David. And about half a dozen of his classmates walked outside stunned.

7 (16m 25s):
We were sitting on the steps and no one was talking, no one was saying anything.

6 (16m 30s):
And he like trying to comfort each other or anything like that.

7 (16m 34s):
No, we were all suffering independently next to each other.

6 (16m 44s):
When school was finally over David's aunt picked him up like usual.

7 (16m 48s):
And I told her, yeah, this thing happened at school. Like we saw something and she was concerned because I couldn't even get the words out. I was just, you know, scared to talk about it, I guess,

6 (16m 58s):
Which was really unlike him. David was a chatty hyper verbal kid, the smart kid in class. So when he was suddenly unable to talk, she and David's mom knew something was wrong, but they didn't get why he was freaking out so bad about some movie, about leprechauns.

7 (17m 15s):
And so my older cousins came home and were just like, no, that's a horror movie. No, they, they couldn't have shown that to the kids. There's no justification for that.

6 (17m 25s):
David's cousins like a lot of older cousins. We're kind of a weird mix between body guards and tormentors. Like this is our nerd. No one messes with him, but us David's mom <inaudible> says that after the movie, David couldn't sleep alone for weeks.

12 (17m 42s):
He wouldn't didn't want to take a shower behind a closed curtain. I had to sit in the bathroom with him cause he was old enough to shower and in by himself. But I had to sit in there, have the curtain semi-open and say, I'm here, son. Go ahead. Especially when I had to wash his hair and his face, you know, like when he washed it, if he closed his eyes, I had to make sure I held his hand.

6 (18m 4s):
David felt like anytime his eyes were closed, he might open them and find a demon leprechaun attacking him. He'll be the told me that after the movie, there's a way that fear just kind of wormed its way into the rest of David's life. Like at the grocery store, he did told me he was afraid to go down the Halloween aisle. Didn't like seeing the masks or anything. Costumey, he'll beat the bottom of Batman nightlight. He'd never been afraid of the dark before. A lot of people have a movie like this. When you're a kid, the movie you see way too young after what you kind of can't get your life back.

6 (18m 47s):
Sometimes it's the Exorcist or something. Or I heard from someone who could never recover after seeing a documentary about acid rain and second grade science class. For me, it was the piano, a period drama with Holly hunter about frontiersman New Zealand in 18 hundreds. It's radar for moments of quote, extremely graphic sexuality. Also a guy chops off his wife's finger with an ax, which I will never not remember saw when I was 10. I don't know why I didn't turn it off for what it's worth. I'm also Latina toughness was a point of pride in my family too. But the big difference between David and me is that I saw that movie and it was over.

6 (19m 31s):
I didn't talk about it. It did everything I could to shut it out. That wasn't possible for David because in David's case, over 200 kids in his school went through this mandatory horror together. All at once four teachers played the movie to a bunch of classes. Second graders up through fifth graders. Parents all started calling each other about it and calling the school. So David couldn't put it away cause it was all, anyone would talk about became the thing that happened that year. And if you think this is the point where adults come in and make things better, it's not because what happened instead was what happens a lot of the time when you're a kid and adults swoop in to try to solve something, which is, they sometimes make it so much worse.

13 (20m 23s):
This is Fox news, 1230

14 (20m 26s):
Houston elementary school teachers are under fire for showing an R rated movie to students.

6 (20m 31s):
Someone's mom called the news.

15 (20m 33s):
The leprechaun controversy started at Browning elementary more than 200 grounding students.

16 (20m 37s):
Leprechaun is a violent tale of a murderous L I

17 (20m 40s):
Think it was nasty.

15 (20m 42s):
What do you mean? Nasty,

17 (20m 43s):
Nasty parts and 30 words.

15 (20m 46s):
Parents and relatives are

9 (20m 47s):
Outraged. Terrible.

18 (20m 49s):
Think there's something that should have been done at school. I think it should've been done in home.

19 (20m 52s):
Never helped me with the terminology. Here is Browning on that list of what they call troubled or unacceptable schools or whatever

6 (20m 58s):
David's mom happens to be one of those moms who kept the news on all the time.

7 (21m 1s):
And whenever the local Houston newscasters would talk about it, they would show a clip of the movie in the background. So it'd be a voiceover over stock footage of the leprechaun

16 (21m 12s):
And hurt them. He does in some rather graphic ways.

6 (21m 19s):
So now David would be at home, sitting at the kitchen table, just doing his homework and suddenly the leprechauns demented visage with spring into sight out of nowhere, terrifying him a new each time like in that news clip, this whole lab, he played one. He played Pogo on his lung. What's happening in this clip is a leprechaun is jumping on a Pogo stick on top of man's chest. Somehow impaling him with each jump, blood spreading everywhere. This was on the news all the time. I have 27 different clips I could find with every story, the

16 (21m 56s):
Footage

19 (21m 57s):
And they say this movie should not have been shown at all.

6 (22m 4s):
Well, Beto would scramble to cover David's eyes and mute, but she couldn't always get there. Fast enough, 330 parents signed a petition asking that the school fire, the teachers for weeks reporters were at the school and the two factions of kids, the ones who were terrified by the movie and the ones who thought those kids were losers, basically ended up making their case on TV, making the divide between the scared kids and the brave kids, even wider. And so public and you know, who came off really well, the brave kids,

16 (22m 41s):
But other children, we talked, let's say it was no big deal. If you think the movie was too scary to bit surprised to be seeing a movie like this in class.

9 (22m 51s):
Nope.

6 (22m 53s):
Thanks a lot. And Rica Lopez

16 (22m 54s):
Too scary for somebody, you,

6 (22m 55s):
But a few kids did talk about how scared they were. The one everyone remembers

16 (22m 60s):
Little chastity walked out of class during the movie.

9 (23m 3s):
I saw half of it and, and the movie in the person came out and it was ugly.

16 (23m 11s):
So the movie scared you.

9 (23m 13s):
Yes,

6 (23m 15s):
Chastity. It was one of the kids on the steps with David that day. It was different for her though. She told me it wasn't so much the movie itself that she was afraid of.

21 (23m 24s):
No, it was more scared for my soul. I guess this was like the height of the satanic panic. And my parents were like, holy roller people. And I had been told as a child, like my whole life Satan could get to you from things like movies or bad books.

6 (23m 44s):
Chassidy only watched a couple of minutes of the movie before she'd booked it out of the classroom. Less than five. She was sure. Was that enough for Satan?

21 (23m 52s):
I mean, I was literally frightened that I had in some way, participated enough to where the devil would come and invade my soul,

6 (24m 5s):
Not the sort of kid who wants to end up on TV, but one afternoon reporters are in front of the school interviewing her mom who is not just outraged, but also the mom talking on the news the most about her outrage and Chassidy is just standing there next to her feeling embarrassed.

21 (24m 21s):
And I felt like everybody was looking at me and people were like kind of laughing and stuff. And I kind of stood out like a sore thumb anyways, cause I was

6 (24m 32s):
Chastity by the way, this was the only white kid in her class,

21 (24m 35s):
Like pale with blonde hair and blue eyes. So I felt like I couldn't just disappear, blend in even if I wanted to. But I remember talking to the reporters and I just remember them asking, you know, how did it make you feel? Or how was the movie? And I just said, it was scary.

6 (24m 52s):
The kids at school ran with that. She'd pass kids in the hall and they'd yell. It was scary behind her. And Chassidy had never been one of the coolest kids to begin with.

21 (25m 3s):
I had a lot of friends and most people were nice to me, but I also was very insecure at a lot of issues at home. And then just to like physically how different I was and everybody else. And then with this whole situation, it just brought more attention to me. I felt like, and I felt like I was bullied more. Like I cried about it, for sure. So it's like the little phrase that has gone down in infamy. I guess she was like, it was scary. Like, yeah,

6 (25m 43s):
God,

21 (25m 44s):
Because I'm 35 now. And I will still, when I run into people from elementary school or someone gets in contact with me on social media, they'll still say the whole, it was scary. And it's like, it kind of feels like sometimes if people don't even remember the whole situation, they remember that it was scary part. And that was like the soundbite, I guess, because whenever they ran out of material to kind of make fun of me with that, it would revert back to that

6 (26m 14s):
Because of it was scary. And the fact that her mom was so vocal on the news, chastity says kids and teachers blamed her for squealing to her mom and for bringing all this chaos and negative attention to the school. When chastity looks back on all of this, there's a whole list of adults who put her in this situation, her mom, the TV reporter who made her, the poster child for the losers, her parents and church who told her the devil would come after her. She saw a movie like this. And of course her teacher who showed her the movie, the four teachers who'd shown the movie were all removed from the school. Two were substitutes who were taken off the list of subs, the school to call the two full-time teachers were suspended for 10 days and then reassigned to other schools in the district, including David and Chassidy's teacher.

6 (27m 3s):
The teachers apologized David and Chassidy's teachers said she owned the movie, but didn't know what was on it. That's the closest thing I've found to an explanation for all this There was one thing the adults at school did to try to more directly help the kids. But you also want a little weird, David remembers a woman coming to his class. She told them she was a grief counselor

7 (27m 30s):
As like an introduction that said like, hi, I'm here to talk about things. If you have any fears or concerns, that's exactly what I'm here for

6 (27m 39s):
Which David thought that sounds okay. I do have fears and concerns, but when she started the session, he didn't like how she started.

7 (27m 48s):
If anyone would like to talk about what they saw in leprechaun, please come to like the nurse's office now or whatever office they had a son. And you had to raise your hand after they asked.

6 (28m 2s):
So basically they were just like, is anyone here still afraid of the leprechaun thing? Raise your hand. If so, like what did you do? Do you raise your hand? Or like, did you,

7 (28m 11s):
Yes. We literally stood up and walked to the nurse's office as a group, a group of sad kids and all the asshole kids were just like making fun of everyone who stood up or raised their hand. It was just like, you're a wuss. You wet the bed, you have bad dreams. Like you suck that kind of thing.

6 (28m 32s):
Let me just point out the structural flaw. This plan, let's ask the kids who are already being teased to self, identify as weenies in front of their peers and get marched away as a group. Anyway, the grief counselor sat the sad kids down and their sad little group.

7 (28m 48s):
She starts asking us questions and the questions are presumably basic grief, counselor questions. What's your name? Do you feel safe at home? What's your home life? Like?

6 (28m 59s):
The question is appropriate for kids who are experiencing loss or abuse or neglect, not necessarily leprechaun specific and then time ran out. And that was it. It was definitely wasn't worth the public shaming. So when she came to class, the next time a lot of the kids would come to the first session, dropped out David for whatever reason when again.

7 (29m 21s):
And so the grief counselor, again, she just starts asking basic questions about who you are and if you feel safe. And I remember raising my hand and being like, are we going to talk about the leprechaun? Are we going to talk about how to kill this thing? Because in my mind it was a real fear. The six year old me, it was like is bullshit. Like this, this counselor is not worth a damn, she's not giving us practical advice. Why are we wasting time talking about this? We need to focus on killing the fucking leprechaun And I remember asking the grief counselor.

7 (30m 2s):
So if the leprechaun comes, should we just be carrying change with us? Like, do I need to carry gold to exchange my life? Because I think there's a scene in the movie where they distract the leprechaun by throwing coins in the air. I guess the idea was that if they saw coins, they had to count them or pick them up or something. And they were throwing shoes because the leprechaun was like a cobbler and he needed to clean shoes, but it was those types of questions. Like, do I, do I need holy water? Like for real, I need somebody who's educated in this. Who's seen the movie and can tell me the actual practical recipe to killing a leprechaun.

6 (30m 47s):
What did she say?

7 (30m 49s):
I remember like her being kind of taken aback by the questions and, and just giving the same kind of stock answer of like this isn't real, this isn't something you should have to worry about, which is not helpful. It felt more like, oh, let's send her to the poor brown school and make sure the kids are all right.

6 (31m 11s):
David just remembers feeling like the message he was getting from adults kept being like the problems in the movie. The problem is your reaction. There's no reason to be so scared. David didn't agree again. He was a really bright kid in a class with other bright kids.

7 (31m 28s):
And so people were more able to express like, yo, I don't have anything at home that I'm really worried about. I'm just really worried about the leprechaun or I'm afraid of the dark or, you know, one girl wet the bed as a result of it, which is sad and true.

6 (31m 42s):
How do you know that?

7 (31m 44s):
Cause we had to disclose these things in this fucking group session to this goddamn grief counselor.

6 (31m 50s):
So the grief counselor was like, has anyone in here? What the bed? And someone had to raise their hands?

7 (31m 55s):
Oh yeah. Somebody had to opt into that. Right. And it was a little girl in my class.

6 (32m 2s):
I remember her name

7 (32m 5s):
Lopez, please bleep that out.

6 (32m 11s):
Hopefully fit. Oh David. So consider it all these years later, you know it wasn't so discreet. Lopez's mom. She told the news,

22 (32m 23s):
Geez, urinating in her bed and she doesn't want to sleep alone. She's just, I just have a lot of problems with her right now.

6 (32m 32s):
Parents am I right?

2 (32m 43s):
It's one of the producers of our show coming up, teenagers left in a room with other teenagers at church. What could possibly go wrong? There? That's an a minute from Chicago public radio. When our program continues

Squarespace (33m 0s):
Support for this American life comes from Squarespace. Squarespace is the all-in-one platform for building your brand and growing your business online, stand out with a beautiful website, engage with your audience and sell anything. Your products, content you create. And even your time get started with a best in class website template and customize it to fit your needs. Stand out in any inbox with Squarespace, email campaigns and every Squarespace website and online store comes with a suite of integrated features and useful guides that help maximize prominence among search results had do squarespace.com/american for a free trial. And when you're ready to launch use offer code American to save 10% off your first purchase of a website or domain

BetterHelp (33m 37s):
support for this American life comes from better help. Online therapy. Life can be overwhelming and many are burned out without knowing it burnout is related not only to your career, but also to your role as a parent caretaker or friend, if you're losing motivation, feeling helpless or detaching from loved ones, talking with someone can help identify what's causing burnout better help wants to help you prioritize yourself. Offering customized therapy through video phone and live chat sessions with a licensed therapist, get 10% off your first month of online therapy@betterhealth.com slash T a L. That's better lp.com/t a L

Modern Love (34m 14s):
Hey, this American life listeners, I'm Anna Martin, the host of the modern love podcast. In every episode, we peek into an intimate corner of someone's life and learn about what love means to them. You know, I can tell you 35 years with another person, I've never spent that much time with anyone else either. So we both kind of said, I love you pretty Fast. My advice is that it's okay. If it's hard, You can listen to modern love wherever you get your podcasts.

2 (34m 45s):
This American life from IRA glass today's program, the kids' table stories of what happens when the kids are on their own. The grownups have left the room and the kids have to figure things out by themselves. We arrived at act two of our program, act two classified dad. This story is about what happens when an adult really is never around at all for a long time. And the strange consequences and desires that can come out of that. Chris bender of explained

27 (35m 14s):
In 2018, Georgie Cod was on a cruise with her mom. And the day this all started was not as fun as she'd imagined. Their ship had been scheduled to dock at the picture S Shetland islands off the Northern coast of Scotland. But instead because of bad weather, the boat had docked in an unremarkable industrial Scottish town.

28 (35m 33s):
We were rerouted to a port called Invergordon, which possibly has a lot going for it. But I'd imagine that we'd be in Shetland having this wonderful time looking at tiny horses cause Shetland ponies. And instead, we went into a very dreary museum looking at like a reproduction stethoscope from 1965. And then Peter, our friend pizza popped up.

27 (35m 57s):
Peter was a 70 year old man from Wales who Georgie and her mom had met in the cruise ships dining hall a few days earlier. He told them corny jokes and a lot of stories from his days as a firefighter, they liked him. And now in the museum, he invited the two of them to go get coffee.

28 (36m 13s):
We found this community cafe and the three of us sat down on a table, which had an empty seat. And about two, three minutes later, a woman came up who none of us had met before, but it was also on the cruise ship. And she asked us, could she sit and join us on the table? And without skipping a beat, Peter said, oh, I was just telling my wife and daughter, it'd be lovely to have some company. And she sat down, none. The wiser, my mum, I think groaned possibly rolled her eyes. And then he'd spotted my mum's reaction to what he'd said.

28 (36m 56s):
And he, and he corrected himself. Oh, ex-wife ex-wife. We liked, we liked to go on holiday, still for Georgina to keep the family together.

27 (37m 11s):
Georgie's mom mostly sat out this practical joke. Georgie, meanwhile, tried to gauge whether Peter was really going to keep this up. He was,

28 (37m 20s):
He was saying things like, oh, Georgina's very clever. She's a writer. She's published a book. She did really well at school.

27 (37m 29s):
All true, by the way, Georgie decided to play along,

28 (37m 32s):
Oh, pox works in the fire service. You know, he's a retired firefighter. He used to go up and down the town and Swanzey asking the ladies to get on his fire truck. And I've no doubt. The women thought we were very strange family, but she seemed to believe that we were a family.

27 (37m 51s):
Eventually Peter Georgie and her mom said goodbye to the woman and left out in the street. They laughed proud of pulling off the stupid little caper as they walked back to the ship. Peter mentioned to Georgie,

28 (38m 3s):
You know, I always wondered what it'd be like to have a daughter. And I thought immediately, wow, I've always wanted what it'd be like to have a dad.

27 (38m 20s):
George, his dad wasn't with her on this cruise because he wasn't in her life. Never had been left before. Georgie was even born. When she was 25, she found out where he lived and arranged a visit. She packed her bags and was on her way to the station. When she got a call from her uncle telling her that her dad had died, he'd had health issues. The closest she got to him was at the funeral. So she'd never had a father figure in her life until in a really small, silly way. Does 15 minutes in the cafe with Peter, it's been such an odd thing, but it felt so good and so unusual. And she just wanted to see, could that be a relationship that she'd have in her life, an older man to give advice and make dad jokes and be proud.

28 (39m 4s):
It's like he lit a little spark or something. I felt very elated. It seemed like a little door had opened or I glimpsed something.

27 (39m 15s):
What, what would you say that was?

28 (39m 18s):
Hmm. I think, I think it was a need to feel acceptable and lovable. Bye bye men. Without a hidden agenda.

27 (39m 39s):
This is sort of a big thing to discover on a sightseeing trip to Invergordon that she wanted a dad's love, but it stuck with her. She didn't join Peter's improvisation, but that wasn't exactly what she was after then, George, you got an idea and you should know, Georgia is the type of person who gets very creative. When she tries to solve a problem. She wants to worked in a funeral parlor to deal with her fear of death, took scuba diving lessons cause she was scared of fish. And so she made an ad for a dad classified ad. It said she was looking for someone to act as a father figure nothing sexual she could be reached at, never had a dad, eighty7@gmail.com.

27 (40m 21s):
Georgie figured a lot of the men who could be her father still read actual newspapers and magazines.

28 (40m 26s):
So I started with the magazine called new scientist because I thought I'd quite like a dad who knows science. And I decided for the advert to run just after Christmas because all the dad type folks would have got subscriptions for their Christmas presents. So the numbers would

27 (40m 48s):
So sensible. That's very strategic.

28 (40m 50s):
I was yeah, very strategic, very strategic.

27 (40m 55s):
As you might expect. She heard from a lot of creepy older guys, but they weren't all like that. Many people saw the ad for what it was and seemed genuinely interested. She emailed with a bunch of them in particular, this one guy Clive he was in his sixties had had kids from multiple marriages, was estranged from one of his children. Something, he seems sad about Georgie and Clive emailed for weeks. And then started talking on the phone to,

28 (41m 22s):
I mean the first time on the phone, we both acknowledged the awkwardness of it, which was a great icebreaker and a green flag for me,

27 (41m 31s):
Clive stood out from all the other fake dads. She'd emailed with

28 (41m 35s):
Some of these guys. They were just waxing, lyrical about life and the universe and everything. But Clive was very engaged and remembered details that I told him, showed a real interest in me and my life. And I was interested in him and his life. And he was open about struggles that he'd had with mental health and alcohol. And we would easily be on the phone for 90 minutes, two hours. I think we clicked. We just clicked.

27 (42m 10s):
They talked about kids. Georgie was wondering if she should have them. And they talked politics more than she liked, even though their politics were the same

28 (42m 18s):
Brexit, Brexit would come up. So often I guess much like a daughter might do to their dad, which is like, oh, let me, can we just talk shit? She was just talking about something else, this about something else. So I have babies are not common Clive tell me

27 (42m 41s):
They never met face-to-face but they talk on the phone maybe every month or so for a year and a half.

28 (42m 47s):
It was going really well. After a while though, things shifted a little bit and we had this phone call and towards the end of the call, he said that he had been drinking and he started telling me that he, he loved me and why wouldn't I call more regularly? He would love it if I would just call more regularly. And I felt cornered. And it wasn't anything like the tone of conversation we'd had for all those months up to that point. And I got scared and I wrapped, wrapped it up and I emailed him that I didn't feel able to be in that relationship anymore.

28 (43m 36s):
Having heard what he'd said in that call,

27 (43m 39s):
What did it do to you that 18 months into what seemed like a kind of successful fake dad situation that, that he had actually seen it romantically.

28 (43m 52s):
It's interesting, but that you say romantic because actually it didn't feel like he was being romantic. Even though he was saying, I love you. And I, you know, I didn't feel like he wanted to get in bed with me or anything. It just felt like he was so craved. He was so craving the company,

27 (44m 13s):
Which is to say, she'd gotten exactly what she'd asked for a relationship. Like what a lot of people have with their parents who understandably want more phone calls and time and attention.

28 (44m 25s):
And I couldn't be there. I couldn't call all the time. And I bailed. I think I got scared and went into hiding. I felt, I felt I still feel extremely guilty and sad about that.

27 (44m 49s):
It's been six months since she emailed Clive, which by the way is not his real name. She couldn't bring herself to look in the inbox again until our interview. He still hasn't written back. Georgie is still in touch with the guy on the boat. The one who gave her the idea in the first place, Peter, they talk now. And then my friendly, while back, he mailed her a box of cakes when she was feeling down. And by the way, when she told him about the ad, he was horrified and worried you're going to get murdered. He told her just like a real dad would say,

2 (45m 30s):
Chris Benderev is a producer here at our shop. The three stations of the double cross. So show today is about kids trying to make sense of what happens when grownups are not around and in this act it's religious kids and the mischief they get into, even when they're trying to do right by God, Michelle Navarro attended a church retreat. When she was in middle school, she has changed the names in this story.

29 (46m 0s):
I've been hearing about the retreat for years. It happened every Easter at my local Catholic parish on the Southwest side of Chicago. And at 13, when I was finally old enough, I thought I should go. I always noticed the effect that chanting prayers and rosaries had on the adults. In my family. It was the only place I saw their faces fully rested at peace and wondered why didn't I feel any of it. I was sending in between them, but I was an outsider. Don't get me wrong. I was a good kid. Got good grades, spent a lot of time in libraries and books. Sections of thrift stores went to catechism classes in mass every week, but Catholicism, I couldn't make any sense of it.

29 (46m 43s):
And I really wanted to This four day retreat, it was run by the youth group at the parish, a group of teens from my neighborhood whose mission was to get other teams involved with the church. They hyped it up to us. And the thing they said about it that really got my attention was that every year during this retreat, there was a moment, a moment in the Catholic school, gym basement, where they found Jesus felt his unconditional love the, describe this moment as warm and right. And that it was when they knew they wanted to serve him. They called it a new phone, love a new phone purpose, a change in perspective, which is what I felt I needed.

29 (47m 22s):
Exactly. I hadn't been waiting around for revelation and epiphany and thought that this retreat is where I could feel it. So I signed up The second day of the retreat was good Friday and they took us or heard of 13 to 17 year old Mexican American kids to watch the annual neighborhood reenactment of the crucifixion. Every year, there was a long hair. Jesus, this year performed by a former youth leader, whose name was in fact Jesus. Well, his suits. He wore nothing but a thorny crown on his head and a white bed sheet wrapped around his crotch.

29 (48m 2s):
About eight men followed around him, dressed in full party city, Roman soldier, costume attire, with red capes and plastic helmets and whips. They would snap at Jesus' feet as he hold a winning cross. Three times this size around my neighborhood, a priest followed in the back of a pickup truck with a big loud speaker to read each station of the cross. Local cart vendors were posted up selling corn and bottles. Think Mexican. Snowcones my favorite friend from catechism class crystal who had edgy, dyed red hair, but was never too cool to participate. Walked with me and got some corn along the way. One of the youth leaders, Jose noticed that me and the girl beside me didn't get one.

29 (48m 44s):
He pointed at us and smiled. You guys don't want one. Yes, I got you. We shyly declined. The team leaders walked and talked to us, asked us what school you went to, which boys did the retreat. We thought were cute. Crystal made fun of our catechism teacher. Jesse. One of the more stricter ones, Jesse was talking about the 10 commandments and got to shall not kill. She said, Benyo raised his hand and was like, isn't your brother in the army. The whole class laughed. And he got kicked out. The team leaders laughed. So crystal and I were like, oh, they think we're funny. And so we kept going, running through all the other priests and directors. So once you're there, best impressions of father.

29 (49m 24s):
Greg are one white priest whose Spanish was terrible. He couldn't roll his R's. And so that their mom doesn't go to the mass anymore when he's there because she doesn't understand him. Everyone laughed. We followed the procession all the way to the actual crucifixion at the top of a hill in Cinco park. And then suddenly the mood shifted. The youth leaders seem to straighten up. They got serious. Stop talking to us. Retreaters and started to whispering among themselves. We all need to get to the church ASAP. One of them said they run the dose up. Once we were out of the park and started a headcount.

29 (50m 5s):
When we got back to the gym, the team leaders continue to be quiet. Everyone needs to sit down and form a circle around the room. A youth leader said, now retreaters whispered rumors of what could have happened. Maybe someone was ditching during the walk, or they caught someone smoking weed out of an apple from the snack table, Mauricio, the one adult supervising the retreat, walked into the room, looking down at the floor with his hands in his pockets. He stood in the middle of the circle and took his sweet time to look up at us. Look at <inaudible> look at our software for absolute <inaudible>. What happened today?

29 (50m 46s):
What happened out there was absolutely disrespectful. Now seeing this in Spanish, really kick things up a notch. The whole retreat was in English up until this point and getting schooled in an English was something we got from our teachers at school. But for kids like us, hearing disappointment in the language, your parents spoke, made it all much more intense. He paced around the circle. He stopped again, shook his head at the floor. We were participating in the crucifixion of Jesus Christ, our Lord and savior who carried the weight of the cross to which he was destined to be nailed to who took the whipping of the Romans and his mother, our Virgin Mary wash, her son suffer for what?

29 (51m 29s):
For all you to take a joyful walk in the neighborhood to buy your <inaudible> and talk and laugh, his voice trembled. And he started to tear up. You had one hand over his eyes. He walked to the podium and grabbed the heavy crucifix. <inaudible> every single one of you should feel ashamed. He shouted. How could you call yourself a child of God? We can't stand there with him. When he sacrifices for you. When he is suffering, he held the crucifix tight to his chest and continue to cry. It was my first time seeing a grown man cry in real life. He was out of breath at times in between the yelling and the crying.

29 (52m 10s):
There were mistakes still and no one was making eye contact with each other. I quickly tried to recall the whole walk in my head and what I was doing, thinking, oh shit, I was talking. Was I talking loud? Did I laugh? Damn, I did laugh. Panicked. I looked at crystal to see how she was taking it. And I noticed tears were streaming down her face. She was still loosely holding the corner and the cop she bought, she got up, threw it out. And a bunch of retreaters began to do the same. You see this, he held up the large crucifix and quickly walked towards the center of the circle. This, this is what you did today. He yelled. He slammed the crucifix, the center of the circle.

29 (52m 53s):
I closed my eyes as ceramic hit the floor. It shattered scattering pieces all over. There was a collective flinch and gasp Mauricio walked out. It was like watching someone spit out the way for you to get a communion back into the priests hands. I looked around to see a lot of retreaters. Heads-down hearing disrupted breaths from crying. This girl, Carla, who went to the same middle school as me and was known to be somewhat a troublemaker was sitting right behind me. She took a deep sigh and what the exhale let out. Oh, what the fuck?

29 (53m 33s):
Which in a way was exactly what I was thinking. Dude, be fucking respectful. So the boy sitting behind her dude, don't see fucking, we at church said another whisper behind him. You just said it. Carla quickly snapped a collective. Shh, followed. I turned and looked at Carla. She leaned in smacked her lips and whispered man do this. Every year at a Sally told me I couldn't even process it. So this is an act that they put on every year to make us feel bad. That seemed really unhinged like every year, Mauricio cries, yells and breaks a crucifix.

29 (54m 20s):
As I was trying to make sense of it. My neighbor Sophia, who happens to be one of the youth leaders, walked to the center of the circle, microphone in hand, still crying. The other youth leaders took turns, hugging her. Finally, she wiped away. Her tears. Don't worry. You guys. She said she raised one of her arms up into the air, close her eyes. Spanish gospel music began to crescendo in the background like a movie. I look over at the speaker to see a youth leader slowly turning up the volume, not The rest of the youth leaders followed Sophia in closing their eyes too slowly. The crowd of retreat kids still sitting on the floor did the same.

29 (55m 3s):
Sophia opened her eyes and looked up at the ceiling. If we repent, he will forgive us. I looked up along with everyone else pressed against the ceiling. I could see soccer balls that had been kicked too high and gotten stuck. I glance around the room and at crystal who was right next to me, she was completely moved, listening and crying. Transfixed was this, the moment was this what they were talking about? And was this what I came for On the walk home? I told my mom the whole story. She was surprised. And that the breaking of the crucifix was more disrespectful to God than the eating and talking during the reenactment.

29 (55m 50s):
The part my dad couldn't get over, throwing away, perfectly good food. He said that was a real sin guilting kids into that. It didn't fully set until that night, the lengths they had gone to, to play with their feelings that a grown man, that it wouldn't be appropriate to pretend to be angry, that the team leaders chatted us up. Try to be cool with us only to throw it in our faces and use it against us. I wondered how many times he could have possibly done this. And how many kids never learned that it was scripted or I guess eventually did when they became the ones who tried to pull this on others.

29 (56m 30s):
I almost didn't go back the next day, but I, for real did think I might get my epiphany. I might get closer to God. I just needed to trust it more. And at the same time, a small part of me thought this was just a two. How far are they going to take this? What other spectacles do they have planned? I didn't want to miss it. I wasn't disappointed. Day three was even weirder. When we all arrived at the gym, there is these tall wood in crate in the middle behind them hung a large white tarp. No one explained it to us.

29 (57m 11s):
Instead, the youth leaders asked us about the times we felt like our parents misunderstood or neglected us. Lots of kids stood up and it got very real. One girl talked about how much her mom expected her to take care of her siblings. Like they were her kids. Someone shared that he was gay and he knew his parents would never accept it. It got to me, it got to all of us. Then one youth leader pulled out a bucket of water balloons. They're filled with paint. She said, throw them at the crates. Let out your anger and frustration at your parents. People hurled them hard. Paint was everywhere.

29 (57m 52s):
When they finished the youth leaders went to the back of the crates and opened them up. Several parents stepped out covered in paint. No one saw this coming. See, see what anger towards your parents does. This is what it does. Look at what y'all did. The room got quiet. The parents look somber. Some of them kept their heads down. Their kids went up to them, stop in their arms and ask them for forgiveness. Leaders told other kids to join them and they did. And just stood there. I looked at the crates and I could tell that the paint couldn't really seep through the small openings.

29 (58m 36s):
They painted the parents before they even went inside. It was like yesterday was just a warmup. There was a pattern of formula. They used, they invited us to be ourselves again, but this time more fully people were being vulnerable and they use it against them. It felt cruel and dishonest and gross in a way. I couldn't describe why did they set it up? So that we'd end up feeling like we had to beg for forgiveness. It was like the only way they knew to bring us closer to God was to trick us. A part of me was still waiting for my epiphany, but now I was sure they wouldn't get me there and have to get there on my own.

2 (59m 20s):
Michelle Navarro is one of the producers on the show.

2 (1h 0m 2s):
No problem. Happy to stay by Sean Cole, the people who put together today's program include Jane Ackerman and the baker. Chris bender episode, chase Michael comedy of Eva Kornfeld Tobin, mono Mickey meek, Michelle Navarro, stone Nelson, Katherine Raymondo and Merissa Robertson texter at least Spiegel Alyssa ship, Lily Sullivan, Christos Sotalol, Matt Tierney, Julia would go. And Diane Wu, our managing editors, Sarah Abdurrahman or senior editors, David Kestenbaum or executive editor is manual Barre special. Thanks today to Eugene Mirman Kara Welker, Katherine Stier Martinez, Brighty, France, Edgar, Stephen CURO, Rebecca O'Connor, Jenna Chandra ward, Fernanda pimiento Stephanie Jenkins and Barbara Dawson, who, by the way, recorded all those news clips we used in the leprechaun story on her VCR long ago, our website, this American life.org.

2 (1h 0m 45s):
We can stream our archive of over 750 episodes for absolutely free. Also there's videos. There's lists of favorite shows. If you're looking for something to listen to, there's tons of other stuff there, again, this American life.org. This is the last new program we were making with Ben Calhoun on our staff. Ben, most recently did that two episode story about a police officer and a KK application in Muskegon earlier this year. But he also worked in our Harper high school show. A few years ago, many political stories. He was a key player on that episode. The one is the Pulitzer and he did, I have to say the world's most definitive journalistic treatment to whether pig bung is being passed off as fake calamari. Ben is a really good editor, which is rare, but good editors who are also great managers.

2 (1h 1m 28s):
Like he is even rarer. He's leaving to go run. One of the most popular podcasts out there. The New York times showed the daily lucky to get him. We will miss him a lot. This American life is delivered to public radio stations by PRX, the public radio exchange. Like there's always real problems. Co-founder Mr. Trey. Maltia, you know, had this cake in the office fridge. And this afternoon I went to grab a slice gone, totally gone. Then I see Tori standing there with a couple of other producers, chocolate all over their faces. Looking. I have to say very guilty. Tori said to me,

4 (1h 2m 4s):
Well, we just got back from my birthday party. We weren't even here

2 (1h 2m 7s):
IRA glass back next week with more stories of this American life. Next week on the podcast, this American life, Mississippi is one of the few states where you lose your right to vote permanently. When you go to prison for lots of different crimes, they don't get it back when you get out when you get off parole, but there is one who will call to get that right back.

31 (1h 2m 54s):
1721 says Gerald layered of Jefferson Davis county.

2 (1h 2m 58s):
Get a bill passed in the state legislature. We watch someone try next week on the podcast or new local public radio station.