0 (1s):
A quick warning. There are curse words that are unbanked in today's episode of the show. If you prefer a beeped version, you can find that at our website, this American life.org, Cassidy's 10, fifth grade at the end of the school year. He's one of the talented extroverts singing in front of everybody, parents and kids with his band. Okay. But here's something that's hard for him. Reading have be okay for stretches. You know, when he already knows the words

2 (37s):
One day, the sun shown. So it was not cold so-called

0 (47s):
But he has dyslexia. So reading an unfamiliar word, he has to decode it.

2 (53s):
If it's a big word that I've never seen before, like that word, I don't know what that says.

0 (58s):
Okay. Let's let's walk through that one.

2 (60s):
Wait, D E D D eh, eh, and

0 (1m 12s):
Here talk me through what you're doing. So you're getting the dare

2 (1m 14s):
D I had to, I had to, if you didn't like in the recording, you might hear me say bed.

0 (1m 21s):
Thinking of the word bed is a way to keep BS and DS straight. This is actually one of the toughest things for Cassidy to learn B's and D's when they're not capitalized

2 (1m 32s):
B's and D's, they look the exact same, but just flip you take a B, it can also be a D and super annoying for a long while.

0 (1m 43s):
So it's easy to get them confused. Yeah. So there's this trick that lots of people with dyslexia taught, they picture the word bed, which if you think about it kind of looks like a bed, like the posts of the B and the D are like the foot board and the headboard of the bed. And then the E is kind of the mattress.

2 (2m 1s):
I pictured the letters and I go for B and then D and then boom,

0 (2m 13s):
There are so many little rules and tricks like this, that some kids with dyslexia use, they have all kinds of names. The fizzle rule, the foster rule, short valve protectors welded sounds. These are the rules of the English language that must've been somehow absorbed, but we are not aware of the mechanics of when to use a long bow or a short bow. When G or G H are silent. They were in dozens of these and then wheeled them like tools one after another to the code, Howard should sound.

2 (2m 42s):
And then, eh, E

0 (2m 45s):
Anyway, back to the coding, this word, which by the way, the word he's trying to read is devastating. What is VAs T how would that sound?

2 (3m 2s):
We owe vast Divaris in Davis. I think I'm doing something wrong.

0 (3m 16s):
Did you guys breaking the word down syllable by syllable? Like his teacher taught him, explains one part of the word is a CVC consonant, vowel continent. He looks for parts of the word that he recognizes.

2 (3m 28s):
I know ink from class and to Vastin

0 (3m 35s):
You living out the metal window,

2 (3m 38s):
DVS acting divest. I really don't know.

0 (3m 44s):
You're very close. You want me to give you a hint? Sure. Okay. This one is a long, long a so it's 18

2 (3m 52s):
DVS, eight vasty Dean.

0 (3m 58s):
Do you know that word? Devastating.

2 (3m 59s):
Devastating. I do know that word

0 (4m 3s):
That is so much work.

2 (4m 5s):
It is really

0 (4m 14s):
Later. I asked his teacher what role might have gotten in there. And she said magic. E if you'd recognize that the ING in devastating, might've been replacing an E on the end of the word that final, he would have told them how to pronounce the Tate and devastate. So many rules to remember and irritatingly. So many exceptions to the rules. You have to memorize.

2 (4m 37s):
For example, salmon, it would be pronounced salmon, but it's salmon. Like why there's so many words that are like, deal with it.

0 (4m 52s):
And so Cassidy's in this situation where things that seem to come so easily to other kids, he has to work so much harder at cause I can, can become as fluent in reading as anybody else. But it's like to go the mile that other kids go, they go 10 miles and need every navigation tool and touch everybody to grass along the way before they get there. Other kids really don't understand this.

2 (5m 15s):
Yeah. They're like, why can't you read that? And I'm like, I have dyslexia. I mean, it doesn't feel terrible. It's not like making me want to scream, but it's like, it's a little like, I mean, I'm so used to it now that it's like, okay,

0 (5m 36s):
You know, it's a strange, it's like, like you have to master stuff. That's so much more difficult than those kids.

2 (5m 43s):
Definitely. Definitely. I have to do like a lot more just to get an simple word that everybody knows how to spell, except for me just like, okay, well have fun being able to spell supercalifragilisticexpialidocious and I'm over here. Like, how do you spell there again?

0 (6m 10s):
What are they on our program? We have people like Cassidy who have to take the long road to get to a place that other people get to more quickly. It takes some more time. It's more effort. But the thing about doing it that way, you don't take anything for granted. You see so much more than other people do from WBZ Chicago. This is American life. I'm a glass stayed with us that Guan voter reformed. So Mississippi is one of a small number of states where something like a robbery conviction can cost you your right to vote.

0 (6m 54s):
Even after you get out of prison, even after you complete your parole, pay all your fines, all that you still can't vote. Mississippi is unusual in that regard. Most states do not permanently take away a person's right to vote. And then if they do, it's usually just for crimes like rape or murder. But in Mississippi, there is one way, one long winding path that people can take. That'll let them vote again. This is a path that most states do not offer. Johnny Kaufman explains.

4 (7m 25s):
When I first learned about this, I was a little baffled to get your voting rights back. You have to get your own personal bill passed by the state legislature. These bills they're called suffrage bills are just one page with your name, your conviction and line about being a quote, honorable citizen, kind of your own personal law, giving you permission to vote. The bills have to go through committees and pass the house and Senate, all that stuff. And we'll get to that. But the thing to know in general about this is it's pretty hard to pass any bill ever about anything. So this is pretty hard. And the people that try, they tend to really care about voting like this man, Gerald layered.

4 (8m 8s):
One of the main reasons he really wants to be able to vote. Again, the thing that drives him kind of crazy.

5 (8m 13s):
They consolidated the schools,

4 (8m 16s):
Local school board. He talked for almost 10 minutes about it, how they closed the high school

5 (8m 21s):
And they move the high school to bass field. Brenda's had the better facilities

4 (8m 28s):
And the school board members, he says, okay, they have credentials, but no real experience with education.

5 (8m 35s):
I mean, come on. My degree is in psychology, but that doesn't mean that would make a great teacher.

4 (8m 41s):
Gerald lives an hour south of Jackson, Mississippi, his capital, where he helps run the family business. A funeral home. Gerald told me he's an introvert, but he also said, he's the person at church who will stand up and tell the deacon to get closer to the microphone is the guy who in the back and records the service he's pretty open about, well, pretty much everything, including how he lost his right to vote. He robbed a bank back in 2002. He told me he was grappling with drug addiction, relapsed and back cocaine from a guy. It was that guy's idea.

5 (9m 12s):
He wrote the note and he said, go give this to the teller. And she gave me the money and tell you how dumb I was. Instead of running out, I casually walked out.

4 (9m 29s):
He wasn't wearing a mask. He didn't even know what was on note.

5 (9m 33s):
I'm assuming it said, give me the money. That's what I'm assuming

4 (9m 39s):
They got caught the same day. No, at first he was charged with armed robbery, but then the prosecutor looked at the security footage and realized he didn't have a weapon.

5 (9m 47s):
And they were like, oh, okay. You guilty of a lot of things. And being dumb is the most prevalent one. That's what my lawyer told me

4 (9m 59s):
These days, Gerald watches, after his mom and his uncle who owns the funeral home, he's been out of jail for 16 years. He doesn't see any reason why he shouldn't be able to vote. Gerald started on this long, strange journey to get back his right to vote. One day in church, a friend told them about the suffrage bills. So he decided to try. He filled out a form, a nonprofit in Jackson, passed it on to a state representative who introduced his bill. Gerald hadn't actually seen it when we met, but I had a copy with me. It was wild for him to see it. House bill 1 7, 2, 1 an act to restore the right of suffrage to Gerald layered of Jefferson Davis county, Mississippi.

5 (10m 39s):
Be it inactive by the legislature of the state of Mississippi. Section one, the rider suffrage is here by fully and completely restored to Gerald Laird, Jefferson Davis county, Mississippi, who was

4 (10m 52s):
To be clear, this bill hadn't passed, but just to see what could happen there on the page,

5 (10m 57s):
The right is hereby fully and completely restored. This makes me happy. This makes me really, really happy. Wow. Just imagine fully and completely.

6 (11m 17s):
What do you think about this line at the end? The legislature is informed that he has since conducted himself

5 (11m 26s):
As a law abiding and honorable citizen and a good and lawful manner. I agree. I have, except for speeding. I have a problem with speeding, but I'm getting better. This would be just so amazing. All it has to do is pass. Can I have a copy of this?

4 (11m 56s):
You can keep that.

5 (11m 57s):
Okay. Wow.

4 (12m 7s):
This year, Gerald was one of 23 people who got bills introduced, hoping to get their right to vote back. I tried to talk to as many as I could. It was a pretty determined group, a dad and tool factory worker who had been on a union board, an older man who was sick in bed, used to be a county supervisor and a guy who worked at a mental hospital. He showed me a news clipping about how his father was shot and nearly killed trying to register people to vote. There's something like 44,000 people in Mississippi who can't vote because of a conviction. A disproportionate percentage, 60% are black in a state. That's 38% black. Gerald is black. So isn't a Shomi.

4 (12m 47s):
Lambright Haynes. She's the person who took the form, Gerald filled out and gave it to a legislator who introduced the bill. She helps a lot of people do this.

7 (12m 55s):
When I first learned about the process, I understood that people didn't take advantage of it. And I felt like, Hey, this is a way for us to really get in there. And I was excited about it until I learned it. You know, it was a joke,

4 (13m 10s):
A joke because a bill can die with no explanation. There's nothing on any government website telling you how to get your vote back. Even finding out when the bills are discussed, how do you find out when the, when the committees are happening?

7 (13m 23s):
I would just like text some of the committee members to see, you know, have you heard anything about the suffrage committee? Oh yeah. The chairman said we're probably going to meet next Wednesday, but it's never on the calendar. So then that next Wednesday would come. Are you guys going to meet today? Yeah. We're going to meet at four today. So it's just like stalking people. Basically.

4 (13m 52s):
Fortunately when Naomi stocks, people, they like her. She's fun to talk to the answer. Her texts to show me was headed the Mississippi ACLU for nearly a decade. Now she leads a nonprofit called one voice. The office is in an old Masonic building that the civil rights activist, Medgar Evers used to work out of. Naomi seems busy all the time. A friend gave her this mug. Once that says, fuck it. I'll do it. And this is one of those things. She's got lots of other stuff, but she makes time for these. Bill's been doing it for over a decade. The lifetime voting ban is enshrined in the Mississippi constitution and the history of how it ended up there is pretty well-documented and revealing.

4 (14m 37s):
It starts after the civil war, black people could finally vote and they were putting people in office, including the first black us Senator Hiram Rhodes revels. But there was backlash in 1890 white leaders like Senator James George said the state needed to hold a convention to write a new constitution. George said the new census was going to show. There were more black people than whites and Mississippi. And the goal of the convention should be to make sure whites controlled. The government. The president of the convention was a man named Solomon Calhoun, who said, quote, Negro suffrage is an evil and an evil to both races in his opening speech at the convention. He said the voting scheme should be arranged to keep white people in power.

4 (15m 20s):
They decided on a few things, there was a poll tax and this really big test called the understanding clause that said a voter had to be able to interpret part of the constitution. One newspaper called it a gigantic fraud. Then there was the part in the new constitution about crime and voting.

7 (15m 37s):
The constitution says that there are 11 crimes that take your voting rights away. And those are bigger. Me timber larceny,

8 (15m 52s):
Larceny.

7 (15m 54s):
Yeah, like stealing wood or something. Stealing trees.

4 (15m 60s):
I talked to two historians who said the list was clearly meant to target black people, crimes delegates to the convention, thought black people would be more likely to commit. And the novel idea that you could get your rights back. If you get a bill through the legislature with your name on it, that was also in the 1890 constitution. Historians don't know much about how it ended up in there. Maybe they were trying to keep the governor from gaining too much power, or maybe they wanted a way to help their white friends and family. If they happen to commit one of the crimes on the list, whatever it was, this last chance is still there for anyone who wants to try. But most people don't even know about it.

4 (16m 42s):
Gerald's journey began where all epic journeys begin. The subcommittee of the house judiciary committee. Gerald wanted to be there when they discussed his bill, which it turns out is difficult to do because you don't know when the heck they're meeting. Even the legislators don't know. Sometimes I managed to get the phone number of the lawmaker who chairs the committee, but it wasn't until the day before that he let me know when it was going to happen. Gerald, wasn't going to be able to make it. He couldn't find anyone to cover for him at the funeral home. I visited him the night before we sat in his living room.

5 (17m 15s):
It's kind of emotional for me because this is something that I would really, really, really like to see happen and left up to a bunch of people that don't know me from a can of paint. I don't know what my chances are. If I were able to be there, I would say, I would at least have a 75% chance if I could meet them and talk with them.

6 (17m 46s):
Are you nervous about how it's going to go tomorrow?

5 (17m 48s):
Yes, extremely. I had a joke, but it's not appropriate, but yet very you can tell me the joke as nervous as a $2 horror on first Sunday,

4 (18m 3s):
It seemed like Gerald's bill stood a chance of passing. Sometimes the bill fails because the person has an unpaid fine. They don't know about, or because they only recently finished their sentence. Those weren't problems for Gerald. I told him I'd let him know how it went. I went to the hearing the next day, six state representatives, although one of them white sat around a couple folding tables and a big committee room that was mostly empty off to the side. A red plastic coffee dispenser with styrofoam cups. The legislators had background checks in front of them for everyone, with the suffrage bill only like three other people were in the room.

4 (18m 46s):
I set a microphone on the table.

9 (18m 48s):
Sam, you ready? All right, we're going to start the meeting.

4 (18m 53s):
This is representative Noah Sanford. They went through suffrage bills. The first bill passed. So to the next one you pose there wasn't really any discussion.

9 (19m 2s):
1738,

4 (19m 3s):
Then Gerald's came up.

9 (19m 4s):
Alright. 1721. This is Gerald layered of Jefferson Davis county

4 (19m 11s):
Sanford read through the bill.

9 (19m 13s):
So we're 13 years past at this point, you all have any questions? Alright. Motion's title sufficient do pass all in favor. Any opposed? Okay. 1721 passes

4 (19m 34s):
House bill 1721. Gerald's bill made it out of the committee. The next day it went to the full house for a vote.

11 (19m 42s):
All right. That brings us to page 30 suffrage bills

4 (19m 46s):
For suffrage bill to pass. It takes more than a normal bill like to adjust income tax rates or give teachers a raise. You need more than a majority. Two thirds of the house would have to vote for it. And then if it passed here, two thirds of the Senate,

9 (20m 0s):
The hospital's 1721 concerns Gerald layered of Jefferson Davis county convicted of robbery in 2003 was released and finished all the conditions of a students May, 2009 that's description of the bill

11 (20m 18s):
Question. I don't see any helping the machine. Madam clerk question Curtis house, bill 1721. You favored avail vote. I, if you're opposed vote, Nate is everyone voted most machine Madam clerk. I've got 106 <inaudible> zero nays. Bill passes. Next item.

4 (20m 38s):
106 representatives voted for Gerald's bill. Nobody voted against it. It was through the house. It just had to send it to go. Hey, did you hear that your bill passed the full house?

13 (20m 57s):
Oh wow. That's wonderful. Okay. That's great. Wow, man. Now I can't wait to have some elections legends this summer so I can vote. Wow. I wish you the keys eating grin on my face right now.

4 (21m 31s):
Next step, the Senate, it started the following week, just like on the house side. Gerald's bill had to be passed by a committee before it could go to the full Senate. He had been trying on his own to reach the chair of the committee, Senator Joey, and gain. He thought it might help his case.

13 (21m 47s):
I tracked down his number today. The actual number that actually rains through his office. However, no one ever answers it. We call somewhere in the neighborhood of 50 times and then it hung up on me.

4 (22m 8s):
You let it ring for 50 times. You stayed on that long.

13 (22m 13s):
I did. Yes. I wanted to tell him my name and that I would appreciate any consideration that he would give myself so that I could get my voting rights back.

4 (22m 27s):
The Senate committee met a few days later. Again, we only learned about it the night before. And like last time Gerald couldn't go because of work. He had to watch it on YouTube from the funeral home. This committee room was slightly bigger fancier than the first one. It was the end of the session and only six of the committee's 15 members showed up all of the ones who did were white here's Senator fill-in gain

15 (22m 51s):
That's our friends from the house who were here this morning. And we have three separate bills that are before us. And the colleagues from down the hall were kind enough to come down and visit with us.

4 (23m 5s):
They were going to be considering just three suffrage bills. The first bill came up, it wasn't Gerald's the sponsor from the house, talked about it and the committee passed it. And then another representative came to the microphone. She was there to talk about two other bills.

16 (23m 20s):
Good morning committee. And thank you, Mr. Chairman for allowing me to present on behalf of Ms. Leadbetter and Ms. Grant,

4 (23m 26s):
Neither bill was Gerald's is, did not even come up. It was dead. I looked into it and this is how it goes a lot. The time the house will pass a suffrage bill, but then fill in getting blocks it. So I put in a request to talk to him, Gerald called me the day after his bill died.

13 (23m 56s):
I did not call you yesterday because I was somewhat depressed and kind of a little bit, you know, just like, oh, well, you know, I guess this wasn't meant to be right there.

6 (24m 14s):
And what do you mean by that? Just saying, oh, well,

13 (24m 18s):
I mean, that's kind of my way of protecting my feelings by just saying, you know, it's not in God's time.

4 (24m 30s):
Gerald had no idea why fill in gain, killed his bill, why these other people made it and not him filling gain got back to me and was happy to talk. I met him at his law office. He's a real estate lawyer. And when he's not at the Capitol,

15 (24m 42s):
I just finished my 23rd year in the legislature on combined house and Senate and next year will be the end of the sixth term. So, I mean, I've been doing it for a little while now.

4 (24m 53s):
I brought a copy of Gerald's bill with me. His did pass out of the house and then I don't think the Senate committee even brought it up for discussion, right?

15 (25m 4s):
I don't recall us bringing that one up. And probably because his disenfranchising crime was that a robbery, which is considered a violent offense.

4 (25m 13s):
Robbery is classified as a violent offense in Mississippi law. It doesn't mean the crime itself was necessarily violent, but fill in gain as a general rule, doesn't consider any suffrage bills for violent crimes. He says, that's what the Lieutenant governor who put them on the committee, told them to do. That's why Gerald's bill died. But ultimately it is up to Phil and gain. He can do what he wants. And he said he does sometimes weigh information. That's ways him one way or another, but there's no part of this process set aside for people to come talk to him. And the committee introduce themselves, tell their story. I told them that Gerald's crime was almost 20 years ago and that he didn't have a gun at the bank.

4 (25m 53s):
Phillinganes said, yes, those are the kinds of things that could persuade him in the committee. But he said, he looked at other things to fill in. Gain said it might hurt someone like Gerald. If the police had been called to their home, or if they'd been convicted of another crime. I wondered how and gain felt about enforcing this particular part of Mississippi's constitution, given how it disproportionately affects black people and given its history, the historians that I've talked to about this to try to, you know, learn more about it said that, you know, it was this 1890 constitutional convention that met and that, you know, the goal of that convention was to keep black people from voting and that the, you know, these criminal disenfranchisement, these laws were a part of that, that plan.

15 (26m 38s):
I don't know if that's the case or not. I wasn't there, I've not studied the history of the 1890 constitution. And certainly Mississippi has a very checkered past when it comes to race relations, we treated, African-Americans very poorly in some parts of our history. And I'm certainly not gonna sit here and defend that, or even try to, I wouldn't want to, but if you're asking me, is the suffrage right? Being treated differently based on your race in 2022, as it relates to suffrage bills that we consider in the legislature? Absolutely not.

15 (27m 19s):
I don't even know the race of the person. I'm sure I could probably try to find out by asking department of corrections to print me a social history, you know, the person's age and you know, racial background and all of that. If I wanted to, I've never done that. I don't intend to start, but I mean, it's not obvious to me just by looking at a bill, what racial background someone is a part of.

4 (27m 46s):
I asked him about this rule more broadly. If someone does their time, they're out of prison off parole years have passed. Why shouldn't they be allowed to vote? Like what's the reasoning behind that?

15 (27m 56s):
Well, I think not necessarily what I would think that we,

4 (28m 1s):
But I'm curious about what you

15 (28m 2s):
Think. I mean, I think at some point personal responsibility has to come into it and you have to realize if I'm going to break the social contract and commit a violent crime, or Mr. These are violent crimes that lead to disenfranchising your right to vote. You know, there are prices to pay for that. There hasn't been a groundswell of public support to change this particular aspect of our state constitution. Not to say that there won't be in the future, but certainly there hasn't been as of 2022.

4 (28m 34s):
Of course, the thing about public support is that the people directly affected by this provision in the 1890 constitution, they can't vote this year. Just five people got their right to vote back, which is pretty typical. This year, it's four women and one, man, I don't know much about them because they couldn't reach them, just what's on their suffrage bills do were convicted of forgery, two of embezzlement and one burglary. Most of them finished their sentences before Gerald did. Some of them hadn't been able to vote for decades. There's a lawsuit in the federal courts trying to argue that this whole process for getting the right to vote back as arbitrary and therefore unconstitutional as in the U S constitution.

4 (29m 21s):
But it's in the early stages. And any ruling could take years to show and be the woman who helps get a lot of these bills introduced, told me, she's basically stuck trying to get as many of them through the house and Senate as she can, one by one using the very process she doesn't think should exist in the first place. Gerald told me for sure, he was going to try again. He still has the copy of his bill that didn't pass

13 (29m 45s):
It's in my bedroom. I see it every day. Right now it's attached to my mirror. But at some point I am going to more than likely put it in a frame and keep it in my room.

6 (29m 58s):
Why do you put it on your mirror?

13 (30m 0s):
I want to see it so I can see the progress, the progress if pay it. And to me, that's an accomplishment. That means that I'm still halfway there.

4 (30m 24s):
A few months later, we talked again and he told me he'd been arrested for cocaine possession. He didn't have to tell me about it, but he did just volunteered it. He said he was driving a friend and they got pulled over. Jail, says his friend had the cocaine. The police report says both of them did in any case. Jail was angry at himself for having gotten into that situation. Drug possession is not a crime. That's on the list of things that will cost you your right to vote. It wasn't in the 1890 constitution. But based on what I learned from Senator Phil game Gerald's arrest might be enough reason to kill his bill. If the point of putting this in the constitution was to make it a long journey for people like Gerald it's working.

0 (31m 14s):
Johnny Kaufman is a senior producer at camps, Hyde media coming up, attracted, speeding down to California highway with 100,000 passengers inside. That's in a minute, I'm just gonna go public radio. When our program continues,

17 (31m 30s):
I'm Lulu Garcia, Navarro the host of first person, a show from New York times opinion. When we hear the word opinion, we often think of hot, takes a point of view in reaction to the news. But what about the experiences that shape people's opinions?

18 (31m 45s):
And we're like, yeah, we should unionize. And I was like, yeah, I'm pretty sure that's actually the felony.

19 (31m 50s):
That's a, the heart of the story in a lot of ways. How did I find myself pregnant?

17 (31m 55s):
First person, listen, wherever you get your podcasts,

0 (32m 2s):
This American life from Myra glass today's program. The longest distance between two points, stories of people who have to take the long and sometimes absurd way to arrive somewhere. That should be so straightforward to get to. We have arrived at act two of our show act to ill communication. And this act returned to a story of somebody who starts at home and then ends up at home where they long time-consuming journey in the middle. This whole thing happens in China. I guess you've probably heard just how different and fantastically aggressive China's response to COVID has been from the start. They shut down entire cities. I think got results. Best estimates are that had fewer than 20,000 people dead from COVID versus as you know, a million here.

0 (32m 46s):
And when OMA Cron arrived, China treated it with the same severity is the earlier variants. Even though 90% of the population is now vaccinated. I locked down all of Shanghai in April and lock that in this case means really locked down over 25 million people could not leave their apartments or homes. Grocery stores and food delivery was shut down. Lots of people couldn't get food or medicine. It was pretty awful. This lasted for two months, and we still haven't gotten much of a glimpse of what it was like to live through that. So I was excited to talk to Yankee about this thing that happened to him and his boyfriend during that period. Yang is a podcast producer in China was in Shanghai.

0 (33m 26s):
And one day early in the lockdown, he did his daily required self test as usual.

20 (33m 31s):
But that morning I saw two lies.

0 (33m 35s):
Two lines.

20 (33m 36s):
Yeah,

0 (33m 36s):
You had COVID.

20 (33m 37s):
Yeah, I think, wow, that's bad. And I tell my boyfriend, Johnny and he tests and is positive to

0 (33m 46s):
Anybody in China who test positive is required to report it to the government, which in Johnny and use-case means calling one of their neighbors, very kind retiree, who is the person in their apartment building designated to deal with government on all matters, getting new elevators installed, dealing with the box sewer, whatever. So the color. And then they figured out within a couple hours, the government's going to send somebody to take them to a quarantine center. That's part of China's zero tolerance policy. Unhealthy people are separated from the rest of the population. And then the next, very urgent order of business, they really don't have much time for this is figuring out where to send their dog while they're in quarantine, just a puppy, a five month old schnauzer.

0 (34m 28s):
They had seen this video online that was being passed around of a corgi being killed, supposedly cause its owner had COVID and had been sent to a quarantine center.

20 (34m 38s):
So there's no way for a dog to go with them. And so I just, I just cried. I just, I just, I don't know how to say it's just crash because I don't know what's next. Yeah. It's such unpredictable. And the dark scenes is a very clear since we have to solve in several hours,

0 (35m 7s):
It's actually harder than you might think because the whole city is closed up. Johnny caused lots of places before he finally finds an animal hospital. They can take their snout, sir. But then they have to find somebody who's authorized to drive a car in Shanghai with all the streets shut down. So a friend knows some professional freight drivers and they help with that. And then they have to find somebody who's allowed to walk from their apartment, building to the car, to hand the dog to the driver. It takes a government official to arrange that finally, the dog has delivered into the car. He and Johnny can start packing, bringing somebody is going to come from them any minute to take them to the quarantine center.

20 (35m 46s):
But since wasn't that simple, the truth is no one came to us at first day

0 (35m 53s):
Or the second or the third someone calls from the Shanghai CDC to follow up, but didn't send anybody other officials call more days pass. Finally, on the eighth day they do the daily self tests and they learn they do not have COVID anymore. And then that night before dinner, they get the phone call

20 (36m 15s):
The phone call. Yeah. Informing us that it's time to go

0 (36m 20s):
Over the quarantine center.

20 (36m 22s):
Yes. In two hours, we should go to the curb with our luggage, for the bus. And that bus would take us to the corny center.

0 (36m 30s):
Oh no. So do you tell them that's fine. We're cured. We don't need to come.

20 (36m 38s):
Yes. Yes. Of course. I say, okay, south taste is active today. There's no need for it. And they say, oh, you guys have to go.

0 (36m 49s):
What if you don't go?

20 (36m 52s):
Who knows? So I have no idea.

0 (36m 55s):
Really. They decide that it's smart to go because now they have this bureaucratic thing that they actually need to fix. China has these QR codes. Everybody has one on their phone read. If you have COVID green, if you don't have COVID now there's were red. Meaning they would be able to go into any building or store or office or just anywhere when locked down ended. That's the thing they thought the quarantine center could cure for them.

20 (37m 22s):
And at that point, my salt is we want a healthy social identity back, not a healthy body.

0 (37m 33s):
Exactly. Even if your bodies don't have COVID, your QR code has COVID and, and they can take care of that.

20 (37m 38s):
Yes.

0 (37m 44s):
So, so after a week you finally go to the quarantine center, what's it like

20 (37m 51s):
Actually it is a high school gymnasium, and this is sound I recorded for my own podcast. And this corny center is for people with very, you know, minor symptoms or no symptom at all. Most don't even need a doctor. So they just come here and rest and wait to get better. These are doctors telling us all where to go. You go to the first floor. You are first, your second, your assert, okay, move forward.

0 (38m 30s):
Then what happens?

20 (38m 32s):
My boyfriend and I go inside, they us a toiletries, a wash basin to his past toothbrush tower, a cup and two pack of tissues,

0 (38m 45s):
Two packs of tissues

20 (38m 46s):
And a sleeping bag. And we wait for checking.

0 (38m 50s):
It's like you guys who are joining the army or something, some people are sent to stay on the basketball court on the third floor. He and Johnny were pointed to the first four where they learned they'd be living in a swimming pool. There's no water in it. Instead, there were rows of cots, men in the deep end, women and children in the shallow end, elderly people with mobility problems were on the edges of the pool because it was just a high school pool. There's only a tiny bathroom with one toilet in it for the man and another bathroom with one toilet for the women.

20 (39m 28s):
But there are close to 200 people here now. So it's crazy. And there's no hot water in the shower.

0 (39m 37s):
He and Johnny figured they'd be there for four or five days. The rumor was you needed two negative PCR tests to get out. And they give the tests every other day.

20 (39m 46s):
It was late at night when we arrived. So we went straight to bed. So in a cornea center, the lice do not turn off all night long.

0 (39m 56s):
The lights don't turn off

20 (39m 58s):
And you know, people around you watch take talk all night long without headphones out.

25 (40m 5s):
Yeah, sure. She'd yet. She's not sure.

0 (40m 9s):
Okay. So that's you,

20 (40m 10s):
I'm saying it is now 10:40 PM on airport, the seventeens I'm lay on the card and you can hear what it's done like around me.

0 (40m 28s):
Could you sleep good Johnny sleep?

20 (40m 31s):
Well, frankly speaking, I can sleep well, but for Johnny, I think, oh, he's more sensitive during sleeping. So that's noisy environment is not work for him. It's obvious he become more and more tired each day.

0 (40m 51s):
That's how we really get to Johnny though. What kills Johnny about all this?

20 (40m 56s):
When Johnny realize that there is only one men's toilet, he just, you know, I don't, he broke down. He crashed. He just feel, you know, it's such disgusting. It is not healthy.

0 (41m 13s):
He says that to avoid using the bathroom for I'll just say number two, Johnny took steps, real steps,

20 (41m 21s):
Every meal, he just eat half. He just eat half like the breakfast they work, give us the bread, eggs and the milk. He just eat a piece of bread, no eggs, no milk, something like that.

0 (41m 39s):
And is this typical of the two of you? He would get more freaked out about things and you would be more calm.

20 (41m 45s):
Well, he's trying who he he's, you know, born and raised in Shanghai is a big setting and ever seen. It's very clean where pipelines, you know, you ever seen is

0 (41m 58s):
Fine. Yeah.

20 (42m 0s):
Yes, yes. But, but for me it's different because I came from a small town. So I had to see, you know, I had to have to see more dirty toilet than this. So for me, I see gain was fine. It would be fine because I seen worse.

0 (42m 19s):
I've seen worse.

20 (42m 20s):
Yeah. I see worse.

0 (42m 29s):
The daily routine of the corn is in tenor. Every other morning. At seven, everybody would GYN up at the edge of the pool for a PCR test. When you finish your test, you get breakfast. Young people usually go back to sleep. He says seven AMS, a little early for them. Pretty soon, their sleep is disturbed by housekeepers who come through spraying, disinfect and everywhere. It was just really, really loud. He says he and Johnny would work, do remote meetings with the colleagues. Then when it's almost time for lunch, a nurse stands at the edge of the swimming pool and gets on a megaphone. And in that noisy echoey room, people talking on their phones

20 (43m 4s):
And suddenly it gets very quiet because everyone knows the nurse are going to read the names of everyone who are allowed to go home.

0 (43m 15s):
And what's it like, what's the scene like?

20 (43m 18s):
Well, you know, that's the thing is very, very funny because the scene is a lot like a reality TV show. You know, those whose name, art read chair, and someone said, whoa, I got to go home. Something like that. And those who are not mentioned have disappointment, you know, return all of their faces.

0 (43m 38s):
After that, he says, everybody tries to figure out why did that person get out? How many negative tests do you really need to get out?

20 (43m 45s):
And there is, you know, so some gossipy is here. Oh, that guy, he already lived. But I don't know. Maybe he's only got one negative and his leaving. Oh. And that guy, you know, he got two negatives, but his QR code is still red. So that is the main topics in Carney center. Everyone was saying, oh, how many negativity you get? How many negative are you get? What was your result? What's your result?

0 (44m 9s):
And so how does this feel to you and Johnny look, you're in this absurd situation. You don't have COVID, but they're keeping you in quarantine. You can't go home. Like, were you angry? Were you frustrated?

20 (44m 22s):
I think, I think we're, we're not an angry and a frustrated because well, era I have to sit. We have no choice. We have no choice. We have to face the reality

0 (44m 39s):
And the Corning center. He says it wasn't all bad. In fact, a bunch of things were better than the life. Back home with the city of lockdown.

20 (44m 47s):
I don't have to worry about food anymore. Since the beginning of April was ever seeing our lockdown, you know, it was hard to find food anywhere. All star were closed for delivery was completely shut down and nobody stored in a food. We are hungry.

0 (45m 6s):
Really? You were hungry.

20 (45m 8s):
Yes, I'm hungry. But here three meals are served here every day. Pork beef, ax, vegetables, and all limited to drinks and milk.

0 (45m 20s):
So that seems really important.

20 (45m 23s):
Yes. And another benefit of being here, we can move around, get some exercise. We're not allowed to leave our homes in our tiny apartment is only 20 steps at most to work from one end to the other. But there is a standard swimming poor here to work around. It is 140 meters. And after each meal, you will see many people work around the edge of the pool.

0 (45m 53s):
This is another thing back at home. He says other apartment building, people would only see each other when they went downstairs for the official COVID test. When they did that, everybody was pretty quick about it. Nobody would stay in chat, scared of getting infected.

20 (46m 6s):
But here everyone is effected.

0 (46m 10s):
Well, everybody with them and they were all stuck together. People talked and hung out and you can just watch people. Would you likes?

20 (46m 20s):
Yeah. I had to see so many strangers in weeks. And what impressed me the most was a young couple. Actually this is me saying they seem to be some basing. It's like they're laying on the beach.

0 (46m 37s):
Wait. Cause why explain their setup?

20 (46m 40s):
Oh, because they, they moved their car to the side of the poor and for them. So they were like the beach chairs, you know? And each lane there by the poor, with a book in their hands,

0 (46m 53s):
Honestly like when you describe it this way, it doesn't sound so bad.

20 (46m 56s):
Yeah. I feel that here in corny center, normal life is lived.

0 (47m 3s):
Other people you observed middle-aged businessman, big guy, big voice, very pro-government who had sped off after breakfast every day about politics at length. But everyone around him like his own political talk show on the guy next to him, skinny university lecturer who you I'll try to argue with the businessman one day, which apparently did not go very well. The businessman just kind of drown them out. And then there was the guy who slept on the cot next to you. He was a source of fascination because more than anybody in the quarantine center, he seemed the most desperate to get out the most upset each day when he was not on the list to go home. He didn't know his first name.

20 (47m 42s):
I usually call him wall clean card. 26 worked as an English teacher in a kindergarten. And before I came to the corny center, he's already here for one week.

0 (47m 54s):
Wow.

20 (47m 55s):
And the day after I arrived, he had read a garden, two negative tests, that results, but they didn't get, let him leave.

27 (48m 7s):
Oh wow.

20 (48m 8s):
That's wall's voice. And he say, Hey was getting desperate.

0 (48m 12s):
One of the ways it deals with his anxiety over this. He never changes his clothes. He says that he's in the same red shirt and white socks every single day. Even though he has a big suitcase by his cot,

20 (48m 25s):
But he never opened that suitcase. And I asked him why he tells me he just want to go home. He just want to go home. When the nurse read his name and leave immediately and packaged the suitcase, maybe it will spend five or eight or 10 minutes. You don't want to waste of time. So he think, okay, maybe I don't open that suitcase.

0 (48m 54s):
Some nights long stays up all night, worried that he's going to sleep through the PCR test. And 7:00 AM

20 (49m 4s):
Here's waltz boys. And he saying, I can't sleep all night. I was waiting. My mind was sinking all the time. Go home, go home, go home. I was not even in a mood to watch tick-tock anymore.

0 (49m 18s):
Finally, one morning they read Wong's name. He says he was out of there in three minutes, flat due a sleeping bag and toiletries into the garbage, put his unopen suitcase out of there before you could get his phone number or say goodbye, Johnny, when you got out the next day I got the dog back, QR codes were fixed. They'd started, you know, in their apartment, went on a six day journey. That was completely pointless. And delivering them back at the end of the road, do the exact spot. They'd started no better, no worse. There. He says he's got an happen.

20 (49m 56s):
I have to say is, is, feel like an adventure is just like an adventure. We got food. We could talk to the strangers. And that is the only chance during those weeks we could go outside apartment. We could go on the street

0 (50m 18s):
When they were dropped off afterwards, it was at a crossroads near the place. And they walked through the empty streets to get home that no cars though. People just Katsy says, just strolling in the middle of the street. Like they own the place. When you ever see that or any of it, if you had a choice, he definitely would choose the experience. They had Dani. However, no way At three, the rogue has traveled.

0 (51m 3s):
So that has never been, perhaps you remember the critique offered by a 10 year old at the beginning of today's program, about the way we spell the name of a certain fish, S a L M O N.

2 (51m 15s):
It would be pronounced Solman, but it's salmon. Like why

0 (51m 22s):
Fair point is that story is about seven. Doing something about as logical as that spelling, taking a ridiculous route to get where they need to go. And by that, I mean a ridiculous word that is different from the normal kind of ridiculous route. They usually take Jamie Lowe, went to California to see it for herself.

28 (51m 39s):
I have an above average attachment to salmon and obsession that began in college. When I took a class with salmon guru, Peter Moyle, he's famous in salmon circles. Trust me. I think I was attracted to their epic migration and the macabre nature of their lives. They're born wiggle around than a cold stream. Make their way to the ocean. Then instinctually against all odds returned to the place of their birth, hurling their bodies over waterfalls, flesh rotting, dodging, bear claws, simultaneously decaying, as they're pushing towards their exact Knuck and their exact part stream to lay eggs and let the cycle begin again.

28 (52m 21s):
It's like they're dying to live. I mean, there's this whole industry of nature, documentaries centered on dramatizing the species and their Odyssey films, which feature the sound of raging water in the background while a serious narrator describes their majesty.

29 (52m 38s):
It's a game of persistence and luck. And although they failed time after time, their desire to push on is so strong. They never give up.

28 (52m 49s):
It's a staple of nature porn, but the world has changed. The climate has changed. There's been increasingly hot temperatures, fires, drought pollution, and many of the rivers salmon use for their migration have run dry or have been blocked by dams. That's why today in California, many salmon follow a radically different course. They make their way to the ocean, not through rivers, but inside a fleet of tinker trucks with human drivers of the wheel. When I first heard about trucking salmon, it seems so dystopia, a cold mechanical process. The idea of salmon stuck in traffic just made me feel sad.

28 (53m 33s):
Like nature had been hijacked, but I was also kind of curious. I really wanted to see this Rube Goldberg, tin cans and rubber bands, environmental hack in person. So I decided to follow five silver trucks transporting about half a million adolescent salmon on 120 mile drive to the San Francisco bay. A migration that no longer starts with the sound of babbling water. It's got a different sound Late one Tuesday afternoon. I found myself at the MOCA alumni river fish hatchery, standing in front of a gas powered machine that looked like it would be more at home on a construction site.

28 (54m 18s):
The hatchery is about an hour Northeast of Modesto in the central valley. It's rural and isolated and so hot. The sun immediately burns even in may. Mocha alumni's sits next to a river that was once known for thriving salmon and trout runs, but was damned in the sixties to offset the lost wild populations. The state built a hatchery and a parking lot close to the old stream bed. I should say, hatcheries are controversial. The fish raised in them are not as prepared to survive in nature. And when they're released, they breed with native salmon compromising the gene pool. There are people who think we shouldn't have hatcheries at all, but California has had them for decades.

28 (55m 3s):
At this point a really long time. Mocha alumna is not a massive operation, just a few bungalows and 20 concrete trenches packed with adolescent fish. When I pull up, I need the guy responsible for getting the salmon to the ocean. Bill Smith, the hatchery manager greets me and walked me over to this machine. That's now so critical to salmon migration. When we try to talk over its roar Crowder, Bill's a big bearded burly guy and the suspenders are not just for show.

28 (55m 50s):
They hold up genes, which are tucked in the waterproof boots. He's introverted seems a little gruff, but there's a tenderness. And the way he talks about the fish. In fact, he tells me when these fish were just born babies, the size of fingernails wriggling in the water, he would sometimes sleep at the hatchery overnight. He wanted to make sure their water was the right temperature that the electricity stayed on. He wanted to make sure they were okay after.

28 (56m 31s):
Yeah, it's comforting to know someone who cares is at the heart of this operation. Bill grew up in the area of fishermen. His life revolves around raising these animals for harvest, but he rarely buys salmon. Then the store says he can't afford it. He only eats what he catches. He mounted the moving platform of the Crowder and started on, on his job. The Crowder has a metal grate that that's below the water. It pushes the fish, each the size of a hot dog to one end of the Raceway. Then they're set up into a tube that's connected to the top of a truck.

28 (57m 12s):
The tube was translucent, and I could see all these salmon whooshing by like documents being transported in a nomadic to I wondered how they felt if they felt, what did they think of this sudden rush of movement, the dramatic shift in their environment. One minute shining in the sun, the next drop in a big dark tanker. There was no way to really know. After bill filled each truck with brackish, water and fish and bags of ice to maintain the temperature we pulled out of the hatchery.

28 (57m 54s):
Goodbye fishes Were on the road, me and 500,000 fish. And it's weird. Bill's driving ahead in a pickup. I followed behind the caravan. The five trucks look like any other fuel tankers you would see on the highway. They blend in seamlessly. You'd never know how many lives were speeding by a Moline. Next deal. What's amazing is that even though the fish are traveling by truck, they'll still be able to trace their way back to their birthplace. The hatchery, the Fisher imprinted with hatchery water bill told me. So if they survive long enough at sea to reach spawning age, they can use their sense of smell to return to him, swimming up rivers till they're at the stream bed, by the hatchery, It takes two and a half hours till the trucks finally pull into their destination.

28 (58m 53s):
Fort baker, nothing can happen until the dead of night because of the salmon are released when it's laid out seagulls, pelicans, and cormorants will circle, dive and swallow as many of the 500,000 fish as they can in front of us. The golden gate bridge frames, the San Francisco bay, which glimmers against the skyline. They can't get very close to the water because the pier is a historic landmark. So bill sets up a shoot, which extends about a hundred feet. It connects a truck to the edge of the pier. Then there's a 20 foot drop from the pier to the bay. Darkness finally closes them.

28 (59m 35s):
And bill signals that it's time as oblivious teenagers make out at the end of the pier, a slow trickle of water drips down into the bay. Then a steady stream flows with a few of the small fish, then a cascade, a rush all at once, crowded and alive, the salmon are falling in a flurry to the bay below crashing against the water. Then making small waves of their own. It's chaotic and beautiful, but everything about this as fucked up, it feels crude and kind of rude to the animals. I feel like we don't even deserve salmon.

28 (1h 0m 16s):
If this is the world we've made, but at the same time, and I hate that. I'm saying this, it's not so bad. I love salmon and I want them to survive. And if we're going to have salmon in California, this might be the only way bill repeats the process with each truck, four more times, a few fish flop on the pier and he picks them up tenderly and throws them in the water with the others. He's gotten them as far as he can.

0 (1h 0m 54s):
Jimmy. Well, the most recent book is called breathing, fire female, inmate firefighters on the front lines of California's wildfires

33 (1h 1m 9s):
Somewhere in my life. I realized I had to make a truce. I'll take the long well

0 (1h 1m 41s):
My program was produced today by Chris Benderev and Nadia Raymond people who helped put together today's program include the amount of wind. May Sean Cole, Michael commentator be able to Cornfeld Han shop. He walked Seth Lynn, Michelle Navarro, stone, Nelson, Katherine Raymondo, and we speak of our star. Shefsky Chris Rotella. Merissa Robertson, texter, Matt Tierney and Diane Wu, our managing editors, Sarah Abdur, Robin, our senior editors, David Kestenbaum. Our executive editor is a man Middlebury special. Thanks today to appointment. We were in Blake Feldman at the Mississippi center for justice. Arthur Bass, Carson Jeffreys, autumn Bernstein, Steve golf, Alicia Netterville Patricia trials, Jay Jackson, Omar, Travis, Sam Levine, pepper hallway, Dorothy Overstreet, prac Carrie Cleveland, Rebecca Vitale to Cola America, Billy and Rebecca camper. Our website, this American life.org. You can stream our archive of over 750 episodes for absolutely free.

0 (1h 2m 24s):
Also there's videos. There's lists of favorite shows. There's tons of other stuff there too seriously. It's good. Again. This American life.org, this American life has delivered a bit of public radio stations by PRX, the public radio exchange. Thanks as always your programs. Co-founder Mr. <inaudible>. You know, he is still bitter bitter. So bitter over Julie Andrews, leaving him long ago to star in the movie, Mary Poppins, he remembers telling her,

2 (1h 2m 50s):
Have fun, being able to spell supercalifragilisticexpialidocious.

0 (1h 2m 56s):
I'm Eric Glass back next week. More stories this American life Next week on the podcast or this American life. So Cher's mom struggled as one of the first black students that our school in Arkansas it's a shear. Never understood it until finally

34 (1h 3m 25s):
Mom said, think of it like mean girls, but they're racist. And I was like, no. I was like, oh my God. That's too mean.

0 (1h 3m 38s):
So here's the Meda and her mom next week on the podcast or your local public radio station.