Princess Cruises (0s):
This podcast is supported by princess cruises. The cruise line, where every guest is taken care of doors, unlock upon approach, food and drinks arrive anywhere. And everything seems to be just right. A princess cruise is one of the best vacation values around with personalized medallion class service multi-course meals and entertainment included. It's a chance to connect with each other and 330 destinations worldwide. Making guests feel special is what a princess cruise is all about. Get the princess treatment, visit princess.com

1 (32s):
A quick warning. There are curse words that are UN beeped in today's episode of the show. If you prefer a beeped version, you can find that at our website, this American life.org

2 (43s):
From WBZ, Chicago, it's this American life I'm BIM adding want me sitting in for IRA glass. Do you know what the square footage of your, of your home is?

3 (52s):
Oh, good. BIM, how could you ask me that you monster?

2 (58s):
I'm sorry. That's my friend Mona Mona bought a house after saving for 10 years and she has a lot of complicated feelings about that house. But the majority of her life, she thought of herself as a person who doesn't have money. That's what makes her her, no matter the actual reality it's been that way since she was a kid,

3 (1m 18s):
I went to a school and just up the street was another school. That was a private school that was called Bancroft. And we all used to call it Bancroft because I think there was just this understanding that those rich kids were not like us. And they weren't like us because I think even when you're like 11 years old, you know that the future ahead of them is just smoother. It just has less friction in it. And I think we resented them even then for that fun fact, we went to an all girls school and they called us the Virgin mega store, which is also pretty accurate. I would say

2 (1m 52s):
The Virgin mega store.

3 (1m 54s):
Yeah. Wow. So

2 (1m 56s):
Accurate children are so witty and horrible.

3 (1m 59s):
I know, I know

2 (2m 1s):
Mona knows the prize of everything in her house. She can't forget the rugs from Ikea. The lamp she bought on sale, but still thinks was too expensive. Being able to afford a down payment and now a mortgage. It just doesn't match how Mona has always seen herself or how she wants other people to see her a few months after she moved in, she hosted a casual bachelorette party at the house for her childhood friend. The bridal party were all school friends. She hadn't seen in ages. Amona was feeling a little uncomfortable.

3 (2m 34s):
Like I'm, I'm really obsessed with cleanliness normally. And I kind of deliberately didn't tidy or clean for the few days before they came, which is so weird just cuz I didn't want it to look too nice.

2 (2m 51s):
So you were trying to look kind of like shabby chic,

3 (2m 55s):
Not shabby chic, just shabby.

2 (2m 58s):
She didn't clean or dust the mirrors. Didn't up. The cushions didn't even vacuum for a couple of days beforehand. But despite that to her horror,

3 (3m 8s):
The first friend who arrived, like did this funny little sort of dance in my kitchen where she was like, oh my God, it's just so big. They asked if they could have a tour of the house. And I kind of was just like, yeah. And then didn't do anything about it. But then the third time they asked, they know all of my evasion tactics at this point they were just like, Mona, give us the fucking tour. So then I did and I don't know, they were just like, it's nice. And I was like, thanks. And it shouldn't be, it shouldn't be a big deal, but it is because I think it's, I just don't think I deserve it.

3 (3m 49s):
I guess

4 (3m 51s):
These

2 (3m 51s):
Friends all knew how she'd grown up. Her parents had bought their house off an older lady and never updated it. So the carpets were old. The wallpaper was peeling in places and there was a bit too much furniture when friends would come over. Mona felt super aware of it and embarrassed a weirdly identical emotion to what she was feeling in this new house. Now the whole tour, she could feel them looking, which is the point of her house tour. And when they got upstairs in her bedroom, the closet door was a jar.

3 (4m 22s):
Oh God, it's just so embarrassing to say these things out loud in my closet was a Gucci bag containing a Gucci handbag. Now I did not purchase said Gucci handbag. It was given to me, which is also incredibly bizarre.

2 (4m 37s):
It was a work gift.

3 (4m 39s):
And I just kind of saw an eye track on that. And that felt weird to me. And then also in any human interaction, there's always this choice, right? Do you acknowledge the thing or do you not acknowledge the thing and just keep the conversation going? And I just know myself that if I would've acknowledged it, I would've made things even weirder by like, overexplaining how I came to have this free Gucci handbag and why I haven't opened it since I got it.

2 (5m 3s):
Why haven't you opened it?

3 (5m 6s):
Because again, it doesn't, it doesn't feel like it belongs to me, even though I own it, who I am is not somebody who owns a Gucci handbag and therefore it stays in the cupboard

2 (5m 18s):
To her. The designer bag is not actually a bag. It's a material asset, something she could sell if ever things got rough because Mona is a person who knows that the ground can give way under your feet at any time I have to point something out though, like, oh no, no, I'm just, I'm just kind of thinking like, it's a weird thing to be like, oh, I dunno what to do. I have money. Like, it's kind of like my diamond shoes. They're so tight.

3 (5m 51s):
Oh wait. No, it's absolutely disgusting. Like I'm not expecting anyone. That's listening to have any sympathy for this to be really, really clear. This isn't framed as poor me. I feel so uncomfortable talking about this. Cuz again, especially growing up, anytime that someone with more resources than me complained, yeah. I was just like, shut the fuck up. Like I don't really want to hear it. I'm not complaining. I'm really just trying to describe a feeling I think. And actually it still feels weird. The strangest feeling is the feeling of coming back. It's the feeling of putting a key through the door and opening the door and it's, it's kind of like, what's that thing. ARA phobia where you're like scared of open spaces.

3 (6m 32s):
It's like really fucking weird to have that when you walk into your home to have a fear of like the open space, but if I'm like walking upstairs to go to bed or something. No, it's really weird. I feel like a lodger here. It's transitory.

2 (6m 46s):
So when you're in your house and you're going up to bed, does it feel like an out of body sort of like, oh it's me, but it's not really me.

3 (6m 54s):
Exactly. Like I can it's I can see a woman going up the stairs and every now and then I remind myself that that person is me

2 (7m 12s):
For Mona. There was another big change and it came a few months after she'd bought the house that had made her feel. So unlike herself, she was on a long awaited vacation with friends

3 (7m 22s):
On the second to last night, got a phone call from my sister telling me that my mom, I got a phone call from my sister telling me that my mom had had a stroke. So I came back immediately and then she had another stroke and yeah, she just, she needs 24 hour care. And so she moved in with me and I tried to do that as best I could

2 (8m 1s):
Mona swung into action. She worked out the likely cost of care and for how long they could afford it, that money that she'd been so careful to save was actually being useful. At one point, she thought she might have to sell the house. And the weird thing was it felt horribly familiar to be in a position where things felt more precarious again.

3 (8m 23s):
When I moved into the house and everything was okay for those six months, I didn't feel like me. And now I do feel like myself because the, the fear is back. Like it is just it's it's me just living in a nice house for now. This house isn't mine really in, on some level, in my mind, the house isn't mine. And so that makes me feel like me by dissociating slightly. When I did get safe, I felt less like myself. I felt really disconnected with myself. I think actually being afraid is part of my identity.

2 (9m 3s):
That's what our show today is all about. And something you understand to be such a fundamental part of yourself, changes dramatically or goes away. And you're left. Wondering, is this still me? Am I still who? I think I am that feeling of me minus me. We hear three people facing down monumental changes. Wondering exactly that. Stay with us. Act one voiceover. Sometimes you can plot the life of a singer from their discography.

2 (9m 43s):
Think of the shift Beyonce made from girl group power, pop to soul bearing global superstar. So I want to play you some recordings of Sandy Allen, who this first story is about singing from four different points in his life. They map out the story of a person losing a big part of themself and building something to replace it. Here's the first recording. I'll call it the first voice.

5 (10m 10s):
Okay. Here's the first part of a very complicated new vocalese.

6 (10m 16s):
Aww

5 (10m 26s):
Good.

2 (10m 27s):
That was Sandy around the age of 14 singing scales in a voice lesson. Sandy was born with a voice by the age of four or five. He'd be hoisted onto the nearest table at family weddings to belt out somewhere over the rainbow. Those impromptu wedding gigs became roles in musicals at school and performing in choirs and choruses, both at home and internationally by the age of 15, Sandy had sung in choir that performed at a San Francisco giants game and also at the Sydney opera house, he was good and he knew it.

7 (11m 1s):
I was like the person in the girls, chorus who would sing the mega mega high note. You know, whether it was in oh holy night or the end of the national Anthem while you're at the MLB game or whatever. Like I was that voice

2 (11m 16s):
Sandy's voice with its three Oxy range was special enough to seriously consider Juilliard. Sandy could sound like a Disney princess. And in this parody of a song from the little mermaid, he really does

8 (11m 29s):
Look at my faces. Check out my wouldn't you say clams bras are the best looking around me. You'd think sure. I could tap that Baha as you know, I'm a, and so I'm a fish down below

2 (11m 49s):
Sandy. Didn't go the Juilliard path. He became a writer instead. That's how I first got to know him working in the same newsroom, but he still loved singing karaoke or just sitting at his piano with no audience. Just the act of it. Sandy's voice high, vast in range. And also kind of effortless was programmed in a core part of the swirl of DNA that made Sandy Sandy. Another thing about Sandy in his own words, he'd known he was different since he was a little kid, but he kept it to himself all through college and into his twenties, which was when he made his first trans friend.

2 (12m 31s):
It was at that friend's house that Sandy first saw testosterone syringes. It would take another few years before Sandy came out as non-binary and trans, which felt great to name out loud. Whenever he thought about actually starting testosterone himself, it came with a clutch of worries, a severe anxiety around needles. He was nervous about his relationships with the people in his life, but when it came to articulating all those concerns,

7 (12m 58s):
The reason I would give myself was I can't give up my singing voice. Maybe I thought the universe would punish me. You know, I maybe I thought that, Hey, if I do this monstrous quote unquote thing and start testosterone and ruin this beautiful voice that I spent so much of my childhood building than the punishment I'll receive is that I won't ever feel the pleasure of singing. Again.

2 (13m 24s):
This fear of losing his voice. It's one that many trans people have experienced and spoken about. Sandy's fear was that there would be a total absence of a singing voice. He didn't know any famous trans men singers. And he'd heard one trans guy talking on a podcast about how he couldn't sing anymore. Four years went by, okay, here's the second set of recordings. I'm calling this one, the countdown sessions

9 (13m 55s):
Somewhere, the rainbow.

2 (14m 2s):
This is from late 2020, about 21 months ago. At this point, Sandy had made the choice to start tea, but before he started, he felt compelled to sing some of his favorite songs and record himself doing it.

7 (14m 17s):
What I ended up doing when I look back at it now was I was recording really nostalgic stuff for myself, stuff that I had sung in plays songs that I had sung in my car as a teenager. One of the songs that I recorded on my old voice was somewhere over the rainbow. It was almost like I reversed all the way to the beginning. I think it was like, it was a, it, it, it almost felt like a Memorial, you know, like, Hey, let's give this one last spin. You know,

2 (14m 45s):
You said this thing when we spoke earlier that it felt like a countdown to never singing again. Yeah.

7 (14m 53s):
Yeah. I was sad. I was, I, I felt guilty. It was like, well, you know, if I'm gonna kill this sweet thing, that's been my friend for all this time. I will at least enjoy our, our last days together.

9 (15m 9s):
What? Wow. Troubles smell like 11 drops way above the chimney tops. That's where

7 (15m 19s):
I was mourning an entire selfhood. That was the one that I had created. You know, I, I never felt like a woman, but I had to act like a woman for a very long time. And I was saying goodbye to all of that.

2 (15m 33s):
Did it really feel like you would never sing again? Like never, ever?

7 (15m 38s):
Well, I think that if I'm being honest, my sense was my other, my, my new voice, whatever it was gonna be was gonna be so bad that I just wouldn't want to,

9 (15m 49s):
I can seem to focus. And you, moon town seemed to know Sam, I'm just,

2 (16m 5s):
This is one of his newer favorites. Billy Eish is my future.

9 (16m 9s):
As

2 (16m 10s):
Good as he sounds.

7 (16m 11s):
I mostly hear how thin and kind of tentative that voice is and how much it doesn't fit me.

9 (16m 21s):
Can you hear me? I'm not coming home.

2 (16m 29s):
You told me that the last song that you ever recorded using your voice Pret was changes, which is, you know, very on the nose, very on the nose as songs go. I bet you, you know, just this idea of you flipping through the catalog and aha changes because of the changes I'm going through. See, but I love that so much. I love that. That was where your, your, your brain and your voice landed. Can you play a little bit of that recording?

7 (16m 59s):
Yeah.

9 (17m 0s):
I'm too fast to take that test. Turn the face strange.

2 (17m 9s):
What do you think when you hear that version of yourself singing it?

7 (17m 14s):
I hear me singing a male artist with a kind of yearning, you know, I, yeah, it sounds like the most excited of any of the takes, right? Like, I, I hear more energy in my voice there.

2 (17m 28s):
It's like, he knows in his gut that this is what he would like to sound like, what he could sound like. And he's itching to get to a time when it's already happened.

7 (17m 38s):
I was like, yeah, deep down, super excited for what was on the other side.

9 (17m 43s):
So I turned myself to face me, but I never caught

2 (17m 56s):
Let play the third set of recordings. I'm calling it rough going,

10 (18m 10s):
Ah, ah, what the fuck are we in?

2 (18m 14s):
Sandy's voice in a new phase and not always successful at making the exact sounds. He wanted it to be making,

10 (18m 23s):
I have a dream that ha mute somebody. Ah, you, I never dream that somebody like you known ha

2 (18m 42s):
It took some time for the tea to have a notable effect on Sandy's voice. Those recordings are from about two months after he'd started.

7 (18m 50s):
I couldn't sing sounds that even sounded okay at all. I was like a screechy teen sound. I had full on moments where like, you know, that quintessential voice break where you go to sing a note and there's nothing there. Like it's reminding me of, you know, it's different. But after top surgery, for example, I was so weak in my upper body that I couldn't lift a glass. I couldn't open a door. And over that period of months of, of learning how to use my upper body again, I mean, it was like these small victories, like when I could hold a mug and it, and it didn't feel so heavy that like I was gonna drop it

2 (19m 34s):
In those croaky newly post T days, Sandy found himself attempting to sing the songs of artists that he wouldn't have approached before he tried Leonard Cohen. He tried Johnny Cash. None of it was sounding quite right. Testosterone does a lot of things. It changes the way weight is distributed on your body, as well as the thickness of your skin and hair. And even how fast your hair grows. It also thickens the vocal chords, making some voices break and deepen, and Sandy's voice was breaking, waiting for this fourth decade. Second puberty to kick in was kind of surreal. Sandy had had top surgery was growing facial hair, and now he was waiting for his voice to drop.

2 (20m 17s):
And then one day

7 (20m 20s):
I sat down at the piano, I hit a middle C and I could not sing it.

2 (20m 27s):
Wow.

7 (20m 27s):
You know what I mean? It was gone. Middle C was gone for context, middle C used to be where I would've started my scales. You know, it would've been kind of just like, it's the easiest thing to sing is a middle C on my previous voice.

2 (20m 40s):
So it wasn't like a sort of like, it wasn't like a weaning off it. Wasn't kind of like, oh, it's tapering. And now it was just like, oh, I, I, I can't do that.

7 (20m 49s):
It, yeah. My voice was like gone. The voice that I had was like, honestly, a few notes, big. It was absurd. I sat there at the piano going like, oh no, like there's almost nothing here. What song can I even make outta such a small ability? It was a very like horrible thing to all of a sudden have my voice go from being like the most familiar part of my body on some level to this completely unknown. Like, I didn't even know what it could do, let alone how to make it, do it.

7 (21m 31s):
I remember the song where I sang it and it was like, oh my God, this sounds like a song.

2 (21m 36s):
What was the song

7 (21m 38s):
I REM it was your song by Elton John, which is not a song that I like. And I remember having this moment of like, oh my God, it's a song. Like I could feel it. It was like the first time that I was able to kind of step back and cross my arms and just watch. It was like, I was going, whoa, you know, like, look at this thing, go. Now I have a much better sense of where the voice starts and where it can get to. I have a much better sense of how to actually use it. And I feel it when I'm doing it. It's a bigger instrument.

2 (22m 14s):
Bigger how,

7 (22m 16s):
Hmm. I think when I say that in my mind, I'm picturing like a violin and a cello. There's so many examples of instruments where there's a smaller version. That's higher, there's a Piccolo. And then there's a flute and it's like, I'm just rocking a new, you know, it's a bigger, and it's lower in order to make a lower sound. You have to move more air through that thing. I need more in order to power it

2 (22m 47s):
We're on the last set of recordings. Now let's call these Sandy's third voice

10 (22m 52s):
I can. And you

2 (23m 11s):
Sandy singing Billy Eilish again on his piano at home, we were on the phone and I asked him to play me a couple of songs while we were talking in this third voice, the post post testosterone voice. It was the first time he'd sung in front of anyone beside his husband and a couple of friends, the squeaks and croaks have Abed, but Sandy's voice is still in flux. The voice rehab is ongoing

10 (23m 36s):
And you hear me, I'm not coming home.

2 (23m 43s):
It's easy to hear the difference. Even only a few months apart, the voice is obviously deeper. But more than that, it sounds strong. Like he's been practicing. That sounds more lived in than what you sent me back in March.

11 (24m 8s):
Ah, good. Yeah, probably

2 (24m 13s):
Of course. I had to ask Sandy to sing changes too

10 (24m 18s):
Face soon. Now you're get time. May change me, but time I said that time.

4 (24m 50s):
Woo.

2 (24m 53s):
How did that feel?

10 (24m 55s):
Oh,

7 (24m 57s):
It's a little scary.

2 (24m 59s):
How does your voice feel? Singing it today?

7 (25m 3s):
Okay. Yeah. Every day that I wake up and I can just sing is like another beautiful, glorious gift. It's like, wow, here we go. I can still do it. And you know, some days are better and some days are worse, but it's like, I'm no longer in this period of Merck and everything feeling off and searching. I'm on the other side and I'm just living my life,

2 (25m 27s):
His effortless three Octa first voice and his second unmaintained voice and the raw post T voice. They're all the bones of this new voice that he had to build up himself.

7 (25m 39s):
It's just, it's a different sound. It's what I enjoy about it. In some senses. It's a trans voice. I don't know if I sound like a CIS guy. I think that I sound like something else. And I'm a product of a very specific right set of, of things that can happen to a body. And I, I love that too. I love that it winds up being a sound that isn't like others, it feels more grown up and a little more fragile perhaps because it's new. But also like I'm, I'm always pushing it. I'm always trying stuff that I haven't done before.

2 (26m 16s):
Something he'd never even thought to imagine before now was harmonizing with himself.

7 (26m 23s):
I had a, a moment the other day when we were playing some of my old voice over the stereo, and then I, in my voice now sang along with it and did a self duet. And there was just this moment of like, whoa,

10 (26m 41s):
I'm not coming

9 (26m 43s):
In home. Do you

7 (26m 47s):
Understand? And I think part of that is just the sheer uncanniness of, of course it's the same voice. It's like, it, it is me. And you could hear how, in a sense, faithful, a replica. This is with a big difference. It felt kind of like I was like breaking time. The, the, the kind of fossil of my old voice in the room, and then my new one, joining it, you know, dueting with my former voice. Suddenly my former voice becomes so much more interesting to me this way, where it's not just this thing that I walked away from honey,

9 (27m 27s):
He helped just wanna get to myself.

2 (27m 36s):
Sandy had expected a split in himself with the arrival of a new voice, but what was once so unfamiliar is somehow now the truest expression of himself. He could even say he turned to face the strange,

9 (27m 51s):
I know, supposedly how lonely now lonely now supposed to be unhappy. We're here that someone, without someone

2 (28m 12s):
Coming up a mysterious man in a hospital parking lot offers to grant one wish that's in a minute from Chicago public radio. When our program continues

Northern Trust (28m 24s):
Support for this American life comes from the Northern trust. Financial planning is especially complex. When your business is the primary source of your wealth gain a competitive edge with advice that recognizes the unique challenges you face, whether you are growing your business or getting ready to sell Northern trust can help your business and family flourish for generations to come speak with an advisor, to explore strategies that have proven most effective for generations of business owners

BetterHelp (28m 51s):
Support for this American life comes from better help therapy online. When life gets challenging, it can be difficult to stay in a positive problem solving mode without getting stuck on the negative. A therapist can help you work towards becoming a better problem solver, making it easier to accomplish your goals, big or small, whatever they are. If you're thinking of giving therapy, a try better help is convenient, accessible, affordable, and entirely online. When you wanna become a better problem solver visit better help.com/t a L for 10% off your first month of therapy online, that's better. H E L p.com/tal.

13 (29m 28s):
Hey, this American life listeners, I'm Anna Martin, the host of the modern love podcast. In every episode, we peek into an intimate corner of someone's life and learn about what love means to

14 (29m 40s):
Them. You know, I can tell you 35 years with another person, I've never spent that much time with anyone else either.

13 (29m 47s):
So we both kind of said, I love you pretty fast. My advice is that it's okay. If it's hard, you can listen to modern love wherever you get your podcasts.

2 (29m 59s):
It's this American life I'm BI in for IGL. Today's show me minus me. Stories of people who change a fundamental part of themselves and wonder if they're still who they thought they were. We've arrived at act two. Me minus you. I reached out to one of my favorite writers, Marie Phillips, and told her about today's theme. Two days later, she'd written this short story and sent it to me. Here's Marie,

15 (30m 28s):
Stephanie sat with her parents by her sister's bed. Her mother was reading aloud from the road, less traveled while her father muttered to himself. As he did the crossword fluorescent lights, buzzed machines, hummed and beeped, and the sneakers of hurrying nurses, squeaked on rubber floors. Stephanie tried to ignore it all as she flicked through client emails on her phone, but it was impossible. Even if she could screen out the noise, there was the cloying smell of Chuy oil. Rachel's favorite from the diffuser by the bed. Stephanie hadn't thought that there could be a worse smell than the hospital's mix of disinfectant disease and cheap canned soup, but Chuti oil.

15 (31m 11s):
Was it. Rachel had been in a coma for six months, some bugs she'd picked up on one of her endless overseas trips to find herself. Nobody could figure out why she hadn't woken up yet, but the doctors encourage them to keep visiting. Keep talking to her, hoping that something would prompt her to open her eyes. Typical. Rachel thought Stephanie attention seeking even while unconscious Stephanie's mother finished her chapter and pressed play on an ancient portable tape deck. The sound of flutes and whale song filled the air.

15 (31m 53s):
I'm going to stretch. My legs said Stephanie, there was a coffee cart by the front door of the building. Stephanie ordered a double espresso and briefly considered then rejected a sweaty pastry. The coffee tasted like tarmac. She took it outside into the car park and lit a cigarette. A man shuffled over. He was short and dressed in a long trench coat with a collar, turned up and a battered black hat pulled down over his brow, like a PI in an old detective series, except that his skin was green, not nauseous green, but actual green traffic, light green.

15 (32m 33s):
Hello, Rachel. He said, Stephanie started then shook her head. My name's not Rachel. She said she moved her handbag closer to her body. My apologies said the green man, you are Stephanie and your sister in the coma is Rachel. Allow me to introduce myself. I am the genie of the lamb. He bowed. Stephanie rolled her eyes. Friend of Rachel's. Obviously only Rachel would have friends who paint themselves green and call themselves genies. She turned to go, but the green man grabbed her by the wrist. I have something to show you.

15 (33m 14s):
He said he put his other hand on her forehead. She felt herself become dizzy. Then her mind filled with images, playing out like a film. She saw Rachel unpacking her backpack in her filthy flat, dirty clothes and half red self-help books and ashtrays overflowing with Rachel's foul menthol cigarettes. She saw the antique lamp at the bottom of the bag wrapped in an old t-shirt. She saw Rachel rubbing a tarnish on it. And the green man appearing him, offering her three wishes as is traditional money, sex power thought, Stephanie, what else is there? But she saw Rachel looking at the mess around her.

15 (33m 56s):
I need to get my shit together. Rachel told the genie, I need to be more like Stephanie. She's got it. All husband career, big house. First wish I want to be like Stephanie. Your wish is my command said the genie. There was a flash and Rachel collapsed to the ground. In that instance, Stephanie or someone who looked like Stephanie appeared in Rachel's apartment. She was wearing a tailored cashmere suit and had her hair neatly curled in a bun. The Stephanie in Rachel's apartment, walked over to a mirror and stood at it. Mouth wide.

15 (34m 37s):
Stephanie watched Stephanie watching Stephanie in the mirror Mirror. Stephanie ran her hands over her body. She started to laugh. She turned to the genie. This is not what I meant. She said, I just wanted to know how she gets what she's got. But no, it's good. It's really good. But it's not enough. It's her body, but I'm still Rachel. Okay. Second. Wish I want to actually be Stephanie. I want to forget. I was ever me.

15 (35m 18s):
Let me be her completely for six months and then come back and get me. Then I can use my third wish to go back into my own body. But I'll remember what it was like being her. Your wish is my command said the genie again, there was another flash. Then everything went dark. Stephanie felt the genie remove his hand from her forehead. She opened her eyes and found herself back in the hospital car park, her cigarette burned down to the filter. I'm Rachel. She said I'm Rachel Crystal's magic mushrooms, energetic healing. Women who run with the wolves, ecstatic dancing.

15 (36m 0s):
Cattan Rachel. She hasn't even got a fucking pension, the genie nodded, but I don't understand. I feel like me. How can I be Rachel? When I'm still me think of Stephanie, like a car said the genie, the machinery still operates in the same way, but it's Rachel behind the wheel. Even if she's not aware of it. Let me give you an example. What are you smoking? Stephanie. Stephanie looked down at the cigarette in her hand. Ah, she said mantle. I would never, she tossed the revolting thing away.

15 (36m 44s):
It's a lot to take in, said the genie.

4 (36m 53s):
She

15 (36m 54s):
Took a steadying breath, wiping her hand on her skirt. So if I'm Rachel, where's Stephanie asleep in there. She said pointing at the hospital where Rachel's body lay. Yes. Said the genie. And when you vacate this body, Stephanie will come back. She won't remember the last six months or any of this, but other than that, she'll carry on as normal. And I'll be Rachel again, fully Rachel, but I'll remember it all. That's right. She'd be Rachel in her crappy basement, flat with her crappy job, giving teenage girls piercings in Claire's accessories and her crappy parade of crappy boyfriends who smelled like unwashed hair.

15 (37m 45s):
While Stephanie went back to her mansion and her law firm and her hot house husband who cooks like a Michelin Stard chef, my mansion, my law firm, my hot house husband. It isn't fair. And I would be Rachel. She thought I'm Rachel. I've still got one. Wish she said to the genie, I didn't actually make my third wish back in the flat, the green man nodded, then finish her off. She said, Rachel's body kill it and leave me alone.

15 (38m 26s):
She let another menthol cigarette and walked away. Sometimes one wishes all you need.

2 (38m 42s):
Marie Phillips, who is a younger sister, by the way, as am I Marie's latest book is create your own midlife crisis. The best way to make the worst decisions act three, one pill made me small this past year writer, Carla Cornejo via Visio made a change that had the potential to alter who she has known herself to be. For many years. She really didn't know who would emerge a heads up. This story briefly mentioned suicide. Here's Carla.

17 (39m 21s):
In my early twenties, I would sometimes flirt with boys. I didn't even like at parties. I didn't wanna be at, by saying things like I'm on the maximum dose of my antipsychotic, because I like that. It made me sound dangerous. And it felt like a general disclaimer, that nothing I said should be taken seriously. Now, if I say I went off my antipsychotic with no suggestive inflection, with no inflection at all at 33 years old, married to a woman, increasingly allergic to alcohol. This also makes me sound dangerous, but not in a socially sanctioned hot way. It can't escape. The stigma it's there. If you're on these pills, it's there.

17 (40m 1s):
If you go off the pills, this is a story of coming off the pills. One night last fall, I told my partner Talia that something was off. I couldn't feel sadness or joy. I couldn't distinguish indignation and frustration from excitement. I thought it had to do with my current antipsychotic Latuda. I have never experienced psychosis, but Latuda is prescribed for other things too. I'd been taking it for thoughts that go round and round and a general state of suicidal feeling. I struggled with sometimes explosive emotions that I had a hard time regulating. And in the year, since the original prescription, thanks to lots and lots of therapy, I'd grown stronger and more stable.

17 (40m 44s):
The Latuda had saved my life, but in the way that sedating dart saves your life, it made me so lethargic that it was impossible to act out on all my feelings or even to feel them. I asked my psychiatrist what he thought about maybe going off the Latuda. He said he was proud of the work I'd done over the past couple of years. It felt like a bespoke commencement speech. I cried. And then we made a planted taper my dose down to zero. Just to be clear. I'm not anti-me. I love meds. I believe my antidepressants, plural, which I still take are helping me thrive. But the Latuda was different.

17 (41m 24s):
It's a heavy medication targeting challenges I had addressed in therapy. Maybe I was ready to try life without it I'd been on one antipsychotic or another since my early twenties, I didn't know what I was like without this medication. It was an odd feeling to realize that I did not know who I was at baseline as an adult. I could be anyone. And that was maybe the scariest thing about going off the Latuda. What if I was unrecognizable to Talia or my dog or my editors? What if I became unrecognizable to myself?

17 (42m 7s):
I started tapering off Latuda in November. And in January I taped a conversation with Talia about how it was going.

18 (42m 14s):
You and I have been together like six years and this entire time I've been on Anj psychotic most of the time, most of the time. And so when I was thinking about going down on the Latuda or off of the Latuda, I was like, certainly the person married to me right now likes the person that I am on the Latuda. And I wondered if, how you were gonna react to somebody you didn't, you didn't know, or maybe you didn't like off the Latuda.

19 (42m 54s):
Are you asking if I was worried about that too?

18 (42m 59s):
No. What, like what, how do you respond to what I said? Like I'm prompting you to talk.

19 (43m 11s):
Yeah.

18 (43m 13s):
See, I didn't, I don't ask you a yes or no question. I

19 (43m 16s):
Am formulating a thought as though on an academic panel,

17 (43m 22s):
Talia teaches college students and does her best to get me to write with outlines, thesis, statements, and evidence to support my findings Talia. And I got together in grad school at Yale. And she often fact checks my memories because those years are a blur. I was popping at Avan from many OID, tens and literature seminars and new sedating medications had me falling asleep in cafes, wandering lost in downtown new Haven.

4 (43m 48s):
Over

17 (43m 49s):
Time with the rotating door of psychiatrists, diagnoses and medications, including Latuda. I got better in the ways we measure getting better for mental illness. I made plans with friends. I was productive. I wore a lipstick, but a deep sadness nod away at me all the time. That scared me. It made me feel damaged and broken and radioactive in ways. I couldn't even understand.

18 (44m 21s):
Okay. So it's been how many months since I stopped taking the Latuda? January, February, March, April, may five months. Ooh,

19 (44m 32s):
No way. That's almost half a year. How do you remember that?

18 (44m 35s):
It was January. I kept a diary, but yeah, those were, those were some long evenings that I just spent in the bedroom. Just kind of just lying down. What

19 (44m 47s):
Do you remember about it? Like when you think about that time, do you remember a certain feeling?

18 (44m 54s):
I remember maybe the first three months I wanted to, to go back to go back. Yeah.

19 (45m 2s):
Yeah. Are you glad I discouraged it?

18 (45m 6s):
Well, maybe you should say why you discouraged

19 (45m 8s):
It. Yeah. Any, you know, frequently you would have bad days and you would announce to me that you had decided that you needed Latuda and I would say to you, okay, that's fine. And before you make such a big decision, why don't you make sure that you're not reacting to withdrawal? Yeah. Just find out. Yeah. Because once you go back on, you're gonna lose the opportunity to have that data. So I was like, if you could just wait and it wasn't because I didn't want you to be on Latuda. It was honestly, because I wanted you to know and like, think about what you know now.

19 (45m 53s):
Yeah. And you wouldn't have ever gotten the chance to know that. No. What do you remember about wanting to go back on it and thinking you couldn't do it? What do you remember?

18 (46m 5s):
I remember thinking that it was a lot of work, you know? Yeah. I remember just having a sense. What I always wanted to know was the baseline. Right. Who, what I, who I was, who I was at the baseline and off Latuda, I didn't really know. Right. What I was experiencing at that time was who I really was. Yeah. But what I did know is that I was experiencing like bodily things, like the night sweats and the clamminess and you know, these other things that made me feel

19 (46m 40s):
Like nausea,

18 (46m 41s):
Headaches, constant nausea, headaches. That made me feel like, you know, like an old computer, that's just running all the time. That's just feels really, really

19 (46m 51s):
Hot. I feel like the thing that's. So like what happened when you went off the Latuda, right? There was this kind of eruption of emotion and agitation and frustration. And you got really scared. I think that like, maybe your baseline was too much and like, you didn't want your baseline. You didn't like, right. And then you kept hanging in there. You kept hanging in there.

17 (47m 16s):
I did keep hanging in there for many months. I didn't know what was me and what was the withdrawal experiencing, but slowly the bodily agitation, migraines and shivers lifted. And I was left with me. No,

19 (47m 27s):
The difference between you on and off the Latuda is huge. It's absolutely huge, but it's not like a, your fear of like a different personality coming out. It's not like that at all. No, I don't seem to have a different personality.

17 (47m 56s):
It's true. I'm not a different person off the Latuda, but everything is harder. Now moving through my day is like trying to beat egg whites into a Mer, without a mixer, just a butter knife, all effort and I'm bone tired. At the end of each day, I feel much more sensitive than I have ever felt. Tender sore and scared, like a prey animal, a baby deer, or a Yorky with a Bobcat, for a neighbor. It takes almost nothing to make me fall apart. Not being able to open a jar, dropping a mug of coffee, taking the weather. Personally, I fall apart multiple times a day, But it also takes almost no time to gather myself.

17 (48m 38s):
Now, if I feel overwhelmed, I excuse myself to another room set a 15 minute timer, blast the AC and cry. I watch video about chipmunk facts narrated by a young man who seems as delighted by chipmunks as I am. And then I'm fine. I'm back downstairs, making coffee, scheduling doctor's appointments and zoom meetings. Sometimes even before the alarm goes off Latuda, which was supposed to protect me from emotional intensity, which was supposed to prevent me from breaking down, just kept me stuck in bed. Sad about being sad. I've also noticed that I can concentrate better now for longer stretches of time.

17 (49m 19s):
For a while in Latuda, I could not read not at all. I could only reread and that felt lonely. I'm reading again. One morning I took my dog and demons on a walk in the nearby woods. I was midway through the first chapter of Edith Wharton's house of Murth on audiobook. I was kind of starstruck star eyed about the rhythm of her sentences, the wickedness and speed of her wit and the sensuous appreciation of melodrama. I felt a bit like a teeny bopper. I felt about Wharton. The way I felt about John Mayer in seventh grade and room for squares came out and on it.

17 (50m 1s):
The song your body is a Wonderland. I'm confronting strangers again, that's back. Maybe it's because I grew up in New York under Giuliani or because my dad had an explosive temper. And once my brother was born, I learned that if I was scared someone with more power, it was going to be a fucking asshole to someone with less power. I could put my body in between them and dare the bully to blink. First. The thing about me is I never blink. First, a couple of months ago, I ran a guy out of a liquor store downtown because he did a little bow and said, Nama, stay to an Indian kid who was working behind the counter.

17 (50m 47s):
He also kept interrogating him about the village, where he was born. And the kid clearly did not wanna talk about it. He looked pained and annoyed. When I was being rung up, I aggressively scrolled through Instagram, trying to distract myself. The cashier said something to me. I did not hear it and asked him to repeat himself. Then I heard myself say, I'm sorry, can you say that again? I was distracted by how much that guy knows about India, the guy and his wife heard me say that too. And announced this store did not have the wine they were looking for after all. That's when the guy did a little bow and said, Nama, stay to the cashier, Sir, that's fucking rude. I told him they left the store.

17 (51m 30s):
I wouldn't have done that on the Latuda. Maybe I wouldn't do it again, but it certainly sounds like me. I remember the exact moment a few months ago in the middle of the night on the toilet. When I realized I felt happy, nothing had happened, I would still have asleep, but the rush was unmistakable. I grabbed my phone and made note of the time 2:00 AM and wrote a short description of what that felt like in case I wouldn't remember it in case I needed photographic proof of the Lockness monster in the morning. Earlier this summer, I sat in the kitty pool.

17 (52m 10s):
We picked up from Walmart, with my book and my music and my dog. I'd been doing this every day for weeks. And it made me feel safe, lit from within, with love for the whole world. I again wrote down the time and place at 12:07 PM from the hammock, my thighs and stomach covered by old wet hand towels. We kept in the freezer to help regulate my body temperature. I emailed Talia only this eye, happy posterity pick of my yard day. This must be what happy women feel. I think I also know that in a few hours, when the sun goes down, I will crash something about the color of the sky at du makes me feel gloomy and dark. It is irrational and it is also very real.

17 (52m 52s):
And when that happens, I won't remember what it felt like to be happy. So now I make a point to remember something else. I realized sadness comes back every day. It was there on the Latuda. It's there off the Latuda. The sadness is always in a corner. It goes where I go like a shadow or a Disney sidekick. I hate it. But I think it's mine. It's like accepting in the sixth grade. This is as tall as you're gonna get. And then I like realized that and I told my psychiatrist, I was like, I think

18 (53m 25s):
I'm probably gonna always be sad. Remember I was like, because that is the constant. And I think my entire life I've been looking for an answer of like, just, why am I so sad? And, and he was like, what if you just accept that, that is how you're gonna feel for the rest of your life? What decisions can you make for yourself to, you know, make life gentler and to do things that you wanna do and to, you know, like happiness or, I mean, non sadness. He said that, that wasn't like the goal that you could have a meaningful life where you can have a fulfilling life where you can have an influential life and you didn't necessarily have to have like a happy life.

18 (54m 12s):
And that was maybe like two months ago that he said that. And, and I, I think that was a turning point for me, because I think the thing that I was always trying to correct in myself and find language for is, you know, I feel like there's like, like a hole in my heart, like someone to go like a melon baller, you know, the melon ballers that you take. It's like a, it's like an ice cream. No, I know. Yeah. I know. I know. Those is how I feel like there's like a melon. Okay. I don't, this is yeah. But yeah. Now I'm just like, I guess that's the way it is. Yeah. Everybody's different

17 (54m 58s):
Fortunately. Or unfortunately it's still me. I come home to every day and I'm still learning who I am and what I'm like, but I am more curious about the too loud, too bright, too harsh world ever and ever more curious with 30% less abject terror. I'm not sure I like myself yet, but I do trust myself to go on this journey. Even if I end up in the backyard again, staring at a molting, Cardinal, who is so freaky looking, I take a picture of it and then cry.

2 (55m 40s):
Carla Cornejo Visio is the author of the book. The undocumented Americans. Her story for us was produced by Susan Burton.

2 (56m 28s):
Today's show was produced by me, BI AMI and edited by David Kestenbaum. The people who put together today's show include Elna baker, Susan Burton, Zoe chase, Sean Cole, Michael carte, Aviva de Cornfeld, Valerie KK, Tobin, low Mickey meek, Michelle Navarro stone Nelson, Catherine Rayo NAIA, Raymond Marisa Robertson, texter Ryan Rumery Charlotte sleeper, Laura Starche Lily Sullivan, Francis Swanson, Christopher with Matt Tierney, Julie Whitaker, and Diane w I'm managing editor is Sarah. Aberaman our executive editor in Manuel Barry special thanks today to tuck Woodstock and Rob Dubin. Sandy Allen is the author of the book, a kind of miraculous paradise.

2 (57m 8s):
My friend, Bela, who you heard talking about the weird feelings, her house gaper is actually working on a book about our feelings, about money, our website, this American life.org, where you can stream our archive of over 700 episodes for absolutely free. This American life is delivered to public radio stations by PX, the public radio exchange special thanks to our boss, IRA glass. He was on Sesame street the other week and cookie monster for once wanted to share retreat. He was like,

4 (57m 38s):
IRA,

2 (57m 39s):
Do you want cookie?

3 (57m 41s):
How could you ask me that you monster

2 (57m 43s):
I'm BI a glass will be back next week with more stories of this American life.