0 (0s):
Support for this American life comes from Geico. Geico asks, How would you love a chance to save some money on insurance? Of course you would. And when it comes to great rates on insurance, Geico can help like with insurance for your car, truck, motorcycle, boat, and rv, even help with homeowners or renters coverage. Plus, add an easy to use mobile app available, 24-hour roadside assistance and more. And Geico is an easy choice. Switch today and see all the ways you could save. It's easy. Simply go to geico.com or contact your local agent today. A quick warning, there are curse words that are un beeped in today's episode of the show. If you prefer a beeped version, you can find that at our website, this american life.org

1 (43s):
From no Z Chicago, it's this American Life Ira Glass. I am joined in the studio right now by my coworker, Tolo. Hey there, Tobin. Hi Ira. And I'm just gonna say that the story you're about to tell you acknowledge the existence of sex, but that's really all that you acknowledge that it exists. Tell me, tell me what happened.

0 (1m 2s):
Yeah. Okay. So this guy, Paul, this happened when he was in his early twenties and he arranges this hookup with a guy he meets online. And I should say the guy, his profile doesn't have that much info. Like it says he's closeted that if they're gonna meet up it, it has to be very discreet.

2 (1m 19s):
He said I couldn't go over to his place. And I, and I also had a roommate, so it would've been difficult for me to host him as well. So he told me, I know a spot, I know a spot that we can go, Why don't you just meet me at these cross streets at 10 o'clock? And I said, Okay, works for me. And so I drove over at night to where he told me to meet him. I get to the cross streets and he isn't there. There's nobody there. And so I think, Okay, no worries. He's running late. I'll just hang around for a bit.

0 (1m 54s):
And so finally he sees this guy standing on a corner and the guy backends for him to pull over.

2 (1m 59s):
And I'm like, Okay, great. Confirmation. It's him. Perfect. And I lower the window and I say to him, Oh, sorry about that. I just wasn't sure if it was you. And he was like, Don't sweat it, it's all good. And he gets in my car.

0 (2m 14s):
So Paul asks him, you know, Where are we going? And the guy starts to direct him to the hookup spot, like, you know, make a left up there, turn right at this corner. Things

2 (2m 23s):
Started to feel a little weird when several minutes passed and we were still driving because I had been under the assumption that this secret spot would've been like around the corner or something. So then I ask him, Well, where are we going? And then he says, Glendale. Now if you're not familiar with la, I mean the, the place where I picked him up was in Franklin Village. And Glendale isn't like super super far, but it's still close to a 20 minute drive.

2 (3m 4s):
Something must not be adding up here. And then I start to second guess everything that had happened on that ride so far. Like why, why wasn't he at the spot when he said he would be? You know, he was like a little bit further up. So then that was also weird.

0 (3m 21s):
And then he realizes

2 (3m 23s):
This must not be the guy, that there's no way that this is the guy I'm supposed to be meeting.

3 (3m 32s):
And

1 (3m 32s):
So was he scared? Like did he think this guy might like rob him or heard him in some way?

0 (3m 37s):
He actually, he doesn't have time to be scared because he pretty immediately realizes exactly what's happened. You know, like why a guy would wave you down and, and get into your car.

2 (3m 47s):
This was a total stranger to me who was there waiting for his rideshare driver.

1 (3m 59s):
See, once you say that, it seems totally obvious.

0 (4m 2s):
I know you would think, right? But can I present to you Paul's defense of himself,

1 (4m 7s):
Please.

0 (4m 8s):
So first of all, this was 2013, so if you remember that sort of like early in ride share culture. So the whole dance that happens where you waved on a driver, you get in and sort of people know what to say to each other. Like

1 (4m 21s):
That just wasn't in his head in the same way back then.

0 (4m 24s):
Exactly. The other thing is that the guy that he was supposed to meet up with his hookup, the photo on the profile was kind of grainy and he was wearing sunglasses in the photo. So Paul actually didn't have a clear picture in his mind of what the guy was supposed to look like.

1 (4m 42s):
Oh, okay.

0 (4m 43s):
Yeah. Though there is one more thing that's a little bit more of an obvious giveaway.

2 (4m 49s):
I always feel a little bit silly when people point out that he got in my backseat.

0 (4m 52s):
Oh, he got in the backseat of the car,

2 (4m 54s):
He got in my backseat. But I invite you to look at it from my perspective, because I thought that in a matter of moments I was going to be joining him in the backseat. Right? So I didn't think it was that weird, you know, like he was just preemptively getting in the back and

0 (5m 14s):
Oh, he's just, he's very, he's, he's thinking ahead. He's like,

2 (5m 17s):
He's thinking ahead. It's the more, it's the more spacious part of the car. And I didn't even know the name of the person I was meeting, so it's not like I could've been like, Hey, are you Andrew? Or whatever.

0 (5m 28s):
Oh, you didn't have a name to go off? I didn't

2 (5m 30s):
Either didn't, Yeah. Yeah. Like he could've gotten in and been like, Hey, are you here for Dave? And I would've been like, I don't know. I guess I am.

0 (5m 45s):
So now Paul has to make a decision, like, is he gonna say something?

2 (5m 49s):
I have no idea what to do because part of me wants to pull over and say to him, there's been a huge mistake. But then I realized that if I were to do that, I would have a lot of explaining to do because Right, he would've, he would've wanted to know why did I let him in my car?

0 (6m 12s):
Also, I should say by now, they've been driving in the car together for several minutes. So it's like way past the threshold for like a lighthearted oops. Like misunderstanding. Yeah. And then Paul, he has this more alarming thought,

2 (6m 29s):
If this is what I think, and this is somebody who is in fact just waiting for his Uber, then the actual driver is gonna be pulling up and trying to find him any second. Now, not even two seconds later. As soon as I had that realization, his phone rings,

0 (6m 44s):
Oh my god,

2 (6m 46s):
My heart stops because I know what it's gonna be before he even picks it up. I know it's gonna be his driver telling him that he's here. And I feel so foolish and I feel so embarrassed because I, I thought I was about to be outed. I panicked and my heart was racing and I did not know what to do. And then he picks up the phone.

0 (7m 10s):
Huh. And what, and what does he say?

2 (7m 13s):
He's saying things like, Huh, what do you mean I don't understand? What do you mean you're outside?

0 (7m 19s):
Oh my God.

2 (7m 21s):
And he was like, Huh, that's so weird. I, I, I'm already in the car.

0 (7m 28s):
And then Paul has this total perspective shift. Cuz now he's thinking about like, how is this gonna look from the backseat of the car?

2 (7m 36s):
That would be so frightening to be sitting in your Uber, get a call from your driver saying that they're outside. And then you look at the details of what car you're supposed to be, you know, looking for and what your driver looks like. See that your driver is not that person and the car is not that vehicle. If I were him, I would've thought, okay, I'm being kidnapped or like, what, what is happening right now?

0 (8m 4s):
So the guy hangs up the phone and it's at this point that Paul gets this gift from the gods.

2 (8m 11s):
He says to me, Do they ever send two drivers immediately? I was just like, Yeah, sometimes there's a glitch, sometimes there's a glitch and they send two drivers. That's what happened.

0 (8m 22s):
I can't believe he gets saved. I know. And you know, for the rest of the drive he commits to the part like he is Paul the Uber driver, which means he plays along as the guy in the back tries to make conversation,

2 (8m 35s):
Oh, how long have you been driving? Do you like it? Do you get paid well, Do you meet interesting people? Just things like that.

0 (8m 43s):
And how are you answering?

2 (8m 45s):
I was just making things up. Yeah, I've been not too, not too long. It's, it's alright, I got paid, right? Like the people are nice. Like I was just completely making it all up. The the funny thing is though that because I didn't know whether he thought I was Uber or Lyft or some other ride share, I had to be kind of vague because I didn't wanna say like, Oh yeah, Uber is great. And then he'd be like, Wait, I thought this was a Lyft. And I'd be like, that's what I mean.

0 (9m 12s):
The lucky thing for Paul is that because he asked for directions when the guy first got in the car, the guy doesn't really notice that Paul doesn't have like the app open or the GPS open. He's just comfortable giving him directions all the way to Glendale. So eventually they do end up at his house

2 (9m 28s):
And then as he's getting out of the car, I did like part of me, a tiny, tiny part of me was thinking still like, is this the guy? Like is he about to invite me inside? Like just trying to hold onto any glimmer of like this making sense.

0 (9m 48s):
And then incredibly, the guy does invite him up.

1 (9m 53s):
He does,

0 (9m 54s):
He does. And actually they are still together today.

1 (9m 59s):
Really?

0 (10m 0s):
No, of course not. The guy just wishes him a good night and goes into his house. That's it. And and the next day Paul got a message from his actual hookup and it turns out the guy just got scared and decided not to come. But to this day, Paul still stands by his decision,

2 (10m 16s):
You know what? I think it is for the best that I didn't set the record straight.

0 (10m 22s):
Cause in that case he just had like a totally normal night.

2 (10m 27s):
He had a totally normal night. And you know what? He got a free ride.

1 (10m 35s):
You know, it's hard to decide to set the record straight. The world usually does not wanna hear. It is almost always an inconvenient truth. Today on our program we have people who step up, tell the truth, the rest of us have not heard and sometimes do not want to hear and let the chips fall where they may stay with us. Ewan home test. So we begin today with a kid, 12 years old who's trying to figure out the truth to set things straight for himself. This boy Ilia, his family, had recently escaped from Mary PLE in Ukraine.

1 (11m 17s):
Mepo was a city that you may remember back in the spring everybody was trying to get out of. It was under siege for months. Food was running out. The Russians bombed a maternity in children's hospital, then a theater the people were using as a bomb shelter. Soldiers and civilians made a long last stand at the steel plant. There were lots of failed attempts to set up a humanitarian corridor. Big parts of the city were destroyed and his family managed to escape all that. They made it to Poland. And then last month, incredibly, they decided they wanted to go back to Mary Ple to see if their old home was a place they could still live. Producer Valerie Ness. Talk to Ilio about what happened.

4 (11m 57s):
I met Ilio while I was volunteering at a refugee center in Warsaw this past spring. One rainy day in June, I was showing a couple kids how to use a camera and interview one another. When Ilia walked into the room, I could tell he was interested but too shy to say much. I asked if he wanted to join us and one of the younger kids asked if they could interview him. They were eager to try with someone new. He shrugged and plopped himself in front of the camera. You could tell that outside of war times, Ilia was a cool kid. It was something about the way he carried himself.

4 (12m 40s):
I remember thinking about how dark the rings were under his eyes. I double checked as he sat in front of the camera. You sure you wanna do this? Why not? He said

5 (12m 51s):
Julia,

4 (12m 52s):
Who seven asks his name and how old he is. I applies. My name is Ilia and I am 12 years old. My city is Mario. I was born in Mario. I've lived there for a span of 12 years. All of them. I lived there until the Orks fill on us. That is, that's how I'm going to name such unpleasant characters. The ORs are his way of saying Russian soldiers. Then he tells the room, Okay, your second question is probably going to be about my feelings about the war. And then he went on to answer his own question.

4 (13m 34s):
He described watching as of style, the massive steel factory near his house that the Russians bombed for months as it burned for days on end about how he had hid in a basement while snipers fired at his home, right into their windows.

5 (13m 52s):
Says

4 (13m 52s):
The scariest feeling was when he finally made it to his grandma's house. A house he spent a lot of time in and it was completely burned down. There were corpses of people laying outside all around. He didn't know if his grandma was alive or not. We came to my grandma's and we couldn't enter because the house was completely mine. It wasn't until hours later he found out his grandmother had survived here. The 11 year old filming him stopped recording. Ilia covered his face with his Angry Birds t-shirt.

4 (14m 37s):
It was remarkable to me that he had made it out of Mario Bowl. And all the time I was in Poland, I didn't meet anyone else from his city. I and his family made it to one of Warsaw's nicer refugee centers, which offered them long-term housing. Doctors, lawyers, teachers and psychiatrists would come in to help on site. There was food and a playroom for kids. It was safe, well run, orderly. The day I met Ilia, he asked for my number right away. That's just the kind of kid he is. A little businessman sometimes in the mornings, if I was late to my shift, he would call me to make sure I was still coming and then confirm a time to be exact. He would then inform the others.

4 (15m 18s):
When I would arrive at the shelter, he would be waiting for me outside. Medallia was also more reserved than the other kids. He couldn't always break out of his quiet. When he did, he would get into long conversations with me using phrases like, Listen here, Val, or you gotta hear me out. Val. After months of hanging out with Ilia and the other kids, I had to go back to the States. On my last night working at the shelter, Alia walked me to the tram stop, which had become our daily tradition. He chased me with a water gun and laughed. He seemed to be getting used to Poland, but a few weeks later he called to say that his family, him, his mom, dad, and sister were making plans To go back.

4 (16m 3s):
Back to Marie, I hadn't heard of any families like Ilias who'd managed to escape Murray Bowl and make it all the way to safety in Poland to then try and return. After all the city was badly damaged and now under Russian control and the shelter they were in, it was one of the better ones, the ones most wanted to get into. I called Ilias mom

8 (16m 30s):
A job I needed do.

4 (16m 32s):
She told me that last week it was and sister's birthdays, they didn't want birthday parties. She said they didn't want anything no presents. The only thing that they wanted for their birthday were tickets home. I asked her, Have you been trying to prepare your children for the fact that things may be different

8 (16m 51s):
And progress was not? And

4 (16m 54s):
She said, I tell them, look how beautiful Wari is. Look at everything we have here when we come home. It's not going to be beautiful like this.

8 (17m 2s):
She

4 (17m 3s):
Says, she tells them that they're not gonna have ice cream and the kids say, We don't need any of this. We're ready to eat what we have. We just wanna go home. The truth is, i's mom felt the same way as her kids. She told me she'd rather wake up in her own home than staying Poland. They'd been on the run for months, stayed at so many temporary places and she felt no relief or comfort. And also this was a big part of it. She felt an obligation to her own parents who she left behind. But she also worried about what it would be like for her kids to see the city so changed. They'll have to come to their own conclusions. She said, I talked to Ilia for a while about it.

4 (17m 46s):
He said he wanted to go home because that's where his grandma is. He said, I'd rather be home. Where sure conditions aren't great that I can do as I like than just be like a little cat here not knowing my place. Prior to the war, I had spent most of his time living at his grandparents' house because his parents worked so much winning and his parents fled Marie. It was the first time he had left his grandma in his entire life. I'm worried about only one thing that he said, I really don't wanna go back to school. He said he wasn't worried about anything that might happen within the classroom. He was worried about actually getting there. He had heard that there were minds everywhere. He said it freaked him out.

9 (18m 27s):
Mama's popul,

4 (18m 29s):
He didn't like his parents leaving him to go to work at the factory for the same reason and told me he'd come up with a plan to start a business there so they could all work together selling backpacks and Nick Nas at the flea market or something. Ilia actually expected home to be different. He was aware that Russia had fully occupied his city and saw on social media that now even the sign at the entrance that said Mario had been changed. Okay, now, now look at the first photo that's, that's what they've changed it to.

4 (19m 11s):
And now look at the second photo. It says Mak and instead of a Ukrainian E, they added a Russian E. So they've already renamed it used to be, now it's Ma Ilia told me he and his sister been fighting about that. His sister thought that when they got home they should just make peace with the fact that Mario pulls, they knew it was now over that the Russians had won that this was their new life. Ilia refused to accept defeat. The Russians were the ones who destroyed the city. He figured Ukrainians would keep on fighting.

4 (19m 51s):
All in all, he had mixed feelings about returning. I wanna go when I don't wanna go. He's saying 50% one way, 50% the other, Yeah,

9 (20m 2s):
You could chew.

4 (20m 5s):
This is the thing he was trying to set straight for himself. Was PLE still gonna feel like home Two days later, mid-August. Ilia texted me from the road, by the way he wrote, We're already on route home. I don't know when I'll be able to write to you again. And then radio silence. I couldn't get a hold of Ilia or his mother. I stayed up into the morning hours scrolling through Ukrainian telegram channels made for this exact reason. Had there been a bombing, a missile strike that I had missed.

4 (20m 46s):
But then a couple days later, Ilia popped up on my screen. He wrote to me of bad news the border guards had and let his mom and sister into Ukraine because of a document issue. So the family decided to split up. His mom and sister returned back to Warsaw while he and his dad continued to Mario Poll. And then a few days later another text message came through. Ilia had made it. He wrote me an update the way he always texted in long run on sentences. Their apartment had light and water though the internet was spotty and there was no gas. But they'd bought an electric stove yesterday. So no more of that. On the first day back, he made sure to see his grandmother.

4 (21m 26s):
They hugged and drank tea together just like old times. He walked around the neighborhood with his dad. He told me he was nervous about filming outside because the soldiers didn't like it when people did that even. So he insisted on sending me at least one video i's hand is shaky as if he's trying to keep his phone hidden. But I can still make out the image. A large collapse building next to a bus stop. His favorite supermarket, the only thing left of it, it's metal beans.

9 (22m 1s):
Later

4 (22m 2s):
We talked on the phone, he told me I lived in the city for 11 years and I got used to certain things and now nothing really works like it used to. It's all broken down, he said. But their new house is being built. I mean you hear shots being fired from the distance. They're dein a lot right now. And then today at eight we heard machine gun rounds being fired we're from, I asked, well not from far away, nearby. When he went to the cemetery with his dad to visit some family who had been killed during the war, he was shocked.

4 (22m 42s):
You told me I went to the cemetery and there were so many graves, I can't even describe it to you. You can't even count them. It was so many. And this is only at one cemetery. We left some flowers, some candies, some cookies, a drink and some cigarettes because my mom's cousin and her husband, they used to smoke. And so that's a tradition. You just, you know, you leave them each one cigarette

9 (23m 9s):
Like publishing

4 (23m 11s):
According to local officials, the Russian Sege of PLE killed at least 22,000 people and maybe a lot more. And I talked a lot over the past few weeks. And as time went on, I began to notice something in our calls. The things that once bothered him, the soldiers, the minds, his sister's attitude about the war. He started to describe them differently. Like yes, lots of the city was a mess, but it didn't feel as bad as it had looked on his phone from Poland. He had light and electricity.

4 (23m 51s):
And when I asked if he was still nervous about those minds on his walk to school, he said No, I've already been walking and there's nothing there. The Russian soldiers just told me where to walk and where not to walk. So I've been listening to them. Ilia was now taking advice from the soldiers that occupied a city. I asked Ilia, are there lots of Russian soldiers there?

9 (24m 17s):
Yeah

4 (24m 17s):
And then there's Chechens and what they just walk around the city. I asked. Yeah, they just walk around the city to shops, to different places and how do they behave themselves? Excellent, polite. Honestly, when the CHS are here and the kids come up to them, they give you money so you can buy candy. His mom told me the CHS give him sodas and chips, Anything the kids ask for. When I asked I if it was weird for him that there are Russian soldiers everywhere. He told me I already got used to it. You think they'll stay there forever or for now forever.

4 (25m 0s):
Ilia told me he'd even made friends with some of the Russian and Che and soldiers. It felt strange to hear him say that. He knows it was Russia that started all this, but they're the ones in charge now. And he told me people get killed for being pro Ukraine. There are all kinds of things that don't make sense in i's life right now. There are parts of town that are destroyed and parts that are fine schools in session. But there are mines along the way. When you're living through a war, there's only so much you can set straight. You have to hold a lot of contradictions in your head at once. Ilia is getting pretty good at it.

1 (25m 44s):
Valley ness is one of the producers of our show show's. Mom and sister finally did make it to marry bull and surprised the grandparents. Ilia was there to film it this week. Russian president voir Putin decided agree. That made four regions of Ukraine into part of Russia officially, including where Ilia is right now. The United Nations Secretary General said the move went against everything. The international community is meant to stand for Act two.

1 (26m 28s):
Oh what a hang called Webre Weave. Quick heads up before we start the story. The dimension's part of the male anatomy. Take that under advisement pro and con decide what you're gonna do. It is not what the story is about. The story is about a creepy and dangerous creature that does all kinds of of terrible things. There's also about somebody who takes issue with every word I just said about that creature. Lily Sullivan met up with this person to hear her out.

12 (26m 52s):
This person is my friend Kelsey Paget. And if you run into her at a dinner party or a bar, maybe you happen to be standing behind her in the security line at the airport. She might ask you this,

13 (27m 3s):
What do you know about black widow spiders? What do you know?

12 (27m 8s):
Okay, I know that they're very poisonous. Like they have a really bad bite, like a bite that can kill you. Hmm. And and I know that the female after mating like kills the male and eats him.

13 (27m 24s):
Fantastic. That is exactly what most people know about black widow spiders. And you're totally wrong.

12 (27m 32s):
And this is Kelsey's mission to expose the lies about the spider being a wantin murder. S correct the record and restore her good name. Kelsey used to work as a park ranger in New York by the way. She also used to report science stories. And over the years she's amassed and absurd amount of information about these spiders.

13 (27m 52s):
So let me, let me tell you, I'll start with the black widow name. The idea that the black widow eats her husband or the spider, they just made it with that she, you know, is a, is a murderer dressed all in black mourning. A husband that they just killed.

12 (28m 14s):
Kelsey says the female eating the male. Okay this has happened but very rarely and it's barely a noticeable trait. If you look around at what the rest of spiders are doing,

13 (28m 25s):
Many species of baby spiders, which are called spiders, often eat their siblings right after hatching and some species of spiders even eat their own mother after hatching. Oh and sexual cannibalism, which is like eating your mate after he has done the deed with you is very common in the spider world. Oh but you know who's, who is not common that much for is black widow spiders. They only do this in captivity. It's practically never been seen in the wild in the northern hemisphere.

12 (29m 2s):
Meanwhile the male spider, he's no Mr. Rogers check out what he does.

13 (29m 8s):
So the male black widow will sometimes go around to the the female's web and sort of clip off little parts of it so that she has no exit routes. And then he will go up next to her and like calmly like sort of caress her and then he throws a web of his own over her to then populate with her.

12 (29m 38s):
Oh

13 (29m 39s):
And the scientists have called that web the bridal veil, which is so not what that should be called. Are you serious? Oh my God. But this, it strikes me as a very weird behavior. And if I were a person naming spiders and saw that sometimes the female ate the male after eating, but also that the male does this crazy thing and like ties down the lady basically I might name the spider after that. But why didn't they? Because they were men and they thought it was exceptional that the female killed the male. Oh my gosh. Can't have that.

12 (30m 19s):
A lot of species of spiders do this bridal veil thing. One theory is the one Kelsey lays out that the male's trapping the female. There's another newer one too, which is more accepted by scientists now, but it's more seduction than a trap. As a scientist put it, when they explained it to me, it's bondage. Yep. Spiders do bondage myth number two that her bite is fatal.

13 (30m 52s):
So from 1950 to 1959 the data we have says that there were 63 deaths in the US from black widow spiders.

12 (31m 1s):
Interestingly, most of the black widow bite victims back then seemed to be male in an older study they were 80% male. Here's a theory as to why.

13 (31m 12s):
So most of the reported black widow bites from this time happened in what were called outdoor privies outhouses. So black widow spiders, they enjoy dark low to the ground sort of places. They especially love to make their cobwebs between two objects. Hmm. And so because bugs like stinky places, you know like imagine flies, right? There's flies and outhouses that it makes it great like food supply. Right. And to get to the stinky stuff, you gotta go through the bowl. Right, Right, right. So putting your web there is excellent.

13 (31m 56s):
So imagine this, it's 1950s, you're a dude, you need to go number two, you make your way out to the outhouse, you sit down and your junk hangs there

12 (32m 9s):
Hangs. Yep. That's what she said.

13 (32m 12s):
And as it does, it hits the cob web and the usually non-aggressive black widow instinctually runs over and bites down on the new creature that has landed on its web.

12 (32m 26s):
Oh my God.

13 (32m 27s):
Okay,

12 (32m 28s):
So that is like kind of terrifying though. It

13 (32m 30s):
Is, isn't it?

12 (32m 31s):
Yeah.

13 (32m 32s):
Yeah. There's like not even, you can't even imagine a better situation tailored to getting bit by this like usually very non aggressive spider, they don't come after you.

12 (32m 43s):
And the statistic that you saw. Yeah. How many bites were on penises?

13 (32m 49s):
The majority were on on penises.

12 (32m 53s):
Oh my god. She thinks all these penis bites happening so regularly might be one of the reasons there were so many deaths back then.

13 (33m 0s):
The skin there is less thick and there are lots of nerves there. Right. And this is a neurotoxin venom, so oh,

12 (33m 8s):
Oh, oh.

13 (33m 9s):
Perhaps being bit on the genitals sends the venom going into your body in like a faster or stronger way than say if you were bid on a callous on your foot.

12 (33m 22s):
Anyway, the point is once more people had indoor plumbing along with improved access to medical care, the numbers which weren't that high to begin with, they've gone way down. And in the last several decades there's no record of anyone dying from a black widow spider. No one in fact black widow's usually a pretty shy spider. Scientists have even done tests where they poke and prod her trying to elicit a bite and she turns to other defenses, first tries to run away, curls up into a little ball, no bigger than a quarter. Sometimes she throws silk at the danger to try to escape the bite is her last resort.

13 (34m 1s):
So yeah, I think that the world should know that they've been lied to and that this this, the black widow spider's not that bad.

12 (34m 9s):
And Kelsey has a proposal to set the record straight, change the spider's name easy, get rid of the name, but Myers her and all this twisted lower she doesn't deserve.

13 (34m 19s):
I think that's what it looks like. Renaming her black widow spiders. Were not always called black widow spiders. They've had many different names. Some of the names are the hourglass spider, the tea bar spider, the me walk people indigenous to California called the spider Poco Mu.

12 (34m 39s):
The ones you likes best though

13 (34m 41s):
The shoe button spider.

12 (34m 43s):
So cute.

13 (34m 44s):
The shoe button spider. Yeah,

12 (34m 46s):
She looks like a button after all. A little round one. So I decided to test out this new name on the people I thought were the best suited to judge.

14 (34m 55s):
It was like my whole chest was in a vice script.

12 (34m 58s):
I spoke with eight people who'd been bitten, talked to 11 others over email. Here are some of them

14 (35m 4s):
I imagine like the worst cramp that you've ever had in your life.

15 (35m 6s):
Like Charlie horsing your leg. But that being my whole

14 (35m 9s):
Back like a really bad Charlie horse that doesn't stop and envelopes your whole chest, right? I

15 (35m 15s):
Was like twisting up my body and I was like holding onto the side panels of the vehicle and bracing myself when it was happening. And so I, weirdly enough, I kind of wondered like is this like what it feels like to go into labor?

12 (35m 30s):
Not everyone who's bit has a bad reaction like this. And again, bites are very rare and a lot of the time they're mild, but when it's bad, it's bad. So I ran Kelsey's idea by them. Do you think we should rename the black widow spider, the shoe button Spider 13 people wait in, no one was into it.

16 (35m 52s):
Oh my god. I do not, I do not like that at all. No, no offense to the people who named that the shoe button spider back in the old days. But that is a very lame name.

12 (36m 3s):
This is Jenna. She got bit eight years ago in a porta potty at Coachella.

16 (36m 9s):
Have you ever seen a black widow spider? Like they, they look cool, you know, they are sort of like sort of a spider he shouldn't mess with and they probably have a bad rap. But I do like Black Widow like it, it, it gives it some power and and I think those spiders definitely have power.

12 (36m 30s):
Someone else who'd been bit told me, honestly I think Black Widow is an excellent name where I spider. I would feel really cool with a name like that.

1 (36m 46s):
Billy Sullivan is one of the producers of our show, Kelsey Paget hosting an upcoming podcast all about big rivalries in history and gossipy petty feuds. It comes out next month. Keep your eyes out for that going up. Democrats and Republicans and Congress are doing such a great job coming to thoughtful bipartisan solutions to our nation's problems. Let's see what they do with UFOs. That's in a minute. Chicago Bubble Radio when our program continues.

17 (37m 18s):
This is Nate Taylor and I cover the Kansas City Chiefs for the Athletic. I'm from Kansas City so I've watched this team my entire life. There are hundreds of my colleagues who care just as deeply about their teams and give our subscribers those details that they could not have gotten anywhere else. The athletics in depth personalized sports coverage is now part of the New York Times All Access subscription. You can find out more about subscribing to the athletic in New York Times all access at n y times.com/athletic.

1 (37m 50s):
This American Life am Ira Glass. Today's program setting the record straight stories of people who feel very strongly that they have to clarify what's true and what's false about something very important to them. We've arrived at like three of our program at three UF no so far today we've heard a bunch of people setting the record straight on something. And now it is my pleasure to introduce our senior editor David Kestenbaum, who's usually very measured was something he wants to get off his chest.

0 (38m 20s):
The thing I'd like the record set straight on UFOs are not real. They are not aliens from other planets come to visit us. Yes, I know the Pentagon recently announced a new program to study weird stuff pilots are seeing. Yes, I know there was that super long New Yorker story or maybe you saw the 60 minutes piece.

18 (38m 39s):
We have tackled many strange stories on 60 minutes, but perhaps none like this.

0 (38m 45s):
It was pretty good tv.

18 (38m 46s):
So what you are telling me is that UFOs unidentified flying objects are real. Bill. I think we're beyond that already.

0 (38m 58s):
Unidentified does not mean alien spacecraft, it means unidentified. Or maybe you saw these videos, the navy release,

3 (39m 6s):
There's a whole fleet of overlook on the asa. My gosh. Oh, going against the wind. The wind's a hundred point out the west thing dude.

0 (39m 18s):
And even even this guy,

19 (39m 20s):
What is true and I'm, I'm actually being serious here.

0 (39m 24s):
President Obama,

19 (39m 25s):
There's footage and records of objects in the skies that we don't know exactly what they are. We can't explain how they moved their trajectory. They, they did not have an easily explainable pattern.

0 (39m 43s):
Ah, particularly maddening. Our conversations I've had with people I know about this and midway through I realize, oh I have to be polite because it's clear they think this is real. No more polite. I have reasons for thinking all this is bullshit science reasons for aliens to actually visit us. If they exist in the first place, they would either need to be insanely patient or be able to travel faster than the speed of light. Cuz the nearest stars are crazy far away. I was a grad student in physics. I worked on one of those giant particle accelerators. I can tell you, you can try to make those particles go as fast as you want.

0 (40m 23s):
They get very close to the speed of light, but they do not go faster. We got to 99.999954% of the speed of light. You can double the amount of energy you're using and it doesn't double the speed. It just gets you a tiny bit closer to the speed of light. The universe really does seem to have a speed limit. That's what the equations tell us. I mean, maybe there is some way around it, but it really, really does not seem like it. And think about it for a second. In the fifties it maybe made sense that all the UFO photos were blurry and hard to decipher. But today every single person with a smartphone has a super powerful camera in their pocket.

0 (41m 3s):
That's billions of cameras. If aliens spacecraft are here, shouldn't we have better pictures? And the fact that basically no scientists seem interested in this at all and prefer to dwell on say detailed questions of how solar systems form it tells you something. If any of these photos or radar blips or whatever really were alien craft, it would be the greatest discovery of all time. I can't think of a font big enough for the front page, but basically every scientist in every university is sitting it out as Neil deGrasse Tyson, the astrophysicist who runs the planetarium at the American Museum of Natural History put it, he was talking about the people who believe these things are spaceships.

0 (41m 44s):
Quote, the fact that you don't know what it is, is not evidence that you know what it is. Okay. You know why science exists? He says cuz the human sensory system sucks. Unfortunately, with scientists off doing, you know, science, there is almost no one left to try to set the record straight. No one to quote in those news stories saying, you know, I think that's just a weather balloon. If they do quote someone, it's often this guy Mick West.

20 (42m 15s):
I've looked at literally hundreds if not thousands of UFO cases cuz people send by them all the time and there's always new ones coming up.

0 (42m 24s):
Mick runs a website called Meta Bunk where he and others try to really run these things down. Sometimes they figure out the object in the photo or video was a plane by finding the actual plane from maps and flight records, or one of my favorites. There was this photo, someone on a vacation took of these mysterious lights up in the sky over the water. Mick thought it looked like a reflection off the window. It was taken from inside. So he found the actual rental house based on the position of the mountains in the photo called the homeowner, convinced her to take a photo from the same spot by the window and confirmed, yes, a reflection of the living room lights.

20 (42m 59s):
Most UFO cases are really, really simple and boring. Occasionally though you get an interesting one. And the most interesting ones are the ones that you get, you know, from the government.

0 (43m 10s):
I called Mic earlier this year because something exciting was about to happen. There's going to be a congressional hearing on UFOs the first in 50 years, which meant finally the experts were gonna weigh in on the record in front of Congress. This stuff, unexplained things seen by pilots or on radar is usually secret. But now we are gonna hear from the people actually looking into these things. Presumably with the help of the smartest scientists, I wanted them to set the record straight. And in these partisan times when red and blue America seem to violently disagree about everything under the sun, this is one issue. Neither side has a stake in. Come on America, maybe we can agree on something.

0 (43m 53s):
I would like that. I really would. The morning of the hearing M West and I got on a zoom together to watch it live. He's on the West coast, so it was little before 6:00 AM his time. We're waiting for it to start. How you feeling about this thing?

20 (44m 12s):
It's gonna be very interesting. I suspect it's gonna be a mixed bag.

0 (44m 19s):
I mean, for me, like for me, I, I think unless they have a, a scientist there testifying, it could be very hard for me to watch.

20 (44m 28s):
Yeah. Well I think what they're gonna talk about about is setting up the program and procedures.

0 (44m 36s):
Oh, then I can talk about the evidence. They're not gonna go.

20 (44m 38s):
They are I think. I think they are. Like I, I heard this morning that, you know, this is kind of new, that they may be showing some video and talking about their analysis of the video, which of course is super interesting for me because you know I'm well about video analysis.

0 (44m 54s):
The feed of the hearing started,

21 (44m 56s):
The subcommittee will come to order without

0 (44m 58s):
Objection. Big formal hearing room on Capitol Hill. Couple of large American flags in the back

21 (45m 3s):
More than 50 years ago, the US government ended project Blue Book,

0 (45m 8s):
That's the chair of this house Intelligence subcommittee, Congressman Andre Carson, Democrat from Indiana. He was kind of weird and also delightful to hear a discussion of UFOs wrapped up in the formalism of a congressional hearing. It turns out the government sorts through the question of whether we have been visited by aliens the same way it does any other problem. There's a task force, this one set up last November

21 (45m 30s):
Called the Airborne Object Identification and Management synchronization group or aim. So,

20 (45m 38s):
So that's how you pronounce this

21 (45m 39s):
Today. We will bring that organization out of the shadows.

0 (45m 43s):
Yes, bring it out of the shadows. There were two very high ranking officials there to testify and answer questions from the lawmakers. Unidentified under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence and Security, Ronald Multry and Scott Bray, Deputy Director of Naval Intelligence Bray, laid out what the new task force was doing. They now have a formalized system for say, pilots to report things they see. And currently a database of 400 incidents. They're going through them trying to figure out what they are. As I hoped international, working with all kinds of smart people,

22 (46m 14s):
Subject matter experts from a wide variety of fields, including physics, optics, metallurgy, meteorology,

0 (46m 21s):
UFOs, by the way, have now been rebranded. UAPs unidentified aerial phenomena. I think so. Pilots won't be embarrassed to report sightings. The military does have real concerns.

22 (46m 33s):
Incursions in our training ranges by unidentified objects represent serious hazards to safety of flight.

0 (46m 38s):
Bra said there are several categories of what these things could be. Airborne clutter like a balloon, atmospheric phenomena and some weather thing. They could be something of our, maybe a drone, something from one of our adversaries, which might pose a national security threat or one final category. A bin he called other, which allows for the possibility of surprise and scientific discovery. He did not seem to wanna say aliens,

22 (47m 5s):
Department of Defense.

0 (47m 6s):
Then things got interesting. Ray turned to a screen in the hearing room.

22 (47m 11s):
In this video, US Navy personnel recorded what appears to be triangle. Some flashing recorded several years ago off the coast of the United States.

0 (47m 19s):
This is a video that had been leaked a while ago but never explained. It's wild looking. The footage is green because it's shot with night vision goggles. And what you see are these very clear triangles. They really appear to be some sort of triangular craft blinking. Several years Mick was not impressed.

20 (47m 38s):
This is this what? This video is bullshit. These are, this essentially is a camera artifact and it's probably a plane,

0 (47m 44s):
A camera artifact. Mick claims they're not really triangle shaped. He thinks it's a kind of optical illusion created by the camera itself. Next bra shows a still image with another mysterious green triangle, just like the ones in the video.

22 (47m 58s):
Several years later and off a different coast. US navy personnel, again through night vision goggles and an SLR camera recorded this image. But this time other US Navy assets also observed unmanned aerial systems nearby,

0 (48m 15s):
Meaning drones or something like that. Grace is there, what the camera was seeing.

22 (48m 20s):
The triangular appearance is a result of light passing through the night vision goggles and then being recorded by an SLR camera.

20 (48m 28s):
Thank you. Excellent.

0 (48m 31s):
How'd you feel about that? He just showed the video and, and it looked really bad and then he actually explained it.

20 (48m 36s):
Yeah, that that's great. That's something, you know, I've been talking about that video for like, well every a year now and right from the, you know, 10 seconds after the video was posted, I recognized what it was and posted that it was just a camera artifact.

0 (48m 50s):
But no one in the government has said that.

20 (48m 52s):
No, no one said that. And the person who leaks it has been vehemently insisting that you, there's actual pyramid shaped craft flying around. And that's you. I'm, I'm like completely wrong. But now it's, you know, they've, Scott Bras just explained that I was correct. Which is, which is great. Put that one to rest.

0 (49m 12s):
One record set straight. One unidentified flying object identified. Scott Bra showed another video, which he said was more typical. This was one M Hadn. See for example, it was new, hadn't been previously released,

22 (49m 33s):
Which shows an observation in real time. All

20 (49m 36s):
Right, what is this?

0 (49m 40s):
This one is from an F 18 unclassified. It's shot out the window with what seems like someone's phone. And for the tiniest fraction of a second, something flips by, it's there and then it's gone.

22 (49m 52s):
There it was.

20 (49m 53s):
What was I did it.

22 (49m 55s):
That's, in many cases, that's all that a report may include.

20 (50m 1s):
Dang it. I didn't just say it. Share it again. Chairman

0 (50m 4s):
Schmick gets his wish.

23 (50m 5s):
Mr. Break, can you rerun that first image that looked like it was outside of a plain window?

0 (50m 11s):
Congressman Adam Schiff, Democrat from California Chair of the House Intelligence Committee.

23 (50m 16s):
And if you wouldn't mind going up to the screen and tell us what we're, what we're seeing, Explain what we should be looking at in that first image.

22 (50m 24s):
Absolutely.

0 (50m 25s):
It turns out the technical capability of the US military has its limits. They have a real hard time stopping the video at the exact frame where this thing flashes by. They try for four minutes.

23 (50m 36s):
Okay. If you could stop that frame. That's not the one, That's not the one.

20 (50m 42s):
This is terrible video. Terrible example. It's almost certainly a balloon. Airborne Plus. It's not demonstrating any, No, as you can see, advanced maneuvering or anything.

22 (50m 54s):
What you see here is aircraft that is operating in a, in a US Navy training range that has observed spherical object in that area. And as they fly by it, they take a video. You see a, it looks reflective in this video. Somewhat reflective,

20 (51m 15s):
Somewhat reflective. Cause it's Mylar balloon

22 (51m 18s):
And it quickly passes by the cockpit of the, of the aircraft.

23 (51m 23s):
And is this one of the phenomenon that we can't explain? I

22 (51m 27s):
Do not have an explanation for what this, this specific object

23 (51m 32s):
Is. And is this one of the situations where it is That's, that's the object that we're looking at right there. Thank you. And is this the situation where it was observed by the pilot and it was also recorded by the aircraft's instruments?

22 (51m 48s):
We'll talk about the multi-sensor part in a later session.

0 (51m 52s):
Later session means the behind closed doors part where they go over all the classified stuff, translation, they have other data radar or some advanced sensing that who knows, maybe gives them a pretty good idea of what this is or what it isn't. But because it's classified, they can't talk about it.

20 (52m 10s):
Not helpful.

0 (52m 12s):
And then this happened, Mike Gallagher, Republican from Wisconsin asked a bunch of questions, Bre and also under Secretary Moultrie. And he seems to be in prosecutor mode. Like he's trying to get something important on the record, basically. Do you know of any other programs currently looking into UAPs? Answer No. Describe anyone's from the past decades. We don't know about DOD or contractor then this,

22 (52m 36s):
It's also been reported that there have been UAP observed and interacting with and flying over sensitive military facilities. Particularly not just ranges, but some facilities housing are strategic nuclear forces. One such incident allegedly occurred at Malmstrom Air Force Base in which 10 of our nuclear ICBMs were rendered inoperable. At the same time, a glowing red orb was observed overhead. I'm not commenting on the accuracy of this. I'm,

20 (52m 60s):
This is a big part of UFO and mythology.

22 (53m 2s):
You have any comment on the accuracy of that report? Let me pass that to Mr.

23 (53m 4s):
Brave. If you've been looking at UAPs over the last three

22 (53m 7s):
Years, that data is not within the holdings of the UAP task force. Okay. But are you aware of the, the report I have, I have heard stories. I have not seen the official data on that. Well, I I mean, it's a pretty high profile incident. I don't claim to be an expert on this, but that's out there in the ether. You're, you're the guys investigating it. I mean, who else is doing it?

24 (53m 32s):
If something was officially brought to our attention, we would look at it. There are many things that are out there in the ether that aren't officially brought to our attention.

22 (53m 38s):
So how would it have to be officially brought to your attention? I'm bringing it to your attention. Sure. So this is pretty official. Sure.

24 (53m 44s):
So we'll go back and take a look at it. But generally there is some authoritative figure that says there is an incident that occurred. We'd like you to look at this.

22 (53m 52s):
Well, I don't claim to be an authoritative figure, but for what it's worth, I would like you to look in into it and Sure. For

0 (53m 57s):
Another reason. Now, there was something that needed explaining a red orb, nuclear ICBMs becoming inoperable. I figured there must be data on that cell phone, video, radar, computer records. But Nick explained that there wouldn't be this incident. It allegedly happened in the 1960s.

3 (54m 21s):
We

21 (54m 21s):
Will recess this hearing and returned in the closed session at noon.

20 (54m 25s):
Well, there we go.

0 (54m 27s):
Then it was over the first UFO hearing in Congress in 50 years. Mick and I had different reactions to the hearing. He thought it went fine.

20 (54m 36s):
I I, I thought this hearing was good in that we did get some new data out. I think it was fairly well balanced and they talked a lot about the process that they're going to set up.

0 (54m 48s):
I was pretty frustrated. I'd wanted someone to say, Look, there is no reason to think any of these things are alien spacecraft or we do not have definitive evidence of anything that violates the laws of physics. Mick wanted that last one too, actually. We didn't get it. How do you feel about the, like unending nature of this? You know what I mean? Everyone's gonna walk away from every one of these hearings. Yeah. Believing exactly whatever they want. Yeah. Yeah. People who wanna believe in aliens will say, Look, we had a hearing. This is real. You know, and people like, you're gonna say, Look, they showed that video and actually explained what it was. See,

20 (55m 23s):
Yeah, it, it never ends. But it's a topic that's impossible to end because there's always going to be unidentified flying objects.

0 (55m 33s):
This is a horrible thought that I hadn't really grappled with. There will always be blurry photos of things in the sky. Probably more now that everyone has a cell phone with them all the time. So there really is only one way the record will ever get set straight. But we will get an answer to whether aliens are here on earth. And that's if we actually find them. In other words, the believers can win. My side can't. You can never prove aliens aren't here.

3 (56m 4s):
But

0 (56m 4s):
I'm telling you they're not.

3 (56m 13s):
David

0 (56m 14s):
Keston Bow is our program. Senior Editor.

3 (56m 23s):
When you doing what you do, it's damn true. Tells telling like its tell how you live. Tell when you're doing what you do. It's true.

1 (56m 36s):
Well, was produced today by Chris Benderev. People put together today's program include Sean Cole, Michael Kamae, Ava Cornfeld, Haja, Tolo, Stone, Nelson, Catherine, Ray, Mondo, Nadia, Raymond, Marisa, Robertson Texter, Ryan Rumery, Charlotte Sleeper, Francis Swanson, Christopher Matt Tierny, Julie Whitaker and Diane w are managing editors. Sarah Aberaman, our senior editors, David Kestenbaum, our executive editors Manuel Barry. Special thanks today to Jackson Landers, Liz Haynes, Joe Cashin, Gar Spy, Meg Fryer mouth, Jenna Kale, Katherine Perkins, and Dr. Catherine Scott who a scientist who helped us so much with the Black Widow story. If you wanna read more about Black Widow Behavior and Misinformation, check out Dr. Scott's blog, spider bites.org.

1 (57m 17s):
That spider b yts.org, our website, this american life.org, you can stream our archive of over 750 D episodes for absolutely free. This American Life is delivered to public radio stations by prx, the public radio exchange, like as always, to a program's co-founder, Mr. To Maia. You know, even though he is management, he decided he wanted to run for shop. Stewart always wanted to be part of the union. It's kind of a weird dream, but he says,

15 (57m 45s):
I kind of wondered like, is this like what it feels like to go into labor?

1 (57m 49s):
Am I glass back next week? More stories of this American life Next week on the podcast of This American

25 (58m 14s):
Says it every day. But this is the key. You can't just come out here and fly your flags. You gotta go home and get involved. You gotta get in the fight.

1 (58m 19s):
There's this whole movement fill the lower ranks of the Republican party, the precinct committee jobs with people who think the last election was stolen.

25 (58m 26s):
Take over the Republican party. We have to mag a the Republican

1 (58m 29s):
Party. What that's gonna do to this false elections. The ones after it next within the radio station.