0 (0s):
Support for this American life comes from Good RX Fall is coming, and that means seasonal colds, allergies, and of course, flu season good RX can help with good rx, you can save up to 80% on the prescriptions you need to get through the season. For simple smart prescription savings, just check GoodRx. Go to goodrx.com/tal In 2021, GoodRx users saved 81% on retail prescription prices. A quick warning, there are curse words that are un beeped in today's episode of the show. If you prefer a beeped version, you can find that at our website this american life.org.

1 (39s):
Okay, so we're gonna start this week's show with something that's been going on behind the scenes of this year's midterm election. It's called the precinct Strategy is something that's been around for a while, but it wasn't a big thing until last year when Steve Bannon, remember Steve Bannon got ahold of the idea and started pushing it on his podcast.

2 (59s):
So Dan, the floor is yours. You're, you're, you're about to offer a course on personal political empowerment. How do they do it, Dan?

1 (1m 8s):
This right here is the video that started it all. It's from February, 2021, just Steve Bannon being the Steve Bannon would come to know. He's wearing at least three shirts. He's framed by a row of mega hats lined up on a mantle, and he's bringing on this guest who is a long time Arizona activist named Dan Schultz. Dan Schult is here to solve a problem.

3 (1m 28s):
Thanks Steve. It's, it's real simple and most people learn this, at least I did back in the late sixties and seventh grade in social studies in,

1 (1m 37s):
So what do you guys ask here? The way that Schultz and Ben in see this, the reason that Donald Trump isn't president anymore, it's not just, you know, election fraud by the Democrats, that's obviously a given for them. But the real problem in 2020 is the Republicans who let them get away with it, who didn't do every last thing in their power to keep President Trump in office. What they're talking about is the mainstream Republicans in, you know, Arizona and Georgia and Michigan, people who went ahead and certified the election results with Joe Biden accepted that Trump lost, did not stand by him in his neediest hour to prevent that from happening again. Dan Schultz and Steve Bannon want an army, a mag enthusiast to be in place and be ready for the coming election in just a few weeks.

1 (2m 23s):
And they're gonna do this by getting people to sign up for the lowest level positions in the Republican party. There's a job called precinct committeemen.

3 (2m 32s):
I've got my PC button on. Precinct committeemen. Precinct committeemen are the party. And if, if you wanna put up graphic number four I it, it basically explains that there's about 400,000 of these par party positions in our party nationwide, but over 200,000 of 'em are vacant. What we have to do is we have to take over the party and there's only one way to do it. The precinct committeemen are the party

1 (3m 7s):
Precinct committeemen do all kinds of political grunt work, door knocking, phone banking, leafleting. They often work as official poll watchers on election day for the party. But in addition, and this might not sound like a big deal, but it's key. They often elect officials higher up in the Republican party who like the officials even higher up than that, who like the state parties and the National party decide where the GOP is gonna spend money on what races to back. They decide the party platform. They determine what the party officially stands for. These are the jobs at the bottom that Steve Bannon wants to fill. The people who believe that the last election was stolen, People who are very excited at the chance to do something, anything to prevent an election from being stolen again.

1 (3m 52s):
And Bannon has kept the drumbeat going for months and months to get MAGA stop the steel people to sign up for these jobs. For instance, in August band and pulled the audience of the moment of truth summit in Missouri, which was hosted by Mike Dell, the MyPillow guy who's turned election conspiracy theist. Look

4 (4m 8s):
How many guys here are precinct committeeman? Look at that. Wow, you stand up, stand up the precinct committee.

1 (4m 17s):
A few weeks back, Bannon asked one of his correspondence at Trump rally in Pennsylvania, the poll group of supporters there.

4 (4m 23s):
Okay, question from Steve to everybody here. How many of you are precinct committeemen or how many of you are gonna become precinct committee men to take over the Republican party? We've got one, two, I'm a

5 (4m 33s):
Committee

4 (4m 34s):
Election judge of elections. We got three

5 (4m 37s):
For state committee, but we got two people in at 16.

4 (4m 40s):
Okay, so we got four. Anyone else? And if you, if you aren't yet, you gotta do it. This is the key guys and to the audience out there, Steve says it every day. But this is the key. You can't just come out here and fly your flags. You gotta get in the fight, knock, knock on doors, make phone calls, go to the elections offices, take over the Republican party. We have to mag a the Republican party

1 (4m 59s):
Person. If it's reported that there's this surge of news, stop the steel recruits becoming precinct committeemen around the country. For the Republican party was Isaac Arnor. He was a propublican when he did that these days. His politics reporter at the Washington Post and he's been tracking this takeover of the Republican party in swing states all over the country. He allowed us to tag along with him. We were happy to go. He on one of our producers, Zoe Chase, hit the road together to see how the presence of these stop. The Steelers is changing things. If they get their way, it's gonna shift the party and the way we do elections pretty fundamentally for years to come. From wbz Chicago, it's this American life. I'm our glass. Stay with us One.

1 (5m 47s):
So today on our show, we're gonna look at how all this is playing out in Arizona. A place that some mega people like to call Zo. And we chose Arizona because the movement there has really been setting the pace for the rest of the country. People who believe the 2020 election was stolen, tried to recall Republican officials there. They also pushed for a hand recount of millions of ballots. That became a model for other states around the country who tried it. Even though in Arizona it revealed that Joe Biden won the election with even more votes than they had thought. The audit in Arizona galvanized tons of people who wanted to do more and lots of those people jumped into the precinct strategy. So in Arizona you can really see the effect that strategy is having.

1 (6m 27s):
That is what Isaac and Zoe have been out there co reporting. Here's Isaac

7 (6m 32s):
All over the country, almost everywhere I called Georgia, Florida, Texas, there were local level Republican officials who were getting flooded with new people wanting to become precinct committee members. A lot of these officials didn't know about the precinct strategy. They hadn't seen Steve Bannon's interview with Dan Schultz and they were frankly a little puzzled by what was happening. Like Kathy Pets in Maricopa County, Arizona.

8 (6m 58s):
It was a rainstorm of people who all of a sudden outta the woodwork were wanting to suddenly become precinct committee members. I used to get like two or three people a month and now I was getting 40 to 50. Yeah. Oh, I'm not kidding. I see you're look, no 40 to 50 applications like thrown at me it sometimes in a week.

7 (7m 29s):
Kathy is old school and OG Republican. She says she was stuffing mailers for the party when she was 12 or 13 when she was a teenager. She was awarded outstanding teenage Republican. She got to meet President Reagan in the Rose garden, puts a McCain sign on her lawn every year for his birthday. She's been a precinct committee member for 40 years as district chair. She had 454 precinct committee slots as she had a clear idea of who a precinct committee member should be, someone who knows the neighborhood and the people in it. Someone knowledgeable about local Republican politics. And Kathy wanted to know who are all these new people who suddenly wanted to do this unglamorous job.

7 (8m 11s):
She started taking the applicants out to meet one on one.

8 (8m 15s):
I ended up having coffee with 156 people I've never met before. And about it, I mean sometimes it was multiple times a day I would go and meet with people. They would start bringing up the things that we've all heard about, the videos, the this and that. No, this is out there and you really should watch this and you should read this. And to try to explain to me like how I really didn't know anything about the election and the process. Yeah, like

9 (8m 45s):
Basically saying there's like a conspiracy rigging this election. Yes, you've been involved in local politics for a long time, but you don't understand the depth of this

8 (8m 53s):
Conspiracy stand. No, they would. Yeah. And so, you know, we would have an interesting conversation. I don't mind paying for their coffees. I, you know, it's interesting. No one rational, no one who has a, you know, is voted over and over and over again actually believes that.

7 (9m 14s):
To be clear, not all the new applicants thought the election was stolen, but a lot of them did. And Kathy thought what they were saying was nuts. As the district chair, Kathy had the authority to appoint the new precinct committee members or not other chairs in other districts were like, cool, whatever. Sign him up. But Kathy decided she was gonna screen the new people

8 (9m 36s):
And after every meeting I would go back and just kind of look at, maybe I'd look up their voter history only to find out that some of them actually weren't registered Republicans. Some many had only recently registered to vote, had never voted, but in a coffee or a meeting or something with them, they would tell me about massive fraud they'd seen. And I think you never voted. You know, I, I felt like, you know, it's my, I'm the one signing off, right? I wanna feel pretty comfortable about what I'm signing off on and it's my prerogative.

8 (10m 18s):
It says in our bylaws, it my choice.

7 (10m 22s):
So those people who just registered to vote talking about massive fraud, pleasure to meet you see around Kathy's gonna look for someone else to fill that slot.

9 (10m 31s):
This was also like your sneaky criteria for eliminating some of these new stop this steel people. I feel like sneaking

8 (10m 40s):
Who isn't sneaking, How could that be sneaky

9 (10m 43s):
I guess cuz it's like, I think what I mean by the word sneaky is like you could say if you believe the election was stolen, then you don't get to be,

8 (10m 50s):
It's a standard. It was a fair standard. You wanna talk about the election? I wanna talk about her with people who actually participate in elections.

7 (11m 1s):
Kathy didn't think people who were telling her about massive voter fraud would make good messengers for the party. They weren't wild about her either.

9 (11m 18s):
I spoke with one of the people Kathy was trying to keep out of the precinct committee, Marissa Hamilton. And when I brought up Kathy's name, Marissa Lunged lobbying the worst insult you could against a fellow Republican

10 (11m 30s):
Kathy pets, a supported, quietly supported Biden. She wouldn't let people become precinct committeemen if they supported Trump. So have you interviewed Kathy Pets? Yeah, yeah, yeah. She's lying to you. So Kathy Pets did not support Trump. She told people to vote for Biden. She was a never Trumper, a bold, never Trumper.

9 (11m 52s):
Kathy actually seems to be a once. Trumper says she supported him in 2016, just not anymore still Cathy insists she never supported Biden and didn't tell anybody else to either the ideas in Athema to Cathy. And she would only invite Marissa says she heard that Cathy even recruited Democrats to switch parties and become Republicans in order to install them as precinct committeemen under her control to keep control of her legislative district. This may have happened in only one case, I think, and I believe Kathy didn't know the Republican donor she recruited was actually a registered Democrat in her mad dash to recruit PCs who didn't believe the election was stolen.

9 (12m 33s):
Anyway, Marissa found out the kinds of people Kathy was recruiting all while people like her were being ignored and she was mad also. Kathy stopped holding regular PC meetings. She says because of covid, Marissa thinks it was to keep people out so she wouldn't have to hear from those who disagreed with her within her legislative district. People say LD here.

10 (12m 54s):
I felt that the frustrations that we saw would stop the steel came from people not knowing how to operate their government, not knowing how to participate. But if you're, if you're living in an LD where the chair won't let you participate, then of course it's going to manifest into something like stop the steel. Because people are going to have no other outlet than to just be mad.

9 (13m 17s):
This feud isn't just Kathy versus Marissa. Everywhere you go, there's some version of old school Republicans getting overrun by mega election deniers. This ground floor precinct level of the party. Mesa believes the election was compromised. We'll never know who won. She says, But things of herself is more reasonable than other. Stop the Steelers and a data expert of sorts cuz of work she's done in the past in supply chain management. Right after 2020 she launched her own research project into how many dead people were voting. She claimed to have found 33. The attorney General then looked at it and found that only one of those was real. It wasn't an nefarious ballot harvester from the Democrats.

9 (13m 57s):
It was a Republican who voted her recently deceased mother's ballot. And she was indicted. Marissa says, Kathy ridiculed any research into the 2020 election, which made her especially mad. Kathy says she has no idea what Marissa is referring to, but Kathy doesn't have any patience for that kind of research. It's true.

8 (14m 17s):
You know, she's one of those who glams on to, hey, here's an idea that everybody's like making hay out of and I'm gonna do it too cuz I don't have anything else going on. I might as well do this. And so that's her deal. She's a good grifter, really good grifter, harsh Cathy. But it's true, it's sad. She could, she could do good, but she chooses to mislead people and that's, I have no space for that.

9 (14m 46s):
Marissa started rallying other PCs and wanna be PCs who'd been blocked by Kathy pets to do something about her.

10 (14m 52s):
And I was like, So what do you wanna do? And he was like, We're firing pets. And I said, Okay, let's just get people organized to work in the district.

9 (15m 4s):
They called a meeting a meet and greet. She called it, others called it a resistance meeting.

10 (15m 9s):
We had almost 40 to 50 people show up. It quickly turned into a very loud, rowdy conversation. They wanted to fire Kathy Sis. They were mad that she wasn't letting them participate. These are active, these are active sitting PCs that are elected PCs.

9 (15m 26s):
Then Mari and her crew gone to work around in the bylaws, the way to go over Kathy's head to get people onto Kathy's precinct committees. She could send the applications to the Republican county chair who wasn't on Team Kathy.

10 (15m 40s):
Then she could approve it and give it to the recorder's office. You got a hundred to 200

9 (15m 46s):
Precinct committee men appointed that way. Yes, that's what Marissa says. Kathy says was more like 25 to 30 people who got it over her head. In any case, that's how Marissa and a whole bunch of new stop the steel recruits got on Kathy's committee. Kathy was trying to jam it on a pot that was boiling over

7 (16m 13s):
Even before this attempt to take over precinct committee positions. The Arizona Republican party was pretty dominated by bag of people. And after they tried to recall the Republican elected officials who certified the election and after they spent millions of dollars to recount ballots by hand, their next target was this election, the midterms they wanted to put stop the Steelers in office, who would actually do in future elections, what Republican officials wouldn't do in 2020.

11 (16m 41s):
Because when I'm governor we're take sledge to these.

7 (16m 49s):
That's Carrie Lake, former local news anchor. Now a candidate for governor. She said she would not have certified the 2020 election results. Same goes for Markham, a candidate for Secretary of State, which is the top elections official. Fiji is also an Oathkeeper who is at the capital on January 6th, though he says he wasn't involved in the violence. Both Lake and fin wanna get rid of vote counting machines, get rid of voting by mail. If they take office, they'd be in the position to refuse to certify future elections. These are the candidates that the new precinct committee people are generally supporting. In the primary, they had competition from more mainstream establishment Republicans.

7 (17m 31s):
Politicians who didn't claim the election was stolen. People Kathy supported.

8 (17m 40s):
Hi, how are you? I'm Kathy.

9 (17m 43s):
A few days before the August primary Kathy's outdoor knocking, getting out the vote for Karen Taylor Robeson establishment candidate running against the aforementioned election truther. Carrie Lee. Kathy is the most determined, maybe desperate door knocker I've ever met. Almost seven days a week for months. Now she's door knocking. She wears the same big sun hat each day, washes her vote t-shirt most nights. It's almost a full-time job. Seems like today she's brought Bo with her running for Secretary of State says he was recruited by the business community of Phoenix because the real Republicans are concerned that the Trump endorsed Oathkeeper. Fiche is leading in the polls.

8 (18m 22s):
I thought

13 (18m 23s):
We're with the Republican party.

8 (18m 25s):
I'm, I'm a precinct committee member. I'm here for Bow Lane Bo and I actually were teenager Republicans together at Central High School. And Karen Robson Taylor, who's also a fellow native Arizona. Okay. And she's running for governor state of Arizona.

14 (18m 42s):
I I, I seen a lot of that.

8 (18m 44s):
Have you? Have you made a decision on governor yet? No.

14 (18m 48s):
I tell you, we need some changes here, that's for sure.

8 (18m 51s):
Well

9 (18m 51s):
I hope that change is not really what Kathy is selling. Unfortunately, we only stop at one house where someone's outwardly enthusiastic for her candidate. Karen, at our last stop, Kathy leans over a fence as a woman. Explains why she'd never vote for her.

13 (19m 6s):
I was considering her, but she did two things that I found unacceptable. One is actually putting pens up with her. I'm sorry, I barely respect for that math and God, I can't remember the other one right now. But she did two things and that was one of them. Huh? If she's bringing in people that I have no respect for and I've also done some research, she's getting a lot of out-of-state money and much rather see instate money.

8 (19m 34s):
Well so is Kerry Lake by the way. I

13 (19m 37s):
Don't care about, I don't want that.

8 (19m 38s):
Thank you. Well these are other people. I've pulled out her information.

13 (19m 42s):
I more than capable of doing my researching. Well, would you consider voting for me for state? I consider a voting for you're not young opinion.

8 (19m 49s):
And so do you think you're gonna vote for Kerry Lake then?

13 (19m 52s):
I'm not certain.

8 (19m 53s):
Well, please re please think about Karen again. I I we would appreciate your consideration of her because we know her personally. We know that she would be a great executive. She has the right skills. She has executive leader. Well, Kerry Lake read content on the news. Yes

13 (20m 12s):
She did. Which I don't admire any media, but I do admire somebody says enough is enough and I'm not gonna do it anymore.

8 (20m 17s):
She was never in the trenches. She's somebody who when we were trying to get Republicans elected for president, had

13 (20m 23s):
A job and I'm where have she voted for Obama? And I don't care. People get to change their mind. They get to smart enough. I did. Okay,

8 (20m 31s):
Well good luck. Well, and thank you very much. And I,

9 (20m 33s):
As we walk away, we hear a distinct, fuck you called after us legitimate back in the car. They're moving on to the next neighborhood. Do you ever think you're being like

8 (20m 45s):
In movie, I can't if I'm in a nightmare and like how in the world did everything turn on its head?

15 (20m 60s):
Well do you

8 (21m 2s):
I do. You know what's, you know it's hard is that, you know, we had a great group of congressmen from Arizona and now we have sort of this back venture kind of group that went off on these crazy conspiracy theories.

15 (21m 21s):
I don't know. I mean this is your party. Like this is where the new energy in the party is coming from. All this stolen election stuff.

8 (21m 32s):
If the party really is serious about winning, then they look at who are the best candidates that can win a general election. We are not here. There is a big group of us. We are not here for half time.

9 (21m 45s):
Arizona is known as a fairly conservative state at least until 2020. But actually only about a third of the state's registered voters are Republicans. A little less than a third are Democrats, the rest are independents. So whoever wins the general has to win with independence. Kathy thinks the Kerry Lakes of the world can't do that. But that's not who voting in the Republican primary, not who's filling up the precinct slots in the local Republican party.

7 (22m 18s):
One of the biggest things these stop the steel newbies are doing now that they're part of the party organization at the bottom rung as precinct committee people, is that they're setting up an infrastructure to watch all the voting locations in the midterms to catch the fraud they didn't catch in 2020. They've signed up as official Republican party. Poll watchers at voting

16 (22m 37s):
Locations was

7 (22m 38s):
On primary day outside one of those locations. A big suburban church in Mesa Republican. We meet up with Peggy Dumas, someone who never paid attention to her precinct until she's just became a committee member. She's got her snacks, her knit a notebook and a pen to take notes. It's her first time pole watching. She picked a quiet polling place. I thought Peggy would be excited to get a piece of the action to catch the cheaters red handed. But actually she didn't want that.

16 (23m 8s):
You know, I get worked out, you know me and they probably throw you

7 (23m 17s):
Basically she's scared she's gonna hulk out.

16 (23m 19s):
I have to confront somebody. It's not gonna get crazy. So I have to watch my

8 (23m 24s):
Temper.

16 (23m 26s):
Like what do you imagine happening? Not really nothing I think. I think it's because they know we're watching

7 (23m 34s):
Going with her as she voted just before her shift, Peggy was super suspicious that something was gonna go down. What kind of pen? She brought her own pen to vote because in 2020 some of the polling places provided Sharpie pens and there was a conspiracy theory that the machines couldn't read those ballots.

17 (23m 51s):
Which is fine. Okay, what kind of pens are we talking about? Well the pin is in there. So they're felt tip. No, I'm not using felt tip. That's not happening.

9 (23m 60s):
Peggy is a classic new precinct committee member. Before it was the Sharpies, it was the birth certificate.

17 (24m 6s):
I've really got involved in it probably since I was involved in the Tea party back during Obama. Why are you doing air quotes at Obama? Cause you don't even wanna know. You don't wanna go into all that. That's, that's done and over with. There's nothing we can do about it that's over. So that's what got me involved then. And then of course with this election in 2020,

9 (24m 35s):
This was a tough time for Peggy in a way. She said she quit her job during the pandemic. She thought she might be ready to retire. Her job was, she helped people who were underwater figure out how to pay off their debts. She lives alone with her dogs whom she dots on. And she ended up spending a ton of time on her phone reading about the election being stolen by nefarious actors. Like a lot of people I talked to, the radicalizing moment for Peggy was the moment that Fox called the election for Biden so early. Like it just seemed so obvious to her that the fix was in, There must be more Trump voters than Biden ones in Arizona. Long car caravans of them rallies with thousands and thousands of people.

9 (25m 16s):
The only way Biden could have won is cheating. And for Peggy, just the frustration that nobody did anything about it. She saw the Bannon video, she signed up as a pc.

17 (25m 27s):
The PC strategy is the way to take and elect the right people. Get the right people elected. Okay. Period. Get the rhinos out. I don't like them either. I dislike the rhinos worse than of the Democrats. You're supposed to be a Republican and you don't support us. I I dislike them worse cuz they're, as far as I'm concerned, they're traders

7 (25m 58s):
Now that all these people who believe there's fraud everywhere are gonna be stationed inside the polls. I wanted to find out what instructions they were getting. What were they gonna do once they were there. We tried getting into one of these trainings in Arizona but the state party wouldn't let us. But this is happening all over the country. It's the same idea. And we were able to listen in on a training in Georgia. Okay.

18 (26m 21s):
I was confused when not interfere with the process and yet we're supposed to watch very keenly the emptying over Dropbox.

19 (26m 30s):
Okay? So if you see somebody coming in with a large number of ballots,

7 (26m 35s):
Hang on, lets deal with this. In lots of states, including Georgia, it's illegal to deliver other people's ballots except family and household members. There are a lot of conspiracy theories about Democrats going around with big stacks of fake ballots and sticking them in drop boxes. So if that's what you see, here's what the trainer says you should do,

19 (26m 56s):
You go immediately to the poll manager and you and you question them and say, I think I saw somebody come in and drop off more than one ballot and maybe a few more than one ballot and see what they do. So I wouldn't run after the person and ask them any questions or talk to them. I would go outside and I would take a picture of them and I would take a picture of their, their their license. Okay. And take a picture of their car. As much evidence as we could

7 (27m 31s):
Get. This is the point they keep coming back to over and over gather evidence that Republicans can use in lawsuits to challenge the results. Not just in this county in Georgia, but everywhere.

19 (27m 43s):
So then we could take that and open an investigation and use that as evidence. Right? But do not talk to them. Do not ask them questions. Do not confront them. Do not talk to any voters.

7 (27m 58s):
Now I'm not sure that following someone out to their car and taking pictures of their license plate wouldn't lead to a confrontation. But the thing that really struck me was the people taking the training. They weren't shying away from the action. Like Peggy, they sounded like they were spoiling for a fight. They wanted to catch wrongdoers in the act.

18 (28m 18s):
I just wanted the feeling that I get from this pole watching thing cuz they were watching a mugging and all we're doing is taking definition. Yes, you we're just, we're just, you not allowed to say anything. We're describing the assailant and being able to turn it over to the police who aren't do anything about it an hour later and then hope that they do. Yes, exactly. Well this is where, But if this is what we're here for, this is, this is the definition of this job watcher where we are noting and declaring and documenting then get it.

19 (28m 45s):
So that is the simplistic explanation. But if there's a problem we can address it right away. We have attorneys and we are not gonna wait and we're not gonna wait for a lane Secretary state to not do anything.

7 (29m 3s):
I don't wanna give you the wrong impression. Most of this training was pretty by the book a PowerPoint with lots of boring details about the state law. The poll watchers get long detailed checklists of all the little things they're supposed to write down and photograph. Even the serial numbers for the zip ties that are used to lock up the voting machines. Tons of stuff that could be used in a lawsuit challenging the results

9 (29m 27s):
Back in Arizona. I'm doing a ride along with another first time people watcher watching on primary day

20 (29m 33s):
And you know, it's pretty simple. You just watch for things that are out of the ordinary. I have binoculars if I need 'em.

9 (29m 45s):
Mark's not an official poll watcher with the Republican party. He's operating sort of off the books. Okay. He volunteers with we the people AZ alliance. It's a group co-founded by one of the newer district chairman. Mark's whole job during the primary is to drive around an enormous black car and observe polling places from the parking lot looking for infractions. You feel that was, he takes notes in a little book.

15 (30m 8s):
You tell me. What are you writing down?

20 (30m 12s):
One of the pole watchers. Leman, that's all. You're a journalist, aren't you? Okay, where was the follow up question?

15 (30m 22s):
How did you know it was a pole watcher?

20 (30m 24s):
What just walked behind us without looking?

15 (30m 28s):
Well I, there was a voter. Okay. Basically has the green envelope. Okay,

20 (30m 33s):
Good. How many?

15 (30m 35s):
It looked like two. Very

20 (30m 36s):
Good.

15 (30m 37s):
But yeah. How did you know it was a pole watcher?

20 (30m 42s):
Because it's one of us. That's why. Okay. How many is she carrying?

15 (30m 48s):
I didn't see. Okay.

20 (30m 50s):
She's carrying one. How many are those two carrying?

15 (30m 55s):
I can't

20 (30m 56s):
See. Oh, okay. None. They're going in the vote. Okay.

9 (31m 10s):
Mark dates his distrust of the government back to nine 11. One of the many tattoos that covers his arms commemorates the towers.

15 (31m 17s):
Is there anything you could see out here with your own eyes that would convince you that the fix isn't in that there's not cheating?

20 (31m 29s):
I guess I'm just suspicious of everything. You, you have to have eyes that everything is wrong.

9 (31m 39s):
We head to another polling station when we pull out, someone replaces us. Apparently

20 (31m 45s):
Somebody is coming. Yes. Oh

21 (31m 46s):
Wow.

15 (31m 48s):
Is there someone there can't be someone at every single spot is there,

20 (31m 55s):
I'm just gonna say this, that the evil doers do not know, will not know whether there is or isn't. And I have to leave it there

9 (32m 16s):
At the next place we see something suspicious. Someone may be campaigning inside the 75 foot perimeter candidate. They appear to be right on the line to me. Sure. Mark's trying to snap a good picture of them with their faces to include in his report.

20 (32m 31s):
Okay. See yeah. All. Come on honey. One more time. There it is. All right, we're gonna do this, this stay buckled up cuz we're gonna go.

9 (32m 43s):
He jumps out of the car. I have no idea why. I know he told me not to, but I follow him. He takes his selfie with them and then comes back to the car. He's clearly mad at me.

15 (32m 55s):
I'm sorry.

20 (32m 57s):
Now he thinks word for I was,

15 (33m 1s):
I was confused. I didn't know what you were doing. I didn't wanna miss it.

20 (33m 7s):
You have a windshield in front of you,

15 (33m 11s):
But it's radio.

9 (33m 14s):
He's writing down his report. 4 28. He's whispering, which is the time situation. We're burned at that place now. He says

20 (33m 22s):
When you opened that door, I lost complete control of the situation. And I know you don't fully under

15 (33m 30s):
Pinpoint four miles turn left onto.

20 (33m 33s):
I know you don't fully understand why Mark is agitated to the level he is, but one of them is the safety

15 (33m 44s):
Gonna be doing this at the general election too?

21 (33m 47s):
Yeah.

15 (33m 49s):
Are you worried about that?

21 (33m 50s):
Yeah.

15 (33m 52s):
Are you worried about

20 (33m 57s):
That? The election's gonna get stolen again. Did you ever watch a video of President Trump being in this rotunda, this great hall and he's got a bunch of people around him and he said something about the storm and a reporter asked, you know, what's the storm Mr. President? And his re response was, you'll see. What do you think the storm is?

15 (34m 35s):
What does it mean to you

20 (34m 39s):
At the moment it was said, it was just said Right. Time rolls on. It's very obvious what the storm is and I'm sorry that you don't see it.

15 (34m 52s):
What is it?

20 (34m 54s):
We're the storm the people think about. I can't give you all the answers lady.

9 (35m 15s):
Anything of note in Mark's reports is put into a spreadsheet I'm told. So if it's like someone gets out of a red Honda with a whole bunch of ballots and then later someone else sees a red Honda and someone getting out with a bunch of ballots, it'll be caught and they can investigate further if that's maybe an illegal ballot harvester

6 (35m 40s):
To see

7 (35m 41s):
It's primary night. I'm with Kathy at the watch party for her candidate, the establishment candidate Karen Taylor Robson. We're in a ballroom at a really fancy resort. They're serving canopies duck and Grier tarts. The crowd here is feeling great right now because Karen Taylor ropes in is leading Trump endorsed. Kerry Lake comes from ld. Karen lives in LD 28, Cathy's district

23 (36m 5s):
28. We're gonna gonna call him the establishment. Okay. You know we did.

7 (36m 9s):
This is definitely

23 (36m 10s):
The establishment. This is right here.

8 (36m 12s):
Well, you know what? Guess

23 (36m 14s):
What? They work hard. They give money and they get people. And if that's the establishment, we'll take it all day long.

7 (36m 23s):
Kathy and I go to the bar for a drink. So I stop recording for a while. As the night goes on, the results start to change as more election day ballots are counted. Carrie Lake is closing the gap. Finally, she takes the lead for a few minutes. I'm alone with Kathy. She's tearing up and staring off blankly. I'm gonna be sick. She says at one point I can't be a PC in this. I turned my recorder on again.

22 (36m 50s):
Okay,

8 (36m 52s):
Well which has happened. We had our candidate for governor is now down by 1,033 votes after leading all night, she may not pull it out. And this was our hope at having a competent, capable, pragmatic candidate for the governorship here in Arizona and not have to deal with somebody who just makes up lies and spews them as her own personal truth.

8 (37m 36s):
So I'm disappointed right now

7 (37m 47s):
After the primary Kathy has to think about what to do. She isn't gonna go out knocking on a thousand doors for these nominees who she can't stomach. There are some local candidates she'll campaign for and registering people to vote. She's been approached to sign on to some lists of Republicans endorsing the democratic candidates. But Kathy won't go there. She isn't the party chair in her district anymore. She actually decided not to run again. But the newbies didn't let her grow quietly anyway. They made their move with a formal proceeding against her a few months before the primary, before her term as district chairman ended

13 (38m 23s):
To be sent. So we're going to proceed with the hearing and we'll go from there.

7 (38m 29s):
Kathy describes this proceeding as a kangaroo court. It was a trial overseen by the county chair of the Maricopa County Republican Party mCRC and adjudicated by a committee of her fellow district chairman.

13 (38m 41s):
Whoa, whoa, whoa. It says in the rules that she has to say whether she pleads guilty or not Guilty.

8 (38m 48s):
Not guilty. Okay,

13 (38m 49s):
Thank you. You may proceed

7 (38m 51s):
Upfront. There's a long table with the executive committee like a tribunal with small tables around the room with the other district chairman who are like the jurors. Kathy sits at the table, nearest the door, the charge against her. She was accused of endorsing a Democrat in a Phoenix city council race last year.

24 (39m 9s):
As best as how long have you been a PC and how long have you been a member of the mCRC?

8 (39m 14s):
Excuse me, Could you please pronounce my name properly?

24 (39m 17s):
I would love to. I don't know how to

8 (39m 20s):
How long have you been a precinct committee member?

24 (39m 23s):
About seven months.

8 (39m 25s):
Okay. I've been one 40 years.

24 (39m 27s):
Congratulations. Point of order. Please answer the question.

8 (39m 30s):
Please pronounce my name properly. How?

24 (39m 33s):
Please tell me how to pronounce your name.

8 (39m 34s):
It's spelled P E T S A

24 (39m 40s):
S. And it is pronounced

8 (39m 42s):
Pets.

24 (39m 42s):
That is exactly what I

8 (39m 44s):
Said. You said pets Des

13 (39m 47s):
Go ahead.

8 (39m 48s):
And I'm chairman pets.

7 (39m 50s):
Eventually the prosecutor gives up on the Socratic method and just reads aloud from Kathy's quote in the newspaper saying something nice about the Democratic City Council candidate. Kathy argues that this quote is not an endorsement and the race wasn't even partisan. One of Kathy's supporters points out that Carrie Lake, the gubernatorial candidate who the stopped the Steelers love, she supported Obama in 2008. This is if Ms. Lake, the county chair's not having it. I don't know what this has to do with anything. She says,

13 (40m 21s):
I don't know what this has to do with do that

8 (40m 25s):
One out. I think that means is this similar kangaroo court going to happen to Ms. Lake since this is a year later and you're bringing something up like this. Are you going to do the same thing to Ms Late if she's governor I'm,

24 (40m 40s):
She's,

8 (40m 42s):
What are you gonna do? No, stop. Answer the question Kevin.

13 (40m 44s):
This,

7 (40m 45s):
He's Kathy's asked to step out of the room. She refuses challenges the secret ballot.

8 (40m 51s):
I make the motion that this vote be roll call vote and be in the minutes of who voted yay or ne.

7 (41m 1s):
She goes down fighting, but she goes down. The verdict is guilty. Kathy gets stripped of her voting rights as a precinct committee member. We talked about it later on the phone.

16 (41m 12s):
I mean it feels terrible. You know, it feels gut wrenching now. This isn't what you work hard for to be treated this way.

7 (41m 33s):
Kathy still goes to her district meetings even though she's not the chair anymore. The new chair is one of the guys who plotted to overthrow Kathy. There's an ongoing dispute over whether she's allowed to vote on anything. She spends the meetings needle pointing, the meetings open with prayers. Now that's new.

25 (41m 52s):
We pray for those that are volunteering to watch the vote. We pray that if there is any wrongdoing it would be caught and stopped. We thank you and pray for each of the precinct committee people and each

7 (42m 8s):
Of the volunteers. So Kathy is gritting her teeth, refusing to give up because she's sure the party under this new leadership is bound to implode. And when it does, she wants to be there to pick up the pieces. We talked about it with her and her husband. Bill over dinner after the meeting.

26 (42m 23s):
You know, we're optimistic it'll pass. I don't know if it's probably not this cycle. It might be another cycle or two, but it will pass.

25 (42m 31s):
I don't know. It has to,

26 (42m 34s):
Well first of all Trump's 77, 78. But Carrie Lake's 52. Yeah, it's without Trump. There's not like, I mean I know they're trying to make the movement without Trump like to survive it, but I'm, I'm not as op, I'm not as optimistic for them that that will happen.

7 (42m 56s):
I told Bill I wasn't so sure. Making the mag a movement endure without Trump is what the precinct strategy is all about. It's making election denial a permanent fixture of the G O P institutionalized within the party organization itself. So deeply ingrained that you can extract it. You can't just lap off the head. It's MAGA all the way down.

2 (43m 19s):
So we're taking over the Republican party for the precinct committee strategy. We're taking over all the elections suck on this.

1 (43m 31s):
Thank you Steve. Ben Isaac stores the National political reporter at the Washington Post. Zoe Chase is one of the producers of our show. Isaac is working on a book about the mega movement trying to take over the Republican party and America. It's called Ground Game. It'll be out next fall. Coming up righteous middle schoolers monitoring a teacher who of course is supposed to be monitoring them. That's in a minute. From Chicago Bubble Radio when our program continues.

0 (43m 58s):
Support for this American life comes from Squarespace. Squarespace is the all in one platform for building your brand and growing your business online. Stand out with a beautiful website, engage with your audience and sell anything your products, content you create and even your time. Get started with a best in class website template and customize it to fit your needs. Stand out in any inbox with Squarespace, email campaigns and every Squarespace website and online store comes with a suite of integrated features and useful guides that help maximize prominence among search results. Head to squarespace.com/american for a free trial. And when you're ready to launch, use offer code American to save 10% off your first purchase of a website or domain

27 (44m 35s):
Support for this American life comes from BlackRock. Are you looking for the best way to stay updated on the biggest market trends on the bid? A podcast from BlackRock. We break down what's happening in the world of investing and explore the forces changing the economy and finance from geopolitics and inflation to sustainability and technology. BlackRock speaks to thought leaders and industry experts from around the globe about the biggest trends moving markets. Subscribe to the bid wherever you get your podcasts.

28 (45m 1s):
I'm Kevin Ru.

29 (45m 1s):
And I'm Casey Newton. We're the host of Hard Fork, a show from the New York Times.

28 (45m 6s):
Casey, you and I have covered the tech industry for like the last decade and it really feels like Silicon Valley is shifting now toward these new ideas like crypto and the metaverse and ai.

29 (45m 16s):
It feels like a real turning point. We're gonna talk about these stories. We're gonna bring in other journalists, newsmakers, whoever else is involved in building this future. To explain to us what's changing and why it all matters.

28 (45m 27s):
Listen to Hard Fork

29 (45m 29s):
Wherever you get your podcast.

1 (45m 32s):
Dis American Life, Our glass. Today's program. Watching the watchers, people deciding on their own that it is their job to make sure that bad things don't happen. And then beginning their own surveillance of suspected wrongdoers. We've arrived at act two of our show, Act two. I'll be watching you. Sixth grade isn't that old, but it's old enough to tell right from wrong. And it's old enough to know that adults aren't always perfect. And at Davisville Middle School in Rhode Island, this one sixth grader couldn't help but notice that one of his teachers was doing stuff that just felt a little weird. Much, much later the teacher would be removed from the school for his behavior. But at this stage earlier on, the sixth grader was seeing certain things for the first time.

1 (46m 13s):
Like at Halloween,

30 (46m 14s):
He was like making remarks about some of the girls' costumes and makeup that were coming off as creepy and flirtatious.

1 (46m 21s):
What'd he say?

30 (46m 22s):
Like getting in close to them and saying how they're, or this, this girl's like thing looked ridiculous. It was making fun of her in a way to flirt with her like,

1 (46m 31s):
And he was standing very close to her physically.

30 (46m 34s):
He was just, he was just getting in closer and he was kinda leaning in a way where it looked it, it just seemed creepy. It something seemed off about it. You could just sense it. I don't know. It seemed like she was uncomfortable by it, like nervously laughing at it

1 (46m 48s):
Every time this teacher did other things. He says the kinds of stuff the kids notice. He asked the girl to take off her shoe and wiggle or toes for him. Made an unsettling joke about how everybody should come to school in their bathing suits. And as the school year continued, that one girl from Howen was a special target.

30 (47m 4s):
And I would remember him always stopping the class to make remarks about her, her appearance or calling her pet names, making like a play on like her name, pull in like nursery rhymes for songs. He just started conversation with her individually in front of the whole class. Like talking about stuff that was not related to class. Just to make her laugh. You can notice she's like, like nervously laughing or blushing at it. Other kids in the class were like weirded out by it. Everybody sits there in like awkward silence as you do that.

1 (47m 43s):
Did you ever talk to her about it?

30 (47m 47s):
Not that year, no. But she did make comments the next year about how she hated when he would do that.

1 (47m 53s):
He says other girls make comments too.

30 (47m 55s):
They would say like, Oh he's weird. Like they wouldn't use creepy. They he's weird to us. He's weird. I don't like him. I don't like him being weird. I, at first in sixth grade I kind of questioned maybe this is just normal how teachers act, how some treat girls. But like my friends all confirmed, they're like, no, this guy's creepy. Like I had said it to some of my friends on the bus, some people at the bus stop too and they'd be like, Oh yeah, I noticed that too. He's really creepy. Did you know he said blah blah blah. He did blah blah blah. And I was like, okay, it's obviously not just me thinking.

1 (48m 33s):
And it wasn't just the way this teacher was with the girls. The sixth grader says he was kind of a jerk with the boys. He says, any kind of off task behavior get you reprimanded if you were a boy. Send to the office. He says the teacher actually bragged that so many kids had complained about him in the past for being strict. He said they could try themselves, wouldn't do any good. All of this bothered the sixth grader enough that he went to two different adults. One of them was his mom and he didn't go into a lot of depth, but he told them, this teacher's a creep parts with the girls in class. He's a peto. And both adults were like, Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Take a breath.

30 (49m 9s):
So they're like, don't make such accusations. Like don't throw such stuff around cuz that's, that's a very serious accusation and that's perfectly understandable. I understand that

1 (49m 18s):
He, his friends couldn't let it go though. They talk about it when they'd hang out and they were online playing Minecraft or Super Smash Brothers. It just seemed wrong and so lack any power to do anything else. They talked about it and joked about it. Finally they decided to do the one thing you can do when you can't fix what's wrong with the world but still feel a strong sense of outrage. They became watchers. They decided to document everything the teacher did with the girls that seemed weird or inappropriate to them in a Discord channel. They set up discord, if you don't know is a messaging platform they called the Discord channel

30 (49m 51s):
PTO database.

1 (49m 53s):
Did you guys think of, oh this is, this is that we came up with a great name.

30 (49m 56s):
We just did it. Yeah, we just did it cuz the name was funny.

1 (49m 60s):
To be clear, he knows he is using the word peto loosely. The Pito database was an inside joke between a small group of boys who hated this teacher cuz he was so harsh with them. But they were also totally serious about the way he was treating the girls and And is the idea that you think you might accumulate enough evidence that you guys will go to the authorities at some point?

30 (50m 22s):
I don't know what that was. I mean in the, in my log we just said this is now the official chat that we will later use is evidence against him about pedophilia. That's the word I used in case anything does come up in the future and we do turn out to be correct. And I said whenever he said something creepy towards the girls in our class post and quotes with the date here,

1 (50m 42s):
Logging the date was actually something they got from watching TV and movies. True crime.

30 (50m 46s):
Like keeping dates, Keeping times like keeping stuff logged on paper. And then we gave, I gave an example of something he had said that day and that's how it began.

1 (50m 56s):
What was the thing he had said that day?

30 (50m 59s):
He had had called a girl the word like he had said bad to them, like bad dog type thing, but then use your name. Right,

1 (51m 8s):
Right. Like bad Melanie.

30 (51m 10s):
Yeah, exactly. Well I had under it said in a flirty way multiple times today towards multiple girls in the class including, and then I put their names and evidence posts will be kind of like this. That's, that's what I said. That was the establishing like thing there. After that everybody just, they understood and they took it seriously about putting the dates and stuff

1 (51m 30s):
And every few weeks the teacher did something noteworthy enough that one of the boys would jotted down on a pad secretly right then in class or type it directly into Discord on his phone, adding an entry to the database log. These kids finished with that teacher moved on to the next teacher. But to keep the law going, they enlisted kids who had in the next year and they read the new entries.

30 (51m 52s):
It's not like we wanted him to say bad things, but it was satisfying when we did cuz then we'd be like, All right, great. Another piece for the record. Every time, every time he said something we, it's like we pictured him like punching himself in the face.

1 (52m 4s):
It's interesting to me that it was all boys doing this. I would think that girls would've wanted to get in on it if they knew it existed.

30 (52m 10s):
Perhaps they would've. But we didn't bring it up. But I'm sure maybe some of them would. We just didn't really have any girls in our friend group.

1 (52m 18s):
All right, right. Middle school.

30 (52m 20s):
Yes, exactly.

1 (52m 26s):
The reporter who broke this story and revealed the PTO database to the world, there's Amanda Markovitz at the Boston Globe and the reason it became public, the reason she wrote a story is that in April of this year, the teacher was removed from his job and put on leave cuz of allegations that he'd stalked a girl, a preteen at the school. After that happened, there was a public appeal to families in the school for any information about other incidents involving this teacher.

30 (52m 53s):
And my mom told me about it and I told her, Oh well we have this whole log my friends and I compiled. I was, I was actually shocked. I mean it was almost like we predicted the future when I, I was like, oh my god, I could like it all paid off.

1 (53m 7s):
Did you have this feeling of like, I can't believe this is happening. I can't believe that we get to use this thing.

30 (53m 11s):
Yeah, definitely.

1 (53m 12s):
Because Did you think it was ever gonna pay off that it, that it was ever gonna be used?

30 (53m 18s):
Honestly, I didn't think so. I mean this guy was there for so long, no one could do anything about him. And for all I knew they would, like, when I brought this up to a lawyer, I thought maybe they would just all laugh at this. Like, it's like a discord chat with a bunch of people with funny like profile photos and names. Like I didn't know if that could be used as actual evidence against someone. I I was very surprised about that. Yeah,

1 (53m 47s):
We reached out to this teacher for an interview about all this, but he didn't return our calls or texts. One thing about this story, the name of the teacher has not been made public or the names the minors involved, including the boys who ran the Peto database. In fact, the voices you've been hearing for this interviewee is a young actor as you Robertson, who's imitating the real student as closely as possible To keep that kid anonymous though after a reporter, Amanda Malitz publisher story in Boston Globe. He was picked up widely, got passed around on social media and naturally the news got back to school.

30 (54m 20s):
We had seen some people reposting it on Instagram. I think I heard a couple of people talking about my, my friend told me that his like a lot of people in this math class were talking about it. This is a friend that was part of the log with me.

1 (54m 34s):
Wait, wait. And so people were talking about it at school. Do they know it's you?

30 (54m 38s):
Not the ones that were involved in the log. Cuz obviously staying anonymous to protect the integrity of the case is a big, is important.

1 (54m 47s):
And so what's that like for you? You're like Clark Kent going around, you can't tell anybody your Superman.

30 (54m 53s):
Yeah, somewhat. I mean I'm not really, I didn't do this for fame. I'm not looking for that. I mean it's cool that people know what we did, but what

1 (55m 2s):
Are you talking about? Like, like I'm picturing you like in the lunchroom and people are talking about what you guys did and then you have to keep your mouth shut and be like, you can't say like, Oh that that's me.

30 (55m 11s):
I don't overhear a lot of the background chatter, but some of my friends do and I can imagine for them it might be like, I don't know, hard to keep their mouth shut

1 (55m 19s):
And it's not hard for you to keep your mouth shut.

30 (55m 21s):
Not at all. No.

1 (55m 26s):
After the teacher got put on leave and the PTO database made the news, a young woman, an adult came forward and said that she'd also been harassed by the same teacher. Years ago she wrote a letter to the PTO database boys. She said, When we're young we're told that adults know best that they know everything. Now as an adult the only thing I know is that stupid kids just turned into even stupider adults. When I was a student in this teacher's class, I felt helpless against his harassment and bullying. None of the other adults took my feelings seriously. Not to mention the blind eye that teachers return to the creepy relationships that he had with other students. Hearing that the same thing was still happening in his class.

1 (56m 6s):
Nearly seven years after I had left, raise my feeling sad and frustrated with the school system's. Lack of action. Thank you so much for standing up for all the students who didn't have a voice. You're very brave for taking a stand against something you knew was wrong and you should be very proud of yourselves for that. Thank you.

6 (56m 23s):
The

1 (56m 24s):
Boy told me that it felt good to read that he made it feel like a bigger deal what they'd done. Years ago I was friends with a political reporter at the Ran Daily Mail, the big opposition newspaper in South Africa back during the height of a part hide. They published story after story about terrible things the white government was doing back then for decades. It had little or no effect on the government at all. The brutality and banta stands and suppressions of dissent continued. He and I talk once about what the point of publishing was in that setting. He said that even if it didn't seem to be doing much good right then and his editors felt that it was important that there was a record that someone noted what was happening and wrote it down so it later nobody could deny it happened.

1 (57m 16s):
Can I say okay. When I finished writing this story yesterday, that's where I ended the story cuz it seemed like a good way to capture what these middle school boys had done. But then today, on my way to work, I thought about the Stop the Steelers in act one of today's show. I realized how that idea, that idea that if you make a factual record of what happened, a truthful record that in the future nobody can deny it. That idea feels like it's from just another era. Things are so different today. The Stop The Steelers continue to believe a whole set of lies about the 2020 election being stolen and they are trying to remake the world based on denying what really happened.

1 (57m 58s):
And I know that is not an especially uplifting note to end the show in today, but I think in dark times it does no good to pretend that you're not living in dark times.

6 (58m 35s):
Who's Is

1 (58m 54s):
Where Bog was produced today by Aviva De Cornfeld. Joseph produced that. Two the people put together today's show include Chris Bender of Zoe Chase, Sean Cole, Michael Commentate, Cassie Hall, Stone, Nelson, Catherine, Ray, Mondo, Will Pacho, Na Raymond Ryan Rumery, Alyssa Ship, Christopher Fatal, Matt Tierny and Diane Woo. A managing editor, Sarah Aberaman, our senior editors, David Kestenbaum. Our executive editor is Emmanuel Barry. Special thanks today to Sabrina Hyman, Frank Rizzo, Steven Richard, Vanessa Barfield, Robert Fitzgerald, Sandra Doling, Cheryl Rosado, Sally Grubs, Susan Knox, the Marietta Diner, Dan Egan, Ariel Niks Robinson, Sean Carter, Marilyn Thompson, Jack Hit, Tim Conlan, Phillip Quida and Emily Abbott. Our website, this american life.org, we can stream our archive of over seven 50 episodes for absolutely free.

1 (59m 39s):
Also, there's list of favorites, videos, all kinds of other stuff There again, this American life.org, this American Life is delivered public radio stations by px, the Public Radio Exchange. Thanks is always Joe Program's co-founder, Mr. To Mal. You know, he and I went to karaoke together this week. He's sang Britney Spears, but I don't know, he just never gets the lyrics right.

20 (1h 0m 0s):
All right, come on, honey. One more time.

1 (1h 0m 3s):
America Glass. Back next week with more stories of this American life

6 (1h 0m 20s):
And Sam, nobody seems to care. Who's watching

1 (1h 0m 28s):
Next week on the podcast of this American Life. Last while Rachel got a text from her brother, Dad's dead Covid. She didn't even know he was sick. Her brother was unvaccinated. I've been caring for their dad now. He was sick. She talked him into going to a hospital. He was there for a while. Then he told her to let him go home. Only he was lying and Rachel had to excavate the truth. What she finds next week on the podcast or in your local bubble radio station,