New Hampshire Division of Travel & Tourism Development (0s):
Support for this American life comes from the New Hampshire Office of Tourism New Hampshire. Nestled in the heart of New England is famous for its white mountains, pristine lakes, quaint towns, and the live free or die motto. The motto isn't just a slogan for its license plate, but is instead a free spirit that residents and business owners embody. It's why they choose to call New Hampshire home Head to visit nh.gov/how I live free to watch the stories of inspiring locals.

1 (31s):
A quick warning, there are curse words that are un beeped in today's episode of the show. If you prefer a beeped version, you can find that at our website, this american life.org.

2 (42s):
It's this American Life. I'm Hannah Jaffy Walt sitting in for Ira Glass last fall. I saw this video from a high school in Michigan and maybe it wouldn't have stayed with me in the way that it has if it weren't for all the many things that have happened since then that keep reminding me of this video. It's turned into a sort of reference point in my head for a dynamic I keep seeing repeated. The video is from September, 2021, last fall in Michigan, about 20 miles outside Ann Arbor. It's early morning right before the school day. A group of parents and their high schoolers are kind of loosely crowded around the door to a school, a mostly white crowd.

2 (1m 21s):
There's a police officer with top gun sunglasses.

3 (1m 25s):
You're gonna go in the building, you have to have a mask.

4 (1m 28s):
And what would be the repercussions if they don't have a mask? If you

2 (1m 32s):
Don't, the officer is calmly, one might say Patronizingly repeating. If you're gonna go into the building, you have to have a mask on. Nobody in this video is wearing a mask. About 20 teenagers are standing between the officer and the door to their school looking like all teenagers do when they're waiting for anything. A little bored, a little blank. Lots of crossed arms as this goes on.

3 (1m 56s):
I'm not, I'm not gonna force anybody. I'm not putting mask on anybody. That's not my job.

4 (2m 1s):
So they can go in without the mask.

3 (2m 3s):
This is a county health department order. Okay? And a policy of the school, right? That if the anybody that's gonna go in, they gotta have a mask in.

4 (2m 15s):
There is no policy. I'm not arguing.

5 (2m 16s):
Okay, So they can go in guys, they can go in, they can go in, go on in guys go

2 (2m 22s):
In. The officer has just said, no, you can't go in. And the parents start waving the kids toward the door yelling. You can go in. Some of the teenagers look reasonably a little confused like didn't the cop just say the exact opposite? But they all turn and slowly move toward the door where the principal and superintendent are standing with masks on and the kids are just trapped there in a big clump.

5 (2m 47s):
You guys, they can't touch you. Just go ahead and go in.

2 (2m 50s):
I remember watching this and thinking, what is it like to be those high schoolers stuck in between your principal and your parent, between two authorities who are each so certain they have the moral high ground when it comes to your life,

5 (3m 4s):
They can't touch us.

2 (3m 8s):
Then a passage opens. The administrator stepped to the side and the kids rush in.

5 (3m 13s):
They cannot touch you. Be ordering. Be kind. Be kind and respectful. Be kind. Be kind and respectful. Be kind and show respect. I love you guys.

2 (3m 34s):
The kids are inside. Soon after I saw the masks video, I saw another from Texas, a mom at a school board meeting opposing critical race theory and masks was disrupting the meeting. An officer goes over to ask her to leave and then he starts going back and forth with her over her seated teenage son. He was just looking at his lap the whole time. Again, what's it like to be in the middle like that? I've since seen so many school board meetings where kids sit in the audience as parents yell about school closures or don't say gay laws or admissions policies. When school districts started banning books from their libraries, I kept wondering, do students care about that?

2 (4m 17s):
Doesn't that make the books much more appealing? Or is there a kid out there who's like, I read that book. Why that one? It's not even that interesting. This dynamic adults arguing about the kids right in front of them. It's like a play that's quietly touring the country right now. Being reenacted in different places in different forms. A play in which you never hear from the main characters. People like the kids at the school in the masks video.

6 (4m 46s):
I don't know. I was just ready for a fresh start. I was ready to be back in school. I thought that was gonna be really good.

2 (4m 51s):
This is a student, I'm gonna call John John, like every kid I talked to involved in this particular day at this particular school ask that I change his name and I have the video became very divisive. John says, What you miss? What you don't get from just hearing from the adults in that video? Is that the biggest thing happening for him? Right at that moment and many students was not masks. It was that this was the beginning of school finally a normal year after such a long pandemic.

6 (5m 22s):
I hadn't been around most of these people since my freshman year of high school. So there were a lot of things that changed. Like, I know this sounds weird, but a lot of people's voices got deeper. Just things like that. And people, people, people can drive now. People have jobs like people didn't have them my freshman year of high school

2 (5m 40s):
And people have angry parents now coming with them to school. And there's an officer outside the front door.

6 (5m 46s):
Manchester

2 (5m 47s):
Was the last, John was wearing a mouse that day. So he was allowed in the school building. He'd walked in about 10 minutes before the confrontation outside headed to AP English, sat down, John's class started and then those kids from outside were allowed into the building.

6 (6m 3s):
A couple of the ones that were in my class knocked on the door. My teacher went and opened the door and they were recording her being very hostile and confrontational, saying stuff like, You are destroying my educational rights and blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. And then my teacher basically told them, guys, I'm just, I'm just following the rules and then closed the door on them.

2 (6m 25s):
Whoa.

6 (6m 27s):
Yeah.

2 (6m 27s):
What did you make of that?

6 (6m 29s):
I was pretty distraught. And then she turned around and looked at us and was like, Guys, I, I can't do this. This is, this is ridiculous. I was pretty distraught because I, I had never seen like people treat teachers like that before.

2 (6m 44s):
And it changed the way John saw his teacher. She had such little authority in that moment and so many of the other moments that followed in the coming months, she'd ask kids to wear their mask properly. They wouldn't, She struggled visibly saying things like, I need to find a job somewhere else. John though kept trying to restore the original order of things. The way he remembered school to be the teacher in charge.

6 (7m 10s):
I just made it a point to talk with her. Not trying to be like a teacher's pet, but like trying to make it a point to like engage in her class and stuff like that. I I, I tried to treat her like she still had the same authority that she did before everything took place.

2 (7m 26s):
Even though she actually didn't.

6 (7m 27s):
Even though she actually didn't. Yeah,

7 (7m 30s):
I was in the video.

8 (7m 32s):
I was not,

2 (7m 33s):
These are two students. I'm gonna call Daniel and Maddie who only wanted to speak with me together. Who we're high school seniors who didn't wanna use their real names and who tag team every time they speak tough. Maddie was wearing a mask. She said she wore one cuz her mom wanted her two. So she was let into the school building. Daniel was not wearing a mask. He and his parents didn't agree with the mask mandate. So he was crowded in with everyone at the front door.

7 (7m 57s):
The superintendent and the principal were getting annoyed.

8 (8m 1s):
Yeah, the whole day was just kind of like weird.

7 (8m 4s):
No, it was definitely tennis.

8 (8m 6s):
Well it was just kind of distracting because like everyone did wanna just like learn.

2 (8m 11s):
I asked Daniel what happened once they were let into the building. He says they put all the kids without masks in the library and they were there for hours just as a sort of holding area I guess until they figured out what to do with them.

7 (8m 24s):
There was like probably 60 or 70 kids just crammed in the library. There was teachers telling us that we were bad kids and

8 (8m 32s):
Naughty no masks is what they called them. Yeah.

2 (8m 35s):
Naughty, no masks. The teachers did.

7 (8m 41s):
I would have they talk bad about us. It was childish.

2 (8m 45s):
So all of a sudden everybody in the building, including the adults are on one team or the other.

7 (8m 51s):
That's kinda how it felt.

8 (8m 53s):
It was very like segregated.

7 (8m 55s):
It was very divided. It had not ever been like that before and it affected the rest of the school year.

2 (9m 2s):
Everyone I spoke with agreed on this. The school year was ruined by what happened that day. Everything after that was tense. People lost trust in each other. Everyone felt less safe, less comfortable. This thing that had not been front and center for most of them became the main event. The students disagreed on which adults were to blame. Some of them blame the parents, some blame the teachers, but they all agreed that the adults were to blame. So many of the big contentious political issues right now center around kids. Should teachers be allowed to teach about racism, history, sexuality? Will stricter gun laws keep our kids safe in school?

2 (9m 42s):
Would more aggressive climate policies keep them safer in the future? Which ones? All these policy debates that we've been having for months that are so central to American politics right now affect kids more than anyone else. So today's show from WB e Chicago, we talk to kids living their kid lives in the middle of these divides. Stay with us. Act one. This is not a drill even though kids are somewhat obviously at the center of this next one.

2 (10m 23s):
I was initially drawn in by the parents I suppose because this is a particular parental experience that I spend a fair amount of time trying to imagine in trying not to imagine. So

10 (10m 34s):
This is on Thursday.

2 (10m 35s):
Dan Cos was in the middle of his workday and he got a text from his 14 year old daughter

10 (10m 40s):
Harper wrote, There's like a lockdown right now, but people don't know if it's a drill. Everyone's so confused.

2 (10m 47s):
Dan was half a mile from the school. He ran to his bike and immediately pedaled in the direction of his kid's high school.

10 (10m 54s):
So a couple of corners away. A friend of ours who also has a kid at the high school was coming out of her front door and she was like, What's going on? And I said, I, I got a text too. No time to talk. I'm going the same place as you. And you could sort of see in all the streets that lead up to the school, individual parents making their way toward the school hand cars pulling up and taking all the street parking places.

2 (11m 20s):
Oh my God.

10 (11m 21s):
So we were all sort of converging and there.

2 (11m 24s):
So it's like one by one. Every parent is like running out of their house towards the school,

10 (11m 30s):
Right? Because every parent has gotten a text from their kids saying something weird is going on and we're in lockdown.

2 (11m 35s):
This was last February in suburban Virginia. But this kind of thing happens all over. Just a few weeks ago in San Antonio, Texas,

11 (11m 44s):
I didn't start losing, excuse my language, I didn't start losing my shit until I got to the school and I actually saw officers running all over the place

2 (11m 53s):
For Audrey Cardenas. She didn't get a text from her kid. It was a post on next door, a neighborhood site shooting at Jefferson High School.

11 (12m 2s):
There's other parents crying. So I'm like, do y'all know anything? And they're like, they're not telling us nothing. They're not telling us anything. I get a text message from my son's best friend, my son's friends call me mom and he was like, Mom, I'm stuck in a closet. There's an active shooter. I don't know where Gatos is at. I honestly thought of going in through the exit room. I, I went to Jefferson High School so I know how to get in and out cause that door. I know how like, I mean I don't know if they fixed it. I graduated 20 years ago but I'm just like, I'm pretty sure that door is still not fixed. Like I'm pretty sure I could get in through there. Like

2 (12m 41s):
Had you imagined what you would do in this situation before it happened?

11 (12m 46s):
I would always talk to my kids about it and it's not funny but I always took a picture of my kids in the morning of what they're wearing just in case something like this were happening.

2 (12m 59s):
What? Really? Wow.

11 (13m 3s):
Yes. And it annoys the shit out of all three of 'em. But I'm just like, I need to know, like to identify like okay, well this is what he was wearing. Okay, this person's wearing that. This is your son, this is his body. He was shot multiple times in my mind.

2 (13m 18s):
Geez, that's something you thinking about every morning.

11 (13m 22s):
I mean an 18 year old kid went into an elementary school and shot 19 students and all 19 died every morning

2 (13m 39s):
After Uvalde and after every school shooting that happened before Uvalde and the 40 school shootings that have happened so far just this year a political debate emerged and reemerges. We have too many guns, we have too few permits, too much mental illness. The teacher should have guns. The issue is really assault weapons. No, it's background checks. It's a second amendment. And meanwhile kids keep going to school and guns keep coming to school and parents keep standing around outside grimly trying to imagine what is going on in those buildings during lockdowns.

2 (14m 20s):
That's what Dan did standing outside his kid's school.

10 (14m 23s):
I was definitely trying to imagine myself into that space. I didn't ask either of them if they were scared cuz that seemed like a dumb question. But I wanted to know what they were thinking about and how they were spending their time.

2 (14m 38s):
I wanted to know that too. What's it like for the kids who are actually at the center of this thing we seem to have decided is a permanent part of our lives now

12 (14m 48s):
I was like split between like denial and like pantsing fear and I was not in the realm of pants shitting yet.

2 (14m 54s):
Dan's oldest kid, Lara missed the loud speaker announcement about a school lockdown. So she was very breezy about what she assumed was a drill until her sister Harper texted her, No, this is not a drill, are you okay? The teacher shut off the lights in Lira's English classroom locked the door, everyone crouched on the far wall under some shelves.

12 (15m 17s):
And you know that's like sort of like when the like little pains of fear start to hit because I have both of these stories going, one of which could be the case but I hope isn't and one of which I need to believe is the case because otherwise my brain would explode. You know,

2 (15m 31s):
Lira's little Sister Harper was one floor down in health class, ninth grade Harper's classmates were clustering along the far wall, but Harper sat in her desk, twisted her body around toward the classroom door and started filming the door. The camera just watches the closed classroom door. Sometimes her hand shifts or shakes down to her shoes black Converse past the health and wellness textbooks and then back to the door just waiting.

13 (16m 0s):
Maybe I'm just in case.

2 (16m 5s):
Well it's almost like you're like staging it for there to be a shooter to come in right there.

14 (16m 11s):
I thought like if it was an actual school, school shooting, like I see all these things of students filming like you know shakily. So I thought maybe if it was happening I should probably do that.

2 (16m 25s):
A rumor started going around about a kid with a gun somewhere in the school. Harper and Lira kept waiting for a long time. No shooter, no announcement, no information.

12 (16m 38s):
So after like a mo in a great enough period of time had passed the tension sort of leaked out of the room and I just like went to my desk. You know it's hard to play Teris on your phone. So mainly I just wanted to play Teris on my computer. I didn't think I could get work done. I felt too nervous.

14 (16m 55s):
I mean people were really just talking like some people weren't even really talking about the lockdown. They were just talking about regular high school drama that Addison broke up with Owen or something, you know like wait, who was it? It was, I don't know. Some girl was like, oh no I'm gonna die of Virgin. And and and and then people heard and then they started laughing and and then her friend was like, No we're not gonna die. It's okay. And I remember, I don't know if this is important, but there was a couple and it was a junior boy and a sophomore girl and the whole time they were just like in the corner like being all cuddly and stuff and they were like cuddling up to each other there.

14 (17m 50s):
The girl was like, Oh I'm so scared. Like what do I do? And then the guy was like, It's okay, it's okay.

2 (17m 56s):
And what did you think of that?

14 (17m 58s):
I thought it was funny. You guys, you guys are weird.

10 (18m 4s):
Liar. Texted her wordle result, she got the wordle in three.

2 (18m 9s):
Dan, their dad was still outside with all the other parents waiting.

10 (18m 14s):
And then Harper texted that she got the Wordle in four and I told them I also got the Wordle in three. I shared with the parents outside the school that my kids got the Wordle in three or four and they said good work. And I shared that with my kids. Then Lira sent us some tweets from kids who were inside the school. Someone cancel school or else I'm a piss all over the cafeteria floors. Then I sent them some photos of what the outside of the school looked like so they could get a sense of how many police cars were there. And Lira wrote and my bike was in the photo and she made fun of me for biking to the school.

2 (18m 54s):
Dan says the weirdest part of this portion of the day was running the two stories in his head, same as lira, one story. This is nothing. We're just waiting. The kids will be out soon. And the other story, we're gonna look back on this moment when we thought it was nothing. The one right before all the tragedy, but the longer this went on, the first story, this is nothing had a stronger pull.

10 (19m 20s):
So like the parents are now, some of them have gone home, some of them are still there and texting their kids. There's one guy who's illegally parked in front of a driveway with his windows open, just doing the longest loudest work call on his phone on speakerphone. So we're just all listening to his work call about like brokerage fees or something.

2 (19m 41s):
Wait, he's doing the work call to be close to the school

10 (19m 45s):
To be, he wanted to be close to the school. So he just sat there waiting for something to happen. But also doing this work call on speakerphone.

2 (19m 52s):
I cannot think of a more perfect illustration of what it is like to pretend things are normal in America right now. A more 2022 image than a work from home finance guy taking a zoom call from his car outside what may or may not be a school shooting in his kid's high school. The incredible peaks of disassociation. The alienation required to proceed with our daily routines while still allowing for the possibility of story number two of tragedy at any moment. And then something happened

14 (20m 29s):
Over the loudspeaker. It was a man who no one knew wasn't our principal, it wasn't his voice, it was just a random guy. And it said today is Thursday, February 10th, 2022. And that's it. It was like a deep man voice being serious. And then everyone was like, Like what? Like why? Why would they announce that? And then my teacher said, Well that can't be

9 (20m 58s):
Good

2 (21m 3s):
Upstairs. Larry heard the announcement too. And for her, this is when she snapped into story number two. She could feel the other kids in the room do the same thing. Tensing up, getting ready for something to do something. Cause

12 (21m 18s):
I feel like every kid at some point every high schooler thinks about, well what would I do if I was in a, in a mass shooting? And you know, I feel like it's like everyone's instinct to be like, oh, I'd be brave. I would be kind, I would know what to say to keep people calm. I would know how to escape. I would fight off the shooter, but like I just sort of resign myself. Like if a shooter comes, I probably run away or die. Had

2 (21m 41s):
You had that thought before?

12 (21m 43s):
Oh yeah. I think all high school. Just think about it. Especially America. Do

2 (21m 47s):
You think that's true?

15 (21m 48s):
All

2 (21m 48s):
High schoolers have had that thought. Who, who am I gonna be in a school shooting if there's a school

12 (21m 52s):
Shooting? Yes, I would definitely say every single American high schooler has thought about that.

2 (21m 56s):
Really? I do not have contact with every single American high schooler, nor does Lira. But once she said this, I was curious. I started asking around and every kid I talked to, kids in Texas, New Mexico, Missouri, Minnesota, Michigan.

15 (22m 13s):
Yeah, I've put, I've put some thought into it.

2 (22m 17s):
Nick is in East Lansing. He's a senior this year, which means he's had more than a decade to watch videos from school shootings including videos from last year in Oxford, Michigan, which is just a little over an hour away from him. And where he heard a student ran at the shooter. Nick says he's imagined being that guy in his school shooting or he'd help other kids escape.

15 (22m 41s):
And I know a lot of my friends also know, we know the different ways to get in and out of the building. This past year I had ceramics, which was on the outside. So that had a door.

2 (22m 52s):
Nick was the first of many kids I talked to with an alarming command of the various means of egress in their school buildings. It was that way with Michael too. Outside Detroit

16 (23m 3s):
We have this weird little corridor and next to the band room is an exit door, but you cannot enter through it.

2 (23m 10s):
Michael told me above the exit door is a drop down ceiling with a missing tile. You could get up there, he heard a couple years ago the seniors stuck a Christmas tree up there. So he's pretty sure there's space. You could stack the cubbies, get up to the ceiling,

16 (23m 27s):
Push one of my tiles off, and then get on top of the jot down ceiling and escape that way. If you needed to.

2 (23m 35s):
And you had thought about this,

16 (23m 37s):
I I, I thought about it as a possibility, I kind of left it in the back of my mind and I'm like, all right, if we have to to this is what we do.

2 (23m 47s):
And then last winter a student threatened to kill his classmates during sixth period. Nobody knew if he really meant it. So Michael's school went into lockdown and he ended up in the drum line room exactly where he planned to be. Their band teacher told them to close the door and stay in there. Stay in there for around. So Michael and about 10 other kids sat on the floor. It was completely dark, soundproof. Everyone was whispering. Michael had thought about this moment so much and now here it was.

16 (24m 17s):
I told everybody the plant was in the first five minutes. It was like, if we need to, there's a dropdown ceiling. There's a tile open in the escape. I call it the escape room now because that's when I think of it as. But the storage room, one of the tiles is broken. You can jump through there.

2 (24m 34s):
What was the reaction? What did people say?

16 (24m 38s):
The first thing that somebody said was, That's a dumb idea.

2 (24m 41s):
That is not how Michael imagined this moment going the best way. My goal turns out was not the only one with a plan. He was in a room full of kids who had all prepared for this moment a room full of band kids who knew each other very well. Michael says everyone was exactly themselves. Alex made jokes. Connor reminded everyone to be calm and reasonable. Lucy agreed with Connor and said We should hear every side. And the naysayer who I will not name, who thought everyone's idea was dumb but offered none of his own ideas, Nobody was surprised. They kept going. It was constant. We should make a wall of cubbies.

2 (25m 22s):
No, no, no. We should hide inside the drums. This went on for

16 (25m 26s):
Around an hour and 15 minutes.

2 (25m 29s):
Wow, an hour and 15 minutes. How much is there to say

16 (25m 34s):
Depending on what point of view you had? We went through everybody's so

2 (25m 38s):
Like each person got a chance to talk.

16 (25m 40s):
Yeah, it was, you have five minutes to talk and then you'll have two minutes to respond. Jump to the next person.

2 (25m 50s):
Somebody was actually like running time.

16 (25m 52s):
Yeah,

2 (25m 53s):
Who was running the clock?

16 (25m 55s):
Connor?

2 (25m 56s):
Of course when things got a little tense in this impromptu lord of the flies school shootings planning committee, Alex started playing pumped up kicks at the lowest volume possible.

16 (26m 9s):
I'm like, Dude, stop it. It it gets really, really dark. All the other kids with the pumped up kicks better run better run faster than my

9 (26m 23s):
Other

16 (26m 30s):
Dude. Decided to play pumped up kicks. He is the clown of the classroom. He is known for being the class clown. The fact that he did that just kind of shook big.

2 (26m 39s):
Did you find it funny?

16 (26m 41s):
I found it hilarious. I'm like, but this is kind of serious for now.

2 (26m 45s):
Michael told me Alex had played pumped up kicks at other lockdowns too. It's kind of his lockdown thing, but usually he waits till the end. He says, that's how you know it's over. You hear that song playing as the police escort you at the building. All, Most kids will not experience actual school shootings. But every year millions of kids will experience something like this school lockdowns that are not a drill, that are a sudden urgent response to a real or perceived threat.

2 (27m 26s):
Lockdowns that can go on for hours where teachers lock the doors, police are swarming and helicopters bring in blood just in case kids react. Some kids cry, some kids make out. A fourth grader named Jude told me he filled his backpack with books and held it to his chest. So many of the things I heard about kids doing were somehow generic and deeply individual. A 12 year old in Birmingham wrote a will that said quote Mom, I wanna give my friend Javon everything I own. And that includes the Xbox and games and controllers. I heard about a kid in upstate New York who called his parents from the bathroom during a lockdown and came out to them.

2 (28m 11s):
He didn't want them to learn he was gay later in the news if he died. But the unifying foundation across all these experiences was the feeling of flip flopping between two different stories. Maybe it's nothing but maybe it's not. And how quickly the certainty that you are in the probably nothing story can crumble with one noise with a text for Harper and Lira and Virginia. It was that announcement an hour into their lockdown deep man voice on the loud speaker saying today is February 10th, 2022.

14 (28m 50s):
And I remember we all just went crazy over that. Like, what does that mean? Who, What the hell was that? Who? Who the hell was that? Did anyone recognize that voice? No, I didn't recognize that voice. So I thought that it was like, is that, are they announcing that cuz that's the day we're gonna die. Because I thought like when they said the date, it was gonna be like, today is Thursday, February 10th and one student has died. I thought they were gonna finish it like that, like make a whole big thing. But they just said the date. So I was like, what they,

2 (29m 17s):
You thought they were gonna announce like deaths on the allows

14 (29m 19s):
Figure? I thought they were gonna announce like some something has actually happened because at that point nothing had happened. So maybe like, oh they would announce something. We, we had a school shooter, we had a bomb. We fixed it. Now you can go. We you're

2 (29m 36s):
Like, what's the rest of that sentence? Yeah,

14 (29m 38s):
What's the rest like what happened today?

2 (29m 41s):
Which story are we in and how does this story end? Harper and Lira stayed in lockdown for around three hours. The normal end of school, 3:00 PM came and went. Lira's rehearsal for Annie never started. Eventually police came into the classroom with guns, helmets, and tactical gear told everyone to put their hands up and they walked in a line out of the building. Later parents suspected that the loudspeaker announcement was actually the police. A caller had said he was in the school bathroom with two hostages and a gun. The police thought the shooter was out of state and parents heard that that announcement was a test to see if he was in the building.

2 (30m 23s):
Would police hear the PA system announcement if they got the shooter on the phone? They didn't. There were no hostages. There was no shooter not for Lira and Harper School, not for the lockdown in San Antonio where Audrey, the mom had her son's picture ready to show to the police. There was just the much more commonplace experience of a school lockdown that had a supposedly happy ending. There are the established, respected rituals of an American high school experience, Prom, graduation, homecoming, all those times where people come together and share some sort of collective experience.

2 (31m 9s):
A school lockdown is like that. Another kind of school ritual like prom. It comes with its own traditions and expectations. You've imagined what it'll be like ahead of time, who you might be. And later you'll look back and say, Remember when that thing happened? You'll look back and say, of course that person did that. A high schooler named Jada in New Jersey told me that years ago, back in first grade they all hid in the closet for a lockdown and one kid fell asleep. People laughed about that for years. Bad mix. Another time her freshman year, she wound up hiding in the closet again. That was her longest lockdown.

2 (31m 49s):
And a student kept asking to go to the bathroom. The teacher, the teacher kept saying no.

8 (31m 54s):
I remember him peeing in a water bottle. Actually the teacher was, yes, he was peeing in the water bottle.

2 (31m 60s):
Wow. In front of all of you.

8 (32m 2s):
She made him go behind a bookshelf and we had to like move to the front of the closet so we wouldn't see him.

2 (32m 8s):
So embarrassing for that kid.

8 (32m 10s):
I think it was embarrassing for all of us because we were just like, we were just like, oh this is kind of awkward. Like he's just there peeing and we could kind of hear him like it was just not, not a good moment.

2 (32m 22s):
It was a not good moment that later after the lockdown, not a single person mentioned again. He never became the kid who peed in the lockdown. Jada says with that one, everyone just had a sort of what happens in the lockdown stays in the lockdown attitude about the whole thing. She just thinks they all knew it could have been them coming up a middle schooler and a new law grow side by side.

2 (33m 3s):
What happens when they finally meet? That's in a minute. From Chicago Public Radio. When our program continues

The Bid - BlackRock (33m 12s):
Support for this American life comes from BlackRock. Are you looking for the best way to stay updated on the biggest market trends on the bid? A podcast from BlackRock. We break down what's happening in the world of investing and explore the forces changing the economy and finance from geopolitics and inflation to sustainability and technology. BlackRock speaks to thought leaders and industry experts from around the globe about the biggest trends moving markets. Subscribe to the bid wherever you get your podcasts.

Hard Fork (33m 38s):
I'm Kevin Rus. And I'm Casey Newton. We're the hosts of Hard Fork, a show from the New York Times. Casey, you and I have covered the tech industry for like the last decade and it really feels like Silicon Valley is shifting now toward these new ideas like crypto and the metaverse and ai. It feels like a real turning point. We're gonna talk about these stories. We're gonna bring in other journalists, news makers, whoever else is involved in building this future. To explain to us what's changing and why it all matters. Listen to hard Fork wherever you get your podcasts.

2 (34m 9s):
It's this American life. I'm ka Jaffy Walt sitting in for Ira Glass. Today's show kids are at the center of so many political debates these days. Like the debate that follows every school shooting about guns and kind of hovers above the lives of actual kids circling but never touching down, never really making much of an impact in our next story. Another adult debate that is super heated right now lands directly in the life of one kid. Our producer, at least Spiegel, has been spending time with a kid named Finn in Alabama. Alabama recently passed two laws that focus on the lives of trans kids. It's one of many states to do so.

2 (34m 50s):
There's been a massive increase in these kinds of bills across the country. Republican state legislators have proposed 69 new bills to restrict gender affirming treatment. 14 new bathroom bills, 50 school restrictions, so called don't say gay bills and 130 sports bands. Meanwhile, Finn has been growing up and what's so special about this next story is that you can see how these bills develop alongside his life as he goes from eighth grade to high school. And what happens when they enter the picture? Act two Finn raises his hand. Here's Elise.

20 (35m 28s):
A year before the laws found their way into Finn's life. He was in eighth grade and like most eighth graders, he wasn't carefully tracking bills in the Alabama state legislature. His attention was on other things. There were funny YouTube videos to watch and unfortunate amounts of math homework to do and the problem of which color to dye his hair green or purple or blue. Finn's one of those kids who likes to learn without liking school. So he is taught himself all kinds of things to draw and paint to play guitar. He even fished his father's abandoned electric piano out of the corner of the music room and somehow taught himself to play.

14 (36m 8s):
Wait, wait, Okay.

20 (36m 18s):
Finn lives in Grove Hill, Alabama a small town roughly two hours southwest of Montgomery. In his small house. There are many heartbeats. There's his mother Jody and his father Josh, his two sisters, Allison and Lela, and a Noah's arc of animals.

14 (36m 33s):
So we have Simon, Kevin, their brothers, and Reggie. That's three cats. We have Lobo, which is our dog. The bunny. Allison has two lizards. Speed.

20 (36m 45s):
There's a duck in the backyard that gives off intense anger vibes and a whole bunch of chickens fin decided to raise cuz fin loves animals.

14 (36m 53s):
This is just a chicken coop. That's the duck coop.

20 (36m 56s):
Oh my gosh. And then you have a one-eyed cat.

14 (36m 58s):
Yep, that's Reggie.

20 (37m 0s):
Hi Reggie. When Finn was little he says he liked Grove Hill a lot. It felt green and free, but as he got older, things got more complicated. Grove Hill is a conservative Christian community, a church three times a week kind of place as his mom likes to say. So Finn felt extremely anxious when he first decided to come out as trans in eighth grade. This was in the spring of 2021 after he and his classmates returned from Covid to in-person learning.

14 (37m 28s):
I didn't wanna have to tell it and I know people can't read bind, but I didn't wanna explain it. I just wanted them to be like, Yeah, cool. That's who you are. This is who your name. Go with it. Cause it was still very awkward back then.

20 (37m 45s):
Awkward for a million reasons because the people in eighth grade had known him as a girl for as long as they had known him because it's always hard to tell people that you see every day something that you're not sure they wanna hear. And then of course Finn was 14 and pretty much every conversation you have when you're 14 is awkward. But Finn, this naturally shy kid whose main social goal is to stay under the radar, forced himself on the very first day of in-person learning, he says he lingered by his teacher's desk after class

14 (38m 16s):
Hung back and I was just like, Hey, I think I said my name's Finn now, and I use he Kim pronouns. And she was just like, Oh. It didn't seem like she was like disgusted or didn't seem like she wanted to do that. She, she just seemed more shocked. I don't think she's ever like encountered anyone

20 (38m 41s):
At this point. Again, this is the spring of Finn's eighth grade year. Trans kids were not yet constantly in the headlines. And Finn says most of his teachers were open and sweet with him,

14 (38m 51s):
Very accepting and don't know if,

20 (38m 56s):
And did your, So were your teachers good about using the right pronouns and everything?

14 (39m 1s):
For the most part, I, I mean it takes anyone a couple minutes.

20 (39m 7s):
Pronouns are not a small thing for Finn. When people refer to him with a wrong pronoun, he says it's so distressing. He often feels physically ill. It's a response that's not uncommon.

14 (39m 18s):
Sometimes it's like pain in my gut. Sometimes I actually feel like I'm going to puke. Sometimes I'll just have to walk away and naturally make sure I don't.

20 (39m 30s):
But queasiness wasn't much of a problem in middle school. Finn remembers telling his friends for the first time that he wanted to go by. He,

14 (39m 39s):
I think they like threatened. If anyone messed up, they'd punch them. I don't specifically remember though, but I think that was one of their reactions. It made me laugh

20 (39m 51s):
And that's the way it went. For the rest of the year. The teachers were open, the kids were on board. And in May Finn graduated from middle school feeling good, comfortable. Finn's parents, Josh and Jody were incredibly relieved. They've lived in Grove Hill for most of their lives and so have a nuanced view of the community. All the contradictions that Grove Hill, Alabama contains, Jody told me that though many of their friends seemed completely indifferent to whether Finn was trans or not and loved him no matter what, maybe even more people in the community find the experience of her child. Difficult to understand and even his existence unsettling.

20 (40m 31s):
Which brings me to high school. This is Finn's mom. Jody,

21 (40m 36s):
Two days before school actually started, he said, What am I supposed to do if I have to go to the bathroom at school? And I, I guess it was naive because it still didn't click. And I was like, Well what do you need? Like you have to go to the bathroom, Go to the bathroom, you know, which is so stupid now. Had he said no, which 1:00 AM I supposed to use? I don't wanna go to the girls room.

20 (41m 6s):
Now there were no laws dictating where Finn could go to the bathroom. Not yet. Anyway. So when Jody talked with a school principal about what Finn should do, the principal quickly came up with a solution. Finn could use the single stall bathroom in the teacher's lounge. This suited him fine. And Finn says, at the beginning of school, he was feeling relatively optimistic.

14 (41m 29s):
I wasn't as worried with my names or pronouns more than I was finding my locker and finding the classes.

20 (41m 38s):
But almost immediately Finn encountered pushback. It started in geometry class

14 (41m 43s):
Teacher was calling Ro and I try going up to them while they're doing it so they won't call out my dead name. But she told me to sit down and she's called on my name. And when she walked up to me, I corrected her. I tell her that that's not my name and I use a different name and pronouns. And she was like, No, I'm not gonna do that. I'm gonna go off of what's on the paper.

20 (42m 15s):
And what did you say?

14 (42m 18s):
Nothing.

20 (42m 20s):
And it wasn't just the geometry teacher, there was pushback from Finn's English teacher, his science teacher, even his history and hobbies teacher.

14 (42m 28s):
She pulled me aside and she told me that she respects kids and she loves kids and all that. That's why she became a teacher and whatever. She'll do the name but she won't do the pronouns because that's not what I believe in. I'm not gonna do that. I'll just not call on you.

20 (42m 58s):
It's impossible to know the exact why behind this resistance. I reached out to Finn teachers, the school principal, the superintendent's office, all either declined to talk to me or didn't respond. But it's clear that the national conversation was changing and growing. There were more and more bills directed at trans kids regulating how they played sports, where they went to the bathroom, what kind of medical care they could get access to sometimes forbidding. Any discussion of trans issues in school at all. Did that influence this response? Was it simply teacher luck of the draw? Often knew was that very, very unfortunately the feelings of the teachers seemed to be spreading.

14 (43m 43s):
Like talking to me saying the wrong pronouns, It affected how other people saw, saw me, but slowly in a way, What

20 (43m 54s):
Do you mean slowly? In a

14 (43m 56s):
Way it was more gradually obvious that people thought I was a girl.

20 (44m 3s):
It was around December of his freshman year that Finn began to think more seriously about medical transition. Finding a doctor who could provide hormone blockers and eventually testosterone Finn thought it might help people to see him the right way.

14 (44m 18s):
I'm very what sort insecure about like how high my voice can go. So with like, if I was able to access that stuff, I and probably helped a lot.

20 (44m 38s):
When Vin talked to Jody about getting treatment, hormone blockers and testosterone, she told him, she was open to the idea but needed to make sure it was safe first she said she'd research it. So if fin plow plowed forward, played in band, suffered through geometry and also became increasingly distressed, worried that his teachers would continue to misgender him, that the kids at school would continue to question whether he was truly a boy. That it would all just keep on getting worse. And then one day in geometry then hit a breaking point.

14 (45m 13s):
She either dead named me or misgendered me one or the other in front of the class. And then she passed out a test paper and all my papers I usually write Finn, he him just like a little reminder note. And I did that after writing that I wrote, it was either please stop dead naming me or misgendering me, or I will kill myself. I remember writing it and then erasing it and then writing it back.

14 (45m 57s):
I was scared what was gonna happen. Saying that like if they would tell my mom or I would, I was scared. My mom would believe it. So I, I erased it. But then I was like, I don't care. This teacher needs to stop. So I wrote it back, I did my test and I turned it in.

20 (46m 31s):
Ben says he wasn't really gonna commit suicide if the teacher didn't use the right pronouns. He just couldn't think of another way to communicate his distress. The problem of suicide is incredibly serious among trans kids. A recent study showed that in 2020, roughly one in two trans youth seriously consider suicide. Though when parents in schools are accepting the rate of actual suicide attempts falls dramatically. Finn's mom, Jodi did talk to the teacher about this note and she says that she walked away from the conversation feeling at least a little bit better. She told me she could see the teacher cared for Finn, but felt like using his right name and pronouns was against her religion.

21 (47m 15s):
She wasn't at all abrasive with me. She didn't tense when I brought anything up. She actually, she cried when I started explaining some things like, okay, well this is what you did, but this is how it's made him feel. And she was just like, Oh my goodness, I'm so sorry I never, you know, that wasn't my intention.

20 (47m 40s):
So that was fin before the bills passed, fragile struggling to settle into high school and get through his day and then the lawmakers in Montgomery stepped into Finn's life.

22 (47m 51s):
Well we listen, we, we wanna make sure that we protect these kids. There's, there's a lot of reasons, a lot of things we do in the state to make sure that they can't have alcohol, can't have tobacco, can't have vaping.

20 (48m 1s):
This is Alabama state representative Wes Allen, one of the Republicans who sponsored the bills talking to reporters in the press room of the state capital on April 7th of this year. Immediately after the bill passed, the first bill HB 3 22 was a bathroom bill. And for Finn, would we need to have to use the girl's restroom? Not his single stall in the teacher's lounge. The second bill, SB 180 4 made it a felony to provide any minor in the state with gender affirming medical care, meaning Finn wouldn't have access to the hormones that could help him with his voice

22 (48m 38s):
Protecting

20 (48m 39s):
These minors. As representative Alan explains, he and his colleagues believe that teenagers are too young for this kind of treatment.

22 (48m 46s):
You know, their minds are not fully developed to make these decisions on these medications and surgeries. And that's what the bill is about. To protect minors. Well we listen, we, we wanna make sure

20 (48m 58s):
We to be clear. The American Medical Association, the American Association of Pediatrics, the American College of Physicians, a whole bunch of groups all say kids should have access to gender affirming medical care and oppose legislation like this. I went to visit Finn and Jodi in May shortly after the bills passed, but before Jodi had had a chance to sit down and tell Finn about them, she told me she held off when she first heard because the fate of the medical bill was immediately thrown into question by a court challenge and she didn't wanna disturb Finn unless it turned out to be absolutely necessary.

20 (49m 40s):
But then the first night I was there, Finn, Jodi and I were sitting around talking and the subject of the legislation came up and suddenly we found ourselves inside the conversation that Jodi had been delaying the conversation where she explained to Finn that a bathroom bill had passed and would become official law over the summer break. So when Finn started 10th grade in the fall, he might be forced to use the girl's bathroom.

21 (50m 6s):
The bathroom bill. You know, that's supposed to go into effect on July 1st of this year, which means if nothing happens and there's not anything to come up and stop it at the start of the school year, that's an effect. What do you mean? Okay.

20 (50m 28s):
As soon as Finn heard about the bathroom bill his face, strained of color, the bathroom, and you could see tears in his eyes.

21 (50m 35s):
It's okay to be upset. We are upset with you.

20 (50m 41s):
Jody told Finn she knew this was not the news that he wanted to hear. I told you I called, but she felt like he needed to understand now that there could be a different arrangement in the fall. She said she had talked to the school principal who in the past had been incredibly helpful and kind to Jody and Finn

21 (50m 59s):
Even. He was like, Look, we don't know what's gonna happen. We don't know. We're all gonna try to hold out, hope that things go the way we want them to. And if things don't go the way that you deserve them to go as a human being, we'll go from there and regroup.

20 (51m 20s):
Jody started talking through some of the regrouping options, but Vin just sat silent saying nothing. Then one of the many animals who live in the house appeared in the doorway. You're not, It was Finn's personal cat. Simon.

21 (51m 34s):
Well, Simon immediately knows you're outside because he's racing right up here. What a baby. We'll get it all figured out. All is not lost. I can always bring my Bible up there and whack 'em with it if I need to. You. Okay?

9 (51m 57s):
Okay.

20 (52m 8s):
A couple of weeks after this conversation, school led out and I didn't see or talk to Finn and Jody until August. Right before the start of the school year, Jody told me that Finn had had a good summer. He's in his first long-term relationship with a 16 year old who lives one town over. They spent a lot of time together. They watched YouTube, went roller skating, and of course spent countless hours playfully insulting each other in that way that teenagers always do. Also, over the summer, the bathroom bill that so distressed fin quietly became law. Jodi told me that a couple days before my visit, she'd reached out to the school principal to see if they'd keep fin's accommodation and was eventually told that Finn would have access to the bathroom, but only Finn and only as long as no other kid in school came out or complained in any way.

20 (53m 1s):
For whatever reason, Finn had been grandfathered in, but the door was closed behind him. Jody said Finn was deeply discouraged by the arrangement and that after he'd found out, he'd taken a nose dive in terms of mood, he was sure the bathroom would be taken away and that people would be even worse about using the right pronouns. Jody said he started talking almost relentlessly about dropping out. It wasn't just the law, she said, but after the difficulty of the previous year, this extra piece of weight felt to him like it quote sealed his fate. It's true that the fin I found when I returned to Grove Hill felt like a different kid.

20 (53m 42s):
He seemed much smaller than before, emotionally, even physically, and you could tell from the way that he was talking that he was in that kind of pain. That bubbles out into the open even when you don't want it to. For example, towards the start of our conversation, I asked what I thought would be a fun warmup question. I'd been privately wondering how would I begin this story? What was the right way to introduce this kid to people like you? So I asked Finn to decide for himself.

23 (54m 12s):
Okay. If you could choose,

20 (54m 17s):
How would the story of you start?

14 (54m 24s):
I don't know. Just a kid trying to be happy. Mm. Do you, Why do you look like you're about

20 (54m 32s):
To cry?

24 (54m 35s):
Because you're about to cry.

14 (54m 42s):
You're saying, that makes me want to,

24 (54m 47s):
Is it about going back to school?

14 (54m 52s):
I mean, I don't want to,

24 (54m 56s):
I don't like school.

20 (55m 4s):
We talked about the bathroom work around hypercar. It was,

14 (55m 8s):
I was glad that they still kept the bathroom for me, but I also think it's stupid that if anyone else wants to feel comfortable at school in a bathroom sense, like they can't

20 (55m 23s):
Fin solution if the bathroom got taken away is what a lot of people do in this situation.

14 (55m 30s):
Bathroom's taken away from me. I'll just, just not use the bathroom

23 (55m 36s):
At school all day.

14 (55m 38s):
Yeah, just avoid drinks, I guess breakfast cuz I really don't use the bathroom at much, much. Anyways. At school

20 (55m 56s):
In the weeks before this story was scheduled to air, I called around to some of the lawyers and caregivers in Alabama who monitored trans kids to find out what they were seeing and the reports I got back were pretty grim. One lawyer told me that she was getting reports that even the kids who always loved school were suddenly resistant to going and there were serious concerns that there would be increased incidents of self-harm in a way, despite how difficult this has been for. For him. Finn is kind of a best case scenario. He has parents who unconditionally support him.

25 (56m 32s):
Hello?

20 (56m 33s):
Hi Finn. How are you doing? It's been so long. How are you?

25 (56m 38s):
Yeah, it's been a minute. Yeah.

20 (56m 41s):
A few days ago I spoke with Finn for the first time since I visited in August and found out that he was doing surprisingly well. How are the teachers treating you so far this year?

25 (56m 52s):
The teachers are good, like no problem with 'em,

20 (56m 56s):
Finn's at all. His teachers were being respectful about pronouns and name stuff this year and though there had been a couple of incidents including a pretty serious fist fight he was holding on for sure. No one had come forward, complain about the bathroom and no other kids had come out. So Finn found himself preoccupied with less exist existential problems,

25 (57m 16s):
Grades, trying to get ungrounded, fully, hanging out with friends, trying not to mess something. Speaking grades. I got all A's. You

20 (57m 30s):
Got all A's on your report card.

25 (57m 33s):
Yeah.

20 (57m 34s):
Congratulations.

25 (57m 36s):
Thank you. It was all like low a's though I think two of them were 90 twos.

20 (57m 43s):
Finn told me he doesn't think about the laws every day, but when he does they make him mad.

25 (57m 48s):
I guess just cuz I'm a kid, I don't, I don't get why people decide to do certain laws that have nothing to do with them. I think it's stupid. In a way,

20 (58m 13s):
Finn and his family are doing what they can to adapt and they did have a small victory recently because of a different law. One that's been on the books forever. It lets anyone change their name to whatever they want. Finn and Jodi got the paperwork done over the summer and a few weeks ago a new social security card arrived in the mail in the eyes of the law. Finn is now Finn's official name. No teacher or legislator can say anything different still. The laws passed earlier this year. Hover in the air as Finn goes about his day from his perspective, they don't protect him, they just create obstacles.

20 (58m 55s):
They've made the job of being Finn more difficult.

2 (59m 9s):
Elise Beagle is one of the producers of our show. One more thing before we close this serial bar down. I saw an article recently as I was working on this episode from NBC News, and it weirdly connects the two stories in today's show in a way I did not see coming. It's an investigation into a popular conspiracy theory. Maybe you've heard it. It is that schools all across the country are offering litter boxes to kids who identify as cats. If you hadn't heard this one, sorry. This is all over social media.

2 (59m 49s):
The story is kids are telling their schools, their cats and schools are accommodating them by providing litter boxes. At least 20 Republican politicians have repeated that this is happening, that this is a growing crisis, that schools are just allowing kids to identify as whatever they want. This gender identity stuff has gone too far and there are kids who are only communicating in barks and hisses and it's gotten so extreme that school children are now using litter boxes. So that's the rumor. NBC News looked into this. They investigated each one of these claims and tried to find schools where this is actually happening. They reached out to every school rumored to have a litter box over 20 places and they found one, a whole school district in Colorado.

2 (1h 0m 36s):
They had kitty litter, but they were not keeping it because kids were identifying as animals. No kids were identifying as animals. The district, Jefferson County school district is home to Columbine. High school schools in the Jefferson District have cat litter in case they have to go into lockdown during a school shooting. The litter is part of their overall plan. If there is an active shooter situation, they have litter and buckets, so kids have somewhere to pee somewhere that's not in a bottle in a closet. They've kept cat litter on hand for years along with candy for diabetic students. A map of the school flashlights, wet wipes and first eight items.

2 (1h 1m 20s):
The litter boxes are about school shootings. I, I don't know, I just keep thinking about the hours we've spent talking about kitty litter and the money that went into making this non-issue a series of talking points on top of other non-issues. That also became talking points about where kids pee in school. When in America we don't have a problem of kids saying they're cats and being provided with litter boxes. What we have are adults who have accepted that school shootings will continue to happen and they're preparing what we have, which Kids will tell you is an actual problem, actual threats, actual fear, actual trauma, actual deaths.