Yogi Tea (0s):
Our wellbeing evolves with us as we grow and change what supports our wellbeing may change as well. Wellbeing is a unique and individual expression, not a static solitary practice. It's as vibrant and fluid as we are. Wellbeing is about what will fulfill your body and soul right now in this moment. So find your own version of wellbeing and gift it to yourself along with a tea that's just as unique. Yogi Tea. Find your flavor of wellbeing@yogiproducts.com.

1 (33s):
Alan is not the real Santa Claus, a guy in the North Pole, obviously. I say the standing little kids who might be listening to me right now. That guy in the North Pole is amazing. Alan is not that guy. Alan's just a guy who dresses up as Santa sometimes. Alan doesn't have Santa's flying reindeer. Alan doesn't have regions of elves backing him up. And most of all, Alan doesn't have his years of experience. This

2 (58s):
Is my first year as Santa, my first, oh, I'm going the wrong

1 (1m 3s):
Way. He's driving to his very first chair gig.

2 (1m 6s):
Okay. I'm, I'm so nervous. I, I, I'm, I'm nervous. I'm really, really nervous.

1 (1m 16s):
A chair gig. You're, sit in a chair, talk to kids about what they want for Christmas, one of our producers that Feld rode with him to this job. This was in Redlands, California, an hour or so east of Los Angeles. Alan is an earnest guy with a kind face who, and he would tell you this himself, tends to overthink things a little. Really. He told Aviva, he's natural what to expect at this gig. Like what could go wrong? So he is just been trying to prepare for everything by making some lists, checking them twice.

2 (1m 47s):
Last night I made checklists on my phone for all the things that I would need and all the things that I would potentially need. I have a backup for almost everything that I wear. How

0 (1m 59s):
Come?

2 (2m 0s):
Well, in, in case a baby spits up, I need another shirt. If, if the coat gets dirty, I need another coat and you know, I have to have extra gloves. And I've been kind of manic about trying to anticipate all the catastrophes that could happen one way or another and prepare for them.

1 (2m 23s):
He's also worried about his beard. He's 53, so his natural beard is still mostly brown.

2 (2m 29s):
So I started bleaching my beard in June and my beard started getting smaller. The bleach was damaging it.

0 (2m 39s):
So it's breaking off.

2 (2m 40s):
Yeah,

1 (2m 42s):
He's tried some expensive hair products to stop the damage, but it's still a little shorter than he wants. And maybe his greatest anxiety going into this gig was the questions that the kids might ask him. Would he say the right thing?

2 (2m 55s):
There might be, you know, a child with a real problem like, you know, their, their mom is gone or somebody's incarcerated or something like that. And I can't, I can't bring anyone back that they've lost. And I really worry about being asked about that. I can't bring someone home who's on a deployment somewhere.

1 (3m 21s):
He frats and drives on his way to the gig. Two full Santa costumes in the bag. If a Christmas comes around every year, always the same, but the same songs and the same stage props, and the same specials on tv. You can get numb to it. It's so easy to lose the magical feeling that so many people had as kids around the holiday. But one thing you can say about Alan, he is not feeling numb. Just the opposite. He's on high alert, not just cuz you know, he wants to be a perfect Santa for these little kids. Mainly he's that way because it is his first time in the chair. And there are all kinds of reasons that that is a big deal for him that we're gonna get into in a minute or two.

1 (4m 3s):
But my pride now is when you're trying something for the first time, you can just, I don't taste all the potential and excitement of what it could be. You feel feelings. Which is why this Christmas here at our show, we thought it would be nice to spend an hour with people who are not doing what they've ever done in the past. At Christmas, we're not doing the same old, same old, we're gonna spend the hour with people who are trying something brand new at Christmas cuz they have a shot at some deep Christmasy feeling. W B Z Chicago, this is American Life. I'm our glass. Stay with us. Act one.

1 (4m 43s):
Does Santa believe in himself? Okay, so Alan, or maybe I should say Santa Allen, he's on his way to his first chair gig. As we said, producer Viva to Kornfeld went with him to see how he would do on that gig. But to understand why he is so nervous and what he hoped to get out of the gig, you kinda have to understand what the job means to him in the first place. And so that is where Aviva is gonna start.

4 (5m 6s):
Before getting into the Santa business, Alan had a job that was sort of the opposite of being Santa. He was a corrections officer at a state prison. He'd gotten into the work because he needed the money instability and stayed for over two decades. But he hated it and felt increasingly queasy about the whole system and his role in it. And then in 2017, he got a break from it, though not under great conditions, he got really sick and ended up having to take nearly a year and a half off from work for medical leave. He got depressed, stopped shaving, grew a long beard one day to cheer himself up. Alan and his wife Aaron decided to go to a comic book convention

2 (5m 48s):
Because obviously I'm, I'm kind of a nerd and I enjoy that sort of thing. But I went there and I wasn't really having a very good time. And you know, I was taking a break from walking around in the convention and I'm sitting in a little cafe and I'm, you know, having something, a drinker eating a sandwich. I don't really remember, but there's this guy there and he says, Hey, I like your beard. And I went, oh thanks. And he gave me this little card. And what it is, it's a, it's a recruitment card for this fraternal order of real bearded Santas.

4 (6m 24s):
Huh? There's something very sort of tied to the real world about the idea of recruiting a Santa when it feels like it should just be like some snowfalls on your shoulder or something and you become Santa. Yeah,

2 (6m 36s):
But no, this was just a guy sitting around at a comic-con

4 (6m 46s):
I talked to over a dozen first time Santas in reporting this story. Nearly everyone had this in common. It was someone else who first identified them as Santa turns out, that is the magical snow that falls on your shoulder. Alan shows a business card to his wife Erin, who suggests he dress up for their godson's kids. Christmas is still months away, but it might give him something to look forward to.

2 (7m 10s):
I'm thinking, okay, well I, I do have this beard now and I've always been definitely on the roton side of things. So I've got that working for me. And I went, well, I should quit feeling sorry for myself and maybe do something with this. Now

4 (7m 28s):
Alan figures, he'll play Santa just this once as a nice thing to do for his family, since he's like a grandfather to these kids. Alan was worried they might recognize him. He bleached his beard. White asked a friend who knows how to sew to make him a red suit. But in Christmas Eve, as he is heading over to the house, he realizes he actually has no idea what to do. So he just tries to imagine what a real Santa might do. Then opens the door and makes an entrance.

5 (7m 58s):
Who builds a house without a,

2 (8m 1s):
And they're freaking out.

5 (8m 3s):
Is it Christmas Eve?

2 (8m 5s):
They have no idea. It's, it was the furthest thing from their mind. Let's do this anyway. I didn't have tremendous expectations going into it. And then when I did it, it was just this tremendous rush of emotions. And that's not a thing that happens to me a lot. I've been a pretty buttoned up person most of my life. So when it was Santa for them, it became Santa for me. It's just one of the most powerful things I've ever felt in my life when I'm him. I'm a completely different person. And all my little neurosis and doubts and you know, faults and foibles, it's all gone and all the problems that Alan has.

2 (8m 51s):
Santa doesn't have any of those.

4 (8m 53s):
Alan loved this new version of himself, but pretty soon Christmas was over and so was medical leave, which meant Alan's beard had to go because as a corrections officer he had to be able to wear a gas mask in case a riot broke out at the prison. And you can't properly fit a gas mask over a beard. Alan couldn't afford to quit so he grabbed his clippers and made himself shave off his beard.

2 (9m 20s):
This is gonna sound really weird. I still have that beard in the Ziploc bag.

4 (9m 27s):
Really?

2 (9m 28s):
Yeah. I mourned that beard.

4 (9m 32s):
Why? Do you still have it?

2 (9m 37s):
I probably shouldn't, but it, it meant a lot to me. It was the key to the door that opened that Let me do this. Hmm. And when I had to shave that beard off, I was pretty unhappy about it. I was upset.

4 (9m 54s):
The next year Alan bought a fake beard to play Santa, but it looked so bad he couldn't bring himself to wear it. So two years pass without playing Santa. And then thanks in part to his wife, Erin, who's making enough money as an engineer to support them. Alan is finally able to retire and he throws himself into becoming Santa. The goal is to become a professional Santa. The kind that someone might hire for say a private party or a parade or the holy grail of Santa engagements. A chair gig First thing Alan starts growing his beard back then he signs up for Santa school.

4 (10m 34s):
A weekend intensive where you learn everything from what to say to skeptical kids to how to make an entrance. He meets lots of other Santas who offer helpful tips like how to sneak in a bathroom break while staying in character. Apparently you're supposed to say you have to make a call to the North Pole.

2 (10m 49s):
Finding out there's this entire world you didn't know about has been a little weird. And sometimes you wonder how you got to this place in life. This is a deeply weird thing for, you know, middle-aged and elderly guys to do. But, but it's kind of wonderful. I mean it's, it's, but it deeply strange at the same time,

4 (11m 13s):
By the time I'm talking to him, Alan spent almost a full year preparing for the role. He's a diligent and serious student of the Santa tradition. But there's one part of it. He doesn't believe in the naughty list. Surprising, maybe given his last job,

2 (11m 30s):
You've been bad. You're on the naughty list. That's, that's no way to be.

4 (11m 35s):
It feels punitive.

2 (11m 36s):
Exactly. And that's, I've seen punitive and I don't think it works. So I wanna be able to lift them up rather than put 'em in a corner somewhere and tell 'em that you're this thing

4 (11m 51s):
Being Santa let's him work on the other side of the ledger, which feels a lot better to him.

2 (11m 56s):
I tried to do that job as well as I could, but you know, it was really difficult. And when you run into a lot of people that sort of on the naughty list and he can't do anything for him and they can't do anything for themselves, it feels kind of hopeless. That's a lesson I learned from my career. People need redemption. They need to be accepted back into the fold even if they've made mistakes. Hmm. You know, finding a way to to forgive other people sort of gives you an opening to forgive yourself.

2 (12m 40s):
And there's a box of Kleenex here.

4 (12m 51s):
The day is finally arrived for Alan's first ever chair gig. We're driving to the event, which is at an abandoned pier. One in an outdoor mall, about a half an hour from his house. We hop out of the car and meet Joanna Garcia who hired Alan for the event. She lets us in through the back door of the building. There's a single clothing rack with t-shirts on it. Alan takes the shirts off so he can use the rack to hang all the pieces of a Santa outfit. But he's so nervous he keeps dropping stuff

2 (13m 20s):
Kind of almost jittery. Almost feels like I'm doing slap stick or something.

4 (13m 26s):
A line forms outside while Alan changes into his costume. He's got a fur-lined red rob and matching hat and a green vest with gold buttons underneath. He's wearing big black boots and little half moon spectacles that I have to say really pull the whole outfit together. But he still just looks like a guy in a costume. Sam. And then the door is open and the kids rush in.

2 (13m 51s):
Hello everyone. Merry Christmas. I love your dress.

4 (13m 57s):
Suddenly he's Santa confident, arms stretched, wide beaming. Whatever the opposite of neurotic is. He is that two little girls walk in and spot him and their eyes seem to double in size. Like they're seeing something truly magical. It's clear they have no idea. This is his first time doing this. That's great to them. He's Santa.

2 (14m 20s):
Okay, are we ready everybody?

4 (14m 22s):
Yeah. The day begins.

2 (14m 24s):
Do you know what she wants for Christmas sweetheart? Monster trucks. Monster trucks. I love monster trucks. We're ah,

4 (14m 32s):
As you can hear, he's got his kid voice on and I don't know what I expected exactly but this job requires just so much Pep Santa Allen is top dancing as fast as he can.

2 (14m 46s):
Jingle bells, jingle bells, jingle all the way

4 (14m 50s):
To keep the kids happy and engaged.

2 (14m 52s):
Fish bump. Yeah, load up. Boom.

4 (14m 56s):
So the photographer Sam can snap a good picture for the parents.

2 (14m 60s):
Paw Patrol. Paw Patrol Papa Paw Patrol

4 (15m 5s):
Watching Santa Allen. I thought about this thing another Santa, a pastor named Santa Don told me Santa Don said that back when he was in graduate school for psychology on his first day of class, his professor asked, how many of you have people who are already coming to you for counseling? Don and a few other students raise their hands. Then the professor goes, I'm gonna be honest with you, if people aren't already coming to you, getting a degree from here probably won't change that. You're either the kind of person people wanna confide in or you're not. Don thinks that the same is true for Santa. There's some innate Santa essence, some Santa vibe that you either have or you don't.

4 (15m 50s):
And here on his first chair gig, Santa Allen seemed to have it though it didn't always go so smoothly with every kid.

2 (15m 58s):
Here come Santa Claus. Here come Santa Claus. Right down Santa Claus.

4 (16m 8s):
There were a lot of crying babies.

2 (16m 13s):
Oh poor. I'm so sorry. We'll we'll get you next year. I'll see you on Christmas Eve. My friend here.

4 (16m 20s):
Sometimes kids ask Santa Allen for things that threw him for a loop like the boy who said he wanted trouble for Christmas. Or the girl who just wanted socks.

2 (16m 29s):
But like character socks. Right. Good socks. No, just relied sock socks. Okay, that's good.

4 (16m 35s):
One little girl wanted two hamsters. But as she asked for them, her parents stood behind her with wide eyes vigorously shaking their heads. No of course there were some awkward moments like when Santa Allen accidentally mistaked a boy with long hair for a girl and this kid who looked like a tiny adult and who was not having it was Santa Allen's questions.

2 (16m 59s):
I have animals. Do you know what kind of animals I have?

8 (17m 3s):
The pretend kind?

2 (17m 5s):
No, the real reindeer. They have antlers like this.

8 (17m 9s):
Yeah, I know. I've seen them on tv.

2 (17m 11s):
Have you seen Rudolph? Do you, have you seen his nose?

8 (17m 15s):
Yeah I know he and nose lights

2 (17m 17s):
Up. Yeah, it's lights up and it's red. Yeah. Are you going to school right now?

8 (17m 24s):
No,

2 (17m 25s):
No.

8 (17m 25s):
I'm barely four.

2 (17m 27s):
Oh. Some people go to school when they're four.

4 (17m 29s):
Santa Allen had imagined fielding all these big hard questions from kids. But in practice the real work of imitating Santa, it's more like working a factory line. A quick back and forth, snap a picture. Then on to the next, the hardest question he ended up getting was about Mrs. Claus.

8 (17m 49s):
I was gonna ask you, okay, you can ask Mrs. Claus if she actually does bake cookies. So like if she does, can she send me one?

2 (18m 2s):
I don't, she doesn't. She just mostly makes them for the North Pole. But we'll ask And she is important. She is the CEO of the North Pole. Mrs. Claus is actually my boss.

4 (18m 13s):
Alan wanted to Yes. And the little girl, I didn't wanna promise cookies and set her up to be disappointed on Christmas day. So instead he pivoted to a feminist message. He later told me he wants to update the image of Mrs. Claus for kids, especially for girls. He doesn't like the idea that she just bakes cookies and putters around the North Pole all day At 1:00 PM the doors are closed. Santa Allen's been there for two hours, talked over a hundred kids. He changes out of his costume and into what's referred to as Santa casual red clothing.

4 (18m 53s):
But not the whole shebang Christmas light. He packs up and we get in the car, we're about to drive back to his house. When Alan realizes he's left his backpack inside the store, this is a problem for him because he really doesn't wanna go back and get it and have people see him when he is not in the full Santa costume. But as we're walking back to the pier one, a guy in a car notices Alan

2 (19m 17s):
Santa

4 (19m 18s):
Alan puts his finger up to his lips as if to say,

2 (19m 23s):
I won't say nothing.

4 (19m 25s):
I won't say nothing. The guy says, then we're standing in front of the store waiting to be let back in. When a girl in the backseat of a car driving by yells Santa,

2 (19m 37s):
Oh geez. You kinda don't want to ruin the image for anybody. You

4 (19m 41s):
Feel embarrassed.

2 (19m 42s):
I yeah,

4 (19m 43s):
Alan tries to tuck himself into the corner of the building by the door to hide from people. Okay. But it doesn't work at all. Forgetting everyone who passes by double takes him or yells at him. Hey,

2 (19m 55s):
Hey Santa. Hi

4 (19m 57s):
Alan. Looks miserable. It's funny you've transformed back into

2 (20m 1s):
Alan. I know without

4 (20m 2s):
The

2 (20m 2s):
Robe. I know you're, you love watching me squirm like this.

4 (20m 7s):
No, I don't but I'm, I'm struck by the transformation. Yeah, how different you are.

2 (20m 13s):
I guess I'm back to being Clark Kens or something. I don't know.

4 (20m 16s):
You're you're literally cowering in a corner. I, this is not the man I saw 30 minutes ago. Well

2 (20m 23s):
I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm not him, I'm me.

4 (20m 27s):
Alan did not plan on ending his first chair gig glued to the side of a pier one. But there is a part of him, he tells me later that's relieved to be himself again. All that cheeriness being so enthusiastically on it's exhausting being Santa

1 (20m 57s):
De Cornfeld. It's one of the producers of our show Fact two Jews for Jesus for just one day. For Alex Edelman. It's easy to remember his first Christmas cuz it was his only Christmas. He was raised as an Orthodox Jew and he says his family was very Jewish, casually dropped Hebrew around the house. He and his brother AJ called the parents Ima and Aba for mom and dad. He's a comedian and tells this story about how they were so Jewish and so surrounded by Jews he didn't even know he was Jewish for a while.

2 (21m 32s):
And I remember the first time I was aware of being Jewish, I was at a children's birthday party at a Chucky cheese and I reached for a slice of pizza that had some sausage on it or some pepperoni, some something not kosher. And my grandfather saw me reaching and he kicked my hand away kicked. And he went, you can't have the we're Jewish. And I said, what does that mean? And with a totally straight face he just went, it means you'll never be happy. Then I went, Papa, I don't wanna be Jewish. And then my grandfather laughed at me and went, chief that's the most Jewish thing there is

1 (22m 14s):
When Ox and his brother AJ were whittle, they attended Yeshiva Jewish day school. So like I say, their whole world was people who never celebrated or talked about Christmas. But in the show Alex has been touring. He talks about this one December when he was six and AJ was four. He mentions by the way a family friend in the story and he changed her name when he tells the story on stage. Here's Alex.

2 (22m 38s):
All of the best Jewish moments of my life are moments where Jewish values presented themselves in like unconventional places. Like once when I was a kid, my family had Christmas, my mom and this friend named Kelly and Kelly had lost her siblings like in years previous. And her parents weren't in the picture, she was alone in Boston. And my mom noticed that she would get sad around the holidays and this is a really good friend. And so my mom said, Hey Kelly, why don't you come to our house for Christmas? That's the kind of person my mom is. My father did not want that. My mom is a Jew from Cincinnati. She's a Midwestern Jew. It's a slightly gentler existence. My father grew up Jewish in Boston like me, but dad grew up Jewish in Boston in a time when it's actually really hard to be Jewish there, which is between the years fifteen hundred and nineteen ninety four.

9 (23m 30s):
And

2 (23m 30s):
He's like, Cheryl, I will not have Christmas in a Jewish home. And she's like, Lazar, we're having Christmas. And he's like Over my dead buddy. Are we having Christmas? So they compromised and we had Christmas. AJ and I come downstairs one day day. My parents are sitting in the living room. I don't know if anyone else grew up in a home like this. We were never allowed as children in the living room. Never. The living room was for guests and tragedies. Those are the only times we were allowed. And everything in the living room was covered with like a thick plastic sheet in case like the real owners of the home. Up one day we come downstairs, my parents are in the living room, no guests and AJ and I look at each other like, oh no, bubby died again.

2 (24m 14s):
And like we walk in and we sit down on the forbidden couch and my mom just went, boys this year we're gonna have Christmas. And this is how young and insulated we were. AJ and I looked at each other and we looked at my parents and I just went, what's Christmas? And my father went, It's like Hanukkah. And my mom undermined him immediately and went, yeah but maybe even a little bit more fun. Hanukkah sucks. I appreciate the new politically correct world that everybody lives in.

2 (24m 55s):
We all pretend that all the holidays are equal. They're not equal. Everybody knows it. Hanukkah's very much the diet Coke to Christmases black tar heroine. There is no comparison. There is no comparison. And you never know when Hanukkah is cuz the calendars sometimes isn't early December. Sometimes it's in like late July. You never <unk> No. My non-Jewish friends are always like, well you guys are lucky. You get eight days of gifts. I have never met a single Jew who has ever received eight days of gift. Here's how it works. You get one gift over the course of the eight days. If you're getting a bike, you get like a pedal on the first day and the handlebars and the second day and the wheel on the third day. It is absolute bull <unk> Anyway, we do Christmas and oh my god do we do Christmas?

2 (25m 42s):
We do the lights, we do the stockings and glitter. We run whole hog, no hog kosher Christmas dinner. But we deck these goddamn halls deck and Kelly comes into our house and Kelly White wasp like Princess Diana haircut, chunky gold earrings, Irma scarf, shocking blue pantsuit

9 (26m 9s):
White.

2 (26m 11s):
But she walks into our house like a little kid and she starts to cry immediately. And my mom just went, boys, whatever Kelly wants to do, we're gonna do. And we did all this deep cuts Christmas stuff like we strong popcorn together on a string. We ate our way through an entire chocolate advent calendar in like 25 minutes. And we watch Christmas movies. Please try to imagine being a young Jew who has never seen a single Christmas movie. And then in one day you watch like seven of them in a row. AJ and I are like, what is this? And the one that sticks out is the Peanuts Christmas special Snoopy Charlie Brown.

2 (26m 55s):
AJ and I are like pressed up against screen. We're like vibrating the joy and AJ's like the meaning of Christmas Snoopy. And I'm like the spirit of Christmas, Charlie Brown, my dad's in the corner like praying for lightning. Like at some point Kelly crying walks over to us and she's like, boys, we need to put out cookies for Santa Claus, don't we? And AJ and I are like, ah-huh. And we look at my dad who's already covering his face and I just went, ABA, Who's Santa Claus?

2 (27m 37s):
And my father rarely cursed in front of us and my mother says she doesn't think this happened, but I remember so clearly and maybe he thought we couldn't hear him. My father looked at my mom and he went, Cheryl, Jesus <unk>

9 (27m 52s):
Christ.

2 (27m 56s):
And my mom went Lazar and he went, come on. And she went do

9 (27m 60s):
It.

2 (28m 7s):
My father walked up to us and he went, Santa Claus boys, he is a fat man. And he comes down non-Jewish chimneys in the middle of the night and he gives gifts to young gentiles. And he said, he's like Elijah, but instead of drinking your wine he eats cookies and leaves you gifts. If you don't know who Elijah is on Passover, the Jewish holiday in my house, here's what will happen. Your uncle will open the door for Elijah and then one of the other uncles under the table will start kicking the table.

2 (28m 51s):
And when the wine cup shakes they'll go, look, he's drinking, he's

9 (28m 55s):
Drinking.

2 (28m 58s):
And Adrian and I look at each other and we look at my dad and Adrian just went, Bette, which means for real. And my father looked at my mom and he looked at us and he went, yeah, of course he's real. We put out cookies for Santa Claus. I remember every little detail, little table, red tablecloth, power rangers, plate three chocolate cookies. We're very skeptical obviously. We go upstairs, we go to bed, we come downstairs the next morning the cookies are gone, they're gone.

2 (29m 39s):
And AJ and I see this and we black out completely. We like lose consciousness. But I know what's happened cuz I saw home videos a couple years ago and on them we're like, oh my god. Oh my God. He was here, he was here. And at some point AJ's standing on the couch and he looked at me and he just went, Santa came and I went and we ran out to the garage. Why? This is the one concession my father got from my mom. He's like, Sheryl, I will not have a Christmas tree in a Jewish home.

2 (30m 23s):
And she's like, I can respect that Lazar. We'll put it in the garage. And there are two photos of this. They're the weirdest photos. We're wearing jackets cuz we're in a Boston garage in December. But we're wearing pajamas cuz we're children and we're wearing yamakas cuz we're Jews. But we're standing in front of a fully decorated Christmas tree with a teddy bear on the top holding a DRA and wearing a yamaka. And we go to Yeshiva that day because Jewish day school, if you can believe it, not canceled for Christmas. And we come home that night and my father gets a phone call.

2 (31m 6s):
It's exactly what you think. And he picks it up and the first thing the principal says to him is, professor Edelman, your sons have a lying problem. My father said, what did they do? And the principal said, well, the teacher tried to explain to the children the very delicate topic of Christmas and Alex raised his hand and he said, we had Christmas. And the teacher said, you didn't have Christmas. And he said, Hmm, pretty sure we had Christmas. Nice stalking Snoopy Charlie Brown meaning of Christmas pre. And the future's like get end, have Christmas Hanukkah three weeks ago or nine months from now, depending on the year.

2 (31m 50s):
Anyway, Don Jews believe in this guy called Santa Claus. And in my mind's eye, I remember AJ raising his hand and saying we had Santa Claus. That's what I remember. But there are conflicting accounts here. Apparently AJ didn't raise his hand. Apparently AJ in the words of the teacher lifted two fingers like he was ordering a second martini. And AJ didn't say we had Santa Claus.

2 (32m 31s):
Apparently AJ just went, we know Santa Claus. And the Teeter's like, you don't know Santa Claus, aj. And they just like, Hmm,

9 (32m 43s):
Pretty sure we don't. Santa Claus.

2 (32m 46s):
And the other kids were like, who's Santa Claus? AJ's like, oh he's amazing. He's a fat man. And he comes down non-Jewish chimneys in the middle of the night and he gives gifts to the young Gentiles. He's like Elijah, but instead of wine there's cookies and gifts. But last night, because he's friends with our dad, he came down Arch Chiney and he left this Walkman underneath the tree that my parents put in the garage and he ate all of the cookies. And the principal said, professor Edelman, is this true? And apparently my father just went, no, it's not entirely true.

2 (33m 39s):
And the principal said, what do you mean it's not entirely true? And my father said, Cheryl and I ate the cookies. AJ's wrong. Santa didn't come to our house. And my mom says there was a significant pause on the other end of the phone. And then the principal went, I know Santa didn't come to your house. He had Christmas. My father explained, he explained that Kelly was bereft and that she had nowhere to go and that he, he had reservations about this, but he let it happen cuz he thought it was actually a really valuable, teachable moment where he could explain to his children that doing the thing centered in Jewish values may not always appear conventionally Jewish.

2 (34m 33s):
And more than anything else doing this for this woman who really had nowhere where to go really was a classic example of what Jews would traditionally call mitzvah, which means good deed. Principal listens. Dad explains, when my dad finishes the principal said, professor Edelman, I understand where you're coming from but you're wrong because what you've actually done is you've introduced this holiday that is foreign and corrosive into your home and you've clearly confused your children and perhaps harmed them permanently. Well, you've given them this holiday and next year you're gonna take it away from them. So what's that gonna do?

2 (35m 15s):
This isn't a good deed, this isn't a mitzvah, it's idle worship, which is like the most grievous sin that you can possibly commit and you and your wife need to begin repenting for that right now. And my father, to his credit, went well. Clearly, rabbi, you don't understand the meaning of Christmas. And then he hung up the phone.

1 (35m 43s):
Alex Settleman with an excerpt of his one man show just for us. He's taking the show to London in January to find out when he's bringing the show to your city. Go to alex edelman comedy.com. The radio excerpt of his story was produced for our show by Avida Kornfeld coming up the hottest sexiest parts of it's a wonderful live and other revelations about a very old film from a first time viewer that's in a minute from Chicago Bubble Radio. When our program continues,

GiveWell (36m 15s):
Many of us open our hearts and make donations during the holiday season. But when you donate, how can you feel confident that your donations are really making a big impact? GiveWell spends over 30,000 hours each year researching charitable organizations and only directs funding to a few of the highest impact evidence backed opportunities they found. GiveWell will match our donation up to $100 before the end of the year while matching funds last to claim your match. Go to givewell.org and pick podcast and enter this American life at checkout.

U.S. Bank (36m 48s):
A few years ago, I quit my job in the restaurant industry to build my career as a doula. Being a doula gives me so much joy, but I also need to prioritize so I don't burn out. That flexibility of being able to take care of others and myself, that's when I know I'm really thriving. US Bank supports each step on the journey to thrive. To learn how the bank can help you celebrate wins both big and small. Visit www.nytimes.com/us Bank thrivers.

The New York Times (37m 20s):
I came across this article in the New York Times About grandma's road tripping all over China. I Just wanted to know more. I wanted to understand more About infrastructure vaccine Rollouts. An obscure topic like a dead magician's collectiblesIgnites in me this feeling where I can go read more The times always zooms in and connects Me to people around the world.Find out how the New York Times can fit into your Life. At ny times.com/life.

1 (37m 51s):
It's American Life. Me Glass. Today's program, baby's First Christmas. Stories of people trying something for the very first time at Christmas and what that does for them. We've arrived at, at three of our show, act three. Buffalo Gals, can't You Come out tonight? So in this story, the new experience that somebody's having at Christmas is simple. We have a grown man, a man who loves films, classic films, obscure films, new films, all kinds of films. And he seen tons of them who somehow has never seen the most pervasive movie that's out there at Christmas. It's a wonderful life that man, somebody who's been on the show a bunch. One of our former producers, Neil Drumming, our executive editor Emmanuel Berry, is in real life friends with Neil and took it upon herself to change his life forever or possibly not at all and show him the film.

19 (38m 39s):
I've watched a lot of movies with Neil. It's fun because he gets so giddy and excited about showing you a movie you haven't seen. You always know you're going to have a thoughtful conversation afterwards, but I also sometimes hate it like when he recites all the dialogue and Dazed and confused while you're trying to watch it. Him. So how'd he miss this movie that's been on television every year since he was born?

20 (39m 2s):
I really, I feel like the Christmas, Christmas movies that I love are the movies with Christmas in the background. Like all British movies, but like love actually, or like Die Hard or like movies with Christmas in that background. Christmas in the foreground. Like I've never seen the one with the little kid with the glasses. A Christmas story. Yeah, but like the movies that are just Christmas, I just didn't have a inclination to see them. I think it's because Christmas for me was always in the background. Like I was a Jehovah's Witness. So yeah. So Christmas was like a thing that happened around me.

19 (39m 35s):
No Christmas tree, no Christmas carols, no Christmas movies. Given that, what is your favorite Christmas movie? Christmas in the background movie, I guess is what we're calling

20 (39m 46s):
Them. I mean, I think diehard is clearly my favorite Christmas movie. I mean I'm, I'm, I hate to be so traditional like as a male, so

19 (39m 52s):
Traditional. I

20 (39m 53s):
Mean cuz a lot of men, a lot of people, a lot of men will say that diehard is their favorite Christmas. It is.

19 (39m 58s):
Is it just your favorite movie?

20 (39m 60s):
It is In My Top Five Consistently.

19 (40m 2s):
Neil, you see is a classic example of the problem. I think there's a world of people out there who haven't seen its wonderful life because their impression is it's just some corny hallmarky movie. Weirdly, I think the most popular Christmas movie out there is also somehow the most underrated by people like Neil to be upfront about this. I love, it's a wonderful life. I love the romance of it, the darkness, the humor. I love Jimmy Stewart, the lead actor and his bumbling charm. Zu Zoo's, petals, the Broken banister. I love it all. It's not just my favorite Christmas film. It's my favorite film and I want Neil to see what I see. What do you know about It's a Wonderful

20 (40m 43s):
Life. It's a Christmas movie because it happened. It's always on the air during Christmas. But, and I know, I think I, I think Macy's is involved or something

19 (40m 51s):
Wrong. Here's what else he thinks. He knows Jimmy Stewart. It's in black and white and he saw something on Instagram that it's about a person losing everything.

20 (41m 1s):
Which makes me think it's like, maybe it's like some kind of like yuel tied retelling of the job story. Okay. I don't know. That's a guess.

19 (41m 9s):
Another reason It's a wonderful Life holds a special place in my heart. The ending of the film actually makes me get a little teary. I'm not a crier. I'm embarrassed by the idea of a film making me cry. But for lots of people I think it's a wonderful life. Sneaks up on you. Do you think you'll

20 (41m 25s):
Cry? I mean I Oh absolutely will not cry. The only movie I can think of that I cried at was like, there was a Will Smith movie where he played like a poor father once, I can't remember the name of that movie. Pursuit of Happiness? Yes. Pursuit of Happiness. He cried during pursuit of coming because he had this thing, he had some long speech about failure as a man and it just, oh wow. I I don't know if you, you might cry Neil. Yeah. Okay. But if it's, if it's a, I mean, okay, that was a few years ago. Let's see if I, if if there is a long speech about failing as a man, then maybe I'll cry. Cuz that's, that's what subject close to

21 (41m 56s):
My,

19 (41m 60s):
We start the film in case you like Neil haven't seen it. The movie is about George Bailey, a bright, goofy, and friendly young man who wants to see the world but keeps getting stuck in his hometown. First, it's a job that keeps him there. His father passes and he takes his place running the family business. Then it's a romance. George meets Mary at a dance where they fall into a pool and they're forced to walk home in whatever dry clothing they can wrangle together. Mary is in a bathrobe and George is in a football uniform. Three sizes too. Big buffalo girls.

21 (42m 31s):
Can't you come out tonight?

19 (42m 38s):
Neil loves a romcom, a good meet. Cute.

21 (42m 41s):
You know, if it wasn't me talking, I'd say you with her prettiest girl in time. Well, why don't you say it? Oh, I don't know. Maybe I will say it. This is hot. It's hot. This is hot. What do you mean it's hot? This is a hot mecu. This is hot. It's a very good me. Am I talking too much? Yes. Why don't chuck kisser instead talking desk? How's that? Why don't chuck kisser instead of talking this wild, sexy, this is amazing to me. This is so hot to me. I'm kisser, huh? Oh, you just wasted on the wrong,

19 (43m 19s):
The chemistry between the two leads on this fateful walk home. I can tell Neil's at least somewhat sold. George and Mary get married and just when George is about to get out of town, travel with his wife, there's a bank run. Then after that, a war

21 (43m 32s):
Came a

19 (43m 33s):
War. Each time he's faced with another obstacle. Resuck, he sticks around, tries to fix it until one fateful Christmas Eve. His business is about to go under because of a careless mistake made by one of his employees. But George is the one who will be held responsible. He's lost. Feels like he has no place to turn. He goes home marrying the kids are decorating for Christmas. Any snaps.

21 (43m 56s):
George, what's wrong? Wrong? Everything. Troy, you call this a happy family. Why do we have to have all these kids? Damn.

19 (44m 6s):
Not so merry Christmas Eve. Isn't Neil?

21 (44m 9s):
I'm, I'm with it. Let's get darker. Let's, let's see how I'm, I'm, I'm on board. Let's go. This is horrible. What'd he

19 (44m 18s):
Say? George wishes he'd never been born. And an angel named Clarence makes his wish come true. They've

21 (44m 23s):
Got your

19 (44m 23s):
Wish. He sees what the town would be like if he didn't exist and it's horrible. Ruled by money-grubbing robber barons. Nobody has jobs or hope. Hey,

22 (44m 32s):
Going on

19 (44m 32s):
Around here. Neil points out. It's very much like a film he has seen back to the future. Only then does George realize the impact his life has made and that he in fact, had a wonderful life. Sorry. Couldn't help myself.

22 (44m 45s):
Clarence.

19 (44m 46s):
Clarence takes back George's wish. He runs home to his family, George, and then everyone in town shows up and gives him money so his business will survive.

22 (44m 54s):
Mary did George. Mary did it. She told some people you were in trouble with it. They scattered all over town collecting money. Didn't ask any question, just charge. Run.

19 (45m 6s):
I look over at Neil, no tears, but when the film ends, he tells me that he liked it and he was surprised by it and recognized that it was not just a Christmas film.

20 (45m 16s):
I definitely forgot it was a Christmas movie. I stopped thinking about it a Christmas. It doesn't feel that, like, that doesn't feel like what it's about. Yeah. Until they sing. Oh, like

19 (45m 24s):
I thought it was so funny when you were saying at the beginning that you were like, oh yeah, like Christmas movies or Christmases in the background. I was like, yeah, this is, this is one of those films

20 (45m 34s):
Actually. Yeah. Yeah. Even the ole time is like, to me is a New Year's thing. Yeah. It's like the Christmas part doesn't really come back to Christmas. It's not like about that. You know what it's like a lot? It's like die work. No.

19 (45m 55s):
Okay, say

20 (45m 56s):
More. They, okay. The bo, the theme of both of them is to like that things aren't as bad as you think. Is that just like your life could that if you stop and appreciate your life, okay. Not even just that you, it's not just that you stop and appreciate your life. It's that circumstance. Dire circumstance forces you to appreciate your life. So in diehard, like a series of ridiculously absurd terrorists type events makes it so that like he appreciates his, his marriage and his family more and he fights to say that. That's what I love about that movie. That's literally the thing I love the most about that movie is how like it is kind of a romantics film.

20 (46m 37s):
Like it's like, wait, everything I had was great. I should go back and save it. And this is that same thing of just like in the moment when things are bad, you can feel like it wasn't worth it, but if you like stop and look at it, it's worth saving. It's like worth preserving. It's the end of the year. Like maybe the these kinds of movies are supposed to like remind us that like amongst all the things you did wrong, there's something, there's like it's ultimately worth it. I don't know. Yeah. But maybe that's a common theme of like movies that air at the end of the year. Like maybe we just want to be reassured going into the next year that like what we did wasn't completely a waste of time.

19 (47m 22s):
At one point, while we're talking about the film, Neil asked why I cry At that moment. The townspeople come out to support George and I. I say it's nice to think that people might recognize all that you do for them. Neil tells me, maybe that's why I'm emotional because I do a lot for other people and Neil says, maybe that's why he's not so emotional because well, he doesn't not news to me. Case in point, what I did for him this Christmas gave him the gift of watching. It's a wonderful life. What he did for me got me to watch Die Hard.

1 (48m 1s):
Emmanuel Barry is our show's executive editor

3 (48m 8s):
That

1 (48m 9s):
Four single Bells, Sachi Cole is celebrating her Christmas first of round this year, one that she is still puzzling through. Here she is.

23 (48m 21s):
My marriage was over by last Christmas, but I didn't notice because I was having such a nice time. One of my ex's many radiant qualities was how much he liked the holidays. Always in star contrast to me, a misery gremlin who recently escaped a bog and is allergic to natural sunlight. I didn't really grow up celebrating Christmas. I was raised Hindu by immigrants who just didn't really care about the holiday. The extent of our decorations was a sparse plastic tree with screwed in branches that looked like if a spruce had recently been set ablaze. Our family's dedication to the holiday was always cartoonishly pathetic. But when I met my ex a little over 10 years ago, I realized that being with him meant being with a Christmas person.

23 (49m 4s):
It was like joining a cult or the belief structure was built around a glazed ham. Being with him meant we bought a real live tree year after year, filling our apartment with pine needles that I'd find until we bought the next real live tree. Doesn't it smell great? He'd say, and I'd reply with no because years of cigarette smoking has robbed me of a sense of smell. My ex-husband was practically competitive about gift giving. I was giving me the best gift, the thing I wanted sometimes even the several things I wanted. One year he took me to Cuba. Another year he bought me a Nintendo console that had been reliably sold out for months.

23 (49m 46s):
The year after that delicate diamond studs for my non DESE deserving years, I got him a bag like three times. Just three different bags. I don't know, you seem to need a lot of bags. I don't know what I'm doing out here. Okay. I resented Christmas and his love for it often. We used to fight about how I wanted to go see my family for the holidays, even though there wasn't much of a holiday to speak of and how he wanted to go back to his sleepy little hometown with the three car Santa Claus parade and his stepmother's gingerbread village at the grandchildren bickered over and the mint sauce with his dad's lamb and the Christmas brunch with his mother.

23 (50m 33s):
I was always fighting against my instincts to hate everything, to be cynical, to ask to be left alone. I didn't like Christmas because it required so much sincerity and emotional intelligence. I clearly obviously still lack. We separated in February and he's now off building a life I know nothing about. I was worried about how he'd do alone at Christmas, but you know who is alone in actuality me the Christmas hater. I'm Grinch at the top of the mountain looking down at the denizens of Whoville asking in the smallest voice possible.

23 (51m 14s):
Do they miss me down there? Because though I was always loathed to admit it, I did like so many things about Christmas with his family. I did like how I always felt warm and soft. Between December 23rd and 26th, like I was a big fat baby in a plush blanket. I became comfortable with it and eventually I learned to look forward to it. Christmas with him and his people was the closest to cortisol zero I've ever gotten in my life. My ex-husband's mother and stepmother always told me they loved me On Christmas day when we exchanged gifts and I always said it back, I meant it too a rarity for me. I liked being a daughter-in-law and offering to help with the Turkey, even though I have no idea how to cook a Turkey.

23 (52m 0s):
There was comfort in opening the garage door and seeing his cousins piled in there wearing old labatt sweaters, chain smoking and fighting over who stole who's lighter. All these 40 something year olds reverting to who they were when they were 17. My ex grew up somewhere without the pollution of a big city, so you could always see the stars. I wish I had spent more time looking at them. To marry into a family that loves Christmas is to be conscripted into something that feels pleasingly, conspiratorial. You know exactly what you need to do and where and for whom the days pass and inch you closer to December 24th and you have a precise awareness of what's expected of and for you.

23 (52m 48s):
And when the holiday is done, you have all these little secrets to whisper to each other in delight. Remember that year my mom put brown sugar in the eggs she made for Christmas day brunch. My husband would whisper into my mouth while we lay in bed after we return to our lives in New York to the albatross that increasingly was our marriage. I'd laugh and say yes, but we ate it because we love her and we love each other, right? We love each other. Say it one more time just so I'm sure that you're sure. Now, all I feel is this constant twinge in my gut. It's like like having a tail cut off. I wasn't supposed to even have one, but I did for a while and now I don't.

23 (53m 33s):
I thought about spending Christmas alone this year. I could do something devastating and romantic, like take myself on a solo vacation, maybe somewhere sunny, where I'd swan around and drapey fabric and look sad and hot and sad. Maybe at a resort, everyone there would think I had a secret. But the secret is I'm sad. Instead on both hands, I count the people I won't speak to this December. His folks, his siblings, his nieces and nephews, the cousin of his that was my favorite. The other cousin of his who always spent too much time touching my lower back, his aunt who always called me Sasha.

23 (54m 13s):
Even 10 years in, I'll add this pain to the several others that harden me from the inside out. The first year of divorce is just a march of agonies. Every notable event, the first one you do by yourself, first birthday where we don't even speak. First family medical crisis where we don't clinging to each other like driftwood in a tsunami. And now our first Christmas apart. My grief around my divorce remains wildly unpredictable. I don't have any strategy or plan on how to cope with the holidays.

23 (54m 54s):
I just have to walk through a TJ Max and glare at the Christmas display and how I have no use for a Santa Claus cookie jar. I never did, but now I really don't. In the end, I decided to just go home this year and lick my wounds amongst my own family. My 12 year old niece and sister-in-law celebrate Christmas with glee. There are cookies to be iced and an embarrassment of riches under the tree and a fireplace and a mini dachsund named beans who will gladly snap a hunk of Turkey off of your fork. Even my dad enjoys Christmas if forced. He will never say no to a slice of pecan pie after a dinner that he complains does not have enough masala.

23 (55m 36s):
I could conceivably find pleasure in this holiday again if I worked at it, but I don't want to right now. It's not that I like or dislike the holiday. It's simply that now it hurts my feelings. I crave nothing more than indifference to view Christmas as, but another holiday that isn't mine. Easter, Hanukkah Eid. You won't see me crying over Kasmir Pulaski Day For the last year. Everything has felt either triumphant or devastating and it would be nice to feel instead. Nothing at all.

1 (56m 21s):
Sachi Call is the author of One Day, will All Be Dead and none of this will matter. And a cultural reporter at Buzzfeed News, her story was produced by Diane Woo.

1 (57m 8s):
Well welcome was produced today with Holiday Spirit by Sean Cole. The people put together today's program include Jane Ackerman, bi Mami, Michael of Viva de Kornfeld, Cassie Halle, Val Kip Nelson, Katherine Raimando, Nadia Raymond Ryan Rumie, Alyssa Ship Christophers. Matt Tierney and Diane Wu are managing editors. Sarah Aben, our senior editors, David Kestenbaum. Our executive editor is Emmanuel Barry. Special thanks to Editor Weisman, aka a DJ Preschool, Rachel Albert, Ben Levine, Phoenix, Henkel and Majestic Retail in Redlands, California, where we recorded Santa Allen. Our website, this american life.org where you can stream our archive, that's over 750 episodes for absolutely free.

1 (57m 50s):
Also, there's videos, there's lists of favorite episodes, there's tons of other stuff there. Again, this American life.org, this American Life is delivered to public radio stations by prx, the Public Radio Exchange. X is always Joe Programs co-founder of Mr. Troy Mati. You know, he came into my office this week and spent like, I don't know, 25 minutes working on the settings on my web browser. I really had no idea what he was doing. Finally, he turns to me triumphant and declares

25 (58m 17s):
The cookies are gone.

1 (58m 20s):
I'm our glass. Merry Christmas, happy holiday back next week. More stories of this American life. Hey

3 (58m 26s):
Friends, wherever youre, Hey friends. Friends who singing's a lot more fun than you'll ever know. So come on now, join me in the first. So come on now. Join me in the first. So come on now. Join me in the first. Come on now,

26 (58m 37s):
Join me in the first, the first and the first and the first and the first and the first and the first and the first

1 (59m 12s):
Next week on the podcast with this American life, one of our producers, Karen talks with a friend of hers from church who also was one of the most notorious burglars in the history of San Francisco. Like at the same time, he'd drop into stores from the ceiling police caught him, spider-Man.

27 (59m 29s):
I can't think of a single place that I wanted to get into that I couldn't get into

1 (59m 34s):
Needy superheroes. That's next week on the podcast or on your local public radio station.