0 (0s):
This podcast is supported by Amazon Music. On a winter night in a small community near Denver, Jim Matthews arrived home late. He expected to find his 12 year old daughter, but the house was eerily quiet. His daughter's shoes were on the floor, but she was gone, and it would be 35 years before she would be found dead. The hit True Crime podcast suspect is back for a second season with a story that attempts to separate one man's true crime obsession from a motive for murder. Listen to suspect vanished in the snow on Amazon music, or wherever you get your podcasts.

1 (35s):
A quick warning, there are curse words that are un beeped in today's episode of the show. If you prefer a beeped version, you can find that at our website, this american life.org.

2 (45s):
When my friend Edgar was a kid growing up in Israel, his mom would tell him a story every night before he went to sleep, but it was almost always a story that she would invent, like right then on the spot. Never read him many children's books.

3 (58s):
And for my mom, the, the idea of telling a stories from children booked was very much like kind of a ordering a pizza instead of making us a dinner. It would mean that she doesn't love us enough.

2 (1m 12s):
It's almost every night. It was a custom made story with flying camels or a room that people would walk into and lose the power of speech and all sorts of other made up things. But always, Edgar says the details and the feelings in the stories echoed whatever was going on in Edgar's life that particular day. Edgar's mom did this for Edgar because her parents had done it for her when she was a little girl in Poland during World War ii,

3 (1m 40s):
During war time. The greatest gift that she got from her parents were the stories that they told her because they couldn't give her food, they couldn't give her clothes, they could only tell her stories, and they would put all the love and knowledge and imagination in it. So those stories would be amazing. And she would tell me that when they would begin the story, she would be afraid that she fall asleep in the middle, and then if you first sleep in the middle, they would never finish the story. So basically, nobody will know how the story ends. So my mom kind of grew up about this idea that a story was like kind of a hug or a kiss, or it was just something that you give or share with somebody that you love a lot.

2 (2m 30s):
After all, that Edgar grew up to be a short story writer. He's, Edgar Karat, has lots of books. There were times that his mother would not invent a story, but tell him some story from her past. And he loved those too. As a kid, Edgar had a favorite that he would ask her to retell more than any other story.

3 (2m 47s):
And this story takes place in the very beginning of the war, escaping the little town they lived in,

2 (2m 54s):
Escaping right before the Germans arrived. German,

3 (2m 57s):
The Jews,

2 (2m 58s):
And the, of course mom is just five years old. She remembered her mother holding her hand, carrying her baby brother.

3 (3m 5s):
And they're running as fast as they can. You know, they're running and running and running, and all the people of the village are, or the town are running in front of them. And everybody's much faster than my mother, who's little child and her mother who's carrying a baby. So basically, if it's a race, they are definitely on the last place, right? But my mom kind of sees up the head of them something that looks like a big grandfather clock that seems to be moving.

2 (3m 35s):
Wait, wait, somebody's carrying a grandfather clock with them as they're flinging.

3 (3m 39s):
Apparently there was somebody who was carrying it on on their back. But for my mom, from the distance, it just looked like kind of a cartoon.

2 (3m 47s):
A cartoon, because from where they were behind, which you sees is this cock right with two feet sticking out underneath it, trudging along, and then an arm poking out on either side,

3 (3m 58s):
It amuses her because, you know, she's a little child. And, and even when she told me about that, you know, many, many years after that, I knew that when she would tell this bitch, she would always laugh, you know? And, and it also amused her that she was in the middle, like out of town running, and she could tell what the time was every second, which is something that is amazing, you know, when you are a five year

2 (4m 21s):
Old. So for her, it's fun. They're fleeing and she's not feeling dangerous. She's just like, this is kind of fun. Yeah.

3 (4m 27s):
But when they, they got closer to the clock, she could start hearing the man gasping, the man who carried this clock on his back, because apparently the clock was too heavy. And she said that just as they were about to reach him, she saw the man collapse flat on his face with the clock on, on top of him.

2 (4m 47s):
Oh my God.

3 (4m 48s):
And, and my mother wanted to stop to check what's with this guy. But her mother said, we have to run. We have to run. We don't have time. And, and they ran a little bit more. And then her mother said, listen, you know, there's no way we gonna escape the Germans, eh, our only chance is if we go into a cabbage field, there was a cabbage field on the side of the road and hides her until they pass. And they, they went into the cabbage field and lie down. But as soon as they lie down on the field, her baby brother begins crying. And my grandmother and my mom's mother is afraid that, you know that because of the sound, the Germans will come. So she started breastfeeding him.

3 (5m 30s):
And my mother said that, that this moment where her mother breastfeeds her kid brother, she said that, that the sky were kind of blue, and she was in the field and she was lying on her back. Everything seemed fairly normal for a second.

2 (5m 47s):
There's a moment in the story. Edgar always loved leaving his little boy where time kind of stops and the war stops. And it's his mom and her mom and her brother just there.

3 (6m 1s):
And then she saw a shadow. And when she raised her eyes, she saw a German soldier with a rifle in the hand looking at her and at her mother, who was breastfeeding and baby. And there was something that they, I guess this kind of strange scene that they affected the soldier. And the soldier basically looked at them, but pretended as if he was looking through them as if he wasn't seeing them, even though he was very close. And then after a few seconds, he just kind of turned his back and left as if it was escaping.

3 (6m 43s):
And, and I guess from a perspective of her five years old, she really, really felt that her family in DC battle was able to win against the Nazis. You know, her baby brother was cute enough, her mother was motherly enough, she was sisterly enough, and the skies were blue enough that the soldier suddenly remembered that, you know, that he had a human side too, and he couldn't take it. She would talk about the soldier as if he was running away. You know, it wasn't as if like he decided to leave

2 (7m 20s):
Recently after all these years, his mom's been dead a little while now. Eckers tried to write about her. And when he got to writing this story about the cabbage patch for the first time, he says he realized just how close they all came to dying. It really had never hit him before the way his mother always told the story. It was so, from a kid's point of view, that there was no sense of danger in it. Even hiding in the field, it seemed like kind of a children's game, like hide and seek, don't make any noise when the soldier appears. He's just a man standing there. So it makes the story as tricky to figure out how to tell. You kinda have to choose between describing, you know, the reality of the war, the menacing reality, and his mother's reality, where she often doesn't understand or notice any of that.

2 (8m 7s):
Ecker, I should say, writes a lot about his family. He did a whole book about his dad, but he says he's always found it impossible to write about his mom for a bunch of reasons, actually, including one big one that has nothing to do with the war at all. Both who she was.

3 (8m 23s):
The thing about my mother is that, that it's like, like God has many names, right? He's a vengeance, full God and merciful God. Then I think that my mom had this kind of thing that, you know, if, if life is a Hollywood movie, she's Maria in Westside story, but she's also a tans in the Avengers Marvel universe. You know, she's,

2 (8m 46s):
She.

3 (8m 48s):
And when you would meet her, it would be like kind of, I don't know, super energy, super compassion, super aggression. He had these kind of things. If you wanted to say something, he really didn't care what anyone would say. But for example, when she wanted to listen to Vagner, you know, in, at the times when in Israel, you were not supposed to listen to Vagner, who was known as an antisemite and who's loved by Nazis, you know, then my mother said, you know, it's my home, and that's the music that I like. And I don't care if Nazis like them. You know, they, they liked apples too, and I still eat apples.

3 (9m 28s):
And she, she didn't care, you know, she, she just did her own thing.

2 (9m 37s):
She was capable of very extreme action that it was hard not to want to leave out some of the most aggressive parts of her. And it was hard for him to get her across in the way he saw her. And it felt very strange that, you know, he had these books and he had this whole life as a writer, but he couldn't figure out how to write about his own mom. And then he started drafting these little fragments, short stories that were just like three or four paragraphs long, tiny stories. And he wrote dozens of them for this museum in Berlin that wanted to collaborate with them. Most of the stories didn't amount to much. They'd start and stop and go nowhere, and crumpled up copies of these incomplete discarded stories ended up as part of the exhibit that they made.

2 (10m 22s):
But the stories that worked, I read them a few months ago and they just killed me. Some of them sharp little shards of stories that together captured something complicated about his mom and Edgar, I decided to try to adapt them here for the radio. So we've done it. And today on our show, it's this American life, by the way, from W B E Z, Chicago Amira Glass. What you're gonna hear is this unusual kind of portrait of his mom told in these quick little stories that Edgar's gonna read, it's eight stories in all plus occasional bits of conversation between him and me. His mom, Orna Carrot was her name, made Israel after World War II when she was 14.

2 (11m 7s):
That's where she lived her life and raised her kids. And the stories. Edgar has changed the name of one little boy who gets beaten up by another boy as he didn't want to embarrass the guy today. Today's wife, Shira and his son live show up in a story, and we'll start with this

3 (11m 24s):
Story number one bedtime story. The very first time my mother told me about her father, I was in kindergarten. I remember lying under the covers in my pajamas when mom sat on the edge of my bed and relayed the story with pride. Soon after the Germans occupied Poland, she told me one of my mother's non-Jewish neighbors began collaborating with the Nazis. He was a short man with black hair and a large nose. As my mother said, he looked like a caricature refugee. And he took advantage of this to pose this one, which allowed him to uncover the hiding places used by his Jewish neighbors and turns them in.

3 (12m 9s):
After the Germans forced all the Jews to move to the war ghetto, mom and her family no longer saw this neighbor, although they continued to hear horrific stories about his informing on people. One morning, my mother and her father walked out of the ghetto with a simple plan. They would buy a loaf of bread on the black market, send individual slices in the ghetto to cover the costs, and keep a couple of pieces for the family. They snuck out and walk down the streets of waro without wearing the yellow stars that all Jews had to wear. This was extremely dangerous.

3 (12m 49s):
But since her father was blonde with blue eyes, and she was fair heard too, they hoped they wouldn't raise any suspicion. Unfortunately, in the crowded town square, they ran into their old neighbor, the informant who didn't think twice before grabbing my grandfather by the shirt collar and yelling, Jews, Jews, my grandfather, tried to break free, but he realize that even if he could, they would instantly be surrounded by passerby who would never let them escape. He looked at my mother and gave her a wink, meant to reassure her, or at least to make sure she knew that even in this terrifying moment, he was thinking only of her.

3 (13m 33s):
Then he grabbed the neighbor by his collar and shouted, Jew, Jew, I caught a Jew. The crowd looked on in confusion at the two men, my tall fur heard grandfather and the short blackhead neighbor who looked according to my mother's description, a bit like me, scratching each other's clothes and screeching Jew. Within seconds, a few people fell on, the neighbor pinned into the ground and kicked him in the head and body until he was dead. And that was your grandfather, declared mom with a smile and stood up. Before leaving my room, she leaned over, kissed my forehead, and said, Sweet dreams.

3 (14m 38s):
Story number two, razor. When I was a child, my mother hugged me all the time. All mother hugs her kids a lot, I know, but my mother hugged me more than a lot. I liked it. But over time, I began to notice that when she touched me, it was always with the back of her hand, never the palm. One evening at bedtime, my mom finished telling me a story and then stroked my face with the back of her hand. Mom, I asked her, how come all the other moms touch like this? I demonstrated a caress with the palm of my hand, and you are the only one who touches like this.

3 (15m 21s):
I demonstrated, again with the back of my hand, my mother smiled and kissed me on the forehead when I was little. She said, I didn't have a home like you do, only an orphanage. And the people there, some of them didn't always want to be good to me. So to be on the safe side, I stuck a piece of gum to the palm of my hand and allowed to razor blade in the gum. She showed me how she stuck the gum to her hand and then inserted an imaginary blade into that invisible gun. When she finished, she held the back of her hand to my face and caressed me gently.

3 (16m 5s):
This she whispered, is how I touched the people I liked. And this she let the palm of her hand hover millimeters from my face without touching. It is how I touch the ones I didn't like so much. The palm of mom's hand was so close to my face that I could feel its wrongs. The blade didn't touch me, but I knew it was there. Palm of the hand, back of the hand. Until that evening, I never knew they were so different.

2 (16m 55s):
Edgar. Yeah, you've told me that, that one of the things you wanna be careful about is you don't want to overemphasize your mom's experience in the war. E Explain that. Explain

3 (17m 5s):
Why. Well, you know, I think that that there was something about my parents that they felt at the moment that they were seeing as Holocaust survivors. They were kind of losing something at this moment. They, they became less of an individual and more of, I dunno, a symbol my parents really, really disliked that I felt for my mom that the moment that she was seen as a Holocaust survivor, it would be a little bit like a wild horse that, eh, it was as if the Nazis had branded her. Hmm. She can't take this thing off her, you know?

3 (17m 45s):
But the moment that she could be this funny redheaded who reads a lot in an obs to dance, and who had happened to be in the Holocaust, this was her victory

2 (17m 57s):
Kar. Okay. So with that in mind, maybe we should still summarize very quickly what happened during the war. Just to give listeners a general sense. I know her family died. Did, did she end up in a concentration camp?

3 (18m 10s):
No, my mom was with her parents in the war ghetto, and later they were transferred to another ghetto, coming to the end of the war. She was totally on her own, and they kind of, you know, running from one hiding place to another, trying to get food from where she could.

2 (18m 31s):
In hiding,

3 (18m 33s):
No, my, my, my mother was never in hiding. It's like the way that she survived was more kind of mingling, you know, with the Polish pretending to be an nj. And my mom told me that during the war, it was much easier, you know, for children, you know, to move around and, and to smuggle things than grownups, you know, because usually wouldn't ask them for idea. And it would be more difficult to differentiate them, especially my mom, that they didn't look very Jewish and that she was not only fluent with Polish as a first language, and not with Yiddish like many other Jews, but she spoke fluent German.

2 (19m 19s):
How did she speak German that young.

3 (19m 22s):
When the war started, the first thing her father did was to teach her German. And he said to her, at the moment, you can communicate with people, it makes it more difficult for them to dehumanize you. He felt that this would be something that could save her life.

2 (19m 42s):
Yeah. You told me a story about her on a bridge. Just tell that story.

3 (19m 45s):
There is more than one, but I I, I'll tell the one that I like, and if you don't like it, I'll tell you another one. Okay.

2 (19m 51s):
Okay.

3 (19m 54s):
So one day when she left the ghetto on some smuggling mission, she took a, her little backpack, you know, she would usually get bread and then put it in the backpack. And as she was walking in the streets of war, so a German soldier grabbed her empty backpack, and when she came to take it from him, you know, he just kind of flew to another soldier and they started kind of taunting her, you know, not not giving her the backpack. And basically, my mom was about nine years old outside of the ghetto, you know, if somebody would catch her, she would be shot on site as a Jew escaping the ghetto.

3 (20m 41s):
And as they were throwing the backpack from one to another, she saw an SS officer. So she ran to the officer and spoke to him politely in Germany, and she said, the, excuse me, Mr. Officer, but can you help me? There are two soldiers here who are disrespect me, and they're not acting the way a soldier should act. And they, she brought the s officer wisdom, and he shouted both those soldiers and they gave her the backpack.

2 (21m 11s):
That series is amazing that she had the presence of mind. That young.

3 (21m 15s):
Yeah. Yeah. I, I think, I think, you know, the way that she say says it, it's kind of like my late grandfather. He trained her and she would quote all kinds of things that my grandfather would teach her when she was in the ghetto. So one of the things that she said, people can't look inside you, so they can never know how hungry you are, but if you are dirty, they'll see it in a second. So, for example, she told me that part of, of her surviving outside of the ghetto was this idea that she, she made a point of being extremely clean. You know, even when there were no means of being clean and, and all, all her life, my mother looked like, you know, somebody on a Vogue Magazine cover, you know, always with makeup and everything in place, is this idea that you can carry yourself and show your confidence.

3 (22m 13s):
And if you do that, then the chances that the word will trample you become slower. Story number three, fabric. Before I was born, my mother worked in advertising. She invented slogans, produced commercials, and bargained with newspapers over the ed prices. She really loved it, but it was a demanding job, and she wanted to devote as much time as possible to her kids. So when I was a baby, she quit and opened the fabric store.

3 (22m 53s):
It was called Fabric Basement, and it was in a basement with no windows. She chose it because of the location across the street and a few doors down from our apartment. It was damp and dark and a little musty, but everything inside the store was decorated in good taste. Mom used to take me with her to work every day and put me on the counter in a bassinet. I grew up listening to her stern pronouncement on questions of cleavage and rivers, and closely watching the eager women who entered the dimly elite basement to search for the perfect fabric and cut for the dress of the dreams.

3 (23m 38s):
When I think about it now, I see my mother hosting heavy rows of fabric around in that narrow, dang, I know it was hard work and didn't pay much, but when I was little, the fabric basement seemed to me like a sort of secret kingdom where my mother reigned supreme. Her subjects came to her with her hopes and dreams, and she, the queen mother, proclaimed which options made them look thinner and which fatter what was flattering and what looked cheap. She spoke with no hesitation or excessive politeness, just as a queen should. And the women kept coming to a little side suite in Ramadhan from all over the country so that my mother could flip through the stacks of Buddha magazine that were piped neatly on the counter, and select the patterns that would accentuate their advantages and consider everything else.

3 (24m 36s):
Not everyone can be beautiful. Mom told me once, but if you make an effort and you don't give up, you can always be less ugly. Story number four, rain day. It happened 11 years ago. My wife, Sheila, my son left and I got up at 7:00 AM Shila was making a tuna, his sandwich for Lev, who had just started first grade Lev. And I stood by the window looking out at the rain, and I explained in a fatherly tone, he would've to stay home and play with me and mom today, instead of going to school because it was raining, Lev received this news joyfully, Sheila, not so much.

3 (25m 32s):
What do you mean it's not going to school? She asks sharply, it's raining. I replied, pointing outside. So Sheila wanted to know, so when it rains, you don't go to school. I explained all she could do was repeat my words. When it rains, you don't go to school. I nodded. Okay, she said, and who made that rule? We had very few rules when I was growing up. We had to be polite to our parents. We had to give a coin to every homeless person we saw in the street. If someone elderly got on the bus, we had to offer them our seat, and we couldn't go to school on rainy days.

3 (26m 17s):
The reason according to my mother was that with audio respect for school, they didn't teach anything important enough to be worse, getting wet form. My mother lost her parents at a very young age, which is why as she explained to my siblings and me, she never learned how to be a mother. Girls learned how to be mothers from their own mothers. She said every girl watches her mother to see how she raises children. But I didn't have a mother for long enough to learn everything, which is why I have to improvise now. So if you see me doing something, you don't think he's that great.

3 (26m 59s):
You should always tell me. I was very pleased to hear my mother says that. And on the few occasions when she imposed a rule or a demands that I found unfair, I always told her, and she really did listen. But as from staying home from school when he trained, I was completely on board with that. Sadly, she's childhood wasn't as magical as mine and left. Had to pay for that. The pool kit grabbed an umbrella and went to school.

3 (27m 41s):
Ira.

2 (27m 42s):
Yes. <unk>

3 (27m 44s):
So I was just wondering, this next story, if it's not, it doesn't feel kind of a bit strange that, that you get like those short pieces and then suddenly a very long one and there is no something before it. I don't know. Like, can are us talking or music or, I don't know. Well,

2 (28m 6s):
This be the thing that goes before it, this thing that you're saying right now,

3 (28m 12s):
I don't know. You, you're the radio guy. If, if you think it'll work,

2 (28m 16s):
I, I do. So, so here is that story,

3 (28m 21s):
Story number five. You never forget to smell at elementary school. There are always fights, and it was just fine with me. It was routine. The fights always followed the same pattern. First cursing them, pushing, then choking and kicking until one of the kids yelled uncle. And then it was over. Everyone would head to the corner store for chocolate milk or Popsicle like nothing had happened. In other words, no one in school was ever afraid of a little fist fighting. But everyone, even the strongest est kids, was afraid to get in a fight with Tamil.

3 (29m 5s):
Tamil was a year ahead of me. He wasn't big and he wasn't very masculine either. But whenever he got into a fight with someone in the schoolyard, all the kids who gathered to watch were overcome by a terrible sense of despair because they knew a fight with Damil never ended with chocolate milk in a Popsicle at the corner store. Best case scenario, Damil won and someone ended up in the emergency room. Worst case he lost, and the fight went on forever. Not a single kid at school ever saw him surrender. Kids much taller than him, who were already shaving, could pin into the ground for hours, hurt him, humiliate him, feed him sand, but Amir would still be cursing and making threats as the fight wore on.

3 (29m 57s):
We all knew that no matter how plainly and painfully the other kid was winning, the second he let go, Tamir would be up in a shot and chasing him down with a rock, a matter road, or whatever weapon he could find. If a teacher or another grownup tried to intervene, they'd get clever. Two bottom line. If anyone had asked me when I was 10 years old, what I was most afraid of in the world, I definitely would've said Tamil. Every Wednesday after school, I would meet my mother at the grocery store and help her carry the bags home.

3 (30m 43s):
She would wait outside the store, dressed like a queen in a dress or 20 suit. She always wore lipsticks that matched the color of her dress or scarf, and the fashionable hat perched on her head like crown. As I walked along, busy, dirty Bilic street beside her, loaded with grocery bags, I thought she looked like a stubborn Cinderella, one who insisted on remaining a princess. Even after the clock struck midnight and everything turned back into a pumpkin. Our apartment building was at the top of a hill, and I always got sweaty and out of brass on the way up with all the groceries.

3 (31m 23s):
Sometimes I ask for a rest stop, which mom would use to smoke a cigarette. One day on our break, we heard a strange how it sounded like cat mixed with a human sub. The second my mother heard this peculiar sound, she tossed a cigarette on the sidewalk and started quickly marching appeal in the direction the noise was coming from. I picked up all the bags of groceries and tried to keep up with her Before I'd even reached our building, I could see the mill standing on the sidewalk waving a stick over his head at his feet. <unk> a boy from my class who lived across the street from us.

3 (32m 6s):
And when Tamil something on the back with the stick, Yaki whimpered, he barely moved. I was completely paralyzed, but not my mother. She matched over quickly on her stilettos. Tamil ignored her and landed another blow on Yi's back. My mother wrapped Amir's arm with one hand and his her with the other try to out of her grip, swearing and blustering. Let me go scream. Let me go right now. I'll fuck you up. You bitch terrified. I looked at my mother, she didn't seem to understand who she was dealing with. I'd seen Tamil stab a teacher with a compass and for a break at the principal, and I knew exactly how this would end.

3 (32m 50s):
My mother would eventually have to let go, and then all hell would break loose. I wanted to say something to warn her, but I didn't know exactly what to tell her. The only good advice I could give her about Amir was not to mess with him, but it was too late for that mom twisted Amir's arm behind his back, which made him drop the stick. Yaki was still on the ground. Just wake you bitch Amir, his, I'll tell you a new one. My mother looked at him coldly and signaled for me to come closer. I moved towards him dragging the grocery bags and stopped a few steps away.

3 (33m 31s):
That seemed close enough, but mom beckoned me to come closer. It's all right. She said in a reassuring voice, don't be afraid he won't bite. I took a few more steps until I was standing within spitting distance of Tamil sweaty face. Leave me alone, he screeched. Let me go. I walk you mom said, still using a soothing voice in a minute. As soon as you listen to what I have to say, Tamil, stop talking and turn to my mother with an expectant look. Do you see this boy? My mother asked, and she held Amir's face close to mine.

3 (34m 15s):
This is my son. Now take a deep sniff. Good. You never forget a smell. Tamir's face was burning an inch away from mine. I was so close that I could see the blood vessels in the whites of his eyes as he gave me a menacing look. And this mom said, turning Tamir's head toward the Yaki who managed to sit up on his knees, is his friend Yaki. As far as I'm concerned, this whole neighborhood is yours except these two. You can heat, bite, stab, steal anything you like, but if you so much touch them.

3 (35m 2s):
If I touch them, then what Tamil said with a chilling smile, you call the cops. I've had the cops called on me 10 times. Oh, the police, God forbid, mom said, they have more important things to worry about. She dragged Tamir over to the big dumpster next to our building. If you touch my son or <unk>, I'll kill you. And then I throw your body into this trash can. She was pulling tamir's hair now, making him look right into the dumpster. And the next morning a truck will come and remove your body with the trash and bury it far, far away.

3 (35m 43s):
And no one will even come looking for you or try to find out what happened. Because no one will miss you As a child. You quickly learn to identify when your parents are making empty threats and when they mean what they say. Mom, stone detached, almost bored, was an ordinary voice, the one I recognize from conversations with the ladies at her fabric shop or people she ran into on the street. And so within seconds, I stopped being scared that Tamil would break free and beat us up and started being scared that he died.

3 (36m 33s):
My mom put her face right up to Tamils and he looked at her, why died. You might be a bully, Amir, but you're not stupid. Now I want you to look at me very closely and tell me whether I'm lying or if it's really going to happen. Tamir kept staring at my mother as if you were hypnotized. And after a pause, he said, almost in a whisper. I promise you'll be scared. I'll never touch them. Very good, said mom and let go of him. I knew you were a smart boy.

3 (37m 13s):
They stood facing each other for some time. A 12 year old boy in a school uniform and a little woman in a red dress and a high heels Mom slowly lifted her hand and caress the mirror. Sweaty hair. Very good. She repeated softly. Now that we clear on everything, you should go home. It'll be dark soon. And it's getting cold.

2 (37m 54s):
Edgar.

3 (37m 55s):
Yes.

2 (37m 56s):
I think all the stories that you've told so far, your mom is the hero. And I wonder, are there stories where felt embarrassed for her? She embarrassed you, or she isn't the hero in that way?

3 (38m 13s):
Well, first of all, I think that she was inherently the hero and fighting for things. But I can't say that, you know, that sometimes she, she would protect her loved ones a little bit too much. You know, I, I remember that when my father was dying from cancer, he had room all alone in the hospital. And my dad was, was a heavy smoker. He died from smoker's, cancer. And he used to smoke in this room, and you're not allowed, allowed to smoke in the hospital. And I remember one time that a woman kind of entered the room and she said, I is somebody smoking here because I can smell smoke?

3 (39m 1s):
And my mom said, no, I, I can't smell anything. And the wo woman left the room and returned after five minutes. And she said, I'm sure that somebody's smoking here. And my mom said, I don't know, like, I don't see anybody smoking. How are you so sure? And the woman left. And then she returned the first time and she said, don't lie to me. I know that there is somebody smoking in this room. And my mom looked at her with eyes, cold eyes and said to her in English, go to hell and kind of slammed the door in their face. And you know, and I, I was there and it was very embarrassing.

3 (39m 42s):
The the woman never opened the door again.

2 (39m 44s):
But it was embarrassing.

3 (39m 46s):
It was very embarrassing. You know, I mean, I mean, I think that the, my mom many times overreacted.

2 (39m 54s):
I get that. But, but I'll just point out that I asked you for a story where she's not the hero and in this story, she's still the hero.

3 (40m 2s):
Yeah, you're right. You're right. But I think that also it's something that had to do with her charisma. That, that, I mean, hero villain, we can argue about it, you know, but she was the main character, you know, he was smacked there in the center. You know, let's say if we would wait for a doctor and there will be like 20 people in the hall, then I would say four outta five times before we get to the doctor, it'll be, they would kind of gather around my mother and she would tell them, I tell you what, you should tell your wife. Come here, sit next to me. I'll explain to you, oh, what they shouldn't eat for dinner.

3 (40m 43s):
But like, she would come become some this instant guru, you know,

2 (40m 48s):
Guru. Yeah.

3 (40m 49s):
She kind of projected this feeling that if you follow her, you get somewhere good.

2 (40m 57s):
Okay. Sorry, Kar, we have to get to the station. Break the ID break now. So

3 (41m 2s):
What, what do, what do you do on ID breaks?

2 (41m 4s):
Well, it, we, it's like a, a minute that we give to the radio stations to like do like their local stuff.

3 (41m 12s):
And what, what do we do during that break?

2 (41m 15s):
Oh, we just, we just hang out here for one minute.

3 (41m 19s):
Cool.

2 (41m 23s):
Okay. Okay. And then, and then do you wanna read the, the wording that gets us into the Id break?

3 (41m 28s):
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, of course. Do it now.

2 (41m 35s):
Yes.

3 (41m 37s):
Okay. I thought you were going to say something. Okay. Sorry. Sorry. I I'm doing it. That's in a minute. From Chicago Public Radio, when our program continues

0 (41m 51s):
Support for this American life comes from Polestar. Polestar is an electric vehicle company driven by sustainable design. Every inch of their vehicles are built to maximize form function, and our future designed to accelerate from zero to 60 in less than 4.2 seconds, with a fully electric all-wheel drive system designed with a sleek exterior using frameless mirrors and a panoramic glass roof. And designed with a carefully crafted cabin utilizing completely sustainable materials. This is an electric vehicle, unlike any other pure performance, pure design Polestar design yours and book a test drive today@polestar.com

2 (42m 30s):
To American guy from my glass. Today's program is this thing that Edgar karat and I concocted that we're calling half-baked stories about my dead mom, where's trying to create a picture of his mother Orna through these fragments of memory, eight very short stories that he's written about her, plus some conversations, some basic facts about his mom's life. Before we go any further, in this hour, after her time in a Polish orphanage and some time in Czechoslovakia in France, she arrived in Israel as a teenager on a ship whose Hebrew name roughly translates to Don't mess with us, or You will not threaten us, which Agar says is the perfect name for the boat that his mother would arrive on at 18 or so.

2 (43m 10s):
She married a professional soccer player and divorced him a few months later. Went to live in France for a year or so. She was an incredible dancer, went danced, competitions, danced once with the singer Shock Burrell, the way she met Edgar's dad. He was drunk and peed on the French embassy, not knowing it was the French Embassy. Cops thought it was a political statement, threw him in a squad car and ran off to get the guys he was with Edgar's dad saw his mom walking down the street, just walking by at that moment and wanted to meet her.

3 (43m 40s):
So he stepped out of the police car and he introduced himself as Inspector Karat. And he asked her if she saw anything that happened. He said, no, no, I just got here. So he said, I need to get your details anyway. And he took her address and the phone number and they, then the police came back and they, they handcuffed my father and got him back in the police car. And my mom went back to a flatmate and she said, you know, that's just my rock. You know, I gave my phone number to a serial killer

2 (44m 11s):
ER's dad. He had a hard time actually convincing her that he was not a criminal of some sort. There were a good match. Both have been children in Poland during the war. Soaker says neither of them had any idea what a normal childhood or a normal home would be.

3 (44m 25s):
So there was something in their friendships that it was half like a married couple, but it was also half like kindergarten children playing together. And, and I think that the kindergarten garden part seemed much more powerful than the grownup part.

2 (44m 44s):
After his mom died, Edgar found that she had kept all the little notes that his father had written her over the years, going back a half century. Most of them were things like, we're outta milk, can you pick some up? Or I'll be home at nine, not eight. She seemed to have saved everyone.

3 (45m 7s):
Story number six, this stuff For my fifth birthday, my father took me to see Bambi. The movie was a lot more real than anything I'd seen. And when the hunters shot and killed Bambi's mom, I stood up on my seat in the movie theater and started shouting tearfully about how wrong this turn of events was and demanded they stop showing the film immediately. My father was slightly embarrassed by my display, why are you crying? My dad asked, what's wrong? They killed Bambi's mom for no reason. I cried, desperate to calm me down. My dad replied, no, no, the is a reason they're going to make a Amish schnitzel out of her.

3 (45m 51s):
And just like said, on the day I turned five, I became a vegetarian. Israel in the early seventies wasn't exactly a nation of vegans. When my mom realized that her pint sized boy was losing weight, she swung into action. You hardly an anything she side after dinner one night. But that's fine if you don't like the food you've tried. I just have to invent something new for you. And that was how the stuff was born. The stuff was made of dried shriveled up soybean flakes that looked a bit like Pet Kiel.

3 (46m 36s):
My mom got a hold of the soy flakes from a vegan rabbi in Jerusalem, to whom she was introduced by the American sales clerk at a natural food store on the outskirts of Ramadhan. The soy flakes had the texture of pigeon droppings and no flavor whatsoever. But when mixed with my mother's culinary charisma as well as tomato paste, garlic, carrots, a secret ingredient or two, and lots of water, they were transformed into the legendary stuff, the ambrosia from which my mom could make meatballs, hamburgers, and even nolane, a delicious vegetarian substitute for born sauce.

3 (47m 25s):
Ru traveled fast about the stuff. One day, a boy know who was at least a year older than me, introduced himself and asked if what he said about my mother was true. Could you really make foods that tasted like hamburger, pizza and rubber all at the same time? I know the yes, if you can set me up with some, I give you five lyrics. The kids said to make sure I understood this was a serious offer. He put out the appropriate bill Green with a portrait of Albert Einstein. It was a bizarre situation, and I wasn't really sure what to say.

3 (48m 6s):
I'll come over someday. The kids suggested, tell your mom we friends or something, or that I'm helping you with your homework, and then I stay for dinner. I still said nothing. Come on, nudge me. Help me out. Seriously. Pizza, hamburger and rubber together. I have to try. Of course it felt that way. It's not every day you have a chance to eat something extraordinary, something that only one unique woman could invent the water white of a neighborhood. My mother Ira, yes.

3 (48m 57s):
At car Ira,

6 (48m 60s):
Yes, at car

3 (49m 1s):
I have this story I gotta tell you, has nothing to do with it, but it just said, I wanna tell you the story, so I'm okay. So it's like, it's like I, I try to write down the story and these stories that about a year before my mother died, I came to visit her and she was in her bed, in her the bedroom. And I was sitting next to her and as she said, could you please close the door? I want to say something private. And it was very weird because it was the only, the two of us in the apartment. So I say, it must be something very, very secretive, you know, if you need to close the door. And I closed the door and I sat down and she said, look, I wanna ask you a favor.

3 (49m 45s):
You know, now that the dad father is gone, and I see that I'm kind of beginning to lose my lucidity little, so if you see that, you know that I'm totally not lucid. And if you have some kinds of sensations that I'm not happy, then you just wait until I'm asleep. And then you take a pillow and put it on my face and you know, just kind of gently wait a little bit. In one minute I'm gone, you know, with all my smoking and stuff it, so I, I just wanna ask you if I, I hope it's okay. And I was kind of shaken. I was a little bit frozen. And then she looked at me and she said, look, it's as if she like, I didn't wanna bother you, but you know, your sister is outro orthodox.

3 (50m 31s):
She can't do that. You know, and your brother, you know, he, he has such a big heart. He's, he's soft. You, you are the strongest, you know, you're the strong guy. And I said to her, mom, I'm not, I'm, I'm not that strong. And then she looked at me and she smiled and she said, you are, but it doesn't matter. You wanna have a cake? And then we got up and she gave me a cake, and we drunk tea and we talked and she smiled and we had like the nicest conversation and we hug. And basically, when I wrote this story down, I remember this story as kind of a very close moment with my mother, but it wasn't filed under my mother asking me to murder her.

3 (51m 20s):
You know, it was basically my mom a little bit afraid, wants me to do something, then she says, I'm unhappy about it. And in a second she doesn't care anymore what's good for her. She'll mented. And she did mented, but she will not put me in a position. She said to me, I wouldn't want you to do something that you, you feel uncomfortable about.

2 (51m 41s):
She said that to you in that conversation.

3 (51m 43s):
Yeah. She said, when I said to her, I can't put a period on your head. And she said, why? And I said, and I said, I can't. And she said, look, I don't want you to do anything that you are uncomfortable about. And this idea was that really that reality could be harsh, violent. I could kill my mom. I could not kill my mom. But there is another level, and this is a level of like two human beings who are close to each other, who can ask each other for everything, who can say no to everything, who you know, who doesn't feel uncomfortable. There is no ego there. So it was for me, like kind of a, some kind of a mirror of a healthy relationship.

3 (52m 29s):
Story number seven, the first angel. You see, I only ever heard this story once my parents had just come home from a wedding and my mother was completely drunk. If she'd had one less drink that night, I probably wouldn't be able to share this story with you. It's little hazing, my imagination. But in the story, my mom is little, it's during the war, and her mother, my grandmother is holding her hand while carrying mom's baby brother. And a few of them raise up the stairs in some building. Mom can hear the footsteps of the people chasing them when they get to the rooftop.

3 (53m 9s):
My grandmother tells mom to run this fast as she can and jump down to the roof of the next building, which is slightly lower. Don't be scared. She says, you can do it. Mom waits expecting her mother to say, and I'll be right behind you. But she just stands there out of breath from the run. When will I see you again? My mother asks. And the mother bends over. So their faces are very close and says, you're going to run as fast as you can and then jump as far as you can. And as soon as you land, you're going to keep running and not stop until you get to daddy.

3 (53m 49s):
After that, you grow up into a woman and you will meet a man and fall in love and start a family with him. And in the end, you grow and die. And right after you die, go up to the first angel you see and tell him, I'm going to see my mom and he'll know because I talked to him before he gets her and he'll bring you to me. This is not where the story ends. After my mom jumped onto the other roof, she didn't run as fast as she could the way her mother had instructed her. Instead, she hid and watched the Nazi soldiers kill her mother and smash her little brother's head against the brick wall.

3 (54m 36s):
When she told me this, I could feel her guilt, but I also sensed how proud she was of her mother, who even in the last moments of her life refused to lie to her daughter. 47 years after she told me this story, my mother died, and the last word she said to me were, I'm going to see my mom.

3 (55m 23s):
Story number eight, A good day. When I was a kid, I absolutely loved eating at restaurants. In those days, in socialist Israel of the 1970s, going out for dinner was such a rare and decadent event that it was impossible not to get excited about it. Once every few months, we drive to Victor's place, a Tel Aviv eatery located next to a junkyard. After dinner, while mom and dad sip Turkish coffee and smoked a cigarette, my brother would take my sister and me on an exciting tour of the junkyard, which we called the car cemetery. We'd stop at each crumpled vehicle and try to guess how it had ended up, sir.

3 (56m 8s):
Crumpled by an elephant shut out of a cannon or just driven too quickly and ramped into a stoplight. One Saturday when I was about six, we went to Victor's place for my mother's birthday. The waiter was an older with a mustache, and he informed us apologetically that due to a kitchen malfunction, the restaurant would not be serving fries. The rest of the family received this news with indifference, but I took it really hard. Instead of a big pile of delicious greasy fries, the to put a dish of white rice on the table, white rice.

3 (56m 47s):
And within seconds, the lavish feast I'd been looking forward to for weeks turned into just another family dinner. My mother sensing my frustration, asked me if everything was all right, nothing was all right. I snapped if I couldn't have fries. The home meal was a waste of time. And this birthday, which was supposed to be fun, was now the worst day of my life. Mom, listen. Impatiently to my complaints. And when I was done, she put the back of her warm hand on my neck and asked me in half a whisper to tell her how many people were sitting in the restaurant. Being a good boy, I methodically counted them all.

3 (57m 30s):
Saturday afternoon was one of the busiest time at Victor's, and beside our table, there were 26 diners. 26, my mom exclaimed with a whistle. That's a lot. Now, could you please tell me what all these people are holding in their hands? Oh, come on. I said, with a green. That's easy. It's a restaurant. They're holding knives and forks. Mom was impressed. 26 people. 26 hungry human beings sitting at the tables, each eating only walks on their own plate. 26 people holding knives and yet not a single one of them is stabbing anyone else.

3 (58m 14s):
She leaned over, planted a soft kiss on my forehead and said, Let's agree that this is a pretty good day.

2 (58m 33s):
Edgar, most of the stories today about his mom were originally written for an exhibit about her called Inside Out at the Jewish Museum in Berlin. It runs till March 19th, if you like these stories today, one of Edgar's books is a book of Memoirish essays like these called Seven Good Years. He also sends out a weekly short story in a free CK newsletter called Alphabet Soup

7 (59m 39s):
Course News.

2 (59m 44s):
Well program is produced today by me and Erin Baker. People who put together today shall include Sean Cole, Michael Kip, stone Nelson, Katherine Rayo, NAIA Raymond, Ryan Rumery, Charlotte Sleeper, Francis Swanson, Christopher. So Matt Tierney, Julie Whitaker and Diane Wu are managing editor Sarah Abara, our senior editors, David Kesman Baum. Our executive editor is Emmanuel Barry. Special thanks today to Gal Bear Nimrod, Kara Lev. Kara for technical help and Chris Crawford, our website, this american life.org, where you can stream our archive of over seven 50 episodes for absolutely free. Also, there's videos, there's lists of favorite programs. There's tons of other stuff. Again, this American life.org, this American Life is delivered to public radio stations by prx, the Public Radio Exchange.

2 (1h 0m 29s):
Thanks as always, to our program's co-founder, Mr. To Maltia, his New Year's resolution this year come up with more zingers. I was having a hard time coming up with my resolution wrapped up right away.

3 (1h 0m 41s):
Who can always be less ugly?

2 (1h 0m 44s):
Back next week with more stories of this American life?