0 (1s):
A quick warning. There are curse words that are un beeped in today's episode of the show. If you prefer a beeped version, you can find that at our website, this american life.org. From WB Z Chicago, it's this American Life. I'm I real class. Why aren't you more mad?

1 (19s):
I think I'm just too tired to be mad. It's like when I think of it, I get exhausted. I get a little desperate. I can feel like a little bit like I feel a little bit like underwater.

0 (29s):
This is my coworker Sean Cole. He's a producer here on the radio show. Ed, the thing that brought him to this state is

1 (36s):
A bed when I go to bed,

0 (37s):
The bed he does not have, he ordered it back in September when he moved to a new apartment.

1 (43s):
This is where I've been sleeping since. I moved in on the floor on my old mattress, awaiting my new bed.

0 (54s):
Just to be clear, the mattress for the new bed arrived right away after you ordered. It is rolled up like a burrito near the window than 20 years. The issue is the bed frame and the headboard. There's still AWOL undelivered absent four months after ordering. And I'm talking to Sean about this because today's program is about all kinds of different sorts of runarounds and he is in the middle of a sort of classic one. One. Lots of us have experienced. For the record, the bed that he ordered is a queen size bed from the Casper online store as a podcast producer, he told me he felt like a living cliche, ordering a product that is advertised on so many podcasts. But he says he really liked the bed. It's got an angled, cushioned headboard to lean against when you're reading at night.

0 (1m 38s):
Sean is somebody who's never really fixed up a place with nice furniture and he was finally getting round to it and he was excited. And at first the delay was a completely excusable kind of thing. The bed was back ordered, which you know happens with furniture. We're supposed to be ready for delivery on November 18th, but the 18th of November comes 18th of November goes. It does not show up. John reaches out to Casper.

1 (2m 3s):
They said, you'll hear from our delivery partner. Okay, get a text from the delivery partner. This company I'd never heard of called Rxo. Rxo texts me and says, hi, we have scheduled your delivery for September 26th. And I'm like, it hasn't been September 26th for like two months.

0 (2m 25s):
Sean calls Rxo and reschedules the delivery Saturday this time for a date. This in the future, not the past, but this is the first of what will be many texts and communications from Rxo that make no sense at all. The new delivery date is in three weeks. The day finally arrives.

1 (2m 41s):
I get up, strip the mattress, pull it off of the floor, set it up so it'll make it easier for them to take away.

0 (2m 49s):
So it's leaning against which wall,

1 (2m 50s):
It was leaning against the wall in the office against my books. Wait for them to come

0 (2m 55s):
Around 10 gets text telling him his bed will not be delivered. He needs to reschedule. He calls to find out

1 (3m 1s):
Why. And they said, oh yeah, no, no, we can't bring it to you because you asked for the Holloway service to take away your old mattress.

0 (3m 10s):
Well, couldn't this truck still drop off your thing? Even if they weren't gonna haul away the old mattress,

1 (3m 16s):
Right? Yeah, good question. Like why does not being able to take something away prevent you from bringing me something?

0 (3m 29s):
The delivery is rescheduled for Monday. A few days later, Monday comes, they text saying it's gonna be Tuesday. No explanation why. An hour and a half after that they text again saying that now it won't be delivered Tuesday.

1 (3m 42s):
And so I call them and I'm like, what's the deal? And they go, oh, there's been a truck breakdown. And I was like, oh, so when can it come now? And they go, oh, hang on a second. And they look at their notes or whatever and they go, oh no, no wait, you are good for tomorrow. And I was like, I am good for tomorrow. They're like, yeah, because it's already been added to the route. And I'm like, is there a truck breakdown? Like what? You know, like was that just something you said like, and I still dunno the answer to that.

0 (4m 14s):
I have to say this is one of the most annoying things about this kind of runaround. At every stage you get answers that leave you sort of squinting and scratching your head trying to understand them. Every explanation is a non explanation.

1 (4m 29s):
So then Tuesday I get up again. I strip the bed, I pick the mattress up off the floor, I lean it up against the wall and then I get a text saying, you're delivered. Delivery is confirmed for Thursday.

0 (4m 50s):
This time, any calls, there's no explanation at all. Just an apology. Thursday comes

1 (4m 56s):
And on Thursday I get up. I do not strip the bed, nor do I pull the mattress off the floor. Cause beginning to learn,

0 (5m 7s):
Of course it doesn't come.

1 (5m 10s):
And I call them and I'm like, what's going on? And they go, oh, there's a hard hold on this order. And I'm like, why is there a hard hold? And they go, oh, there was a duplicate on the order. Docket two bed frames and headboards here that are scheduled for shipment for the same person.

0 (5m 31s):
They thought it might be a mistake and they didn't wanna ship until they knew beds. Sean wonders, why didn't they just contact him and ask if he ordered two beds? And also mistake, has this been on his paperwork from the start?

1 (5m 43s):
Then that's always been the case, right? Like why am I only finding out about this now? And that means like it was never gonna come or something.

0 (5m 51s):
And and are you wondering, is this even true that there's a problem in the paperwork?

1 (5m 55s):
Well, no, because it seems so specific. Like why would you make up something like that? Unless it's just like, I don't know, I don't know. I guess the answer is I don't know. And it's maddening.

0 (6m 8s):
Then after thinking they had to deliver two beds to Sean. They admitted they didn't have any. They did a week on doc search, finally showed up with a bed, but it was the wrong size, which put Sean Beckett Square one early on, Sean started to keep a record of all these interactions with Rxo and Casper, and at this point it is 18 pages long. If this document were a poem, what would it be called?

1 (6m 34s):
It would be called

0 (6m 35s):
Sean's. A published poet. By the way,

1 (6m 39s):
How do you sleep?

0 (6m 43s):
We reach out to Rxl and Casper, the bed company to find out how they do sleep at night given their treatment of Sean Cole. The answer was refreshingly honest. Casper's, VP of operations emailed admitting yeah, the last few years because global supply chains have been so crazy. Casper has experienced a myriad of disruptions. He did say that only a tiny portion of their shipping is done with Rxo and they're trying to work with Rxo to improve things. 90% of their customers, he said rate their experience with Rxo favorably, meaning 10% do not. Sean is one in 10 pretty bad odds if you ask me. My take is that they never actually had a bed for him.

0 (7m 23s):
Sean feels like he's come this far. He doesn't wanna start over with a different company, a runaround. It's different people, different ways.

1 (7m 32s):
I'm the perfect person to give the runaround too, because I am breeder naturally indisposed to flipping out, you know, demanding a result. You're

0 (7m 48s):
Saying you wouldn't

1 (7m 48s):
Do these things. I would not do these things. I'm, I'm the person who you wanna give the runaround to because like, I'm not gonna like reach through the phone and try to strangle you like, like even when I freak out, I'm polite about it.

0 (8m 3s):
True. Sean can get little worked up talking to me about all this, but the harshest he ever got with Casper or Rxo is a strongly worded email. It sounds like it was written by an English gentleman in the year 1820 quote. This is beyond unacceptable. Please let me know what Casper intends to do to rectify this situation. Yours sincerely, A runaround where you're floating that weird information limbo where you can't tell what the truth is, where you don't get what you want in a contest of wills with some other person or entity and it goes on and on and on. It just doesn't end. It tests you. It shows you who you are today on our program. Some very different kinds of runarounds and some very different reactions to them from people who are being pushed to their very limits.

0 (8m 46s):
Stay with us. I like the show. 48 hours except a lot more hours. So this first story is about somebody who, like Sean is being given the runaround, but the runaround is about something much more consequential to her life than a bed frame and the woman it's happening to over and over. She has to decide whether to cut her glasses and walk away or stay with it and fight her way through. Reporter Brenna Smith who first wrote about this for the news site, the Baltimore banner explains

3 (9m 25s):
Even before this whole thing began, Renee's life involved a lot of running around. She's busy, got three kids, work stays and nights as a home health aid when money's tight. She also drives for DoorDash and Instacart. She spends a lot of time in her car, like a lot of busy people. But unlike a lot of busy people, Renee told me and my producer Chris, she usually chooses the slowest possible route to her next destination because I'm

4 (9m 53s):
Scared of beltways. I mean I don't do belt ways, I take the long way everywhere.

5 (9m 58s):
What do you mean you're scared of beltway?

4 (10m 0s):
I'm just scared of all the traffic. Like so many different lanes with cars. My, I have real bad anxiety. My nerves are bad. So I think it's just like so many different lanes with just so many cars flying past you. So I'd just prefer not to. I'd rather go on a side roads.

5 (10m 16s):
Is there like a Renee speed limit like above this?

4 (10m 20s):
Yeah, I don't like to go any past like 45.

3 (10m 22s):
Renee's commitment to the local roads just outside of Baltimore where she lives will sometimes add 20, 30, even 40 minutes to her trips. So that's Renee. The story I wanna tell you started last spring when something went wrong with Renee's Snap benefits, her food stamps, her monthly money stopped appearing on her benefits card. Fixing this. Took five or six trips to the social services office, filling out tons of paperwork and three months of waiting. This isn't unusual for her or anyone on benefits. Finally a kind woman at the front desk at social services looked into her case and found some glitch in the system. She fixed it for Renee and the next morning everything was made right.

3 (11m 5s):
All three months of missed benefits showed up at once. She now had almost $3,000 on her card, the highest she'd ever had. Renee felt a wave of relief, but a couple weeks later, Renee went online to check the bounce on her card

4 (11m 20s):
And everything was gone except $66. That's all I can really remember. I thought it was a mistake. I thought, well let me get off the app and I cleared it out and tried it again. Same thing.

3 (11m 33s):
She called the number on the back of the card to make sure and found out again $66. First she was just confused. Then she noticed large transactions at stores. She's never visited near Washington DC where she never goes cuz Beltways, she realized someone had somehow stolen her snap money, the thousands of dollars she'd just gotten back on her card was gone in one afternoon and this is where her runaround began. I've been reporting on social services like Snap and Maryland and I've seen snap fraud happening a lot. Benefits theft skyrocketed from $90,000 in 2021 to over a million and a half dollars in 2022.

3 (12m 19s):
Snap route is actually up across the US The night it happened to Renee, she couldn't stop crying and couldn't sleep. This is money she used to buy food for her kids. Without it she'd have to pick up extra jobs, get behind on rent. So the next morning she marched into the same government building. She'd been in so many times before to fix the problem in person. Maybe she'd get the nice lady again.

4 (12m 44s):
I went down to the social services and the same lady that fixed the food stamps was like, yeah, remember I just fixed them for you and all the money that you know was gonna come on your card. She was almost in tears. She said, I feel so bad for you because it's so much. She said, I've never seen that much be taken at once. She said, but I can tell you now they're not gonna, they're not gonna refund anything.

3 (13m 9s):
The woman told Renee, because the stolen snap money is actually federal money. Marilyn couldn't pay her back. It was a statewide policy.

4 (13m 17s):
She said, there's nothing we, she said, I really wish we could help you. And then of course everybody in the hole, cuz you know you're sitting there with all these people and the window, everybody can hear you talk cuz you're only walking a couple steps to the window and you know you got the whole room looking at you at one time. So I felt so stupid. I'm crying and I don't, I don't like crying in front of people. I tried to hold my emotions back and it was hard that day. I just couldn't hold it back.

3 (13m 48s):
I first met Renee on this Facebook group for parents in Maryland who used benefits like Snap. There were lots of parents, mostly moms writing in saying they had had their benefits stolen and there was Renee posting all the time about what had happened to her and really trying to help everyone else. Everyone please read this. She wrote, if we all come together and report this to the police and social services, then something may be done. There were lots of moms who had tried to get social services to refund them. No luck. They'd also filed reports with their local police. Nothing. I talked to dozens of them and Renee was in a category of her own.

3 (14m 30s):
She did far more than anyone else. When I got her on the phone back then she'd been playing phone and email tag for days bouncing between every authority figure. She could find the office of the Inspector General for Maryland Social Services, the U S D A in dc, which funds snap, even the Maryland legislature where she called delegate after delegate. But it all got her nowhere.

6 (14m 54s):
I just spoke to delegate Robin Grammar, I think his name is yesterday. Okay. And he told me that unfortunately no matter what I do, he said they're not gonna refund the money.

3 (15m 6s):
The police weren't any help either. The cop assigned to her case Officer Timothy Valis would sometimes take days to answer her texts and didn't seem to be doing anything. He was a rookie who hadn't graduated the academy yet. So Renee did something I haven't seen anyone else do. She decided to investigate her own case. She was going to find the people who took her snap money. One thing about Renee, she loves true crime shows like 48 hours. So she knew how important the first couple days are in any investigation.

3 (15m 46s):
She was worried time was slipping away. So she went to the fact she had the snap benefits app had given her the details for every fraudulent transaction, all seven of them. They included a dollar amount, a date in the name of each store. There had been big purchases, some over $500. Renee thought that maybe those stores could rewind their security footage to the times of those transactions and maybe identify the thieves. She texts all of this to Officer Valis.

6 (16m 16s):
I said, I looked at my food stamps app on my phone and wanted to let you know I found all the store numbers that these people used my phone stamp card. I sent him the picture of all that and he said, okay, thank you. And

3 (16m 28s):
Then I said, she suggested the please contact the stores, but nothing happened.

6 (16m 32s):
So I called the stores myself.

3 (16m 35s):
Most of the stores wouldn't help her. They don't show surveillance footage to customers only please. But one manager at an international market agreed to

6 (16m 44s):
Check and they pulled the video of the people that did it. Oh. So she sent me 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 pictures and one four second video of them just driving away.

3 (16m 58s):
And all of a sudden Renee was looking at the faces of the people who stole from her security footage from a Sunday and early August. It looked to be during the day, was bright out, the photo was grainy, but she could make out a middle-aged man exiting the store. Then in a different photo, a woman with a low bun and a blue striped skirt with a shopping cart

6 (17m 20s):
And you see in the back of the cart, the people that stole it, they bought cases and cases of baby formula. They didn't buy groceries. These, these people bought cases of baby formula. It's on the picture,

3 (17m 34s):
$1,200 a baby formula, which seems weird, but it makes sense if you think about it. Formula is a very efficient way to convert food stamps into cash. It's in every grocery store. It doesn't go bad quickly like meat. It's dense so you can pack a lot of it into your car. And in the summer of 2022 there was a shortage of it. Renee had found the suspects and the getaway car. The footage showed them driving off in a Toyota minivan, but she still had no idea how to find out their names, their identities, and even after squinting every which way at the photos of the license plate, she still couldn't make out what it was.

6 (18m 16s):
If you look at it from a certain way, you could see a little better. But then once you really start to it, it's confusing. It's really hard to, so I just kind of took that and sent that to the officers.

3 (18m 27s):
When Renee texted all this to Officer Valis, he didn't say much. Just quote, I updated the report with the information you've given me. He also said he'd referred her case to the department's investigative and cyber crime units. Then he stopped responding for weeks.

6 (18m 45s):
So now he's not answering any of my texts asking, you know, if he has found anything else out. Nothing. He has not responded to you since August 13th. Nothing. No answer. I'm just like, I just feel like people don't, don't really care because it's not someone close to them that has needed to, and this is not like a hundred dollars. I wouldn't probably even call if it was something small. This is under $3,000 and this is not for me. This is for my children are taken from my kids.

3 (19m 16s):
Then in late August, Renee receives a letter from social services. It says they looked into her case, did not find a system error or that the card was used fraudulently. There would be no refund. Other moms on the Facebook group had gotten the same letter and a lot of them had given up at that point. But Renee reads the fine print. She noticed that the bottom of the letter offered her the chance to appeal this finding before a judge with evidence.

6 (19m 45s):
I think it's called like some kind of fair hearing or something from social services. Okay. And I gotta prove that it wasn't me, even though it's clearly these people. I have to prove that and try to fight that in, you know, court or wherever.

3 (20m 1s):
So she was going to file an appeal. It was a lot of money and some part of her just wanted to prove that this thing had actually happened to her. That she had been robbed. All she had was grainy footage from one of the stores. She wanted a stronger case. If she could get better quality security footage from another store, maybe she could identify the license plate, which could lead you to the criminals she wanted to go in person. But again, these stores were near Washington DC Beltway, an interstate highway and another beltway away and her car wasn't in great shape. And so,

7 (20m 39s):
Okay, we're recording. Let's see. Okay, we're gonna be there at 10 36. Okay.

3 (20m 46s):
And that's how I wound up picking up Renee at a red brick row house outside Baltimore on a muggy August day to drive to dc. We managed to find a time for this after Renee performed some serious scheduling gymnastics, got a babysitter, moved around her hectic work schedule. I recognized her from Facebook, a white lady in her thirties with a round face and big green eyes

7 (21m 10s):
And

3 (21m 10s):
I can't write. Renee was so competent on the phone. But today faced with the prospect of doing in-person detective work. She's nervous. Again,

7 (21m 18s):
I don't need anything. Oh no, I don't think you need to take anything. Like I think you just need to come in and like go. Yeah, like just like explain who you are and why you're there. Okay.

3 (21m 27s):
We stopped right outside DC a cvs. Renee had already called the store and talked to a guy named Keith, a manager. We walk in to find him

7 (21m 39s):
Last name. Oh, I spoke to you, Keith. Oh, Keith. Oh, well your manager too. Oh, okay. I'm the one that spoke to you about the baby formula of that Ms Stolen. Yeah. Oh,

3 (21m 49s):
They tell Renee what everyone else did. They're only allowed to show security footage to law enforcement, but they had, there is a police station a couple blocks away.

7 (21m 60s):
So if I went there, yeah, you go in there. They come right over here and not that right over here. So if they come back here, they do. Which they probably won't, but then you'll be able to show them. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay.

3 (22m 11s):
Within minutes we're standing outside the police department for the small town of seat Pleasant Maryland. Telling Renee's story, she explains that she had had her food stamps stolen. One of the cops has a hard time understanding how this crime had gone down. Specifically how the thieves got their own card

7 (22m 29s):
Because the police in my area, what do they copy it there? That's amazing. They're saying skim it. He had my card. Even though I have my card, they had a card. Like we have, they have to have you a pin number too. Yeah, he said skim when you scan, when you skim, they punch into pins.

3 (22m 42s):
A skimmer is a device that these put over card scanners. It looks just like a card scanner. So you can't tell, you can capture your card information, including your pin. Most E P T cards, the benefits cards, people on assistance like Renee used to buy food. They don't have the encrypted chips that most credit and debit cards do. Cards with chips are harder to skim. On top of that, you E B T cards don't have fraud detection services. You know, like those text messages you get about suspicious credit card transactions, text one if it was you and if not, they'll cancel the transaction. And even with debit cards, you can usually call your bank and tell them that I was stolen from yesterday and you could get your money back.

3 (23m 25s):
Renee z PT card didn't have any of that. All of this has turned snap recipients into easy marks. Even people like Renee who never lets her card out of her sight, we try to explain all of this to the officer who listens to Renee's story. So we have footage

7 (23m 41s):
From the,

3 (23m 43s):
The officer calls over another cop. Officer Bowers, the supervisor, tells him to get the footage from c s for us. Bowers hops into his patrol car and we get back into my car to follow him. Then as we're driving, we notice Bower's car has its lights flashing. Yep. I

7 (24m 2s):
Don't know what these lights mean. He's serious about his business. Yeah, it's crazy. We have a freaking police escort to a cvs. What? Yeah, if this don't make a news, Stacey, we're not playing look in front of us, directing us with his lights on.

3 (24m 19s):
When we get there, Bowers talks to the CVS employee who shows him to the back room. We wait out front in the store for about 15 or 20 minutes. Then Officer Bowers and the CVS employee re-emerge.

7 (24m 32s):
Oh, they're out. Yeah. One, yeah,

3 (24m 38s):
Bowers told us it was the same woman, the one in a low bun, in a blue striped skirt buying hundreds of dollars of baby formula.

7 (24m 46s):
Okay. They, they hit up all the stores then.

8 (24m 48s):
Okay. Yep. Gimme

7 (24m 50s):
One second. Are we able to get the

3 (24m 51s):
Video? Officer Bowers shows us the security footage, which he recorded on his phone. We see the woman getting into the same silver minivan after. Okay.

8 (25m 1s):
We do have a vehicle as a Toyota

7 (25m 3s):
Sienna, something like that. Yeah, same one from the other.

8 (25m 6s):
Yeah. So I think this is the West Virginia tag,

3 (25m 9s):
The license plate, the thing that could lead them to the criminals. It's blurry here too. But Bower says he'd used some fancy police tool to try to figure it out. Finally, the runaround had landed Renee somewhere. She'd found someone in a position of authority actually willing to help her. A few days later, officer Bowers calls me, you won't let me record her conference, Renee in. So I have to tell her afterward what he said. Okay.

6 (25m 43s):
Hey Renee. Hi.

3 (25m 45s):
I tell her that Bower said he thinks he found a match for the license plate, but he couldn't hand that information over to her.

6 (25m 52s):
His supervisor will no longer let him work on the case. Wow. Yeah, because Baltimore County already has an investigation and that it should only be done to Baltimore County now. Oh my God.

3 (26m 6s):
And so Renee's case landed back in the hands of the cop who wasn't answering her texts or calls. You weren't helping you. Renee understood. Bowers was just following his boss's orders. But still

6 (26m 17s):
It feels like even though it wasn't his fault, it's like all these other people let me down. So when we went there and they actually helped us, I was so excited. I was so excited. I was thinking of Haley, he was gonna call and we're gonna have, you know, some news saying that they caught these people or you know, something, just something. And then now he's doing the same just like every other one did. Right. I don't know what to think anymore. I mean, I could could try to call Officer Valis, but if he's not answering my text, he's not gonna answer the calls either. I have no idea. Now I can all, I can contact the guy from the oig. He was really nice, but nobody's saying anything.

6 (26m 57s):
Right. Just gotta keeping me in the dark like, you know. I don't know, it's just weird to me. Like this happened to me. I am not some kind of, you know, the suspect. I'm the victim that this happened to. Right. I'm just tired of it. I'm tired of it. I'm so sorry, Renee. It's just frustrating. You know, you get in touch with all these people, they promise to keep you updated, promise to call you back with nothing. It makes you think like, why did I even ask for the help in the first place? So, I mean, I don't know what else to do.

6 (27m 38s):
I've done everything I could. I, there's nothing else for me to do. Yeah.

3 (27m 53s):
While she was trying to run down this $3,000, there was so much else going on in her life. There always is. In the last couple of months, a cracked tooth from stress, busted brakes on her minivan. She had to give away her dog. They couldn't afford it. One day her carbon monoxide alarm randomly went off and she had to call the fire department to sort it out. But surprisingly, the day after I broke the news to her about Bowers, she managed to get in touch with the cop who had been ghosting her for weeks. Remember Officer Ballas, the Baltimore County cop, who this whole time was supposed to be looking into her case, she'd reached him in a very kind of private detective sort of way.

6 (28m 37s):
So yesterday I kept calling Officer Val, his phone is still going right to voicemail. I said, this is weird. Why is it a cell phone from work? Why would it be off all the time? And then finally I said, you know what, let me, something told me try from a different phone. So do you know I called from my son's phone and it rang. I said, oh my God, I think he blocked my number. Oh. And I was so furious when I got in touch with him, he's all like, hello? And I'm like, hi Officer Valis. He's like, who's this? I said, this is Renee. I said, you're the one handling my case. I said, I'm wondering if like you blocked my number and it made me sound like a creep.

6 (29m 19s):
But I was so mad. And I'm like, I have been trying to contact you. And he's then once I mentioned about being blocked, he like started being super nice to me. And I said that you guys should be getting this information. Not me. Not me. And the news reporter. We have been getting it. We went to the stores to get the footage, nobody else. And then he started, you know, he was like, you try to stay strong and we're trying. And he gave me a number to another like crime stopper or something like that. He said, they will get on this more than anybody else. Like what do you mean they will get on this you guys, if you can't leave your area, then you're patrolling. Then somebody should be going there and doing this.

6 (29m 60s):
Then he also tells me that, yeah, I'm pretty sure I thought you could open another case in another area. I said, well, the other guys told me that his boss said something different and he don't think, this is what I mean about the,

3 (30m 22s):
We reached out to the Baltimore County Police Department. They said Officer Valis did block Renee's number for a brief period of time. But they also said he was working on her case. And after Renee got through to Valis, he did start updating her more. He told her police found the skimmer that they think was used to steal her card number. But then in November, Renee lost the appeal she had filed. The judge complimented Renee's tenacity saying she'd quote single-handedly in capably investigated the crime and identified suspects. But the judge also said that there's nothing in Maryland law that requires social services to repay stolen snap funds.

3 (31m 4s):
And so Renee wasn't gonna get her money back, but she was still looking for some way. And an attorney who volunteered to help her with her case said, there is a way you can appeal the appeal. Renee thought it over.

4 (31m 19s):
She's like, it's up to you. Do you wanna do another appeal? And I'm like, no. I said, what's the purpose like just to be let down over and over by different judges that are saying, I'm sorry. But then on the other hand, it's like, I already came this far. Why not try to have another appeal and do it again? My mind just goes back and forth like, should I, shouldn't I? Should I or shouldn't I

3 (31m 41s):
Answer? I should. She filed a second appeal. There is actually one other way. This whole thing could be fixed. Congress could do something and kind of amazingly they sort of have the huge spending. Bill Congress passed last month requires states to reimburse people who have had their snap benefits stolen. It's not gonna help Renee though. It only applies to thefts since October. Hers was in August. Also, it ends in 2024. So it's a temporary fix. But Renee's story did get noticed. She actually testified before the state senate and later her congressman who had been following this issue, introduced a bill that would fix things in a permanent way.

3 (32m 30s):
It has bipartisan support and looks like it might actually go somewhere. The runaround, it's a thing that can happen to you, but it can also be a strategy. You just stay in it until someone notices and does something.

0 (32m 56s):
Brenna Smith, she's an investigative reporter with the Baltimore banner where a version of her story first appeared. The story was produced by Chris Benderev Coming up a nine-year-old on a runaround that his dad does not understand. That's in a minute. In Chicago Public Radio. When our program continues, it's this American life Mira Glass. Today's program, the runaround stories of all kinds of runarounds that people find themselves trapped in, test who they are and other sorts of runarounds as well. We've arrived at act two of our program Act two Strange Loop.

0 (33m 38s):
So we now turn to a different kind of runaround and the person you're gonna hear about next, nobody is giving him the runaround. He's just running around for reasons that are mysterious, even to those who are closest to him. David Kestenbaum talked to him about it. The guy doing this, running around in circles. He's nine years old and I know him because I live with him. My son, max started doing this early in the pandemic. Max was one of those kids where virtual school was really impossible. All those faces and little boxes on the screen, he just could not focus or stay with it. His handwriting was crazy. He sometimes struggled to read his own name. At some point we realized he didn't know the months of the year he had big hills to climb.

0 (34m 22s):
I worried one day he hit on this idea of running Loops around the block. We live on a weird lollipop of a street. So these were actual loops. He was running around and around. The neighbors told us he was sometimes the only other person they would see during the day. One time an older man came out and give him cookies. The running around seemed to settle his mind in a way I did not fully understand. Virtual school was tears and frustration, but running these loops reset him somehow. It was more than just getting exercise. I could see him talking to himself as he went by, but I had no idea what he was saying. He's been doing it for years now. Sometimes several times a day I'm going for a run around the block.

0 (35m 5s):
Sound of door closing and then he'll be gone sometimes for 20 minutes. He's done it first thing in the morning, right outta bed when it's still dark. He does it in the rain. Annoyingly never with a raincoat. I piled towels by the door. He'll change clothes, but then an hour later go out again. He did it when it was minus 22 wind chill. I wanted to eavesdrop on one of these runs to hear what he was saying. Something going on out there was helping him. I wanted to understand his brain, so I had this idea of pinning a small microphone on him. He was not into it. Max wanna wear this microphone when you run around the block max next time me Max, I only want you to do this if you want to Max not now and so on, but I know how to work a reluctant source.

0 (35m 56s):
I got him after a run one evening. It was dark and raining. He agreed to a brief interview.

3 (36m 2s):
I know anything about running, don't ask me any more questions.

0 (36m 7s):
It's not an interrogation.

3 (36m 9s):
Get his tied to a metal chair.

0 (36m 14s):
You're just holding your hands behind your back as if you're tied to a metal chair.

3 (36m 18s):
It counts.

0 (36m 20s):
Do you remember the joke you told me the other day about adhd? What does ADHD stand for?

3 (36m 25s):
Attention deficit. Hey Donuts.

0 (36m 29s):
Do you ever feel like that in your head?

3 (36m 32s):
Yeah. Like distracted while doing something

0 (36m 38s):
And when you're running, does that ever happen?

3 (36m 41s):
No. I'm focused on my running and my story. That's it.

0 (36m 47s):
A story. That's what's going on in his head out there, going around and around. He's telling himself a story. That's what the running unleashed.

3 (36m 56s):
I can remember the first story I ever had. It's pretty much just a little chicken, a little duck, and they've literally friends and they waddled around.

0 (37m 10s):
The stories have changed as he's gotten older. Did you have a story in your head just now?

3 (37m 14s):
Yeah. There was this big red monster, like imagine a human then imagine him completely ash, like just

0 (37m 27s):
Ash. It was interesting to hear this. It has an attention to detail that is sometimes not present in other parts of his life.

3 (37m 35s):
Then imagine a little red teens coming off him. He's like a fire person. His hair is on fire. His eyes are red, like fired.

0 (37m 44s):
He told me another one that was like pieces of the world had lodged in his head and recombined. This one violated multiple copyrights. The Avengers were in it, but then also Spaceman spiff from Calvin and Hobbs and also somehow

3 (37m 58s):
I was pretending to to be of Arthur of Dead, I think. Yeah. Arthur

0 (38m 6s):
Ted from the Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy. What do you think it is about? About running in a story that is calming?

3 (38m 15s):
I don't know. I have no idea.

0 (38m 18s):
Are you thinking about a story like all day long? Kind of

3 (38m 22s):
All day? I run and wander during recess and the thing and I usually, sometimes I play with my friends and sometimes I wander around thinking about it, but yeah.

0 (38m 35s):
Wow. It's like all day long. Yep. That's kind of amazing. I didn't know that. Could you think of the story if you were just staying in the house?

3 (38m 46s):
Yeah, I could, but it's harder. I could think of one, but it's harder.

0 (38m 52s):
Why do you think it's easier when you're running around the block?

3 (38m 55s):
Oh, I don't know because me, cuz I'm moving. I know why. That's been a strange thing where if I'm moving, it's completely funny. I have to move to see it, but if I'm standing still, it's really hard.

0 (39m 10s):
It's funny that you're just running in circles, you know?

3 (39m 13s):
Yeah.

0 (39m 15s):
Like you're not going anywhere.

3 (39m 17s):
Well, in my head I am in my head I am that smart. You,

0 (39m 30s):
What'd you say

3 (39m 31s):
Outsmarted You Daddy,

0 (39m 39s):
The philosopher at Thomas Nagle once wrote an essay titled, what Is It Like To Be A Bat? Apparently he had bats in his house and he wondered if it was possible to truly know what it was like to be a bat, to have webbing on your arms to perceive the world with sonar, to hang upside down in the attic. His answer was no. You could not know the mind of such a creature.

3 (40m 2s):
Okay. Should we go? Yeah, go. Okay, bye.

0 (40m 5s):
Max did finally agree to let me put a mic on him while he ran around the block. It was like I was right there with him,

3 (40m 14s):
So he slash

0 (40m 15s):
He was battling some invisible monster.

3 (40m 21s):
I'll be fine.

0 (40m 23s):
I'll be fine. I'll be fine. He says those

3 (40m 25s):
Cuts are deep.

0 (40m 26s):
Those cuts are deep. It's

3 (40m 28s):
Fine.

0 (40m 29s):
It's fine. You're right, max. It is. David Kestenbaum is our show's Senior Editor Act three Americans Most Wanted, so we now turn to criminals trying to give the runaround to the police and in this case, choosing a route that you see now and then in the movies they escape to Mexico, that's right across the border to start a new life in a country where they think that they're gonna be safe.

0 (41m 13s):
So many people do this. In fact, the numbers on the rise that Mexican police formed a special elite unit only mandate is to catch these fugitives. The unit's based in Baja, California, just south of San Diego that work with tips they get from the FBI and US Marshals. They are called the gringo hunters. Kevin Si is a reporter for the Washington Post. He hung out with them as they ran around trying to snag fugitives.

9 (41m 37s):
The cops in this special unit find the gringo everywhere in beach resorts at a nightclub called Papas and Beer in cars with sex workers in Carl's, Jr. Parking lots. Some had undergone plastic surgery and acquired new names they couldn't pronounce. Some were found dead. They were former Playboy models. Amateur surfers, ex-navy officers. Most of them are alleged serious criminals, rapists, pedophiles, murderers. The cops have become used to the way American fugitives saunter across the border expecting that they won't be found. Here's Moes. He's the head of the unit when I was there. He's proud of his work, but he gets that. It can be kind of funny sometimes.

10 (42m 23s):
There's

11 (42m 24s):
Many Americans I think that like in the cartoons in the movies and Mexico, yeah, everybody there has boots and hat and he was on a horse or I don't know, donkey. So then they think I can go and hide there and I mean they, when they come here to Mexico and they see no, this is, here's a city. I mean it's, it's a big city and it's even better and the police will never find me and when they least expect it, boom. There we are right in front of them.

9 (42m 58s):
Has been doing the job for 12 years, hanging out with him. He's like an encyclopedia of gringo fugitives. A lot of the gringos he tells me are white guys who think they can make a go of hiding on the coast, blending in with tourists, but they can't

11 (43m 19s):
The way they dress, the way they walk, the way they express themselves is totally different. The T-shirts are different. If they're wearing shorts, the shorts are different, totally different.

9 (43m 38s):
Even the shoes are totally different. One officer told me the Americans wear flip flops that are one size too big, usually with socks. Then they're the Mexican American fugitives who are still such obvious gringos to Moises and the other cops. They're born in the us they have family in Mexico, but they can never totally blend in either. Something about them is eventually going to betray them as American. That's the kind of fugitive they were chasing when I was with them. A Mexican American guy named Damien Salinas, he's 20 years old from Fresno, California. Back in 2020, Salinas had allegedly murdered another man at the scene of a traffic accident. The killing was shocking, seemingly unprovoked, a gunshot at point, blank range.

9 (44m 22s):
The victim was a 36 year old mechanic named Joshua Tao. He was like a father to his nieces and nephews. His sister said right before he was shot, witnesses said he shook the murderer's hand trying to calm tempers. After the shooting, Salinas vanished, there were no leads. He'd been a fugitive for almost two years now. Suddenly there was new intel. Salinas was supposedly here in Ensenada about an hour and a half south of the border, cutting hair at a barbershop. Abigail, one of the units officers was leading the planet. They didn't have a search warrant, so they were gonna have to find a way to lore Salinas outside.

12 (45m 8s):
I

13 (45m 8s):
Don't know, maybe if their car is outside, we can be like, maybe like find a way to be like, oh, you got a flat tire or something. Could you come out? I think your car has a flat tire, and then when they go out, that's when we get them. We've done that before.

9 (45m 23s):
Abigail's the only woman on the team. You'd think she's the boss, even though she's not. She's on her phone constantly pumping her sources and colleagues for more and better intel. That's what she was doing during the Salinas case, shouting a stream of questions into her phone. Did Salinas have any connection to Mexico? Who was he living with? Where was he getting his money from? She paused at one point to catch her breath. Sorry. She said to her colleague, it's a murder case, so it's a little bit urgent.

9 (46m 6s):
We get to the barbershop. Abigail and her colleague Yvonne, scope it out from the front seat. Yvonne is a former bodyguard. He's the one on the team most likely to show up with a six pack. After a big win, he gets a text. There's Intel from the US Marshals. It was a new tip. They're sending us to another barbershop. Yvonne says, it sounds like Salinas is in Tijuana about an hour north, so Abigail floors it along the highway that traces the Pacific Ocean driving close to a hundred miles an hour.

9 (46m 50s):
Signs of the gringo presence are everywhere. Big billboards in English that say things like invest in your new ocean view house. Another said thong and tequila party. In some ways this part of Mexico seems perfect for Americans trying to disappear, but Abigail has become a pro at drawing them out. She told me earlier that morning about one of her new strategies. She's created a bunch of fake Facebook accounts using stock photos of attractive women that she uses to catfish fugitives. One guy had actually posted on a Facebook group looking to meet people. He even used his real name.

13 (47m 30s):
He wanted to smoke some weed and he wanted to smoke it with me and stay overnight at my place and have a crazy night and I said yes. So yeah, he brought his little suitcase with his clothes and he was thought he was gonna stay with me for a few days. All like washed up and cologne.

9 (47m 56s):
Another cop from the unit cuts in and starts to troll Abigail. Sometimes they arrive stinky. He says,

14 (48m 3s):
It's

9 (48m 3s):
So you don't have to struggle with the stinky perp, right? He says, you just want to deliver 'em nice and clean. No fus. Back to the gringos. Abigail grew up in Tijuana, secretly dreaming of becoming a police officer. Her mother begged her not to. Being a cop was dangerous, but she says she was born to do the job. Abigail waited until her own daughter was a little over two and then she signed up. The stakes feel so high to her, the gringo's coming across, they could just repeat their crimes on her side of the border. She told me about the case of a pedophile who fled the us.

9 (48m 46s):
He moved into a house near a Tijuana Elementary school where he was getting ready to look for more kids to abuse and she was like, if we don't catch this guy today, who knows what he'll do here in Mexico. When we arrived in Tijuana, we parked across from the second barbershop. Yvonne and Abigail began their surveillance. As always, they work undercover today, jeans and t-shirts like two friends headed out for a day at the beach. Abigail bought some nachos from the shop next door. Slyly peering into the barbershop.

9 (49m 26s):
Yvonne put on a black backpack and walked by disguised, I guess as a 30 something year old student. Then we all settled in the car and got comfortable staring through the windshield. Usually on stakeouts. Yvonne is constantly turning up the volume on Bad Bunny. Today he's kind of bragging, showing me dozens of photos of the gringos. He's arrested like a yearbook of American fugitives. Then they get another call. Someone has left the apartment above the barbershop. The person got into a gold Honda Accord and drove away.

9 (50m 6s):
One of the agents says over the radio, I think it's Salinas. Then they take off cutting across four lanes of traffic. Abigail cuts off the Honda and they surround the car. I'm watching them approach the car and this is kind of a scary moment. Only a few weeks before the cops had been in a shootout with a fugitive from California. Mos Yvonne got shot. The team told me that they were worried that Salinas two might come out shooting if he was cornered. I watched them pull a skinny guy out of the driver's seat and push him against the car. He didn't look to me like the guy had seen in the most wanted posters.

9 (50m 47s):
Then they take his wallet from his back pocket. There's a California driver's license with the name Damien Salinas. They get out their handcuffs. Where's your name?

16 (50m 60s):
Okay, you have other, ID only have this Something in the car. Nothing guns,

17 (51m 10s):
Guns, no drugs.

9 (51m 16s):
Even after all the buildup, there was still something startling about seeing the cops catch their fugitive. Okay? It was surreal. They start figuring out logistics. Who's gonna take the gold Honda? Sele confused. She starts saying, I will go. That's when Abigail interrupts him. No, you're coming with us.

12 (51m 49s):
Okay.

9 (51m 50s):
Salinas doesn't put up a fight. They stick him in the backseat of the car and I ask if I can sit next to him to ask a few questions. They say, sure, but they put the biggest cop in the unit between us in case Salinas lunges at me. But he doesn't. He looks like he just woken up from a nap. Yeah. I'm not a, just to be clear, I'm not a law enforcement official. I'm a journalist. Wait year. Sorry, what are you again? I'm a journalist. Journalist, yeah.

17 (52m 16s):
Those are badass jobs I like.

9 (52m 19s):
It's interesting, sometimes this whole day I've been wondering what is this guy gonna be like? How had he evaded authorities for almost two years? I think I'd been expecting an angry, sophisticated criminal. This guy, after all, was being accused of homicide, but Salinas is like a kid trying to disguise himself as a man. His mustache is wispy. He's wearing air. Jordan sandals with socks forever. West Coast was tattooed on his right arm. He keeps saying how nervous he he is, but then he spins a tail about how he'd only been caught because he let his guard down. Why didn't you try to go further into Mexico? Like you stayed so close to the border?

17 (53m 0s):
Well, cause I, well man, I'm not a dumb ass though. I know why they cut me. I just stopped trying after a while. You know, things got, you know, the cops are not really that smart, you know, so it's every, every place they hit, I was right. I was always watching them. I watched 'em like they watched me when after a while I just gave up. I was like, fuck it.

9 (53m 20s):
How'd you give up?

17 (53m 23s):
It just going through a lot, you know, being alone and shit. The depression. Yeah, you know, PTSD gets in all kinds of shit, so, so you basically

9 (53m 32s):
Were like resigned yourself to getting caught. Yeah. Almost wanted to get caught it sounds

17 (53m 36s):
Like. Yeah, basically. Sometimes I get

9 (53m 39s):
Abigail weaves through Tijuana traffic with the siren on. We're headed to the border to hand Salinas over to US authorities and then Yvonne puts on gangster's paradise and turns up the volume. He tells me, ask him if he's a rapper.

17 (53m 54s):
Are you a rapper or were you ever a rapper? Yeah, like <unk> <unk> Have

9 (54m 0s):
You ever sung a song?

17 (54m 2s):
No, I never <unk>

9 (54m 4s):
And then they pull up a video on Yvonne's cell phone. Oh yeah. It's a video of Salinas wrapping taken from his social media.

17 (54m 22s):
Why did you lie and say

9 (54m 23s):
You didn't have a song

17 (54m 24s):
If you had a song? I'm not getting embarrassed, man. That's

9 (54m 27s):
Salina seems calm at this point. Abigail Parks the car at the border and the Mexican police March Salinas passed a long line of people, the daily border crossers and migrants who are waiting to enter the US on foot. They crane their next to look at the American fugitive. A small group of uniformed US officials is standing at the border. One of the agents bends his knees in a blocker's position as if Salinas might make a run for it.

17 (54m 56s):
Yeah, we know. We know all about it. So we got, we got the phone call. You guys come on in coming with us.

9 (55m 4s):
The Mexican police take off the Mexican handcuffs and the Americans put on American cuffs. It feels almost ceremonial. The arrest is done. The gringo is back in gringo hands. I watched the gringo hunters walk back from the border to their car. They had just arrested an alleged murderer. I looked for some kind of reaction. I'm not sure what exactly it high five a look of accomplishment, but there was almost nothing. The unit chases and catches so many gringos that Salinas was just another name on their list. They already had their next day's assignment. A woman had kidnapped and drugged to child.

9 (55m 46s):
They too were likely living in Tijuana. A few weeks after the Salinas Chase. I was talking to Moises, the head of the gringo hunters and he told me this thing. He said that sometimes he's hanging out with his friends who are not cops and he gets this feeling that I think cops everywhere get that regular people just don't know how many bad guys are out there. They don't know how scary it can feel to chase fugitive Americans day in and day out.

11 (56m 20s):
What I do is so that right now you guys can all all be hanging out here accountably because if we didn't do it, we'd be surrounded by all these kind of people. Like we wouldn't be able to just hang out in the afternoons and the evenings cuz we'd just be looking over our shoulder because we've caught an infinite number of Americans. Eh? I participated in, I don't know, around 1300, 1200 fugitive arrests. I mean that's a lot of fugitives. We've arrested two or three per week.

11 (56m 59s):
One hundred forty, one hundred and fifty a year per year

9 (57m 6s):
And it never ends. Right? They just keep on coming.

11 (57m 12s):
Yeah. Yeah. They just keep on coming. They keep on coming and I mean, there are times when things slow down, but then suddenly it's like, like they all agree to come across at the same time. I don't know. I'd like to say that they all came on the same bus or something.

9 (57m 43s):
<unk> doesn't come out and say it, but chasing American fugitives all day. It has shaped how he sees the United States. Part of the problem he says is that in the US it's so easy to get a gun. On some of his trips there, it seemed like everyone was armed. As we talked, it struck me that he'd come to see Mexico as being in a perilous position, bordering this heavily armed crime infested nation. I had heard that tone before. He spoke with a very real fear, perhaps a little bit of hysteria. The same way I've heard so many Americans. Talk about a lawless Mexico,

0 (58m 25s):
Kevin Sief, the Washington Post. Ya did a print version of this story with pictures that you can find online at the post website. Story was produced by Nadia Raymond,

19 (58m 54s):
Midnight up with something in my head. Couldn't escape what you contest. My trusted

0 (59m 25s):
My problem is produced today by Chris Benderev. People who put our show together today includes El Baker, Sean Cole, Michaele, Andrea Ez, Crudo, Cornfeld, Bethel Hot, Cassie, Halle, Valerie, KIPP, Mustafa, stone, Nelson, Katherine Rayo, Ryan Rumie, Alyssa Ship Chesky, Lil Sullivan, crystal Sat, Matt Tierney and Diane Wu, managing editor Sarah Abdurahman, our senior editors, David Kestenbaum. Our executive editor is Emmanuel Barry, the voice actors in the Greener Hunter story. Were Louis Sport and Chelsea Rendon. Special thanks today to Deborah Harris. Keen Yoshino, Susan Davis, Patrick Kremer, Matt Bena, Corsi, Katelin Hodgkins, Nate Cross, Benjamin Kwak Reinhardt, Kim McBride, mark Butte, Luke Vander, Sabrina Hyman, and Fernando Monroy.

0 (1h 0m 5s):
Our website, this american life.org, where we can stream our archive of over 750 episodes for absolutely free with. There's videos, those us of favorite shows to listen to, tons of other stuff. This american life.org, this American Life's delivered to public radio stations by prx, the public radio exchange. Thanks as always to our program's co-founder, Mr. Tory Mall. You know, he tried to gimme his recipe for turducken. I don't know, I just don't think he got it right.

3 (1h 0m 32s):
It's pretty much just little chicken, a little duck, and they've literally friends.

0 (1h 0m 39s):
Merry glass back next week with more stories of this American life.

2 (1h 0m 43s):
Oh,

0 (1h 1m 10s):
Next week on the podcast of this American life, when Megan was in college, she spent a whole year in the library learning how to speak Mandarin to write the characters all for her dad.

20 (1h 1m 19s):
I wanted to learn Chinese because I was trying to get closer to you,

0 (1h 1m 24s):
Learn that her father did not in fact speak Mandarin. Yep.

21 (1h 1m 29s):
Surprise.

0 (1h 1m 31s):
That's the kinda relationship they always had until recently when everything changed. That's next week on the podcast, on your local public radio station.