0 (0s):
Support for this American life comes from T I A A. Chances are you are thinking about retirement and wondering about the what ifs. What if I don't make enough? What if I'm not saving enough? T I A A can help you create a saving strategy that addresses your biggest need in retirement income for life. Want guaranteed lifetime income after you retire? Let T I A A help grow your savings. Guarantee your interest, get lifetime income. Learn more@tiaa.org. Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association. New York. New York issues. Lifetime annuities Guarantees are based upon TIAA's claims pain ability.

1 (35s):
A quick warning, there are curse words that are un beeped in today's episode of the show. If you prefer a beeped version, you can find that at our website, this american life.org.

2 (46s):
Kelsey Iby isn't somebody who likes being in the spotlight, that kind of the opposite. And she wasn't looking to get in a newspaper the night that she did the thing that got her national attention. She's just showing up to work like normal at the emergency room, at a hospital, an hour or so outside Seattle, St. Michael's Medical Center.

3 (1m 4s):
So that night when I came in at seven, I was looking at, you know, the number of patients that were there, which was high,

2 (1m 12s):
Like really high. People were all over the lobby in a messy chaos, sitting in wheelchairs cuz weren't enough regular chairs sitting on the floor. Sick kids in their parents ambulance crews with patients waiting to be seen. Kelsey says it was like an airport gate where the flight's just been canceled. A lot of dissatisfaction, a lot of unrest, and she was short staffed. Kelsey's a charge nurse, so it's her job to make sure all these patients get seen and that she's enough staff to do that, which has been a problem since Covid at hospitals all over the country. Hers included so many nurses burned out and left the profession since. Covid, that it's left hospitals perpetually short staffed, which Kelsey points out, makes the job that much more stressful for the nurses who stayed and leads to more of them saying that they can't take it.

2 (1m 59s):
Throwing in the towel, making the problem worse. The people who run Kelsey's hospital say their staffing levels are in line with national standards and best practices. But Kelsey says, typically showing us half the nurses she should have for the night shift. Half.

3 (2m 15s):
So I was already short-staffed and then I was gonna be two more down. Two of my seven o'clock nurses had called in sick, and

2 (2m 22s):
If that weren't enough, that had a cyber attack. This was a ransomware attack this past October, one of the largest nonprofit hospital chains in the country. Common Spirit Health, which meant that suddenly they couldn't access patient's medical records on the computer for two weeks.

3 (2m 38s):
I, I cannot overstate how chaotic that made things and how much it slowed us down.

2 (2m 44s):
Normally she keeps track of everybody in the lobby by opening their charts in the computer where she can see if they have lab results yet and get the basic information to figure out who can wait longer and who needs care right away.

3 (2m 54s):
And I can see if I need to keep my eye on this patient or this patient came in for chest pain, but they, they got punched in the chest by their brother. You know, there's, chances are that's probably not a heart attack. But because we didn't have our computer system, I wasn't able to see anything other than just chest pain, you know? So, wow. And I couldn't see vital signs, I couldn't see labs, I couldn't see anything about the patient's history. That is very much like a pilot, you know, flying without, without instruments in a foggy, stormy night.

2 (3m 31s):
I can't tell as you described this, I can't tell like, is this just a really bad night or is this like the worst you'd ever seen?

3 (3m 38s):
It was the worst I'd ever seen. For all of those reasons, I just felt like it had the potential to be a huge catastrophe.

2 (3m 46s):
A huge catastrophe means what?

3 (3m 48s):
The thing that we always worry about the most, and the thing that we say a lot when we are short-staffed is we are one bad car accident away from, you know, from people dying. And not long ago we had a hospital here in the area who actually had a patient die in the lobby, in the waiting room, in the er.

2 (4m 7s):
Actually, the patient, a 41 year old woman, became unresponsive in the waiting room and then was pronounced dead once you got into an ER

3 (4m 13s):
Bed. And that's a huge, that's a huge fear. I'm just terrified that we're gonna go out there and find somebody dead.

2 (4m 21s):
She realized she just had to get more nurses to cover these cases. So she did the normal things that a church nurse is supposed to do in that situation. First she checked with the hospital supervisor, a k a, the house mom.

3 (4m 36s):
I don't know what we'll ever do if it's a guy, cuz it, the house mom is really the term.

2 (4m 40s):
The house mom is the power to send somebody from elsewhere in the hospital to help out in the ER for a few hours. Nurses, lab techs who can draw blood transport staff, anybody. So she reaches the house mom,

3 (4m 51s):
And that night there was nothing, there was no available help to be had.

2 (4m 55s):
Second thing she tries, she asked that they page, every single person who works for the ER to see if anybody who's not working will come in. Nobody says yes. Third thing, she asked that they can divert ambulances to other hospitals so they're not adding to the patient count in her emergency room, but she's told no computers are down at the hospital they would send patients to and they're struggling. Also. Fourth thing, there's an ambulance company that the ER has a contract with and has called in in the past in exactly this kind of situation where they're short staffed

3 (5m 28s):
To help us take vital signs on patients in the lobby or just do a tour of the lobby and just check on everybody. Those are things that helps us process patients faster.

2 (5m 39s):
But the ambulance company was too busy to send anybody, so she tried four things, all the normal things you're supposed to do, four things failed. Was there any place else she could turn for more help? Then she got an idea. The thing that landed her in the papers, she called 9 1 1. The headlines basically were er nurse calls 9 1 1 for help, though I should say she did not actually dial the numbers. Nine. Then one, then one. She has a regular phone number that you can call and just talk to the 9 1 1 dispatcher.

3 (6m 13s):
It wasn't like a momentous decision making process for me, it was just desperation,

5 (6m 19s):
Social communications. How can I help you? Hey, this is Kelsey over at St. Mike's in the ed. I am calling to see if you guys have any available foods that can come in to help us in our lobby. We are drowning. Okay. Hang on for me one moment. Okay. Yeah. I don't know what hoops I have to jump through, but my house mom is drowning as well, so I thought I'm just gonna call and see what I, what I might be able to make happen.

2 (6m 42s):
Can I just say, the thing that really strikes me is you sound so calm

3 (6m 48s):
And that is really kind of part of the job description of being, being the charge nurse and I've, I've kind of, I've been like that my whole life. Even as a kid in the moment, in the moment of crisis, I tend to stay pretty calm and focused and get home and, and cry.

2 (7m 8s):
Did you go home and cry at the end of this night?

3 (7m 12s):
I, that night and, yeah. It wasn't the only time that I went home and cried during that week.

5 (7m 18s):
How many patients are there right now? I have looks like about, sorry, I have about, so in the lobby, I have two nurses for about 45 patients, which is not horrible,

3 (7m 39s):
And I can hear it in my voice. I can hear my, my alarm. Even though it, it sounds to, you know, to the outsider that I sound like I'm really calm. I can hear little things in my voice that tell me that I'm freaking out. I know I'm trying to hide it. Yeah.

2 (7m 55s):
Yeah. Tell me what you're hearing that, that that gives that away to you.

3 (7m 59s):
The laughter really is the thing that gives that away to me.

5 (8m 2s):
I mean, I, I know it's, it's, it's like unprecedented times, unprecedented requests, but I figured it was a worth shot. Right?

3 (8m 9s):
A little nervous laugh, like, kind of like, I don't know what else to do. It's almost like I am, I'm throwing myself at your mercy because I have no, I have no other options.

5 (8m 20s):
What's your name? Kelsey. I'm a charge nurse tonight. Lucky me. Okay. Okay. Yeah. I'm gonna do what we can do here.

2 (8m 33s):
9 1 1 decides to help her out this in an ambulance crew, three people. The three of them work the lobby, help monitor and process patients. They're there for nearly two hours, which is enough to get Kelsey over the hump. Afterwards. When nurses around the country hear about this, they call Kelsey a shero. They reach out to her. Some of them said, thanks for the idea. Call 9 1 1. I'm gonna give you that one in mind, just in case. Did it seem heroic to you

3 (8m 58s):
What you did? Not at all. Not at all. I don't see it that way and, and I just saw it as solving a problem, doing my job, trying to solve a problem.

2 (9m 8s):
She was the chart nurse. It was on her to figure things out. She basically raised her hand when she took the job and said, I'm it, and then had to deal with everything that followed stuff she never predicted or imagined, which is true of everybody in our show today. We have stories where people are like, oh, I'm gonna be the one to fix that, and only later do they really discover to their surprise what that can really entail. Even when you think you see things coming, you got it under control. That's who you are. You do not see things coming. WBE Z Chicago, this is American life. I'm a glass, stay with us.

2 (9m 50s):
Like one every day is Father's Day. Family relationships, they could set in certain patterns. They're usually just harden over time. I heard somebody recently use the word cooked to describe their relationship with a parent. That relationship is cooked, it's done. It's not gonna change. Megan Tan felt that way about her and her dad for years. They've been distant. He was super critical of her. She stepped, engaging, moved across the country, stayed away, and then something happened that made Megan decide to try to unco the relationship, to remake it with different ingredients, which is one of those things that you just can't tell how it's gonna go till you try.

2 (10m 32s):
Here's Megan.

6 (10m 33s):
My relationship with my father has always felt tail chasing. Like, we can never get close. It just didn't work. We're pretty different, and he'll be the first to tell you how this is a call from 2021.

7 (10m 48s):
Yeah, yeah. You're more emotional than,

8 (10m 51s):
Than you are.

7 (10m 53s):
Yeah.

8 (10m 54s):
Yeah.

7 (10m 58s):
Cry out in the open.

8 (10m 60s):
I do cry out in the open. What about you? When do you cry? Do you cry? Ever?

7 (11m 7s):
Don't compare. I don't cry. Hard cry.

8 (11m 11s):
Oh, why

7 (11m 14s):
In the heart? That's me. It was real.

6 (11m 18s):
That's the way I was brought up. He says, but it's hard to get him to say more than that. It's conversations like this that remind me. I'm always getting to know my father. When I was little, he didn't teach us the language. He grew up speaking, so I thought one way we could become close is if I learned Mandarin Chinese. When I was a freshman in college, I spent a whole year in the library learning how to write characters, doing rote memorization, burning phrases into my brain.

8 (11m 54s):
Come on dad, I'm trying here

6 (11m 56s):
Over the phone. I remind him of what happened. My first break home from college, we sat across the table and I showed off my new skills.

8 (12m 4s):
I wanted to learn Chinese because I was trying to understand you and trying to get closer to you, and then I studied and studied and studied, and then I came home. That was the first time you ever told me that you didn't speak Chinese.

7 (12m 19s):
Yep. Surprise,

6 (12m 23s):
Surprise, he says, and yeah, I was surprised, shocked, really? Especially when I said <unk> and he said, I have no idea what you're saying. I was 18 years old when my dad told me for the first time, he spoke <unk>. In the end, he told me I should learn Spanish instead. It's more practical in America, I suppose this is when I should share some warm childhood memories of my dad, but when I reach back in my memory, I don't really see him.

6 (13m 3s):
I don't see him at my birthday parties, volleyball games or academic award ceremonies. He was pretty closed off, icy, shuttered. I remember how he always said no, how walking around him meant you walked softly. I remember his mood swings and how nothing I did felt like it was enough. I would tell him, I got all As he would say, but you didn't do the dishes. I would pay for my own ballet classes. He would say, why are you wasting money on exercising? By the time I went to college, I had accepted how things were between us. I tried not to tell him anything I cared about because I didn't think he really cared to listen.

6 (13m 46s):
He didn't really wanna know me, but we always stayed in touch even though it was pretty surface. I would call him check in. Then in 2021, my dad sunk into a deep depression. He was in such a dark place. My older sister, crystal called me. She's in Ohio. I'm all the way in la. She didn't know what to do. I felt from my father, so I made him a part of my daily routine. I would call him every morning to remind him. Someone was thinking of him In January of 2022.

6 (14m 26s):
I call my father three times and he doesn't respond. Wednesday, nothing. Saturday I leave a message. Monday I leave another message. Just as I'm putting my phone down, he calls me back, hello dad. His voice is scratchy and dry. I can barely hear what he's saying. He's calling me from the floor. What do you mean you're on the floor? He fell. He's been on the floor for five days. I'm panicking. I keep my dad on my phone while I call Crystal with my boyfriend's phone. She says she's rushing over and hangs up on the line with my dad.

6 (15m 10s):
I keep him talking. I listen closely to his breathing. Then I hear everything unfold through his phone. I hear my sister come into his apartment. I hear her call 9 1 1. I hear medics rush through the door. They ask my father a few questions. What's his name? Where does he live? How old is he? I hear a stretcher unfold. My sister picks up his phone and tells me she'll call me right back click. I call my sister and ask for updates every day. The doctors don't know why my father fell.

6 (15m 51s):
They don't know if he had a heart attack or a stroke. My sister tells me he's barely awake. He's having a hard time talking, walking, and going to the bathroom. After my dad is discharged from the hospital and checked into a rehabilitation facility, I buy a one-way plane ticket. I'm on my way back to my hometown in Ohio. My dad is 75, but when I see him for the first time after his fall, he looks like he's 90. Usually he's around big belly guy, but now his skin is hanging off his face.

6 (16m 31s):
His eyes are sunken in. His hair is unrecognizably long and he has a beard. I didn't even know he could grow a beard beside him as a walker. I quickly kiss him on the cheek and say, hi, dad, pretending to be unfazed. I'm coming In all smiles. I'm the youngest in my family. You know the one who makes the jokes, who intentionally brings an upbeat Kimmy Schmidt, Ted Lasso can-do spirit to family gatherings. I kind of thought when I touched down in Ohio, I would be the sunshine that saves my family. I would swoop in, relieve my sister, help my dad bounce back to himself, and then be back on an airplane.

6 (17m 16s):
My dad spends a couple of weeks at the rehabilitation facility and then moves back home to his apartment. I start living with him temporarily. I get him into a routine and every morning I have him do an exercise. He loathes. Okay, smile three times. Ready? One. Nice. Okay, rest. All right. Two big teeth, big teeth. There you go. Okay, three, big, big, big cheese, two cheese. Beautiful. Smiling. Looks good on you, dad. I want his grin to remind him of the person he used to be the person who moved across the world, Singapore, to the US as a 22 year old, totally alone to pursue a dream, to attend college and study art.

6 (18m 3s):
My father loved to draw. He made his living, drawing and drafting streets at a civil engineering firm. When we were all sleeping, he'd sketch cartoons and figures on old newspapers. I'd find them in the kitchen the next morning, all over the metro section. After my dad retired, he would fly home to Singapore by himself to see his family. He would cook incredible Chinese food, fill his sketchbooks with portraits, and he was always in the middle of some big biography. I wanna say, dad, that's who you are and that's who you can be again. But he fights me. He says, no, and I can't.

6 (18m 44s):
This becomes his default response to everything. I feel like he's the bolder, and I'm Sisyphus. It's weird to be in my hometown for more than three days. Usually I'm in and I'm gone. As I accompany my sister and my dad to visit doctor after doctor, I feel like I'm getting a peek into their life together. Crystal is 10 years older than me. When my parents got a divorce and sold our childhood home, she helped them sell it. She helped my father move into his apartment, connected him to his doctor when he needed one. For most of our lives, Crystal's been the one shouldering the family responsibilities I've always avoided.

6 (19m 29s):
At one appointment, we visit my father's psychiatric nurse practitioner. After the three of us settle into her office, she directs her focus on my father. She asks him some intimate questions about his health and how he's been feeling, his mood, his motivation. He answers honestly. He tells her he has nothing to live for, that there's no purpose in his life anymore, and that he feels lonely and isolated. I sit quietly and sink into the chair. My father would never say this to us directly, which is why I'm hearing it all. For the first time. A few minutes go by and then the nurse turns to us because of his weakness, poor balance, cloudy thinking, and general fatigue.

6 (20m 15s):
He can't live alone anymore. She says, she asks if he agrees. He does, but he tells her he feels guilty about burdening us. She looks at us again, smiles and says, one more thing. He should probably move in with one of you, Crystal and I talk it through. Dad can move in with her, but to be honest, I don't know if that's such a good idea. She has a kid, multiple jobs. Her life is already so full, so stressful, but in la my apartment is on the first floor.

6 (20m 55s):
I have a walk-in, shower, all the things he needs, I could do it on my own. I decide it has to be me. It just does. Instead of seeing this moment as a burden, I wanna see it as an opportunity. My father and I could become closer if we live together, but I need him to want this too. So at a family meeting, I put living in LA on the table to see what he says. Two big questions, stay in Ohio or move to California. It's like choose your own adventure

9 (21m 31s):
Based, based on my, yeah. How basis. I don't think I can do either one.

6 (21m 38s):
That's not a part of the That's not an option, dad. Yeah, and when you, and if you come to California, you would be staying with me. You say, me and Megan, new roommate situation. Okay. If you stay in Ohio, you would be either in a retirement facility. Oh, yeah. Yeah. It's clear. My dad doesn't wanna commit to anything. After 10 minutes of circling around a decision, I started to get impatient. I asked my father pointedly if I said, you have to move to California and live with me. How would you feel about that?

6 (22m 20s):
I feel great. Oh. Oh, great. Okay, great. Let's choose that one. You said you'll feel great. I like California. I do too, but no, no, no. I like this. Let's just logistics. Oh, dad. Logistics are logistics. We're in Ohio for another three weeks now that we're counting down the days. My father's anxiety is ramping up. He doesn't understand how he's gonna get on the plane or how we're gonna get out of his apartment lease. He doesn't think he has enough pants for California. Everything is impossible. What's our deal?

6 (23m 1s):
To have hope? Can you have hope? Say yes. Can you have hope? Say yes. Yes. It's hard for me to listen to this. I sound forceful like a sunshine bully. My dad tries to say something, but I quickly interrupt him. Is this negative energy? What do you have to have? What do you have to have Hope. Can you have hope? Here we go again. Yeah. This is this. We're gonna live together.

6 (23m 42s):
Oh, step by step. We're gonna make it work. Okay? I need you to trust me. Remember? Yes. Trust me. Your 31 year old daughter who has never been a caretaker before and has taken you away from everything you know.

10 (24m 5s):
Good morning and welcome aboard your flight crew this morning, Oscar.

6 (24m 10s):
Before this, I lived alone for three years. Then my boyfriend moved in, and now my dad, there are three of us in my one bedroom apartment. When we walk in, I immediately start dad proofing the rooms. I roll up all of my colorful rugs so my dad doesn't slip and fall in my bathroom. I install a raised toilet seat in grip bars. I give my father my bed and my bedroom. My boyfriend and I get the pullout bed in our dining room slash office. I hide all my lingerie and sexy bathing suits. When my father lands in Los Angeles, he's still incredibly weak, and I'm not just his daughter. I'm also his secretary.

6 (24m 51s):
I find him doctors and book his appointments. When he needs to pay a bill, we pay it together. I'm also his nurse. I help him change his clothes and take showers. When he has an accident, I clean up the floors. He's having a hard time eating and I'm watching him lose weight. I monitor his appetite and cook him specific meals for breakfast, lunch, and dinner. I've brought in a crew of people to help. There's a speech, physical and occupational therapist and a nurse who all come to visit an hour here, an hour there. But I'm the first person he sees in the morning and the last person he sees at night.

6 (25m 31s):
The weight of his moment to moment life is fully on my shoulders, and I had no idea how heavy it would be. He can't sit down without my help. Can't take a shower without me there. Every move he makes, I'm right beside him, his shadow still. I try to resume my life, launch back into work, make plans with friends, go out to bars. I try to take my dog to the park, cook and clean the house like usual, but it's just not possible. I cancel all my friends last minute. I can't keep the house clean, and I'm constantly running late to meetings. His life is my life.

6 (26m 10s):
It's all consuming, but I can't tell my father that we're together all the time, but I feel like I'm living this part of our life alone, and it's only been two weeks. I need my dad to depend on me a little less or start to move in that direction, so I try to help him at the kitchen table. I surround us with posted notes and colorful markers, ready to brainstorm. If you can have anything, what do you want it to be? I'm definitely more into this future planning than he is. He's closing his eyes and starting to fall asleep. Dad, no question.

6 (26m 50s):
How can you answer that question? I don't know. Just make a goal. My dad once told me before I go to bed, I should envision the things I wanna accomplish, that he used to do that. That's how he came to America, and that's always worked for me. But I can't convince him to make any goals, so I pick up a marker and start doing it for him. You wanna become independent? Yeah. I'm so blinded by my own determination to move him forward. Maybe he does need to sleep, but that's not what I'm thinking right now. I'm afraid I write down a few more goals, like walk without my walker, change clothes by myself.

6 (27m 33s):
How about cooking for myself and my daughter? How about that? That's a good one. What's another one? Dad? Dad, are you there? His eyes are closed. He's tapped out and so am i. No one ever told me my father would become independent again. No nurse told me he would or wouldn't walk without his walker. No doctors told me he would or wouldn't drive.

6 (28m 14s):
I don't know what's realistic, which means I'm in my own ideal world and I'm just winging it. I'm making up these goals. I wanna imagine a better life for him, and he's improving. Little by little day by day, he's able to sit down and stand up on his own, but I notice he's not making his bed. He's able to walk more confidently, but he's not going outside. He's able to stay awake longer, but he's not being social. He spends hours in the middle of the day lying in his bed, doing nothing. That's when I'm the most frustrated with him. I storm into his room or I cry to myself in a corner exhausted by my own emotions.

6 (28m 56s):
I call up a Buddhist friend who just encourages me to just let him be and to love him exactly as he is, to respect his life. If he leaves his bedroom or not. I start writing that phrase down every day for myself. I will respect my father's life. I will love him exactly as he is. Something I've never written down before, and this becomes my new goal to hold my tongue to say less. It's hard. I slip up all the time, especially when it comes to his medication. Dad, did you take your medication yet? It's 10 o'clock. You were supposed to take it at nine 30.

6 (29m 38s):
Sometimes I catch myself. You're doing that thing again. You're making it sound like he's messing up, but some days I can't stop. Did you drink your water today? I interrogate him. Are you sure your water bottle looks full? I'm starting to realize it's the small stuff I say every day. The little things that can chip away at him the most, because that's what he did to me. When he gets all As, I focus on how he didn't do the dishes, it takes me a while. Eventually, I do get better when it's two in the afternoon and I notice that my dad has been lying in bed for the past three hours.

6 (30m 20s):
I go into his room and I ask if he wants to go for a walk. He says no, and I just say, okay. I let him be. It's June now. We're three months in, and I've been practicing saying less. We get on the phone with Crystal. Well give her an update. How are you doing, dad?

11 (30m 50s):
What? Update? How's what?

12 (30m 56s):
What's going on? Huh? Yeah.

11 (31m 2s):
I mean, what? What I'm talking about? Not Not your housework.

12 (31m 6s):
Yeah, that's fine.

6 (31m 9s):
Can't you tell he's stronger?

12 (31m 13s):
Yeah.

6 (31m 18s):
That's one of the first times I've heard my father recognize he's progressing out loud.

12 (31m 23s):
What? That's awesome. And Megan's feeding you good food? I hear.

11 (31m 31s):
I guess

6 (31m 33s):
I'm laughing because I know he is joking. I guess in the past I might have gotten defensive, but now I know him better and he's helping around the house. He helped me organize my cables yesterday. Tell them what you did yesterday.

11 (31m 49s):
We went to the pub.

6 (31m 50s):
What do we have to eat? Dad?

11 (31m 53s):
Snacks. Crackers.

12 (31m 58s):
Crackers.

11 (31m 60s):
Yeah. We're running off food right now.

6 (32m 2s):
We're not running out of food. We just need to go to the grocery store like every family on a Sunday. Is he really worried? We're running out of food. I'm trying to get better at listening to him. Like really listening. Dad. The truth is, you can, I don't wanna brush him off or just tell him everything is fine. Have you always, so I ask him directly about his worries and fears. Well, that's something that he lists off a few things. He's worried about his car, his clothes, where all this stuff from his apartment went. Do you have anything else you're worried about?

11 (32m 36s):
I love things he

6 (32m 37s):
Worried about. What are you worried about?

11 (32m 39s):
Money. What

6 (32m 41s):
Would make you not worried about money?

11 (32m 44s):
More money.

6 (32m 48s):
As I'm loosening up, he's loosening up too, and I can tell he's coming into himself again during breakfast, when we're sitting at the dining room table, conversations that used to be dominated by his health status are replaced with mundane talks about whatever, which is great. Do you have any dreams?

11 (33m 13s):
Yeah. I,

6 (33m 15s):
Oh, like what?

11 (33m 18s):
I'm trying to solve a problem.

6 (33m 20s):
What was the problem? Math

11 (33m 22s):
Problem.

6 (33m 23s):
A math problem? Yeah. That was the dream. Yeah.

11 (33m 26s):
Screwed up. Don't remember.

6 (33m 29s):
You don't remember the math problem? Yeah.

11 (33m 34s):
About you.

6 (33m 35s):
No dreams. No

11 (33m 36s):
Dreams. Yes. No.

6 (33m 40s):
So now we talk about all kinds of things, but I hadn't asked him about how he thought it was going. Was I pushing him too hard? How was he feeling then? A few weeks ago, one afternoon, he shuffles into my office. I sit him in a chair and we get into it. I ask him, those first few weeks in la What was he thinking?

13 (34m 3s):
Those days was in a state of shock.

6 (34m 6s):
You were in a state of shock.

13 (34m 7s):
Trauma.

6 (34m 9s):
Yeah.

11 (34m 9s):
Yeah.

13 (34m 10s):
Having to change planes, change house. Moving here, moving there. It was just daisy

6 (34m 20s):
Dizzy. His mind was dizzy. When I asked my father specifically about whether or not making goals was helpful, he tells me they weren't

13 (34m 30s):
Good intentions. I says, cannot see the outcome. Every day I ask myself, what? What I'm going to do? My mind doesn't open, he just block. It's a block. I have nothing to look forward to. That's the way I felt. Yeah.

6 (34m 46s):
That's the way you felt then? Yeah.

13 (34m 48s):
Yeah. Until I overcome my injuries, I don't feel confident to be able to do all these things, and I don't think anybody will, will help me do, do this.

6 (35m 5s):
Why? Huh?

13 (35m 6s):
Because that's the way life is. Being depending on somebody to do all these things is not easy. Yeah.

6 (35m 14s):
Do you feel like I'm pushing you?

11 (35m 16s):
No.

13 (35m 17s):
No. I'm trying, essentially trying to encourage me, trying to get me set in the positive direction.

6 (35m 25s):
It's not annoying.

13 (35m 28s):
It could be annoying, but I don't have much to say.

6 (35m 32s):
What do you mean,

13 (35m 33s):
Huh? Well, I know you're trying to do your best. Yeah. And I try to follow you. Yeah. Because I know you think too, think much about me.

6 (35m 47s):
This isn't the first time my dad's told me that he sees me and everything I've been doing, but every time he says it, it still gets to me. Me doing my best is enough.

13 (35m 59s):
Well, after I, after I felt, I felt that you were more concerned about my life than ever before. Yeah.

6 (36m 10s):
Hmm. Whereas before, we were just living separately. Right?

13 (36m 14s):
Yeah. Living separately. And after I fell, you get to know more. Know more about me. I believe I get to know more about your workings, how you feel. Which is, which is good. And your determination. Determination to help me. Not a surprise, but just not a shock.

6 (36m 39s):
It could be a shock. Yeah. Was it a surprise?

13 (36m 42s):
Yeah, it was a surprise. Yeah.

6 (36m 46s):
Why was it a surprise?

13 (36m 50s):
Because I never thought that you, that you really do care.

6 (37m 1s):
It takes me a while to process what he's saying. I never knew. He felt like I never cared because I've always cared. But maybe he's right. Maybe I didn't care as much as I care Now,

2 (37m 25s):
Megan Tan, this is the host of Snooze, a podcast from LA S Studios. Her story was produced by Laura Chesky Coming up, the surprising power of making a spreadsheet full of profanities. That's in a minute. Chicago Bubble Radio. When our program continues, it's this American life. Myra Glass. Today's program, you are it stories of the people who step up and say, I will take care of this. I've got this. And the very, very unexpected places that can lead them. We have arrived at Act two of our show, act two. Game of phones several. So over the last few years, one of our producers, Hannah Jeffrey Walt, has been checking in with somebody who decided that they were gonna be it like forever ago.

2 (38m 13s):
And where's the mantle? Well, she's a school principal likes being in charge is great about the whole thing of the buck stopping with her. She is very consistent about it, except for one choice she made. Okana did not understand. Here she is,

14 (38m 29s):
A school principal is a pretty classic year it job. It's all you. When the school needs new math books, a new curriculum, a new budget, you're it, A pipe broke, and now the science classroom is flooded. You're IT students got into a fight at lunch. Seven teachers called in sick today, and now there are 14 minutes to rearrange the entire schedule and communicated to everyone involved all you. Because of this, the job tends to attract a certain type of person. A person who believes they can or should or needs to be the one called on in any given moment, often, but not always. This is also a person who is quick to color code, has contingency plans for everything and loves a system.

14 (39m 13s):
You'll find variations. You've got your brilliant visionary types and the parking rules people, the person whose task list are alphabetical, and the person who is more playing it by ear and talks about holding space. Dr. Teresa Hill is somehow a little bit of all of these people. The first time I tried to describe her to someone else, I found myself saying, she's just such a principal. When I first talked to her, Dr. Hill had recently become Arizona Principal of the Year. I'd heard of Teacher of the Year. I didn't know Principal of the year was a thing, but it is. And in 2021, Dr. Hill was the one who was picked.

15 (39m 52s):
Yeah. No, it was just a phone call. I was in my office. It was a summer. There wasn't a lot going on and received the call. You know, congratulations. You are the Arizona principal of the year.

14 (40m 5s):
Why do you think you won?

15 (40m 10s):
Oh, who knows.

14 (40m 12s):
I do. That was a fake out question. I know Dr. Hill's assistant principal nominated her. You're actually supposed to apply yourself, but the assistant principal knew Dr. Hill wouldn't actually do it, so she got the ball rolling. Writing. Dr. Hill has built the culture at Walden Grove High School from the ground up. It's one of those schools that's friendly and warm. People feel excited about what they do. A few months after Dr. Hill was elevated to principal of the year, that's when she made a choice that seemed so unlike her, the opposite of everything she is. That story begins in August, 2021. And you remember this time, COVID.

14 (40m 53s):
Then schools reopening their teacher shortages, parents angry about masks and having to keep their kids home. And when I saw Dr. Hill facing the chaos and vitriol of that miserable period of time, I thought, oh, just watch this woman own this mess. We are about to see all the wizardry of principal brought to bear on this situation. She's gonna reign this right in. Here's what things looked like at Dr. Hill's School. The county had mandated that students had to quarantine if they were exposed to covid at school and weren't vaccinated. So Dr.

14 (41m 33s):
Hill enforced this mandate. Parents pushed back. One group of parents came to her school and refused to leave the lobby after one of their kids had to quarantine. They were there for hours, they were arrested. They filmed themselves being arrested, hosted it online, and the videos made headlines. And after that, Dr. Hill's office administrator said there were angry voicemail messages on the school phone.

15 (41m 59s):
And I went to her and said, Hey, I, I need you to send me those messages. And she just shook her head and she had tears in her eyes, and she was like, you don't wanna hear these messages. I told her, it's okay. I just said, I, I, I understand. I know, I know. They're not good. I just, I need them. So just send them to me. It's okay.

14 (42m 20s):
Why did you need them?

15 (42m 23s):
Well, ev everything that I did always was from a perspective of like, I'm not gonna make you do something that I'm not gonna do myself. And I wasn't gonna put that on her to have to sort through. You know what I mean? And that's kind of the way that I, I dealt with anything as a principal. It's like, I'm the leader of the school and I need to make sure that I'm taking care of things.

14 (42m 48s):
Principal Hill assumed the voicemails were about the videos that were circulating online, blaming her for enforcing the county quarantine rules. So angry messages on the school voicemail went straight to the bottom of her to-do list.

15 (43m 2s):
And I went about my day and, you know, did all the normal things of what I would do, where, you know, I'm out supervising for lunch and supervising before school, between classes, you know, going into classes, whatever. Just doing my normal thing. And then it wasn't until the end of the day when, you know, once the buses have left and kid and teachers are kind of leaving. And then I started listening to 'em.

16 (43m 27s):
I hope your principal, your district, your high school, everyone of you fucking morons gets sued into oblivion.

14 (43m 37s):
That was the first one. I wanna say, if you're sensitive to profanity, this doesn't let up. Principal Hill kept listening.

17 (43m 46s):
You are committing war crimes against the people of United States. You guys are shameful, disgusting, vile, evil, and you better check yourself before Christ.

18 (43m 60s):
Shame on you guys carefully without doubt. Suck ass

15 (44m 5s):
Now in the first few. I'm not really affected personally, I guess, you know what I mean? Like, I can hear people are mad. I can hear that they're venting. Like whatever. I can deal with all that. I'm a high school principal. I deal with all kinds of conflict, right? It's, it's not the end of the world. I'm not here to make everybody love me. No big deal. But definitely when the fourth one comes, then you know things get real.

19 (44m 29s):
Yes. Hi. If you could just let Teresa Hall, I'm sorry, Teresa Hill, the principal of Walden Grove High School, know that America's watching her. And if she could do everybody in this country a favor and disappear, maybe spin on a, on a sandpaper dildo, maybe run backwards through a cornfield, maybe eat the end of a shotgun. Any of those things would be acceptable. So tell her, she better watch her sick.

14 (45m 11s):
Dr. Hill paused. She was sitting alone in her office, door closed, listening on speaker phone, and she'd been clicking through the messages. Next message, next message. Until this one,

15 (45m 23s):
I'd never received anything like that. As a principal, as a teacher, I mean like, whoa, what the heck? You know?

14 (45m 32s):
Yeah, yeah,

15 (45m 33s):
Yeah. Eat the end of a shotgun. Maybe you should eat the end of a shotgun.

14 (45m 38s):
She slowly repeated the words of the messages to herself, and then she got back to work.

15 (45m 45s):
Okay, I think I need, I need to save these. Like, they were telling me that they were gonna sue me. And I thought, you know what? I wanna make sure that I have this on record. And so as I was listening to the first to them for the first time, I was also transcribing them.

14 (46m 3s):
You started transcribing word for word what people were saying.

15 (46m 7s):
Yeah.

20 (46m 8s):
Your bullies, cowards and deniers of freedom.

14 (46m 13s):
She typed cowards, deniers of freedom. There are 40 messages like these.

21 (46m 21s):
Shame, shame,

14 (46m 22s):
Shame. She was playing them on speakerphone. And her assistant principal overheard, came in to help Dr. Hill transcribe in case she needed these messages for something in the future, maybe as evidence. She thought,

22 (46m 35s):
How about we end up outside your guys' houses, we're not gonna protest the school. We'll go directly to your bloody fucking homes,

14 (46m 43s):
Bloody fucking homes. Dr. Hill Types. As a person who has transcribed a lot of audio, because of my job, it takes a really long time. And if you were trying to get it word for word, you have to go back over and over again.

15 (47m 4s):
Yeah. I mean, there were times where I was, I, we would look at each other and I was like, did they say this? Or did they say that? And she would say, I heard this. I'm like, oh, I heard this. Well, let's play it again. And we would play it

14 (47m 13s):
Again to be like, did he say, you definitely are a sick ass, or You suck ass,

15 (47m 20s):
Right? Oh yeah.

14 (47m 22s):
Oh my God.

15 (47m 24s):
Yeah. I was typing away. I would stop. I would go back type again. And like, I couldn't just go back a little bit. So I literally, when I went to restart, I would have to listen to the message from the very beginning, all the way through again. I mean, man, it was brutal.

14 (47m 42s):
But she kept going all the way through the end. She could get this under control. She could create a useful document. And I'm not talking about a simple transcript. Tell me about the format. Like why did you, this is a spreadsheet. Why did you choose to do it this way?

15 (48m 1s):
I guess I'm a math teacher and I like spreadsheets more than I like word.

14 (48m 6s):
It has columns. You say the message number, the time, the date, the phone number of the person. Yeah. It feels to me like, oh, and I saw it. I was like, of course she's a principal. Let's just organize clear information. Like did it feel like you were interacting with it in the way that you might, you know, a school budget or,

15 (48m 24s):
Yeah, I mean, I even like highlighted, so you could see like, this is a direct threat. This is an implied threat. I just felt like it was a lot more organized this way. And I think that's part of, you know, of why I did it. Something I can control. Getting the phone number, writing down what is exactly said. I think that transcribing actually, it helped me, like detach myself from what was being said and make it more like a job. I don't know if that makes any sense.

14 (48m 53s):
That makes so much sense. That makes so much sense. Yeah. Principal Hill sent her spreadsheet to the superintendent noting the threats that may still need investigating by police, hopefully color coded by degree of danger, same way she may have shared, say, a color chart that allows you to assess and visualize student achievement. It's not an obvious choice to respond this way, but everything she did in response to these messages felt so in line with who she is and how she operates. She managed it. She contained the problem and shielded everyone else from unnecessary distress.

14 (49m 39s):
She didn't share the messages with anyone else, her colleagues, her husband. She told her family, she'd gotten some threats and to be on alert for strange cars. And she began parking in the back of the school and entering that way, she told me she imagined if someone was waiting to snipe her out when she arrived for work in the morning, they'd be sitting by the front door. She said this casually, not like a person who was panicked or scared, but a person who was taking the appropriate steps to deal with the problem. It was handled. And then we get to the choice that I did not understand. Principal Hill quit in the middle of the school year, just six months after she was named Principal of the year.

14 (50m 21s):
She left her job. She didn't leave immediately after the harassment. She kept going to work for a couple months, but the voicemails started to get to her. The thing about listening to something over and over is that it stays with you. That was the accidental side effect of transcribing these messages. Principal Hill says the words became ingrained in her head, and she'd find herself in a meeting or supervising lunch outside and they pop back up.

15 (50m 49s):
You know, I find myself in the courtyard, like not talking to anybody, you know, just like in my own little world, sitting there by myself, not interacting with kids and, and doing the things that I like to do. I'm a pretty positive person and I like to keep things light and move forward. And, and this was like heavy on me.

14 (51m 13s):
You couldn't, you couldn't move forward

15 (51m 15s):
At the time I couldn't. No. And I, I had a hard time because, you know, deep down how you feel, you don't feel good. And yet it's not healthy for anyone in your organization to know how you feel. So, so you slap on a smile, you know, you put, you put on a happy face. And what

14 (51m 36s):
Is that? That's some like principle thing that people can't know how you feel.

15 (51m 41s):
Yeah, I guess so. I mean, people want leaders who are strong, but who aren't emotional. And, and you know, I don't, I don't ever wanna put my own burdens and my own challenges on my people.

14 (51m 59s):
Dr. Hill is so good at keeping what she feels to herself, that even after we talked about this for hours, I still didn't understand why she had to leave, why this was the thing that she couldn't shake off. But then months after she left her job, Dr. Hill gave testimony in court and she spoke candidly in public about her experience of all this. For the first time, trespassing, the parents who wouldn't leave her school were charged with trespassing. There was a whole trial, they were found guilty. And then the judge asked Dr. Hill if she wanted to say anything. Did she wanna share the effect this had on her? And she did. She talked about her fear. And this time she wasn't all casual in describing, avoiding the front entrance of the school.

23 (52m 43s):
I couldn't go through the front of the school. In this day and age, with shootings and attacks on public officials, I, if you listen to the messages and you heard their anger and, and their blood pressure raised, I feared for my safety. And I feared for the safety of my family. This has negatively impacted me physically. I've had health problems because of this. It's impacted me mentally. And unfortunately, the biggest impact has it affected me professionally. Never in my 29 years as an educator, would I think of leaving my school halfway through the year,

14 (53m 26s):
She said to the judge, you have to understand what I had to listen to.

23 (53m 31s):
I don't wanna cuss, but I think I need you to understand here is if, if it's okay, I can quote some of those messages that were left for me.

14 (53m 41s):
The judge gives permission to cuss. And Dr. Hill, who had prepared nothing, has nothing written down, begins repeating the messages verbatim. It's like she's been waiting to let them out.

23 (53m 54s):
I was called to fucking cunt. I was told to sit and spin on a sound paper dildo. I was told to disappear. I was told to eat the end of the shotgun. I was told not to go out in public. I was told, we are not coming to the school, we're coming to your house. And I lived in fear for four months after that.

14 (54m 28s):
A friend of mine, an assistant principal for decades now, told me he still remembers his mentor. Explaining early on that the job of a school leader is never inflict pain on an institution. The job is to absorb pain for the institution. It must be confusing to be any kind of public official right now trying to absorb the pain of the last few years. How many principles or election officials or public health officials or prime ministers of countries have scrambled to respond to a public that is rageful by doing what they know how to do, by throwing PowerPoints at people, by holding public hearings, printing out color charts only to finally understand that all the vitriol and misinformation was always gonna be too enormous for any one person to absorb Principal Hill, shielded everyone else from distress until it was only hers.

15 (55m 25s):
But it wasn't just the words, it was the isolation that I felt with it. I felt like I was all alone in dealing with the situation. That is what made me say, I can't do this anymore.

14 (55m 41s):
So many of these voicemails are asking for you to resign. Yeah. So then when you did, did it feel like, oh, I don't wanna give them what they wanted.

15 (55m 52s):
Of course, of course. But I had to really dig deep and do what was best for me.

14 (56m 3s):
What was best for her was the one choice that was completely out of character. Something far from her principle ness and all her familiar moves, she decided not to be it anymore.

2 (56m 26s):
Hi, Jeffrey Wat, who's the producer on our show,

4 (56m 59s):
What

2 (56m 59s):
Today's program is produced by Nicky Meek and Bethel Hop. The people put together today's show include Chris Benderev, Sean Cole of Kornfeld, Cassie Halle, David Kestenbaum, Valerie Kipp, Katherine Rayo, stone, Nelson, Nadia, Raymond, Alyssa, ship Christopher, so Lil Sullivan, Matt Tierney and Diane Wu, our managing editor, Sarah Abdurahman, our senior editors, David Kestenbaum. Our executive editor is Emmanuel Barry. Special thanks today to Rava Kig, Mike Soki Whiskey and Regina Grossman, and the N A ss P, our website, this american life.org, where you can stream our archive of over 750 episodes for absolutely free. Also, there's all kinds of other stuff. Lists of favorite shows, videos, tons of things. There again, this American life.org, this American Life is delivered to public radio stations by prx, the Public Radio Exchange.

2 (57m 47s):
Thanks. It's always Joe Program's co-founder, Mr. Troy Maltier. You know, he called me at 2:00 AM today, 2:00 AM woke me up to tell me he's been having trouble sleeping lately. Could I maybe sing him a bye?

5 (57m 59s):
I mean, I, I know it's, it's, it's like unprecedented times, unprecedented request, but I figured it was a worth shot.

2 (58m 6s):
I'm Eric Glass back next week. There's more stories of this American life. Next week on the podcast of this American Life, Michael and Joan fell for each other. He was in prison, she was not. And as long as he was in prison, things were great romantic. Even they wrote glove letters, they missed each other. And then he got out.

2 (58m 48s):
And as you'd expect, it got a lot more complicated. What happened next? Next week on the podcast, we're in your local public radio station.