Squarespace (0s):
Squarespace is the all-in-one platform for building your brand and growing your business online. Get started with a best-in-class website template and customize it to fit your needs. Browse the category of your business to find a perfect starting place. Sell your products on an online store. Whether you sell physical or digital products, Squarespace has the tools you need to start selling online. Head to squarespace.com/daily for free trial. And when you're ready to launch, use offer code daily to save 10% off your first purchase of a website or domain.

1 (28s):
Hey everybody, it's Tyra. Last week here at the top of the show I talked about the new podcast by our coworkers at Serial. It's called The Coldest Case in Iron. This is the first time since serial season one and the story of Adan Sayed. That serial is telling the story of a murder and trying to figure out who did it. Right. Now what we're gonna do is I'm gonna play you the trailer and then we're gonna start today's show.

3 (52s):
Years ago when I was a teenager, I lived in Laramie, Wyoming. I've always remembered it as a mean town. Uncommonly mean a place of jagged edges and cold people where the wind blew so hard, it actually whipped pebbles at you, actually pushed trucks off the highway. Laramie stood at an elevation of more than 7,000 feet and got so socked in by winter storms. It felt like we were trapped. Like there was no way out. The town's only high school. Laramie High was grim even by normal high school standards. One of my classmates killed someone. Other students killed themselves.

3 (1m 32s):
Some boys were held down and branded with letters like they were livestock coaches who caught guys fighting in the hallways made them fight for real in a makeshift ring. But the main reason that Laramie has always stuck with me, the defining cruelty in a litany of them, was a young woman I never met named Shelly Wiley. In the fall of 1985, when I was a high school sophomore, Shelly was murdered in her apartment. She graduated from Laramie High just a few years before I got there. She was 22 white, A pretty brunette living, a version of the life my friends and I imagined for ourselves.

3 (2m 13s):
One day. I remember the shock of her murder arriving at my high school. Some students became suspects. Others played the guessing game. Shelly's murder was never solved. Every few years after I moved away, after I became a reporter, I'd searched your name for news almost as an idle reflex. There was never anything until 2016. 31 years after Shelly's murder, there was a development. The police arrested a former Laramie cop for the murder. The evidence against him seemed overwhelming.

3 (2m 55s):
On the night Shelly was killed in 1985, witnesses placed him at the scene. His blood had been found there too. And after being confronted with D N A evidence in 2016, he had even told police that I'm not denying that I did it and I killed a girl. But then just a few months later, prosecutors dropped the charges against him, which means a former cop had been arrested, his DNA had been found at the scene. He'd even apparently given something like a confession and then nothing.

3 (3m 36s):
The whole thing seemed So Laramie, I doubted this was a story. My editor would be into a 36 year old cold case for my time in high school and might have a perfectly reasonable explanation for where it stood, but I figured, what's the harm in making some calls, pulling some string, a little side project that turned into a full fledged reinvestigation of the case and the people and the place. I thought I understood. I'm serial productions in the New York Times. It's the coldest case in Laramie coming on February 23rd.

3 (4m 17s):
Listen wherever you get your podcasts.

1 (4m 29s):
Okay, so that's the trailer, the coldest case in the iron. When you hear it, I have to say it does not feel like other podcasts. They're really trying something that feels different. Okay, and now let's turn to today's show

4 (4m 44s):
From W B E C Chicago. It's this American Life. I'm Nancy Updyke sitting in for Ira Glass. Okay, Val, what are we looking at?

5 (4m 54s):
So this video, it's from the front lines of the war on Ukraine. It's from a few weeks ago, and it's in Bmu, which is a sitting in the eastern part of the country. And the video is shot by this guy who's part of a team of volunteers who help people get out. He's filming it on a camera that's like inside his front coat pocket or something.

4 (5m 14s):
Yeah, I can tell it's, it's kind of herky jerky cuz he is. He's running now. He's walking actually. Or low buildings all around like three or four stories.

5 (5m 24s):
Yeah. And there are no people in sight. <unk> No cars. It's totally empty.

4 (5m 31s):
All right, I'm gonna stop here for some quick background. Valerie, who's been talking me through the video, is my colleague Valerie. Kipp, a producer at the show. She speaks Russian, understands Ukrainian. She has been watching a lot of these videos, which are a genre in this war in Bmu. The fighting has been terrible for months. The city may already have fallen by the time this airs. Tens of thousands of people left the city in earlier waves. The deputy prime minister of Ukraine said the other week, if you are rational law abiding and patriotic citizens, you should leave the city immediately. But at every frontline in every war, if it's a city, there are people holding out in Bach moot, maybe several thousand, many elderly or disabled people.

4 (6m 19s):
Those caring for them also diehards. And so ordinary people, like the guy who shot this video, have taken it upon themselves to put on bulletproof fests, somehow get into Bach moot and get people out. Take them to a refugee center where they'll be safe. Alright, back to this video that Valerie is showing me. The volunteer, a guy named Kuba is in Buck moot, looking for an older woman who seems to be one of the last people left in this one apartment building. Okay. He's running up the stairs

5 (6m 53s):
And you can see this building is like totally destroyed. I mean, you can barely see it, but it has a huge hole in it. He's adding like evacuation evacuators. I see. And so he's trying to shout like, Hey, come out.

7 (7m 16s):
Hello. <unk>

4 (7m 26s):
Oh, there she is. You found her.

5 (7m 29s):
And he's saying like, Hey, I'm a, I'm a volunteer. My name's Cuba. I'm here to take you out. I'm here to take you to peace. And she's like, I'm not ready, I'm not ready, I'm not packed. And he's like, there's lots of bombs we have to go.

4 (7m 41s):
There's clearly no heat. She's in a coat and a hat. And she's got her glasses. And

5 (7m 47s):
She's like, what do I take with me? And he's like, passports and pictures of loved one. That's it. Let's go. And she's saying like, I need to pack grapes and, and maybe some sort of like pancakes or chocolate. And he's like, there's gonna be everything there come.

4 (8m 2s):
And then the video jumps ahead and suddenly they're outside walking.

5 (8m 10s):
She goes, I got less ready than I would've if there was a fire.

8 (8m 17s):
And

5 (8m 18s):
She goes, and my shoes are all broken. They're all falling apart. What am I gonna wear there? And he's like, there'll be everything there. <unk> There'll be everything.

4 (8m 33s):
And how many of his videos have you watched?

5 (8m 36s):
Oh man. Dozens. Over a hundred.

4 (8m 45s):
These evacuations are a whole thing that's happening. There are loose networks of people who do it. There's no one organization behind it. But evacuators just go in, like this guy, Cuba, sometimes he gets into town and all he has is a name maybe from a family member who contacted him. Like, can you get out my grandma or my cousin? Maybe he has an address if the person is still there. And if Cuba can't find it or he's running out of time, he just jogs through the streets calling their name out.

4 (9m 36s):
The problem is people don't always wanna go. A lot of people he meets don't wanna go. They're not ready or they don't wanna be rescued. Some don't wanna leave property or they don't wanna abandon other family members who won't leave. Some think the worst is over or will soon be over. And that once one side or the other wins, everything will calm down and they'll just learn to live with the outcome, whatever that is. Valerie's been talking with this guy Cuba Stache, who works in the east, including Bach, moot. He's a young man, 28, he's Polish. His group has people from all over, including Ukrainians.

4 (10m 17s):
Cuba says when he's trying to persuade people to go, sometimes maps help.

9 (10m 23s):
They chauvin that Russians are pushing from every single direction that they can. And in LA couple days there will will be nothing. And that on the next day there may be, I mean, there is a risk that tomorrow we want Rich their house cuz Russians will cut off the last road.

4 (10m 42s):
Cuba told Valerie that when he started doing this almost a year ago, he wanted to convince every person he talked to to

9 (10m 50s):
Leave.

4 (10m 51s):
But he's gotten very used to hearing No,

9 (10m 53s):
Because back then I was like trying to convince anyone anytime. And right now when there is a heavy shining and somebody's telling me to pardon my French <unk> I'm, I'm just like, whatever. Of course, yeah, sure. You, you can't help anybody, especially when we are just, you know, hostile towards you. You, you can't do nothing. And it's nice to think, to, to believe that you can. Cuz you can't, you just can't save the whole world. That's, that's what I'm trying to say.

4 (11m 24s):
Even some yeses he's found are kind of a no. That woman he evacuated who wanted to pack up grapes and pancakes. Valerie says he took her to a refugee center in a city called Crema Tok.

5 (11m 36s):
It's about an hour away from her home. And she was so upset. Gowa told me

9 (11m 42s):
She wasn't happy about live. She, she asked me, I mean, why did, I took her to such a wild place. She had this perspective that I, i dunno, tricked her or something. So she was upset. She was, you know, telling me that she wants to go back. And I was like, but city's dying. City's capta. She was like, okay, so I will die with, with the city. And I was like, okay, end, end of end the end of conversation. What can I do?

5 (12m 9s):
And they kind of lost touch for a little bit. And it turns out that she ended up having her relatives send her back east to Russian occupied area where maybe it's not the front line, but it's due to be dangerous soon. And Kuba, after he heard that, he went back to her house just to like look at it. And he saw the

4 (12m 31s):
House he, he evacuated her

5 (12m 33s):
From. That's right. And he went to look at it and he saw that like specifically her apartment had been destroyed by another strike. And I think he like felt sort of the sense of validation, like, you would've been killed if I had not taken you out. But she was still sort of unhappy and ended up going back to an occupied region.

4 (12m 53s):
What does she mean in a wild place?

5 (12m 56s):
I think she meant that it wasn't home. That's what I really think she meant.

4 (13m 6s):
But this show is not gonna be about nos or yeses. It's about people weighing when to go. And one reason Cuba and others go back to the same city again and again, is that sometimes a person who's been a no, no, no, no, no, for months is suddenly a yes, please. It is time. Valerie managed to reach someone. Cuba helped get out of Bach moot two months ago. That man Roman had been living there with his parents who were in their seventies. And he told Valerie what changed for him because he actually first met Cuba months ago and was like, now we're good. Even though things were bad,

10 (13m 49s):
I

5 (13m 50s):
Almost got killed nine times in Bachman. I got caught in gunfire, I got caught in explosions in the center of the city while I was crossing the Nikoli Key Bridge. Even there, I almost died. And, and at home I almost died. I mean, it was really serious, you know, I'm telling you nine times, you know, I was even talking to, to like Ukrainian military, and I was telling them, you know, I kind of got used to it already. And they said, that's a bad habit. And then things got worse and worse and worse.

5 (14m 31s):
And all of a sudden, like the telephone wires by our house we're all dangling. And then I saw that there was like gunfire on the, the houses, on the roads, on the fences. And then, you know, I just like went outside of my house and I just saw the bullets, like ricocheting. And I just thought, you know, that's it. I don't think we'll make it. And I started talking to my parents, you know, I just don't think we'll make it. And I told them, we gotta do something. It's either we leave or we die.

4 (15m 6s):
They decided to go. And there's a video of this evacuation too, Roman and his parents, Roman's father seems very frail in the video. One of the evacuators is helping his father sort of shuffle backward over this metal beam that's a makeshift bridge over a river. The father is holding on and moving very slowly,

10 (15m 30s):
But she

5 (15m 32s):
Was like an explosion. It was all black and it was just like, you know, at the house over my neighbor's house that it fell the missile. And then when we got out of there, I just said, wow, look how quiet it is. Like you can actually be here. You could just sit here and relax. And, and it was just like, it was where we lived that they were attacking, you know? And then when I got to, I started looking around and I saw civilization and light electricity and the trolley buses working, and I just felt this like sense of elation, a smile across my face or something.

5 (16m 16s):
Actually, the first time that they took these cookies out onto the table, I just, I felt so happy. It had been so long since I had even seen them, you know, do you understand? I, I hadn't seen like loaves of bread. Like sure I had coffee, but still that was hard to come by, you know, and cookies. And I had forgotten what that tasted like, and I just felt so amazing to have them finally. But to be totally honest, I still yearn to go to my place, to my home.

4 (17m 4s):
Today's show when to leave. How do you know when it's right to make a decision that is so often full of doubt, guilt, consequences for other people, and even afterward, sometimes forever afterward, regret and longing and second guesses. We have two stories today with high stakes and complicated choices. Stay with us. Act one first, do no harm.

4 (17m 45s):
Let's start right in with a calm, rational person assessing a new reality, getting a feel for what it means, and deciding what to do. Miki Meek Reports.

11 (17m 57s):
Amelia Hunsberger has a story. She tells about what it's like to work at a small rural hospital. She's an ob gyn in northern Idaho in a place called Sandpoint. In early on, she got called down to the emergency room to examine a woman. The woman had passed out, she was hemorrhaging a lot of blood. She was miscarrying.

12 (18m 16s):
I I took her to the operating room and I transfused a bunch of blood products. And her labs were starting to be a bit abnormal. And I asked for the lab to get me platelets. The nurse supervisor who was on that night said, oh, well we don't have those. And I said, oh, we, we don't, we don't have any platelets. Oh no, we don't have those in the blood bank Pier. Oh. So she told me that we could get them from Spokane. And I was like, great, well let's, let's activate that right away. And she said, oh, okay. Yeah, they come by taxi,

11 (18m 56s):
Like yellow cab taxi, right?

12 (18m 59s):
And I said, really seriously, like blood products are, are going to be put in a cab and then come to the hospital from Spokane, which is an hour and a half away, and we're in the winter. Then she said, yeah, they'll come by cab.

11 (19m 14s):
Most doctors fresh off years of training at fancy urban hospitals might look at an experience like this and wanna run from it. But for Amelia, this was her plan, her first choice. She grew up in a place like standpoint, beautiful rural, surrounded by mountains. She did her first delivery in middle school. It was a baby lamb. She used to help her dad out during Laming season. And all through med school. She was like, why shouldn't people in rural places get the best care? Amelia is someone who generally takes stuff on if it needs doing, whenever there's some unpaid committee job, no one wants Amelia signs up. Not in an ego way. It's more like, why wouldn't you do that?

11 (19m 56s):
Amelia's husband, Vince, he works at the same hospital. He's an ER doctor and he also grew up in a small town. They met in medical school and wanted to settle in a place like this because they knew rural hospitals desperately need doctors. Yes, practicing medicine here in standpoint means platelets arrive by taxi. But also Amelia said, you really get to know your patients. It's nice running into them all over town.

12 (20m 22s):
Half of the day is people that I know who I am delighted. Like, what are the updates? When's your granddaughter coming home? When somebody comes up to me and wants in the grocery store and wants to ask a question about vaginal discharge, that's not awesome. But when a patient comes up to me and wants to show me, you know, her grandchild, who I delivered, that's really delightful.

11 (20m 44s):
Amelia's whole life isn't standpoint. She and Vince have raised all three of their kids here recently. Her parents moved here too. But I've been talking to Amelia for months over the phone and in person, not because she loves the place, but because she thinks it might be time to leave. Amelia did not see herself as an abortion care provider. She's a general ob gyn. So she sees everyone from teenagers to 90 year olds. She does pap smears, prenatal care, breast exams, STIs, prescribes birth control, delivers babies. She's got the bulletin board to prove it.

11 (21m 26s):
And right now, there are lots of stories about pregnant people dealing with the fall of Roe versus Wade and changes in state laws. But this story is about their doctors. I started calling OBGYNs when the Supreme Court overturned Roe because I wanted to know what their jobs are like now and how they're changing. And I started hearing about doctors who were thinking of leaving their states because of new laws that criminalize a whole range of common OB GYN care. Idaho is one of those states. It passed some of the most restrictive abortion laws in the country, no exceptions for the health of a pregnant person, no exceptions to save the life of a pregnant person. Like here's how state Senator Todd Lakey, one of the sponsors of the bill that would soon become law, talked about what should happen in the case of, for instance, a serious pregnancy complication.

13 (22m 16s):
If the decision was based solely on a question of some type of health, then you're talking about taking the life of the unborn child. So that weighs more heavily than simply health. Go ahead. Thank

14 (22m 28s):
You Mr. Chairman. And just a follow up. So just, just I guess a yes or no, the health of the women's irrelevant, yes or no.

13 (22m 35s):
I would say it weighs less yes than the life of the child.

11 (22m 41s):
Lots of people had concerns about the laws. Even the governor who is anti-abortion sent a letter to the state Senate, sane that some parts of these bills would quote, in short order, be proven both unconstitutional and unwise. He signed them into law. Anyway, Idaho's new laws are also some of the most punitive toward doctors. They cover any pregnancy that has a quote fetal heartbeat. Though in the early stages, it's not a heartbeat. In a normal sense, it's electrical activity in some tissue that will eventually become the heart. The sound you hear with an ultrasound machine is created by the machine, but that counts as far as the law is concerned.

11 (23m 24s):
If a doctor does anything to terminate a pregnancy with a fetal heartbeat, they can be charged with a felony and imprisoned for up to five years, even if say they have a patient who is miscarrying bleeding uncontrollably and they're trying to save their life. Also, there's this phrase in Idaho's new laws affirmative defense. What this means is, in theory, the laws do allow for abortions in the case of rape, incest, or to save the life of a pregnant person. But if a doctor does that, they can be arrested and have to prove in court would say a report from the police attesting to rape or somehow proof that their patient would've died.

11 (24m 5s):
And a jury would have to agree Under Idaho's new laws. It's kind of like doctors are assumed guilty instead of assumed innocent until proven guilty. It doesn't sound legal, but it is. When the abortion ban went into effect after Roe was overturned, Amelia's first thought was not, we gotta leave standpoint. She was not at that stage. The stage she was at was, let's fight. If enough doctors speak out, if people understand the reality, they will understand the dangers of these laws and they'll wanna change them.

11 (24m 50s):
Amelia was already on a committee tracking maternal deaths. The state hadn't had one of those. She helped create one. She was also heading up the state chapter of the American College of Obstetrics and Gynecologists. Acog, no one else raised their hand to do it, but Amelia did. So naturally, when a lawsuit was filed against one of the new abortion laws in Idaho, Amelia was part of a coalition trying to change these laws. She knew the lawyers needed testimony from OBGYNs laying out specific emergency medical care they'd been providing for years that now under the new laws was criminal.

12 (25m 25s):
So I think, okay, well I'm gonna reach out to as many ob GYNs as I can think of and have contact information to, and just see if anybody would be willing, you know, to make a declaration. And then I, I kind of realize I myself have provided care like this.

11 (25m 45s):
So Amelia, who had started out trying to find other OBGYNs to write about their experiences to help change these new laws, instead started writing about herself, her own medical practice. She'd never thought of herself in the same category as providers of so-called elective abortions. What happens in abortion clinics? She thought of that as a different thing, even though she'd written the word abortion in her patient's medical charts for years. The medical term for miscarriages before 20 weeks is spontaneous abortion, about one in five pregnancies end this way. So she treats patients for this all the time. Anti-abortion rhetoric had so effectively separated abortion from healthcare that in a way it gotten separated in Amelia's head to Amelia, signed her declaration and submitted it, her written experiences and those of other OBGYNs, it all made a difference in the strictness of the law law.

11 (26m 44s):
A small but significant one. The day before the trigger laws in Idaho were about to go into effect, a federal judge agreed to allow emergency abortion procedures that go through actual emergency rooms for now. Did that feel like a big win?

12 (26m 60s):
Yeah, tremendous relief. Hopeful, you know, that felt like, okay, somebody is really seeing this with a clear eye and a rational mind and is like, well obviously this, you know, this doesn't make sense.

11 (27m 20s):
Every other part of the laws still went into effect the very next day. And around that time, the idea of leaving popped into Amelia's mind for the very first time. She popped it right back out.

12 (27m 32s):
Hold up, like pause. Like, let's just see, let's just see, let's just see. You know, the circumstances in Idaho are not set in stone. Things are still changing and moving. And so let's see kind of where this goes. Surely this is gonna be reigned in.

11 (27m 54s):
This is the same calculation. Some of the other doctors I've talked to are making wait and see, but one of the things they're all waiting and seen about is who will be the first ob GYN put on trial and possibly put in prison for providing healthcare to one of their patients? Amelia back at work had a whole bunch of new stuff to sort through in her mind with these laws. The new laws define abortion as the use of any means to intentionally terminate a clinically diagnosable pregnancy.

11 (28m 34s):
So ectopic pregnancies, for example, came up all the time in our clinic. An ectopic pregnancy means a fertilized egg is sitting outside of the uterus and sometimes has with a law calls a fetal heartbeat. It's not viable. It can be fatal. And the longer it sits there, the more danger the patient is in.

12 (28m 55s):
What am I supposed to do with a patient like this? Do I need to, you know, per the total abortion ban, I need to wait until she's really sick. I can't act just to protect her health. I should be waiting until I'm saving her life. This is totally opposite of my medical training.

11 (29m 18s):
Her medical training was try to stop things before they become life threatening. The solution used to be straightforward. She'd remove ectopic pregnancies with a quick surgical procedure or inject a drug that would end the pregnancy. One day Amelia had a patient like that. Their pregnancy test was positive, but Amelia could not find a fertilized egg in their uterus. An injection was clearly the best option. So while the patient was in the exam room, Amelia started calling administrators at her hospital asking, can I do this? She later talked to some lawyers about what she could do in this kind of situation.

12 (29m 57s):
One answer that I got was that it's probably 90% safe legally. What does that mean? So you're saying I have a one in 10 chance of spending two years in jail with a felony. Is, is that what you're telling me right now?

11 (30m 15s):
And what does that, and one in 10 sounds pretty risky,

12 (30m 19s):
Right? I got three kids. I, I mean, what, that's not reassuring to me. It's also not a definite answer. It's like, well, you know, like that. And then I have, you know, another lawyer who I've been in contact with who says, take care of the patient. Do what you've been trained to do, take care of the patient.

11 (30m 46s):
Amelia advised her patient to go to the er, the er, chaotic and personal and usually more expensive for the patient. But that's the only workaround she had to make sure the patient got the care they needed while protecting herself under these new laws. Amelia started sending all of her ectopic pregnancies to the er. Here's another thing, Amelia realized about the way the laws are set up. Even though ER doctors in Idaho should theoretically be protected from criminal prosecutions, a prosecutor could still decide to try and charge her husband Vince.

11 (31m 29s):
Anyways. And under the law as it stands, people can definitely sue doctors including ER doctors for damages. So it was dawning on Amelia that it was possible that she and Vince could both now be sued by multiple family members of a quote, pre-born child,

12 (31m 48s):
The father of the pre-born child, a grandparent of the pre-born child, a sibling of the pre-born child, or an aunt or uncle, or the pre-born child. So when I read this, does this mean that the father of a rapist, that the sister of rapists, that the brother of the rapist can sue the physician? It absolutely does.

11 (32m 12s):
Family members can each file individual separate lawsuits asking for a minimum of $20,000, and they have up to four years to file a lawsuit.

12 (32m 22s):
All right, back to the language of the law. Statutory damages in an amount, not less than $20,000. So just take note, instead of having, here's the ceiling, this is the maximum. We start with a minimum payout.

11 (32m 39s):
So all of that was on Amelia's mind. When another patient came into the clinic, she had an ectopic pregnancy that ruptured Amelia put a camera into her patient's abdomen.

12 (32m 49s):
And I'm like, oh my gosh, there is way more blood than there was described on the ultrasound that this person had 60 minutes ago. Like, we have got to move quickly,

11 (32m 59s):
The bleeding could kill her, and the way to stop the bleeding was to abort the pregnancy, which was never going to be viable anyway,

12 (33m 7s):
You know when you do surgery like that where it's an emergency and somebody's having ongoing active bleeding, that's already high stress and that's sort of high stress. Like I trained for that. I know what to do with that. I can handle that. Then you add in this other weird layer of like, is her brother gonna not understand that this was a not viable pregnancy and that her life was at risk? And like, what about her mom? What about her partner? What about her sister? Like, do these people understand how serious this condition is? Or do they only understand that I removed a pregnancy that had a heartbeat?

12 (33m 49s):
I don't know, how am I supposed to know?

11 (33m 52s):
She started looking at her patient's charts as evidence she might eat in court. She wrote down words like life threatening and high chance of mortality for some theoretical future lawsuit. Another case a patient came in to see her for a biopsy of the lining of the uterus. Amelia found herself worrying, wait, what if she's pregnant? The person had mentioned they hadn't been using contraception.

12 (34m 16s):
And so then I'm thinking, well, wait a minute. When was her last menstrual period? Like, we're definitely doing a urine pregnancy test, but like, what's the plausibility that there could be a pregnancy that isn't detectable yet? You know, super, super early stages. And so

11 (34m 33s):
In these early stages, a p test is not definitive. It can still come up as negative.

12 (34m 38s):
If I had a quarter for every single time that somebody said, there's no way I'm pregnant, and then, you know, has the positive pregnancy test, then you know, it'd be rich.

11 (34m 47s):
If there was any chance that this patient was pregnant, a biopsy could inadvertently terminate this patient's potential pregnancy.

12 (34m 55s):
So there's part of me that's like, we should not do anything today. She needs to use effective contraception for a month and then come back, you know, and then I can do this procedure once I am really sure that she's not pregnant. But that's also really impractical for this person who's driven hours to come see me and further, she has a medical problem that needs attention. She's already waited to see me. This visit has nothing to do with pregnancy.

11 (35m 26s):
Amelia didn't send her back, she treated her. This is what it means for Amelia to have these laws in her head all the time. To have to think of every single person who enters her, her office as pregnant or possibly pregnant, to have that become her constant focus. More and more she's finding that what she believes is good care. The kind she's obliged to provide under medical malpractice laws is in direct conflict with what the new laws say. And she knows these laws are in her patient's minds too, because they're asking her, will I get in trouble for this or that? Is this legal worrying about that on top of whatever actual medical problem they came to her for.

11 (36m 9s):
In other states, there have already been numerous reports about doctors delaying care for pregnant patients or even turning them away because of new laws criminalizing OBGYN care. Some patients have almost died and ended up in the ICU a million or husband for months were pinning their hopes on Idaho's Supreme court, overturning the state's abortion laws. That was their big wait and see while in the back of her mind there was this growing nagging feeling, will we be able to keep living here if the court's decision doesn't go our way?

12 (36m 46s):
You know, I'm just like so agitated as I am describing all of this and you know, like the intensity level is just so high for me. And my friend says, well, so when do you just like, put this all down and just take a break? And I'm, I'm thinking like, what, what does she mean? Take a break? How I can take a break? You know, I'm like literally vibrating out of my body. I mean, that's also a problem, that inability to kind of escape this, I dunno how to put it down, you know, just sort of this like walking around and like whether at work or at home and just like these, like deep sides, just feeling like there, see, I do it without even like, you know, thinking about it.

11 (37m 31s):
She was having trouble sleeping a first for her,

12 (37m 34s):
You know, laying awake at night and thinking about this or that. And I think just like the tension that you're holding in your body or having to think about taking a deep breath because you've been holding your breath all day.

11 (37m 48s):
Amelia and Vince have had some wild conversations in the last few months. They have talked about the possibility that both of them could end up in jail or face multiple lawsuits with potentially massive civil penalties or lose their medical licenses. Chances are probably small, but also it's impossible to be sure

12 (38m 7s):
What happens if both of us are in jail for two years, who's raising our kids? I mean, we know, yeah, we have a plan for our kids. Like if that happened, what is your plan? You know, family,

11 (38m 25s):
She didn't wanna say more about who exactly their kids 11, eight and six years old would go to. It was the first time I'd seen her look physically uncomfortable answering a question. She kind of pursed her lips and shook her head. No, she just couldn't go there. A couple months ago, a few things happened that moved the idea of leaving from the back of Amelia's mind to the front. The first took place in a car parked outside the state capitol in Boise. She was with another ob gyn. They'd been talking to the people in the governor's office about expanding Medicaid coverage for people who'd just given birth.

11 (39m 7s):
So they were sitting in Amelia's rental car and her friend turned to her,

15 (39m 10s):
And she had told me at that point that she was kind of deciding between different job options,

11 (39m 18s):
Job options in another state. This was a huge blow to Amelia. She'd been a key ally in this fight. Then right after that conversation, Amelia caught up with another friend, a lawyer who'd also been fighting these laws. Amelia remembers her saying,

15 (39m 37s):
I haven't told many people this yet, but you know, I'm planning to leave. Like, so in the same day in Boise, these two people who I respect and admire and trust told me this state is not a place for me anymore. And I, I'm planning my exit.

11 (40m 1s):
And then the state Supreme Court ruling, she and her husband Vince had been waiting for, came down, Amelia was at home. And on her day off when it happened,

15 (40m 11s):
I happened to look at my email and there was this message from one of the lawyers that just said in the subject line, like, Supreme Court decision out, not good, we'll follow up later. And it was, you know, it just kind of was panicked of like, what, what, what does this mean? You know? And then, so I'm trying to do this Google search, nothing comes up. And so then I'm like, well, I gotta go, I gotta pick up my kids. So I get my car and I drive to school pickup, and then I'm waiting in line and you're like, the car's in park. Then I pull up my emails again to just try to see can I find anything about this? And then other people are, you know, linking to a summary and this and that, and I'm sobbing, right? Like I, you know, it's just like, you know, the Supreme Court and Idaho believes that all three abortion laws are constitutional.

11 (40m 58s):
The court carved out one small exception, ectopic pregnancies, but not miscarriages, not deadly fetal anomalies or anything else. Amelia broke the news to Vince. She says, the first question he asked her was,

15 (41m 12s):
You know, is this, is this it? Like, is this the, is this the tipping point? Was his question to me, is this a place that we can continue to live and practice medicine and raise our family?

11 (41m 26s):
What'd you say?

15 (41m 27s):
Yeah, I think I'm, I'm not at the tipping point yet. And I, I asked back to him like, are you, is this like the nail in the coffin for you? Like, are, are you done? And you know, we're not there yet, right? Like, we're not at the tipping point yet.

11 (41m 42s):
Do you know what your tipping point is?

15 (41m 47s):
No. I'm, I'm not, I'm not sure. I, obviously, the Supreme Court decision is a, is a big blow. And I don't know exactly where that line is of what I can tolerate.

11 (42m 5s):
Vince's job in the ER still had some protection that federal court ruling still holds for now, allowing emergency abortion procedures that go through actual emergency rooms. But everything felt precarious. Amelia Vis now talk about leaving almost every day. Sometimes leaving can be an active protest, but Amelia feels like it would be a retreat, a giving in. Like, I can save myself, but I'd be leaving my patients behind. She's worried that if she, her clinic could collapse. She's one of only four OBGYNs and one of the others is thinking about leaving two. Amelia says if they did leave first, she'd probably have to leave two.

11 (42m 49s):
If Amelia or one of her colleagues does leave standpoint, the options for finding a replacement are bleak. The last time an OB OBGYN left her clinic, it took them two years to find another one. And that was before Rofe. Idaho already has a severe shortage of doctors, one of the worst in the country.

15 (43m 8s):
I was, you know, looking at social media and somebody was talking about a person who was completing their OBGYN residency and was looking to come to the Pacific Northwest. And there was all this, Hey, we've got an opening in Washington, we've got an opening in Oregon, we've got openings in Montana. And I'm like, Hey, there's all sorts of openings in Idaho. And then I'm like laughing out loud because I'm like, who is gonna be finishing their residency training and being like, I definitely wanna go to the state with the super strict abortion laws that criminalize healthcare. I mean, I just, I like literally laughed out loud and like, that's awful, right? Like, I'm laughing about how ridiculous it is that somebody would choose to come and practice medicine here.

15 (43m 52s):
That's terrible. Like, that should be very alarming to anyone. But I didn't, I was like, it's like you laugh so you don't cry. Like, I don't even know, you know, I just, yeah.

11 (44m 3s):
Did you post there's tons of openings at Idaho, or you did you know better?

15 (44m 6s):
I sure did. And I was like, I mean, but then you have to deal with the laws here. But I'm like, legit, if you're willing to deal with the laws, I will hook you up. I know all the people who are looking like, I got you, but you're not gonna wanna come here. Are you kidding me? I know that. I mean, if you do wanna come here, cool. Like, like I said, I'll help you

11 (44m 32s):
If one is never leave and 10 is, we gotta go. Like, where are you on that spectrum right now?

12 (44m 41s):
I don't know how to answer that.

11 (44m 42s):
What makes it hard?

12 (44m 48s):
I don't wanna leave

2 (44m 49s):
Here,

12 (44m 52s):
You know, and, and just turning it into something more black and white, like a number scale does, feels hard. I mean, I don't wanna leave, but I don't know if I can stay.

11 (45m 9s):
Some doctors have decided to leave. I talked to two OBGYNs. One had just left Texas. The other Tennessee, their jobs are different from Amelia's because they're high risk obese. And so they're seeing some of the most difficult cases. They told me they were just like Amelia, when new abortion laws went into effect in their states, they also wanted to stay. And they also didn't know what their tipping point was and wanted to keep treating their patients. And each of them described the same kind of moment to me one day. They found themselves in a terrible situation with a patient brought on by trying to comply with the new laws. One of them had to send a patient to another state in an ambulance.

11 (45m 49s):
It was a five hour ride, the patient's blood pressure was rising. And by the time she got to a hospital, her kidneys were starting to fail. The other doctor had to turn away, a patient pregnant with twins. One of the twins was going to die, and the doctor needed to intervene to save the other's life. But he couldn't because of the laws. He doesn't know what happened to the patient, but he knew I need to leave.

4 (46m 23s):
Miki Meek, she's one of the producers of our show coming up, is there a statute of limitations on telling a friend, I thought you were way off base. We'll find out together that's in a minute. From Chicago Public Radio, when our program continues,

BetterHelp (46m 47s):
Support for this American life comes from better help. Getting to know yourself can be a lifelong process, especially since you're always growing and changing. Therapy is all about deepening that self-awareness because sometimes you don't know what you really want until you talk things through. Better Help connects you with a licensed therapist online who can take you on that journey of self-discovery from wherever you are. Visit better help.com/taal today to get 10% off your first month. That's better help h e l p.com/t a l

Indeed (47m 19s):
Support For this American Life comes from. Indeed. What's better than finding quality candidates? Finding them instantly for a powerful hiring partner, you need indeed Hate Waiting. Indeed's US data shows over 80% of Indeed employers find quality candidates whose resume on indeed matches their job description. The moment they sponsor a job. Indeed knows that when you're doing everything for your company you can't afford to overspend on hiring. Visit indeed.com/american to start hiring now. Just go to indeed.com/american indeed.com/american terms and conditions Apply Cost application pricing not available for everyone need to hire. You need indeed.

4 (47m 57s):
It's this American Life. I'm Nancy Updyke sitting in for Ira Glass. Today's show When to Leave or if Word, act two of two. Act two, the Leaving Expert. The whole idea for this show came from me reading a story by Masha Gessen, a New Yorker story. Masha is a staff writer there, reports a lot on Russia among many other subjects. Masha grew up in the Soviet Union, then moved to the United States as a teenager and lives here now. The New Yorker story was all about leaving, about Russian's leaving Russia. Masha was just about to board a plane to Russia when Russia invaded Ukraine a year ago.

4 (48m 41s):
And almost immediately after landing, Masha started hearing from people, from friends about leaving.

18 (48m 48s):
I'm trying to think who the first person was. I think it was actually Vera, my closest friend. And I think that the conversation was sort of, you know, we're thinking of leaving, we're thinking of getting tickets to Georgia. Vera has family in Georgia. Do you think we should go now or in a couple of months when our 16 year old gets her foreign travel passport, was it still going to be viable to leave in a couple of months? Were they going to close the borders? But it still felt almost abstract. And then like a couple of days later, she said, we're leaving Wednesday.

4 (49m 28s):
And then while Marsha was at Vera's place for their goodbye gathering,

18 (49m 33s):
Another mutual friend of ours came by and he was sort of saying, why do you feel like you have to leave? Like, what's, what's the big deal? There's always time.

4 (49m 44s):
Not an unreasonable question. Marsha thought at the time that night overnight more leaving Marsha went to the last independent television station in Russia, tv, rain, and saw a whole scene unfolding. Staffers at the station had gotten word that the prosecutor's office was investigating TV rain for quote extremism, which meant any one of them could go to jail for years. Staffers also heard that special forces were coming to search the studios. Other media outlets had been searched before and people had been roughed up. So staff members who were at the station

18 (50m 21s):
Ran out of the building, sort of huddled in a pub outside trying to book tickets on their cell phones. So there was like this sort of call response where people would be like, Eck two tickets. You know, I'm grabbing the You

4 (50m 37s):
Write like an auction. Yeah,

18 (50m 38s):
Yeah. Do wasn't it an auction? It's,

4 (50m 41s):
I mean, I know they wanna auctioning them off, but this sort of,

18 (50m 43s):
But, but yeah, there, there, there, yeah, there was, and, and, and a sense of, of rush and just like, you know, very adrenaline and very desperate. And then the next day I went to visit other friends and, and I walked in and I realized, oh, this is their goodbye party,

4 (51m 8s):
My God.

18 (51m 9s):
And, and so the friend from the night before, the one who had been asking, you know, what's the point, was also there. And he said, I'm leaving tomorrow. And that was just, you know, like, I mean, he looked like he was shell shocked because I think that there, something had changed inside him that

4 (51m 32s):
From one day to the next,

18 (51m 33s):
From one day to the next, and he wasn't even, he couldn't process what had changed. He knew it had changed and he knew he was leaving and he was shocked by what he was doing.

4 (51m 43s):
Within a week, all of Marsha's friends had left Russia, all of them.

18 (51m 49s):
And I don't wanna say that they're running for their lives, which is another very important aspect of this, of this whole immigration, is because people are acutely aware that they, that they're not running for their lives. That they're in fact, other people who were running for their lives at that very same time in Ukraine because of the same war. Yeah. Right. Yeah. But, but that they're running to, to salvage their sense of selves and, and, and, and to be able to be in the world.

4 (52m 17s):
It's hard to gauge how many Russians have left the country in the last year. Tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands. It's a lot. Whatever it is, people have left for all sorts of reasons. One reason new laws.

18 (52m 32s):
There were a couple of different laws that they passed a week after the full scale invasion began. One that made it punishable to call the war war. And another was that made it a crime to discredit their armed forces of Russia. Right.

4 (52m 50s):
And that's one of those, that's one of those wide, you know, wide angle laws that you can do that without realizing that's what you're doing. You know, if somebody really wants to,

18 (52m 59s):
That's exactly make the case. Right. Right. So in a way it's a more insidious law than, than than the, you know, because calling a war war, I mean, you know what you're supposed to do, you're not, you know, what you're not supposed to do. But of course, terror works much more effectively through laws that are vague and that can't possibly be uniformly applied.

4 (53m 25s):
There's another reason I wanted to talk to Marsha in particular about leaving. Marsha is a bit of a leaving expert, like I said, not just as a reporter, but in their own life. Marsha has moved countries three times each time with no idea if they would ever live there again. The first time was when Marsha was 14 years old, and the whole family left the Soviet Union to come to America. Then Marsha moved back to Russia in the nineties. They went in 1991 on a reporting assignment. The Soviet Union was in the final stages of unmaking itself. And what was left was the most exciting place on earth to Maha.

4 (54m 7s):
It was Russia remaking itself. Maa also felt something unexpected there. They felt at home, a profound experience after so long away, MAA spent the next 22 years living there. Loved it, never wanted to leave. And then Marsha did leave Russia and move back here. Seeing their friends leave now reminded Marsha of just how hard that decision had been to know when to leave. It was also about new laws,

18 (54m 41s):
Even when they were considering the first law against so-called L G B T propaganda to minors. It seems so absurd, right?

4 (54m 51s):
This was back in 2012,

18 (54m 53s):
And I was like, I was supposed to testify, this was still at a time when one, one, like someone like me might go and testify in the Human rights Council. And then the person who was organizing the hearing said, yeah, just, you know, there's no way they're gonna pass it. We're not gonna hold a hearing. Let's, let's, let's, let's not draw more attention to it. And then of course they passed it and the parliament started talking about removing children from families. And I went to protest and got beaten up and, you know, it's not like it was news, right? But I'd never actually been beaten up before. So

4 (55m 30s):
Do you think you were targeted specifically, or

18 (55m 31s):
You Yes, I was definitely targeted specifically like in broad daylight with the police looking on. It's, it's a profound experience even if you know that that sort of thing happens to, to other people, even people, you know. And, and then they passed a law banning adoption by people who are in same sex relationships or have citizenships of countries where same-sex marriage is legal and my oldest son is adopted. So then it was just like, you know, we have to leave. And that

4 (56m 6s):
Now grabs you and your family so specifically.

18 (56m 11s):
Exactly. So we put my oldest son on a plane. And then how old was he? He was 14.

4 (56m 22s):
14 is the same age Marsha was when the family left the Soviet Union. A whole cycle of leaving and leaving again. Marsha told me that in the mix of feelings they've had in the last year, seeing and talking to friends who've left Russia is a strange kind of relief

18 (56m 49s):
In a way. You know, the world has become kind of mentally more, it, it makes more sense, right? We're to you, to, to me and to us as, as a group that we're like on the same side of not only the mental border, but the, but the physical border.

4 (57m 6s):
For years after Marsha left, while friends stayed, Marsha sometimes wondered worried, did I make the right call by leaving? Could I have stayed too?

18 (57m 17s):
There was an nagging thought of like, oh, well maybe it was possible to live there. And so maybe I overreacted, maybe, maybe I was hysterical about Putin. I mean, he's terrible, but how terrible is he? And now a lot of that is just, that's, that's just, that's just gone. Like he is as terrible as, as, as, as anyone has ever been. I was definitely not hysterical and no, it's wasn't actually possible to have a life there.

4 (57m 45s):
And are people saying that to you? Like, is anyone saying to you, you know, I thought actually you were a little off the deep end, like, and now now I see what you mean or something.

18 (57m 57s):
Yeah, yeah. People have said that. And, and it's funny because I even heard it from people who didn't actually say to me, you know, you're crazy years ago. But now I said, okay, you know, I thought you were a little maybe overreacting a little, but I was wrong.

4 (58m 17s):
These conversations just seem so strange to me to have somebody say that. And to, I, I don't know, it seems so sad. That's like, ah, yeah, I kind of wish you were right. I wish I had reacted

18 (58m 31s):
Exactly. And I mean, that was always my sort of go-to phrase, like, you know, I'll be really happy if you prove me wrong.

4 (58m 42s):
Yeah, yeah.

18 (58m 49s):
But, you know, just if I'm being emotionally honest about it, of course, please. Of course. I don't wish I'd been, i'd overreacted because the amount of regret I'd have if I'd overreacted would be unmanageable. So it's not like I've, you know, I'm full of sheen for, for, for, for having told you so. But there's a, yeah, there's an odd sort of emotional peace with having things fall into place.

4 (59m 19s):
I asked Masha if they ever think about leaving this country. Marsha had a few different answers to that. My brain bookmarked this one.

18 (59m 27s):
I mean, dissidents, Soviet dissonance were great for setting down rules to live by. And I think one of the rules was your useless in prison or dead. But as long as you're not in prison or dead and you're not, you know, you're not facing a significant risk of going to prison or being dead. Make a difference where you are. I think that's a pretty, like this country is so far from our losing the ability to make a difference.

4 (59m 59s):
Yeah, yeah. Yeah. I guess I wonder if, if you, if you have an eye on, on laws changing here, I mean, you know, laws that would feel threatening to you personally.

18 (1h 0m 17s):
I mean, I think that when, once you've immigrated once in your life, it's always a possibility. So yeah, it's, you know, even though I, I'm not actively thinking about leaving the United States, it's not, it's not a crazy possibility for me. Right. It could happen. I mean, personally, you know, it's, it's, it's complicated. Cause I have kids here and two of them are semi grown. So, so then you become, you know, you, you, you start having other kinds of roots. But if, for example, and this is not a, a terribly unlikely scenario, you know, it becomes impossible to get hormone treatment in this country.

18 (1h 1m 0s):
You know, that for me would be a, a question of my personal health and I'd probably actually have to leave. Yeah.

4 (1h 1m 8s):
When I first started making this show, I imagined it being about leaving all sorts of places, but it's all about the same place home. A place you love. If you're lucky, you have some choice in the matter and time to think about it, but it's a choice to break your own heart.

19 (1h 1m 51s):
She said, it's none of my business, but it bricks my, I dropped a dozen Jeeps in my shopping car, made it up to the truck without breaking down. Everybody knows you in a speed trap. It's the Thursday night, but there's a high school game. Sneak a bottle up the bleachers and forget my name.

19 (1h 2m 31s):
These five air throw a shallow cross. It's a boy's last dream and a man's first loss. And it never did me till night. There's no one left until I'm straight enough inside. If there's anything, it can't be left behind.

4 (1h 3m 12s):
Today's show was produced by Diane Wu and Chris Benderev. The people who put together today's show include Jane Ackerman, F Benon, Zoe Chase, Sean Cole, Michaele of Kornfeld, Cassie Howley, Valerie Kipp, Seth Lind, aah, Mustafa Stone, Nelson, Katherine Rayo, Nadia Raymond, Ryan Rumie, Alyssa Ship, Elise Spiegel, Eli Sullivan, Christopher Sala, Marissa Robertson Texter, and Matt Tierney. The managing editor is Sarah Abdurahman, senior editor is David Kestenbaum. Our executive editor is Emmanuel Berry. Special thanks to Agneshka Susko, Kylie Cooper, Wendy Hype Lela, Zaha Pung, Alireza sh Alison Block, Kate Connors, Rachel King, Mary Ziegler, David Childs and Cheryl Stray.

4 (1h 4m 6s):
Our website, this american life.org, where you can stream our archive of over 750 episodes for absolutely free. Again, this american life.org, this American Life is delivered to public radio stations by prx, the Public Radio Exchange. Thanks and happy birthday Ara to our boss, IRA Glass. You know, I once saw him get recognized for his voice, and he does have mixed feelings sometimes about the questions people ask when they recognize me in public.

12 (1h 4m 35s):
When somebody comes up to me and wants in the grocery store and wants to ask a question about vaginal discharge, that's not awesome.

4 (1h 4m 43s):
I'm Nancy Updyke. Join us next week for more stories of this American life.

19 (1h 5m 16s):
When the sun came on, so left a couple hours in Cup truck, drank a cup of coffee by an Indian man, thousand miles away from thousand miles away from

1 (1h 5m 50s):
Next week on the podcast of this American life. When Ginger Kumer heard that in Savannah, Georgia, they do ghost tours of the city that actually include the brutal reality of slavery. He had to go see it for himself. He thought White Southerners are talking about this stuff. What he saw was and was not that.

20 (1h 6m 9s):
Well, ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the spirits and SCO Rules tour.

1 (1h 6m 14s):
This is next week on the podcast or in your local public radio station.