0 (1s):
Shunta is not somebody you believed in ghosts when her mom died this past may. Do you remember seeing her lying there and feeling the finality of it? Like she's gone? It felt real, but three days later this thing started happening.

1 (17s):
I was just laying on the bed, like scrolling on my phone and it, it felt like somebody was suddenly there. Like it was a surprise. I was like, oh, oh, hi. Hi.

0 (31s):
It was your mom.

1 (32s):
And my mom was like, oh, sorry, sorry to scare you, but just make sure you get to the funeral early so you get a good parking spot. And I was like, oh, okay. Thanks.

0 (48s):
That was it. No important messages from the other side, not even an I love you.

1 (53s):
Yeah, that would've been great. But then she did always really care about good parking spots.

0 (59s):
She goes to Las Vegas, you wanna get a spot that's in the shade. That's key. I'm not saying I love you. Typical,

1 (1m 6s):
Like she wasn't a particularly mushy person. So if she had said something more emotional, it wouldn't have been her. And this was her just completely being herself.

0 (1m 22s):
Can I ask wa was it frightening?

1 (1m 25s):
No. It was more funny than anything else. I was like, you're going to use all of your energy and power from the beyond to tell me about parking.

0 (1m 40s):
To be clear, Shante didn't actually see her mom. She just felt her presence, like a person sitting beside her. She says she didn't think too hard about whether it was real or not. Mostly she just liked it. Her mom dropping in like that. She and her mom always really enjoyed each other, made each other laugh, liked hanging out. And her mom died relatively young, 61 years old from a degenerative disease. She was struggling to speak. She was in a lot of pain. It was nice to think of her past all that. And then it happened a second time, a few weeks later, Shante was back home in New York City over 2,500 miles from Vegas where her mom lived and died. How it ghost would get from one part of the country to another is a question that I certainly would have if I believed in Ghost.

0 (2m 23s):
Does it? You know, just jump on a commercial jet. In any case, Shante is on her couch.

1 (2m 30s):
I was, again, scrolling on my phone. I'm just like shopping for shoes or something. And again, she just pops up like, oh, you know, and it startled me and it almost startled her that I saw her like that. I recognized her and she apologizes for startling me. And I'm like, it's okay. Just figure out what you wanna say. And she says, I don't want your dad to be sad. And I said, why don't you tell him that you don't want him to be sad? And she says, but he doesn't listen like you do. And then I thought about how even in life I was the translator between my parents.

1 (3m 15s):
Like, oh, is that true? I was the mediator between them.

0 (3m 17s):
Oh, she would, she would give you messages to take to your dad. Yeah.

1 (3m 20s):
Yeah.

0 (3m 22s):
Did you get a chance to ask any other questions?

1 (3m 25s):
No, I just said, okay, you know, I'll carry the message. No problem.

0 (3m 29s):
Wait, didn't you have questions? Like, what happens to us after we die? Where are you? What is this experience like?

1 (3m 37s):
Okay, if she visits again, I'll make sure to ask. It did not even occur to me at the time.

0 (3m 43s):
Really?

1 (3m 44s):
Yeah.

0 (3m 46s):
You know, like all of humanity would wanna know the answer. I mean, I'm speaking on behalf of myself, but also on behalf of all other living people.

1 (3m 55s):
This is true. This is true. Okay. If she comes again, I will ask her and get back to you.

0 (4m 2s):
Shante did the message to her dad who told Shante? Yeah, her mom's right, he doesn't listen so well sometimes the third and last time her mom showed up again. Shante was sitting on the couch.

1 (4m 15s):
This time I was watching tv and then she decided to appear while I was watching tv. So I had to like pause it and I was like, okay, what, what is it this time? And she's like, oh, I just wanted to show you what I've been up to and why I haven't been talking to you. I'm like taking care of this girl. Like she always liked taking care of kids. And so that's what she said she's doing right now in the other realm is like she's taking care of another kid. And I was like, okay, so you're hanging out with another daughter? I'm here. You could hang out with me.

0 (4m 52s):
Wait, did you say that?

1 (4m 54s):
I wasn't gonna say it to her.

0 (4m 56s):
Okay. All

1 (4m 57s):
Right. I just thought it, wait,

0 (4m 59s):
Did you have the feeling of like, in some way she wanted you to give her permission to do that?

1 (5m 3s):
Yes. She wanted to show me why she hadn't been around. Ah. And so that's a little bit permission, but it's also, I'm doing this, so like I'm busy. I'm busy. Yeah.

0 (5m 20s):
It's actually how her mom was often in life off busy doing her own thing. And can I say this is not what Shante wants to hear from her dead mother. And she does know what she wants. She wants her mother to say something about her, what she meant to her mom.

1 (5m 37s):
I'm super curious. Like she was such an independent person and she wasn't particularly expressive with emotion or affection. And so you always wonder like, who, who am I to you? It's,

0 (5m 58s):
Yeah, you're saying, you're saying like you, you want one more sign from her that she really loved you. Yeah. Yeah. And she just is not delivering.

1 (6m 5s):
She is not delivering,

0 (6m 8s):
You know, this is like a well known psychological phenomenon that like after somebody dies, they appear in some form that seems very real to the people who are closest to them. Like, like they'll see them, they'll hear their voice, they'll feel their presence. This is like a well known thing going back to the 19th century. Like Freud wrote about it and called it wishful psychosis. And there's a study in the 1970s of it was of 293 Welsh widowers and widows, and it found that nearly half of them said their spouse had returned.

1 (6m 42s):
Yeah. That seems to be what has happened. I'm like, is this some sort of self soothing, is this some kind of glitch in my brain? Glitch of grief? Something like that.

0 (6m 59s):
Like we want to be haunted.

1 (7m 1s):
Oh yeah.

0 (7m 2s):
But if this is you, like trying to comfort yourself in some way, you're doing such a bad job. I mean, she's not saying the thing you want her to say to comfort

1 (7m 11s):
You. Not at all. Yeah, it's, it's, it's not working.

0 (7m 16s):
Well. This is the problem with ghosts is that they're, they don't do what we want them to.

1 (7m 21s):
No, she's not at all.

0 (7m 29s):
What are they on our program? The problem with ghosts, we expect such specific things from them and they so rarely deliver. We really do want them to be something they're not, which frankly is so unfair. They're dead. And still they're supposed to put up with other people's expectations. Don't we at least get relief from that in the great beyond. Today on our program, we have stories of all kinds of ghosts. Ghosts who have been ignored and misunderstood. Famous ghosts. The ghosts who have ghosted. Those who love them. Yes, they ghosted. Why do you think they call them ghosts? From WBE Z Chicago. This is American life. I'm Eric Glass. Stay with us.

0 (8m 14s):
Next one. The Ghost Industrial Complex. What people want from ghosts in Savannah, Georgia couldn't be clearer. They want a good scare. Ghost tours are a thriving part of the tourism business. There

3 (8m 26s):
Still, till this day, people passing by or window late in the evening can occasionally still spot our ghosts. Sitting there

0 (8m 32s):
Every night in Savannah, the historic district is packed with ghost tours, guides, taking people around with ridiculous ghost detecting equipment tours and open top hearses. There's a lot of drinking on these tours. A journalist podcaster that. A bunch of us here at the radio show note C Kuka recently heard from a friend of his George, who's an eighth generation Savannah, has something weird is happening on these ghost tours, George Tok, that the guides actually talk about the brutal reality of slavery. Cre thought really on these tours, they're gone for that. CRE was the co-host of the podcast on civil, which documented the typical ways that white southerners present the history of the South and what they usually leave out, like the violence of slavery.

0 (9m 15s):
So he wanted to see for himself what was happening. I went down to Savannah.

4 (9m 20s):
I went on a bunch of these ghost tours. My friend George told me to be sure that I went on one called the Spirits and Scoundrels tour. I pulled up on it about 10:00 PM on a Saturday night was being led by an older white dude dressed like a pirate with baggy pants and a black scarf around his head. Silver rings and daggers hanging from his waist kind of jingled when he

5 (9m 42s):
Walked. Well ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the Spirits and Scoundrels tour. I guarantee you we will be walking on the dead this evening. And as far as I know, we may well be standing on some, as I'm speaking,

4 (10m 2s):
As we walked every once in a while, he would stop our group in front of one of these large mansions and tell us about a murder and some kind of ghost sighting. All of this was totally predictable on a ghost tour and also part of why I'm not into ghost tours. But then the pirate pointed down to these bricks and said they were sunken down in the sidewalk because there were bodies of people buried beneath us.

5 (10m 26s):
I told you I was going to have us walking on the dead this evening, didn't I? By Holly? I didn't monkey round by getting you on them either. These bricks we're walking on are the original bricks handmade by the enslaved folks in Savannah. You'll see these all over the historic district, and when you do take a moment to look at them closely, because you can often find the indentations of the fingers of the brick maker. You can see the pinky finger, the index finger, the, you know what finger, the small size of these indicates the brick maker was either a woman or a child.

4 (11m 17s):
Suddenly we weren't just talking about ghosts anymore. The pirate had snatched us into this kind of weird black history archeology moment. Honestly, it caught me off guard. Keep in mind, people are walking past us with beers in their hands. It's not quite New Orleans, but it's definitely a downtown drinking vibe. The pirate knelt down and held his fingers above the indentations in the bricks.

5 (11m 42s):
When I find them always like to put my fingers in them, I feel like it gives me a connection with the brick maker.

4 (11m 50s):
When white people acknowledge slavery, I'm not gonna, not gonna tell him don't do that. But at this moment, I'm not sure I'm buying this connection. This was a tour guy dressed like a pirate leading mostly white folks who were here to find ghosts. The only other black guy on the tour was this dude who was maybe in his thirties. And I couldn't help but notice him. Clearly we were not the target demographic for this tour. When we saw each other, he gave me the nod. I walked over to him, how you feel, bro? You feel like you just learned some black history? Come on man. Come on man. He looked directly at me and scrunched up his face. Like, if you look up seriously, bro, in the dictionary, this guy's face would be there.

4 (12m 34s):
I couldn't help but laugh. We both did. His name was Greg. Soon enough, we had another weird slavery moment on the tour. We stopped in front of a big mansion called the Mercer Williams house. According to the story, the former owner of the property, hum Mercer, told eight of his enslaved people to stand in the front of the house and then

5 (12m 56s):
Ordered him to face to the east, kneel down. And before anybody knew what was happening is alleged to have pulled his pistol from his pocket, walked behind them, pop, pop, pop, pop, shot all eight of them. In the back of the head

4 (13m 17s):
Is the pirate, imitated the sound of the gun. He also acted out the whole thing, pointing his fingers at imaginary black heads in front of us.

5 (13m 26s):
He then is alleged to have taken two bodies and put 'em on each corner of the mansion. Their heads coming together at the corner and the foundation stones laid on top of them. This was likely some type of voodoo ritual.

4 (13m 49s):
After that horrifying detail, he's on to the next thing,

5 (13m 52s):
1860,

4 (13m 53s):
Like that was just another fun little story. I fell back from the group to walk next to Greg. Amen. So what'd you think? What'd you think about that? Man, we skipped over a whole lot of <unk> now. No, we did. I'm still stuck on who built the house, the groundwork and that story about all 'em enslaved people. They have names, you know, who were they? Why were they shot? That's what's invested game. I wondered the same thing. I wanted to hear more about the black folks in these stories, not just their deaths. And in every tour I went on, this happened over and over. Gods would breeze through these violent stories of enslaved people getting killed for pure shock value or laughs like when the pirate took us to what he said was a slave burial ground.

4 (14m 43s):
He said the bodies were pretty much just thrown in the dirt. And then he kept that off with a joke.

5 (14m 48s):
And that's why we think we have such lush, beautiful green grass here.

4 (14m 53s):
Other graphic moments of terror or trauma got other punchlines. One tour guide told us about four runaway slaves who are beheaded and joked that their ghosts haunt the square. And if you listen close, you can hear them singing. I ain't got nobody. I think I was expecting these tours to acknowledge slavery in a way that would check a woke box or something. A few somber sentences acknowledging that slavery was bad before they got back to ghosts. But this was more than that. They were really going in. A lot of this stuff was cartoonish and stereotypical, but intentionally or unintentionally, they were doing something.

4 (15m 34s):
I've called for many times getting groups of white people to confront the violence and cold bloodedness of slavery. And why were southern mostly white people paying to go on these tours in their time off. It's almost like if you turn critical race theory into a book of ghost stories, all the white folks who hate it would love it. I talked to someone who had an explanation for why this is happening. Ty Miles is a historian at Harvard and she stumbled onto a tour like this, kind of on a whim.

6 (16m 3s):
I was visiting Savannah. It happened to have been a rainy set of days that I walked by a home called the So Weed house. As I walked by, I was called and beckoned in by a woman who was standing outside trying to encourage people to come take a tour.

4 (16m 28s):
This tour is presented to TAA as a historical tour, not a ghost tour. Ty loves going on history tours.

6 (16m 35s):
I had never heard of this house before and I was curious. So I went in, I took the tour and that's where I learned about Molly.

4 (16m 47s):
Molly is the person at the center of what's probably the most popular ghost story down in Savannah. Her story is the spooky climax of nearly all the tours, the tour guides, all stop in front of a big orange mansion with palm trees and Spanish moss and the way they tell it. This black woman, Molly, who lived and died in the house, was owned by a wealthy and influential businessman named Francis Sorell and his wife Matilda. Molly's caught up in a love triangle. Francis is having an affair with her. That's the word they use, only Matilda. His wife has no idea. Then one night Matilda walks in on Francis and Molly and catches them in the act.

4 (17m 28s):
Matilda is so distraught to learn that her husband is cheating, that she walks out on the balcony and jumps to her death. Some even believe she was pushed. A few weeks later, Molly is found dead, hanging from the rafters in the slave quarters. Francis is a suspect in both deaths. Tours all over the city. Exploit this tragedy by claiming Molly still haunts the house where she was murdered. And remember, because these are ghost stories, they get told with a whole bunch of embellishment and they're slightly different versions on different tours.

7 (18m 0s):
I will say though, what's interesting is Matilda, she was actually really close to Molly. Molly was kind of like an unofficial therapist for her, like a confidant

4 (18m 8s):
In some tourists. Molly and Matilda come off as if they were lesbian lovers. Here's a letter. Molly supposedly wrote

5 (18m 15s):
My beloved sister Matilda, how I yearn for just the slightest whiff of your exquisite perfume.

4 (18m 23s):
And one guide went as far as to add a detail about Matilda holding a hot bowl of soup when she walked in on Molly and Francis

8 (18m 30s):
Goes up the stairs of the carriage house, opens the door with a bowl of chicken noodle in her hand,

5 (18m 35s):
And there's France wall and Molly getting it on.

9 (18m 39s):
The next thing anyone knew, they heard a terrible cracking noise and they rushed to the courtyard to go see what it was. And they found Matilda lying dead in the courtyard with a broken neck.

8 (18m 50s):
Molly was found hung in her room. A week later.

4 (18m 55s):
There was only one tour guide who talked about it differently, not coincidentally, the only non-white tour guide. We had a Latina guide named Sarah

10 (19m 4s):
Because of the power structure that this was someone who was owned by Francis. This was not consensual for both people. This was definitely a rape.

4 (19m 13s):
That's how TAA saw it too.

6 (19m 15s):
Everyone uses this word affair. To my mind, the way I interpret it was she had been exploited, she had been abused, and she had experienced terrible pain and suffering.

4 (19m 27s):
After that first daytime tour where TAA learned about Molly, she came back for a nighttime tour, which takes you to the room where Molly died.

6 (19m 36s):
And so the tour guide described, I tell you this, I feel my stomach tightening. The tour guide described that she had been found hanging from the rafters of the, the slave quarters of this particular room. And he took us to this room and he invited us to go inside

4 (19m 59s):
TAA stands frozen at the threshold of the door while the other tourists brushed by her.

6 (20m 4s):
They just went on in as if this was, you know, just any kind of story. But there was no way I was going inside.

4 (20m 12s):
These were white dudes were white, the other participants were white folks.

6 (20m 15s):
Everybody was but me.

4 (20m 16s):
And they didn't seem to be having the same sense of the gravity of what, of where we were, were in the slave quarters of what occurred. They just went. They didn't have like a sort of reverence for the space or anything like that.

6 (20m 29s):
No one seemed to blink an eye. And the tour guide was so charismatic, he was always kind of joking and he was certainly making light of the story. And he was narrating it as if it were some kind of horror show that people had entered into before. Fun, you know, to, to get a Halloween scare by by choice.

4 (21m 0s):
At this point, the tour guide takes out a phone and plays this audio clip that he says was featured on the TV show, ghost Hunters. They filmed an episode in the Sorell Weed house. What TA heard was a woman's voice screaming, help, oh God, help. And the muffled sounds of her crying.

6 (21m 17s):
Part of me was shocked and appalled at what I was hearing. And that same part of me that was shocked and appalled, felt, oh, just a rush of a sense of protectiveness for Molly, for this young woman who really was a teenager who was just exploited, abused, used, and then blamed and then killed. But another part of me, and this is I think the, the scholar, you know, inside had a series of questions running the whole time.

6 (21m 57s):
Questions about how does this person know what it is that he's telling us? How does he know about Molly? How does he know about the affair? How does he know about the suicide? What does the evidence behind this story?

4 (22m 8s):
So what did you decide to do about all

6 (22m 12s):
Of this? I decided that I had to research Molly's story and the Crell family and this house, and to find out who she was.

4 (22m 23s):
She knew it wouldn't be easy

6 (22m 25s):
If, you know, a a a a double death had happened related to a sexual scandal related to an interracial sexual relationship in the 19th century. The white family would not have been happy to disclose it, right? They would, they would have tried to keep that quiet.

4 (22m 47s):
So she started with the more accessible records and tracked down Francis and Matilda and found evidence suggesting she did kill herself, though not in that house, but to confirm that they owned someone named Molly or anyone in that age range. Ty started out by going to state and local historical collections. She combed through purchase records of people the sores enslaved, dug through national archives and census records of enslaved folks in Georgia, scoured local newspapers from that time found letters from neighbors. She even discovered a memoir by one of the cree's sons. And at the end of the year of exhaustive research,

6 (23m 24s):
There was no Molly

4 (23m 27s):
That's, that's saying that, hold on that hold on. That we gotta just stop there cuz I mean after, I mean, you just described to me this whole drama about Molly and now you're looking in these records and you don't see any record. Like not

6 (23m 43s):
No,

4 (23m 43s):
Like no name of Molly. No, no,

6 (23m 46s):
No. Not a single trace. Not a single crumb. Nothing. Nothing.

4 (23m 51s):
If Ty had told me that Molly's story was exaggerated in certain ways, I don't think I would've been surprised. But no, Molly

6 (23m 59s):
Was actually a fiction that somebody had created. And when I realized that I felt enraged, I felt enraged about the notion that someone had made all of this up.

4 (24m 17s):
Tyra was so appalled that she decided to find out if this was happening anywhere else. Turns out plantations and old mansions all around the south give tours like this. And she went on as many as she could. She discovered a whole industry, built around fabricated stories, historical sites ginned up with fake tales of murder and torture. And she wrote a book exposing this part of the tourism industry called Tales From the Haunted South. Hearing this, I thought back to my tour with the pirate and that story he told about the shooting of eight enslaved people by hum Mercer. There's no evidence that happened. And those fingerprints of the enslaved and the bricks, we walked on bricks like that do exist in Savannah, but probably not in that location.

4 (25m 3s):
But it's not just that so much of this stuff is made up. The closer Ty looked at these ghost tours, the more she saw a disturbing pattern in the kinds of stories the tour guides told. There were stories where enslaved folks betrayed their masters or poisoned their masters or seduced their masters. The gore and sensationalism of stuff like this actually hides the realities of slavery by turning the victimizers their masters into victims. If you look at them as little moral fables, the message of these stories is that everything would be fine if everyone just stayed in their place.

4 (25m 47s):
Ty's book debunking Molly came out in 2015, but when we took the Sorell weed house night tour, Molly's story was still presented as fact and it was the focus of the tour. I wanted to know how they could justify it. Why are they still telling this lie? The manager of the Sorell house agreed to talk. His name is Calvin Parker, and I was surprised to learn that he's black. He's worked at the Sorell house on and off for 10 years and gives tours himself. But they're the historical tours that happen during the daytime and they don't mention Molly these days. He says, Molly only gets mentioned in the nighttime tours after we discuss some basics about the house. I got right to the point when I took the tour.

4 (26m 30s):
The stuff y'all are dealing with was so really some sensitive and intense stuff. But I gotta say, man, it seems like this story about Molly that was a huge part of the tour I took is not true. What, what tour did you take? I mean, I took the night tour as the one I'm talking about. Oh, okay. Well, I do, I deal with more of the history portion of the, of the business. We don't mention that whole story because we don't think it's as factual as most people think it is. Hold on hold, I just, just so I'm clear, you agree that the Molly story that's being, that I heard at the tour is a lie?

4 (27m 13s):
I don't, I don't think, I don't know if it's a a lie or not. I think it's something that's, that's been said so many times. It's just, it's just stuck. At this point, I realized that this conversation was gonna go very differently from what I had expected because I thought Calvin was gonna defend the Molly story, like cite evidence and show me documents. In fact, I'd spend the night before preparing counter evidence like we were going to trial. Calvin told me he's changed the scripts of the daytime tour, so they're factual. But he insisted that even as the manager, he has no control over what happens in the house at night. He says he was promoted to run the daytime tours four years ago, and only the daytime tours, the ghost tour portion of this business has always been ran and managed by out outside parties.

4 (28m 6s):
He says this year, for the first time, they haven't had people from these outside companies running that business. So for now, guides have continued giving the ghost tours with no one really supervising them. Calvin says he's defacto in charge and hoping for a big overhaul. I have to say, I feel for Calvin as a black man, he's in a tough spot as someone stuck navigating a situation created by other people's lives. But I still have this very real feeling that what's going on here is wrong. And I couldn't hold this back if I'm being told that someone was hung in a room in a house. I believe that, that they should have some verification for that.

4 (28m 49s):
And I agree with you, but what I'm asking you, this is how many tour you taken in this city? I, I lost count. You know, maybe you know, five. And how much of those tours you believe is factual? How does that help us understand, Molly? It was, you know, because you have to understand tourism, you have to understand how these tour guys are trained and how they, how they, how they work. There's a lot of tours in this city that will say things that are not a hundred percent. A lot of the tours in the south are folklore. A lot of the tours in the south are hand down, passed down several times. And sometimes those stories stick with people. If those stories stick with people, I can't help what they say.

4 (29m 29s):
I can help what I say. I hear what you're saying, Calvin, about your role, where you're at, how you approach history. But I just wonder if you can understand that it feels like folks have been making money, like hundreds of thousands of dollars off of a lie about a black woman who was, you know, they they're saying is sexually assaulted for entertainment and now there's like no accountability.

4 (30m 11s):
I don't, I don't know what you want me to say to that because There's a lot of stories, there's a lot of tourism. This is what happens in this business, and all I can say is I don't do it and I can try and change it, but bro, we talking about the Sorell House, do you think there should be some accountability at the Sorell house for the lie that they've been telling and making money off to sell it to white people? I don't think that's the, I don't know.

4 (30m 53s):
I mean, I, I'm, that's a good question. Next year, the good thing is I'm gonna be taking control. A lot of that, a lot of that part of the business and a lot of things will definitely change with me at the helm. Are you gonna change that part of the, are you gonna change, are you still gonna tell the Molly story? Oh, no. No, not, not. While I'm there, I can't. Why not? I, I can't find factual things about the story. It's so weird that any of the ghost tours are making this stuff up to shock people because there's no shortage of real horror in Savannah's history.

4 (31m 35s):
And it's hiding in plain sight. Slavery used to be the city's main business and you could still see the infrastructure around you. The boats came in at the dock Negro Marts were enslaved, people were sold, or throughout the city. Don't picture an auction block. These were just stores whose merchandise was human beings and there were brokers and bankers that funded all this. People came to Savannah from all over the south to buy enslaved people. The problem with these tours, it's not just the tourists don't get a sense of the actual lives led by real black people hundreds of years ago. It's also that they don't get any picture of the economic machine that built Savannah, that built this country and made so much of what we live in today.

4 (32m 22s):
They tell us we're haunted, but they don't say what's really haunting us.

0 (32m 41s):
Ia, he teaches podcasting and audio reportage at NYU's Journalism School history was produced by Elna Baker with Valerie Kipnis, Esther Blessing and George Dos Green. George writes about the ghost tours in his new novel, a surprisingly funny thriller called The Kingdoms of Savannah. Coming up, one of the most famous people on the planet tries to get in touch with his mother who is dead. That's in a minute. Chicago Radio, when our program continues, it's this American life Ira Glass. Today's program, the problem with ghosts, the problem being of course, that we expect all kinds of things from ghosts and they usually do not deliver. We have arrived at two of our program Act two Wedding Crasher.

0 (33m 24s):
So this next ghost story takes place at a wedding where an uninvited guest shows up. Owner Baker explains,

12 (33m 32s):
The wedding took place on a cold night in February, just one month ago. It was big celebratory. There was an hour of light food and drinks, and then everyone walked out into the courtyard for the ceremony.

13 (33m 45s):
The door opens these like double doors, and the first people walking out is my dad holding the groom. And they're holding, not even holding hands directly. They like are holding like their, like their elbows intertwined.

12 (34m 3s):
This is Abby. It was her younger sister's wedding, the last of the kids to get married. So it felt like the end of an era. This wedding would be the grand family finale.

13 (34m 13s):
You have the hall family, the immediate family, the extended family, the grandparents. It's like the closest people of my life as a child are all there.

12 (34m 25s):
But Abby doesn't say hi to any of them. She can't. Abby is standing behind a fence a little over 50 feet away on the sidewalk. The uninvited guest, it's her. Abby was disowned by her parents seven years ago. She grew up in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, in the Hasidic community. There. It's a tightly knit world of Orthodox Jews in long dresses and black suits and hats, its own little cultural ecosystem tucked inside New York City. Abby was standing pretty far from the ceremony, but just in case, she wore a face mask, a big coat and a hat so no one would recognize her.

12 (35m 6s):
She thought the distance would make it feel less intense, but standing there made her feel like she was at the wedding. It totally threw her off guard.

13 (35m 15s):
You can hear me music playing. You can hear, hear the person who is like running the ceremony, singing in the microphone and so on. So everything is very familiar, but at the same time, I know very consciously that I can just go down there and be part of it.

12 (35m 38s):
When Abby first questioned and then left the acidic community at 21, it seemed like things would be okay. Her parents stood by her, which was rare at the time, but also made sense. Her family was really close. She'd still come home on weekends. But then a few years later, Abby came out as trans. It was a concept so foreign. She says it took over an hour for her father to grasp what she was telling him. But the second he understood, he stopped making eye contact with her, looking over her shoulder. He said, this means I'm never going to be able to talk to you ever again.

12 (36m 18s):
Abby says she asked if she could at least say goodbye to her mother. He forbade it. Not talking to her mother was unfathomable before they'd spoken almost every day, even though Abby's one of 13 kids, her mom took a special interest in her. And when Abby broke away from Judaism, her mom loved hearing about her life in the outside world. In the weeks and years after Abby was cut off, Abby would call and call trying to reach her mother. One time her mom picked up the phone

13 (36m 51s):
And I called and I said, hi, I just wanna call you and wish you happy New Year and like, whatever. And then she just asked me, are you coming back? Are you coming home? Which didn't mean physically coming home and meant like spiritually and religiously. And I said, I I didn't call to argue. She's like, if you're not coming home, I can't talk to you. And she kept repeating that almost like a tape recorder, like someone told her to say that.

12 (37m 15s):
Abby was later told that her father consulted a rabbi about his decision to cut her off. And that this rabbi told him, your child is dead now when she actually dies. You don't need to sit Shiva. Now standing outside the wedding, Abby was being forced to watch all the people. She'd lost parade in front of her. She studied her father's face. His hair and beard were finally turning white. But she knew that she'd seen pictures of him online.

13 (37m 55s):
It's this moment of recognizing that I recognized my dad from photos, my dad who is alive. I recognize how he looks, not because I know him or that I have seen him, but because I've seen photos of him. It is the moment of seeing a person who in my head has this personality of a dad in my childhood. I I, I can't really grasp it. There's this person who is there but isn't. I am here, but I'm not. I I am seeing him, but I'm not. I'm there, but I'm not there. And like what is happening,

12 (38m 35s):
Even though Abby knew going to the wedding would be painful, she felt compelled to go because she'd always imagined being there for years after they cut her off, she told herself, by the time my youngest sister gets married, we'll have worked through this. I'll be back in the family. Throughout the ceremony, Abby kept waiting for her mom to come out with the bride. She knew about when it would happen. She'd been to many weddings, but still, the moment they actually walked out, it caught Abby by surprise. Suddenly there she was her mom with her sister.

13 (39m 18s):
They start to circle the groom and my mom is walking towards me, so to speak. And it's, that was the moment when I remember crying. So she's standing to the right of my sister, holding my sister with her left hand and like in the right hand, holding this candle. And almost like imagine a statue of liberty moment of like, almost felt like she thinking back in my head. It wanted to be that moment where she is holding the candle to me or something like that.

13 (40m 0s):
And to me that was, that, that was the most, that was the most intense moment. Can I play that video by the way? Because I think the, the sound gives a sense.

12 (40m 14s):
Will you hold it up? They play this song that's been in the family for generations.

13 (40m 30s):
The moment of standing there Looking into my, looking on the outside to my closest family, listening to a song composed by my great great whatever grandfather I am suddenly feeling like I am a fly on the wall at a moment, at a moment where you are supposed to be next to the bride and the groom the most important people at the wedding of their parents and their siblings.

13 (41m 12s):
It's not like I'm not there. I'm there, but I, I don't have a body. We have a belief, a teaching based on a, on a mystic teaching of the 13th century. That all the ancestors, specifically if they were holy, come down to their weddings as soul, as ghosts for the lack of a better term. And they're all there. I am suddenly feeling like I am one of those dead ancestors that is coming, that we believe, that we are told that is coming to the wedding. I am the ghost.

12 (41m 54s):
So she watches through this chain link fence. It's this literal thing, separating them. But even if it weren't there, there'd be no crossing from where she is to where they are.

13 (42m 6s):
My, my life in general, like my parents live seven miles away from me. And it feels like they're so close, but they're so far away and, and my dad frankly, whatever, we're not gonna, yeah. But with my mom, there's so many days I wake up where I just wanna ask her what to do about my headache or what's a good dish that you think I can make for this holiday? Or I'm having friends over and I know she would have some great ideas. And like all of that, all of that comes to the forefront of that moment where I wish I wasn't a ghost. I wish I was seen not just seeing her,

12 (42m 49s):
You know, the way you just said, you know, when I wake up, I imagine talking to her. I imagine asking her what I should cook tonight. Like that's a thing I've, I've felt about people I love who've died.

13 (43m 12s):
I don't want to talk to people. I don't wanna talk over people who have literally lost a parent, but to me it feels worse. I think that's a part where people use ghosts sometimes because it, it explains it, it talks about something more intense than being dead. The fact that they are alive and I can't talk to them. The fact that they're like, it's like that moment of being so close to them that would've no doubt it's been easier if I didn't go, if I wasn't that close to them, it's so much easier.

12 (43m 43s):
Why?

13 (43m 49s):
Because I don't have to face it.

12 (43m 59s):
Abby brought her girlfriend to watch the wedding with her. It was a strange moment for them both a kind of bazaro meet the family. These are the people from all the stories I tell you. This was once my life. What, what was the last moment of the wedding? Like how did you leave it?

13 (44m 25s):
After the ceremonies over the bride and groom hold hands and walk back into the venue. And this is the only time that Jose couples hold hand in public is at the wedding as they walk off from the ceremony. And never again.

12 (44m 42s):
Abby takes one last look at her family and then she walks away with her girlfriend.

13 (44m 48s):
I, I don't know if it was right away or if you, I think no, we waited until we left the city area cuz we didn't wanna hold hands to women in the athletic area. But once we left and, and we did, and I remember thinking that I have something none of my siblings do. I can't hold the hands with the people I love in public, and I love that for

2 (45m 10s):
Me.

12 (45m 15s):
They walk down into the subway together and get on the m train each stop taking them further and further away from Abby's old life and closer to the place she now calls home.

0 (45m 35s):
Elna Baker, Abby Stein has a memoir becoming Eve about leaving the Hasidic community and transitioning Act three, seance fiction. So this last story happens at a moment in history when lots of people were believing in ghosts. Those are the early 1920s, the 1918 flu pandemic had just killed some 50 million people worldwide just for scale. That is way more than the number of people who've died of covid so far and the number of people on earth, which is a fourth then of what it is now. Add to that, the millions of deaths in World War I and well, chances were pretty good that if you lived in America or Europe, you were mourning somebody you loved.

0 (46m 19s):
All that loss led to this peculiar moment that seems kind of unfathomable now, where the idea that ghosts are around us just within reach wasn't some like farfetched or fringy kind of thing. It was mainstream. Sean Cole explains,

14 (46m 35s):
Do you know about spiritualism? It's this religion basically that surged during this period, believers thought that it's possible to talk to the dead. They attended seances. Lots and lots of seances, sit in darkened rooms, often pitch black holding hands. Furniture would move your voices from beyond.

15 (46m 55s):
I can't really be even begin to describe how pervasive this spiritualist rage was.

14 (47m 2s):
This is David Jer, history writer wrote a book that delves deep into this whole world.

15 (47m 7s):
You had all the, you know, these great American scientists who were trying to substantiate proof of psychic phenomenon, proof of an afterlife. The Harvard Psychology Department were all a bunch of ghost chasers at that time. Really. I mean, the head of Harvard psychology was also the head of the American Society for Psychical research. Wow. Charles Roche was a Nobel Prize-winning physicist who coined the, the term ectoplasm

14 (47m 31s):
Ectoplasm like that stuff in the Ghostbusters movies. Roche was actually a physiologist. And while you may not have heard of Charles Roche or any of the scientists who were spiritualists or who ran with spiritualists, there were these two guys you definitely have heard of both incredibly famous back then and even today who got swept up in this movement in a way that came to really define their lives. The first is the world renowned magician and escape artist, Harry Houdini. At the time of our story, he was grieving the loss of his dearly departed mother. And this was no ordinary mother-son relationship. He wrote romantic letters to her, used to rest his head on her bosom when he was anxious and when he was 35 years old.

14 (48m 12s):
This, by the way, was before the whole world was talking about the whole edible complex thing.

15 (48m 17s):
And he would never refer to her as his mother. He would always refer to her as his sainted mother or his beloved mother, El doctoral called Houdini, the last of the great mother lovers. So Houdini identified with all the bereaved who were seeking contact with dead loved ones

14 (48m 36s):
Identified with, but he had a really hard time believing in spiritualism in the same way. And for very, very good reason.

15 (48m 42s):
Houdini, before he became a magician, he actually made a living as a, as a fraud medium.

14 (48m 47s):
Like a fake medium. Yeah.

15 (48m 49s):
Oh, no kidding. So he knew all the tricks. He was in a sense the world's expert on psychic fraud. But yet he was also seeking that one psychic who he could believe was genuinely in touch with the spirit of his mother. And this is one he befriends, sir Arthur Conan Doyle.

14 (49m 6s):
Yes. The guy who wrote all the Sherlock Holmes stories. He's the other famous emek, famous guy in our story, Conan Doyle lost his son, his brother, lots of the men in his family, either in some World War I battle or in the flu pandemic.

15 (49m 20s):
And during the war, he believed he was in contact with the, the spirits of his, his, his lost loved ones through his children's nanny who supposedly had psychic powers. And she would hold these seances and he became a believer,

14 (49m 36s):
And not just a believer, but really the defacto leader of the spiritualism movement. You might be familiar with this part. He traveled all over the place giving presentations and lectures about the virtues of spiritualism, which lent the movement a lot of credibility. He was this guy who had invented this character who was the pinnacle of rationality and deductive reasoning. Of course, you were going to give him the time of day. And Conan Doyle acknowledged, yeah, there are a lot of fake mediums out there, but there were legitimate ones too. Houdini's mom had already been dead for the better part of a decade. When he met Conan Doyle, he presented himself to Conan Doyle as a seeker after the truth.

14 (50m 17s):
And Conan Doyle thought he could help him talk to his dead mother. They came to really like each other. In 1920, Houdini traveled to the UK to do some shows, and Conan Doyle sent him around to all these mediums that he trusted. But with every one of them, Houdini could see the puppet strings because again, he had pulled the same stunts himself once upon a time.

15 (50m 37s):
And he claimed to have attended a hundred seances in, in England,

14 (50m 40s):
Right? Like one a day or

15 (50m 42s):
Something like that. Yeah. You know, Houdini had a tendency to exaggerate. I, I doubt, I doubt very much if he attended a hundred sciences, but he did see a number of these mediums that Conan Doyle recommended, and he struck out and he told Conan Doyle that, and Conan Doyle thought it was because Houdini's mental state was so turbulent that he basically blocked any, any kind of possibility of psycho communication when he participated in these seances. And he told Houdini, you know, you can't pursue a spirit the way a terrier pursues a rat. Right? You know, you, you've got to come in quiet and receptive. And so he thought Houdini was to blame for this,

14 (51m 22s):
Which of course is a conversation you hear in a lot of spiritual houses. If you can't get in touch with the spirit, whether divine or just your cousin, it's because you don't believe well enough. Fast forward a couple of years, 1922, Conan Doyle comes to the states to give some spiritualism lectures, brings his wife along, and they hang out with his new best bud, Houdini and Houdini's wife. And toward the end of the Conan Doyle's time here, the four of the Motta resort in Atlantic City, just hanging out at the beach or whatever. And the Conan Doyles surprised their magician friend with a suggestion.

15 (51m 60s):
Conan Doyle's wife, Jean Doyle is also a psychic medium. And of course she has an inspiration this weekend that Houdini's mother is going to come through and present a manifestation of her presence.

14 (52m 14s):
She just comes up with that on her own, like

15 (52m 16s):
Apparently, huh? She's, you know, hit with this psychic bolt. Okay. And so Conan Doyle invites Houdini for a seance. And unbeknownst to the Doyles this weekend was Houdini's mother's birthday.

14 (52m 31s):
Sort of an eerie coincidence already. And Houdini, he's agreeable, actually eager, he wrote about this saying I was willing to believe even wanted to believe. They go up to the Conan Doyles hotel room. Sir Arthur closes the curtains and puts a writing tablet and pencils on the table. This was to be Lady Doyle's mode of mediation, automatic writing.

15 (52m 56s):
So the idea she's in a trance and she's spontaneously possessed by the spirit that takes hold of her hand, and she's just riding unconsciously.

14 (53m 3s):
Oh, it's like a Ouija board where the spirit takes your hand and moves it.

15 (53m 6s):
Yeah, that's, that's a good way of looking at it. It's, you know, a very intimate scene. Conan Doyle says a prayer. They're holding hands. It's just complete silence.

14 (53m 15s):
Then Lady Conan Doyle starts writhing around making all these jerky movements. She pounds on the table, which is the sign that the spirit is present. Lady Conan Doyle asks the spirit, do you believe in God? And then pounds the table three times, which means yes.

15 (53m 31s):
So she puts a cross at the top of, of one of the, the paths. She asks, are you the spirit of Houdini's mother again? She pounds the table three times, and then Houdini kind of lets out this gasp and says, mama, are you here?

14 (53m 51s):
Just thinking about Houdini, saying like, mama, are you here? It's really moving.

15 (53m 55s):
It's really moving. And I think, I don't know, I, I can't picture him saying that in any other seance. I think that's expressly something that he was vulnerable enough to say at that moment.

14 (54m 6s):
Lady Conan Doyle starts writing furiously every time she gets to the end of the page. Sir Arthur tears it off the tablet and hands it to Houdini. Luckily, Houdini held onto the pages after all of this so we know what's on them. I asked David to read some of what Houdini's dead mother had to say.

15 (54m 23s):
Oh, my Darlene, thank God, thank God at last time through I've tried, oh, so often now I am happy. Why? Of course, I want to talk to my boy, my own beloved boy. Friends, thank you with all my heart for this. You have answered the call.

14 (54m 37s):
How is Houdini seeming through all of this? Is he like emotional during it? Does he?

15 (54m 42s):
According to Conan Doyle, he was completely silent. He seemed on the verge of tears. He looked like somebody who had finally found what they were looking for to having just beheld a miracle. This life of mine, it is so different over here. And we see our beloved ones on earth. That is such a joy and comfort to us. Tell him I love him more than ever. The years only increase it and feels by soul and glad

14 (55m 16s):
That's Conan Doyle's version of the story. Houdini is left pale and trembling a new believer. Houdini's feelings about it become evident. About four months later, he writes an article for the New York son saying he's never seen any evidence that anyone can communicate with the dead quote, I dunno, of any medium who has not at some time been detected in some fraud. Conan Doyle sees the article and writes a letter to his friend Houdini, saying, I'm paraphrasing here, dude. What the hell? I watched you tear up in front of me. Also, my wife is not a fraud. Houdini writes him back like, dude, that was not my mom.

15 (55m 56s):
The fact that his mother could only read, write, and speak in German, Houdini can't understand how the message from his mother, you know, could sound like some Victorian platitude. It's, it's not her voice.

14 (56m 11s):
Right? Victorian platitude in English.

15 (56m 13s):
In English. And there's also, it sounds like a spiritualist sermon. God bless you too, sir Arthur, for what you're doing for us, for us over here who so need to, to get in touch with our beloved ones on the earth plane. If only the world knew this great truth, how different life would be for men and women? Go on, let nothing stop you. Great will be, there's no biographical reference to anything between Houdini and his mother,

14 (56m 39s):
Including no reference to the fact that it was her birthday. I think she would've mentioned that plus that cross, that lady Conan Doyle put at the top of the page when she started channeling Houdini's like, we're Jewish. Now, Conan Doyle has responses to all this stuff. First off, there's no language in the afterlife. He says maybe a trans medium would come through uttering the exact words of your loved ones in their native tongue. But automatic writers are more translating their thoughts and feelings. They're not taking dictation. And as far as the cross goes,

15 (57m 15s):
Conan Doyle says his wife does that before she presents any kind of spirit riding because it's to protect from lower influences from,

14 (57m 23s):
I always put a cross on top of the page.

15 (57m 25s):
She says, well, of course, I mean, you don't want dark spirits infiltrating your seance and you know, taking hold of the medium and who do you? That'd be terrible. No, the cross prevents that. And Conan Doyle maintains, look, you told me you were walking on air. You told me you were deeply moved. I, I I can't reconcile what you're saying now with what I saw with my own eyes at the time, how you responded and, and the things that you told me since, which indicated that you were convinced.

14 (57m 52s):
So he's so kudos pissed at his friend. Ku

15 (57m 55s):
Is very hurt.

14 (58m 4s):
The Atlantic City seance was the last straw for Houdini from then on. He wasn't just a skeptic of spiritualism, he was an all out crusader against spiritualism. He would sneak into darkened seances and disguise, shine a flashlight on huckster mediums as they pushed furniture around that was supposed to be moving on its own. He devoted a big chunk of his touring show to just bashing spiritualists, demonstrating exactly how shysters pretended to channel your dead relatives. He even testified before Congress in favor of a bill that would outlaw fortune. Telling for hire didn't go anywhere, but the hearing devolved into total mayhem, mediums, and other spiritualists flooded the capitol, Geering Houdini. As he gave his testimony, security was called in to keep them from laying into each other.

14 (58m 48s):
He screamed at them. Tell me the name. My mother called me when I was born the way Houdini saw it. These so-called psychics, they were just fleecing money from the bereaved people who were so grease stricken. Of course, they were ready to believe anything. It wounded him because he knew how they felt.

0 (59m 17s):
Jean Cole is one of the producers of our show. David Jerry spoke about Houdini's war against people who claim to speak with the dead. It's called the Witch of Lime Street.

2 (59m 28s):
There's a ghost in my, I love used to be Only Shadows for the past. I can't face.

0 (1h 0m 1s):
Produced today by Elna Baker. People will put together today Show include fia, Bennon, Zoe Chase of to Cornfield, tur, low El Mustafa, stone, Nelson, captain Rayo, NAIA, Raymond Charlotte Sleeper, Ikes, Reese, KJA, Chesky, Francis Swanson, Christopher. So Matt Tierney, Nancy Updyke, Julie Whitaker, and Diane Wu, our managing editor, Saara Abdin, our senior editors, David Kastenbaum. Our executive editor is Emmanuel Barry. Special thanks today to Dr. Jamal Torre, Clyde Washington, Brad Dilling, Jessica Osborne, Joe sns, David Eagleman, the folks at 1790 in Savannah, and all the tour guides in Savannah who helped us understand the go scene there. Our website, this american life.org, where you can listen to our archive of over 700 episodes for absolutely free.

0 (1h 0m 41s):
This American Life is delivered to public radio stations by prx, the Public Radio Exchange, which is celebrating its 20th anniversary. Thanks. As Stewart Program's co-founder Mr. Tori Maier. You know, last weekend I took him to his first rave. He was so excited to finally try MDM a and then we got there and he was so disappointed. There

2 (1h 1m 4s):
Was no Molly

0 (1h 1m 5s):
America Glass back next week. There's more stories of this American life next week on the podcast of this American Live. Imagine finding a new hobby and realizing

17 (1h 1m 32s):
To do this hobby right? According to the ways of the masters, there's a pretty good chance that you're going to have to bend the law to get the materials that you need. If not, break it. Yeah, to break international laws,

0 (1h 1m 45s):
The hobby, making wars for fly fishermen and what may be the greatest feather heist ever. That's next week on the podcast, your local public radio station.