0 (1s):
To Valerie? Yes. You're a producer here on our show.

1 (4s):
I am.

0 (7s):
Your, your tone of voice betrays a lack of enthusiasm for the story you're about to tell me.

1 (12s):
Yes. I do not find this funny. I find this deeply uncomfortable.

0 (18s):
Barry Ness is one of our younger and newer producers here. She's been working on the show for less than a year, and it was other staff members who urged her to come into the studio with me and tell me the story cuz they think it's funny. Even if Valerie doesn't.

1 (31s):
Okay. It takes place on a subway.

0 (33s):
Okay.

1 (34s):
Okay. So I get on the subway and I see this person I know on the same subway train.

0 (40s):
Well, that's a coincidence. That doesn't happen very

1 (42s):
Often. No, I've never seen this person on the stop before. No. And I'm like, I, I should say something to this person. And I'm like thinking in my head, I'm like, all I should say something, I should say something. And then he looks at me and he makes like direct eye contact and I'm like, right th this is my chance. I'm gonna say something right now. And I like open my mouth and I'm like, and then he starts looking at his phone. I'm like, okay. He, that actually wasn't direct eye contact. That was like staring through you eye contact.

0 (1m 8s):
How far are you from him?

1 (1m 10s):
Six feet.

0 (1m 13s):
Six feet So close, right? But so far she's by the subway doors. He's at the pole in the middle of the aisle.

1 (1m 21s):
So then, anyways, in my head I'm like, okay, he'll probably get off on the next stop. It's not a big deal. He hasn't seen me. I'll just like pretend I don't see him. But then a few stops later, he has not gotten off and he comes to stand right next to me, like shoulder to shoulder. And I'm like, oh my God. Like I, I, he's definitely noticed me. He's gonna say something, I should say something back. And I'm like looking and he's just like frantically scrolling on his phone, reading something really important, listening to something I don't know. And I'm like, okay, okay. I won't say anything again

0 (1m 52s):
Because you don't wanna interrupt him.

1 (1m 54s):
Yeah, because I'm like, if you wanted to talk to me, he would say something.

0 (1m 58s):
She keeps thinking he'll get off any minute. After all, he went to stand by the door, right by her, but he doesn't get off. Not at the next station or the next or the next. And at some point she realizes

1 (2m 10s):
There's gonna be a long ride. Like this isn't one or two stops. This is like a 35 minute subway ride where this person that I know very well is sitting next to me and I'm not saying anything. And our shoulders are like next to one another's and the subway's like doting. And I feel his shoulder on my shoulder and I'm like, he's gonna notice, but it's too late to say anything at this point.

0 (2m 31s):
Wait, wait, lemme just pause on that because now the fact that you haven't said something makes it more awkward if suddenly you go like, oh it's you.

1 (2m 38s):
Exactly. But then it's in my head, I'm like, it's even more awkward if he turns to me and his like, has she been here the whole time and hasn't said anything? So in my head I think this is a good idea and like I take out a magazine and I flip it open like as if I'm reading it, but I go like this.

0 (2m 60s):
So you're holding the magazine up to your face.

1 (3m 2s):
Ah-huh. So he won't see me.

0 (3m 5s):
Just so it's clear what we're describing here, Valerie is holding the magazine to her face. So the top of the magazine is near her hairline. So she's like a, a nearly blind monk trying to squint at words in a Bible or like an extra in an old musical where, I dunno, sky Masterson or Annie Mame or whoever's gonna walk into a subway car and everybody in the car has a magazine held up to his or her face so that they can pull them down on cue and start singing magazine is too close to her eyes to actually read

1 (3m 32s):
It. Like no normal human reads magazines in this way. And the whole time I'm thinking he's gonna notice that I didn't say anything and I Why didn't I say? And I keep thinking, should I have just said something? I don't know.

0 (3m 47s):
Do you think it's possible that he's having the same experience you're having?

1 (3m 50s):
Absolutely not.

0 (3m 51s):
Why?

1 (3m 52s):
I just know it.

0 (3m 53s):
How,

1 (3m 55s):
Because this is, I don't think people feel, I don't know. I don't think people feel this way. Do people feel this way?

0 (4m 3s):
You're a person and you feel this way.

1 (4m 5s):
But no, I don't think he notices me. Or if he does that, this makes us so much worse.

0 (4m 10s):
Is this somebody who you're scared of?

1 (4m 16s):
No.

0 (4m 17s):
It sounds like you're scared of them.

1 (4m 19s):
No, I'm not scared of them. But scared in a normal scared kind of way.

0 (4m 24s):
What do you mean by that?

1 (4m 28s):
Well, well this guy's my boss.

0 (4m 32s):
Was it me? Yes. Are you serious?

1 (4m 34s):
Yes, a hundred percent.

0 (4m 38s):
I I absolutely did not see you. See,

1 (4m 40s):
I knew it, but I, like, I was sweating underneath my winter jacket. It was like one of the worst 40 minutes of my life.

0 (4m 48s):
Yeah, I didn't see you. If I had seen you, I would've said hello,

1 (4m 52s):
But Okay. Can I tell you another detail that's important? Yeah. You, this is so weird. You weren't wearing a suit and in my head I had never seen you without a suit. So I thought maybe he doesn't wanna be perceived. Like, I was just like, maybe this is IRA's private time.

0 (5m 14s):
So it was like seeing a teacher outside of your, the classroom when you're in elementary school, it just seemed wrong that you were seeing me there without my uniform on. Yes,

1 (5m 21s):
You were wearing sneakers. I'd never seen you wear sneakers. And I was like, I, I can't, I can't say anything now.

0 (5m 34s):
What was I doing

1 (5m 35s):
Frantically scrolling on your phone. When

0 (5m 38s):
You say frantically scrolling through my phone. I was frantic for like a 30 minute subway ride.

1 (5m 43s):
I think you were actually like reading something. It was like not frantic in any way, but in my head I was like, he's frantically trying to avoid me. So he's scrolling.

0 (5m 53s):
Did you think I would get mad at you?

1 (5m 56s):
No, but I thought you'd be like annoyed. You'd be like, Hey, I didn't say anything for a reason. Val,

0 (6m 4s):
Can I ask you a personal question? Yeah. Were you raised by people who didn't provide you a lot of reassurance that they liked you?

1 (6m 19s):
Yeah. I am like a Soviet immigrant, duh.

0 (6m 28s):
It's kind of hard to get my head around it that she and I stood next to each other on a train for half an hour and our shoulders were knocking against each other and I didn't notice her and she said nothing and had a magazine to her face, like a force field protecting herself and keeping us separate.

1 (6m 46s):
Wait, IRA, can I ask this last question? Why didn't you see me?

0 (6m 51s):
Oh, I can totally tell you why I didn't see you. Okay. I just really can shut out the world really, really well and just decide to focus on something. And then in like a work context, it's really handy. Like I can kind of write anywhere but in personal situations all the time, I don't know, I can be in the same room as somebody and be thinking about something or focus on something. I totally shut them out. Like they'll say something to me and I don't even hear it, which is bad. And the people in my life don't love this. And this thing on the train is an example of it.

1 (7m 26s):
Yeah. Yeah. It's funny. I feel the like exact opposite in a bad way.

0 (7m 31s):
You're, you're just always aware of others around you.

1 (7m 34s):
Hyperaware to the point where I make up things maybe or I misperceived.

0 (7m 40s):
Yeah, that seems hard.

1 (7m 43s):
Yeah.

0 (7m 52s):
What today on our show we have other stories of people who are so close, but so far Qua is about two people and one of the closest relationships possible. They're engaged to be married, but they have this distance between them that they cannot make sense of Act two comedian Tig Notaro as a story of somebody as close as her actual bedside and also in another way and possibly far away. I'm W B C Chicago, this American life. I'm our glass. Stay with us Tawan love and other exports.

0 (8m 32s):
How much can you trust whether somebody who you think is close to you really is close to you? <unk> Thomas Jr. Has been thinking about that question since visiting with some of his childhood friends. So he was born in Sierra Leone, but moved to the states when he was little. His story starts in Freetown during a recent trip. Home. Heads up the story acknowledges the existence of sex.

3 (8m 53s):
When I left Sierra Leone at eight years old, I left behind a small group of friends. I did everything with. As kids. We would run around the city and play soccer at the beach. That's how we bonded. Now that we're grown, when I go back, we go to the gym. It's how we pick up what we left off. My friends have this one particular gym they like. It's called Sonics

4 (9m 16s):
1, 2, 3 and four. Five more. Six small seven

3 (9m 27s):
Sonics sits at the end of a dirt road in Freetown. A small space in quaint green and yellow building. It has no air conditioning and relentless heat. So the guys are usually drenched in sweat like oiled up extras and nineties r and b videos. I come here almost every time I'm in salon. But then the last time we went, I discovered that for many of the guys here, all their crunches and squats had a much deeper purpose than looking good. The gym, my friends told me possesses a special luck for young, serial, young and men who wanna move to America or Europe. They believe that if you used the weights here to sculpt your body, make it beautiful enough, you'll find a wife overseas and that Sonics has a track record to prove it.

3 (10m 11s):
A member named Savage told me about how foolproof this method has been for previous members. He's speaking in Creole. I'll paraphrase After

5 (10m 20s):
We not ever get a situation where we get member, we meet with jc, then the no may come up together.

3 (10m 27s):
We've never had a Sonics member who dates someone visiting from overseas who doesn't end up marrying them.

5 (10m 33s):
Then they may come up in the travel. You

3 (10m 35s):
Have a high success rate.

5 (10m 36s):
Oh yes. Oh yes, we have <unk>

3 (10m 43s):
Another member of Sonics, this guy with perfectly sculpted arms called Saltan, jumped in to name their legends. The guys they've heard found wives overseas success stories to get passed around at the gym,

6 (10m 56s):
Be

3 (11m 1s):
There was a driver who chauffeured a black American woman around Freetown while she was visiting, always making sure to look presentable doing it. He made a good impression. They got married and he just went to America a few months ago.

6 (11m 15s):
Scientists Alpha,

3 (11m 17s):
There was the handsome photographer who got a random phone call from a serial union woman living in London. It was a wrong number, but he charmed his way into a conversation, sent her some photos of his biceps, and they got married last year. He's now living with her in London.

4 (11m 35s):
Next sets, next six, next.

3 (11m 39s):
I respected the hustle, but their playing somehow didn't sit right with me. The idea of guys, I grew up with men in my country using their bodies to get overseas. It made me uncomfortable. But then I sat down with a few of of the guys and we started to talk. And I realized beneath the surface, beyond all the muscles, confidence in bravado, all of these men were carrying around a broken heart. Which brings me to the guy I wanted to talk to the most. My friend Mark mcm, Mario Mac, Mario, mark and I grew up in the same neighborhood, but we didn't really get to know each other until we were grown.

3 (12m 28s):
He's a good looking guy who's easy to talk to. Not the greatest singer, but we were hanging out one day and he decided to sing me his favorite love song.

7 (12m 37s):
Feel so different being here. I was telling you, so be Next. Life for me is not the same. There is no one to talk to

3 (12m 47s):
Mario's, how do I breathe? One of my favorite songs is a song about a guy trying to piece together his emotional life after losing the woman he loves. It's basically Mark's story. It's why he's the one of my friends who believes most fervently that finding love overseas is the way to go. The girl he's singing about is someone he grew up with. Mark says she was the smartest kid in their fifth grade class, but she was always approachable and he liked that. He liked that they could joke together after lessons. They would go to the beach and talk for hours, getting to know each other. He says she was the first person who taught him how to love like this.

3 (13m 27s):
One day he walked home from prayers and as soon as he opened the door, he saw her standing there with all his best friends from school, his family, everyone singing

7 (13m 38s):
Happy, bad too. I was like, really surprised me. Come hug me. It's like, ah, really, really happy. I really, really, I was just, I just start for,

3 (13m 48s):
She planned this elaborate surprise party for his 14th birthday, complete with all his favorite food and all the people he loved. And on top of all that, she gave him a kiss. Was it on your cheek or your mouth or your lips?

7 (14m 1s):
On my lips in front of everybody. Instead of in front of my mom. In front of me. In front of me. Ga granny. They kiss me so special to me that all the kisses, they don't ever kiss me.

3 (14m 15s):
So that was the most special kiss that you've ever had. That was like the best this the best kiss you've ever had

7 (14m 22s):
Ever.

3 (14m 28s):
Neither of them came from money, far from it. But Mark was growing up with a single parent when his mother couldn't afford to care for him, he lived with his grandpa, but then his grandpa died, then his mother died and Mark became an orphan. He says his relationship with this woman was one of the few things in his life that felt stable with her. He could dream. He could escape into one of their long talks about how sweet their lives would be in the future. I reached out to her to get her side with this, but she didn't want to be involved with my story and she wouldn't confirm anything. Mark said The way Mark tells it though, they had decided she would work in the energy industry.

3 (15m 8s):
She would become a lawyer. They wanted three to four kids a house in sa. Maybe they travel sometimes. I love the way he describes the love he had for her.

7 (15m 19s):
Real to me, no,

3 (15m 21s):
She was so real to me.

7 (15m 23s):
If I get <unk> no one knew our look. Like I love good for

3 (15m 28s):
Me. She didn't care if I had money or didn't have money. She didn't care how I looked. It's love she had for me

7 (15m 35s):
School love for

3 (15m 37s):
<unk>. And you thought to yourself like, this is, this is gonna be my wife.

7 (15m 41s):
Yeah, it is gonna be my wife in the future. Since then, yeah. Yeah.

3 (15m 44s):
After they graduated high school, she got a scholarship to attend university abroad. Mark says she tried to put in a good word for him to get the same scholarship, but it didn't work out still. He encouraged her to go and for three years they continued their relationship via WhatsApp and Facebook. She told him she was one of the top students in her class back home. Mark was struggling. He had no money, no parents, no connections in a country with no reliable jobs for young people. His dreams of becoming a lawyer were fading. But what if his girlfriend's success was starting to get around? The wider serial union community guys were sliding into her dms on socials.

3 (16m 27s):
And whenever that happened, she would tell Mark and then blocked them immediately until someone new approached her.

7 (16m 34s):
One time when I was sitting down, she told me that I have this guy.

3 (16m 42s):
The guy was a serial onion doctor. He had seen one picture of Mark's girlfriend and decided that she would be his wife. Mark says she tried to ignore him, but the man contacted her family and formally asked for her hand. She told Mark, they were pressuring her to accept, telling her that a marriage with this man could not only change her future, but her entire families too. He watched as the nine years of their relationship unraveled over a short series of tearful WhatsApp calls. Nothing. Mark could say nothing he could do, nothing he could offer her or her family was enough to convince them to choose him over a doctor.

3 (17m 24s):
A few months later, he says she received the ring via D h L and was married to this stranger

7 (17m 31s):
Doctor. Where you are from who? Who doesn't know. After all the plans, after all the promises, disappointment,

3 (17m 54s):
Love became

7 (17m 55s):
Disappointment. Yes, it changes everything. Because if you meet somebody on a doctor hurt me the most family life.

3 (18m 5s):
The visionary feminist writer at Bell Hooks says, love is made up of seven parts. Wherever someone is practicing care, affection, recognition, respect, commitment, trust, and open, honest communication. There is love, even in an economically poor environment like Salon. But talking to Mark, I found myself thinking more about what love needs to survive. What conditions can make the act of loving easier or more difficult to sustain? Mark felt like he couldn't compete because of money and he was right. Not everyone has equal access to love.

7 (18m 45s):
I feel like crying. But for you,

8 (18m 50s):
You feel like cry. But you're ashamed to cry in front of me, cry.

7 (18m 55s):
I miss this woman with her.

3 (19m 4s):
In the years since I left Salon, I had fantasies about the lives of people back home. Our country had been ravaged by years of war. That left a lot of heartache, suffering and poverty in its wake. But I believe that through all of that, people had each other. That they had this unbreakable bond that was vital to our survival. But Mark was telling me that was wrong.

7 (19m 27s):
I don't think <unk> is not here. If it is like 10% or 5%.

3 (19m 34s):
If it is only 10% or 5% have true love. It wasn't just Mark. Almost every guy I talked to in Freetown told me the same thing. It felt like there was this lovelessness among the men in Salon. Every time I raised a question and I talked to around 18 or 19 people, they'd launch into their own stories of heartbreak. I heard it from the taxi drivers, coconut salesman, hotel, bellhops, random guys on the street. Women too. The guys at Sonic's Gym said they'd all gone through it and independently landed on the same math. I asked them, what percent of people without money and salon find true love with 90% of, of, of, of, of, of too love without money in na?

7 (20m 22s):
Yeah,

3 (20m 22s):
Sure. When I ask my friends in America the same question about finding love without money, they say 60 to 80%. If love was like everything else, these guys couldn't afford in SA alone. If it really was a luxury, it made sense to me that they thought the best course of action was to look forward abroad. It was a way to solve two problems at once. They could move to a country where poverty was less rampant and true love was more accessible. But I wondered about it. Where would it lead them? For Mark, it led him to the place most of us turned to for finding love these days.

3 (21m 3s):
The internet. Let me see. The first message you sent this person, this, this one is really

7 (21m 13s):
Long, really long.

3 (21m 15s):
Mark got on Facebook and he started sliding into as many dms as possible. He didn't care about age or race or religion. Just anyone who was over 18 and overseas who might be interested in a relationship. Okay, so, so just, just tell me what you're saying in these messages. Just read 'em. Hello,

7 (21m 33s):
Hello, Patricia. Patricia Lava. How are you doing there? And he said, okay. I say, okay dear. It's good to hear. And then I said, I am Mark. Nice meeting you dear. Then she's replies, same here.

3 (21m 49s):
So you're writing a lot, you're writing a lot. You're writing a lot. She's only responding with like one word, two word answers In his search for a new relationship, mark messaged over 150 random people on Facebook.

7 (22m 5s):
Wilson, she's in America. Salma America.

3 (22m 9s):
Some message back. There was a single mom in Brazil who liked his muscles. The Sierra Leon onion student in Sydney who talked to him because he reminded her of home, the nurse in London who thought he was good banter whenever he came across married women, he would keep it pushing. But he was hoping to connect with almost anyone overseas.

7 (22m 34s):
It makes me feel good like talking to someone that, that is far away from me. Like, like someone that is in America. It will, it make me feel good, make me feel like I will just close my eyes. I feel like I'm in, I feel like I'm in America. Amika

3 (22m 49s):
Listening to Mark, it was like I was watching an episode of 90 day fiance, but seeing the side of the story, I'd always wanted to see the version where the hopes and dreams of the foreign spouse were finally center stage. My friend Mark was eagerly searching for a love that could transform his life. He made a few connections, but most women weren't interested in a long-distance relationship with a guy all the way in West Africa. So Mark struck out again and again.

7 (23m 16s):
At one significant day, I found <unk>

3 (23m 21s):
He found Lottie Lottie, Rebecca Beasley.

7 (23m 26s):
She's my, she's my girlfriend. Cause when we don't get married to each other yet cause of the distance, she's in America. I'm in Africa.

3 (23m 38s):
Lottie. Rebecca Beasley was a black woman. Mark met through Facebook and he just loved how regal her name sounded. Lottie, Rebecca Beasley. You gotta say all three. She had kind eyes, a warmest smile. And she lived in this state that Mark had never heard of.

7 (23m 55s):
Fairbank, Alaska in the morning. There here is midnight, one, two, 3:00 AM in the, in the morning. I usually usually wake up just to talk to light team until five o o'clock or 6:00 AM It's it's, it is already morning hours.

3 (24m 14s):
But the nine hour time difference wasn't the only obstacle. There was another distance too.

7 (24m 19s):
She was born on 1949. She just turned 72 years of age this past September.

3 (24m 29s):
And did you know that before you clicked on her profile?

7 (24m 32s):
No.

3 (24m 33s):
A 70 year old woman wasn't what Mark expected. Most of the guys at the gym who'd been successful had ended up with wives closer to their own age. But while Mark had been casting a wide net in search of a relationship that could change his life, he was also open to meeting a new friend. So he didn't overthink the age thing with Lottie and she was calm about it too. In her very first message, she roasted him about how young he was.

7 (24m 59s):
He, Hey, who are you little boy? Who are you little boy? What do you want? I said, I said, I'm not a little boy, I'm a man.

3 (25m 11s):
How old were you when you met her?

7 (25m 13s):
21, 22? Yeah, 21 or 22.

3 (25m 18s):
Mark was young, but he's a good listener. Before Long Lottie was telling him all about her life. She'd gone through a lot of heartbreak too. She'd been married three times, had five children, and after one of her husbands had become abusive, she needed to get away. That's how she ended up in Alaska. She'd made the best of it, started her own business, caring for the elderly, and was moving on with her life. She wanted to know about Mark too.

7 (25m 44s):
What about my life? How I lost my father. I lost my, my my, my mother. She said, oh yeah, an han. I said, yes. And like she was having this sympathy for me. She was like, she was feeling sorry for me.

3 (26m 1s):
For Mark, this thing that began as a friendship was starting to grow. He saw a potential for romantic relationship. Belotti struggled to see it, even though he felt like she wanted to. The age difference was too much. Mark says, most people feel that way. So when you tell, whenever you tell people about Lottie, about your relationship with this,

7 (26m 22s):
Don't believe this is, this is calm. This is calm. <unk> People get their own thoughts to get their own thinking and life. People must talk anything you do in this life. So if you live to, if you stop by to listen to everyone, every word that's towards you to <unk>, you won't even achieve your goal. Sometimes I'll give them their ears.

3 (26m 46s):
I gotta say, when Mark first told me about Lottie, I had questions too. Like I wondered, was my friend now a bonafide romance scammer or something? Because it is true that the way that he was looking for love gave him the silhouette of a romance. Scammer, scammers ask people questions about their personal life, send sweet messages. They try to earn trust before stealing your money and disappearing. But what Mark was telling me about his relationship made me believe that this wasn't, that Mark never asked for money. And he was putting in a lot of time with Lottie

7 (27m 20s):
When she's in the hospital day and night, just to check on her. <unk> I'm here well far in distance, but you are close to my heart. I say, I'm here praying for you. They are nights accepts me because of, and do I talk to her the way I care about her? Do I call her? I woke up from, I woke up from sleep. I would check on her, how you doing? How's your help now?

3 (27m 51s):
Months passed, and Mark and Lottie kept talking, developing a love ethic where they both showed up for each other.

7 (27m 58s):
At one point she asked me, said, did you, did you eat breakfast this morning?

3 (28m 1s):
Did you eat breakfast this morning? I

7 (28m 3s):
Said, what does work first?

3 (28m 5s):
And I said, what is breakfast? I said,

7 (28m 7s):
I said, what do you mean breakfast? I said, okay. I said, no. I said no. I said, please. I said, just gotta understand here in Africa, I have breakfast. It's all the politicians for the politicians First lady. I said, sometimes when I wake up in the morning, I don't, I don't eat. I don't even taste food till 12:00 PM or three o'clock. Sometimes even in even hours.

3 (28m 29s):
Lottie asked about where Mark stayed and he told her, he shared one room with three other people. And most nights he would have to stand outside the house to talk to her so he wouldn't disturb his roommates. This is common. Most people in salon live on roughly $2 a day. Market was making a little money playing soccer in some local leagues, but it wasn't enough to get, by hearing about how Mark was struggling, made Lottie upset. So she decided to start sending him money, $200 covered rent for the entire year at a place all his own. She also paid for his grandma's funeral. It wasn't a huge amount, just what she could spare here and there, but it made her feel happy to help him.

7 (29m 10s):
So when, when, when she usually used to call me Mac, I said, yeah, yes, sweetheart. I said, did this work? First? I say, yeah, this now is the time to have work. First she was like laughing. Let's see, whenever to when I close my just think like she's in front of me.

3 (29m 37s):
What do you think you were providing her? What do you think you were giving her? How are you like contributing to the relationship? Because she's contributing money and she's contributing, like financially. So what do you think you were contributing to the relationship?

7 (29m 54s):
Love. Love and <unk>.

3 (30m 2s):
<unk> I could see that a lot of relationships involve some kind of transaction. Each person brings what they can offer to the mix. With Lottie, it's money, at least partly, and with Mark, it's his time in care. But when I think about the contours of their relationship, the fact that they've never met in person and lived thousands of miles apart, not to mention the difference in age and experience. It makes me a little uneasy. So did you guys talk about sex? Like do you talk about sex ever? We'll

7 (30m 33s):
Talk about, we'll talk about everything. We'll talk about sex, talk about everything. So,

3 (30m 37s):
So how did that, how does that, if you don't mind me asking, so how, how do you

7 (30m 41s):
We make sex on the phone.

3 (30m 43s):
Oh, y'all had, you guys had phone

7 (30m 45s):
Sex. Phone sex. Like we talk and lying down, climb onto my chest. Okay. Are you there? Can I, can I put something there? Okay.

3 (30m 54s):
Let me ask you this question actually. Do, do, are you attracted to her?

7 (30m 59s):
Yeah.

3 (30m 59s):
Yeah,

7 (31m 0s):
Sure. What

3 (31m 1s):
About, what about her? Are you attracted to? Like what, what turns you on about her?

7 (31m 6s):
Even, even, she's 73 years. Oh, she still have back. Her back is set just like minaj. Okay.

3 (31m 18s):
Okay. So, so you think when you and her meet in person, you have no issue having sex with her?

7 (31m 23s):
I have no issue. What

3 (31m 25s):
If I'm being real? My worry for Mark isn't just about whether or not he's attracted to Lottie. This is a darker place my mind wanders off to. It's hard not to see their relationship and the context of the exploitation that's happening in West Africa. Right now. Sexual tourism has been a growing problem in The Gambia, for example, older women have been descending on the country and spending their money on sex with young African men. The phenomenon is so rampant that the Gambian government stepped in demanding foreign visitors stop this practice. But it still continues. I don't think that's what's happening with Mark and Lottie. But there are enough similarities here to make me question and if half of me worried that my friend was being taken advantage of the other half worried fe lotti, because Mark talked so openly about what he hopes to get out of their relationship.

3 (32m 18s):
What did you like about her? Like what, what did you feel

7 (32m 22s):
<unk> That <unk> want to accomplish my dream. Like I want to go to United States or

3 (32m 29s):
That's not, that's not feelings you have for her. That's feelings you have for your dream. Those are two different things.

7 (32m 35s):
Yeah. If, if, if she's going, if, if she's the one who is going to take me from here, then,

3 (32m 44s):
Then, then, then the feelings for your dreams become your feelings for her.

7 (32m 48s):
I, I've already said, Les, you take me out of here. Trust me. No matter the age difference I swear to my life will be together till God sends one home.

3 (32m 59s):
So you told her, you told her, if you take me out of here, I'll, I'll love you forever, basically. So, so she know, she knows that you, there's something that you want. She so she knows that there's something that you want beyond. That's what beyond her.

7 (33m 13s):
Yes. Sure.

3 (33m 20s):
I've been reaching out to Lottie for weeks with no luck to get her side of all of this. Then finally, early one morning around 3:00 AM

13 (33m 30s):
Hello,

14 (33m 31s):
Hello,

13 (33m 32s):
Hello.

3 (33m 34s):
She called me back and we talked for a while. I didn't know what to expect, but Lottie was very open about her life. She told me more about her work, caring for the elderly, the grandson who put her up in her own apartment when she got older. And then of course we talked about her feelings for Mark.

13 (33m 52s):
I love Mark. I didn't even know, I can't even understand how I fell in love with Mark, because I ain't never dealt with no young man. I was just talking to him as a friend.

3 (34m 5s):
Lottie can be a little hard to understand sometimes it's because of a botched intubation she went through years ago. But I have to say, despite that, she doesn't come off as the kind of person who doesn't have agency over her life. At 73, she can clearly hold her own

13 (34m 21s):
And I don't let nothing stop me. Do you see my picture on Facebook?

14 (34m 26s):
Yeah. Yeah. I've seen it.

13 (34m 29s):
Do I look like I'm 73 years old?

3 (34m 33s):
My mother definitely taught me better than to comment on a woman's age. But I will say and Lottie's profile picture, she has a very youthful energy about her. In our conversation, she confirmed all of what Mark said about their relationship and how intense their connection was from the start.

13 (34m 50s):
I never experienced anything like

14 (35m 3s):
When you and Mark met in that first year or so, what was going on in your life?

13 (35m 10s):
I was like, sad. You know, I wasn't happy. I I was lonely and from talking to him, that's how my heart grew to him. We talk about life together. I have dreams sometimes of me and Mark, mark coming in the house one day and how happy I was.

14 (35m 41s):
So you, you feel like he loves you for who you are?

13 (35m 44s):
Yes.

3 (35m 46s):
Lottie said that it had been a while since men her age gave her a chance. It had been more than 10 years since her previous relationship. And with Mark, she felt like she'd found something real. But some of the things she told me about her life were head spinning. She told me about a violent fight with one of her adult kids and how in a separate incident in 2002, she was convicted of child abuse and was sentenced to two and a half years in prison. It made me worry for Mark A. Little bit, like, does he really know this person? When I told him about what Lottie had said, he told me he wasn't aware of any of that stuff. But he didn't find it alarming.

3 (36m 27s):
He said, after all the good she's done for him, he's not gonna turn his back on her. Now after six months of a long distance relationship in countless marathon phone sessions, mark got what he was looking for. Lottie agreed to marry him. The initial plan was for her to go to salon, but her doctors told her the travel would be bad for her health. So instead they decided to bring Mark to the states. Here's Mark.

7 (36m 59s):
She even bought the ring, bought everything, masu everything for the wedding. She even choose the my best man. She already choosing them from the church. Wow. Yes. And everyone, everyone was waiting for, for, for them to witness this married

3 (37m 16s):
Mark wanted ahead and applied for a visitor's visa to the us and Lottie wrote an official letter to the US Embassy in saloon, inviting him to come next up was an interview with a woman at the American Embassy. She said to him,

7 (37m 30s):
What is your name? I show her my name and who is this to you? I say, she's my lover.

3 (37m 36s):
The interviewer asked a lot of questions, carefully grilling him about every detail of his plan. Mark was nervous, but he was prepared. He knew Lottie's address by heart. He felt like he'd answered every question right until the end. When the interviewer looked up at him,

7 (37m 53s):
She said, well, I'm sorry. Better luck next time

3 (37m 58s):
She said that. She said, better luck next time.

7 (38m 0s):
Yeah. I'm sorry. I cannot issue better luck next time. Wow. Yeah.

3 (38m 6s):
How did you, what did you say back?

7 (38m 10s):
It was like tears started falling down my my eyes.

3 (38m 14s):
Oh, you started crying right

7 (38m 16s):
There. Yeah. Started crying right there. Embarrassing.

3 (38m 25s):
I wasn't surprised that Mark didn't get it. It's always hard for someone like Mark, someone without a job or a house to tie them to their home country to get a visitor's visa to America. Officials are afraid that people like that, basically poor people won't have a reason to return. It's messed up and I feel for Mark in an instant, all the physical and emotional labor he'd invested to get to this point was wiped away, erased by stranger behind a desk. I've known a lot of folks in Salon who've been denied a visa, and Mark responded to his rejection the way they all eventually do with optimism.

3 (39m 6s):
Because what other choice is there in a situation like this?

7 (39m 9s):
That is the appears moment for me. Right. It

3 (39m 12s):
Was like a official thing. It was very

7 (39m 14s):
Official, yeah. For me to go to the walk into America. Wow. <unk> for an interview. Wow. Even if, even when they don't issue me visa, I'm sad about that. I'm not happy. It hurts me, but at the same time I'm happy. Cause I went there for an interview because

3 (39m 32s):
You got to touch a piece of America.

7 (39m 34s):
Yeah. It's really, really a blessing to me.

3 (39m 37s):
After the failed interview at the embassy, mark and Lottie tried to regroup and come up with a different plan, but her health worsened. Then one day last year, Lottie didn't answer the phone. When Mark called for weeks, he couldn't reach her until finally she messaged him on Facebook. She told him she'd been in the hospital at one point. Her heart stopped. It took them eight minutes to revive her. When she got out of the hospital, mark says she was more isolated than before and her life felt more difficult.

7 (40m 9s):
Things are really hard for her because like she's all alone in, in a house. People don't come to help. Sometimes I shed tears for her. It's really paining me. I pray five times a day and every day I pray for

3 (40m 33s):
Talking to Mark. I can tell that he's genuinely troubled by what Lottie's been going through. It's also true that since the downturn in her health, his circumstances have gotten worse. He says, without the money she was sending, he got evicted. He doesn't always have money for food, but he insists even though Lottie has stopped supporting him, he still feels responsible for her.

7 (40m 57s):
When she was supporting me, when she was like, she was okay, she was not sick. And now if she's like in this difficult time, she's not even walking. I think I should be with her too. And that's my my duty to look after her. Nothing does not, the love does not stop. Cause I love her. Cause I have all religions to her. I love her relationship, so I love her.

3 (41m 22s):
The way Mark is talking about Lottie here, it reminds me of a business person talking about sunk costs. Someone who's reluctant to give up on something they've invested in for a long time. It brings me right back to my initial worry. What does Mark actually feel and what is he convincing himself? He feels there's a part of me that believes you, but then there's a part of me that's still like, this doesn't, this, this makes, this doesn't look, this doesn't look right. It doesn't feel right. It like, it literally, it looks, it looks like, yeah, it looks like you're using her and she's using you. It looks like she's lonely and she wants somebody to talk to.

3 (42m 4s):
So she's using you for that and you don't have money and you need somebody to fund you and take you out of this place. So you're using her for that is it looks like you guys are mutually using each other and yeah, you guys love each other. You could very much love each other through that. But like, it still looks very obvious to me what's happening here. It looks very, look very clear to me that you didn't use <unk> use you and I, I just wanna know, I just want to know what, what you think about that or what you think about me saying that

7 (42m 48s):
Nobody's not using anyone between me and loyalty. I want people there in the United States.

3 (42m 56s):
Oh,

7 (42m 57s):
Billions. Okay. Billions. Yeah. There are billions of people, but no one sees me here. <unk> 73 years old woman sees me. It's really a blessing for me. Soon

3 (43m 10s):
The US population is actually in the millions. But you get the point. When I talked to Lottie, she also seemed to question how to think about the relationship.

13 (43m 20s):
You know him very well, right?

14 (43m 24s):
Yeah, yeah, yeah.

13 (43m 27s):
Do you think he love me?

14 (43m 31s):
Do I think he loves you?

13 (43m 34s):
Yes.

3 (43m 35s):
I got the sense that a lot of people in her life have asked her the same thing for years. And honestly it was a hard question to answer,

14 (43m 44s):
I think. I think Mark loves you the way you love him, if that makes sense.

3 (43m 55s):
It didn't make sense. So later she asked me again,

13 (43m 60s):
You think Mark really loved me?

14 (44m 7s):
I've asked him the same question, Lottie, I've asked him the same question up left, down, right and center, and he says, yes. And I'm not going be, I'm not going to like lie to you. I didn't believe him either because of the age difference, because of the cultural difference, because of the distance. So I didn't, I didn't believe him, but he, he keeps saying yes. He keeps saying, he swears up and down that he loves you. So I, I kind of have no choice but to believe him. Do you think he loves you?

13 (44m 40s):
I feel he love me in my heart. I feel he loves me.

3 (44m 45s):
Ultimately, I don't think it's my place to decide whether or not two people love each other. That's a call. Only they get to make the way everyone else gets to. But I do know both Mark and Lottie have been through plenty of heartbreak. And I know heartbreak is just love without a place to call home. The fact that two black people were struggling to find that home on damn near opposite ends of the earth, both from two vastly different cultures and generations. This says a lot about how hard it can be for black folks to love and be loved in this world. For us, there's a whole host of historical, political and economic forces that can send our search for partnership down wayward paths.

3 (45m 28s):
And after years of wandering, mark and Lottie felt like they'd finally landed on something. But what I want for them is what I want for a lot of us ease. Mark deserves to be in a relationship that's free from people's judgment. Maybe that comes with a partner closer to his age in Salon or in America. And Lottie deserves a relationship where she doesn't have to worry about whether someone's using her and whether she's loved what they have now is not simple, it's not easy. But then again, when has love ever been that

0 (46m 12s):
<unk> Thomas Jr. He's the host of Podcast Resistance. His story was produced by a we speak.

2 (46m 35s):
It's, it's up to me and you

0 (46m 48s):
Coming up take Notaro then a love that dare not speak its name. It's in a minute. Chicago Bubble Radio. When our program continues,

16 (46m 59s):
This is what getting to the truth sounds like. Are you intending to seek reelection? What? Cooking a crazy fast dinner on a Tuesday sounds like par and tastes like it's delicious. What? Choosing a doorbell camera recommended by experts sounds like what? Winning spelling bee sounds like. Woo. Genius. What? Following your favorite teams every play sounds like New York Times All Access, all your interests, all our expertise, all in one subscription. How's that sound to subscribe? Visit ny times.com/all access

0 (47m 31s):
This American Life, my Glass. Today's program. So close and yet so far stories of people who feel so near to each other and yet are kept apart. And before we move to act two, we heard about one instance of this kind of thing in the story Jake Ahart did on the website, Gothamist. And basically what happened is, a few days ago, the New York City Fire Department received this emergency call.

17 (47m 53s):
What's the address in Staten Island?

18 (47m 56s):
We don't know.

17 (47m 57s):
You don't know?

18 (47m 58s):
Go. Yeah, we're like, we're stuck in the sewers.

17 (48m 2s):
You're stuck. Where? In

18 (48m 4s):
In the sewers.

0 (48m 5s):
In the sewers. Five kids, Staten Island, you know, a normal Tuesday night.

17 (48m 10s):
How did you guys get in there?

18 (48m 13s):
Went through the tunnel.

0 (48m 15s):
They went through the tunnels, the dispatcher hands over the call to another dispatcher. Marlin Taxi.

18 (48m 21s):
Yeah.

17 (48m 21s):
Hey, did you guys go on from Broadway or Marling? The main entrance.

18 (48m 25s):
It's, it's like Clove

17 (48m 27s):
Lake. Where in the parking lot?

18 (48m 30s):
No, no, no. You know where the cemetery is?

17 (48m 34s):
Okay, I know where cemetery across the street. Yeah.

18 (48m 36s):
Yeah.

0 (48m 37s):
Can we just step back and admire this dispatcher who seems to know every sewer entrance on Staten Island?

17 (48m 42s):
Okay, but what do you, what do you mean by a sewer? Is it like a grate?

18 (48m 45s):
It's like, it's like a tunnel where all the pipes are,

0 (48m 48s):
It's like a tunnel where all the pipes are we

18 (48m 51s):
Called. It's like, it's like a condo.

17 (48m 53s):
Listen to me. I know, I know the area. Listen to me. Hey, I know the area very well. I'm trying to ask you, how did you get to the sewer? You walked through the cemetery, right? Yes. Did you go right or left at the end of the cemetery? I need you to guide me.

18 (49m 7s):
No, we went like down.

17 (49m 8s):
You went down. Okay.

0 (49m 10s):
Very quickly they figured out where the kids

17 (49m 12s):
Are. Stay on the line. We're gonna get you some help. Okay?

18 (49m 15s):
I I hear siren.

17 (49m 17s):
Hang on, I hear the siren.

18 (49m 22s):
Yeah, it sounded like they went,

17 (49m 27s):
Hold on, we're gonna get you. Yes. Now you can scream as loud as you can. They want you to scream and yell. They can hear you. They can hear you. So scream

0 (49m 36s):
These kids, it's like they went through a trapped door from regular New York to underground New York. It was going on all the time. Of course, under the city sewers and tunnels and water mains, literally just shouting distance away and shouting is all the little take now for them to tap the ruby slippers three times and get home.

18 (49m 54s):
Buddy.

17 (49m 54s):
Call for help guys. They hear you call for help

0 (50m 9s):
If you listen very closely. It sounds like one of the kids actually laughs a little on that last scream. Like, it is so weird. An adult is asking them to do this. The kids were rescued pretty quickly. None of them were hurt.

17 (50m 20s):
Keep screaming, guys, keep screaming. I want you guys to,

2 (50m 43s):
Which

0 (50m 44s):
Brings us to act two, but we have another kind of rescue, another fire department Act two Fire Sal. So comedian Tig Natara has been on our show many, many times talking about her random encounters with Pop star Taylor Dane or Memorably. She was diagnosed with stage two cancer and went up on stage that night and did a standup set about it that we played here on the show. Lately, when she goes on stage, she's been talking a lot about her wife Stephanie and their two kids, Finn and Max and their home life together. And she has this story of being so close to someone and yet so far from them that she recorded at the Comedy Club Largo in Los Angeles.

0 (51m 25s):
This happened one night when she and Stephanie went to a film and got home late.

19 (51m 31s):
She fell asleep immediately. And I was up, I was having some pain in my stomach and I, because she fell asleep right away, I thought, well, I'm not gonna wake her up. So I was lying there thinking, I'm sure this is nothing, you know, all of my medical issues usually aren't anything. So this is probably another one of those situations and three hours pass. And I'm like, am worse and worse. And I finally tapped her and I said, I am in so much pain right now. And she said like, completely groggy, just, do you think it's all the popcorn that you ate tonight?

19 (52m 14s):
And I said, Hmm, I don't, I don't, I've been eating popcorn for almost 50 years now. Not consistently, but this is not popcorn pain. And she said, well, we should probably be safe and just go to the emergency room. And I was like, oh my God, that's so dramatic. And, and she said, well, you know, I just, we shouldn't take any chances, so why don't you get up and get dressed and we'll go. And I said, well, the thing is is I don't, I don't know if I can even walk. I'm in so much pain. And she said, oh my God, you can't walk.

19 (52m 56s):
Well then I'm calling 9 1 1 and I was like, oh my God, that's so dramatic. It's gonna be lights and sirens flying down our street. What if this is nothing? She calls 9 1 1. And this gigantic fireman appears at our bedroom door. I mean, he's huge and he has rubber boots to here. He has fireman pants on muscles out to here, suspenders, no shirt. And I'm lying there in bed.

19 (53m 37s):
So I felt so vulnerable because I was in so much pain and I'm in my nightgown. And of course I don't wear a nightgown. You know me better than that. You think I wear a nightgown? I could feel the tension in the room. Are you like, she wears a nightgown? That's, no, I don't wear a nightgown. I think the last time I wore a nightgown was probably 1977. Probably had a little poo bear on the front, scooping honey out of a clay pot.

19 (54m 22s):
Anyway, I I, I was lying in bed, totally feeling vulnerable. And, and he got down next to me and he said, listen, I understand you're in a lot of pain and I just want you to know that there's an ambulance outside if you, if you need. And I said, I appreciate it. I just really don't wanna waste anybody's time if this is nothing. And he said, it's up to you, it's, it's there. And I said, I don't know if I can walk. And he said, that is not a problem.

19 (55m 6s):
And he scooped me up in his arms. And I'm telling you in that moment, I was just like, ho, ho. I could get used to this, but bing. But I mean truly. I was like, oh, I get it now if you think you're surprised, think how I felt in that moment. I have never been more confused.

19 (55m 47s):
I was like, he was holding me and I was just dangling in his arms with my nightgown flowing. But let me tell you what really surprised me when I found out this was my tie. Here's what I didn't know I was into, he had a mustache. I was like, yes, please, that'll do just fine. That is my type.

19 (56m 29s):
I didn't know. Here's the thing is you can fall for and be attracted to anybody. It can happen at any time. And I always thought, okay, if I'm ever into a guy, here's what I thought my type would be. I was like, it's probably gonna be a singer songwriter, probably gonna be a poet, probably gonna be a painter, have a slight build, we'll share a wardrobe. I did not think that this gigantic fireman was gonna be what it was all about for me.

19 (57m 16s):
So he's carrying me in his arms. We're going down the hall and I said, listen, when we pass this door, if you could just be extra quiet because if my kids wake up, come out and see this, this is going to be confusing on so many different levels. And he was great about it. You know how he is. He's just, he's the best classic him, you know, he's just tiptoeing past their bedroom. We go down the stairs and Stephanie's father lives with us and we, he carries me past my father-in-law and Stephanie opens the door and we walked past her and I just turned and was like, goodbye.

19 (58m 9s):
Old life. We get out to the ambulance, he gently places me on the gurney, kisses me on the forehead, and then pushes me into the back there and then shuts the doors. And then wouldn't you know it? I was like, oh God, hey, apparently my roommate is worried about me and wants to join us.

19 (58m 58s):
Thanks a lot Stephanie. Total buzz kill. But as I suspected, it ended up not being anything too serious. I was just bleeding internally. But the couple of weeks later, I was at a party and I was talking to some people about the, the fireman. I was like, this guy was so incredibly hot. He, you know, just muscles, mustache. And, and I was going on and on. Stephanie walks up and overhears this and she has this look of disgust on her face and just like, I'm sorry, but you thought that fireman was hot.

19 (59m 45s):
I was like, yeah, this is not up for discussion. This is not a matter of opinion, this is a matter of fact. And I don't know if any of you have experienced this or not, but there is nothing more awkward than finding out in a social situation that you and your wife have completely different tastes in men.

0 (1h 0m 30s):
Tig Netta, she's the host of the podcast. Don't ask tig, she's appearing in Red Bank, New Jersey and April and other places too to find out when she's coming to your town. Her website is tig netta.com

2 (1h 0m 47s):
Up here every to you.

0 (1h 1m 5s):
Hello Program is produced today by Lily Sullivan. The people who put together today show include El Baker, Zoe Chase, Jean Cole, Michael Kornfeld, Valerie Kipp Tobin, Elfa Nelson, Katherine Rayo, Raymond Ryan Rum, Charlotte Sleeper, Ikes Re, Khaja, Francis Swanson, Christopher Sala, Matt Tierney and Julie Whitaker are managing editors. Saara Abdurahman, our senior editor, David Kastenbaum, are executive editor is Emmanuel Barry. Special thanks, David Oden Young, Maryam Monterey, Vicki Ramo, she Rickson, and Diane M. Stewart, the author of Black Women, black Love America's War on African-American Marriage. Our website, this american life.org where you can stream our archive of over 750 episodes for absolutely free. Also, there's lots of other stuff there.

0 (1h 1m 46s):
Videos, lists of favorite shows. Again, this American life.org, this American Life is deliver delivered to public radio stations by prx, the public radio exchange. Thanks as always, to a program's co-founder, Mr. Tory Maia. You know, he has a new pickup line, uses it every time he is in a bar. Now,

3 (1h 2m 3s):
The visionary, feminist writer, bell Hooks says Love is made up of seven parts.

0 (1h 2m 8s):
I'm Eric Glass. Back next week with more stories of this American life. Next week on the podcast of this American life, when Casey's mom died, her dad went on kind of a tear, made a scene in a restaurant, and when the cops dragged him out, he urged everyone to throw nuts in his mouth, yelling, nut me where he went to his hairdresser, pulled

21 (1h 2m 37s):
Out a $20 bill and it's Andrew Jackson. And I said, I wanna look like this.

0 (1h 2m 45s):
Dad's weird grief. Next week on the podcast, your local Bubba Radio station.