Saks.com (0s):
Sax.com editors are always tracking the top styles that are trending right now. Tailored blazers and mid dresses are selling out@sax.com, especially from brands like Veronica Beard and the row and sax.com. Editors are seeing the Web's oversized tote on the streets of New York, Milan and Paris. If you want your own free personalized trend recommendations sax.com, stylists can do that and more. Plus there's free shipping and returns all the time@sax.com.

1 (31s):
Hi, podcast listeners Ira here with a quick note before the show For years the people at the Moth, I've done these storytelling workshops with teenagers and they've started a podcast with some of the best stories that came out of that. The show is hosted by two alums of the program who are now in their twenties and one of the hosts describes the show as the show they wish they had had when they were teenagers. And so they're trying to get out the word. This show exists if you're a teenager, 15 and over and you're looking for a podcast or if you know somebody like that, check it out. It's called Grown Older People might like it too. You can get it wherever you get your podcast. And now here's today's show.

2 (1m 9s):
A quick warning. There are curse words that are un beeped in today's episode of the show. If you prefer a beeped version, you can find that at our website, this american life.org.

1 (1m 20s):
That happened nine months ago in Georgia.

3 (1m 23s):
I was at work and I ate a Reese's Cup, which is what I usually eat, and I don't know, I just felt really sick immediately.

1 (1m 32s):
Taylor was pretty sure, not totally sure, but pretty sure it was the same with Kay in Ohio. She suspected, but it was confusing.

4 (1m 42s):
Yeah, yeah, I had covid the same time, so it was just kinda like, is it covid, is it not? I had like a little bit of nausea, but honestly I just kind of chalked it up to not really like feeling the best.

1 (1m 56s):
Ashley in Texas, she was nauseous too, but her kids just had a stomach bug

5 (2m 1s):
And so I had been feeling sick, but then everyone else felt better and come the morning of 4th of July, like I just threw up so hard. I mean I don't, I know if this is kind of like too much information, but yeah, I wasn't puking out my food from last night. I didn't have stomach poisoning. I was dry heaving, like it was a pregnancy, hormonal morning sickness, puking, which if you've puked for entire pregnancies before, it's very specific.

1 (2m 29s):
Katie was one of many women whose boyfriends insisted on multiple tests. Her boyfriend did not believe it.

7 (2m 36s):
He, when he saw it, he was like, no, it could be wrong. Take another one, take another one. It's going to, it's, it could be wrong. And it was one of the digital ones, so it wasn't like we read the lines wrong or anything, it was a digital one and it like came back quick, but I was like, there's no way it's wrong.

1 (2m 52s):
It wasn't wrong. She was pregnant, they were all pregnant and they all did not want to be pregnant. But they all lived in states that had just banned abortion. Taylor in Georgia.

3 (3m 4s):
I was very naive about it because I had totally forgot, I think Roe v. Wade was maybe like in May

1 (3m 9s):
This June, the Supreme Court overturned Roe v. Wade, the ruling that made abortion a constitutional right. That happened the week before Taylor got pregnant.

3 (3m 18s):
Yeah, so it was new, but it also wasn't something that was like important to me on the regular, you know, day-to-day. So I got on the phone and I called and they were super rude to me at Planned Parenthood. I was like, well I don't even think I'm six weeks. And I really wasn't understanding what she was saying because she was saying, it doesn't really matter, you we're, we're just not gonna be able to do it, you know? And that's when I was like, oh, like I totally forgot that this is like this new thing where I can't go and get it done. I have to go somewhere else.

1 (3m 48s):
Kay and Ohio was also looking for a clinic. She started calling immediately.

4 (3m 52s):
They didn't have anything for like, I think it was like a month or two and yeah, it was so backed up and it was like that pretty much everywhere I had checked. It was either like a few weeks to a couple months,

1 (4m 9s):
They'd have to wait. It's been nine months since the Supreme Court overturned Roe v Wade and to mark that fact. On today's show, we're gonna look at what these last nine months have been like for people who discovered they were pregnant, right when the laws changed in their states and came up against a wall trying to find an abortion. These are people who nine months ago found themselves waiting for an appointment, waiting to get together, money to travel, to make a plan, just to get somebody on the phone. And in that waiting, there was time for other things to happen. For instance, Kay and Ohio and Taylor and Georgia were both waiting for an appointment and one day Kay and her boyfriend walked Dairy Queen.

4 (4m 50s):
It wasn't until the walk back that we started to talk about it and we were both kind of joking about the fact that, you know, like, oh, I wonder what our baby would look like. And so we were like discussing like, oh, what color eyes do you think they would have? What color hair? We got to talking about like what we were like as kids and then we were like, yeah, that you know, could be I guess fun to have our own. I was like watching us talk about how we were and I was like, yeah, that would be awesome to like have you know a baby with this person talking through it. I was like, oh my gosh, like am I changing my mind?

4 (5m 30s):
Like am I gonna keep it?

1 (5m 32s):
Taylor started wondering the same thing. She'd been certain until she waited first of the ultrasound appointment and then for the abortion it was weeks and weeks.

3 (5m 43s):
I just spent a lot of time thinking what I wanted. If I felt like, you know, do I wanna have a kid or not? I think it was the first time for someone like me who's very sure of themselves, that was the first time I was ever stumped.

1 (5m 57s):
If Can Taylor had been pregnant weeks earlier, they both would've gotten abortions at nearby clinics. But now this new reality set them both on very different paths cuz they tried to find their way to an abortion from WBE Z Chicago, it's this American life Amira Glass. Today's show nine months after the end of Roe v. Wade, today's episode was inspired by the excellent reporting of Caroline Kitchner who covers abortion for the Washington Post. If you've ever seen her stories, Caroline's reporting just gets inside people's lives in this way that feels very unusual, intimate, and very real. And you see how not black and white people's feelings and situations can be she'll be with us for the hour.

1 (6m 42s):
Stay with us. Okay, First trimester. So we start today's show in those first few months right after the court's decision and how this played out for Can Taylor, who both ears found out they were pregnant and both wanted abortions. 14 states that banned most abortions since Roe was overturned. And for some people that's it, they won't get abortions, but others of course can. Taylor, they're still gonna try to get one and for them the state bans are a hurdle that slow things down as they try to figure out how the anti-abortion movement is aware that there's this new window of time where maybe they could reach these people and persuade them to change their minds.

1 (7m 27s):
Since fall road, there's been a big push to do just that, to increase state funding for crisis pregnancy centers, which are to get millions of dollars from taxpayers. These are clinics whose whole mission is to convince people to not get abortions. Meanwhile, online any abortion folks are trying to connect with people who are looking for information about abortions. And any abortion activist reached both Kay and Taylor during the first trimesters and each responded very differently. Caroline Kitchener watched this unfold for each of them in two separate states week by week. Just a, a quick note that we've changed some names in today's show for people who requested that for privacy, though Kay and Taylor are their real names.

1 (8m 8s):
Anyway, here's Caroline.

8 (8m 10s):
Kay was in Ohio, Taylor was in Georgia. Both states had just banned abortion after six weeks of pregnancy. That leaves a super short window to get an abortion. From the beginning, Kate tried to approach her pregnancy the way she approaches other things in her life. She's methodical, organized. Kay is 25 years old. White owns her own pet sitting business. She kept track of her periods on an app and when she missed one, she took a pregnancy test, it was positive she started calling clinics to try to get an appointment for an abortion. Kate wasn't completely sure she wanted one. Ever since that walk with her boyfriend to the Dairy Queen, she'd started going back and forth wondering if maybe she should keep the pregnancy.

8 (8m 54s):
After all, she made a ProCon list. She really wasn't sure. Her boyfriend kept telling her that he'd support her no matter what. That wasn't exactly helpful. She pressed him trying to figure out what he actually thought

4 (9m 8s):
Because I was like, well okay, I'm making up my mind like I'm gonna have an abortion. How do you feel about that? That's fine. Okay, well I changed my mind and now I'm thinking about keeping it. How do you feel about that? That's fine. And I was like, dude, what the hell? Come on. Like gimme something more. It was just kinda like wanting almost like somebody to tell me what to do because I felt so out of control of the situation that like I just needed like somebody almost to like help me make the decision.

8 (9m 42s):
Finally, Kay found a woman's center online that offered free ultrasounds and abortion consultations. They had an appointment right away.

4 (9m 50s):
I remember my first thought was like, wow, this is super purple.

8 (9m 56s):
What was purple?

4 (9m 58s):
Pretty much everything. The walls, some of like the decor, I just remember like it was very like calming and quiet. I remember them offering me like ginger ale and I was just like, yeah, I'll take ginger ale. I'm like super nauseous.

8 (10m 14s):
The women's center was actually a crisis pregnancy center. Those are places where staff are specially trained to talk people out of having abortions, but Kay didn't know any of that. She was there to get an answer to a question, could she get an abortion in Ohio at all? Was she still under six weeks? The crisis pregnancy center gave her an ultrasound.

4 (10m 35s):
I was like, okay, well how far along am I? And they were like too early to even tell. It's too early to like say anything.

8 (10m 47s):
A trained ultrasound tech should have been able to give her some sense of how far along she was starting around five weeks, which is right where Kay thought she was.

4 (10m 55s):
Obviously I'm not a doctor so I'm not gonna like argue, argue with somebody, but I was kinda like looking at it, I'm like, there's nothing you can tell me. Like absolutely nothing. And I was just like, is there anything, like any type of estimate? And she was like, I can't say like we will just have to like reschedule another ultrasound about a week from now. The only thing that kept going through my head was like, I'm going to be past six weeks.

8 (11m 31s):
Here is something I've heard from abortion providers. Crisis pregnancy centers will sometimes delay telling people how far along they are or they'll misinformed people about how far along they are until abortion is no longer an option. The doctors tell me they've heard this from patients who come in to see them after going to a pregnancy center. Kay had wanted someone to help her decide what to do with this pregnancy and she'd walked into a place that was specifically set up to do just that. Meanwhile, Taylor could not get an abortion in Georgia because she was too far along.

8 (12m 11s):
She had to fly to Florida for her appointment, but the soonest one she could get was weeks away. Taylor is 27 years old, black. She studied film in college, ended up working an office job at a financial services company. She just got in her first apartment also, she's a little bit nerdy, big red at user. When she hears something that piques her interest, her first move is usually to scout around for the relevant subreddit. They were extensive. So when she learned that her abortion procedure would use a suction tool, Taylor wanted to know more

3 (12m 43s):
Screen. I actually went home and looked it up because I think a lot of times the only images we have are like of people who are pro-life who wanna show you like pieces of gutted fetuses. So I didn't look up anything like that, but I was able to see like an animated version of what it looks like when the, when the actual surgical tool is in the body and it pulls the fetus out.

8 (13m 9s):
A tube would be inserted inside her uterus, a pump, and then the suction.

3 (13m 14s):
You know? And it made me wonder if the kid was alive or not and if it is gonna hurt him if they used that tool. I just thought that there would be a more advanced way to do it that wouldn't be that gruesome, you know? And it made me wonder if it's too barbaric or too archaic or too violent.

8 (13m 42s):
Taylor had pretty uncomplicated feelings about abortion up until now. See the extent she'd ever thought about it. She always figured that if she did get pregnant unexpectedly, she'd go to the Planned Parenthood clinic down the road from her apartment and that would be that. But now she wasn't sure what to do. She called her aunt and she said,

3 (14m 1s):
I don't know if I'm comfortable doing this. And she was just like, listen, you cannot afford a kid. That's just the end of the day. It doesn't matter if you think the procedure is barbaric, they do it every day. They do it. This is a very common procedure. This is not anything you need to be alarmed about, you know, you'll be just fine.

8 (14m 19s):
Her aunt reminded her that she didn't have a lot of savings. Her new job wasn't a done deal. She still had to pass a big exam to keep it and she didn't know how to drive. Taylor says it was kind of insulting. She called her boyfriend. They were long distance. He had just moved to Florida and the clinic she'd picked for the abortion was near where he lived now on the phone, she told him she was having doubts. He assured her that was totally normal and he had his own theory to explain her feelings.

3 (14m 49s):
What he was saying was that he felt like because he was so far away, maybe the baby was away for me to feel more connected to him. Then I was just like, what the f? I just immediately was like, you're not that important to me. I think I'm pretty sure I'm still in control of how I feel. If I was having second thoughts, it would 100% be because of me and no one else. You know, like a baby is not something that you use to feel closer to another person like, like it was just such a weird thing to even suggest like me wanting to emotionally connect with him through the baby. And that's when I went out for other people's opinions.

8 (15m 26s):
Taylor found herself in the exact same spot as Kay in Ohio, asking other people what she should do. Like Kay Taylor would soon find herself face to face with the anti-abortion movement, people who were ready and eager to influence her decision. When Kay left her appointment at the pregnancy center in Ohio, she still didn't know it wasn't a regular abortion friendly medical clinic. The staff handed her a gift bag. It had a nail file, many, many pamphlets, spearmint gum to help with nausea and prenatal vitamins, which she did think was a little bit weird.

8 (16m 9s):
She told them that she was planning to get an abortion.

4 (16m 12s):
It was the way that they described them that made me think that they weren't completely listening to me because they were like, well this is for the health of your pregnancy moving forward. And like, well the pregnancy isn't moving forward. Like having somebody give me these options and almost push the option I wanted to decide like it wasn't even really like a choice that really just like irked me. And I was like, well this is what I want. And you're not even like listening to me like I would expect this from like a man or something. But to have other women disregard what I was saying was one of the most irritating things to me.

8 (16m 59s):
Crisis pregnancy centers have carefully thought through all these moves to push people away from abortion. But for Kay, it actually seemed like it was backfiring. It was making her more sure that she wanted an abortion. When she left, she looked up abortion pills online and found aid access an organization based in Europe that sends pills to all 50 states, even states where abortion is banned. They operate in this kind of legal gray area that made Kay nervous, but she put in the order anyway, she still wanted to know how far along she was. So she went back for another scan at the Crisis Pregnancy Center. People who work at crisis pregnancy centers, they see their work as saving lives.

8 (17m 42s):
That's what they're there for. I talked to several staffers at centers who told me they find immense fulfillment in convincing even just one person to keep their pregnancy. And part of that is making the best case they can for not having an abortion. Kay got on the ultrasound table for a second time. They asked if she wanted pictures. No thank you. She said they played her something. They called a heartbeat. Technically doctors say this is not a heartbeat. Kay did not wanna hear it.

4 (18m 11s):
I hadn't changed my mind. Like hearing that was just like another sound for me. And the ultrasound tech who knew that I did not want to keep this pregnancy asked me if I wanted to take pictures home with me. And I immediately was just like, no, I don't want that. And she was just like, well, are you sure? I was like, yeah, pretty sure. Like I was already angry. And then having her like question me, I was just like, you guys really just aren't getting this again. Are you sure you don't want pictures? And I was like, yes, I am very sure I plan on getting an abortion still.

4 (18m 54s):
I got my pills from eight access, I bought those, so I'm just waiting for those to get to my house. She immediately just kind of had this like change of demeanor to being like completely like defensive and that.

8 (19m 11s):
In what way? When you say defensive, what

4 (19m 13s):
Her first thing was? Oh, well you should be careful because you never know what kind of grade pill you're gonna get.

8 (19m 20s):
To be clear, there's no such thing as different grade abortion pills and eight Access has been around for years and as a widely trusted source, the crisis pregnancy center told Kay how far along she was, six weeks and three days. That meant a couple of things. First, Kay could have tried to get an abortion in a clinic in Ohio right after her last appointment. Had she known. It also meant that the week before a trained sonographer should have been able to give her some sense of how far along she was. With case permission, I reached out to the women's center, it's called Bellow Women's Center. They wouldn't gimme an interview, but they said in a statement that they don't talk about individual patients because of confidentiality.

8 (20m 4s):
They did say they are aware of the timeline pressure that comes with a six week abortion ban. And they added that they are committed to full disclosure of the patient's options. But as far as Kay was concerned, her options were dwindling. Kay wanted to take the abortion pills by the time she was 10 weeks pregnant because that's what the FDA advises. She was probably right around six weeks and the pills could take up to a month to be delivered. She was running out of time. Meanwhile, in Georgia, while Taylor waited, she fixated on one particular question.

8 (20m 46s):
She couldn't find a satisfying answer no matter how many people she talked to or how much research she did online. Would the abortion hurt the baby?

3 (20m 54s):
And the only people who have ever said abortions actually physically like hurt babies are people who are pro-life.

8 (21m 2s):
She found an anti-abortion forum online and wrote a public message.

3 (21m 7s):
Okay. Hi. Okay, let me not, hi. I am pro-choice weirdly having second thoughts about my appointment next week. Advice question mark. Question mark.

8 (21m 17s):
She writes that she is now 11 weeks pregnant.

3 (21m 20s):
I've just gotten used to being pregnant and have to fly to another state to give an abortion. And

8 (21m 25s):
Then what happened?

3 (21m 27s):
A lot of people commented on that post. I mean just like flooded. A lot of them were telling me I could get my baby away for adoption. You know, any option is better to them than to murder, quote unquote your baby.

8 (21m 45s):
Anti-abortion advocates online use all sorts of different strategies to sway people away from abortion, to do everything they can to ensure that pregnancies are carried to term.

3 (21m 56s):
Actually, this lady asked me if I would do an open adoption.

8 (21m 59s):
Oh wow. Like to give it to her.

3 (22m 2s):
Right. How

8 (22m 4s):
Did you feel about that?

3 (22m 5s):
There's no way I would do that. I think it was probably a little over 200 comments. People were offering me money. People were just like super involved in making sure I didn't go to my appointment.

8 (22m 18s):
How did it feel to read those things?

3 (22m 21s):
There's always a tone of like coercion in my opinion, but it was nice to read them because you just wanna hear other people's opinions. So just hearing that, it was nice to hear like the other side of it versus just like the answer of the abortion. But I had no one else that was actually excited for me because I will say that in the moment I really needed somebody to connect with me about how I was feeling.

8 (22m 54s):
When I first started talking to Kay and Taylor, it looked to me like they could be swayed by people who desperately wanted to sway them. Kay was trying out different decisions, auditioning them for her boyfriend, and Taylor was seeking out guidance from people she didn't even know. But then I started thinking they actually were actively deciding what voices they wanted to let in, who exactly they wanted to be influenced by. In the middle of one of the most polarized debates in America, Kay and Taylor were trying to suss out what was right for them.

3 (23m 27s):
So I would read those comments like all day. I would read those comments like at night I would read them at work, I would read them when I left work. And some of them didn't mean anything, but most of them actually meant a lot to me. But just being able to speak to someone freely and not feel like they're pushing you to a certain place. I mean they were pushing me, but they were also giving me what I asked for, which is a valid reason to not have an abortion.

8 (23m 56s):
Ultimately Taylor did go to Florida. She got on a plane to another state for an abortion. Her boyfriend picked her up from the airport at 11:00 PM

3 (24m 4s):
And the next morning it was probably like 6:00 AM but my appointment was at like eight and he was just sleeping away. No problem, no, whatever. But I was up. So I kind of woke him up a little bit and we talked

8 (24m 19s):
And they kept talking about their parents, how they were raised, what they would wanna do the same if they became parents and what they would wanna do differently. Her boyfriend said he worried his kid would struggle in school the same way he had. They wondered how much of that was genetic. They kept talking and talking.

3 (24m 37s):
Yeah, I kept looking at the clock because it's like, all right, it's six 30. Unless we threw our clothes on right now, we're gonna be like right on time. All right, it's seven. So when it started to get like 7, 10 15, 7 30, it just kind of worked out in that way where we just blew through the time and just ignored it.

8 (24m 56s):
Taylor never went to the appointment. Kay's pills arrived when she was eight weeks along when Kay took them, she was in pain more than she'd been expecting, which was scary because with all the new laws, Kay didn't feel safe calling a doctor. She didn't wanna get in trouble.

4 (25m 17s):
I was in a lot of pain. I was cramping, I was bleeding. I like went into like this little bathroom and, and I remember being like so hot because I had the light on in the bathroom. The door was closed, so like this heat was just like building up from the light and like the only thing that I could think of to help the pain was like a warm shower, even though like I was so hot and I turned the shower on and I kind of like contemplated getting in for a few minutes cuz I was like, oh my God, like what if it doesn't help? And I'm just like roasting myself alive.

4 (25m 58s):
And I ended up just getting in and it was like immense relief.

8 (26m 3s):
It was done perk, but not for Taylor.

1 (26m 15s):
Caroline, Kitchener. As we were putting this straight together, the legal landscape changed a few times in many states, including Ohio, where Kay lives. Ohio's abortion ban was challenged in court and right now there's temporary injunction, which means that abortion is still legal there for up to 22 weeks. But abortion pills like the ones at K took may soon be harder to come by. Thanks to a decision just this week by a federal judge in Texas. That decision if it stands, could make abortion, abortion pills harder to get in other states too. Coming up. What happens next with Taylor and our video arcade can make almost anything feel better That's in a minute. From Chicago Bubble Radio when our program continues.

BetterHelp (26m 58s):
Support for this American life comes from good rx. If you're looking to take control of your health, GoodRx can help you stop overpaying for your prescription medications. With GoodRx, you can compare prescription prices at over 70,000 pharmacies and instantly find discounts of up to 80%. And even if you have insurance or Medicare, GoodRx may beat your copay price. So for simple smart savings on your prescriptions, go to goodrx.com/t a l

Indeed (27m 24s):
Support for this American Life comes from. Indeed, indeed is the hiring platform where you can attract interview and hire all in one place. Don't spend hours on multiple job sites looking for candidates with the right skills when you can do it all with indeed. Find top talent fast, with indeed suite of powerful hiring tools like matching assessments and virtual interviews. And now with Indeed, you only pay for quality applications that meet your hiring criteria. Visit indeed.com/american to start hiring now. That's indeed.com/american terms and conditions apply. Cost per application pricing not available for everyone need to hire you need indeed.

The Coldest Case in Laramie (28m 2s):
I'm Kim Barker, host of the coldest case in Laramie. A show from Serial Productions in the New York Times in 1985, I was a high school sophomore in Laramie, Wyoming when a woman was brutally murdered there the crime was never solved. Then a few years back the police arrested someone for the murder. A former Laramie cop, his D n a was found that the crime scene. But then prosecutors dropped the charges. So I went back to Laramie to try to find answers. The coldest case in Laramie. Listen wherever you get your podcast,

1 (28m 34s):
It's this American life. My glass. Today's show, nine months later, it's been nine months since the Supreme Court overturned Roe v Wade. Our program today is about people who discovered that they were pregnant and did not wanna be right. When that ruling came down and made abortions largely illegal in their states. We're following what's happened to those people in the first trimester. And now in this next part of our show, in the second trimester, back before Roe fell, the vast number of abortions did happen in the first trimester. But now because it can take so long to figure out what to do or for abortion pills to come in the mail, doctors say they're seeing an increasing number of people seeking abortions.

1 (29m 14s):
In the second trimester, there's a hotline, the miscarriage and abortion hotline, which was started to help patients who are taking abortion pills at home. And it's beginning a lot more calls from people who are taking pills later in their pregnancy than the 10 weeks the FDA has approved. Now to be clear, the pills are still safe after 10 weeks, but there can be complications and the whole experience can be more intense.

11 (29m 37s):
People call a lot to just say, does this sound like it's going okay? Because I'm so afraid that if I need to get medical care, I'll get arrested.

1 (29m 49s):
Dr. Going to prime help start the hotline, talk with us and with a medical storytelling podcast called The Nocturnists about what she's been seeing. She said she used to answer questions from people in first trimester abortions about how much bleeding is normal, how do they know if the pills worked? But now she says at least once a day she'll get a call. That's very different.

11 (30m 8s):
It's taken them so long to get their pills that by the time they use them, they're 14 weeks, 16 weeks, 20 weeks. And we get calls about, you know, the fetus just came out and I don't know what to do about the tissue that's stuck. How do I, how do I do this? There's the cord or there's, I think the placenta stuck in my cervix. Or you know, sometimes they don't even ha you know, they don't have the vocabulary to explain what's happening, but they're just like, I can tell there's more tissue and I don't know how to get it out.

11 (30m 49s):
And what should I do?

1 (30m 51s):
At that point, she has to walk them through a second trimester abortion over the phone. This is part of what the second trimester looks like now. More complicated, more frightening. And the people we talked to felt very alone. We spoke with nearly a dozen people who were looking for abortions in the weeks after Roe fell. And so many of them could not decide who to trust, who to ask for help. And there's one other thing that people talked about when they talked about what they were afraid of.

7 (31m 19s):
I don't know how I would tell my mom,

1 (31m 21s):
Katie had to travel out of state for her abortion. The only appointment she could get was the same weekend as her college orientation.

7 (31m 29s):
And there's no way of rescheduling it because I wouldn't know how to tell my mom of why I wanted to reschedule it.

1 (31m 35s):
Moms, there's no figure. We heard about more than Moms tell me. People did not wanna have to talk to their moms about their abortions. Such

7 (31m 43s):
Important.

1 (31m 43s):
But it's hard. The mom caught all the time asked how they were, but they needed their mom to drive them across state lines. Like Brianna, you said she heard over 12 hours in the car of

12 (31m 56s):
It was like, I don't think you should do this, but it's your life. So it was like, you're not helping.

5 (32m 4s):
I wish I didn't have to say anything to my mom at all, but I needed the childcare, we needed the help for the weekend.

1 (32m 10s):
Ashley had to figure out what to say about why she needed to leave town.

5 (32m 14s):
She just lied. She was extremely helpful that weekend. As far as like, I think she took the kids one day so that my husband had to work Saturday, but I had to, yeah, like lie.

13 (32m 26s):
I could not tell my mom,

1 (32m 28s):
This is Jessica in Texas.

13 (32m 30s):
Telling her that I was pregnant and was not sure if I was going to keep it would've probably devastated

8 (32m 39s):
Her.

1 (32m 40s):
There's one post row, second trimester pregnancy that especially Drew Caroline in Caroline Kitchener. The reporter from the Washington Post that we're doing today's show with this particular pregnancy was in Oklahoma. A teenage girl named Lily who couldn't get an abortion without pulling in her parents. In this case. Her dad again. Who's Caroline?

8 (33m 1s):
I met Lily a few days after she got her positive pregnancy test. She was 17 years old and well into her second trimester. I like Lily right away. She was silly. It made me feel old, but in a super endearing kind of way. Lily told me she'd known this boy for a while and they had an on again off again thing since sophomore year.

14 (33m 21s):
I dunno how to explain it. He's very funny and he's very, he's very sweet and very caring. He's a little stupid, but that's okay. And yeah, we had, we had just started like hanging out again I think cuz we had been going to lunch and stuff because at my school we had gotten like 15 minute lunches and then he was like, Hey, what you doing? And I was like, oh dear God. And then it all kind of just restarted.

8 (33m 47s):
Lily had no idea she was pregnant through the entire first trimester. She had just graduated from high school, still arriving high off prom. She was making her own money, working at a sandwich shop, staying out late with friends somewhere down the line. She thought she might go to culinary school or she had an idea for a business that combined her two favorite things, tattoos and food. She would call it pies and pokes. Lily's the youngest of five, the older siblings have all moved out already, so it's just her and her dad in the house together.

14 (34m 19s):
You know what you picture when you picture like a single divorced dad, like he doesn't know how to decorate. We shop nightly for meals. He won't go shopping for like a lot of things to keep the fridge or the pantry stocked. We'll just go as we need or we'll go buy food at like fast food places or go to restaurants. And I just think it's hilarious.

8 (34m 45s):
Here's how Lily found out she was pregnant. She was at work and she called her dad with really bad stomach cramps. They ended up in the ER where they took Lily's vitals and took some urine and the doctor came in the room with this weird look on his face. He asked Lily if she was okay talking with her dad in the room. Lily was like, yeah, of course. Talk about what he told her. You're pregnant.

14 (35m 10s):
And I looked at my dad and I remember him getting all shocked and looking at me. It was good Lord. He just looked, he looked like he was definitely panicking but trying not to show me because he knew I was panicking cuz I was visibly panicking.

8 (35m 35s):
How were you like, what do you think

14 (35m 37s):
You were doing? Oh, I was crying. I was crying immediately that that's like, I literally instantly started just sobbing.

8 (35m 45s):
It turned out she was about 19 weeks along. The doctor handed her the test results and told her that she could put them in her baby book. He kept talking, but Lily was just staring at her dad studying his face.

14 (35m 59s):
I just remember being scared. I felt shaky and I just, I kind of wanted to know if he was mad at me or really just what he was thinking about. Honestly.

8 (36m 14s):
He said nothing. But at one point he did reach out to hold her hand. They left the room, walked to the car in silence. As they were driving home, Lily said he asked her right off the bat,

14 (36m 26s):
Do you know whose it is? And I was like, yeah. And he was like, well who's is it? And I was like, cuz I didn't wanna tell him cuz he knows the guy. And I was like, oh God, it was, and did you? Ah, yeah. Then he was like, oh my god, I should have your brothers kill him. Da da da.

8 (36m 47s):
She rolled her eyes and then the conversation was very much over. They drove home. She went to her bedroom, he went to his, The next day Lily sat in her room while her dad went to work and it really started to hit her. She was pregnant and abortion was now illegal in Oklahoma. There was no doubt in Lily's mind she wanted an abortion. Had she found out earlier in her pregnancy before Oklahoma banned abortion, Lily could have driven 30 minutes to a clinic to get one. But now she had to find a different way.

8 (37m 28s):
First she tried clinics in Kansas, but the clinic she called told her that she was too far along for them to see her. Then she tried New Mexico. They didn't have appointments for three to four weeks. I talked to Lily a whole bunch right around this time she was terrified. One clinic told her she was so far along they would have to induce labor to end the pregnancy. Lily told me she couldn't imagine pushing a baby out of her 95 pound body. Do you think you sounded scared on those calls?

14 (37m 60s):
Probably, yeah. I was very nervous and I, it was not fun to say on the phone. Repeatedly

8 (38m 9s):
She kept calling and calling. Eventually she found one clinic in New Mexico with an appointment the following week. She knew she wouldn't be able to get there on her own. She knew she was gonna need her dad. Lily's dad is former Air Force now. He works in it. He loves music. Lily likes to describe as dad Rock, ac dc Bonjovi. He has five kids, three boys and two girls. He grew up in a conservative family believing it was wrong to have an abortion. Lily didn't know what he would think about her wanting an abortion.

14 (38m 47s):
I was just nervous to tell him, honestly. I was nervous to see his reaction.

8 (38m 53s):
What were you worried about?

14 (38m 55s):
I just didn't want him to be disappointed. I guess

8 (39m 3s):
A few days later her dad finally asked her, so what are you gonna do? She told him, I'm not gonna have a kid. He said, you know how hard that's gonna be now. Right? Lily knew. Then her dad walked out. He said he needed a little time to process that information. Lily decided in her head that what her dad was not saying was that he wanted her to keep the baby.

14 (39m 31s):
It was, it was, it was kind of hard cuz like, I can handle my dad being mad at me, him being disappointed in me is a whole different story.

8 (39m 44s):
Was he actually disappointed? Did he actually not want her to get the abortion? What was he thinking when the doctor told them she was pregnant? When they drove home that night, Willie hadn't asked him. So I did

15 (39m 58s):
The, the first thing was, who is this kid? Right? Because there's there's a butt kicking coming. You

8 (40m 3s):
Mean, who is this person who impregnated her?

15 (40m 6s):
Yeah. Yeah. And when she told me, it kind of infuriated me a little bit more. But why? Well, because so the guy had already, he was already, he'd already gotten another like 15, 16 year old girl pregnant and had a baby with her. So yeah, the the next thing in my mind is I'm, I'm calling the three brothers and this is getting handled that, that was the immediate, you know, you've ruined your life. You know, you're 17 years old, you're gonna have a baby now. A how, how are you gonna take care of this baby? You don't even have a job. No, I think she was working at that point. You're working at Jersey Mike's making minimum wage.

15 (40m 48s):
You know, I have just gotten out of finally paying off your medical bills for your broken leg, which was also the result of a horrible decision on your part. What were you thinking

8 (40m 58s):
When Lily told her dad Justin, that she wanted an abortion? She imagined he was angry or upset, but he told me he wasn't. He was really just surprised.

15 (41m 9s):
I didn't think knowing Grace that it was gonna be an option for her.

8 (41m 14s):
Grace is his nickname for Lily. He's always called her that.

15 (41m 17s):
I, I don't know why. It just, that was my first instinct was she's gonna have his baby. I, I don't know why I thought that. Why?

8 (41m 24s):
Because she, I mean, when she talks about it, it's like there was no room for that. So it's interesting that knowing her as well as you do, that's, you know, that's kind of where your mind went.

15 (41m 34s):
This, this may sound terrible, but it probably was a result of how nurturing she is. You know, she doesn't even like to step on spiders, you know what I'm saying? So I, I just never thought that, that that would be an option for her.

8 (41m 51s):
But Justin quickly moved past shock and into action mode. He assumed that this was something that he needed to make happen for his daughter. The day Lily told him she wanted an abortion, Justin went to work and researched. He looked up clinics. He had no idea that Lily, his baby now his anxious and somewhat irresponsible teenager. She was way ahead of him.

15 (42m 14s):
Didn't really hear from her much that day. And I get home fully. She's laying on her bed. She's got her little notebook out. She's got some kind of gangster rap going on on the freaking, on the Alexa. And she's called 14 different places. She's called the Roe v. Wade Fund. She's called everything. And, and she's basically got a plan in place. And I'm like, oh wow.

8 (42m 38s):
So you thought you were gonna be the one making the phone calls?

15 (42m 40s):
I, I did. I absolutely did. It, it, it amazed me because that is not a, a trait she had displayed before and her calmness during it, that's what really stood out is like, she, she didn't, she didn't panic. She wasn't like, oh dad, help me. She was like, okay, well I gotta call this guy. I gotta call this guy.

8 (42m 57s):
What did you want her to do? What decision did you want her to make?

15 (43m 5s):
That's a great question. I, I think if you had to say what was your top choice, I would've said, yeah, keep, I, I wanted her to keep the baby. Hmm.

8 (43m 18s):
Why do you think your top choice was for her to keep it?

15 (43m 22s):
That is, that's a, that's probably a very, That probably is very psychologically deep. Hmm. And it probably has to do with Grace. Getting to the point where she's gonna leave and feeling, you know, all my children are out. Kinzie has her own kid. Michael's out there in the world doing his thing. Christopher and Brady are out in the world. So Grace is all I have left right that I know needs me. Right. Like her daily survival to some degree depends on me. And I've gone almost longer in my life with that than without that.

15 (44m 4s):
So I, I I don't know how to be the me before the kids. Right? I've always had, for the last 27 years, always had somebody that needed me. So I know if Grace has this baby, I got another, at least 18 to 20 years of being needed. And that may be purely selfish, but I, I hope that my concern for her outweighed my selfishness in that situation.

8 (44m 37s):
Justin wasn't sure he could trust his own impulses or his own feelings. That's why he didn't talk to Lily. To her it seemed like disapproval. But Justin was really just trying to give her space, not share too much of his own complicated thoughts. He knew Lily would have a hard time ignoring anything he said. When Lily asked him to drive her to New Mexico for the abortion, Justin said yes, she gotten the funds, she'd made the appointment, she had a plan. Lily was 20 weeks pregnant when she and her dad loaded up the car to drive to New Mexico together.

8 (45m 17s):
They stocked up on her favorite road trip, snacks, Pringles, and Pudding Cups. It was their first road trip together, just the two of them. And Justin told me with everything Lily had been through, he wanted to make sure they did something fun along the way. Which was funny because Lily told me this about heading out on that trip with her dad.

14 (45m 37s):
I wanted him to have like at least some sort of fun while he was out here. I thought it was really sweet that he was trying to make me feel better. Yeah. And I mean, obviously it's not fun for me, but I know it's not fun to have to see your kid. Like I wanted him to have some good memory.

8 (45m 59s):
When it was time for the procedure. It took two days because she was so far along. The doctor had to insert dilation, sticks to soften and open her cervix. Then Lily and her dad went to the hotel and they went back to the clinic in the morning and the doctor used suction to empty the uterus for about 20 minutes until the fetus was entirely out. Lily said the nurse woke her up and told her, you're done. You are no longer pregnant. She immediately noticed that her stomach didn't feel full anymore. She said it felt flat again. Afterward, Lily told Justin she wanted to go to the arcade in the mall. She wanted to try the d d R machine, but mostly she wanted to go because she thought her dad would love it.

14 (46m 43s):
But I was incredibly nauseous and like in a bunch of pain. But we still went because, you know, ball out.

15 (46m 52s):
So she was, she was sick in the car, in the parking lot when we pulled up in the, in the mall. But she was determined that she wanted to go to the arcade. So I'm like, all right, well, we'll go.

8 (47m 8s):
Was there any part of you that was like, really, like, why do you wanna do this when you're like actively sick and throwing up?

15 (47m 13s):
I was just, I, I was kind of proud. I'm like, all right, yeah, we're not gonna, yeah, little vomit ain't gonna stop us from playing some games. And after she threw up, she felt better. So, you know, we're walking around and for a while it was fun. We're playing games, we're winning toys and such a, and we ordered like some, I think we ordered like a pretzel or something, maybe from the little snack bar or whatever.

14 (47m 33s):
And we played a bunch of claw games and my dad won me a little like, duck in a hoodie. It's really cute. I still have it. I, I named him Mr. Quacker.

8 (47m 50s):
But then Lily started feeling sick again.

15 (47m 53s):
And so we're walking around trying to find the bathroom and she's like, I am not gonna make it. And I'm like, well then just go hide behind one of the arcade machines. And she sure enough made it to the side of one of the arcade machines. And then she just did, just launched it. And I'm like, yeah, we should probably go ahead and head home now.

14 (48m 10s):
I was like, started walking away to go find a worker, to tell someone like, Hey, I just threw up on your ground. I'm so sorry. My dad, my grown man dad. He goes, no, it's fine. They deal with this all the time. Let's just leave. And we just left.

15 (48m 25s):
She's like, do I need to tell somebody? And I'm like, I'm sure they're gonna figure it out.

8 (48m 34s):
It was an eight hour drive back to Oklahoma. They left at 5:00 AM the next morning. Justin drove, Lilly slept in the passenger seat. By afternoon they were home back to regular life, back to their routines.

6 (48m 49s):
Still

8 (48m 50s):
Just the two of them.

1 (48m 59s):
Third trimester. Now that we're nine months out from the Supreme Court decision, this first group of people who wanted abortions, but they live in states with abortion bans have had time to think about where they landed, how these laws affected them, people who had very different takeaways. One woman in Mississippi told us she thinks her abortion saved her life. The laws just stood in her way. She had a medical condition that made her pregnancy life threatening. A woman in Texas said the experience made her swear off men. Another woman in Texas said it made her swear off Texas. The anti-abortion forces and laws in the state seemed so menacing. She didn't even wanna reveal that she was pregnant on the standard medical form that you filled out at the chiropractor's office.

13 (49m 40s):
I didn't wanna let anybody know I was pregnant and I was afraid that I was gonna be reported. I, I, I don't know what the, what, how, how they handle it. You know, people were afraid of period apps for God's sakes, putting down that they were missing periods.

1 (49m 58s):
She left Texas for months. The contract named Katie told us that the biggest after effect of her abortion and the new laws said it led to a lot of awkward conversations with family and friends. Cuz she didn't wanna tell everybody about her abortion. She wanted to be one of the millions of people who've had abortions and were able to put it away, move on, not think about it again. This was not the year for that. Abortion was constantly in the news. People were talking about it all the time. Time's roommate talked about how annoying the anti-abortion protestors were in the quad. Katie wanted to agree, but without disclosing too much about her own

7 (50m 36s):
Abortion. And I told her that I had a friend that had to go to Louisiana and Washington and all this stuff because of Roe v. Wade got overturned. And if Texas didn't have all these laws, like it would've been so much easier on her. But she had to wait so long just because of Roe v. Wade

1 (50m 55s):
Ashley new laws dominated a lot of her last year. She was in the unusual situation that under the abortion ban, she left the state to get an abortion and then months later she discovered she was pregnant again. Everything about how she felt about this new pregnancy was shaped by that first post row abortion. She'd had her mom watch her three kids when she went outta state, but lied to her about where she was going and what she was doing. And she turned to an abortion fund to help pay for it. Last time around, now, pregnant again and thinking about a second abortion,

5 (51m 29s):
I felt selfish. I felt like I was taking, ooh, I felt like I was taking the fund resources away from the 17 year old who needed it way more than me. I just felt horribly selfish and I didn't feel like it was a situation that I could like put myself and my whole family through again. I can't travel another 1800 miles and lie to my family and my kids about where mommy is when I have a spot in my van and we have a happy home and we have space and love. So I basically, I just didn't, I didn't feel like I could do it again and still feel good about it.

1 (52m 11s):
So she was keeping the pregnancy, even though her reasons for the first abortion still stood. She still had three kids on Medicaid. Her husband still didn't make enough money and she still did not want to be pregnant.

5 (52m 22s):
Then it made me start to realize like how many mothers of multiple children have to just pile another kid in there when they really didn't want to. Sometimes it's people that already have a minivan and have the space and have the love, which makes us feel even worse. But just because we have the space and we have the love doesn't mean we wanted to do that.

6 (52m 50s):
Which

1 (52m 51s):
Brings us to the most consequential result of the new laws. The first group of post row babies. Babies who never would've been born. The Supreme Court had not acted, are now coming into the world. One of those babies is Taylors. You heard Taylor earlier, the Reddit nerd in Atlanta who flew to Florida Foreign an abortion, but in the end didn't go to her appointment. Caroline has been tracking what's happened since then, and that's where we're going. Today's show.

8 (53m 20s):
By the time Taylor entered her third trimester, she was very alone. It happened week by week. When she was 13 weeks pregnant, coming home to Atlanta, Taylor's mom and sister wanted to celebrate. They asked, can we rub your belly? Can we throw you a baby shower? No. And no. Taylor was not interested.

3 (53m 42s):
I didn't want people to get me things I didn't want. I didn't want my family to feel responsible for something that I really didn't plan to do. If I was married or something, I'd have a baby shower, but this is not the same type of situation. So I didn't wanna ask anyone for anything.

8 (53m 58s):
It was almost like she had decided this was her thing. She got pregnant without planning to, so she was gonna deal with it all by herself. Taylor's family was offended, which made Taylor wanna pull away even more. By the time she was around 16 weeks pregnant, Taylor and her mom were no longer speaking. 18 weeks, Taylor and her boyfriend were fighting. She wanted him to move back to Atlanta. He wanted her to move to Florida. They broke up at 22 weeks. Taylor was trying to take control of the situation. She would buy all the right baby things, line them up in all the right spots in her house, a mini fridge by the bed to store breast milk, small stacks of diapers in every room so she could reach every little thing she needed when it was just her and the baby.

8 (54m 46s):
This way she thought she could do this alone. At 24 weeks, Taylor lost her job. She needed to pass a test to keep it, and with everything that was happening with the baby, she said she just couldn't focus 25 weeks, Taylor asked her ex, what role do you want with this baby? He said, I wanna be involved, but there's wanting to be involved and being able to, She took that to mean he's out. So as she entered her third trimester, Taylor started imagining herself alone in the delivery room.

8 (55m 30s):
She would uber herself to the hospital. She scheduled a C-section four days before the date. I caught Taylor running around getting ready. At that point, she said she didn't want anybody with her, especially her family.

16 (55m 44s):
Yeah, because I don't want everybody crowding me right after the birth and then I don't want everybody in my house at the same time. And you know, these are gonna be like my first moments learning how to be a mom. Yeah. And I don't wanna do that in front of anybody either.

8 (56m 3s):
On March 24th, Taylor gave birth to a baby boy. Exactly to the day. Nine months after the Supreme Court overturned Roe v. Wade,

17 (56m 13s):
It went so freaking well.

8 (56m 16s):
I called her when she got home from the hospital.

17 (56m 18s):
Let me tell you something, the weirdest part about it is how fast it was. It was like 10 minutes that they pulled this kid out of me. Like I felt pressured. And then the next thing you know, there's a fucking kid. It was crazy. I don't think there will ever be anything that will measure up to how surreal it felt to see a child come outta your stomach. It's just like, whoa. Like I created that. Like you're just in shock. Like, this is me, this is all me. I created this. And he came out with his eyes wide open. He was very aware. He's beautiful, he's quiet. He's not like a normal baby.

17 (56m 59s):
He's just like a super baby. Black, dark black hair. He's really perfect. If you wanted a kid, he'd be like the blueprint.

8 (57m 17s):
In the end, Taylor wasn't alone in the hospital. She asked her cousin to give her a ride to the hospital. The cousin stayed and took a video of the birth and Taylor says the cousin must have called other people in the family because the day she gave birth,

17 (57m 31s):
My father came same day. He also showed up the next day. My mom came the next day and she stayed the night every night after that. And then I also had family that just won't leave. They're like, I won't say or do anything, I just wanna be here. You know? So I've come down off of my high horse because it's such a huge thing. And I think I underestimated probably like how huge it was you gonna need. I had to really humble myself and be Okay. With people helping me, I get like two hours a night of sleep. So I just needed help. You know, his pacifier came out,

8 (58m 21s):
The baby wakes up while we're talking. Cole Anthony, he's six days old for months. I've been thinking about Taylor and wondering about two things. Would she let people in once she had the baby? And also this question,

19 (58m 47s):
If this, if these abortion laws were not in effect, like if Roe had not been overturned, do you think you would have this baby now?

17 (58m 57s):
No.

19 (59m 1s):
How does that make you feel?

17 (59m 3s):
Makes me feel bad. Makes me feel bad. But I know for a fact that I've spent so much money on this kid. I've had so much anguish. I've lost relationships, had to switch jobs. My body has changed, my mind has changed. I kind of underestimated what it would, what I would've to sacrifice to like totally go through with it. And I feel like although my baby is perfect, I just, just because I have my baby doesn't mean that I'm happy that well versus weight got changed because I'm never gonna, you know, my life is never gonna be the same.

17 (59m 48s):
Yeah. And I don't like that there's a piece of it that was impacted by a force that wasn't myself. You know? Like if I just decided to do it, have a baby. It'd be one thing. But to know that any part of it was challenged by some outside force, I mean, it's so messed up. And although right now everything's happy giggles, you know, newborn stage, like this is my life now. Like my whole life, not just 18 years. So this was just, I mean, things are really gonna change.

8 (1h 0m 36s):
There will be some moment, probably soon when we'll all just get used to the idea that people travel hundreds of miles and cross state lines to get abortions. That'll just seem normal. If it doesn't already. It'll seem normal that people have second trimester abortions at home. That some people will panic and not know what to do with the fetal tissue or feel too scared to seek medical attention at some point in the future. That fear will not be remarkable. And we will also get used to this notion that for many people, if you get pregnant in a state where abortion is banned and you do not want a baby, you may still wind up with one.

8 (1h 1m 18s):
We are rapidly moving into that future where all of this is normal, which means right now may be the last time we can truly feel how much has changed for the people who wanted abortions nine months ago. The gap between what was and what is is very clear.

1 (1h 1m 46s):
Caroline Kitchener, she's a reporter at the Washington Post

20 (1h 1m 52s):
You.

1 (1h 2m 32s):
Today's program is produced by Kja Walt, Valerie, kipp, and edited by Chesky. The people who put our program together today include Jane Ackerman, Elna Baker, Sean Cole, Michaele of ebida, Kornfeld, Cassie, Halle Micki, meek Mustafa, stone, Nelson, Katherine Rayo, Nadia Raymond, Ryan Rum, Alyssa Ship, Lil Sullivan, Chris. So Matt Tierney and Diane Wu, our managing editor, Sarah Abdin, our senior editors, David Kastenbaum. Our executive editor is Emmanuel Barry. Special thanks today to Peter Walston. Ken Na, Zaria Ali Block, the Nocturnists podcast. Kate Cole from the Northwest Abortion Access Fund, Elizabeth Nash and Robert Marshall. Original music for today's show by Christina Corton and Matt McKinley.

1 (1h 3m 12s):
This American Life is delivered to public radio stations by prx, the public radio exchange that is always Drew Programs co-founder, Mr. To Mall. You know, he remembers when the Lord speak unto him, which, you know, judging from what happened to Abraham and Noah, a lot does not always usually work out so great. Dory says, God was like, Hey,

14 (1h 3m 30s):
What you doing? And I was like, oh, dear God,

1 (1h 3m 33s):
I Merry glass. Back next week with more stories of this American life. Next week on the podcast with this American Live, Broadway's longest running show ever is finally closing this week by the people who were squeezed into its orchestra pit during the exact same thing, night after night, 35 years together,

21 (1h 4m 23s):
I was complaining about something, which I imagine was that it was really cold. And then someone else from the orchestra said, just so tired of the sound of your voice.

1 (1h 4m 34s):
That's next week on the podcast. Welcome Public Radio Station.