0 (0s):
It's time to reboot your credit card. With Apple Card, you work hard for your money, so you should be able to spend it on the things you actually want. With Apple Card, you can kiss fees goodbye. There aren't and never will be any annual foreign transaction late or over the limit fees, not even hidden ones. Apply now on the wallet app on iPhone and start using it right away. Subject to credit approval. Later missed payments will result in additional interest accumulating toward your balance Variable APRs for Apple card range from 15.49% to 26.49% based on credit worthiness rates as of March 1st, 2023.

1 (35s):
Okay. Before you can understand how Bob's sister became the talk of the third grade and the big day that that led to that, people still remember, I need to explain first that Bob's sister is a drawing. The teacher in this third grade class, Mr. Alow spotted it one day while teaching math. He saw one of the students, Antonio, working on a picture. I went over to him and said, puts the picture away. It probably did that two or three times. And then the fourth time I went over and I just took the picture and yeah, and said, pay attention. It's math class. And I put it on my desk. He came up right before recess and is like, can I have my picture back? And I was like, what is this picture of anyways? And he said, it's Bob's sister and I, and I'm like, who's Bob's sister?

1 (1m 16s):
Turns out Bob's sister is a minion on which I don't even think Bob's sister exists in the minion world. You're saying, you're saying the Minion's like from from the movie Despicable me. Yes, exactly. Yeah. And he just invented like a sister character for Bob. Yeah. Apparently Mr. Aba taped the drawing to the bookshelf behind his desk near a photo of a wolf that was already there cuz it was clear of Antonio kept the drawing. It would continue to be a distraction to him. And a couple of his friends who at that point were the only ones in class who really cared about Bob's sister. And I was like, don't worry, she's not going anywhere. She'll be right here. Anytime you wanna see her, she'll be behind me. Because the kids were into the picture of Bob's sister.

1 (1m 55s):
Yeah. No, I didn't really quite understand why. I never investigated why this was, the picture was such a big deal. But yeah, they would talk about, they would go up and look at it and yeah, it was a thing. Why were you guys so excited about Bob's sister, do you think?

2 (2m 10s):
I think it's because it was like another distraction in class that people could talk about.

1 (2m 16s):
Straightforward enough. This is Dylan, one of Antonio's friends. It was into Bob's sister from the start. Describe the drawing.

2 (2m 24s):
It was just like an octopus and then it had two eyes and then tentacles coming out of it.

1 (2m 31s):
I think my Bob's sister was an octopus.

2 (2m 34s):
Bob's sister was an octopus.

1 (2m 36s):
But Bob's a minion.

2 (2m 39s):
Well, it, it didn't really have anything to do with that.

1 (2m 42s):
And was he referring to the minion bob, or am I just

2 (2m 45s):
No, no, she was not.

1 (2m 47s):
I see. Was it a good drawing?

2 (2m 50s):
It was like an eight year old's. Okay. Drawing. Like it wasn't amazing, but it was like, you knew what it was.

1 (3m 0s):
This whole question, is it an octopus? Is it a minion? I asked Antonio, who drew Bob's sister about that. He tended to see Bob's sister as a Pac-Man ghost with big eyes. But he said, and I thought it was surprisingly mature for somebody in elementary school. He thought part of the appeal of Bob's sister was that it was open to interpretation.

2 (3m 20s):
I, I really don't know what it is. It's, it's a thing. I don't know what it, it, it's, it's lots of different things. You could think of it as a minion that looks weird. You could think of it as fly guy with no legs. You could think of it as Pacman goats with big guys. If Bob's sister was different to everybody, we never went with one of them. We just like, we didn't say anything, anyone could believe what the pun.

1 (3m 41s):
But the thing was key to Bob's sister was Bob's sister wasn't actually anyone's sister.

2 (3m 47s):
His name was just Bob's sister. No space.

1 (3m 49s):
That's really funny.

2 (3m 51s):
And we didn't come up with a gender either.

1 (3m 53s):
So Bob's sister, gender unspecified, lived on the bookshelf near the photo of a wolf until one week when Mr. Aba went on vacation and the kids had a substitute. When Mr. Aba came back, Bob's sister was gone, banished, disappeared, and was all the kids wanted to talk about. This is the point where everybody in class gets very, very interested in Bob's sister. There's kind of all this speculation about like what happened to Bob's sister? Was she stolen? Was she murdered? Did she die? And so I go and you know, I look a little bit, I looked under the desk, I looked behind the bookshelf and just the substitute I did actually, he had no idea what I was talking about.

1 (4m 41s):
Which was good enough for me. A really for me that makes him suspect. Number one. Interesting. There's your guy. Do you not watch any crime drama at all?

3 (4m 58s):
There

1 (4m 58s):
Are all kinds of theories about what happened to Bob's sister Antonio. And Dylan said it was really fun to talk about various abductors, including animals from an alternate universe. But Dylan says the prime suspect for his classmates. That other picture on the bookshelf,

2 (5m 12s):
They just decided that the wolf ate it because it was like, it was like right like above the wolf.

1 (5m 18s):
Like the wolf was jealous or something.

2 (5m 20s):
They didn't really know why. They just, that's what, that's what they said.

1 (5m 24s):
Who said that?

2 (5m 26s):
Basically everybody.

1 (5m 28s):
I mean, he is a wolf.

2 (5m 30s):
Yeah.

1 (5m 31s):
The chatter about Bob's sister does not go away, which is funny. But also, you know, Mr. ABLs got a curriculum to get through and I'm kind of vaguely annoyed because you know, there's a lot going on in a school day and I don't have much time to think about a picture of Bob's sister, but they're kind of pestering me about it. And then one other student, Dylan actually pipes in and says, can we have a funeral for Bob's sister? And I'm like, what are you talking about? And and they're like, well, she died. Something happened. And I'm like, a funeral for Bob's sister picture. And I say, yes, Parker, just to get them to stop talking about Bob's sister.

1 (6m 15s):
But also this is the kind of teacher he is. He says, sometimes it's smart to take some detours, follow things where they bleed. And they're like, when I'm like, I don't know when. Like, I don't know when this funeral's gonna happen. And they're like, when when's it gonna happen? When's it gonna happen? We are gonna have a funeral for Rob's sister. And so then finally I'm like, after the recess on Friday, That was Monday. Rest of the week goes pretty normally. Mr. Woodlouse sort of hoped that they would forget about the funeral by the end of the week, but no way. They're murmuring about it, preparing for it, which he has no part of the eight year olds are the ones organizing this and thinking it through.

1 (6m 58s):
Finally Friday arrives the big day, the day of the funeral, kids come back into the room from recess. They're pretty giddy. I'm pretty excited. So finally I'm like, okay, game on. Let's go funeral. I have no idea what what is about to transpire. All of a sudden, boom, the tables kind of move out of the way. The leader of the funeral comes up with the stool. Two other students bring two tables and grab the flowers. Apparently a bunch of girls had been making posters. They write Bob's sister's funeral on the board, Dylan's leader of the funeral. And he prepared a eulogy started his friend Theo Don't gets in front of the class holding a microphone.

1 (7m 42s):
Mr. Abl keeps in the room. The rest of the class is totally on the edge of their seats, just waiting for this kid to, to start the funeral. Like paying more attention to him than they ever pay to me. They're just like ready for it. He starts out kind of ad-libbing about welcoming everyone, thanking everyone for coming to celebrate the life of Bob's sister. Now how did you know what to say in a eulogy?

2 (8m 12s):
We didn't. We just said like some things that sounded about right, like something that, like that you might say at a funeral that might make someone cry.

1 (8m 22s):
Do you have your eulogy there?

2 (8m 24s):
Yeah, take it out.

1 (8m 26s):
Could you read it?

2 (8m 27s):
Okay, one sec. And then it sort of, mine also says sort of back and forth. She and he, so cuz I didn't really know Bob's sister was a great person. People thought that Bob was just a drying on a piece of paper. But I knew he was anything but that. But she is still in here. She made me think I could do things in school if she was here today. She would say keep on trying.

1 (8m 57s):
That's really nice. It sounds like you were trying to be sort of inspiring.

2 (9m 1s):
Yeah.

1 (9m 3s):
Had you seen a eulogy in a movie or something that, that you knew to do? Nope. Never. Whoa. The other eulogy that Theo wrote was also really good. I just wanna say something about the special person here. Bob's sister actually was such a good friend to all the potatoes and especially Mr. Potatohead. Potatoes were another fascination in Mr. ALA's class that year. What an honor it was to have her with us. God bless her. And then from the back of the room, Mr. A, here's a boy crying, I would say almost wailing, but it was like a real cry. And at first I'm thinking, oh my God, now they're just turning this into a joke. And then I realize that he's actually seriously crying.

1 (9m 46s):
Like, this is not a joke. Cry. And I walk back, I walk back there and everyone kind of turns back. Everyone's looking at both of us. And so I ask him, I'm like, what's wrong? What's going on? How, why, why are you crying? And he's like, it's because Bob's sister died. And I was like, it's not about anything else, maybe. And he's like, no, it's Bob's sisters died. And it's just so sad. Mr. Bl thinks maybe it was really about his dog. The dog that boy had grown up with had died just two weeks before his mom had sent an email to let him know.

1 (10m 28s):
But Mr. Bls, really not sure it ate, you're plenty old enough to catch a glimpse of what death means. And then they look up and then the whole kind of feel of the classroom has changed. It's gone from kind of giddy excitement. This is a fun thing to half the class is nervously laughing and the other half looks like they're on the verge of tears. Like there's about three girls that are like kind of really sad. And I was like, oh no, what have I created? Like this was, this was reaching an emotional level that I actually had never experienced before. And I'd been teaching for about 15 years and I had never felt kind of this, not that it was getting out of control, but it was, it was leading to something that I didn't know how it was gonna end, honestly.

1 (11m 16s):
Like, I don't know what's gonna happen next. Like if three other kids start crying, I don't know how to handle this situation. Right. Like I, they never experienced kind of that in a classroom. It's so interesting. It's, it's a, it's a, it's like, it's like they were playing around with, I don't know, like with a <unk> board and joking around and suddenly they accidentally summoned a demonn into the room. Yeah, in a way. And for me that I was, I was right there on the Ouija board with them. And, and so this monsters in the room, you've unleashed this like really like kind of a primal force. Like this grief, right? This, yeah. Grief, death. And I mean one of the really neat things about third grade is it's, I mean there's a saying you they stop learning to read and are reading to learn.

1 (12m 8s):
So it's like the, it's an age where their world gets a lot bigger. They kind of are experiencing real things. And I think a funeral is one of those things. Like they probably all heard of a funeral, they read them in books, but most of them probably hadn't been to one and didn't know what that felt like. And Mr. Olow felt responsible to help them through this new experience. Like he had lots of others that year. So he took control of the room back from the kids and addressed them all. I was like, well, funerals are kind of serious. Sometimes when you go to a funeral, it make, it's very sad because you're missing the person that's moved on. And sometimes it reminds you of other people who have moved on and it's important to remember those people and it's important to be sad.

1 (12m 57s):
And this is the end of the funeral, Which worked. Everybody snapped out of it. The demon left the room. Next was free time, which they all enjoy and everything was fine. But at the end of the school year when the class stood in a circle and each kid named something that they remembered and liked from third grade, a couple of the kids said, Bob's sister's funeral, here's a moment for Mr. Aba too. Sometimes you know, you're joking around and it's all light and fun and trying something you've never done before. And some bigger subterranean force gets unleashed. That's what our show's gonna be about today. Those moments when you get a glimpse of all that feeling that's there down below, hidden from sight from WBEZ Chicago, it's this American life.

1 (13m 44s):
I'm arrow glass, stay with us. Act one. Music of the night after night, after night, after night,

5 (13m 57s):
After night, after night, after night, after night, after night, after night, after night.

1 (14m 2s):
So when you go to a big theater, you see all the people who are on stage, they're brightly lit, they're visible to everybody. They're literally there to be seen. But then just below them, down in front, there's the orchestra pit. And it seems straightforward enough what happens in there. Musicians play their instruments, but other things go on in there. All kinds of interactions and feelings that usually we don't get much of a picture of. You know, that old saying hell is other people. It actually comes from the theater, comes from play. No exit. That play was not written by somebody who sits in the orchestra pit. But Jake Hasian Kang is this story about how many musicians and theatrical orchestras might understand the sentiment.

1 (14m 42s):
Reverse broadcast this story back in 2020. We are bringing it back today with an update. Here's Jay.

6 (14m 49s):
Nick Jimmo moved to New York in 2000 thousand six to try to make it as a musician. He had just finished up college and had all these dreams of playing the trumpet for a living, but it was a struggle. There just aren't many jobs for trumpet players anymore. So he mostly waited by the phone for gigs, Korean megachurch services, experimental plays in the occasional substitute job with Mary Poppins on Broadway. And then a spot opened up at his favorite show.

7 (15m 16s):
This might be tmi, but I remember I was in my apartment, I was on the toilet and I got a phone call and I didn't recognize the number and I listened to the voicemail saying, hi this Kristen. And freaked out.

6 (15m 35s):
This was one of the conductors for Phantom of the Opera. She offered him a job playing shows six days a week and twice on Thursdays and Saturdays.

7 (15m 43s):
I'm not sure I'd probably even let her finish her sentence, you know? Yes. I'm very interested, very interested and available. This was the life-changing really.

6 (15m 51s):
Did you feel like you had like won the lottery?

7 (15m 54s):
Oh yes. Actually. I remember the next day I had to go grocery shopping and I remember, I remember buying coconut water. I don't know why that was like my treat, cuz I always wanted to buy coconut water, but it was always like too much of a, I was like, you know what this is, I just don't need to spend. And I remember buying coconut water and feeling like such a badass. Yeah. And I just felt like I can buy anything here.

6 (16m 16s):
It wasn't just a steady income. Nick was excited about Phantom of the Opera was a show Nick had loved since he was 11 years old. He had just started playing the trumpet and would lay on his living room floor listening to the music of the night. You know, it slowly, gently night unfurls it splendor. That call changed his life. He had finally arrived Phantom on Broadway. On his first day, Nick entered the Majestic Theater on 46th and eighth Avenue. He walked through a back alley, past a giant tub of dry ice, down a flight of stairs into a locker room where he changed into all black.

6 (16m 56s):
He then headed into the pit to play the music he had loved as a child. He had his own seat there now in a music stand. So he played the first show. Next day he went back and played it again. And then again, his brain started to adjust to playing the same show eight times a week. And then he started to notice it wasn't just the music that repeated itself.

7 (17m 18s):
You know, I'm seeing the same actors at the exact same time and the same musicians at the exact same time and seeing the same people in the bathroom at the exact same time. Every, every time one of the dancers comes through to put her wig on, she says to one of the other dancers, good job, Erica. Like every single day, it's very Groundhog Day.

6 (17m 37s):
At first, this was funny, almost charming. Nick was 30 and the youngest person in the pit, not by a few years, but by a few decades, he'd never been in a situation like this where everyone seemed so locked into routine. His colleagues would sit down in their chairs at the exact same minute every day. There was a cellist who would say marvelous every time Nick asked him how he was doing. There was the first horn player who would pull out a stopwatch every single night to time. How long the second horn player held a note in one of the songs. Some days it would be 17 seconds. Other days, 16.2.

7 (18m 13s):
You, you definitely start to notice people are talking about each other and complaining about, you know, the same people are late every single week. You know, if you bump into a standby accident, you'll get a, like a,

3 (18m 26s):
What

7 (18m 27s):
The fuck you doing? Kind of look like. Take a deep breath. You know? Like

8 (18m 40s):
What, what is it like being the, the, the youngest guy there? The young guy?

3 (18m 45s):
Ah,

7 (18m 45s):
Basically I'm not as Jaden as the rest of them. You know, if I say anything that's not like, you know, sucks to be here, you're like, nah, you haven't been here logging off. You're still new, you're still new. You know, people kind of walk in there like, okay, how can I do this again? And some of it's just in their body language, the way they walk in the door, like they're kind of trudging in, you know? Or when someone says, do I have to do this tonight?

6 (19m 10s):
Fanm of the opera opened on Broadway in January, 1988. It was an instant hit.

9 (19m 16s):
Everyone who has seen this musical comes away and chanted

10 (19m 20s):
The show is virtually guaranteed to run well into the next decade.

6 (19m 24s):
It did. And then another decade and another, the musicians of the pit signed contracts with the provision, which guaranteed their jobs until the show shut down. They expected two, maybe three years, but the show kept going as three years turned into five years, which then turned into 32. That's over 13,000 performances. Phantom is now the longest running show in the history of Broadway.

11 (19m 53s):
There's almost a feeling, I think, of nausea that you have to do it again and you have to do it again.

6 (20m 0s):
That's Melanie Feld, an obos who's been in the pit for 28 years now.

11 (20m 5s):
I don't know how to describe it. A physical sensation that I get a literally that I'm jumping outta my skin. Like my, it's a leg thing. Okay. I can't stand my skin. I'm going crazy. Oh no, that thing is happening.

6 (20m 17s):
I first heard about the pit of Phantom through a friend whose wife had recently subbed in the violin section. She described what she had seen as a horror show, like waiting for Guffman, but 30 hard years down the line. I couldn't quite get it out of my head.

12 (20m 31s):
It's one of the first things people ask. How can you possibly stay sane and play the same music every night?

6 (20m 37s):
Pete Wright has been playing phantom since opening night. He's the french horn player who times the notes on a stopwatch every night.

12 (20m 44s):
No, there is something in that where you, I would look at the music sometimes and I, it would just look, literally look like shapes. I would just see like, like circles and lines and dots and I would have no idea. I don't even know what page I was on.

6 (21m 1s):
It's like a disassociative feeling almost like,

12 (21m 4s):
It's like hearing yourself speak and you don't, and you aren't sure it's English.

6 (21m 9s):
Well that is, I don't think that's ever happened to me, Pete.

12 (21m 15s):
And then the funny thing is, you see someone else do it and you immediately know what's going on with them.

6 (21m 20s):
What, what does their face look like?

12 (21m 22s):
Oh, they're just like, they're just, it's as if they don't even know where they are. They're like waking up in another room. It's like, what happened? Where am I? You know? What day is it? What week is it?

6 (21m 39s):
When I started talking to the pit musicians a couple years ago, I wanted to know how they found meaning in the mundane and inevitable repetitions of life. In lots of jobs. People do the same thing every day, but nothing quite like this. You're hearing the exact same lines from the stage, playing the exact same notes for the same songs. Even the guy sitting next to you breathes in the exact same rhythm every day. The phantom kisses, Christine, for the first time in the same chandelier comes crashing down in the same spot on the stage. I assume the orchestra members were like Zana archers who pulled back the same bow with the same motion until they die. I talked to a trumpet player named Lowell Hershey.

6 (22m 21s):
Lowell's been at the show since day one. And everyone says he's the sanest person in the pit.

13 (22m 26s):
And it kind of drives you nuts for the first few weeks. And then after that your mind deals with it and just flushes it out. So when you're not there, you don't think about

6 (22m 37s):
It. Do you know the words to the songs that you're playing?

13 (22m 42s):
No, not, not entirely.

6 (22m 44s):
Where in the world?

13 (22m 46s):
At me fondly, whatever. I mean, I remember one, one time after the show had been running for a while, somebody asked me to play a little bit of a tune from the show and I couldn't even do it. I couldn't even think of one. I had submerged so much like your, your

6 (23m 4s):
Brain has like, basically just rejected being cognizant that the music is going on.

13 (23m 11s):
I think that's typical of people who do shows. What

6 (23m 13s):
Do you think the right type of personality is that can handle this job?

13 (23m 18s):
I'm descended from a long line of surfs and peons. You know, people who are used to laboring in the fields for, for hardly any money and, and are relatively happy with that.

6 (23m 30s):
The phantom players aren't exactly surfs, they're well paid. They play a beloved show and they get to play in small orchestras on the side. But these are highly trained musicians who went to the fanciest music schools in the world. Andrew Lloyd Weber wanted the best, best of the best for phantom, which means a pit will always sound good though. It also creates some creative and spiritual problems for the players who have to get through the score night after night after night.

14 (23m 56s):
I'm a violin operator.

6 (23m 59s):
Is that how you describe

14 (23m 60s):
That? That's that's how you describe it? Yeah, I'm, you know, it's, it's, it's very technical. I have, I have no emotional connection with it.

6 (24m 8s):
That's a violinist named Kurt Cobel. He's a composer. His dream was always to write scores for horror films. He's now been a fanm for 22 years. Long enough to see three people in his section die.

14 (24m 20s):
When I'm playing the show, nobody's interested in my creative input. I've often compared it to working in a hospice. You know, it's just, we just keep the show alive as long as we can.

6 (24m 43s):
So here they all are in this weird social experiment trapped together. For decades, 27 musicians crammed into this tiny space. A trumpet player told me it's like playing in a submarine. I've been down there and you can barely turn around without knocking into something in the pit. You notice everything, the way your neighbor blows out a spit valve, the way someone brags about their kids, the smell of someone's perfume. Every little annoyance, every perceived slight accumulates. One of my favorite stories, which would drive anyone who has ever played in a band crazy. There's this bassoon player who has sat next to the same clarinet player since 1988.

6 (25m 23s):
She's convinced he plays half a note flat on every note he's ever played. He denies this. The person I talked to the most in the pit was Melanie the Oboist. She's one of the rare people you meet who has no real filter.

11 (25m 38s):
So I was complaining about something, which I imagined was that it was really cold. It's always really cold. And then someone else from the orchestra said, I'm just so tired of the sound of your voice, you know, and I'm tired of the sound of my voice too. So I, I kind of sympathize with her. Then there was a violinist who got mad at me cuz I said, I used Roundup in my garden. She's like, and she wouldn't speak to me for like, I don't know, weeks.

6 (26m 6s):
During most of our talks, Melanie is making reads. It's an extraordinarily meticulous process. There's all sorts of medieval looking tools and tiny bits of wood everywhere.

11 (26m 16s):
Oh, both are the most optimistic people in the world because every time they make a read, they think that it might work. They usually don't. But anyway, this part I, oh no, I'm skipping the most important part. You need to pick your color of thread and it just makes all the difference. And I never know what color to pick, but this is the only fun that I have. So is that God awful noise.

6 (26m 42s):
Melanie studied at Julliard. She dreamed of being the principal Obos in the Metropolitan Opera, or the Phil Harmonic, but she kept bombing her auditions. Her nerves got the best of her every time she was up for a big seat. And then life and Bills intervened. Phantom in that way is a very good job in a field where there aren't a lot of good jobs anymore. They put Melanie's kids through college, paid her mortgage and provided security while the music industry collapsed around her. But at the end of 30 years, sitting just inches away from your coworkers, you lose all sense of proportion. Your enemies turn into monsters. For Melanie, the monster in the pit was always a trumpet player named Francis Bonnie.

6 (27m 26s):
Everything he did drove Melanie nuts from the black biking shorts he wore in the pit to always eating his dinner in the locker room with his back turn to her.

11 (27m 34s):
Francis was the miserable son of a bitch. And at a certain point he started wearing like, he put this black like shade on the side of his glasses and he's wearing those things cuz he doesn't wanna see me. Right? That's why he's wear, I, I really truly believe this.

6 (27m 49s):
I wanted to run this all by Francis. It just seems so unreasonable. Francis is the only person I had talked to who had actually escaped from the pit. He got in a truck and drove out to the middle of nowhere in Colorado. He says he's much happier now. You

15 (28m 3s):
Spoke with Melanie. Oh

6 (28m 5s):
Yeah, yeah. I understand that you two did not have the best relationship. One of the things that she told us was that, that you basically made an eye patch so that you wouldn't have to look at her. Is, is this a true story that she's telling

15 (28m 17s):
Us? I did do that at some point, but that wasn't just because of Melanie. She's taking it too personally. It was actually anybody that was on my right.

6 (28m 28s):
You told us for a long time that you sat in the locker room and that you would turn your back to everybody because you didn't wanna look

15 (28m 36s):
At them. Yeah, yeah. I was in the locker room. I came there, I ate my dinner, looked at the white wall, went in, played the show, and then left the theater. Left the premises as fast as I could and it worked beautifully.

6 (28m 50s):
Can you compare the relationships that you have with other relationships?

15 (28m 54s):
It's family. It's a spouse. You can't stand and putting up with people that you just don't want to hear their voice again. You sit there thousands and thousands and thousands and thousands of hours. This is like a quarter of a lifetime.

6 (29m 12s):
The musicians in the pit don't play the whole time, which means there are thousands of hours where they're not actually doing anything. And during those rests they read books by thrillers and mysteries and do the crossword with their neighbors. The trumpet player has taught himself three languages. Another musician ran a wood shop business on his laptop during the show. And socially it's a bit like middle school. They're the loners, the jocks and the french horns. They're like the boys in the back of the bus. They bring in fart machines and run the same practical jokes over and over. Sometimes they even mess with the audience. The front row is right up against the pet, so close at their feet, sometimes dangle next to the musician's heads.

6 (29m 56s):
Occasionally one of the french horn players would take out a bottle of whiteout and write little messages on the souls of the audience's shoes.

11 (30m 3s):
Those guys, they're sitting right behind me. They're always chattering and laughing. I being me, if I play badly, I think, oh God, they're saying how terrible I am. Oh God, I don't wanna humiliate myself

6 (30m 17s):
This more than anything Melanie told me is what makes her wanna sound good every night. She's worried the French horn guys will make fun of her.

11 (30m 26s):
I'm not playing for the audience cuz the audience doesn't know. And so I'm playing for those French horn players. I do wanna say one of the compliments I've gotten over the years is how do you still play so well when you've just been doing Phantom for all those years? And see, it's a choice that I've made. My choice is to play this music like it's any other music that I play and, and make it beautiful.

6 (30m 49s):
Can you just play something from a

11 (30m 50s):
Phantom? Well, I can play the really hard one and if it's really bad though, I beg you not to.

6 (31m 4s):
During the pandemic, like the rest of Broadway, Phantom Shut Down the Unstoppable Show was put on pause for a year and a half. I checked in with Melanie during that break. She wasn't doing very well. She wasn't getting paid by the show and she missed Phantom. This was surprising to me. Melanie and all the other musicians had told me about their fantasies of finally leaving the show. And I had believed them, but now that it actually happened, she missed a routine.

11 (31m 35s):
You know, Phantom, I missed the, the comrade ship, you know, the repetition of the silly jokes and watching everyone eat, and I don't know the routine. I kind of like routine in my life.

6 (31m 48s):
This of course is the opposite of what she'd said in the past before Covid

11 (31m 52s):
It, it was always easy to complain that it was boring and to complain about driving into the city and wasting all that time in the car and, you know, playing the same music and going home again. And, and I just thought, I knew I was lucky back then, but it becomes very real now. I mean, what can I say now? I really know what it's like not having this job. You know, I, it's just so much fun to complain about things that don't matter. Oh, the women in the bathroom, they're just always talking about their expensive hair and makeup and I, I missed the women in the bathroom and I, yeah, I'd be happy to complain about that again

6 (32m 43s):
Before the pandemic. Every time I talked to Melanie, I would ask how she was doing. Her answer always depended on parking. It's hard to park in midtown Manhattan. A good parking spot was a good day, but bad parking spot was a bad day. This is how she made sense of her life. I think about this all the time. Most of our lives are spent finding parking for the job we don't wanna do. Melanie's not alone in that. And after any number of years those routines accumulate and that's more or less your life. Of all the people I talked to in the pit, one musician dealt with a mundane and inevitable repetition of life in a way that really stuck with me for the past two decades in the pit, Kurt, the musician who described himself as a violin operator, has been dreaming up the most elaborate and metaphorically perfect coping mechanism.

6 (33m 41s):
It's a band made up entirely of OT automatons. I met these robot musicians in a warehouse in Yonkers.

14 (33m 50s):
The Pam band.

6 (33m 51s):
The Pam band stands for partially artificial musicians. Kurtz o Automatons are made up of scraps of metal and string all wired up to a soundboard that Kurt can program to create whatever sounds he wants. There's Magnus, an electro cord organ Krieg, the bass guitar, and then there's Rosie the Thein.

14 (34m 11s):
This is Jack a solid body electric violin using the exoskeleton design. This is what helps alleviate the boredom of the redundancy of Phantom. Cuz I'm constantly thinking about this project and how I can improve the automation and the kind of music that I would like to create.

6 (34m 40s):
Why did you decide to do this?

14 (34m 45s):
If I ever see a therapist, maybe they will help me understand this.

6 (34m 48s):
Oh no, pretend I'm a therapist. Like was there part of it where you're like, man, I am playing in this orchestra. I'm not, you know, it's not the expressiveness that I want. I also kind of feel like an automaton, you know, and maybe I'll just make an OT matan as a a violinist.

14 (35m 5s):
Yeah, I mean I can, I can see exploring that. Am I looking for some kind of soul healing from this dehumanization of being in a violent section possible?

6 (35m 25s):
I asked Kurt if the pan band could play the Music of the Night, or all I ask of you or any of the phantom classics. He wasn't into that at all. This band was not designed to play Andrew Lloyd Weber, but something inside him just couldn't get away from Phantom of the Opera. Back when he was sitting in the pet, he'd composed just in his head both the prequel and the sequel to Phantom Both, which involve Indiana Jones type characters. And years ago he got a copy of the 1925 silent film version of Phantom and wrote an entire score. He wanted to play it for me. He turned out the lights in the warehouse and projected the film onto the wall.

6 (36m 6s):
The Pan band started to play the score features him Kurt as the solo violinist in the star of the show. The Otto Batons all play the same thing, but Kurt always improvises, none of his shows are ever the same.

1 (36m 32s):
J Caspian Kang, he's a staff writer for the New Yorker and Callos to the podcast, time to Say Goodbye. His story was produced by Nicki Meek. So we first broadcast that story three years ago, and now the decades of repetition in the Phantom of the Opera pit are finally coming to an end. After 35 years, the longest running show on Broadway history is closing this week. Curious how the musicians in the pit were taking the news. Jay caught up with Melanie, the OBO player when she just had four shows left to play. Jay asked about the moment when everybody who works in the show heard definitively doing a big zoom meeting actually, that the show was finally closing.

6 (37m 15s):
What was your first thought? Because I remember that we had talked about it and you sort of, you and, and Lowell and Pete had all sort of fantasized about, because I asked you about this a lot. Just like, what, what are you gonna ha like when you leave? Like, how's it gonna feel? Right? And so like, how did it actually feel like, cuz you finally got confirmation that, okay, this is actually gonna end.

11 (37m 37s):
So the first thing you have that the dropping of your gut into the cellar kind of feeling of shock, just complete shock. Like the bottom is falling out of my world kind of feeling. I was upset. So what I do, I said, I don't wanna be sad, so I'll be angry. Let's choose anger. And I said, I'm gonna focus on all the things I hate and that way I won't be sad. And so that's what I did

6 (38m 3s):
So well. Did did it work? Like did it work to

11 (38m 5s):
Yeah, I was so

6 (38m 6s):
Successful to just focus on everything you hate instead of, you know, whatever feelings of sadness or regret or even, you know, fear that might have popped

11 (38m 15s):
Up. No, this is at the beginning. Okay, so I was so good, right? I was so successful. Now that it's imminent, I do feel different. So now it's much more of a rollercoaster up and down. Right now there's all kinds of exciting activities going on and then you can sort of forget that it's closing. I am certainly sad about it. It's an entire way of life. I I can't even really imagine knowing it will never be back. But most of those people I'm never gonna see again

6 (38m 52s):
Are people being nicer to one another in

11 (38m 55s):
The pit. Thank you for asking. People are being so nice. I'm trying to be quieter about things that annoy me, but fewer things are annoying me and it's all very festive and fun. We had a really fun photo up on Friday. We, they had a full company photo call, so I really enjoyed it because everybody was up on stage. They all gave us a poster and everyone's getting their posters signed, like your high school yearbook. And

6 (39m 20s):
You know, when I first interviewed you several years ago, one of the things that you told me that, you know, made me laugh a lot was that you, after playing 20 something years at the time of the show, had never actually seen the show. Right? And that sort of blew my mind because I was like, hi you every night, you know, like, like you've never actually seen the show.

11 (39m 40s):
Yeah. So I realized that I really wanted to see the show and I asked the management and they set me up at the soundboard and it was wonderful. This is just last week, I think. And what what amazed me was the pageantry of it, the beauty of it. I had no idea. You see them bringing in all the ice backstage outside of the stage door every day. So there's a giant ice container with the dry ice and then they carry it in and then, and then we used to complain about the, the smoke, but I never knew what the smoke did. And it's, so it creates this incredible atmosphere. And then there's all these lights, like we see the canola under the stage, but they're not lit under the stage.

11 (40m 23s):
And so I got to see them on the stage and I got to see the Phantom and Christine at the end of, I, I don't know which number it was, but they just disappear. I mean, it's a trap door, but have just disappearing and I feel like a little kid in a way just awestruck by all these things that other people have seen so many times.

1 (40m 53s):
11 people who were gonna be in the pit closing night and musicians who were there on opening night back in 1988, I was able to reach Joel Hershey, who, as Jay pointed out in the story, everybody calls the sanest person in the pit. Like Melanie Joel has other gigs lined up for after fandom closes here and there. Nothing big, nothing too challenging. Neither of them imagines playing for another Broadway show. Either is a sub or is a regular player. Whoa. I have to say was very chill about the closing.

13 (41m 25s):
You know, I can't say that I didn't enjoy going to work. I, I did. It's fun for me to do that and so I will miss that. But you know, I, I think I can find other things that will interest me. I, I don't feel like I'll be bored.

1 (41m 40s):
How old were you on the first opening night?

13 (41m 43s):
I was 40.

1 (41m 45s):
Can I ask you to, to go back and imagine for a second 40 year old you on the opening night of Phantom, if you could somehow have said to him, you'll be here for 35 years and you'll be here on closing night of this show, what would that 40 year old have said?

13 (42m 4s):
Well, I would've been really happy to have heard that because at, at the time Phantom Open, I had a 11 and a 13 year old. I had two kids and the college was coming up. And if you just told me that Phantom was gonna go more than just a few years and go 35, I would've been thrilled because that would've meant that I would have some security. So yeah, I would've been very happy to have that information

1 (42m 40s):
Coming up. A mom goes underground, goes undercover to get an urgent message to her daughter. That's in a minute from Chicago Public Radio. When our program continues,

16 (42m 52s):
Now that the Virginia Lottery has new games every Tuesday, the lottery has turned Tuesday into something worth celebrating. Call it Tuesday Play Day or Wahoos Day Tuesday, or even Hump Day Eve. You can look forward to new scratchers online games or print and play. For more information, visit va lottery.com/tuesday or stop by your local lottery retailer to see what's new this week.

17 (43m 18s):
I'm Kim Barker, host of the Coldest case in Laramie, a show from Serial Productions in the New York Times in 1985, I was a high school sophomore in Laramie, Wyoming, when a woman was brutally murdered there, the crime was never solved. Then a few years back, the police arrested someone for the murder. A former Laramie cop, his D was found at the crime scene, but then prosecutors dropped the charges. So I went back to Laramie to try to find answers. The coldest case in Laramie. Listen wherever you get your podcast,

1 (43m 49s):
It's this American guy from I class. Today's program, what Lies Beneath Stories of things and people usually hidden from View coming to the Surface, we've arrived at Act Tour of our program, act two, how I Met my mother. So in some families what's buried deep below are the true feelings people have about one another. There's so many people out there who have trouble saying directly what they really feel. One of the producers here at our show, Elna Baker, comes from a long line of passive aggressive communicators. By the way, they know this, they own it. When her grandmother wanted to get a message across a message like Don't leave change lying around. One time she put an article on the fridge saying Toddler chokes on Penny.

1 (44m 32s):
And then just left it to everybody else to connect the dots. Elena's mother communicates in the same indirect way, which became a problem in the years after Elna left the church, Elmo's family's Mormon and her mom had some important things that she wanted to say to her. Here's Arizona.

0 (44m 49s):
This all started when I made a joke about me buying weed to my brother. Careful. He said, if mom were to hear that, she'd send an email to the whole family about how you're an addict. I laughed and then I was like, wait, what? That was way too specific. Did Mom send an email to the whole family about me being an addict? And he was like, nothing. Nevermind. Which could only mean one thing she did. It took several rounds of questioning before I got the whole story. The email he was referencing. My mom had sent it 10 years ago. At the time I was about to host a comedy show in New York where me and a bunch of performers would play drinking games on stage.

0 (45m 31s):
It was called The Drunk Show. The show is being promoted online. My mom, a devout Mormon, saw an article about it and freaked out. Mormons Don't Drink, it's against the religion. And what I learned from my brother years after the fact is that my mom was so worried that I was doing this show. She sent an email to my family, my extended family, uncles, cousins, and family friends who I grew up with, like the Mitchells, the Coxes, Heidi, my middle school drama teacher. Dear friends, it begins. I am writing because I am concerned about the direction Elmer's life is turned. She is spiraling downward fast.

0 (46m 11s):
My mom then explains to them that I'm doing this event called The Drunk Show then rights. I am very concerned in our family you are either an alcoholic or a Mormon, and I think she may be headed in the wrong direction. I don't know what I can do personally. She doesn't hear me. I'm gonna interject here that I didn't hear her because she never said anything to me about it. In the email, she inserts a link to the article about the Drunk Show and then reveals her Grand Master plan. She's been commenting on the article under fake names, warning me not to do the show. Can everyone else please make up fake accounts and also comment this way?

0 (46m 51s):
I'll cancel the show she ends. Thanks. Pray for us both please. When I read this email, I was mortified. I drank socially. I'm not an alcoholic, but since I'd never intercepted the email, I worried everyone who got it had thought this for years. I immediately clicked on the link to the article at the bottom of the page. There were four comments from four different people trolling me all clearly. My mother, her first fake character is Carol from the West Village who says, encouraging irresponsible drinking that could end in hospitalization of performers is an invitation to a lawsuit.

0 (47m 34s):
Don't be idiots. The three other comments escalate from there. Here's the weirdest part. She wrote all these comments while she was staying with me. She was in town the week of the Drunk Show. We slept in the same bed, but she didn't say a word to me about it as interventions go. It was the least successful one I've ever heard of or could imagine. No one else among the family or friends chimed in and I, the target of the intervention never knew it happened. I never heard of or read the comments online until my brother accidentally let it slip. Years later, since I found out about this, I've wondered why my mom chose to communicate this message to me the way she did.

0 (48m 17s):
But I've never asked her because I figured it would just lead to a fight and no answers. But we're much closer now than we were when I did the Drunk Show. Why not try to my surprise, she agreed to talk about it. But on these conditions, dad had to be there in case we needed mediation. I had to come home for Christmas in exchange. And most importantly, I could only do this story if she got to write the ending, which we'll get to later. Talk for a second.

18 (48m 47s):
Hi Alma, how are you?

0 (48m 49s):
Wow, mom. You guys sexy. Wow, mom,

18 (48m 53s):
I'm, I'm trying out a lower voice cuz I think my voice is too screechy.

0 (48m 57s):
Don't do that. Don't spend the whole interview not being yourself. We started at the beginning. How did my mother decide that anonymous comments online would be the best way to reach me? This comment, she said my sister Julia told her about the drunk show.

18 (49m 13s):
So I'm laying there on the couch. I'm at your apartment probably about five in the morning and I'm stewing over this. I can't sleep, haven't slept for hours. And then I just have this little epiphany. I can put this on here in somebody else's voice. I don't have to use my own voice. And then maybe she'll take it seriously. You just need to hear it from New Yorkers.

0 (49m 35s):
Why?

18 (49m 36s):
Come on El, you're from New York. You live in New York and you value their opinions

0 (49m 42s):
More than yours.

18 (49m 44s):
Oh, absolutely. Cuz I'm, you know this fuddy-duddy, old-fashioned Mormon lady that doesn't know anything. You know, I'm like from 1950 I'm like June Cleaver.

0 (49m 56s):
Are you saying that you are like that or that I think you think

18 (49m 59s):
I think about That's what I think. You think I am? Yeah.

0 (50m 1s):
Before things get too tense, my mom and I pull up the comments page together. Okay, so now let's look at these people. The first thing I learned was how fleshed out these people were. In my mom's mind. Okay. Like Carol from the West Village, who warned that irresponsible drinking could lead to lawsuits.

18 (50m 17s):
She's a lawyer cuz that's the way a lawyer would say things, isn't it?

0 (50m 22s):
Okay.

18 (50m 23s):
She's dealt with lawsuits that have been involved drunk drivers or something with alcohol is involved. Right?

0 (50m 33s):
To be clear, nowhere in the comments does it say Carol is a lawyer for each entry. There's just a name and location like Don from the Upper West Side.

18 (50m 43s):
Pretty ritzy area, right? Hmm.

0 (50m 47s):
Who is Don in your mind?

18 (50m 49s):
Don is a a comedian. Oh, okay. Who's older? He used to do kind of the old style comedy.

0 (50m 57s):
Again, reading the comments, you'd never know Don was a comedian.

18 (51m 2s):
Yeah. He's just disgusted with how comedy has evolved in the last 15 years or so.

0 (51m 9s):
What does Don think about me doing this show?

18 (51m 13s):
He says, comedy where you are laughing at the performers and not with the performers is not comedy. It is tragedy. Is this really what NYC comedy is reduced to? Are you really not cleverer than this?

0 (51m 29s):
Why did you think like Don saying this to me would, would reach me?

18 (51m 35s):
Well, you love comedians. I mean, it's all about the comedy for you. So of course it's, this is not gonna be funny. Then maybe we shouldn't do this.

0 (51m 47s):
The next comment comes from the East Village from a commenter named Please.

18 (51m 52s):
Okay. So I'm thinking this is a policeman

0 (51m 58s):
And his name is Please.

18 (51m 60s):
Yeah, officer, please.

0 (52m 2s):
It doesn't say, officer Mom, please what? Why is this policeman writing me? Why is he so offended by this show?

18 (52m 15s):
Well, he says 10 years after nine 11, and this is where New York is. Come on.

0 (52m 20s):
This show is on September 17th,

18 (52m 22s):
I think this week of all weeks. We should all be a little more sensitive and full of introspection.

0 (52m 29s):
Okay, can we just, I think we can both agree that you went, you went real big on this one.

18 (52m 39s):
I hit the nine 11 button.

0 (52m 41s):
Her last comment is a straight up Mormon talking point. Alcoholism and all other addictions take away freedom of choice. Seven minutes after she posted that, she sent the mass email. My mom said she went so hard because,

18 (52m 58s):
So I have two uncles who died of alcoholism poisoning. My uncle died at age 30. My other uncle came to my wedding completely drunk and ended up dead about two years later from alcoholism. Gary's grandfather died of alcoholism. So that's how I get there. It's not like it's a Mormon thing, it's an experience that has affected me. It affected my mother. She was just devastated over her brother and his alcoholism.

0 (53m 32s):
Stopping the drunk show meant stopping me from becoming one of these people. My mom says she saw the promo photo of me sipping a drink on the page, announcing the show and thought,

18 (53m 42s):
Has she lost her mind? She has relatives who've died of alcoholism. She's been taught since she was a little girl, to be careful around alcohol. Has she completely blocked out everything I've ever taught her?

0 (53m 60s):
Did you ever consider just calling me?

18 (54m 5s):
We've already been there. You don't hear me. You just don't hear me. It's just a joke. You have to hear it from somebody who you think is credible. Come on, admit it, Elna. You know, you would've just laughed. You would've called Kevin. You would've had a good laugh and you would've had the show anyway,

0 (54m 27s):
But you didn't

18 (54m 27s):
The thing. Come on, admit it. Wait, you know it. You know, you would've rolled your eyes at me,

0 (54m 34s):
But you didn't even try.

18 (54m 36s):
But Emma, just, just tell me what's the truth on your end?

0 (54m 44s):
Well, I don't think I, here's the thing. I, I think if, if you just told me not to do it, I would've, I would've done exactly what you're saying. But if we'd had a full conversation where we really talked like I, so for example, I didn't know until just now, until we've had this conversation, like, I didn't really know that much about your family history with drinking. You don't talk about these unpleasant things so that like when you're so against drinking, I, I think I did think it was just had to do with Mormonism and not that it had to do with like really painful things you witnessed in your life because you never told me about them.

18 (55m 26s):
I'm sure I have said this statement before in your life in our family, you are either a Mormon or an

0 (55m 37s):
Alcoholic.

18 (55m 38s):
Alcoholic. Yeah, yeah, yeah. You've heard that one before.

0 (55m 43s):
Yeah. I just didn't believe it. She'd said this to me all my life, but I was missing the context. I've never met any of these family members who drank. I don't remember her ever mentioning any of these stories. I saw my mother as sheltered. Almost all her friends are Mormon. I just thought she doesn't know what she's talking about, which was unfair. When I make a radio story, I listen to my interviews over and over again, and this time something unusual started to happen with each listen. My mother sounded less and less like my mother.

0 (56m 23s):
Like I stopped hearing her the way I usually do, rolling my eyes, getting defensive, and I actually started to hear what she had to say. This is the line that struck me the hardest.

18 (56m 34s):
Elma, we've already been there. You don't hear me.

0 (56m 40s):
She's right. And I can hear in her voice that this has been hurting her feelings for years and that's my fault. I see why she thinks it's hopeless to talk to me about drinking, about anything. I'm incredibly dismissive. That's my part in this and her part, she was totally upfront about that. She didn't wanna confront me about drinking because she has so much trouble with confrontation of any kind with anyone. Going back to when she was young.

18 (57m 9s):
I mean, as a little kid, I used to just admit fault to anything that happened in our family in order to get the confrontation to be over with.

0 (57m 21s):
I never understood before this conversation what that feels like for her. She panics, feels trapped, like she needs to run tightness in her chest, which is what makes this conversation so hard.

18 (57m 34s):
It's just what we're doing. Exactly what I hate to do.

0 (57m 37s):
What?

18 (57m 39s):
Talk about conflict.

0 (57m 43s):
So what's happening to you when we do it?

18 (57m 46s):
Well see, I'm twiddling my thumbs right? I'm feeling my neck turn to stone.

19 (57m 53s):
This cord, which is already coiled up, has been triple coiled for the headphones.

18 (58m 3s):
So yeah.

0 (58m 6s):
Oh, thank you for putting yourself in your most uncomfortable place.

18 (58m 13s):
Sure. You're welcome. Elna, anything for my daughter?

0 (58m 17s):
I knew what this meant from the tone of her voice. It was time to stop. This was the most direct conversation I've ever had with my mother and the longest real conversation we've ever had. She'd gone above and beyond and did something she did not enjoy for me. I could return the favor and call it a day. Well, folks, my ticket home for Christmas is booked. And now for the ending, my mother requested it comes down to three words. She was right, not about me spiraling downward fast, but about the Drunk Show. For the record, the drunk show was a disaster.

0 (58m 57s):
I was the one who organized the drinking games, but because I'd only recently left the church. I was brand new to drinking. And all the penalties in the games were things like take four shots of whiskey. Things went off the rails quickly, a performer threw a chair at an audience member. I drunk, outed my ex from the stage, and the call went so badly that I started crying in front of the audience. Ira, who was in the show got blackout drunk for the first time in his life, he said, and then threw up into a trash bag and someone ended up in the hospital. My mom knew none of those details of course, but big picture Carol from the West Village knew what she was talking about when she said, irresponsible drinking can lead to hospitalization.

0 (59m 43s):
In other words, mom was right.

1 (59m 55s):
Donna Baker is one of the producers of our show and the author of the book, the New York Regional Mormon Singles Halloween Dance,

20 (1h 0m 8s):
Just Under the Surface. Isn't that what they save? Just under the surface? It's all still in play. Better have your bag of money when the pad becomes for just under the surface. Never found.

1 (1h 0m 29s):
What program is produced today by Aviva de Kornfeld, Lena Masis. The people who put together today's rerun include Ellen Mustafa, stone Nelson, Matt Tierney, and Diane Wu. Managing editors, Sarah Abdurahman are senior editors. David Kestenbaum, our executive editor is Emmanuel Barry. Our website, this american life.org, you can hear over 700 episodes of our program for absolutely free. This American Life is delivered to public radio stations by prx, the Public Radio exchange. Thanks is always your program's co-founder, Mr. Tori Maia and I we're talking the other day and you got slip. He has not been listening to our program for weeks. Weeks. I was like, what? Totally confronted him about it.

1 (1h 1m 10s):
And I don't know, I guess I had a good reason.

11 (1h 1m 15s):
Just so tired of the sound of your voice.

1 (1h 1m 18s):
I'm a glass back next week. I told Tori I get it,

11 (1h 1m 22s):
You know, and I'm tired of the sound of my voice too. So I, I kind of sympathize

1 (1h 1m 43s):
Next week on the podcast of this American Live. So Elon Musk takes over Twitter and one of his aide comes to a Twitter employee named UL and asks a question and ll answers. And then the guy's like, okay, you're gonna tell that to Elon. And the guy's like, great. And then he goes and gets Elon,

21 (1h 1m 60s):
Who at this point I've like seen on the internet, but I, I had not met in person. And so Elon sits down and asks, well, let me see our tools, our tools. He owns the company at this point.

1 (1h 2m 17s):
And what Elon says, who he seems to be, be surprises you all. It's next week on the podcast, we're in your local public radio station.