Apple Card (0s):
Reboot your credit card with Apple Card, the credit card created by Apple. It gives you unlimited daily cash back that you can now choose to grow in a high yield savings account that's built right into the wallet app. Apply for Apple Card now in the wallet app on iPhone and start growing your daily cash with savings. Today. Apple cards subject to credit approval. Savings is available to Apple card owners subject to eligibility requirements, savings accounts provided by Goldman Sachs, bank USA. Member F D I C terms apply.

1 (29s):
A quick warning, there are curse words that are un beeped in today's episode of the show. If you prefer a beeped version, you can find that at our website, this american life.org.

2 (40s):
I've had a bunch of bike accidents in the last year and a half and the moment that things go wrong is always the same. These accidents happen during my morning commute and they always happen when it rains. I have this very light bicycle I got and when it rains, something about this bike on the city streets, a metal grate, a slippery patch of any sort at all can make the bike slip out from under me. I've broken a clavicle, I banged up my wrist. I've given myself some kind of bruise on my right arm that still wakes me up at night, months later. And in each of these three accidents, you know like when you're following, there's that second or two when you realize you're going down and you're on your way down, but you haven't actually hit the ground yet.

2 (1m 19s):
Weirdly, it is enough time for a bunch of thoughts to go through your head and all three times, like I say, it's been the same. Somehow I get very calm and I think, oh, this isn't gonna be so bad. I'm not going very fast. The ground isn't that far. There's a car coming, okay, no car is coming. I figured out how to fall. It's gonna be fine this time. And I think everybody knows how a person reacts under duress. I can tell you something about them and I think what this set of thought says about me is I am optimistic even when there is no factual basis for it at all. Like at the exact moment when I'm gonna collide with the wet surface of the street. A moment when things are definitely not gonna be fine, I'm thinking things will be fine.

2 (2m 4s):
I think this optimism has kept me in faltering relationships. When I mentioned all this at our radio show story meeting this week, one of my coworkers, somebody who I've worked with closely for years, told me he has never said this. He thinks my optimism is the single most important quality I have. He said, oh, tell me there are 17 things that can go wrong with some plan that we have. And I'll just go like, eh, let's go for it though. After say, after three accidents, I have learned not to ride this particular bike in the rain. Thank you very much. Today I own our program. We have stories where things go very, very badly for people. They are on the way down and in that moment of crisis, what they're thinking reveals so much about who they are.

2 (2m 44s):
Some people it leads to new insights, some it leads to no insights at all and some are hit with a glat boat of inspiration and figure out how to save themselves from WBE Z Chicago. This American life. I'm Arrow Glass, stay with us. Eline Pirates of the Caribbean town. One summer, a while back, group of friends got in trouble, got in over their heads. Almost literally in the middle of Boston Harbor, our producer Ike Sre Kja tells the tale though, for the purposes of today's story, call him Ishmael.

4 (3m 27s):
I've been friends with you this whole time and I didn't know that this is your most told story.

5 (3m 33s):
Well, I wouldn't tell it to you. You were there.

4 (3m 35s):
I was there. It was over 10 years ago and I was a new resident in the Boston area. My good friend Sophie Tintori introduced me to some people she knew well, we liked the same kinds of jokes and could only afford the same kind of rent. So we moved into a big house together and soon we got to the stage in any relationship where someone suggests taking things to the next level.

5 (4m 1s):
So I don't know exactly how it came up, but maybe eight friends or so decided to go in collectively and buy a used boat. And to my understanding, none of them knew a single thing about boats.

4 (4m 15s):
True. But did you know the word catamaran comes from Tamil Katu, Maram Wood tied together. Those are my guys. So that's one thing I know about boats and maybe more ancestral knowledge was just waiting to surface if I owned a boat. Here's how it happened. Our friend Max brought us the opportunity. He knew a person who knew a person who needed to get rid of their boat for $400 each max could make us Massachusetts boat people. Having doubled that in my bank account, I signed a check site unseen and when I finally got to meet our boat down at the harbor, it felt like we had gotten away with larceny.

4 (5m 3s):
I wish you could have seen it. A 1950s Highliner, a glamorous little wooden motorboat with an engine hanging off the back. Polished wood, two rows of white final seats, chrome finishes, think Italian vacation like the talented Mr. Ripley, but right here on the Boston Riviera, also like Boston's own Matt Damon in the talented Mr. Ripley, a new high society life was waiting for us. The first time I got on the boat, it really felt like magic.

4 (5m 44s):
We honked just the right number of times and a bridge opened up for us like a bouncer un clipping, a red velvet rope to the v I P section. We entered the Charles River and stop to admire the sailboats swirling around us. A small motorboat pulled up to us. The man asked if we were stranded. No sir, just enjoying this beautiful day. Thanks for asking. Well, you know you're parked in the middle of a regatta. Oh, he looked us over. Do you guys work for Google? The plan to cosplay our way to high society was already working.

4 (6m 35s):
Max knew the next step. We had to announce our old boat as the newest member of Boston's watery glitterati, which meant a christening party. Max had been practicing for this moment his whole life. The man loves extravagant gestures. He invited friends from near and far to the Charles River Esplanade and asked everyone to wear white. He showed up in black, a rented black tuxedo. Max stood on the front of the boat, named it Marjorie after his own mother, and smashed a purple bottle of Andre sparkling wine on the nose.

4 (7m 23s):
Now I don't know if you believe in curses and we didn't know it right away, but Max invoked roughly three curses in that moment, wearing a black tuxedo to a white party of your own design. That's more of a faux pop, not a curse, but number one, renaming a boat. That's a curse. Number two, Jews like max don't name children after living relatives. Now the prohibition doesn't specify boats. So let's call that a half curse. Number three, smashing champagne on a used boat. I heard that's a curse, but only if you consider Andre sparkling wine to be champagne.

4 (8m 11s):
Now it's impossible to say which curse attached itself to the Marjorie, but moments later the sky darkened and we all scattered as sheets of rain fell upon us the next day, the clouds cleared. Our friends were still in town so we tried to take them out again. Now this is where the story really begins.

5 (8m 44s):
It was a beautiful day, I think it was early summer and really sunny and gorgeous and there were maybe 12, 12 of us on the boat. Does that sound right?

4 (8m 57s):
Nine in a boat that was maybe made for six. But our Captain Max had just completed a boat safety course and he told us the only limit for boat capacity is having enough life jackets for everyone, which isn't true, but we didn't know that and Max denies ever saying it Squish together. Two in the front seat, four in the back, three others perched on the sides. We headed out,

5 (9m 27s):
People are taking turns driving, which is really fun. I got to take the wheel for a little bit and I was like cutting across the waves in a way where we'd like catch a little bit of air and slam down and catch them air and slam down, which I thought was very fun. And then at one point somebody leaned over and said to me, Sophie, this is a like a wooden lake boat.

4 (9m 48s):
The Marjorie wasn't built for high octane thrills. Someone says we should get back soon, but Sophie overrules them and then just like the American munitions that rebelled British ships in these very waters cannonball,

5 (10m 5s):
I jump off the boat cuz it's a beautiful day and I like to swim and I'm kind of messing around and looking at the boat from the water and when I climbed back into the boat I was like, I climbed in on the back and I just like, you know, hoisted myself up over the edge of the boat and at the point where the most force was being pushed down on the boat, a whole grip of water just flowed right in. I was like, whoa. Okay.

4 (10m 30s):
The back of the boat dipped below the water line and Boston Harbor began to enter

6 (10m 36s):
And then almost instantaneously the boat was like thigh deep in water.

4 (10m 41s):
This is Ben Yuen Campin a moral pillar of our group. The kind of friend your mom might ask, is Ben going to be at the party? We lived together and co-owned this boat.

6 (10m 52s):
My memory is that it was really, really fast just it went from like regular life. You're having fun to all of a sudden like emergency mode.

4 (11m 2s):
It's still a lovely summer day. We're still on our beautiful boat, but suddenly I'm tearing an aluminum can in half to bail us out. Turns out half a soda can only scoops as much water as your own cupped hands. I look over at Sophie the most mcg ivory of us to see if she has a better idea.

5 (11m 24s):
I saw a empty gallon, like plastic water gallon and I was like, oh, if I can tear the top off of this then I can scoop water out really fast. But I'm wondering like, okay, I don't have like anything to cut it with. That's fine, I'll cut it with my teeth. I'll just crack a little hole and once I get a little hole going they'll be purchased and I can tear the whole thing open and I try to bite it with my teeth and my teeth are just so weak. My hands are so weak and I like can't, I can't do do anything. I don't think I'm feeling experiencing anxiety, but suddenly it's like one of those nightmares where like none of your limbs work.

4 (12m 2s):
Maybe the weight of nine passengers was too much or maybe Sophie's full throttle aerials had split the seams or maybe it was a curse. Here's what we know we're alone. We're in a small boat, we're far from shore. The nearest land to us is Logan Airport and that's when it begins to dawn on me. If we have to jump off this boat and swim to the closest land, we would be army crawling up the banks of a government controlled airspace.

5 (12m 40s):
Look, it's so close, we can just swim to Logan and very quickly and like quietly, but quite definitively you said I'm not gonna do that.

4 (12m 52s):
I'm picturing my white friends being wrapped in tinfoil blankets and fed cocoa and me being perp walked off the tarmac by homeland security, not today government black site. Our options are shrinking, our bales aren't baling, the engines not turning. There's water. Water everywhere. I think we're going to sink.

7 (13m 17s):
We were sinking, we were in a sinking boat.

4 (13m 20s):
Toby David is visiting from Philly, a gifted speech maker. He helped Chris and the Marjorie just the day before. Now he reminds us he is not a good swimmer asthmatic and does not like cold water. The

7 (13m 36s):
Boat is going down and it's tilting and we're in the middle of the water and we have no idea what to do and I'm freaking out. I'm really fully freaking out.

5 (13m 46s):
I'm not hearing much. But through the ether, Ben's voice comes through and says, is anybody else noticing that? Occasionally one of us will ask a question and nobody will respond.

4 (13m 60s):
A silent panic falls over us. It is a moment that demands leadership decisive action. We turn our heads to our Captain Max. He found this boat named it after his mother sold us on the dream and now like a monomaniacal Ahab in a Red Sox cap Max denies there's any problem at all.

6 (14m 26s):
When we were all wondering what to do, one element of it was everyone saying, should we call for help? And Max saying no, max had this really strong instinct, don't call for help, don't call for I know what I'm doing.

7 (14m 39s):
I think Max was trying to cover up for this massive fuck up. And so he was sort of in denial that there was a problem

5 (14m 49s):
Even up to the point where the entire back end of the boat was fully underwater, the entire motor was underwater. Max was still saying it's fine, there's no problem.

4 (15m 0s):
But there are two. One we're stranded in the water and two, our captain has gone mad. We only know how to deal with the last one. Everyone shouts at max, admit it, we are in trouble. You need to call for help. But Max is sitting in the captain's seat, one hand clenched around the steering wheel and the other turning the key in the ignition like the engine wasn't underwater. The expression hope floats not true and very dangerous.

5 (15m 37s):
On one end of the spectrum of willingness to acknowledge this situation, there was Max who was just like face forward pretending he was still driving a boat. And then at the other end of the spectrum, the other extreme was there was there was this one wild card

8 (15m 52s):
Kath, oh my god,

4 (15m 55s):
I don't know anything about her.

5 (15m 57s):
She just like sort of appeared in a beam of clarity.

4 (16m 1s):
Kath Spangler went to college with Max, she's the ninth passenger and the one outsider when Max invited her on a ride, he had not mentioned there would be so many of us. For most of the trip she was shy and off to the side, but now the strangers surrounding her are screaming at the one person she knows and he has lost control.

9 (16m 26s):
I remember just really clearly like looking over at max, sitting there in the captain's seat with his eyes kind of downcast, frozen and something. There was like a switch that flipped in me. If the boat sinks and all of us are in the harbor, we're no longer visible to anyone. We're just little heads. No one can see us. We can tread water for a while. What if we get a cramp, get tired, swallow water. How long can we do that for? What if the current takes us out further? I didn't wanna let myself go there, but I remember thinking that people were gonna die if we don't do something, people are gonna die today.

4 (17m 14s):
And in that moment, captain Kath is born.

9 (17m 19s):
My mind went really blank and calm and it was like a calculator filled my brain and I was just very logical and I started focusing on actions. Where are the life vests? How many do you have? I took on this voice that was very bossy and direct

4 (17m 39s):
Like Boston's own Matt Damon in Goodwill Hunting, she begins solving the unsolvable problem. Namely if nine passengers get in in a boat, which turns out to only have eight life jackets, not one per person, as we have been led to believe Max and now some of those life jackets are unreachable in the underwater part of the boat. How many passengers are totally screwed?

9 (18m 8s):
I remember looking over and there was this guy who looked really pale, he just didn't look like he was doing very well and I asked him, I said, can you swim well? And he said, no I can't. And I just gave him the life fest. I took it off my neck, put it on his and said, well I can

4 (18m 26s):
Kath hands out the remaining life jackets based on need. The water is rising, we are coming apart and preparing to abandon ship.

9 (18m 37s):
And that's when I got on top of the bow of the boat.

4 (18m 40s):
She climbs to the front of the boat and starts waving her arms to the pilots in airplanes over our heads to nearby boats in the water, anyone who might be able to come to our rescue.

6 (18m 53s):
She was the one person who was sort of like, what the fuck is wrong with you people? Of course we need

5 (18m 57s):
Help. And she like stood up on the boat and started waving her arms and trying to get the attention of a boat that I didn't realize was also quite close. That was like the rescue boat,

4 (19m 8s):
An actual rescue boat just within waving distance.

9 (19m 13s):
It was so much taller than us off the waterline and there were guys on deck kind of looking down and almost chuckling at us like making light of the situation. And I remember feeling like they have no idea what we've been through.

4 (19m 28s):
They must have radioed for a towboat because one arrives within minutes. The captain calls down, do I have permission to perform a life rescue Who says no to that?

7 (19m 43s):
I have to confess one thing really fast.

4 (19m 45s):
Toby is admirably honest about what happened next.

7 (19m 49s):
I had just have to say I'm sure that when the rescue boat arrived that I, I may have been the first person off of the sinking ship. I fucking levitated to that ladder to get off that boat. So that's not great for me.

4 (20m 4s):
We climbed off the boat to safety and just like Matt Damon and saving private Ryan, we were going home. Kath says she looks back at this moment a lot that it's become pivotal to her understanding of herself. She's proud that she jumped in and saved us. It was a tragic ending for our captain from the safety of our towboat. I can still picture him down there alone on the Marjorie refusing to abandon ship and that was the last time I ever saw him.

4 (20m 49s):
He died that day.

10 (20m 51s):
Yeah, it's the only honorable thing I could have done. I went down with the ship,

4 (20m 56s):
Captain Max died. My friend Max survived a little bruised his ego and his reputation for big schemes with little consequences. And while the boat became the story, Sophie likes to tell more than any other, not Max.

10 (21m 15s):
This is a story I have told the least. I can't overstate to you how big a failure. This was one of the most embarrassing failures of my entire life. It's a thing I look back at and shutter

4 (21m 31s):
Max spent more than a decade feeling terrible. The rest of us spent that same amount of time wondering why our friend Max was trying to gaslight us and sync us, but we'd never talked about it. None of us have, and when Max and I catch up for this story, it becomes clear that he has a completely different memory of how it all went down. He says he actually did the one thing we were begging him to do.

10 (22m 2s):
I remember a lot of things. I remember calling CTO and telling them where we were. I remember that like I did.

4 (22m 10s):
Wait, can I just back up once?

10 (22m 11s):
Go ahead.

4 (22m 12s):
Did you just say you called cto? CTO is Boat aaa the boat that performed the life rescue. Max says he called them on his phone way back when the engine first stalled out. That's the reason we got saved that day.

10 (22m 30s):
Yeah, I don't think I made a big deal about calling cto.

4 (22m 36s):
No, I didn't believe him. I just interviewed five of our friends who had no memory of this at all. So I followed up with cto. Turns out they keep meticulous records and there it was a call for a tow. July 17th, 2010 charged to our membership under Max's name. It cost $50 help was on the way, I guess in the chaos. Max just forgot to tell everybody on the boat.

10 (23m 12s):
Look I, I mean clearly I owe them an explanation, but a lot of our passive aggressive ass friends have never brought up this day with me.

4 (23m 24s):
Our story had hardened over a decade but was built on a lie. Max had kind of done the right thing and Kath wasn't the one who saved us. The sadistic editors at this American life made me invite Kath back to share our findings. Max called for help and apparently he was the one who got help to arrive. Not you waving.

9 (23m 57s):
That just feels impossible,

4 (24m 0s):
But I think it's true. Hmm. And I'm so sorry that's the way that it happened.

9 (24m 10s):
I'm just completely confused. So this whole time he has been the hero of this story, but no one has known it. It's so perfect that this is the finding. It's so unlike max two to not kind of claim that like claim the credit of it. Yeah. And say No, I did that.

4 (24m 37s):
The final curse on the Marjorie had the longest fuse and a devastating payload. It added an asterisk to a heroic deed and turned a failed captain into a guy who kind of did the right thing but was really confusing about it. Please heed this precautionary tale. Beware of curses. Don't try to be a Massachusetts boat person for just $400 and if you already called cto, tell your friends

11 (25m 19s):
We'll gather around in here. This tale our sons and of kissing motor boat at the bottom. Captain Max dream of heading out to see they have deed out their bank accounts at, but

3 (25m 37s):
Moyie Wayne Moie,

11 (25m 41s):
They have deed out their bank accounts. Mo

3 (25m 46s):
Well,

11 (25m 47s):
Captain Max is standing proud on that faithful morning torso. Bear in the wind in his hair. Suddenly without warning the engine died. This cried and the ship filled up with water. Captain Max had See you all indeed. He said he never did. Or was it Kath that waved them down? We'll never find out. Now loose lips can sink a ship. Secrets never travel. Captain Max in his watery grave, how do you like them? Apples lingerie, Margerie.

11 (26m 30s):
Captain Max down with a ship. How you like them apples?

2 (26m 38s):
So that story was by Ike Swiss Kja. The Sea Shandy was written for us by Sam Geller who was there that faithful day. He is Captain Max's brother. He performs as Samson, the truest other writers on the song Ariel East. Chances with Wolves and Glasser, Gordon Manette played the accordion. Coming up ship gets a new captain who immediately throws half the crew overboard. He says, to save the ship from sinking. We hear an insider's true real life account that's in a minute from Chicago Bubble Radio. When our program continues,

Saks.com (27m 9s):
Sax.com editors are always tracking the top styles that are trending right now. Tailored blazers and mid dresses are selling out@sax.com, especially from brands like Veronica Beard and the row and sax.com. Editors are seen the web oversized tote on the streets of New York, Milan and Paris. If you want your own free personalized trend recommendations sax.com, stylists can do that and more. Plus there's free shipping and returns all the time@sax.com.

Indeed (27m 38s):
Support for this American Life comes from Indeed. Indeed is the hiring platform where you can attract, interview and hire all in one place. Don't spend hours on multiple job sites looking for candidates with the right skills when you can do it all with Indeed. Find top talent fast with indeed suite of powerful hiring tools like matching assessments and virtual interviews. And now with Indeed, you only pay for quality applications that meet your hiring criteria. Visit indeed.com/american to start hiring now. That's indeed.com/american terms and conditions apply. Cost per application pricing not available for everyone need to hire. You need indeed

2 (28m 17s):
This American Life. Mira Glass, today's program. What I was thinking as we were thinking, we have stories today about what goes through your head in the middle of calamities, big and small and what those thoughts tell us. We've arrived at act two of our program, act two, going down with the censorship. So the SS Marjorie cost, our producer Ike and his friends about 400 bucks each. The ship we're gonna talk about next is significantly more expensive by 44 billion. That's what he got. Musk paid for Twitter back in October. The company has been sort of famously foundering in the water since then and some of the most revealing details about what it has been like on the inside at that company, among the people who work there have come from a reporter, Casey Newton and his colleague Zoe Schiffer, who make the newsletter platformer.

2 (29m 3s):
They've had so many scoops. Casey also co-host a podcast called Hard Fork that the New York Times puts out about the tech industry that can I say I love highest recommendation, but to get back to our story, there's been one person in particular at Twitter that Casey has been wanting to talk to, a very senior employee at the company who while just doing his job, ended up having to take on two of the most powerful people on the internet and in the world. Those two people, Elon Musk and the former president of the United States, Donald Trump. Casey wanted to hear all about that and also what it was like for the guy, what he was thinking, what he was doing.

2 (29m 43s):
Once Elon took over and the place started taking on water, here's Casey Newton.

12 (29m 49s):
Yoel Roth did a lot of jobs at Twitter over the years, but it was always the same kind of job. He was in the content moderation business. One of those people who decides which of your posts can stay up on the internet and which ones need to come down. And he got his first glimpse at what life as a content moderator would be like while he was in college on a date. He's gay, so am i.

13 (30m 12s):
I went out for drinks with somebody without knowing where he worked and he volunteered that he actually worked for the parent company of the website, manhunt, which was one of the kind of early gay websites that was very specifically sexually focused.

12 (30m 30s):
And even in these early days of the web, there was already a team of people who were deciding what you could and couldn't post there. They

13 (30m 36s):
Had a set of kind of convoluted rules about what types of nudity you were allowed to show in which places. So nudity fine, but not all nudity. So there were, there were specifics and he described to me a system of color coding images of red, yellow, green, and then a team of people who were responsible for making those designations. And I'll never forget, he said the people doing these reviews are almost entirely straight women. And I was just floored in that moment of thinking, God, there's a team of heterosexual women who have to look at the depraved things that gay men are posting on the internet. I'm so sorry.

13 (31m 17s):
And

12 (31m 18s):
Right, the senior whole pick specialist at Manhunt was some poor woman.

13 (31m 23s):
That's not an exaggeration. Yeah. Yeah,

12 (31m 26s):
We have, she's doing okay. Are you out there? Call into this American

13 (31m 29s):
Life. I'm so sorry. Yeah,

12 (31m 30s):
I'm sorry for what you saw after the date. You all had one thought.

13 (31m 36s):
I was like, aha, that's my dissertation topic.

12 (31m 40s):
You all was in grad school. He got his PhD and soon after a job at Twitter, they gave him a small desk. This was 2015. The office's most striking feature was probably

13 (31m 52s):
A giant life size cardboard cutout of Justin Bieber sat directly behind my desk. Justin Bieber obviously being a major figure in early Twitter,

12 (32m 3s):
Maybe maybe the most popular user, at least for some period of time.

13 (32m 6s):
Yes, there were, you know, rumors that Twitter had entire servers just dedicated to serving Justin Bieber related traffic

12 (32m 13s):
Besides Bieber. What Twitter was really known for back then was its trolls. The site was plagued by users' harassing other users, particularly women. That year. I co reported a story about how the site's then C E o Dick Costelo wrote a memo saying quote, we suck at dealing with abuse trolls on the platform and we've sucked at it for years. That was the backdrop for UL's new job as an intern at Twitter. Twitter the previous year. He spent part of his time moderating content. He'd seen this video of a dog getting abused. He removed it from the site, but for years it haunted him.

13 (32m 49s):
It was never even like the specific image. I couldn't, I couldn't tell you what the dog looked like or what the video was. I just remember its existence. And I remember that feeling of seeing it and then of clicking like I think the button said no

12 (33m 5s):
More than anyone ever talks about. It's this mostly invisible job of content moderation that makes Twitter usable for the average person. It's what makes every forum on the internet usable at all. And Yoel was good at the job. He got promotion after promotion in his department, what Twitter and a lot of other tech companies now call trust and safety. It's a hard job and it just kept getting more complicated the way Yoel tells it. There was a wild new case to examine almost every day. Foreign governments impersonating their enemies, real people organizing harassment campaigns, impossible debates over what should count as hate speech and regular meetings over whether to put labels on tweets that didn't quite violate the company's rules but would benefit for more context like about Covid in 2020.

12 (33m 52s):
The biggest case yet landed on UL's desk. It was a case about a user who kept causing problems and this guy's fans were even more rabid than Justin Bieber's. It was the president of the United States, Donald Trump. This is a couple months into the pandemic. Trump had tweeted that mail-in ballots in that year's election. Were gonna lead to widespread fraud. And just to lay my own cards on the table, I thought that was really bad because they won't lead to widespread fraud anyway. Twitter's policies prohibited misleading people about the voting process the way Trump was doing, but the company had never taken action against the president's tweets before Yoel had to decide what to do.

13 (34m 33s):
I didn't see a basis for changing the policy, modifying it, winking at it, squinting and finding a viol like there. There was no way around it. It was clearly a violation of our policy. Truthfully, there was a lot of nervousness about crossing this line For the first time taking action on a tweet from the president of the United States.

12 (34m 56s):
The company decided that instead of removing the president's post, it would put a label under it, a label that just said, get the facts about mail-in ballots with a link to a page that pushed back on Trump's claims.

13 (35m 7s):
At a certain point, when it became clear that yes, this was going to happen, it became a question of who could push the button

12 (35m 16s):
On some level. We probably understand that in a moment like this, someone has to take a physical action to type the words, get the facts about mail-in ballots, and click the button to attach the label to the post. I've talked to dozens of content moderators over the years, but I've never talked to someone who had moderated the president of the United States. When it came time to take action, only a handful of people at Twitter had the power to do it. The company had locked down access after an incident where a former contractor on his last day working there briefly deactivated Trump's account, shout it to body r Dewey who says it was an accident. Also, Twitter had just introduced this idea of putting labels on misinformation a couple weeks before.

13 (35m 55s):
And so it was this perfect storm where I, it required elevated access and knowledge of this incredibly convoluted system for applying these labels. And I was the only one who knew how to do it. And so I got an instruction from my boss that said, all right, we're gonna do this

12 (36m 15s):
Also because this is how life goes. Yoel and his husband were moving houses the day all this happened.

13 (36m 21s):
I excused myself from wrangling the dog and the movers and the relocation of stuff and sat in the front seat of the car with my cell phone tethered to my work laptop. I was on a video call with some of the other leaders at the company who were making this decision, and I remember a countdown where I was going to push the button that would apply the label to this tweet.

12 (36m 52s):
At that same moment, Twitter's communication staff was going to announce the decision

13 (36m 56s):
And it felt very important in that moment for the timing to be exactly joined up. For some reason we counted down, I clicked the button and then I refreshed the public view of the tweet and saw the label and the communications team said, we've got it from here. And I said, okay, I have to go back and deal with the movers now. And I hung up the call and I closed my laptop and I crossed the street back into my apartment.

12 (37m 25s):
If they made a movie about Trump and Twitter, you can imagine how they'd shoot this scene with the Twitter employees hunched over a console and a control room high fiving. But in reality, of course it's the opposite. Most content moderators try really hard not to bring their own political beliefs into the job. In a way, the legitimacy of the whole company they work for depends on it. Shortly before that Trump tweet, Twitter had explained its reasoning for adding labels to misleading information with a blog post. Importantly, the post was signed with Joelle's name and soon after that first label showed up on Trump's tweet, his name was everywhere.

13 (38m 2s):
I wake up one morning, the third day that my husband and I are in our new home to my phone exploding because Kellyann Conway has just talked about me on Fox News and has said that I'm responsible for the censorship of the president's account and am responsible for censorship at Twitter more generally. And in that moment, everything exploded.

14 (38m 24s):
Thank you very much. We're here today to defend free speech from one of the gravest dangers.

13 (38m 30s):
The president held up a copy of the New York Post with me on it in the Oval Office as he announced an executive order restricting censorship by Silicon Valley companies.

14 (38m 40s):
His name is Yoel Roth and he's the one that said that mail-in balloting, you look mail-in, no fraud, no fraud really.

13 (38m 50s):
And for weeks discussion of me and my political opinions and my beliefs became a symbol of everything that was allegedly wrong with Silicon Valley and with the decisions that companies have made,

12 (39m 5s):
Twitter had to hire security to protect Joel and his husband. It had all taken him by surprise. He'd expected the criticism, but not that he would be the target. In cases like this, people would usually come after the CEO or the company itself. But soon UL realized that what his harassers were doing was much more effective. If you make companies believe that their employees could be hurt for enforcing the rules, they might be more reluctant to enforce them. Twitter didn't stop though. They kept putting labels on his tweets and Trump of course lost the election though that's probably not how he would describe what happened. And after the January 6th attacks at the Capitol, he lost his Twitter account too.

12 (39m 46s):
Yoel did not press the button on that one, but here's a detail about that day that I love.

13 (39m 50s):
Yeah, there was, there was a technical question about whether it would work or whether Twitter would crash.

12 (39m 55s):
Can can, can you actually ban Donald Trump's a counter

13 (39m 58s):
Bann? Somebody with that many followers is actually technically very complicated, right? Like when you suspend somebody, Twitter systems have to figure out what to do with all of the people who followed them. And in

12 (40m 12s):
Other words, if you follow Trump, Twitter has to remove him from your list of follows,

13 (40m 16s):
Which sounds very straightforward, but when you have to do that tens of millions of times, immediately we had to think about like, if we push this button, is the site gonna go down?

12 (40m 28s):
As it turned out, the site stayed up and Trump was banned for a while anyway. It was such a strange moment with the click of a mouse. Twitter had managed to do something that Congress attempted twice and failed to punish Donald Trump in a way that had real and immediate consequences for him. Trump headed off to Mar-a-Lago. You all got promoted. He was running the whole department and that's when another Matthew Rich guy started to complain about all the rules on Twitter. The guy was Elon Musk. In April, 2022, Musk announced he'd acquired a big stake in the company.

12 (41m 7s):
A few days after that, he announced his intention to buy an outright. As soon as the news broke eel's, employees started asking what it meant for them. Elon had been tweeting a lot about free speech and his feeling that Twitter didn't have enough of it. He posted a photo of six people in dark robes with the caption shadow band council reviewing tweet and truth social exists because Twitter, censored free speech also stuff like, like Next I'm gonna buy Coca-Cola and put the cocaine back in and let's make Twitter maximum fun. Some employees working in trust and safety worried that maximum fun might mean Elon would dismantle their whole operation.

12 (41m 48s):
UL was willing to give 'em a chance. Though

13 (41m 50s):
What I told them and what I sincerely believed was it's too soon to tell. Yeah, people are frequently caricatured and villainized in the media. Certainly I was. And that's not a reflection of who they actually are, and so don't pre-judge.

12 (42m 6s):
At the same time, Yoel knew that his more concerned employees might be right, that he was aboard a ship that might be about to sink. He knew he needed to be alert for the signs. His solution was to make a list to write down the red lines that he would not cross no matter what most days', job was to enforce other people's rules. But with Elon coming in, he wanted to write down some rules for himself.

13 (42m 31s):
You have to have written policies and procedures so that when the moment comes to make that decision, you just follow the procedure that you had laid out before.

12 (42m 42s):
Your whole job was about trying to not make decisions out of impulse and emotion, but sort of by following a playbook. And that meant that before Elon took over, you actually had to give yourself a

13 (42m 54s):
Playbook. That's right.

12 (42m 55s):
And so on a notepad by his desk at his house, he wrote down his red lines, I will not break the law. I will not lie for him. I will not undermine the integrity of an election. By the way, if you ever find yourself making a list like this, your job is insane. Then Yoel wrote down one more

13 (43m 15s):
Rule. This was like a big one. I will not take arbitrary or unilateral content, moderation, action.

12 (43m 23s):
And so, so if Elon came up to you and just said, ban this person, you were gonna do

13 (43m 27s):
That. That was the limit.

12 (43m 28s):
Did people on your team show you the list that they were making too, or talk to you about them?

13 (43m 32s):
We did.

12 (43m 39s):
Yo's list of rules got its first test pretty quickly on the day Elon officially took over Twitter, it was the end of October. Lawyers were finalizing paperwork and Twitter's staff was attempting to enjoy the annual company Halloween party. The scene was surreal. Were you there for the Halloween party?

13 (43m 57s):
I

12 (43m 57s):
Was. Were you dressed up?

13 (43m 59s):
I was not.

12 (44m 0s):
Lots of people did dress up though. Employees brought their kids. There were balloons and face painting. I've talked to so many people who went to this party and every one of them has added some bizarre new detail. Some people saw a guy dressed as a scarecrow walking around with what appeared to be a handler. They wondered if it was musk. It turned out to be a hired performer.

13 (44m 22s):
As the Halloween party had started, I was sitting in a conference room doing some work, and we start hearing rumors that not only has the deal closed, but also the company's executives have been fired. And at first it's unconfirmed. I get texts from a couple of reporters who asked me, is it true that Vigia has been fired? And I said, no, I just saw her. She's still online in the company's like Slack and Gmail. Like she's of course not. Like your sources are lying to you. And then it was true.

12 (45m 1s):
Such an important lesson. Always trust the reporters. Pretty soon afterward, Yoel gets summoned over to the part of headquarters where Elon and his team had set up shop. He was nervous

13 (45m 15s):
And I thought, okay, I'm about to be fired. So I walk past a number of my employees and I don't let on that any of this is happening because I don't wanna panic them because they're there with their kids. And so I smile and you know, make jokes about Halloween costumes and walk over to this other part of the office where somebody who I gather works for Elon Musk in some capacity, but they don't introduce themselves. They just say, how do I get access to Twitter's internal content moderation systems? And I kind of pause and and blink and say, you don't. That's not going to happen. I explained that Twitter is operating under an FTC consent decree that access to internal systems is regarded as highly sensitive and that there are both legal and policy reasons why we simply couldn't grant access to somebody.

12 (46m 10s):
Elon's aid explains that they're worried about an insider threat, someone who might try to sabotage the site on their way out. UL tells 'em, sure, I can help with that. He explains some steps they can take to protect the company and to UL surprise, the aid says, okay, you're gonna tell that to Elon. And then he leaves and comes back with Elon Musk, who

13 (46m 32s):
At this point I've like seen on the internet, but I I had not met in person. And so Elon sits down and asks, well, let me see our tools, our tools. He owns the company at this point, and so I show him his own account in Twitter's set of enforcement tools, and I explain to him what the basic capabilities are and then I make a recommendation to him of what I think Twitter should do to prevent insider misuse of tools. During the corporate transition,

12 (47m 6s):
You will also had recommendations about the midterms and the upcoming presidential election in Brazil.

13 (47m 11s):
And as I start to explain some of the rationale related to the Brazilian election, Elon interrupts me and says, yes, Brazil, Bolsonaro and Lula, very dangerous. We need to protect that. And I was floored. I came into that conversation expecting him to fire me, and instead he jumps ahead of me to say that he's sensitive to the risks of offline violence in the context of the Brazilian election and wants to make sure that we don't interrupt Twitter's content moderation capabilities. It was like a dream come true.

12 (47m 44s):
You're thinking maybe I'm actually aligned with this person.

13 (47m 47s):
Yes. Yeah.

12 (47m 52s):
And so Yoel stayed. He was surprised in a good way on Twitter. Elon talked about the company as if it should barely have any rules at all, but in that moment, one-on-one, Yoel thought he might turn out to be more reasonable, maybe spending some time inside the company would show Elon the real value of those rules, which is that without them you'd lose your users and you'd lose your advertisers. And you all felt like Elon could be sensible. One of his first requests was to restore the account of the Babylon b A right wing satire site, but Yoel explained how it had broken Twitter's rules and Elon backed off.

13 (48m 29s):
I found him to be funny. I found him to be reasonable. I found that he responded well to having evidence backed recommendations be put in front of him. And I for a moment felt that it might be possible for Twitter's trust and safety work to not just continue, but also to get better.

12 (48m 53s):
After that, things began to move really quickly. About a week later, Elon laid off half the staff. Suddenly Yoel was one of the highest ranking employees from the old Twitter who was still working at the new one, and it seemed like Elon liked him. After some trolls went after UL for some of his old tweets, Elon tweeted that he supported him. The US midterm elections took place mostly without incident. Same for the election in Brazil. Elon kept pushing his teams to move faster even as he was laying them off. At first all said that Twitter still had enough content moderators to keep the site safe, but the cuts kept coming and the work got harder and harder.

12 (49m 38s):
Soon Elon unveiled his first big idea for making lots of money and recouping the 44 billion he had spent to buy the company. Joelle and his team thought it was insane. The plan to let anyone get a blue verified badge for their profile for $8 a month, the company called it Twitter Blue. The risks seemed obvious. People would just make new accounts to impersonate brands and politicians and other celebrities. Joelle and his team wrote a seven page document outlining the risks, but the badges went on sale anyway and almost immediately impersonators started buying them and wreaking havoc in maybe the most famous case, someone impersonated the drug maker Eli Lilly and said that insulin would now be free.

12 (50m 23s):
The real Eli Lilly's stock price dropped more than 5%. It was a vivid illustration of why companies like Twitter make rules in the first place. Impersonators were suddenly all over the site

13 (50m 33s):
And so okay, we have to ban them, but somebody has to review them. We can't just like ban everyone. And so you do that with content moderators and we had instructions to fire more of our contract content moderation staff to cut costs.

12 (50m 50s):
All this seems really self-evident to me, and I think it would've seemed self-evident even before you launched this. What, what was Elon's take on this? Like how did he respond to you raising these concerns?

13 (51m 5s):
Do it anyway. And that was a breaking point for me.

12 (51m 11s):
We reached out to Twitter for comment but didn't hear back. Reporters have sometimes gotten automated poop emojis, but I didn't even get that. Joelle had spent a long time gaming out scenarios for what might make him leave Twitter. He made that whole list. He wouldn't break the law for Elon. He wouldn't undermine an election, but ultimately what got to him was something he didn't foresee. It wasn't on the list, it was something more personal. He knew this bizarre plan wouldn't just make people lose trust in Twitter. They would lose trust in him.

13 (51m 45s):
Behind Elon Musk, I was the most prominent representative of the company period. And I became aware that when Twitter blue turned into the predictable hot mess that it was that people would ask, why didn't the trust and safety team see this coming? Yoel, why are you so bad at your job?

12 (52m 9s):
The day after the launch, Yoel and Elon got on the phone. Elon thought the problem could be fixed if Apple would just hand over all the credit card information of the people doing the impersonations. Yoel had to explain that Apple would never do that. He also asked Elon to slow down the rollout of blue so that they would have time to hire and train more content moderators to look for impersonators. Elon didn't understand why that would take longer than a day.

13 (52m 33s):
I got off that phone call and thought, I can't solve this problem. I will spend the rest of my time at this company trying to bail out a ship that might sink more slowly because I'm there bailing it out, but I don't wanna spend the rest of my life bailing out a sinking ship.

12 (52m 53s):
Yoel had made up his mind to leave. He called a couple of his employees to let them know.

13 (52m 58s):
I knew that that day I did not want to be walked out of Twitter after almost eight years by corporate security. I wanted to leave on my own terms and there was an all hands going on at the time, Elon's first time addressing the company in person. And during that all hands meeting, I hit send on my resignation email, put my laptop in my bag, and walked outta the building for the last time.

12 (53m 24s):
Did you purposefully send it when you knew who he was on stage?

13 (53m 29s):
Yes, absolutely. I knew that it would take some time for the HR team to see it and process it for that to get to him, for him to react to it. And in that time I knew I wanted to be back at home and not be in the office. Was it

15 (53m 44s):
A long email?

13 (53m 46s):
It was one sentence.

15 (53m 47s):
What was the sentence?

13 (53m 52s):
I am no longer able to perform the responsibilities of my job and resign it. As of today at 5:00 PM I remember feeling two things. On one hand I felt relieved and then I also just felt deeply sad. I just wanted to get home. Yeah, so I left Twitter's garage and was driving and I was about halfway across the Bay Bridge when I think Zoe broke the news that I left Twitter and my phone exploded and I get what

12 (54m 28s):
You didn't even get across the bridge before Zoe broke the news. God, I love her. Zoe's my coworker. I'm immensely proud of her. Even if she did kind of mess up UL's plan, the car UL was driving that day was a Tesla by the way. He was leasing it, he'd been trying to return it, but couldn't get anyone to respond to him. Maybe they'd all been drafted to work at Twitter Yo Lo for a few days. He spent some time writing and published an op-ed in the New York Times. It explained in a very dry and principled way wide left.

12 (55m 7s):
That's when some rando account re-shared something. Yoel had tweeted from 2010 about relationships between adults and minors. Around that time he'd been working on his dissertation, which called for tech companies to do more to protect minors at gay hookup sites like Grindr. But Elon replied with a tweet. This explains a lot. Then he linked to UL's dissertation quote, looks like UL is arguing in favor of children being able to access adult internet services in his PhD thesis. Not true, but UL's phone exploded with abusive messages. It made the backlash to labeling a Trump tweet look minor by comparison,

13 (55m 44s):
Hundreds of messages per hour, homophobic, antisemitic, and also violent, just deeply endlessly violent. And he only had to tweet once. He didn't even have to say directly, Yoel is a pedophile. He just had to wink and nod in that direction and people took his lead.

12 (56m 10s):
When Yoel had first used the internet, it felt like a small self-contained space separate from what we used to call real life. But by the time Yoel quit Twitter, the distinction between online and off had collapsed and it had collapsed in large part because of the company he worked at Twitter. The site brought together so many of the world's most influential people and then pitted them against each other in these all consuming daily battles. And the anger coming out of that could drive people to do things, violent things. Pretty soon UL and his husband were overwhelmed with death threats.

13 (56m 47s):
My husband turned to me one day and said, I've seen you through a lot of being targeted and being harassed. I've never seen you look scared before. And that was the moment that we decided to leave our home.

12 (57m 4s):
And so once again, they moved. I met with Yoel at the temporary house that he and his husband are staying at while they look for a new place. After all this, I thought Yoel might want a different kind of job. I would've wanted a different kind of job. The internet had almost killed him or threatened to anyway, but still, somehow he's optimistic about what the internet could be in a way you almost never hear anymore.

13 (57m 30s):
I love the internet. I really do. I think it the Internet's power to bring people together and help folks all over the world find connections that matter to them is magical and is one of humanity's greatest achievements. I also think the internet can be incredibly dangerous and scary and the work of trust and safety is trying to push that back a little bit and to make the internet more of what it can be and less of the dangers of what it could turn into.

12 (58m 10s):
UL's idealism about the internet feels radical given how destabilizing it's been, how destabilizing Twitter has been. But I know what he means. Back when he was a teenager, the internet gave UL a place to discover other gay people, the chance to talk to everyone in the world instantaneously. It gave 'em a career. It gave me all those things too. I remember life before the internet. It was a less frantic time, but it was also a lonelier one.

3 (58m 43s):
Here's

12 (58m 44s):
How Twitter's doing. Since UL left Hate speech is on the rise, advertisers have fled. Banks that funded Musk's takeover have marked their investments down by more than half. Musk himself is warned repeatedly that the site might go bankrupt. I kind of hope it does because what's happening at Twitter right now is teaching us a lesson. It's taken us way too long to learn. The people like Yoel, they're not the enemies of free speech online. They're the ones who make it possible. If you get any value out of social media at all, it's in part because of them. They clean the place up, make it feel good to be there. They pull us back when we go too far and they do censor us and like of course, we hate them for it.

12 (59m 30s):
We convince ourselves we do a much better job. If it were us, that's what Elon thought. Look what happened. Nobody likes the guy enforcing the rules, but watching Twitter sink into the ocean, you can't help but notice how much you miss that guy when he's gone.

2 (59m 54s):
Casey Newton, he's the co-host of the podcast, hard Fork from the New York Times, who were our collaborators on this. He also rates the newsletter Platformer. His story was produced by David Kestenbaum and Davis Land.

17 (1h 0m 5s):
Listen up children and give your respect to this tale of the captain. In another cursed wreck, Elon was his name, commandeering his game. He took over the ship seeking only more fame for his rockets in cars. He had tons of acclaim, but Ilan wanted more ended in shape.

3 (1h 0m 34s):
Elon

17 (1h 0m 34s):
Wanted more. Ended in he dragged all the watchmen out from their crows nest. Force them to walk down the to their leaving. No one to look out. The one who knew best. The ship fell. Ship.

2 (1h 1m 2s):
Hello, welcome, Ms. Produced Day by Sean Cole with Zoe Chase. People put together Today show include Michaele, Andrea Lopez, Crudo of Viva de Kornfeld, Bethel Hop, Valerie Kipp Mustafa Stone, Nelson, Katherine Mao. Nadia Raymond, Charlotte Sleeper. We Spiegel, Francis Swanson, Christopher Sala, Matt Tierney, Julie Whitaker, and Diane Wu. Our managing editor, Sarah Ab Rahman, our senior editors, David Kesten Bell. Our executive editor is Emmanuel Barry. Special thanks today to Kendra Stan Lee Dev Patek Hurst, Shawn Lee, Jeremy Butman, Imran Ahed, and the CTO Captain who rescued the Marjorie and spoke with Ike, who would like to remain unnamed. Our Second Sea, Shanti in today's show was also written by Sampson, the Truist, Sam Geller Strings and Engineering by Jessica Tansky.

2 (1h 1m 46s):
Our website, this american life.org, where you can stream our archive of over seven 50 episodes for absolutely free. Also, those list of favorite shows, if you're looking for something to listen to, all kinds of other stuff there again, this American life.org, this American Life is delivered to public radio stations by prx, the Public Radio Exchange. Thanks as always, to our program's co-founder, Ms. Troy Maier. You know, he and Kendall and Roman and Shiv were in the deep end of the pool. They were struggling. They were nearly drowning. So Tori looked up and realized, look,

5 (1h 2m 16s):
It's so close, we can just swim to Logan.

2 (1h 2m 18s):
I'm her glass back next week with more stories of this American life.

3 (1h 2m 23s):
Woo.

2 (1h 2m 43s):
Next week on the podcast of this American Life, Bobby Dunbar went missing in 1912, lost in the swamp. He was just a little kid. Eight months later, he was found in the hands of a tinker. What actually happened to him wasn't revealed until 2004. The ghost Of Bobby Dunbar next week on the podcast or on your local public radio station.