0 (0s):
Rack your look for summer now at Nordstrom Rack and save up to 60% on brands you love. We've got 'em, rag and Bone. Vince Stewart Weitzman, Calvin Klein, Kurt Geiger, London Madewell, Steve Madden and Adidas Score. Great brands create prices every day at Nordstrom Rack. What will you find? Breezy dresses, easy tops, designer bags and sunglasses, sandals, swim and activewear. Plus updates for your family and home. Get summer's best for less, up to 60% less today at your Nordstrom Rack Store.

1 (32s):
A quick warning, there are curse words that are un beeped in today's episode of the show. If you prefer a beeped version, you can find that at our website, this american life.org.

2 (43s):
Some things in your life you decide you're never gonna talk about. For Jules, it was what a youth pastor did to her long ago when she was a teenager in Texas. She tried to put it aside, tried to move on, but then Me Too happened with so many more women were putting men who'd assaulted or harassed them.

3 (1m 2s):
And Matt Lauer had been on the front cover of the USA Today and I thought, oh my goodness, it inspired me so much that that very day I wrote to my abuser, who was now a pastor at a megachurch.

2 (1m 21s):
He never responded, so she wrote a blog post about it thinking, you know, maybe a hundred people would see it. But that was not the moment we were in. It became international news. And because of Me Too, there were consequences that would've been unimaginable. Just a year before the former youth pastor resigned from his job at the megachurch, things changed for jewels too. All of a sudden, lots of women were calling her for advice on how to handle what they were going through. She found a lot of meaning in those conversations. She said up a nonprofit, the funds therapy for women who've been sexually assaulted. But there were aftershocks from her Me Too moment that she never could have guessed like with her three daughters.

2 (2m 1s):
There was this conversation a year or two after she came forward.

3 (2m 4s):
One of them said, mommy, why do you have to be a survivor? And that just broke my heart.

2 (2m 13s):
And how old was she when she said that?

3 (2m 16s):
Probably about six or seven. And I had to explain, sweetheart, I didn't choose for this to happen. I didn't choose to be a survivor. All my girls have seen me in tears over the years because of all this. And they also know that it takes up a lot of time,

2 (2m 39s):
Right? Cuz she sees you counseling other people and talking to people about it and

3 (2m 44s):
Right. You know, I'll say, hold on honey, I'm, I'm on the phone with a survivor. I've got a, you know, advocacy meeting at one o'clock. You know, or whatever. And so they see it as taking time away from them, but they also see the emotional toll it can take.

2 (3m 4s):
Five years after the Me Too explosion, some powerful and well-known men lost their jobs. Few went to prison, over 20 states passed laws to make workplaces safer. Some change statutes of limitations so people have more time to report sexual harassment and assault. That changed, by the way, is why Eugene Carroll was able to sue former President Trump. Recently. Lots of employers adopted new HR policies, introduced more trainings. There was a bump in reporting for a while. But you know, we haven't heard that much about how all this had played out in the lives of the women who stepped forward. And when public with their stories. I and a few of my coworkers have been talking to women like that. And one of the things I thought was so striking was the small ways that the aftermath of coming forward continues to pop up in their daily lives.

2 (3m 49s):
For starters, a few of them told me that anytime they meet someone new, even years later, they do this calculation in their head. What do they know about me? What have they read? If anything, it's stressful. Take Tanya Stenna. She said she felt tremendous relief when she spoke out in 2018 about her abusive relationship with the New York State Attorney General Eric Schneiderman. And they stepped down hours after her story came out,

5 (4m 15s):
I didn't watch.

2 (4m 15s):
But in the time since then, she still gets reminded of it in certain kinds of social interactions.

5 (4m 21s):
One example is, I had gone on a few dates with a man who was wonderful and so kind. And we got together one night and he asked my how my day had been. And there was an essay I had written which had just come out in L Magazine. And he asked if he could read it. And as I was saying what I had been doing that day, I realized, oh wait, we haven't talked about my story cuz it's not something that I lead with. And he wanted to read it. And I said, sure.

5 (5m 1s):
And so then he looked it up and he read it. He sent me a beautiful note thanking me for sh sharing my story. And he sorry for what I went through. And then I never heard from him again.

2 (5m 14s):
What did you take from that?

5 (5m 16s):
You know, g Good guy. But my story made him uncomfortable. Like I, I hope that people recognize it was a sliver of my life. It was a short sliver of my life. And that there's a whole life before and after that that I have forged separate from that sliver

2 (5m 42s):
Coming around. We heard about women's switching careers buying into debt from legal fees, but we also heard specific things that were so individual to each person. An associate professor at Tufts Dental School reported a coworker and then after she met with her supervisor about it, and the way that the supervisor responded was so upsetting to her that now the clothes she wore to those meetings, she says, you can't wear those clothes anymore. Or even look at them. One woman, a wildland firefighter with the US Forest Service told us that she expected after she reported that her bosses would start training the staff differently. They didn't. So now that's something she does for her coworkers, kind of diy. Another woman, a truck driver in California, Lara Sunga came forward with the expectation that something would happen to the man that she reported when it didn't, when he kept his job, she shut herself in a room for a while, stop cooking for her three daughters, stop taking them out, stop being a mom.

2 (6m 35s):
They'd come to her door and she'd tell 'em to go make themselves cereal or a sandwich. She says it especially got the two older girls.

6 (6m 42s):
No, no, they're very shy. The two older ones are very shy. They don't wanna go nowhere. Somebody comes, they ring the doorbell, they run to the, they run to the room.

2 (6m 51s):
And they weren't like that before this.

6 (6m 54s):
No, somebody came over, they'll come out like nothing. No, they just wait for the people to leave. Yeah, they, they stick to themselves. I think they lost maybe some part of the childhood.

2 (7m 7s):
When Chanel Miller reported what happened to her, she ran up in front of a jury. There's a pretty well known case. She was known as Emily Doe and then came out with her name after Me Too happened, a swimmer at Stanford University named Brock Turner sexually assaulted her while she was unconscious. She'd been drinking at a party. And she says the experience of telling that story in a courtroom and stay with her in a bunch of ways, including this one.

7 (7m 31s):
If it's 10:00 PM in New York, which is pretty early for New York, and I'm trying to decide whether I'm going to take the subway or a taxi home in order to make that decision, I tell the story of the evening back to myself. So if I went to a book reading and had some champagne, I think, you know, I sound like a reasonable credible person. I'm going to take a risk and take the subway. The subway is assumed to be riskier than the taxi. If I went to a friend's birthday party and I was wearing a bear costume and drink Hennessy out of a coconut and won a hula hooping contest, I think, you know, that person sounds a little bit more unhinged.

7 (8m 14s):
I don't feel like explaining that to a jury. So I'm going to take a taxi.

2 (8m 19s):
Wow. Because you really play out the whole thing in your head as do I wanna say this in court someday? Yes.

7 (8m 26s):
Wow. And what's sad about that is that I am not thinking about my own safety. I am thinking about how to increase my chances of being believed.

2 (8m 43s):
Today on our show, we have the story of somebody who came forward and what happened to her next has never been told. In fact, she's only been known as Jane Doe. And she's remarkable in a few ways. First of all, she is so young, she's just a teenager, and she spoke out about one of the most powerful people in her state. And in this case, the story that the public knows is very, very different from what actually happened to her. In some ways, the public story is the opposite of her experience of it. M w Bez, Chicago's Sam, American Life, America Glass State stay with us. Equa the intern.

2 (9m 24s):
So the person our show is about today was a 19 year old intern in the Idaho State legislature. And I should say before I go any further, there was no way to discuss what happened to her without talking about sexual violence. Take that as a heads up. Fort Safa In 2021, this teenager reported that a state representative twice her age raped her. She came forward with her story and then so many things went differently than they would've before me too. Idaho State House had put in place a basic reporting system for complaints like this. The incident was investigated, there were consequences all within a month and a half.

8 (9m 59s):
Call the committee to order

2 (10m 0s):
The house put on a hearing. Thank you for came to a fast decision committee.

8 (10m 4s):
We have a motion, I'll summarize that motion. Our motion is that representative on Elinger should be censured with the following restrictions and conditions. One that he be immediately suspended without payer benefits. Two, that he must immediately vacate his office in the Capitol and not return to capitol grounds for the remainder of the 66th Idaho legislature. And three,

2 (10m 25s):
The committee vote was unanimous representative should be appointed. They then called for a vote from the full house to expel the representative. He immediately resigned. So you know, that's change right? Post Me too. State legislators talked about how proud they were of their ability to do the right thing so quickly, they praised their colleagues around the hearing as masterful what of our producers, Miki Meek watched all this happen back then and she had a question, namely, what was all this like for Jane Doe? Here's Miki.

9 (10m 57s):
I lived just south of Boise and the story of Jane Doe was all over the news. Mr. Chairman, there was a public ethics hearing in the Idaho House Chairman, I watched her answer questions. Did

10 (11m 6s):
You make a report to Boise Police Department? And on March 9th you had been raped by Representative von Ellinger? Yes.

9 (11m 13s):
The first thing I noticed, Jane Doe was young, just a teenager, just outta high school. And they had her behind these giant black curtains up on a deus at the very front of the room. These big black curtains that hung off some tall metal frames were supposed to shield her identity, which was weird because nothing was being done to disguise her actual voice. I couldn't stop thinking what is happening here? It felt very handmaid's tale like she was on trial.

10 (11m 41s):
Did you tell him to stop?

11 (11m 43s):
I said no.

10 (11m 45s):
Did you say other things that indicated No.

11 (11m 48s):
Multiple. Multiple different reiterations. I even tried to just convince him to not telling him I wasn't on birth control and I hadn't shaved myself for things to make me seem un appeasable, you know? And he just continued.

9 (12m 9s):
So that's a pretty intense thing to hear a teenager recounting behind a black curtain. Were you informed that the proceedings were, and then here's the part that really made me wonder what this was all like for Jane. Something happened after she finished her testimony. Thank you,

12 (12m 23s):
Michelle. You are excused.

9 (12m 25s):
After she exited the room, the mics picked up a faint scream. It was hers. Some of the representatives conducting the hearing looked around in confusion for a split second and then got back to work. Calling up witnesses solemnly

8 (12m 40s):
Swear that the testimony you'll give before

9 (12m 42s):
This committee watching this back in 2021, just four years after the Me Too movement broke. I assume Jane Doe was part of a younger generation of women who were reporting sexual violence, but who knows? She was literally invisible at the hearing. What was it like for her back behind that curtain and what was that scream? I wanted to find out more about what exactly happened to Jane Doe. I reached out to Jane Doe through her lawyers after the hearing to see if she wanted to share more. Five months later, I noticed a couple of missed calls on my phone. I called back, it was Jane.

9 (13m 23s):
She'd been calling me and not leaving messages, trying to reach me out of the blue because she worried I'd try to record our call without her knowing. She said she was feeling paranoid. When I finally met Jane in person, she was very direct. She'd been seeing all these people talking about her, and finally wanted to give her side of it. She had a lot to say about every part of the process that led her up to the seat behind the black curtain. She just turned 20. She was really funny. A total goofball. She has a membership at a trampoline gym. I

13 (13m 54s):
Go like four times a week. I love it there.

9 (13m 59s):
Her favorite, the dodgeball zone. And

13 (14m 1s):
I just love messing up kids. You

9 (14m 4s):
Been like nailing them with a

13 (14m 5s):
Ball. I love being a big sister. I don't get the chance to be a big sister a lot. So when I get a chance to just like go annihilate some little like nine year olds, I will. And they're always like, ah, like you got me. Like I love kids. You know, like they have

9 (14m 19s):
So many, Jane's a big sister to many younger siblings. She's always teasing them with fart jokes. But the main thing that really stood out to me about her is just how much she loves nerding out about the state legislature.

13 (14m 30s):
I have pictures like I would love to show you. I always have a bunch of pictures of the State house, like the state house. So pretty like

9 (14m 36s):
She pulled up a photo of the Idaho State flag hanging from the rotunda. You got

13 (14m 40s):
The tree, you got the deer. And I mean like, I think it's beautiful.

9 (14m 43s):
Her favorite pictures were of her cubicle, a big wood desk swivel chair and her own name plaque. And it

13 (14m 49s):
Was really funny too, like the sergeant at Arms put my name and all caps on it because she said then that people would find me easier. Have you

9 (14m 58s):
Ever had an office before?

13 (14m 59s):
No, I've never had my own office. I was shook. What did

9 (15m 4s):
You love about that?

13 (15m 6s):
Honestly, if I will just get straight to like really what it made me feel like. I felt like I was walking on gold, like literally my entire family. Like I'm the first one to ever work for the government, right? Like, I mean, yeah, I was just proud of myself.

9 (15m 23s):
The Capitol had been a surreal place for Jane to find herself in just a few years earlier. She was a pregnant high school freshman trying to figure her life out. She started making money by working field jobs on potato and corn farms and picked up a night shift at Pan Express as a sophomore. She enrolled herself in a special high school for teen parents and started volunteering in domestic violence shelters. She quickly became the kind of model overachiever who gets voted most likely to become president of the United States. When Jane was a senior in high school, she signed up to be a page in the Idaho House of Representatives. She ran errands for a special committee and was celebrated on the local news for it. The first teen mom to serve as a page in the state house.

9 (16m 5s):
Her work in domestic violence programs brought her here to learn more about the legislative process. And through Jane learned the steps on how to make a bill. And for fun, sat in on meetings of the Judiciary and Rules committee. She liked tracking all the different drafts of bills that got introduced and seen what happened to them. She'd grown up with an abusive dad and then had a boyfriend who was violent with her. Seen firsthand just how badly the criminal process worked for victims. She wondered why it wasn't better. And now that she'd seen the work of a lawmaker up close, she decided that's what she wanted for herself. So after the page program was over, after she graduated from high school, Jane decided she had to get back to the house.

9 (16m 46s):
She applied for an internship and to get it, she needed to find a representative who would sponsor her.

13 (16m 51s):
So I just reached out to everybody I could that I knew, you know? Yeah, because you could find their contact online, like you could find their email and stuff. So I just was like sending emails like, Hey, who'd you say? Well, I was like, hi. I don't know if you remember me, I was a page last year. I don't remember if you remember on your committee, blah, blah, blah, depending on who I was talking to. Yeah. But basically I'm just like, hey, you know, I'm really interested in coming back this year and learning more. I think I can benefit you and benefit me at the same time. I have a lot that I wanna learn. Like I, I was, I wanted, I wanted to be there, you know, like I wanted to learn.

9 (17m 27s):
She got an internship with a Republican representative, not Von Ellinger, the one she reported for raping her. It was another one. She started at the beginning of 2021, a desk of her own on the ground floor of the Idaho State Capitol. She felt like this was the beginning of something much bigger. Jane remembers running into Representative von Ellinger pretty soon after the 2021 legislative session started. She wasn't interning for him, he was just another Republican representative, a very new one. I reached out to Vaughn Ellinger and his lawyer for comment, but didn't get a response.

9 (18m 11s):
He hasn't been talking to the press. It was his first term in the house. He was a substitute teacher from Northern Idaho.

13 (18m 17s):
There was a few times when I'd walked outta committee and he was like there. And I just, you know, I, I smile and wave at everybody. And then he just kind of stared at me and I was like, I'm just gonna keep walking. And then I think the second time there was a bunch of people, like right where the entrance of to go get into my office. There's a bunch of people there. So I'm just kinda like lingering. And then Elinger was like, oh, ho ho who are you? I had my intern badge and he was just like, who, who do you intern for? And I was like, well, I'm just, you know, I have my own office over here. And

9 (18m 45s):
He was holding some cookies shaped like Idaho.

13 (18m 48s):
And I was like, oh, those are cool looking cookies. And he was like, oh, do you want them? And then I was like, sure. Like, I'm just gonna my office right now, I'll put 'em there. And he was like, okay. And just like follows me back. What

9 (18m 58s):
Did you make of that at the time?

13 (18m 60s):
Well, I mean, I wasn't too weirded out by it. I was just like, okay, like there's just another one of 'em. Like whatever. It's just another sir because it's, there's a lot of sirs in there. Okay, there's sirs everywhere. S i r. Yeah, sir. There's just, cuz you gotta say sir, how

9 (19m 15s):
Would you define what a sir is?

13 (19m 17s):
Like literally suits like men in suits?

9 (19m 20s):
Jane adds that sir is the kind of male representative who would text her late at night about a non-urgent work question who'd keep her in his office too long. And who she overheard talking with other sirs about whether she looked better in her tan skirt or her striped one. She told me there were a lot of sirs in the house. Sometimes she'd get this creepy feeling that they would look at her and think, wow, how exotic Jane's Hispanic. Many of the other women working in the Capitol were blonde and white. After Yvonne Ellinger gave her those Idaho shaped cookies, Jane says he was suddenly walking by her desk multiple times a day to make small talk. He gave her his phone number. Food seemed to be the main currency of flirting for a lot of the serves.

9 (20m 0s):
Jane says they were constantly offering her snacks for their mini fridges or dropping off lunch at times. All this free food was nice. Jane's internship was unpaid. She was supporting herself and her three-year-old son with a second job, she worked the overnight shift at a domestic violence shelter for $8 an hour. When Von Ellinger eventually asked her out to dinner, Jane says she initially felt reluctant, but talked about it with her friends who told her to go for the food. Remember she was 19, only a year out of high school. He was 38. Did you think of it as like, this is a date, this is a working dinner, this is something in between, or who knows?

13 (20m 38s):
I obviously knew that he was interested in me, but I more or less was like, well, he's gonna help me out. Like, because I told him all my interests, right? Like, I was like, I wanna work with the judiciary system, blah, blah, blah. And he's like, you know, I know these people and I could maybe, you know, connect you with you. Like he was, no, he didn't like promise anything, but he definitely was like, Hey, like I could help you out. And that's was my goal.

9 (21m 1s):
She wanted to grow her network. Van Ellinger picked Jane up after she'd finished her internship for the day in a bmw he borrowed from his roommate, then drove her to a steak restaurant downtown.

13 (21m 12s):
And then over dinner, he had made some weird like remarks. And then I was like, this is kind of weird. Like, what kind of remarks struck you as weird? Because he was like, I have a dry sense of humor. Like, what are you doing later? And I'm like, gonna go pick up my son, I guess. Like, I don't know, like, I'm just gonna go home. And he's like, oh, well I'm hoping to do you. And then he was just laughing and then he just like a, and then the waiter guy came up and I was like, okay. I just wanted to ignore it. Like, like the other things I'm just like, oh, just pretend I didn't hear that. Like, not to egg it on. I definitely wasn't trying to like, make it worse.

13 (21m 54s):
And then like, we were gonna leave and I was like, cool, I'm gonna go home.

9 (21m 60s):
Vinger was supposed to take her straight back to her car at the Capitol, but instead he made a detour to his apartment, supposedly to run a quick errand. This is probably evident, but a heads up that this is where the rape happens, and I'm gonna give some of those details. Jane gave me permission and felt it was important to lay out the specifics of what happened to her after he parked. Jane felt pressured to go in. She says he opened her car door and reached for her arm. She felt anxious knowing that he sometimes carried a handgun once inside his apartment. Jane tried to keep some distance. She went and sat on his couch, but he picked her up and carried her to his bedroom.

13 (22m 37s):
I wanted to run out of his, like I was envisioning myself running out of his room and like running down the hall, but it was just in my head like, I couldn't do it. What I, I don't know. Like my brain was shot, like I couldn't move. You know, you're paralyzed. Like, I can't move.

9 (22m 57s):
Jane kept saying no, but Von Ellinger forced his penis into her mouth. She pulled her head away so hard that it snapped back and hit the wall. He then climbed on top of her pinning one of her arms under his knee masturbating. Von Ellinger was over six feet, 200 pounds. Jane's five foot three.

13 (23m 15s):
I just stared at his curtains. They were so dark, like, like I called him American Red in my head is what I was naming him. Like, I, I was in disbelief. Like I, I said no, I, I said no. What, what was I supposed to do? Hit him? Was I supposed to attack him? Like he should have just gotten off of me? And he didn't. He just didn't. And I was so shocked.

9 (23m 47s):
Afterwards, she says, he told her when I'm at this point, I just become an out of control man. He then acted like nothing happened and drove her back to her car. Jane Doe had been assaulted by a state legislator. Now she had to try to figure out what to do next. Like the vast majority of sexual assault survivors. Jane decided she wasn't going to tell anyone. She wanted to get back to work. She tried to convince herself she was fine. But that plan fell apart when she showed up back at the Capitol for work just a couple days later.

13 (24m 24s):
And so I was on the ground floor going towards one of my offices and I seen him at the very end, like walking out of a committee room and I was like, I can't do this. I can't, I can't do this. When

9 (24m 34s):
You saw him, did he see you?

13 (24m 36s):
No. I was like, oh my gosh. I saw to hold on to the wall. I was like, like, you know, like in the middle of like a freaking panic attack. I was like not functioning. I couldn't function. I was scared. I was so scared. Like I went straight to Kim Blackburn.

9 (24m 57s):
Kim Blackburn, that's who she talked to, the assistant sergeant in Arms for the House. When Jane was a high school page the previous year, Kim was her supervisor. It was hard to find a private place to talk. So they walked out to the rotunda and sat on a bench facing that big Idaho state flag. Jane told Kim that Von Ellinger had raped her. Then she went to the bathroom and threw up.

13 (25m 19s):
Well, initially to even report, I was like, to convince myself, I was like, well, I am a citizen. I'm a constituent. I witnessed a crime brought by one of their legislators and I am giving that to the higher, higher up or whatever. You know what I mean? I'm reporting that because that's what a good Samaritan does. That's what you do. That's what you're supposed to do. And so I'm, me being a domestic violence, sexual assault advocate myself, what would I be telling a different 19 year old who got assaulted by a legislator? So I was like, cool. Not cool, but like cool. Like I will do this.

9 (25m 54s):
Like, I don't really want to do this, but I have to do

13 (25m 57s):
This. Oh yeah, why? Why would you wanna do that? Why would anybody wanna do that? Why would anybody choose to be like, yeah, take my life, right? And my whole life. So at that point I was like, fuck it, this is my job now.

9 (26m 13s):
This is where things started going differently than they would've in years past. At the Idaho capitol. Jane didn't know this, but when she told the supervisor about Bon Ellinger, she became the first person to publicly test out the legislature's brand new process for responding to sexual misconduct allegations. The assistant sergeant at Arms was now required to share Jane's report with one of the higher ups. She went to the top person in the house, the speaker who took it very seriously. Within minutes of receiving Jane's report, he notified the Attorney General's office who then notified the Boise Police. They took her to a victim center where a nurse gave her a rape kit exam. But Jane waffled about whether she wanted to move forward with a police investigation and decided she didn't wanna press charges.

9 (26m 57s):
She wanted to move on, focus on her work, and let the capitol deal with Bon Elinger. So another intern didn't get hurt. The new protocol at the Capitol landed with the ethics committee in the Idaho House. But then what, while the legislature had a way to respond to sexual misconduct complaints, it did not have any guidelines for how to conduct this kind of investigation. Representative Sage Dixon, a Republican from northern Idaho, chaired the ethics committee. He was the first one on it to see Gene's report.

8 (27m 25s):
It shocked me cuz I wasn't aware of any of that. So it was a lot to absorb. I was disturbed in thinking that this is quite possibly going to be something larger than we'd like it to be. As far as within Idaho,

9 (27m 39s):
Had you ever handled anything like this as a legislator?

8 (27m 41s):
No.

9 (27m 43s):
Most everything that happened next, Dixon and his committee had to make up. He had no training on how to run an investigation into a sexual misconduct complaint. His job outside of the house is running an electrical contracting business. So one of his first thoughts was, we should talk to Jane. Jane was at the Capitol when a secretary notified her to appear before the House Ethics Committee. She didn't know what to expect. So when she headed into that interview, she brought a lawyer who's also a sexual assault advocate.

13 (28m 11s):
And right before we walked in there, all we heard from that, that room, a burst of laughter. And so that already made me like, what the heck did you hear that me and my lawyer were like, are they laughing right now? What are they laughing about? Like, how did

9 (28m 25s):
That make you feel walking into that room?

13 (28m 28s):
I was more irritated, like, you know, more like confused, like kind of hurt, kind of felt judged.

9 (28m 37s):
Dixon says he doesn't remember what they were talking about, but was certain they weren't laughing about Jane. Once Jane walked in the room, she saw the ethics committee was made up of representatives. She saw all the time at her internship. She felt ashamed. They were seated around a long table. Three men and two women. She took a seat at the end, Dixon asked her to recount the night. Vinger raped her. But as soon as she got to the part about him climbing on top of her, Dixon stopped her. He said quote, I think maybe the committee's getting uncomfortable too.

13 (29m 8s):
At first I was just like, what did you say? Like, well, I didn't say that, but I was like, you are telling me that I'm making you uncomfortable. Like I, you're telling me, you are telling me I was assaulted sexually, but you are uncomfortable with this conversation. After you asked me to have this conversation, you asked me, you brought me here. You, you made this happen, and you're just gonna tell me to stop. What? Like, this doesn't, it made me so angry.

9 (29m 40s):
I read the transcript of this and later he said, please don't think that we're we're, I'm cutting you off because we don't wanna hear anything more. And so did that clarification make a difference to you? No.

13 (29m 51s):
No, in any way. Like that was a huge insult. You made me relive a horrible experience. And just tell me you're uncomfortable by it. I was so hurt. I was so hurt by Dixon because I know his son. I'm friends with his son. He was a page with me. Dang, you hurt me Dixon, you hurt me. You hurt me.

9 (30m 14s):
There are some well-established practices for interviewing sexual assault victims. Using trained investigators who know how to interview a victim without re-traumatizing them is one. And those investigators should be external and independent, not people who work together every day. I asked Dixon about that moment in the room. He told me after Gene left a Deputy Ag who was there, told them, you don't interrupt sexual assault victims in the middle of their story.

8 (30m 41s):
I could tell Jane Doe was getting visibly disturbed, and I didn't want her to be that way. So I told her, you don't need to answer anymore. Just that stop. We're done. We're fine. Trying to protect her the best way as a husband and a father that I would think to protect somebody that's vulnerable and having a hard time not knowing that dynamic. Now, now I know that it was hard at that point that it was one of the difficult things. So I, I apologized to her about that, that I'm sure that made it tougher.

9 (31m 7s):
The Ethics Committee doesn't investigate crimes. They had no protocol for what to do, but they did have this one thing, something that was clearly in the purview of the Ethics Committee conduct unbecoming was Representative von Ellinger conduct, conduct unbecoming. As they looked into it, reports started surfacing about other women he'd pursued and made uncomfortable in his very short time at the capitol, a journal clerk, a security guard, and the lobbyist who said he followed her to the bathroom. All of them were younger than him. The committee also discovered that the top leadership in the house knew about two of these reports. Instead of confronting vinger, they sent a representative to warn him to stop being quote, overly nice Dixon.

9 (31m 52s):
And the committee brought these allegations to him and gave Von Ellinger the chance to resign quietly and to avoid any public embarrassment. But he didn't step down. Instead, he told the committee he and Jane Doe had consensual sex to them. Pursuing a sexual relationship of any kind with an intern was not okay. It seemed like a clear violation of the rule conduct unbecoming. Since he refused to resign, the only option they had left was to convince two-thirds of the house that Von Ellinger had violated conduct unbecoming. Then they could get him expelled. But to do this, they'd have to hold a public hearing.

9 (32m 37s):
Once the hearing was announced, one of Vnet Langer's attorneys did something that shocked Jane and her lawyers. He released Jane's name to reporters. It ended up on a far right news site with her photo. Jane was no longer anonymous.

13 (32m 53s):
I'm just like, holy shit, my world's ending. Nobody would talk to me, nobody would even look at me in the eye anymore. I went from smiling and waving to everybody to nobody would look at me. And so then that's when I was really like, dang, they hate me. Like everybody in that state house just hates me.

9 (33m 9s):
An ally, Avan Elinger in the house went after Jane too. A then representative named Priscilla Giddings, she posted Jane's photo on Facebook and emailed a newsletter to her constituents calling Von Ellinger, Idaho's very own Kavanaugh and Jane, a honey trap out on a liberal smear job. The hearing she said was part of a national me too witch hunt. I reached out to Giddings, but she didn't respond. Jane tried to keep going to work, but she hated that every time someone looked at her, they thought about the rape. She couldn't function and needed to get out of the capitol back at home. All she could do to get through the day was sleep.

9 (33m 50s):
She couldn't keep food down and was failing all of her college classes except for one, a criminal justice course.

13 (33m 55s):
It was victimology. I'm not even kidding. I'm not even kidding. It was victimology that's, I was taking victimology all through that.

9 (34m 6s):
In victimology, one of the things they talk about is how victims are often re-traumatized by the very systems that are supposed to get them justice. If you're a victim of sexual violence, the trauma is about having no power. So any attempt toward justice, police court, or HR procedures should be designed to make sure the person feels a sense of control. For instance, before a victim even makes a report, they should know what all the possible steps of the process could be. That way they can decide if they still want to proceed. And if it's a workplace like the State House, you wanna give the victim the option to give their testimony in private instead of forcing them to retell and relive their assault in public.

9 (34m 48s):
In the Idaho House, the process wasn't designed with a sexual assault victim in mind. Instead, it looked a lot more like a regular criminal trial. Dixon talked a lot about von e Langer's right to defend himself. While Jane says she wasn't consulted about whether she even wanted to come to the hearing, they issued a subpoena for her to appear. I asked Dixon why he thought that was necessary.

8 (35m 11s):
We were subpoenaing other witnesses. And so to maintain that consistency, I think is why, and just that it didn't look like we were favoring one side or the other

9 (35m 20s):
Because it is a subpoena. If she hadn't appeared, then arrest is the consequence of that, right?

8 (35m 27s):
Yes. I don't think it, it's absolute that arrest is a consequence of that. If we wanted to take it to that end, we could have.

9 (35m 34s):
So if she hadn't come, I mean, I, what would've I,

8 (35m 37s):
I don't know. That's, that's tough because I feel it. She needed to be there for the face. Your accuser portion of it.

9 (35m 47s):
In the days leading up to the hearing, Jane's lawyer said they did everything they could to prevent the hearing from being a disaster for her. They asked if she could testify remotely and with her voice disguised, or even better in a closed session that wasn't open to the public. They said the answer they always got back from the attorney general's office was no. No one seems to have a clear answer on why this was one of the Deputy ags running. The case declined to comment. Dixon told me he never received her attorney's requests and says he would've been open to Jane testifying remotely. In the end, Jane's lawyer said the only protection that was offered up to her were those black curtains. She would tell her story in public behind a black curtain.

2 (36m 36s):
Mickey Meek coming up the hearing and the protective power of tennis shoes. That's in a minute. From Chicago Public Radio when our program continues,

0 (36m 48s):
Justin And so good thousands of summer deals at your Nordstrom Rack store. Save big on the season's best new arrivals from free people. Adidas, Kurt Geiger, London, Steve Madden, and more. Starting at just $30. Seriously. So rack your look for summer score, great brands and great prices at Nordstrom Rack today. Hurry in and get first dibs on the sun. Ready styles you want from just $30 at your Nordstrom Rack store. What will you find?

14 (37m 14s):
New York Times games make me feel like I'm amazing. Wordle

15 (37m 18s):
Makes me feel things that I don't feel from anyone

16 (37m 20s):
Else. I absolutely love Spelling Bee.

17 (37m 23s):
The Times Crossword puzzle is a companion that I've had longer than anyone outside of my immediate family. When

16 (37m 29s):
I can finish a hard puzzle without hints, I feel like the smartest person in the world. It gives

8 (37m 34s):
Me joy every single day.

18 (37m 36s):
Join us and play all New York Times games at

19 (37m 39s):
Ny times.com/games.

18 (37m 41s):
Subscribe by June 29th to get a special

2 (37m 45s):
Offer's American Life. Myra Glass. Today's program Jane Doe. Five years since Me Too blew up. And there are all these systems that are supposed to crank into action Now. When somebody steps forward, we have the story of Jane Doe, a teenager in Idaho. Now to be clear, Jane Doe did not come forward because of Me Too. Actually, when a producer Miki Meek astro about it, Jane said all she knew about me too is that it was something for celebrities. Nonetheless, the response to her was shaped by me too. She was a test case of the legislature's new reporting system that they were making up as they went. We pick up our story with Act two. The witness heads up. This part of the story contains brief references to suicide. Here's Miki.

9 (38m 26s):
The morning of the hearing, Jane woke up terrified. She had a full-blown panic attack and threw up. She jumped in the shower and put on beautiful by Eminem to try and pump herself up. She then put on a black dress. This was an inside joke to herself because she felt like she was about to attend her own funeral. Jane's mom picked her up and they headed to the capitol. Her lawyers told me that nobody came up with a secure plan to get her into the building without people seeing who she was. So one of her lawyers reached out to a senator who met Jane and her mom at a private entrance outside the Capitol. Then led them through a series of tunnels and some back hallways until Jane finally got to a door in the hearing room. She looked at the curtains and a random bronze statue of Abraham Lincoln's head.

9 (39m 10s):
Her chair was right in front of him. His

13 (39m 12s):
Eyes wouldn't move, you know, like he was just staring at me the whole time. And I was like, okay. It was just weird. It was just flat out weird.

9 (39m 21s):
What did you think when you saw that black curd?

13 (39m 23s):
Well, I was like, I can see through this. I can see everybody like they can see me. And I was kind of freaking out at first, but they really couldn't see me

9 (39m 33s):
From her side. The curtain looked more sheer. She looked through it to a room packed with legislators in press. The people who could actually see her though included five ethics committee members, their counsel, a secretary, two, deputy ags Van Ellinger attorney, and Vinger Jane had only seen him around the capitol a couple times since he raped her. Her black curtain was slightly open to give those people a line of sight on Jane during the hearing.

13 (40m 2s):
My body was not there. I just held so tight to my chair, just held onto it just so I had something.

9 (40m 11s):
And you knew they weren't gonna protect her voice going

13 (40m 13s):
Into it? No.

9 (40m 16s):
Jane's voice was live streamed. I don't know how to say today. The hearing was broadcast online.

20 (40m 20s):
I think we need to be able to cross-examine the, the accuser here

9 (40m 23s):
That's Van ER's attorney publicly cross-examining witnesses of sexual assault. It's certainly not best practice for this kind of thing. For instance, other state legislatures that have adopted procedures for handling complaints do not allow victims to be cross-examined in public. Certainly not by the perpetrators, but again, they had no process for this in Idaho. Sovan ER's lawyer adopted tactics out of a criminal trial. He predictably turned Jane into the defendant following the usual playbook that gets used on sexual assault victims. He cast her as mentally unstable in a flirt, which was a thing Jane had felt around the capitol ever since. She reported waer that she was being judged and cast.

9 (41m 5s):
In her words is a quote, gold digging crazy Mexican pothead Von Ellinger lawyer nitpicked tiny details to insinuate that maybe she was a liar.

20 (41m 16s):
I'm just wondering if you can just read that, just that one sentence.

11 (41m 19s):
On the night of March 10th, 2021, she met him downtown Boise.

20 (41m 23s):
Thank you. But it wasn't March 10th, 2021, was it? No. It was March 9th. Isn't that correct? Yes,

11 (41m 29s):
I told police that.

20 (41m 31s):
Okay. Why did you tell Ms. Blackburn that it was March 10? I

10 (41m 33s):
Didn't, I said the other night,

9 (41m 35s):
The supervisor who Jane had reported to is the one who accidentally made a mistake in her written report. Not Jane. Meanwhile, Von Ellinger barely spoke. He kept pleading the fifth when the ethics committee kept pointing out that this wasn't a criminal proceeding and it didn't apply, he still refused, instructed

20 (41m 54s):
Him not

9 (41m 54s):
To answer. What sucked up most of the time though, was the core of Van Langer's defense, which was essentially, this was not rape. We were dating a date, which is allowed. There's no anti fraternization policy in the Idaho State House. Have, again, here's his attorney.

20 (42m 10s):
Does Representative von Ellinger have any hiring or firing authority over you?

10 (42m 15s):
No.

20 (42m 16s):
Does Representative Von Ellinger have any supervisory authority over you?

10 (42m 21s):
No.

20 (42m 22s):
Okay.

9 (42m 22s):
He asked some version of this question more than 30 times to different witnesses.

20 (42m 27s):
Are you aware of any policy that would be violated by a representative having a relationship with an intern of the age of majority?

10 (42m 38s):
I I, I've seen nothing in policy. No.

20 (42m 41s):
Thank you.

9 (42m 42s):
He's basically saying, tell me where it says a powerful middle-aged legislator can't date a 19 year old intern and always got the same answer.

10 (42m 51s):
Written policy. No, not that I'm not, that I'm aware of. Absolutely not.

20 (42m 55s):
Okay.

9 (42m 56s):
Von ER's lawyer did the same kind of thing with the other woman who testified about Von ER's troubling behavior, behavior like a chief clerk who said one of her employees complained when Von Ellinger asked her out. His attorney's response to that was, she wasn't wearing a wedding ring, which of course has nothing to do with whether Bon Ellinger should have asked her out at work. His attorney charged ahead.

20 (43m 18s):
Ms. Mullin, in your experience, isn't wearing a wedding ring a generally accepted sign that a woman is unavailable?

10 (43m 26s):
It can be construed that way, but I don't think that that's a requirement to be unavailable. I

20 (43m 30s):
I I didn't ask if it was a requirement, is it completely unreasonable in your opinion? For an individual who is interested in a woman to notice that she is not wearing a wedding ring and assume he's permitted to ask her a question?

10 (43m 46s):
I don't think a, a wedding ring is indicative of whether or not you can ask a woman a question.

9 (43m 51s):
This is an absurd thing to argue, but he's also arguing inside an absurd, incoherent set of rules. The Idaho legislature has a process for reporting sexual harassment, but not actually a policy against it. And the rules for the Senate and the House, they don't have an anti fraternization policy, but they have rules about decorum, rules for bidding, smoking, drinking, and eating on the house floor. A rule about conduct, unbecoming of a state legislator, but nothing for sexual harassment. The part of the hearing I'd always wanted to know more about ever since I first saw it, was What happened when Jane finally walked away from that black curtain?

9 (44m 36s):
She sat behind it for 40 minutes answering questions.

8 (44m 39s):
Thank you, Michelle. You are excused.

13 (44m 41s):
I freaking lose it. I lose it. I, I, and then like, I was just angry. I was like, I'm gonna get outta here. I'm like, I don't wanna be here anymore. You think I wanna help you?

9 (44m 51s):
Jane told me that when she stood up to leave, she had a panic attack. There was a private exit she was supposed to go out of, but she was so upset that she pushed through the wrong door and landed out in a public hallway. That's when that scream came out of her.

13 (45m 8s):
You just start running up the hallway and that's when I heard, like people behind me,

9 (45m 14s):
Some of Von Ellinger supporters, all women followed her out into the hallway. There was a local reporter with them too. They crowded around her and started filming Jane with their phones.

13 (45m 24s):
I, I broke. I broke, I, I screamed. I screamed a lot like screaming how much I was gonna kill myself. All I wanted to do was get to the top of the building.

9 (45m 35s):
She was trying to get to a balcony in the rotunda to throw herself off. Her lawyers blocked her. Jane collapsed on the ground. Her mom held her while her lawyers pulled out an umbrella and opened it to try and block her face from the people filming her. It took several minutes before security at the Capitol finally showed up and escorted Jane out of the building. The hearing lasted two days. At the end of the second day, the committee recommended to expel him. He resigned. Just hours later, representative Dixon head of the ethics committee saw this as a successful outcome.

9 (46m 15s):
I told Dixon how traumatizing the whole experience was for Jane and what happened after she ran out of the hearing room. I mean, if that's what the consequences were for her, for showing up in public, for testifying in public. I mean, is it, yeah. Was it worth having her be in public like that?

8 (46m 31s):
Probably not. But again, this is, it was all new to us as a committee, not being familiar with, with that trauma and how it expresses itself in people. We had no idea and, and did everything we thought we were doing correctly to protect her. But I think we could have gone on without that because we did have her previous testimony that we could have brought up and, and had or showed everybody. We had the, the transcripts that we were able to show to the body, which again, was important to me so that they knew what we had known and that probably would've sufficed.

9 (47m 4s):
This of course, is impossible to know. Another member of the ethics committee told me they thought without Jane's testimony in person, Boninger would still be in the legislature. I mean, is there anything that you would want her to know or thinking? Well, just,

8 (47m 17s):
I'm very sorry if we increased that trauma or that we did. Cuz it never was our intent. I know each one of those members feels very strongly that she was wronged and, and wanted to protect her, but just due to our inexperience, things didn't come out. Maybe as cleanly as they could have.

9 (47m 40s):
So what happened to Jane after all of that? She never finished the internship. She loved at the Capitol and after the hearing, never went back to her office with her name in all caps. Five months after the hearing, she was cleaning houses and she was a wreck. She'd lost 20 pounds. She couldn't stop replaying the assault and the hearing in her head. So much of her day-to-day now was a physical battle. She was dealing with severe p s D

13 (48m 7s):
Just going on the freeway and you would see the tip of the capitol. Like my body would just like, like immediately, just like when you're falling, can you imagine just that moment, like just staying in that my body is just in a state of shock. You know, like, like Frozen.

9 (48m 25s):
She was still getting harassed by Vinger sympathizers who continued to publish her name online. Random strangers had shown up at her old apartment asking questions. There was even a man who'd show up at Boise political events mocking her dress as a woman wearing a sash with Jane's real name on it. There were also people who sympathized with her too. And that was also hard when she was out in public, she never knew when someone was going to try and approach her.

13 (48m 52s):
Like people are like, oh, are you Jane Doe?

9 (48m 56s):
Where does this come up? When

13 (48m 58s):
Do you get recognized? I, I, so I went to a job fair, okay? And there's just a bunch of, you know, boosts with people and you just go to the next one. And this one lady, I went up to one and I was like, you know my name <unk> worked here and here, blah, blah, blah. I think I'd be, you know, I'd like to take an application. And she's just like, her eyes were already watering that. She was already like crying. And she's like, miss, did you, are you Jane Doe? What did you say? I was like, fuck. But I was like, yes, yes ma'am. Like, yeah. And she's like, oh my gosh, like I watched that blah, blah blah.

13 (49m 39s):
Like, and then I was recognized again at the Walmart and that lady recognized me by my face. You know? And then, then that's when a lot of people try to share their freaking rape stories and you're just like, I, I really don't wanna hear that. Like, I'm still recovering from my own. Like, why would you share that? So, not that I don't, not that I don't care per se, right? But I don't care. I don't wanna hear it.

9 (50m 3s):
Jane started talking about herself in the past tense. I was high energy, I was spunky, I was funny. And her plans felt past tense too. She no longer talked about being a lawmaker. She was sure she could never set foot back in the capitol and was thinking about moving out of state. The State House had a process to take her seriously when she reported Juan Ellinger. But after that they had nothing. Jane felt like they weren't concerned with what the experience did to her.

13 (50m 31s):
They just needed my testimony. They needed to do this cuz they needed to do their jobs. Like they didn't really look at me as a human. They were just, oh, well she reported this so she has to do this, so might as well just fucking make her right. I guess what it felt like that they only needed me to get this process going. Like they didn't consider anything else. And so that, I mean, that's where I, it gets me like, I mean, what would you do? What would you have done if I was your kid? What would you have made sure happened if I was yours?

9 (51m 7s):
All Jane had wanted to do was work at the capitol. But after she got doxed, she said everyone there who'd talked to her about job opportunities went silent to make money. She started helping her step dad out at his plumbing business and picked up work as a caregiver at a memory care facility. And then one year after the ethics hearing, Jane got a rare sort of do-over of the entire ordeal with Von Ellinger. The district attorney in the county for Boise charged him with felony rape. This happened because after she got doxed, Jane told the police she cooperate with the criminal case. She was so scared all the time. She felt like she had to, for her own protection.

9 (51m 47s):
This time things went very differently. The prosecutors handling her case understood that they needed to deal with her with care. They walked her through each step. So she always knew what to expect. They did not subpoena her. They intentionally built a whole case where she didn't have to take the stand. They had other witnesses like the nurse who did Jane's rape kit exam. But Jane decided that she did want to testify against Van Elinger. A sheriff picked her up in an unmarked car and drove her to a secret courthouse entrance. She had a therapy dog named Yuko in the courtroom, and the victim witness coordinator by her side. I was there sitting a couple rows behind Von Ellinger.

9 (52m 27s):
But even with all that support, watching Jane on the stand that day was harrowing. She looked like she was having an out-of-body experience. She stared at him blankly and could barely talk. When she tried to answer questions about how he'd raped her, she suddenly stopped. She pushed her chair away from the mic, stood up and said, I can't do this. She walked out of the courtroom.

13 (52m 49s):
So I ran out of the room. Yeah. And immediately fell down a flight of stairs like, that sounds stupid, but I did. And I don't know what in my mind, like I just needed to run. And then I, I ran across front street. I ran across Myrtle, which is the big rose, big busy roads downtown Boise, four lanes. I was trying to go to the bridge, okay. In my brain, that's where I was going. But my ankle was getting to me

9 (53m 16s):
The bridge. She says, because maybe she could jump. She was having a post-traumatic reaction. Same as at the hearing. Jane's first instinct was to do what she hadn't been able to do. The night she was raped, run away. She torn a tendon and leaned up against a tree. One of her attorneys named guy followed her out to try to calm her. Guy says, when the police showed up, one of them grabbed her arm and dropped her to the ground. Jane was so distraught, she doesn't remember that there

13 (53m 44s):
Was so many people. There was like nine different officers on me. And I was just on the floor just screaming and like hitting my head over and over. And I looked over, and I'll never forget this, and I seen guy on his hands and knees.

9 (53m 57s):
He was crying

13 (53m 58s):
And he was like shaking his head and I don't know what about that hurt me. And I stopped for a second.

9 (54m 7s):
During this brief pause, the police put a full body restraint, wrap a helmet in handcuffs on Jane. They put her in a squad car and transferred her to a hospital for psychiatric care. She spent three days there. When she was released, her mom picked her up. As soon as they pulled on the freeway, a text showed up on her mom's phone.

13 (54m 28s):
And then she like, she's like, do you wanna read that? And I'm just like, okay. And like, I have a smoothie in my hand. Like

9 (54m 38s):
It was a text from one of Jane's attorneys. The jury in Van Langer's trial had just come to a verdict.

13 (54m 43s):
And, and she said that he was found guilty.

9 (54m 46s):
And what was, what did that feel like?

13 (54m 49s):
I didn't believe it. I was like, no way. What?

9 (54m 53s):
Why didn't you believe

13 (54m 54s):
It? Nobody thought that he would've, oh, just to slap on the wrist. He's gonna get, cuz he's a good old boy or what. There were so many comments. When do you get to hear about a f Like, you know, a full, like a prosecuted, convicted, you know, for what they did. And he got that. You know how lucky I am?

9 (55m 15s):
It's true. Jane is the best case scenario for what a rape survivor can get. Van Elinger was kicked outta the Idaho Capitol a month and a half after she reported he was arrested and a judge sentenced him to 20 years in prison. Less than 3% of sexual assaults ever result in a conviction or incarceration. But the lived reality of best case scenario for Jane hardly feels like a win. Vinger still maintains he did nothing wrong. He's appealing his conviction to the state Supreme Court. His sympathizers continue to harass her and she regularly sees a psychiatrist and a therapist for P T S D. She takes ice baths a few times a week to shock herself into feeling like she's back in her body.

9 (56m 5s):
More than two years after the ethics hearing nothing is preventing another Jane Doe from going through almost the exact same process she did. This really gets to her. The Idaho House and the Senate still have not adopted a sexual harassment or anti fraternization policy into their rules. They also haven't adopted a specific process for how to investigate future reports of sexual misconduct. There are state legislatures that have adopted some best practices. Oregon offers confidential counseling for victims to help them decide what kind of action they wanna take. And New York and Oregon use independent external investigators. Neither state requires victims to retell and relive their assault in public.

9 (56m 47s):
The one improvement Dixon and other ethics committee members did make is stronger confidentiality protections for anyone who reports. So anyone who releases a victim's name could face consequences. But at the same time, the committee also decided they can cover the legal fees of lawmakers accused of sexual harassment or assault. This is where we are more than five years after Me too. More awareness. There's a problem, a more immediate sense that you should care and respond when someone reports. But nobody's invented new systems where what a victim actually wants and needs is at the center.

9 (57m 31s):
The Idaho legislature isn't so different from state houses all over the country, including the very highest levels of the US government. Three of the past five presidents have been accused of inappropriate behavior from unwanted touching to rape. And more than three decades after Anita Hill first testified about Clarence Thomas, the US Senate in house still do not have a clear, independent process for investigations. I recently listened to a conversation between Hill and Christine Blasey Ford about their experiences testifying in front of the Senate Judiciary Committee. In it Hill said that she rejects the idea that things will change if more people come forward and speak up.

9 (58m 11s):
She says it's the other way around. More people will come forward if the systems are better. A little while ago, Jane stepped back into the Idaho Capitol for the first time since the hearing, not for a new job. She says a representative called her out of the blue and invited her to a meeting with some other lawmakers. They wanted her input on better processes for sexual harassment and assault victims.

13 (58m 41s):
Part of me was excited, part of me like still admired the State House.

9 (58m 47s):
What was the other part of you?

13 (58m 49s):
Flat. Just scared, like confusion, like scared. I don't want to, I don't want to, I don't want to. Very scared. Like I made sure I had running shoes on. I made sure I had like, like stretchy pants, you know,

9 (59m 3s):
So that you were ready to just

13 (59m 4s):
In case I need to run, like just take precautions. I had somebody, you know, on stand standby in case I needed to like get picked up.

9 (59m 14s):
Now more than two years out from the hearing, Jane's been back at the capitol more than a dozen times. Yeah, she says sometimes she gets random stares from lobbyists. Her male representatives who won't look her in the eye.

13 (59m 25s):
You know

9 (59m 25s):
What do, but she doesn't care.

13 (59m 27s):
Get in.

9 (59m 27s):
In January, she went to the inaugural ball, held in the rotunda of the capitol. What was it like?

13 (59m 33s):
It was fun. I mean, I didn't wear heel. They did still wear like flats purposely. Yeah.

9 (59m 39s):
She pulled up a video on her phone,

13 (59m 43s):
You know, the stairs speaker,

9 (59m 46s):
The rotunda's all lit up.

13 (59m 47s):
Yeah. And it was like just all fancy, like, it was just so cool. Then I danced. I danced with some people.

9 (59m 54s):
A representative encouraged her to take a picture back on the house floor.

13 (59m 57s):
Literally I'm in the speaker's spot in the house holding the gavel. Just, she's like, pose, pose for me.

9 (1h 0m 5s):
I like saw you two years ago and you were just like, I can't go back there. And now you've got a gavel. I

13 (1h 0m 10s):
Know, right? And I wish that, like, I wish things turned out differently.

9 (1h 0m 19s):
Dane's thought about how different things might be the alternate life she'd have. If the rape had never happened, she'd still be working at the Capitol instead of our stepdad's plumbing company. Maybe she'd be an ata. She popping into committee meetings for things she wants to learn more about, like health and welfare or state affairs. Instead, she's here somewhere between where she intended to be in the very dark place she's been in for the last couple years. She's just now returning to her original plans.

13 (1h 0m 48s):
I'm going to be a lawmaker. You know, I'll never be a, I will never have shame walking into that building anymore going forward. Hell no. Hell no. I'm a multi-generation Idahoan. You know, my mother is here and my siblings are here. My son is here. I am here. No way you're gonna oust me from I pay my taxes. Like this is our building,

9 (1h 1m 10s):
Jane's mapping outer path back, pta, city council, and then the State House.

2 (1h 1m 28s):
Nikki Meek is a producer on our show. If you've experienced sexual assault and wanna talk to somebody, you can reach out to the National Sexual Assault hotline. 1-800-656-HOPE. If you're having thoughts of suicide call the National Suicide Prevention Hotline. You do that by dialing nine eighty eight on your phone. That's it. Just nine eighty eight. Fiona Apple recorded this for us.

22 (1h 2m 1s):
You've heard of the Wonders. It's beautiful valleys and hills. The majestic forests were nature bones. We love every nook. And, and here we have to in the sunlight and romance name singing.

22 (1h 2m 46s):
Singing all. There's truly one state in this great land of ours where ideals can be the pioneers made it.

22 (1h 3m 29s):
So for you and me, a legacy will always. And here we have winning the way to fame. Silver and Bold in the sunlight, please and her name singing.

2 (1h 4m 21s):
Okay, so I know that we could have ended the show right here with this song. And in fact, we did plan on ending it right here. But then last week I did this one more interview that just got to those of us who were putting together the show. And it's an interview with somebody who Jane Doe has been thinking about a woman who for a while was known as Emily Doe. And so here is just one more thing before we go today. This is act three. Do me do. Okay. So while Miki was talking to Jane for this story, Jane was reading this book called Know My Name and Know my name was written by a survivor who had been anonymous for several years and then came out with her name.

2 (1h 5m 2s):
This is somebody who we had actually one quick quote from in the top of the show. Chanel Miller is her real name. Stanford swimmer Brock Turner sexually assaulted her in 2015. And then she wrote this victim impact statement as Emily Doe. And this statement went online. Millions of people read it, 18 members of the House of Representatives, Democrats and Republicans took turns reading it out loud in Congress. It was a thing. And Jane Doe is thinking these days about whether she wants to come out with her real name. And so I talked to Chanel Miller about how she decided to do that. And also what it was like for her to be anonymous as Emily Doe for so long before she did.

7 (1h 5m 43s):
In those four years, less than 10 people in my life knew. And at the time it was cool that I had the power of invisibility. But long term what's not cool is when you can't turn the invisibility off. Because if you're always invisible, then you just start to slowly dissolve. And just to be in the world and leave such a big part of me at home every day led to such a fragmented experience by the end.

2 (1h 6m 19s):
Did Emily Doe seem like a person who is separate from you in some way?

7 (1h 6m 24s):
Oh, yes. Yes.

2 (1h 6m 27s):
Say more about that.

7 (1h 6m 31s):
Well, she's sort of like a beacon and she's very bold. Emily Doe was just this unshakeable, clear-headed person who didn't take anything from anybody. And I don't know, I I'm, I am not confrontational. You have to understand, like in my book, I talk about how when I'm handed change at the grocery store, I just throw it in my bag because I don't wanna hold anybody up. I get so nervous if I'm at a cafe and I have to ask the barista the wifi password rather not, I'll figure out a way to work without internet for an hour. And so in my day-to-day life, I'm someone who is very shrunken most of the time.

7 (1h 7m 16s):
And it takes a lot to be able to assert myself. I think what's incredible about Emily Doe is that she, she can show up when she needs to. Huh?

2 (1h 7m 26s):
Emily Doe takes a stand. Yes. Emily Doe asks for the wifi password.

7 (1h 7m 32s):
Yeah. Yes.

2 (1h 7m 35s):
And so you're reading about this Emily Doe who seems so amazing and it doesn't feel like you,

7 (1h 7m 42s):
Emily Doe I don't think is allowed to make a lot of jokes. Like she exists in a space that has a, that can be sensitive where you wanna be really conscious of what you're saying. You want to take care of people. Even now when people, people will sometimes see me on the street and burst into tears. And I don't know what that is, but I, I just, anytime somebody gives me a compliment, I imagine Emily Doe is this like statue and they give me a flower and I walk over and put the flower at her feet and then I come back to myself.

2 (1h 8m 17s):
So, so the next thing I wanna do is something unusual. Jane Doe from our story has read your book. She read it with interest and she sent these next questions Okay. That she would love to hear your answers to. Okay. Okay. First one, when did you know, you can totally see where she's coming from in this question too. When did you know that you were emotionally and mentally ready to put your real name out there? What were the signs that you were seeing in your own life telling you that you were ready?

7 (1h 8m 51s):
There were so many things I thought were impossible at the beginning that have now become ordinary. And I want her to know that for herself. So I couldn't even verbalize what had happened to me when I was alone in a therapist's office and I wore a jacket. This

2 (1h 9m 13s):
Is at the beginning.

7 (1h 9m 14s):
This is at the very beginning. I, I had poor jacket with sleeves that covered my hands. And now I can walk in, in a regular afternoon, make a recording that'll go out to millions of people. And afterward I will move on to something else

2 (1h 9m 33s):
Quo. Didn't you be talking about this interview we're doing right now? Correct?

7 (1h 9m 35s):
Yeah. But this will not sink me. And by the end, I could get back on my feet so quickly. And so I thought, I don't have to be afraid anymore that something is going to blindside me.

2 (1h 9m 49s):
And that's when you knew that you were emotionally and mentally ready to put your name out there.

7 (1h 9m 54s):
Yes. I can do this.

2 (1h 9m 56s):
Jane do's next question for you is, what's the pros and cons list you made before you came out with your own name?

7 (1h 10m 4s):
Okay. Cons. Cons Is that anytime you are Googled it is the first thing that comes up. It'll be the first thing everybody sees you. As pros. Pros, I get to be in rooms with people again.

2 (1h 10m 26s):
What does that mean?

7 (1h 10m 27s):
I'm like, I don't have to be lonely anymore. I was so lonely. It's so lonely to be hiding this much. Like it's so isolating.

2 (1h 10m 41s):
Other cons,

7 (1h 10m 43s):
Feeling exposed. Like it felt like I was in this storm and I had a little tarp covering me. And at any moment the wind was going to rip the tarp off and I'm just clenching it down all of the time. And so when it finally rips off, you're like, okay, now I can just give into it. I can get soaked and see where we go from here.

2 (1h 11m 13s):
Are there any other pros or cons?

7 (1h 11m 18s):
You know, it is hard. Like every time I'm introduced there's a trigger warning and I think that's, there'll probably be one at the top of this episode and everything.

2 (1h 11m 30s):
Wait, you mean every time you're introduced you mean on the radio or something like that? Or not

7 (1h 11m 34s):
An event? Like at an

2 (1h 11m 36s):
Event.

7 (1h 11m 36s):
Yeah. This, this may be really distressing and I'm sitting there like, what am I about to do to these people?

2 (1h 11m 43s):
So

7 (1h 11m 44s):
I, I want to be introduced and not have to warn people that I'm about to start speaking, you know?

2 (1h 11m 51s):
Okay. This is our last question from Jane Doe. Okay. Who is Emily Doe to you now? Is she gone?

7 (1h 12m 3s):
Mm, she's there. She'll definitely always be there. Be

2 (1h 12m 9s):
There as a separate person from you still? Yes. Really?

7 (1h 12m 13s):
Yeah. She's a statue.

2 (1h 12m 15s):
I thought you might say that. Like you have now. You've integrated her, she's now part of you.

7 (1h 12m 20s):
Oh yeah. I think in the beginning interviews I said that because it sounds very harmonious,

2 (1h 12m 27s):
But it's not true.

7 (1h 12m 29s):
The, the experience is integrated.

2 (1h 12m 33s):
Okay. All right. Noted. That's a lie. Let's move on. She's still out there.

7 (1h 12m 40s):
Yeah. I can summon her.

2 (1h 12m 49s):
Chanel Miller. Chanel Miller's book again is called Know My Name. She's also a visual artist. She did the show Art for today's episode that you can see at her website. What program is produced today by Nicki Meek and Valerie Kipp. Edited by Haja Wal people will put together today's program include Chris Bender via Ben and Zoe Chase, Sean Cole, Michael of Kornfeld, El Mustafa, stone, Nelson, Katherine Rayo, Sarah Par, NAIA Raymond. Laura Chesky. Lily Sullivan, Francis Swanson. Christopher. So Marisa Robertson Texter, Matt Tierney, Julie Whittaker and Diane Wu are managing editor Sarah Abdurahman, our senior editors, David Kestenbaum, our executive editors Manuel Berry.

2 (1h 13m 37s):
Special thanks today to Annie Hightower, Erica Birch, Melissa Aang, Lindsey Meyer, our Cassidy, Kelly Boyle, Rachel Desel Myers. Maria Patrick from the National Women's Law Center, Rebecca Traister, Rick Rossin, Pilar Melendez, James Dawson, Robin Simeon, Andy Slater in the Dart Center for Journalism and Trauma. The musicians who play with Fiona Apple, Amy Wood, David Garza, Sebastian Steinberg and John Wood. Our website, this american life.org, this American Life is delivered to public radio stations by prx, the Public Radio exchange. Thanks as always to program's co-founder Mr. Tori Meia. He's been training at a boxing gym doing some sparring. I keep telling him, stick to your own weight class.

2 (1h 14m 20s):
What do you want? Listen.

13 (1h 14m 21s):
So would I get a chance to just like go annihilate some little like nine year olds? I will.

2 (1h 14m 26s):
I'm Arrow Glass. Back next week with more stories of this American life.

2 (1h 15m 14s):
Next week on the podcast of this American Live in these dark combative times, we attempt the most radical counter programming we could think of delight.

24 (1h 15m 23s):
Guess what I'm waiting for for my bus.

2 (1h 15m 28s):
For instance, a five year old who gets to ride the school bus for the very first time. Oh man,

24 (1h 15m 33s):
That's my bus.

2 (1h 15m 37s):
An hour of delight. Next week on the podcast, we're on your local public radio station.