Polestar – Electric cars (0s):
Support for This American. Life comes from the Pole Star three. Designing an s u V for the electric age means redesigning what an S U V can be. Introducing the Pole Star three designed to go farther with up to 300 miles of range designed to entertain with its 25 Speaker, Bowers and Wilkins audio system designed to look and sound like nothing else on the road Pole. Star three, the SUV for the electric age. Visit polestar.com to learn more and design yours today,

1 (32s):
Dad. And what we're gonna do is we're gonna go through this thing and they'll be stopping and starting. Hello? Yeah,

2 (36s):
I'm, I'm here.

1 (37s):
Okay. Hi. Hi. They'll be stopping and starting, and if, basically, if you feel like saying anything you want over the course of this, it'll be better if you just jump in and say it. Okay. Okay. For Father's Day this year, it seemed fun to rerun this episode from the earliest days of our radio show. This is an episode that I co-hosted with my dad, and this was made so long ago that my father in this recording, he's the same age that I am right now in 2023 as I'm saying these words to you. Okay, so Dad, so you have the script.

2 (1m 8s):
I have the script.

1 (1m 10s):
And have you been practicing

2 (1m 12s):
Like crazy?

1 (1m 15s):
Can I hear just a little sample of you reading something? Sure.

2 (1m 19s):
From WB, e z Chicago. It's This American Life, the Father's Day edition.

1 (1m 24s):
Dad, you are such a pro.

2 (1m 34s):
I haven't done this in 40 years. It brings back all kinds of memories.

1 (1m 38s):
Now you better explain to our radio listeners in what context you actually sat in front of a radio microphone, dad.

2 (1m 43s):
Well, it was around 1955 or 1956 when I graduated from Maryland. And instead of getting an honest job, I went to work in radio.

1 (1m 55s):
So here's, here's a tape of what you sounded like back in 1956 on the radio. Oh,

2 (1m 59s):
Please, please don't play that tape.

1 (1m 60s):
This is three years before I was born and you're just, you're just a kid in this recording. You are 23 years old.

4 (2m 7s):
The personal problems and worries have you done? Are you disturbed by business problems, marriage problems, or emotional problems? See, Mrs. Kay, reader and advisor, Mrs. Kay, formerly of Europe, gives you a reading and answers all your questions for just $1 and you'll feel much better.

1 (2m 23s):
How could somebody, Ted, how could somebody who's charging a dollar for a reading even afford to buy a radio ad?

2 (2m 29s):
Well, look, she's been to Europe and she got her education there, so they must have taught her something over there.

1 (2m 38s):
So, so now at some point you gave up your career, your burgeoning career in radio really, before it took off the ground. And that was because

2 (2m 45s):
It was nothing important. It was something called making a living.

1 (2m 48s):
Right? And so now you're a certified public accountant living in Baltimore,

2 (2m 51s):
Right? Right.

1 (2m 53s):
Well, let me say this. Let me give a little explanation that we try to give each show for new listeners. Each week in our program, we document stories of life in these United States using all the tools of radio, storytelling, documentaries, monologues, found tapes, anything we can think of. And today for Father's Day, my co-host will be my own father, Barry Glass, certified public accountant. And

2 (3m 15s):
It's a real kick to do this.

1 (3m 16s):
I know this is our little Father's Day adventure together.

2 (3m 18s):
You could have bought me a tie.

1 (3m 31s):
Dad, I want, why don't you read the billboard?

2 (3m 33s):
Our program today will have four acts, Act One, Sandra Singh Loh finds out that the world sees her father very differently from the way she sees him.

1 (3m 42s):
Act Two. And if that diamond ring don't shine. Ian Brown talks about everyday moments that test any Father

2 (3m 48s):
Act Three. The moment dad left

1 (3m 51s):
Act Four reconciling with dad

2 (3m 53s):
The story from playwright Bo O'Reilly.

1 (4m 5s):
So dad, take us, take us into Act One, will you please

2 (4m 8s):
Act One How the world sees your father.

1 (4m 12s):
So dad, our first story today is from Los Angeles. It's from Sandra slo, as you said at the beginning of the show in the billboard when she was growing up, her father was, was not, he was not a fun dad. He himself had been orphaned in Shanghai when he was 12. He was raised in poverty, and because of that, he was just this, this penny pincher doesn't even capture it as miserly. They didn't celebrate Christmas. He never took his children to Disneyland, even though it was less than an hour away from their home. There were no real vacations. Sandra tells this story once. She bought a book of Charlie Brown comics for a dollar at a book fair, and her father threw it across the room, furious at how she had wasted money.

1 (4m 52s):
He, he was really strict, but as Sandra found out recently, not everyone in the world sees her father the way she does.

5 (4m 60s):
There's a kind of news that you're never prepared for. And here last week was mine. A friend told me that incredibly, a local grunge band had composed a rock anthem about my dad and was performing it to great response in Malibu area clubs. The group in question was called Boy Hits Car. And the song, A Wailing Rock Creed occur powered by Pearl Jam, like riffs, was In fact called Mr. Loh. The actual cover of the Boy Hits car demo Tape was a grainy xeroxed photo of a tiny wizen. 76 year old Chinese man grinning on a Malibu beach in tattered swim trunks, which was Indeed. My father, I have to admit, however, that the Mr.

5 (5m 42s):
Loh in this song was not one I was familiar with a scene through the eyes of lifeguard slash singer Craig Rondell. Mr. Loh is a mystical, dreamy figure who swims naked among the dolphins in the duality that characterizes certain types of rock poetry. I'm reminded of the doors, the natural dance Mr. Loh does on the beach, brings the listener comfort, while at the same time poses a profound spiritual challenge.

6 (6m 8s):
Mr. Loh afraid naked. But the things I today, so

5 (6m 31s):
My first instinct was that this had to be a sick Freudian joke. One of my siblings was playing on me as in what is the most wildly unlikely, most fraught with amazing ironies, most wacky sixties Peter Sellers film thing you can imagine could happen to our family. But no, my father was these Malibu surfers Eggman, he was their walrus. I decided to meet them. Craig Rondell, bass player, Scott Menville and guitarist Louis Lenard were all too happy to come into a studio and explain how their song came to be.

7 (7m 3s):
There was one day at the beach and there was about five of us just sitting in the sand just talking. Mr. Loh came casually walking up and, and he was standing there for just maybe three seconds without saying anything. And we were kind of like, okay. And then he said, you're all victims of modern technology, you know? But I, I started thinking, I was like, wow, that's, you know, deep. And then they just started to talk to us. He would sing, you know, throughout the conversation he would start singing. And so that's where the song the premise kind of came from.

5 (7m 59s):
Do you remember when you first saw my father? Go

8 (8m 2s):
Ahead Scott. I, I remember these guys probably have earlier memories, but it was in 1978 after the big fire came, our house burned down and we moved to Malibu West. And I remember seeing Mr. Loh stretching naked and then taking a shower outside, naked and at the beach. At the beach. And I thought it was kind of like funny, but like, not in a bad way. I thought it was interesting. That was my first memory. Okay.

9 (8m 25s):
I, I too had similar memories ever since. I mean, I've been at that beach at Malibu West since I was in diapers and 5, 6, 7, 8 years old. I was down there and I noticed them doing somersaults in the sand or doing headstands against the wall. So what did Naked as well, what did,

5 (8m 42s):
So what did you think talking to these guys? It suddenly occurred To me, who my dad really is. You know how every neighborhood has its eccentric? The cat lady, the parrot man, the guy with the umbrella hat and recycling cart, who yells Well, in my Southern Californian hometown, Malibu West. My dad is that person. It's an unsettling thing to realize about one of your own parents.

8 (9m 6s):
And behind Mr. Lowe's back, he was known as the naked handstand man for years, I didn't even know his name. I just thought he was the naked handstand man.

7 (9m 16s):
You're gonna have to do the song.

5 (9m 18s):
The song. What do you

8 (9m 18s):
Mean the song? Scott

7 (9m 19s):
Has another, I'm gonna put him on the spot. Oh no.

8 (9m 24s):
Yes. Wait,

5 (9m 24s):
There's a naked handstand.

8 (9m 26s):
It's

7 (9m 26s):
Just a

5 (9m 27s):
Yes, of course there's a Naked Handstand Man song. Unbelievably, the Mr. Loh song they'd recorded was only the latest in a decade long aesthetic exploration of my father on the part of Boy Hits car bassist Scott Menville.

8 (9m 42s):
I was like, I was walking down the beach one day, I happened to turn and look his way there stood, man, we all know, and his name is Mr. Loh. He stood right there with his head in the sand. He's the naked handstand man, Mr. Low,

7 (10m 9s):
Something

8 (10m 10s):
Like that. You were like 12.

5 (10m 12s):
I invited my father to join me in the band, in the studio when Harmonic. He doesn't really see all the fuss about his nakedness.

10 (10m 18s):
For example, in Stanford, at Stanford University, which I went there too, in the men's swimming pool, everybody is naked because that's most hygienic, most clean thing to do, you see.

5 (10m 31s):
But if some young people wanna see his nakedness as a symbol of something more important, well, my father's happy to be of service.

10 (10m 38s):
The way I discovered the tape was This. one day, maybe couple months ago, I hitchhike and a couple young man picked me up. This Mr. Loh, we hear that tape about you in Know song. Oh, I say those rasco, they did tape. They tell me. And it's very nice. I'm very, I feel very happy, very honored. You know, probably if they don't write any song about me, probably nobody will ever write about me. So this is my life chance.

5 (11m 7s):
Of course that's not true because I've made my career writing about yours, you

10 (11m 11s):
Know? Yeah. But not sound, you see. Okay. You see you are on the writing, so I appreciate that too. But yeah, I like something different. That's, that's very precious for me. See,

5 (11m 21s):
Of course, with all due respect to the members of Boy Hitz car, in my opinion, my father is the least likely candidate to become a symbol of individual freedom, of spiritual introspection, of the healing powers of nature. After all, this is a man who believed all three of his children should get PhDs in engineering or else they would starve in the street. Then again, all these things may be a matter of personal interpretation. So you see my father's nakedness as kind of a rebellion of some sort, or

8 (11m 52s):
No, not actually. It's natural. Yeah, just he's being natural.

9 (11m 57s):
I feel that he has the ability to go beyond the general stereotype that America holds in that regard and is free

10 (12m 6s):
Contact with nature. You know, that's very important. Not in the society. You're so busy, busy, busy, busy, busy. Not much time, you know, talk to yourself or talk to the nature,

5 (12m 19s):
Nature. But did you encour, I'm just trying to remember as kids, if you encouraged us to do that.

10 (12m 25s):
Oh, yes.

5 (12m 25s):
Okay. When, well,

10 (12m 26s):
You, we, we do many things. We always go along the Zuma Beach to the garbage can to collect those aluminum cans. And we compete with Vander Maiden's family. You know, we have to go one step

5 (12m 40s):
Ahead, not to put too fine a point on it, but a competition to collect cans for spare change. It's not the sort of communing with nature, say, while Whitman and Ralph Waldo Emerson extol, which brings me to another point, I have to say, there is something sort of poignant about sitting in a room full of young people who are hanging onto my father's every word. He's like an odd little guru. They, his apostles, God knows, he never got that from my sister, brother or me. At one point, for reasons too complicated to explain here, my father sang the boys in the band a Chinese folk song that he had translated into French.

5 (13m 26s):
Were you, were you crying?

9 (13m 28s):
I must say that tears were coming. Why?

5 (13m 30s):
Why, why, why?

9 (13m 32s):
I was just beautiful. I was just an unhindered true expression of something that I just felt that was totally genuine. I, I just gave me the chills. Should I see another one?

5 (13m 41s):
Sure. Why not sing another one? If this makes my father happy, well then I guess I'll try to be happy for him.

6 (13m 56s):
Dolphin

1 (14m 13s):
Dad, do you have the script for the back of this? Yeah, I have it. Okay, why don't you give the back of it.

2 (14m 17s):
Sandra Singh Loh is a writer, performer, composer, and columnist for Buzz

1 (14m 21s):
Magazine. Hey, this is Ira in 2023. Today's show is a rerun. I am jumping in to say that Sandra actually has a new comedy called Mad Women of the West, that's running at the Odyssey Theater in Los Angeles right now. Her dad, Mr. Bo, died a few years ago at the age of 96, and the band did a live performance of this song at his wave. Hey dad, you know, one of the things that you often complain To me about, about stories that you hear on public radio is that, is that they're too long. How, how are we doing so far?

2 (14m 53s):
How long was that story in

1 (14m 55s):
Total? The total story is about 11 minutes.

2 (14m 58s):
That's a pretty long piece.

1 (15m 0s):
Too long do you think?

2 (15m 1s):
Yeah, I think it's too long.

1 (15m 4s):
Did your interest flag?

2 (15m 7s):
No, my interest didn't slow down. However, if I were listening to the show at home with other distractions around, it might lag off a little bit. I think.

1 (15m 36s):
Dad, it's time to open up Act Two

2 (15m 39s):
Act Two father's music.

1 (15m 41s):
Now dad, for this act I asked you to bring in an example of the kinds of music that you, my father used to play around the house when I was a kid, cuz you had music going, you know, whenever you were home on weekends and Absolutely. Okay. What, so what'd, so what'd you bring in?

2 (15m 53s):
Well, I brought three Frank Sinatra CDs.

1 (15m 56s):
Right on. Can can we, can you just choose a song and let's, let's pop that on. Sure. What have you got?

2 (16m 4s):
Probably my favorite Frank Sinatra song, lady is a Tramp.

1 (16m 8s):
Now why is this, why is this your favorite?

2 (16m 10s):
I don't know. I just like the rhythm. Like Frank Sinatra's phrasing,

12 (16m 22s):
She gets too hungry for dinner at eight. She likes the theater and never comes late.

2 (16m 34s):
Ira, you remember the 60th birthday party?

12 (16m 37s):
She never your

1 (16m 38s):
60th birthday party

2 (16m 39s):
Where we had the Frank Sinatra impersonator? Sure. Well this is, he sang this there, did a pretty good job too.

12 (16m 51s):
Doesn't like crap games Barons won't go to.

2 (17m 4s):
What do you think? Pretty good song.

1 (17m 6s):
It's a great song. And this next story that we're gonna do is about a fatherly duty that is linked to a song but not a good song.

2 (17m 13s):
So it's not Lady as a Tramp or anything like that?

1 (17m 15s):
Oh, definitely not. The song is actually a happy birthday. I think you're gonna like this next story, dad. It's definitely from the dad's point of view, it's about being a father. Ian Brown recorded this for us at a show that we did in front of a live audience.

13 (17m 28s):
No one arrives fashionably late for a seven year old's birthday party That offends rule one of parental life. Never waste free babysitting. But all seven guests at my daughter Haley's seventh birthday party were dropped off by their parents mysteriously seven minutes early. That sort of behavior is just plain rude. It was like being swarmed by a gang from Planet Tiny. They dropped their coats in the hall and immediately scattered to the farthest corners of the house, like some new instantly contagious form of biological weapon.

13 (18m 20s):
I staggered upstairs with a small mountain of coats in my arms, which is not a chore. I saw myself performing back when I was young and longing to be grown up even when I was 11. I wanted to be married because married people I knew had sex every night of their lives. That's another story. I was lugging coats back downstairs. Trish, the mother of Katie Haley's best friend, two best friends ago. Trish shot me a knowing look magician, right?

13 (19m 3s):
How can you tell? I said fiber optic wands by the forks. And that was the first hint that my wife and I might have gone slightly over the top birthday wise, that we might have stepped over the strict moral boundary that separates caring, thoughtful parents who, who believe in personal attention and quality time from cheese balls like us Who try to buy their way into their children's hearts. It's easy to commit that social gaff these days. My wife and I both work. The harder we work, the guiltier we feel, the more we want Haley's birthday parties to be well visible from outer space would be gratifying.

13 (19m 55s):
We'd been planning Haley's seventh birthday, or to be slightly more accurate, my wife Johanna had been planning it and I'd been doing nothing for weeks. What there was was a cake iced by professionals in the shape of a magician's top hat, which costs 30 bucks. Eight loot bags filled with thoughtful age appropriate peanut free party favors at $15 a bag.

13 (20m 35s):
And of course the magician himself at $150 for two hours. He called himself the amazing Robert. I don't think he meant that. Ironically. Now I like to do something special on Haley's birthday. Still don't you think? I said to my wife as she frantically tried to find a magician who wasn't booked three months in advance. Don't you think we might be over amping? But honey, if we don't go slightly crazy, Johanna said quite logically some other parent will then what's Haley gonna think?

13 (21m 22s):
And anyway, do you have a better idea? And I did not have a better idea. My sole contribution to the magician party had been to suggest that we include a Whoopi cushion in every LUT bag. Or, or at least it was my idea, to blow them up and put them in the loot bags pre inflated. In the old days when Haley was small, we kept her birthday simple. I learned that lesson when I lived in Los Angeles near Beverly Hills.

13 (22m 4s):
In Beverly Hills. Parents liked their children's birthday parties to have a theme and a fairly significant theme at that manifest destiny, say, or, Or a NASA moonshot in la I never went to a birthday party that featured anything less than pony rides. And one mother actually gave out Gucci t-shirts in the loop bags and it was hard to compete with that in an act of defiance. A friend of ours, a struggling writer, staged her daughter's birthday in a park of all places. The kids had a good enough time, they ran around and swung on swings and played tag and generally reveled in a whole two hours when they weren't under the watchful eye of a nanny or armed response security.

13 (22m 51s):
The grab bags contained what? Grab bags are supposed to contain candy rather than Rolex watches. I the Beverly Hills parents flocked, I mean literally flocked round our friend. Fabulous idea. They said nature. Who would've thought, can I steal a theme? But our friend Catherine is the queen of the less is more easy on mummy birthday party. She says Children want strong experiences, not new ones. Which is why last weekend for her daughter Mary's seventh birthday, Catherine invited seven, six girls over to string gummy bears onto extra long bamboo skewers.

13 (23m 38s):
That was the theme of the party Skewing candies on a stick. There was some risk of eye injury and the entire gimmick seemed to have Freudian undertones. The little girls kept saying, I'm gonna stick this skewer up gummies tiny butt and giggling hysterically. But all in all, it was a winner. Only one girl barfed the entire party cost 15 bucks Canadian.

13 (24m 19s):
It is true that Kathryn had a pinata. Pinatas are excellent because they entail hitting an object violently with a stick. But those were the old pre Baal birthdays. By the time Haley turned five, the year of our most corrupt and therefore most successful birthday, we'd gone as low as a parent can go. We'd hired Human Barbie for $300. Human Barbie dressed up in full size versions of Barbie doll outfits and came to your house. Human Barbie arrived in a Dodge Grand caravan with human Midge, her assistant, two giant mobile racks of party dresses for the girls, a TSET in a case and two chests of makeup.

13 (25m 10s):
She dressed the kids, discussed the possibility of multiple careers and fed them cake. All our friends were completely horrified. I, I might as well have said, oh, this year Haley's having a crack party. We're having a cake mate of crack too. My Canadian friends put this crassness down to the fact that Johanna, my wife, is an American, but successful.

13 (25m 52s):
Wow. It was as if the Dalai Lama had made a stop at our house. The girls were hypnotized with awe. They spent most of the afternoon standing in a circle brushing human Barbie's hair. I had the feeling that secretly quite a few mums wouldn't have minded giving it a try themselves. As it turned out, I needn't have worried about the amazing Robert, the magician. Either he was a, a handsome guy with sideburns and a, a rye if somewhat resigned manner.

13 (26m 32s):
He knew what he was doing though. He, he started cracking jokes with the kids right away. You must be Haley. He said to one of the boys as he walked through the door. No, Peter said, I'm a boy and clapped his hands. Hey, the magician said no clapping. So all the kids clapped. I said, no clapping. By the time he started pulling eggs outta their noses, you know, they were garners. And I chose that moment to run upstairs. And I find I need a moment alone at regular intervals at these kitty birthday bashes, also at adult parties. In fact, I could use a a moment alone, right about now. But when I open the door to my bedroom, what do I find?

13 (27m 14s):
Lying. Lying on my bed, surrounded by entire mountain ranges of miniature winter coats. Two of my adult guests holding hands, their spouses were downstairs. I must say they played it cool. Headache. The woman said, you know, rubbing her temples. Not that I asked. Yeah, I said, these kids' parties can be brutal. And I tell you, I left fast. I didn't wanna ask. I certainly didn't wanna know. And downstairs the amazing Robert was making cards disappear and reappear. But Trish, Katie's mum, she kept staring at the magician.

13 (27m 56s):
I thought she disapproved of his tricks, but then she gave a little shriek. I know she said, I knew, I knew that magician. He has just come through a terrible divorce from a birthday clown, Which pretty much says it all, doesn't it? It's terrible getting older, the disappointments and the letdowns. But no child believes that they want to get older. I mean, if you're seven, you can't wait to be nine. I mean nine, that is gonna be the greatest because they think life just gets better and better and better the older you get.

13 (28m 37s):
And we grownups we know better, or we think we do. Or at least we need to think we do. But I didn't have much time for such model and thoughts and frankly, frankly, convoluted ones because a new sound was, was wafting in from the living room. A sound that is frankly impossible To me model about they'd found the loot bags crass.

13 (29m 20s):
Sure. Cheesy absolutely grown up. Not at all. That's what I liked about it.

14 (29m 27s):
Thank

1 (29m 32s):
Ian Brown. He's a roving writer for the Globe and Mail in Toronto. Also the author of The Boy in the Moon, A Father's Journey to understand his extraordinary son. And 60, my year of aging semi gracefully. Hey dad, it's time for us to give stations a chance to do their local ID brakes and local promos. So I think you have a piece of copy there in front of you.

2 (29m 51s):
I do coming up, one father leaves another one returns in a minute. When our program continues

GoodRx (29m 59s):
Support for This American. Life comes from GoodRx. Did you know that GoodRx has resources to support better mental health? From educational tools to prescription savings, GoodRx is here to help your mental health journey. GoodRx lets you compare prescription prices at over 70,000 pharmacies and instantly find discounts of up to 80%. If you have insurance or Medicare, GoodRx may beat your copay price. So for simple, smart savings on your prescriptions, go to goodrx.com/tal.

The New York Times (30m 31s):
Hey, it's Anna Martin from the New York Times and I'm here to tell you about something for New York Times news subscribers called New York Times audio. An app where you can get the latest in news culture cooking and more. It has exclusive shows. Storytelling from serial productions in This American, Life Sports from the Athletic and narrated articles from the times and beyond. New York Times audio. Download the app at ny times.com/audio app.

1 (31m 2s):
It is This American Life am Ira Glass. Our special Father's day edition and co-hosting with me for this day is my own father Barry Glass. Now a certified public accountant in Baltimore. But once upon a time back in his early twenties, a DJ

2 (31m 16s):
Ira. You also said you wanted a song dealing with fathers.

1 (31m 20s):
That's right. Did you bring in a song Dealing with Fathers?

2 (31m 22s):
I did.

1 (31m 23s):
What? What have we got?

2 (31m 24s):
It's by somebody that you may have never heard of because you're too young. Maybe you have Eddie Fisher,

1 (31m 32s):
Wasn't he? You know, the only way that I know who Eddie Fisher is, wasn't he one of Elizabeth Taylor's husbands?

2 (31m 37s):
That's right. That's right.

1 (31m 38s):
He was the one before the guy who she did Cleopatra with. Right? Is that right?

2 (31m 43s):
That's right.

1 (31m 44s):
How very sad for Eddie Fisher. This is all I would know. Here I am, a person in my mid thirties, an educated person. That is all I would know about him.

2 (31m 52s):
Richard Burton was married to Elizabeth Taylor after Eddie Fisher. The name of the song is, oh My Papa.

3 (32m 5s):
Oh

1 (32m 27s):
Dad. It's like Jewish mariachi music.

2 (32m 31s):
Is that on point for Father's Day?

1 (32m 33s):
You couldn't get more on point. Actually, one of our producers, you

2 (32m 35s):
Go around singing that about your father.

1 (32m 38s):
I will now dad. I promise. At least for the day. At least for Father's Day. Do you want me to do it now?

2 (32m 44s):
No, that's okay.

1 (32m 45s):
No, I'm gonna do it. I'm gonna do it. No, no, I'm gonna do it.

2 (32m 47s):
I've heard you

1 (32m 47s):
Sing on it. You can't stop me. When he would take me on his knee and and with a smile, he changed my tears to laughter. Oh, my Papa Dad, this is going out to you. To me. He was so wonderful.

12 (33m 14s):
Oh,

2 (33m 15s):
My heart is breaking. We're now at Act Three, the moment dad left

1 (33m 28s):
In this act, we have a story from Jay Allison. Jay Allison is this radio producer that all the people who kind of work behind the scenes in public radio, we all, we all know him, and he does these really unusual little stories. He lives in Woods Hole, Massachusetts, Cape Cod. And one of his neighbors is a guy named Dan Robb. And Dan Robb is a writer and a teacher and a carpenter and Jay and Dan had an idea for a little radio experiment. Dan's father left his family when Dan was a little kid, just I think three or four years old. And, and Dan remembered that night vividly. Or he thought he did But. he never discussed this with his parents. So Dad Jay encouraged Dan to talk to his parents about this on tape.

1 (34m 11s):
And, and I'm gonna tell you the story they put together. Okay,

2 (34m 15s):
Yeah, I'd like to hear it.

15 (34m 18s):
I remember clearly the morning they told me they were separating. I was three and they leaned over my bed, which was narrow and told me this something like, don't think this changes anything, but dad's moving out. And what I remember is telling them that it was not okay. Then later that day, I remember watching my father's back as he walked down the stairs outside the house. They were cement and had a black rod, iron banister running up both sides. And he was walking down the steps away from me. He had a brown tweed jacket on and brown leather shoes. And he was carrying two brown suitcases. He put them in his jeep back when they still said Willis on the side.

15 (35m 0s):
And he drove away.

16 (35m 2s):
The steps were cement steps pretty steep in about three flights, three little flights, three steps, and then a landing in three steps down. And there was something crooked about them. One of the steps sort of went off at an angle and there was a, an iron railing along the way. Not very pretty.

15 (35m 21s):
Now, if I looked out the window and watched dad packing his car and then driving away at that time, what kind of car would it have been?

16 (35m 33s):
Well, he had bought a little sports car because his car was in the, the garage in the shop, and he didn't wanna wait till it was ready, which would've been two or three days later. And But, he bought a little car so that he could leave right away. And he told me he was leaving on a trip across the country because that's what he had to do in order to clear his mind and get his feet on the ground again. So he packed up and he got in this little sports car and took off.

15 (36m 5s):
What kind of car was it? It

17 (36m 6s):
Was a little triumph, A little two door was a neat little car, which I sort of got special for the, for the trip. And as I, I just wanted to, I just drove out west. I mean, I, I just wanted to get, get away from Pittsburgh and, and just sort of clear my head out. I thought. And, but I remember telling Allison that when I got back, I thought I would, I would want to move out.

16 (36m 37s):
I had a lot of different feelings. I was angry that he'd done it. I was angry that he hadn't ever taken Dan and me, you and me on a trip.

15 (36m 51s):
And he was walking down the steps away from me and he was carrying two brown suitcases. He put them in his jeep back when they still said Willis on the side. And he drove away a little while before he left that day he knelt down in front of me and tightened my belt from me. I have a picture of that. His hands are big, bigger than mine will ever be. Farmer's hands or a ball player's hands. And he is cinching the belt gently tighter and saying something To me.

17 (37m 22s):
I mean, I, I feel, I feel bad about all of the, the sort of gaps when, when I wasn't there and all of that time. I mean, it's once it's gone, it's gone. You can never get it back. And you know, relationships in many ways are built of memories. And the more memories you have, the the deeper the relationship. And if you miss several years of memories, you know, that's hard.

16 (37m 55s):
Well, there's a snapshot of his doing your belt up for you when you were probably three or four. You were four when he left, weren't you?

17 (38m 5s):
And don don't remember exactly what the season was. It was, it had to have been fall, I think, because I remember taking a lot of pictures of you in the subsequent weeks when we get together, you know, go to the parks and stuff, and it was all autumn shots.

15 (38m 24s):
And he is cinching the belt gently tighter and saying something To me. I can't bank out the words in the picture, which is black and white and shows me standing there three years old in front of the big window that let the monochrome Pittsburgh light into the living room. The light is stark as if all of the cold burned to melt. The steel in that city had burned the color out of the air and it reflects off his hair, which is smooth with vitalis and shows his strong jaw and the depth of his dark eyes. There was no abuse in that household. No harsh words that I could hear, just nothing, no father anymore.

15 (39m 7s):
And my mother saw sobbing over the dishes in the sink. What do you think you would've done after he had packed up his car and left? What would have been your reaction that I might have observed?

16 (39m 25s):
Oh, you probably saw me sad and mournful, but then turning back to the house and, and trying to look cheerful. But I also felt, I also felt abandoned. And I felt that it was the, the end of a marriage, the end of my hopes for a marriage. The end of a, my hopes for a family for you and me. And he left us. But I also felt as he drove out of sight, well, thank goodness, what a sense of relief. I'm free. Of all that abuse and misunderstanding and bad feeling that had been going on for so long, I thought, well, at least I can be me now.

16 (40m 12s):
And, and not try to be something that somebody else was making me be.

17 (40m 20s):
The the split up was my doing. And coming out of a sort of a combination of my own immaturity, restlessness, dissatisfaction, inflated hopes and expectations. And I think, I guess I, I just felt that I had never, I'd never had any, any kind of freedom of course. I mean, I never, I I never really found freedom afterwards. No. You, you sort of think, well, you're gonna change your life and then Loh and behold your life turns out to be about the same.

15 (41m 1s):
I was three and they leaned over my bed, which was narrow and told me this, don't think this changes anything, but dad's moving out. And what I remember is telling them that it was not okay.

16 (41m 13s):
I didn't want him to tell you first, and he didn't want me to tell you first. So we did it together. And I remember, I knew it was a, a terrible blow for you.

17 (41m 25s):
I don't remember telling you with her, you were in bed. I remember, I mean, at least I have this, this picture in my mind and in that little room, you know, at Maple Heights and I, I came in and I, and I said, started to say something like, Dan, I'm going to be leaving and whatever I was was going to say. And you somehow knew what was coming.

15 (41m 55s):
It was not okay.

17 (41m 57s):
And you said, I don't want to hear it. Hmm. And sort of, you know, like put a pillow over your head and, and kind of, you know, didn't want to, didn't want to listen.

18 (42m 11s):
Hmm.

17 (42m 12s):
And, and, and it was a, it was a wrenching moment. It really was. And I mean, I I've thought since, since then that actually when I, when I, when I walked outta your bedroom that night

15 (42m 31s):
Yeah.

17 (42m 33s):
That, that was really a, a, a major turning point in my life. And, and I, and I don't know to this day, whether it was for for good or Ill

18 (42m 48s):
Rule

15 (42m 56s):
When my father left my bedroom, it was a turning point for me too. It was the moment I moved outside the myth of the American family left it and became a part of something else. Something with no affirming mythology to look forward to. And my restless memories of that day to look back on, I became a part of divorce, which is like the death of the family. And I turned down a path less well marked les, well led. But I, unlike my father, no longer wonder if it was for good or for ill. It just is.

15 (43m 39s):
Okay. Well I think that's about it. This will be on the radio right before Father's Day. Oh. So, so I'd like to wish, wish you Happy Father's Day.

17 (43m 52s):
Oh, okay. Thank you. You're

15 (43m 54s):
Welcome. And and maybe we can make something good out of this. Yeah. So thank you so much. Okay. All right. I love you.

17 (44m 2s):
Love you man.

15 (44m 3s):
Okay. Talk to you soon. Yeah. Bye

18 (44m 5s):
Bye.

1 (44m 18s):
And Dan Robb made that back in the nineties when we first broadcast today's show.

18 (44m 29s):
Hey, dad? Yes sir.

1 (44m 32s):
Do the next act open please.

2 (44m 34s):
Act Four reconciling with dad.

1 (44m 37s):
You know, this whole show is like little reconciling with dad though you and I we're, we don't need to reconcile, but no, we don't. We don't. Well dad, this next story is, is about a father and son. The father was, this was this pretty well known man here in Chicago named James d O'Reilly. He was an actor here and a director from the 1960s through the 1980s. And among people who went to theater, just, you know, he's one of these people who everybody knew. He was artistic director of the Body Politic Theater and the court theater. And he wasn't the most reliable dad. And hi, his son is a guy named Beau O'Reilly, who's a playwright and a local musician and stages a lot of theater here in town.

1 (45m 21s):
And, and Beau has this story about, about his father, including a moment in their lives when they did reconcile in a way

19 (45m 30s):
When I was a little kid, five or six. My father would do these big variety shows, these musical reviews for college theater groups. And I would often appear with him playing the bad kid in town or the clown screaming the lines of this old man from the top of a step ladder. And at the shows end, we would rush first to the bar where my father knew all the girls' names and then to the train station to catch the last train home. And I would get very tense then and and hot and my stomach like I was gonna burn up and pass out as we would often miss the last train home and have to spend the long hours till morning waiting in the train station.

19 (46m 12s):
My father falling quickly asleep, his huge head thrown back in the train waiting room seat. It seemed to hang at an impossible odd angle from the rest of his body. Like the.at the bottom of a question mark that knows it has to be there, but hangs odd and unattached. And the scene, my father drunk and snoring, A big question mark of a presence would be repeated numbers of times over the next 25 years. My father passed out at the family table on Christmas morning, my father nodding off behind the wheel. My father snoring through the still Latin mass.

19 (46m 52s):
My father's head thrown back in the last row during my high school production of the glass menagerie. But when he was awake, he was not totally present either. He was this silent, brooding man home once a week for a family dinner. And I would sit up all night in that train station listening to the muted rumblings of the next morning's diesel engines and the fluttering of pigeons in the ceiling above my father's snoring, made rusty and noisy buy too much cigarettes and beer. When I was 29, something changed between me and my father. I was 29 very drunk most days.

19 (47m 33s):
And I came home to Chicago to work for my father. I guess I had rarely seen him in my alcoholic adulthood, his alcoholic adulthood, having taken him away from the family circle years ago. And well, my father, he got me this job as a house manager and sometimes understudy at his theater on Lincoln Avenue. And he was warm and kind about it. I guess

14 (48m 2s):
This

19 (48m 3s):
Kindness was unusual. It was hard for me to recognize that I didn't know whether it was kindness, really or not. Maybe he just recognized something in my swaying walk and my overly bright, loud way of speaking, a kindred alcoholic spirit. We would from then on, do our drinking together late nights at the pub next door to the theater, a pub where we could sit for hours, get a burger and a beer, a pub where my father ran a tab and I was always on the tab. Now the pub tables were family long with my father, always at the head and crowded with actors and confidants, all with one ear pointed at my father, hoping for a good joke from him, which usually came, or some word of praise which came rarer.

19 (48m 55s):
But when delivered were always delivered with a flare and a passion. These tables would start full, full of people and huge pints of black Guinness and round beer. But by one or two in the morning they would be empty. Except for my father and I. Me talking loud and feverish now lovers and women and broken hearts and politics and plays and broken hearts and lost lovers, and lost women and broken hearts. And me doing most of the talking, my father nodding and grimacing, looking appropriately sad, But his eyes looking away, always scanning the bodies of the young women who moved about in the pub's.

19 (49m 45s):
Waning hours. Sometimes these women stop by the table to speak to my father, him finding sly ways to kiss and touch and pinch them, locking their eyes with his as if his eyes were gift enough to allow him his inappropriate touching. The pub would close with us still in it, the tables having adopted the chairs and now holding them piggyback. And my father would sign his tab with a flourish and we would part company me often watching him walk slowly up Lincoln Avenue, a large man with a lordly, old-fashioned head, always aware that he was like something outta Shakespeare or O'Neil, he might be swaying, but swaying with a charm and a Dignity.

19 (50m 39s):
The further my father got up the street, the more real he felt To me there. There that was the father I knew. Half a courtyard away under the hot lights doing Shakespeare's Lear or Brex Galileo. And I would stand on Lincoln Avenue crying, crying of a 29 year old drunken baby whose father is moving away, always moving away. And that baby knows he's better off having dad go. I learned a lot watching my father's theater that year. Wonderful productions and Playboy of the western world. And Ronald Harwood's, the dresser, Brian Frills translations.

19 (51m 24s):
My father's performances were always in the center of of the place. And I was the house manager. I was skittish in a baggy suit and non-matching vintage ties, greeting the audience at the door, sewing them coffee, but mostly watching the performances night after night, my understudy assignment was not something any of us ever expected to use. But one week here it comes. An actor could not appear. And I was to play my father's tortured, crippled son. It was an Irish play about an Irish father and his Irish sons. And I was an Irish son.

19 (52m 4s):
Nevermind that I had an Irish brogue like Ringo stars, Liverpool. And I'd never appeared on a professional stage. There would be one rehearsal, my father, not even on stage, but seated in the audience chain, smoking, hungover. Barking orders. Orders that move my body, hot and frightened, clumsily around the stage, me mumbling the lines and standing in all the wrong places. And the night of the performance, I was pacing and shaking in the hall outside of the green room where my father and the rest of the cast were making up and preparing to perform.

19 (52m 45s):
I could hear them talking, but they couldn't see me at all. They didn't know I was there. And one of the actors said, with a good actor's projection and precise actors diction, get ready for amateur night. What did you say? My father said it quietly. But with force. Get ready for amateur night.

14 (53m 12s):
Well,

19 (53m 12s):
He'll be fine. You worry about yourself prick. Now, this is the only time I ever heard my father defend me. And I now realize the significance of that. But at the time, I was very angry and it was the anger that burned the fear out of me, like a fog on a new hot summer Sunday. And I was fine when I hit the stage. I was understudy good enough. And when I played to my father, his eyes, a deep well into the heart of Brian reel's, translations, I actually enjoyed myself.

19 (53m 54s):
There were moments of real emotion between us and on the stage my father was really there, like I could reach out and touch him and he would really be there. And when the lights came down, I stumbled off stage tripping and falling in the dark and my father was waiting. His big noble actor had shaggy with sweat. His arms open to receive me. We huggy miss the curtain call. Probable first for my father. He was not one to miss a curtain call.

19 (54m 38s):
A few months later my father fired me during his production of the dresser by Ronald Harwood, my father playing sir, a bullying tyrannical Shakespearean actor. Sir, my father was not one to shrink from type casting. And one of my assignments was to meet him in the lobby Holding a towel, which he would use to wipe the makeup and sweat from his face before returning to the stage for the curtain call. I wasn't there with the towel. I wandered off to the pub for a pint before the show ended. The truth be told, there were probably many nights when I wasn't there.

19 (55m 21s):
I was off crying into the phone, running off the long distance phone bill for the theater or selling dope out of the theater concession stand to my friends. I was 29 and drunk most of the time. And my father, he recognized me for what I was. I was becoming very much like him in my 29th year. And perhaps he was embarrassed and uncomfortable having to see himself in me every day. He was fired soon after from his theater on Lincoln Avenue. And we continued to meet in the pub night after night for many months.

1 (56m 12s):
Well, Riley's Chicago, Chicago playwright, and he's also the co-host of the Rhinoceros Theater Festival, which today shows a rerun. It is now in its 34th year, he'll be performing on July 1st and tribute to Bob Dylan.

20 (56m 32s):
Papa, can you hear me?

3 (56m 38s):
Papa?

20 (56m 39s):
Can you see me? Papa, can you find

3 (56m 44s):
Me

20 (56m 46s):
The

3 (56m 47s):
Night?

20 (56m 50s):
Papa, are you near me? Papa, can you hear me? Papa, can you help me? Not. And looking at the skies seem to see a million is so much darker. The wind is so much colder. The world I see is so much bigger now that I'm alone.

20 (57m 33s):
Papa, please forgive me. Try to understand me. Papa, don't no choice. Hear anything filled with voice.

1 (57m 54s):
So Dad, you're sitting there in a studio in Baltimore. I'm here in Chicago. Do you have our credits?

2 (57m 59s):
I do have your credits.

1 (58m 0s):
All right.

2 (58m 2s):
Our program was produced today by Elise Spiegel and Ira Glass with Peter Clowny, Nancy Updyke, and Dolores Wilbur. Our contributing editors are Paul Tough, Jack Hit, and the fabulous Margie Rocklin.

1 (58m 15s):
Special thanks today to Bob Carlson at K C R W in Santa Monica. For recording Sandra Slo, her father and the Bandon Boy hits car. And to Dave Johnson at W J H U, the fabulous Dave Johnson for, for Getting my dad on tape and out here,

2 (58m 29s):
Music helped today from Chicago's John Connors. The story about Dan Rob's father leaving comes from Jay Allison series Life Stories, which is funded by the Corporation for Public Broadcasting and the National Endowment for the Arts

1 (58m 42s):
That was so smooth. Additional help on today's rerun from Matt Tierney, stone Nelson and Ellen Mustafa. Also worth mentioning Boy Hits car. The band that we heard from in Act. One has a new album coming out later this year. 2023, This American Life is delivered to public radio stations by P R X, the Public radio exchange. Thanks as always. To our program's co-founder, Mr. Tori Malatia, Amira Glass,

2 (59m 2s):
And I'm Barry Glass.

1 (59m 4s):
Back next week with more stories of This American, Life Fill, then don't drive like my father,

2 (59m 8s):
Don't drive like my son.

1 (59m 18s):
Next week on the podcast of this American Live, GBT four is a chatbot. So you type it a question, it types you back an answer. And it only knows words. But then a researcher asked it to draw, draw a unicorn, and somehow it could, which means maybe it's learning to understand and reason the way humans do that is actually a real possibility. Has the new generation of AI finally crossed some line and we have machines with actual human intelligence. That's next week on the podcast. Or new local public radio station.