BP (2s):
What does customer convenience have to do with the energy transition? BP recently purchased Travel Centers of America, adding 280 locations to our US retail network, including many that could become EV charging locations. See how else BP is investing in America at bp.com/investing in America. That's bp.com/investing in America.

1 (32s):
A. quick warning, there are curse words that are un beeped in today's episode of the show. If. you prefer a beeped version? you can find that at our website, This American Life dot org.

2 (43s):
From WB, e z Chicago. It's This American Life. I'm Sean Cole sitting in for Ira glass Late last year. I got some not so great health news that kind of scared the hell outta me. Basically, I was diagnosed with mild emphysema, lung disease, and two, what they're calling small benign nodules. One on each lung. It's like scar tissue. I'm trying to focus on the words mild, small, and benign. The cause wasn't mysterious. I'd been a daily cigarette smoker for about 35 years. It used to be a pack a day when I was younger, sometimes more. I'd cut it down to maybe a half or a third of that later on, and I'd been meaning to quit for a long time, but I just never tried to.

2 (1m 23s):
Not really, and now it felt like I had no choice, which before I tell you what happened next, I feel like I should explain what a huge change that was going to be. I always say I started smoking when I was 15 and started inhaling when I was 16. Partly, I just wanted to be like the people in the British TV dramas. I was watching on P B s pulling these perfect little white cylinders out of silver cases that snapped shut. I remember I painted an empty metal bandaid container light blue, and kept my Salem menthols in there puffing at them in my parents' driveway in my thirties and forties. I was the guy in the friend group that always had cigarettes. I'd smoke during the shortest of walks, like from this office to the hotel bar across the street.

2 (2m 7s):
I'd smoke after a 10 mile training run for a half marathon. You smoke in your car. Someone would ask and I'd say, yeah, that's why I bought it. Whenever I imagined myself stranded in the woods or like on a life raft in the middle of the ocean, the panic I felt was about not having enough cigarettes with me. So the prospect of stopping for good always felt like trying to strand myself on purpose, like everything in me opposed it. The emphysema diagnosis was in early November. I figured I'd put off quitting till after Christmas when I didn't have to work for a bit. Whenever I went too long without smoking, my cognition would slow down to where I could barely think. December 28th, I'll stop. I told myself and started practically counting down the cigarettes.

2 (2m 50s):
I recorded voice memos through all of this. This one's from December 21st, a week before quitting day. This is one of the last times I'll be sitting here smoking out the window looking at the World Trade

3 (3m 6s):
Tower.

2 (3m 11s):
And then I guess going forward, I'll

3 (3m 14s):
Just like

2 (3m 15s):
Sit here and I don't know, think or something. This is how much of a smoker I was. I didn't even realize that when you don't smoke, you don't have to go and sit by the window. But the thing I'm really here to tell you about is how I was planning to quit. I was going to read a book, kind of the book for people in my situation. It's called Allen Carr's. Easy Way to Stop Smoking. You might've heard of it. It's sold millions, millions of copies. It's pretty famous. A lot of famous people read it and then caval about it on television. James Bader's a fan. It

4 (3m 53s):
Was so easy. It was so perfect, and it was all because of this book,

2 (3m 59s):
Ellen DeGeneres,

5 (3m 60s):
The Easy Way to stop smoking. Alan Carr wrote it, and everybody who reads the book stops and, and so I stopped and I'm so glad I quit because I had a monkey

2 (4m 8s):
On my Ashton Kutcher.

6 (4m 10s):
And the great thing is, while you're reading the book, you get to smoke like he tells you when to light up. He's like, all right, light one now. And you're like, absolutely.

2 (4m 17s):
That part's a big selling point.

4 (4m 19s):
He insists that you keep smoking while you're reading the book, and then when you finish it, you stop.

7 (4m 26s):
My method is known as Easy Boy.

2 (4m 28s):
This is Alan Carr recorded back in 2005,

7 (4m 31s):
And it will enable any smoker to quit immediately, permanently and actually enjoy the process before you dismiss my claims. Bear in mind that I've been proving them for over 20 years. That's why my book and global network of clinics are so successful.

2 (4m 52s):
This book is the only thing that's ever given me a shred of hopefulness about stopping smoking. Like it literally always felt impossible in the past. And now here's this guy saying that not only would I be able to do it, but actually be happy about it. That's the true measure of success. Alan Carr says, not just stopping but becoming a happy non-smoker. I couldn't imagine being happy not smoking. I couldn't imagine that a bunch of words could get someone to stop feeling an incredibly strong urge that words alone could make something that seems so impossible actually happen. What type of witchery was afoot here in this book? And all the stories in today's show are about that people kind of casting spells to try to make people completely change their directions in life in some way.

2 (5m 40s):
Oh, and you get to listen to me try to quit smoking. Stay with us. Act One, the straw that broke Joe Camel's back. We're actually not sure about that title. There's a couple of others here that we liked. Act One. Can I Still Be a Joker? And a midnight toker or this one Act One, the Unbearable lighter of being. Anyway, the book is relatively short and really, really repetitive. He says You have to follow every instruction to the letter and the way it works.

2 (6m 19s):
Carr says, most people who try to convince you not to smoke will tell you the reasons you shouldn't. Health risks, all the money you spend, whatever. But he says, smokers already know all of that. If any of that actually worked, Alan Carr says, you'd have quit by now. Now, what he does instead is the opposite. He names all of the reasons you give for smoking, all the things you like about it or think it's offering you. And he carefully explains why every one of those reasons is bogus. He describes it as a kind of deprogramming, ultimately removing any desire for a cigarette. And a lot of the precepts make a lot of sense. For instance, he says, smokers believe that smoking helps them focus and concentrate, but he says they're just kidding themselves.

2 (6m 59s):
That's just an illusion. All smoking does is remove the distraction of nicotine withdrawal, so you only think it's helping you think better. There are tons of fallacies like that he says, and smokers perpetuate them without even realizing it. This is from the book. He says, smokers claim that the cigarette relaxes them and helps them to handle stressful situations, but they also claim that it helps them get going in the morning and that it gives them a boost. How can a drug that relaxes you or relieves stress also stimulate you? This contradiction illustrates the truth about smoking. The cigarette just doesn't do any of the things we tell ourselves. It does. I should say he distinguishes easy way from just going cold Turkey or what he calls the willpower method.

2 (7m 42s):
Those poor souls aren't real non-smokers. He says, there's just smokers who aren't letting themselves smoke. What kind of life is that? Whereas if you have no desire to smoke anymore, you don't need willpower. You also won't be irritable or depressed or gain weight or any of the things that according to most people, make quitting hard. Also, the reported success rate for willpower alone is really low. It depends on who you ask, but it might be as low as three to 5%. Cutting down doesn't work. Alan Carr says, 'cause it just makes every cigarette seem that much more precious. That's why he says to just smoke as you normally would while you read the book. Also, he really wants you to sit with it. How's the taste? What's it really feel like going down into your lungs?

2 (8m 24s):
And don't even get him started on nicotine replacement therapy, patches, the gum, all that stuff. That's what's gonna keep you wanting cigarettes and get into arguments on this point, like this one on Sky TV with someone from a smoking cessation charity.

7 (8m 38s):
It's not nicotine replacement therapy. It's nicotine maintenance. You're actually giving them nicotine, the drug they're addicted to, and that keeps their body craving negative. It's absolute nonsense.

9 (8m 50s):
You are giving them nicotine, but it's stepping them down gradually so that they can come off

7 (8m 54s):
It. Can you tell me the proof rates assess of nicotine that

9 (8m 58s):
Plays? It's much greater than willpower

7 (9m 1s):
Alone. That's that's what the adverts say. It's four times greater, four times greater than what?

9 (9m 6s):
Four times greater than just using willpower alone.

7 (9m 9s):
Willpower doesn't work. No. It's four times greater than nothing.

9 (9m 13s):
Well, and if you

2 (9m 14s):
Can, Alan Carr never had any training in psychology or medicine. He says one day he just realized what a con smoking is and took things from there. Started working with individual clients in the early eighties and group seminars in the book, and ultimately an organization that operates in more than 50 countries around the world. For my money, his cred was even better than that of a therapist or a psychiatrist. He was a smoker for about as long as I was and much heavier, sometimes a hundred cigarettes a day. He had tried to quit a lot of times before hitting upon his method, at which point he just stopped on a dime if only he'd figured it outweigh sooner. Alan Carr died of lung cancer in 2006.

2 (9m 54s):
He hadn't been a smoker for about 20 years.

8 (10m 1s):
I

2 (10m 1s):
Felt this growing excitement. as I read the book, I was starting to beat out my fear of quitting. At one point, I wrote in a notebook, Alan Carr's right about the taste. It's foul smoke felt bad going down my lungs. I think my thinking about smoking has genuinely changed. The night before my final day of smoking, I felt like a kid on Christmas Eve Eve sort of thrilled and wishing the day would just hurry up and get here already, Allen Carr said this might happen. And the next night, December 27th, I smoked my final cigarette, sort of a ritual built into the process. For some reason, I wanted to be outside walking the neighborhood. I smoked it maybe faster than any cigarette ever, knocked a burning ember off the butt, threw it in somebody's trash can, and said out loud, goodbye cigarettes.

2 (10m 48s):
And when I woke up the next day, I wanted a cigarette more than I ever remember wanting one first thing in the morning, which is not what the book says is supposed to happen. I don't know what I did or didn't do or what exactly went wrong, but suddenly the way felt anything but easy In the book. Over and over again, Alan Carr says, some version of the actual physical withdrawal from nicotine is a very mild, slightly empty, insecure feeling. It's so mild that most smokers don't even notice it throughout their smoking lives. I've also heard that the physical withdrawal only lasts three days.

2 (11m 28s):
Or is it a week or is it three weeks? And after that, it's merely psychological. I've heard the individual cravings last anywhere from three to five minutes, and then they pass. All I. Can say is, in my experience, all of this is utter horse shit. I don't even understand the concept of individual cravings. In my case, withdrawal has meant a constant crazed yearning that varies in tolerability throughout the day. This is how I described it a couple of weeks in, it's like a worldwide itch. Like all of my limbs are phantom limbs. Like I swallowed a live animal much larger than me that promptly died, and now I have to walk around with it inside of me soul and all.

2 (12m 12s):
Or it's like opening all these awful little packages in which there's something I can't see that painfully stings me. And there's no telling how many more I have to open, nor for how long it is the thing I'm thinking about more than any other thing, and more than all of the other things. This was on January 13th, okay, I've had a bunch of snacks and nothing makes it better. Like literally nothing makes it better. Everything makes everything that I do instead of smoking makes me wanna smoke more. This is the worst day that of the non-smoking that there's been so far day. What is it? We're now going into day 17.

2 (12m 53s):
I don't fucking know. I, I don't know. Like they're hard. They're all hard. The thing about thinking something's gonna be easy is that when it's ultimately not, it makes it that much harder. Like, yeah, if I can't do it, I must be an idiot. And thinking back on some of the passages in the book, I felt gaslit, like my lived experience was being questioned. And this is Alan Carr. In a British talk show, sometime in the early s,

7 (13m 21s):
We talk about these terrible withdrawal things. You say to, well, where did it hurt you? Where, show me

2 (13m 26s):
I. Can. Say exactly where? January 18th. So like three weeks in, I had this attack. I was on the corner in my neighborhood trying to decide whether to go home or go to the bar. I chose the bar. And my brain was like, oh, we're walking a bunch. It's time for a cigarette, huh? And I said, no, we don't do that anymore. And my brain was like, what do you mean it's, it's time for a cigarette? And I said, no, it's not. And then it's like I was physically punched in the solar plexus with something Electric that sent a shock up through my face and head. I screamed.

10 (13m 59s):
It's crazy. I just literally like turned to walk in the other direction. I just went,

8 (14m 5s):
Fuck. Like, fuck. Oh my fucking God.

10 (14m 14s):
Well, it better get better. At some point.

2 (14m 21s):
It got worse. I've gained weight. I've been drinking more. I went a month with no nicotine at all, and then gave in and started having a nicotine lozenge here and there. I have about two a day now, which naturally made me re-litigate everything Alan Carr had said. It also made me wonder like, why wasn't this working for me if it works for so many people? So I started looking for answers and I stumbled across this podcast that was way more revelatory to me about my addiction than anything in the book. Welcome to the Huberman Lab

11 (14m 51s):
Podcast, where we discuss science and science-based tools for everyday life.

2 (14m 57s):
You might be familiar with Andrew Huberman. He's kind of a neuroscience rockstar, now, has a lab at Stanford School of Medicine where he researches neurobiology and ophthalmology. But apart from that, he's made it a personal mission to explain how your brain and body works so you can maybe make better choices. And he has an episode on nicotine, which made me feel like someone had put their hand on my shoulder, looked me in the eye and said, you sir, are not insane. Again, Alan Carr's central premise is that all the things smokers like about smoking and relaxes us and focuses us and gives us a boost. Car says that the only thing we're feeling is just the withdrawal going away. But according to Huberman, that's not true at all.

2 (15m 39s):
Scientists have been studying the brain chemistry of this for years, decades. And just to be super abbreviated about it here, podcast is two hours long. Nicotine juices up your brain with these three chemicals. Dopamine, you've heard of dopamine. People think it causes pleasure, but it's also the thing that makes you want pleasure. It motivates you. It makes you strive. Pursue acetylcholine, which I had never heard of, helps you focus, come up with ideas. Plus, this is weird. You have acetylcholine receptors on your muscles too, which Huberin says could explain why some people feel more physically relaxed on nicotine,

11 (16m 17s):
Epinephrine, and

2 (16m 18s):
Then epinephrine, which you could just call adrenaline. So when Alan Carr says, the nicotine itself doesn't give you a boost, it gives you a boost. If

11 (16m 26s):
You were to zoom out and

2 (16m 27s):
Just think about, and when you put all of that together,

11 (16m 29s):
We now have a very clear picture. Reward pathways are turned on, attention is turned on, alertness is turned on. You feel better than you felt a few minutes ago. Your blood pressure is up, your heart rate is up. Your preparedness for thinking is elevated as well. And yet your body is somewhat relaxed. That's a very interesting state of mind and body. Interesting, because it's somewhat ideal for cognitive work. If you were gonna sit down and work on a book, or you're gonna sit down and try and figure out a hard math problem, or you're gonna write a letter that's been really challenging for you to write, or maybe that you're really excited to write, but that you've been, you know, slow to get out the door for whatever reason.

11 (17m 14s):
Here I'm talking about my own habits of procrastination. Well, that state of being very alert, but your body being relaxed is almost, if not the optimal state for getting mental work done. We were talking about one molecule, nicotine found in plants like tomatoes and potatoes in the tobacco plant. One molecule that can trigger activation of all the circuits for focus and motivation in one fell swoop. That is remarkable.

2 (17m 52s):
When I got in touch with Huberman and we sat down for a conversation, he said this stuff was obvious to him. The first time he smoked a cigarette, he was 14. Same time he had his first cup of black coffee.

11 (18m 3s):
I thought that was about as good as it gets until I took it my first drag off a cigarette. And then I realized, wow, wow, wow, wow. Nicotine just makes everything look a little different. Feel focused and relaxed. I mean, that's a very hard combo for most people to just drop themselves into.

2 (18m 25s):
Unfortunately, nicotine also has a lot of harmful side effects, constricts blood flow and cause heart problems. And just to say the whole second half of the podcast is about how incredibly bad tobacco is for you, Huberman doesn't smoke anymore or use any kind of nicotine. I ran him through some of Val cars claims about nicotine, and he did give me his take on them. Although Wally,

11 (18m 48s):
I have to be careful because I don't want to discourage anyone from using a resource like this book that could help them move away from a unhealthy practice. Sure, sure. So I don't wanna undermine his, his efforts 'cause I think that the effort is a noble and important one. But he

2 (19m 4s):
Says Alan Carr's, right, that you can get so dependent on nicotine, that you don't derive any benefit anymore and just smoke so you can feel normal. That can happen with any addictive drug. But he says there are tons of studies supporting the idea that nicotine helps with focus, stress. No, it doesn't curb your stress, but it might make you better able to handle stress. 'cause you're more keyed up and vigilant. So if the central premise of the book is flawed and nicotine can do all of these enjoyable, useful things, why do you think if you were to conjecture, would this system that didn't work for me, per se, work for so many people when you know, like

11 (19m 43s):
I was thinking about that. I, I think I know why. So from a neuro, I look at everything through the lens of biology. Right? You know, much to the discomfort of, of people close to me. But I, Can say that the book did a very interesting thing. I have to give him credit. What he did is he tried to bypass all the deeper biology of dopamine, acetylcholine, addiction, et cetera. And, what he did was he said, you've got a forebrain. Your forebrain can tell itself stories by telling itself stories. You can set context. So let's tell yourself a story. And the story is, this withdrawal doesn't really exist or it exists, but, you know, nicotine, it's not that bad or whatever.

11 (20m 27s):
The biology of nicotine doesn't really exist. Yeah. And when you feel uncomfortable, that's, in other words, he used the lack of knowledge about the way it really works in the reader to trick the reader into tricking themselves, into bypassing what would potentially be a much more complicated process. Yeah. Now, for some people, and apparently celebrities, it worked for them. But what if I came along with just the tiniest bit of knowledge to the contrary? Or what if someone like you has a, an experience to the contrary, well then bam, you're right back in square one. I guess it just doesn't work for me. Or there's something wrong with me.

2 (21m 9s):
Something wrong with me. That's what I'd been feeling like. And that's sort of endemic to the method. Like, if it doesn't work, it's 'cause you didn't follow all of the instructions or you didn't understand part of it. Read it again or call us or attend the live seminar. In one edition of the book, Alan Carr writes that, if you're thinking I'm still craving cigarettes after reading it, then quote, you are being very stupid. How can you claim I want to be a non-smoker and then say, I want a cigarette. That's a contradiction. If you say, I want a cigarette, you're saying, I want to be a smoker. Non-smokers don't want to smoke cigarettes. You already know what you really want to be. So stop punishing yourself.

2 (21m 51s):
Having this information, knowing what nicotine was and is no longer doing to me was comforting. 'cause I was like, it's not in my imagination. I wish I'd known all this before I'd stopped that I'd had more of a map of the landscape instead of just pretending I wasn't even on the continent. This was March 31st, the day after I talked with Huberman. It's three months in. I've been trying to get dressed for like, I don't know, like 10 or 15 minutes. I'm like, everything's just a little bit harder since I stopped smoking.

2 (22m 34s):
I'm like, slower. I'm slower and I'll forget. I mean, supposedly it's good for nicotine is good for working memory. Meaning like, what, why, why, why did I come into the kitchen again? Oh, yeah. And, and I've, I've like no working memory anymore. And so it takes me forever to do simple things. And they're not as fun. That's not the word for getting dressed, but they're not. It's like, it just feels like everything feels a little bit like a chore.

2 (23m 16s):
Goodness. There have been lots of news stories about Alan Carr's Easy way. He was interviewed a ton in the UK when he was alive. And the people who took over the organization after him have done a lot of press, but looking high and low, I hadn't seen anyone question the scientific accuracy of the method, even though most of the biology Huberman talks about has been known for a little while. So either I'm missing something, which happens a lot, or nobody's ever raised this particular issue with them before.

12 (23m 48s):
So you'll be there. I did actually for you.

13 (23m 52s):
Oh, that's fine. Thank you.

2 (23m 54s):
So I sat down with John dicey, Alan Carr's successor. He's the global c e o and senior facilitator of Easy Way. Now, he also took the seminar himself to quit smoking and says he was so enthralled by how well it worked that he hassled and harangued Alan Carr to let him get involved. They butted heads sometimes, but John really considers Carr to be a genius. I asked him if they'd ever talked about brain chemistry when Carr was alive. He said they had, although

13 (24m 21s):
He wasn't really interested in the science side of me, he wasn't. No, I think he, neither am I really, really. I've gotta say it's, it's, it's one of those things. Don't really think it has much to bring to the table, if that makes sense.

2 (24m 37s):
Because, you know, he talked, he's, he would say that he was like the world's leading expert in quitting smoking. Yes. You're smiling as I say that. So he, he wouldn't like, sort of as the world's leading expert in quitting sort of self professor, world's leading expert in quitting smoking, be be necessarily curious about that stuff. Yeah,

13 (24m 59s):
I think he was busy doing other things. Right. So in terms of the Easy Wing method, it's now being applied to, I think it's 15 or 16 different addictions or issues.

2 (25m 10s):
There's the easy way to stop drinking the easy way w e i g h to lose weight. There's one about being addicted to your phone. Lots of things. I should say. An updated version of the book, different from the one I read, addresses brain science for the first time. But it's very selective and it still claims nobody's ever had any pleasure or benefit from nicotine. I started taking John dicey through what I've learned from Andrew Huberman on your, the research that contradicts what's in the book. And that might help explain why for a lot of people, it's not going to be easy to walk away from smoking. So when the book says that it, that it doesn't physically aid in concentration just scientifically it does aid in concentration.

13 (25m 52s):
He's wrong.

2 (25m 52s):
You think he's wrong? I don't

13 (25m 54s):
Think he's wrong. I know he's wrong.

2 (25m 55s):
He's a neurobiologist. I don't

13 (25m 57s):
Care what he is. I mean it's, I'm not being disrespectful to him.

2 (25m 60s):
Yeah, no, sure.

13 (26m 1s):
He has a theory. He's,

2 (26m 3s):
He's theory. Well, it's based on, you know, I mean it's based on, he's,

13 (26m 6s):
He's just wrong tests on many levels. And I I'm struggling to understand why there's a desperation to prove or or believe that nicotine does something when it doesn't. Yeah. I've, I've never heard so much nonsense in my life. I'm sorry. Very nice guy. I'm sure, and I'm sure he believes what he's saying, but it's absolute nonsense.

2 (26m 29s):
I think that's where we're misunderstanding each other. 'cause I'm not looking for positives of nicotine. I, I was just looking for like, what, what is the mechanism? I was just like looking for what is the mechanism. And when I learned about the different neurochemicals that, that nicotine evokes in the brain, it just felt like that the method was predicated on a lie that like

13 (26m 51s):
Nicotine. So your, your feeling is that you would, you'll take nicotine for the rest of your life? N n

2 (26m 55s):
No, although Anna, why not?

13 (26m 57s):
Huh? Why not?

2 (26m 58s):
Well, it wasn't my plan. It wasn't my plan Because

13 (27m 1s):
Why isn't your plan? Why isn't your plan? If it's giving you these tremendous benefits that you, you struggle without it, why, why wouldn't you just take it for the rest of your life?

2 (27m 12s):
I think because there are health detriments, they're nothing like things got spicy with John dicey older. He emailed me more than once weeks after the fact to say he was still reeling from the interview, doesn't understand why anyone would push back at the Allen Carr easy way method. We've only ever done good in the world. He said, that's like kicking a cat. And why would anyone ever suggest there was a benefit to nicotine other than maybe the tobacco companies, a big pharma?

13 (27m 37s):
If it was true, I could almost live with that. If nicotine did make it easier for people to concentrate non-nicotine addicts to concentrate, I could live with that. I'm gonna, I'm genuinely interested in, look at the studies you've looked at. If there were advantages to it, I'd certainly acknowledge that. But, but there aren't, it's just,

2 (28m 1s):
I guess, how can you say there aren't, when you say that you haven't looked at the science when that, that it's just not, and that's fine. That it's not interesting to you. But when it's not interesting to you, and so you haven't really read about it and Alan didn't really read about it, then how, then how can you say it's not true?

13 (28m 13s):
It's just, it's irrelevant, isn't it? I don't know. I, I wouldn't want to spend too much time discussing whether the moon's made out of cheese. I'm pretty sure it isn't. Do you know what I mean? I think the, you know, it's hugely dangerous to talk about, you know, that there might be benefits to nicotine when it's just simply not true. It's unfortunate the book didn't work for you and I'm, I'm really sorry about that and I, I wish you'd reached out for help at the time because it doesn't have to be this complicated. It really doesn't, you know, I'm really pleased you're not smoking and I hope you're as well as you can be with the prognosis Yeah.

13 (28m 56s):
And everything like that. Thank you. You know, if you think this understanding has helped you continue not smoking, that's brilliant. But you are, you are you are you, are you, are you well? Are you, you sort of,

2 (29m 11s):
Thank you for asking. I, I think I'm okay. So basically they say that the emphysema is

8 (29m 19s):
Mild. That

2 (29m 25s):
John dicey says the organization doesn't make any claims about the success rate of the book for any measurable success. They always point to the seminar they give, which Alan Carr always said was about 90% effective. He based that figure on only about 10% of seminar goers taking advantage of the money back guarantee. In order to get your money back, you have to do this session two additional times for free. Anyway, the company's backed off from that claim in recent years. The seminar was put through a couple of randomized controlled trials where it was pitted against methods that offer both behavioral support and pharmacology, nicotine replacement, that kind of thing. The more recent and bigger of those studies found that 19% of the Allen Carr people were still quit after six months versus 15% of the other group.

2 (30m 12s):
The margin of error that basically means they're on par. Although 19% success still means that the method didn't work for four outta five people. In the study, John Dicey told me he doesn't think those studies are a good reflection of what the results are out in the real world. I'm literally looking through my kitchen window watching police officers smoke on the fire escape of the precinct. This is four months in, you know, kind of wherever you look, wherever you smell there it is your past.

2 (30m 58s):
It's like you broke up with someone who was horrible for you and then you leave your apartment and that person is on every street corner wafting their perfume at you, which was and remains intoxicating, literally. And then you go back to the confines of your apartment and you look out the window and there they are blowing kisses at a brick wall.

2 (31m 40s):
Now, I can't tell whether I'm talking about the metaphor or the physical reality. I actually may have stumbled into a really good though kind of worrying explanation as to why I'm not in the percentile, whatever it is of Alan Carr's success stories. I talked with a prominent psychiatrist who's had patients that use the method. So she's familiar with the book. Her name's Anna Lemke. She runs the Addiction Medicine Dual Diagnosis Clinic at Stanford. She also wrote a book called Dopamine Nation, which is where I learned that nicotine increases dopamine levels by 150%, which is 50% more than sex.

2 (32m 23s):
Yeah. I called her to talk science, but our conversation became a little like a therapy session at some points. Like I told her, there's this thing that happens in the shower when I first turn the water cold at the end. It makes you feel good after, not during. And weirdly, I don't just crave a cigarette right at that moment. It's this very specific sensation. Like I'm taking a big whiff from a glass ashtray that I just emptied, but haven't washed out yet. It's not a gross feeling. It's a wanting feeling. Cigarettes.

14 (32m 54s):
Does it happen immediately when you turn the feel first, feel the pain of the cold water? Yes. Okay. So that's very interesting there. There's a whole famous series of experiments showing,

2 (33m 5s):
She told me there were these studies done where they would take a rodent and get it addicted to some drug by letting it press a lever over and over again to receive that drug. But then if you take the drug out of the equation, it'll eventually stop hitting the button. 'cause what's the point? And then it wanders off to do other things in the cage to amuse itself. However,

14 (33m 26s):
If then you take that same animal and you expose it to a painful foot shock, the animal will immediately run over to the lever and wildly start pressing it. Wow. As a way to, yeah. Isn't that interesting? So I suspect that that is what is happening to you, that by having cold water showers, what you're doing is you're shocking your body with a painful stimulus, which is then triggering your automatic neurological safety and compensatory mechanism, which is to smoke a cigarette.

2 (34m 1s):
Whoa. That's wild. Wow. Yeah.

14 (34m 4s):
Yeah. You, in other words, you know, you've created an elaborate neurological circuit around smoking, and even months after you've stopped smoking, that neurological circuit is still healthy and firing away in response to significant stressors.

2 (34m 24s):
People talk about the, the physical addiction to nicotine and the psychological addiction to nicotine like that. That sounds physical to me that, I mean, it's, oh

14 (34m 37s):
Yeah, it's very physical.

2 (34m 44s):
All this time I'd been focusing on the damage that smoking had done to my lungs. 35 years worth of damage. I somehow hadn't thought in terms of doing that amount of damage to my brain too. That'll take a long time to repair. Anna Lemke told me, especially given my age, my brain isn't as plastic as it once was. And there's another school of thought, she said, a more depressing one, which wonders whether the damage could be so far gone. I can't repair it. It'll always be in this kind of state of perpetual neurological withdrawal, which might require some kind of intervention.

14 (35m 20s):
And in your case, that might look something like nicotine replacement therapies for life, potentially for life

2 (35m 27s):
At

14 (35m 27s):
High. What? What's that?

2 (35m 29s):
For life.

14 (35m 30s):
Yeah. For life. And potentially at higher doses than what you're currently taking. Huh? Wow. So yeah. So we used to use nicotine replacement therapy just to help people quit. But more and more we're now using them in the maintenance phase where people are just using them for years to decades. And again, the thinking there is that, wow, you know, the the ideal is that with sustained abstinence, your brain would heal and you would return to whatever your pres smoking baseline was. But in reality, what we see is that some people don't get to that place and that they may need some form of nicotine to feel and function Okay.

14 (36m 13s):
Going forward indefinitely.

2 (36m 16s):
Whoa. So it's possible that I've broken my, my brain sort of my, my, my dopamine receptors to the point where like they're just not gonna return to normal kind of.

14 (36m 28s):
Yeah, I mean that that's, that's possible. I mean, I don't like to say that your brain is broken, but I guess just to think about it a little differently, it just could be that you no longer have the brain plasticity to completely reverse the changes.

2 (36m 45s):
I had to listen back to that part of the interview a few times to fully feel the bomb drop of it. I know it's not an official diagnosis or anything, or even an unofficial one. I don't wanna overreact. But the impact is something like when I learned I have lung disease, permanent brain changes and lack of plasticity makes me think of aging, which makes me think of dying nicotine replacement for life for the rest of my life. How long is that gonna be? And still even assessing all of that damage, knowing all the havoc that smoking has wreaked on my body still, I wish there was some dimension in which I could keep doing it. If you're wondering, it's now been seven months and I still haven't smoked a cigarette.

2 (37m 29s):
Every now and then I almost wake up to it all over again, like I'm still not doing that. Talking with Anna Lemke confirmed this idea that had been pecking at me since I first read the book. Alan Carr says, there's only one kind of smoker and that any smoker can find it easy to quit. But I talked with a lot of people who had tried the method, folks that both worked for and didn't, and I just think there's different kinds of smokers. I think there's a certain kind of smoker like me for whom there's just a lot of anger lurking in it. It's like every hour or a couple of hours we climb up to the roof and fling ourselves off of it as a petulant, fuck you to being alive after all.

2 (38m 15s):
We started doing this thing when we were kids like 15, 16. No wonder there's such a delicious nihilism to it. For some of us, it's like my 15 year old fingers. Were still lifting the cigarette up to my 51 year old lips. I can't think of a lot of other behaviors that aren't associated with survival, but it's even the opposite of survival that I did every day for that long. There's a line in one of the additions of the book I have where Alan Carr writes, if health, happiness and freedom aren't enough to inspire you, then you have bigger problems than smoking. I underlined that passage and in the margin I wrote, this is possible coming up when you wish you knew how and whether to quit someone, and then you receive possibly the most well articulated relationship advice of all time.

2 (39m 18s):
That's in a minute. From Chicago Public Radio. When our program

The New York Times Cooking (39m 21s):
continues What generates clean power and a powerful economic boost, a VP's offshore wind strategic partnership with Ecuador could add up to 4.4 gigawatts of power on the East coast and revitalize the Port of Albany. These projects are expected to add $1 billion to New York's economy. See how else BP is investing in America at bp.com/investing in America. That's bp.com/investing in America. Hello, this is Wan Kafe from New York Times Cooking, and I'm sitting on a blanket with Melissa Clark And we're having a picnic using recipes that feature some of our favorite summer produce wan day. What'd you bring? So this is a cucumber AUA fresca. It's made with fresh cucumbers, ginger and lime. It's really easy to put together and it's something that you can do in advance. Oh, it Is so refreshing. New York Times cooking has so many easy recipes to fit your summer plans. Find them all@nytcooking.com.

2 (40m 26s):
This American Life. I'm Sean Cole sitting in for Ira Glass. Today's program, I can't Quit You baby Stories of being on the verge of a big change, not wanting to let go, and the people who give you that final push. We now present Act Two of our program, Act Two, A Spoonful of Sugar. When we were putting together this week's show, one of the other producers here thought of this advice column she read years ago where the person writing in wasn't sure if they should quit a relationship or not. It was the column Cheryl Stray used to do called Dear Sugar. Here's the letter, Dear Sugar. I'm in my early twenties. I've been in a serious relationship with the same guy for six years, on and off the off portion taking place when I was younger.

2 (41m 10s):
I have been very distracted and have been second guessing the relationship for a while now, but I can't come to grips with losing this person that seems to be right for me permanently. And of course I don't wanna break his heart. Then again, I don't wanna settle and have regrets later in life. I feel like we want different things out of life and we have different interests, but I just can't decide. I've talked to him about my feelings for the record, but to no avail. We went on this little break, but God knows, breaks never work. Basically, my biggest fear is being alone and never finding anyone that measures up. It doesn't help that my closest friends are settling down with their boyfriends and are talking about marriage cringe.

2 (41m 52s):
Honestly, I feel like marriage and that kind of commitment represents a loss of personal identity. I'm not sure why, but I would love your advice. Sugar, please help. Sincerely, scared and confused. Here's Cheryl Strait reading her response.

18 (42m 9s):
Dear, scared and confused. I lived in London when I was 20. I was technically homeless and desperately broke, but I didn't have the papers and American needs to get a job in London, so I spent most of my time walking the streets searching for coins that people had dropped. One day when I was searching for coins, a man in a business suit approached and asked me if I wanted an under the table job three days a week at a major accounting firm that has since collapsed due to corruption. Sure. I said, and this is how I became Coffee Girl. 1, 2, 3, coffee Girl was my actual job title.

18 (42m 51s):
The 1, 2, 3 was tacked on to communicate the fact that I was responsible for providing coffee and tea to all the accountants and secretaries who worked on the first three floors of the building. It was a harder job than you might think. Coffee girl, men would call as I, passed them with my tray, often snapping their fingers to draw my attention their way. I wore a black skirt over white tights and a black vest over a white shirt, and I was almost always outta breath banned from the elevator. I had to race up and down steps in a stairwell that ran along the back of the building to get from one floor to the next. That stairwell was my sanctuary, the only place where nobody snapped their fingers and called me coffee Girl.

18 (43m 38s):
During my breaks, I'd walk down to the first floor and go outside and sit on a patch of concrete that edged the building that housed the major accounting firm that has since collapsed due to corruption. One day while I was sitting there, an old woman came along and asked me where in America I was from. I told her and she said that years before she'd visited the place in America where I'm from, we had a nice conversation and each day after that, she came along. During the time when I was sitting on the patch of concrete and we talked. She wasn't the only person who came to talk to me. I was in love with someone at the time. In fact, I was married to that someone and I was in way over my head at night after I made love to this man.

18 (44m 25s):
I would lie beside him and cry because I knew that I loved him, but that I couldn't bear to stay with him because I wasn't ready to love only one person yet. And I knew that if I left him, I would die of a broken heart and I would kill him of a broken heart too, and it would be over for me when it came to love, because there would never be another person who I'd love as much as I loved him or who loved me as much as he loved me or who was as sweet and sexy and cool and compassionate and good through and through. So I stayed.

18 (45m 11s):
We looked for coins on the streets of London together and sometimes he would come and visit me at the major accounting firm that has since collapsed due to corruption while I was on my breaks one day he came while the old woman was there, the man I love, and the old woman had never come at the same time. But I had told him about her and I had told her about him too. Is this your husband? The old woman exclaimed with jubilant recognition When he walked up, she shook his hand with both of her hands and they chatted for a few minutes and then she left. The man I loved was silent for a good while, giving the old woman time to walk away. And then he looked at me and said, with some astonishment, she has a bundle on her head.

18 (45m 57s):
She has a bundle on her head. I said, she has a bundle on her head. He said back. And then we laughed and laughed and laughed so hard. It might to this day still be the time. I laughed the hardest. He was right. He was right. That old woman all that time, all through the conversations we'd had as I sat on the concrete patch, had had an enormous bundle on her head. She appeared perfectly normal in every way, but this one, she wore an impossible three-foot tower of ratty old rags and ripped up blankets and towels on top of her head, held there by a complicated system of ropes tied beneath her chin and fastened a loops on the shoulders of her raincoat.

18 (46m 45s):
It was a bizarre sight, but in all my conversations with my husband about the old woman, I'd never mentioned it, she has a bundle on her head. We shriek to each other through our laughter on the patch of concrete that day. But before long, I wasn't laughing anymore. I was crying. I cried and cried and cried. As hard as I'd laughed, I cried so hard, I didn't go back to work. My job as coffee Girl, 1, 2, 3, ended right then and there. Why are you crying? Asked my husband as he held me because I'm hungry. I said, but it wasn't true.

18 (47m 26s):
It was true that I was hungry during that time. We never had enough money or enough food, but it wasn't the reason I was crying. I was crying because there was a bundle on the old woman's head, and I hadn't been able to say that there was, and because I knew that that was somehow connected to the fact that I didn't want to stay with the man I loved anymore, but I couldn't bring myself to acknowledge what was so very obvious and so very true. That was such a long time ago. Scared and confused. But it all came back when I read your letter, it made me think that perhaps that moment delivered me here to say this to you. You have a bundle on your head, sweet pea, and though that bundle may be impossible for you to see right now, it's entirely visible to me.

18 (48m 14s):
You aren't torn. You're only just afraid. You no longer wish to be in a relationship with your lover, even though he's a great guy. Fear of being alone is not a good reason to stay. Leaving this man you've been with for six years won't be easy, but you'll be okay and so will he. The end of your relationship with him will likely also mark the end of an era of your life in moving into this next era. There are going to be things you lose and things you gain. Trust yourself. It's sugar's golden rule. Trust in yourself means living out what you already know to be true yours.

18 (48m 59s):
Sugar.

2 (49m 9s):
When that producer brought it up at the weekly story meeting, someone else said that she had read the same column and that it was what made her decide to divorce. Her husband said the same thing happened with a friend of hers. Read the column, left the relationship. This is what I'm talking about, about a kind of spell being cast. Cheryl told us that of all of the thousands of letters she's gotten in the 13 years she's had the column. This is the most common predicament people find themselves in all over the world. People are wondering, is it time to get out something like a third of all of her letter writers ask her this question. An adaptation of some of Sheryl Strait's columns is now streaming on Hulu.

2 (49m 51s):
It's called Tiny Beautiful Things. Our audio version of this column was produced by Diane Wu, Act Three, tender resignation. Sometimes the words that convince someone to quit a thing aren't like advice, aren't supportive, but they're just as effective in getting you to let go. Maybe more. So this next story is a case like that. It's from producer Zoe Chace

19 (50m 21s):
To start this next quitting story. I have to take you back a few months to November, 2022, election night. We ran a story about an election administrator. Lots of people with that job have quit in the last few years because of harassment and death threats from people who believed the last election or last elections were stolen. Not this guy, not Heider, Garcia in Tarrant County, Texas, home of Fort Worth. He'd never be driven out by conspiracy theorists. In fact, he'd figured out it seemed this rare way to work with them to invite them. In one example, during one election, one of the activists came in to where the votes are tallied.

19 (51m 2s):
And this activist was like, if I were in charge, I would make the walls glass so you could see the election machines and where every cable goes. Heider was like, okay, I hear you.

20 (51m 14s):
So I told him, what about if we rearrange the room so the machines are not like in this little cabinet under the desk, but up where you can see them and you can. He said, well, maybe that would be a start. So the next election, they came back in a runoff. You know, when they walked in the room, I told him, all the machines are on top of the tables. You can see the back. They're against the glass. They're labeled what each one of them does. This is what you wanted. Right? And so he had that moment of, okay, well you got me on that one. And it's little things like that that we keep doing right?

19 (51m 43s):
Heider gave out his cell phone to anyone who wanted it. There was this one activist in particular, Aubrey Campbell. She had this channel on Telegram about election fraud stuff, and she posted about Heider a lot and she called him all the time. She called him on election day.

21 (51m 60s):
So there's a picture going around and it's, and it, and it's purported to be a map of outages of all of the machines. Is that, are you having issues with that? I'm gonna send it to you to just so you see what this is all, I don't know.

20 (52m 15s):
Yeah, send it to me. I'll take a look. See what it is, please. That'd be great. Yeah.

19 (52m 19s):
He and Aubrey had built up a real relationship, even though they didn't agree on anything. She came by on election night to hang out and watch everything and ask more questions. Really seemed to me like nothing could deter him from this job. The reporter who brought his heider's story, Natalia Contreras, she talks about Heider's radical patience with the election. Conspiracists who used to fill his office and election administrators in the rest of the country, looked to hide her as a model for transparency, openness, efficiency. The Secretary of State of Texas back then, not a Democrat, very conservative guy, said to Natalia, last year, if you were building a prototype for an elections administrator, you would just copy Heider Garcia.

19 (53m 4s):
But on April 16th, 2023, Heider released a letter. It begins, gentlemen, please accept this letter as my formal resignation from the position as election administrator for Tarrant County. Five months after we ran that story, Heider had quit. Some people in the county were pretty upset. They spoke up at this public meeting. One of the people was Aubrey, a voter fraud activist who was always questioning him.

22 (53m 43s):
I was also shocked at Heider's resignation. I've been working with him. He is transparent. I wanna give him that credit. It is a loss because he's built these systems and he knows more about these computerized voting systems than most people on this planet. I don't think it's necessarily a win for the movement or for Tarrant County, but you know,

19 (54m 2s):
So what happens, and I do hope that Heider wouldn't talk about it for this story, citing his new job. He's on this federal election advisory committee now. But here's what we figured out, and a lot of this is based on Natalia's reporting for Vote Beat. It actually all started the night we were down there election night. One of the elections Hiter was overseeing was for who would be his new boss, A position called County Judge. The guy who would be in charge of Tarrant County. The winner was a man named Tim O'Hare. He heavily featured election fraud issues in his campaign claiming that voter fraud is rampant. It is not that the 2020 election was possibly stolen from Trump, it was not.

19 (54m 44s):
Heider had dealt with scores of election skeptics, but now one was his boss. One of the first things Tim O'Hare did when he got into office a few months ago, was set up an election integrity task force like he'd promised during his campaign to investigate election crimes. There was a big press conference.

23 (55m 2s):
We encourage everyone to report actions that they have concerns about, whether it's at the voting booth, whether it is

19 (55m 10s):
Heider was not consulted about the task force, and when the task force was announced, he was not there. A reporter asked if Heider was part of the task force.

23 (55m 19s):
The task force is made up of investigators and deputies. So he is, I I, I fully expect him to cooperate with it, but he's not part of the task force per se.

19 (55m 32s):
It's worth mentioning, even if you believe there is a major problem with voter fraud, which lots of officials in Texas do. Tarrant County got a special shoutout in the big 2020 election audit that Texas did for running its election so smoothly. A quote, quality, transparent election that was Heider. So the election integrity task force was one thing. They also fought over the budget. Money had been approved for Heider to buy an expensive attachment for a mail sorting machine, but O'Hare wouldn't vote to release the funds for it. There was an awkward back and forth at a public meeting with O'Hare questioning him, like, why was this necessary?

24 (56m 12s):
Is there, is there some other way that it's going to save money? Because that's not saving money.

20 (56m 18s):
No. Okay, no. That this is not an investment to save money. This is an investment to make a labor. Did you not

24 (56m 26s):
Say earlier that you thought it would save money?

20 (56m 28s):
Nope. No. No. I said, I don't even think that I Can come up with a number to save money. We're never gonna get $150,000 back in year one that that's not what I'm here to. It's an investment in a cleaner, smoother, more efficient operation, but it's not a case of saving money. I

24 (56m 40s):
Think this is a total waste. Okay.

19 (56m 44s):
This was a real change for Heider, the Golden Boy of Texas elections to a certain degree. What made Tarrant County elections so secure, efficient, and transparent was the pricey election equipment. So Heider was accustomed to getting his request approved. Heider's previous boss, a Republican once told vote beat. If Garcia tells us he needs something, then we're gonna get it for him. Around this time, Heider and Tim O'Hare met in his office where things clearly did not go well. Heider mentioned it at the end of his resignation letter, it ends. Judge O'Hare, my formula to administer a quality transparent election stands on respect and zero politics.

19 (57m 26s):
Compromising on those values is not an option for me. You made it clear in our last meeting that your formula is different. Thus, my decision to leave, I wish you the best. Tarrant County deserves that you find success. I reached out to Tim O'Hare. He didn't respond, but one thing that came out later on a radio show that O'Hare was on was he didn't like the way Heider talked to reporters at all. That seems like a central problem he had with Heider. He said someone had given him a public records request of Heider's communications and he didn't like what he saw in his texts with the press. Funny, that was my favorite thing about Heider. So it was one guy that got heder to go after dealing with countless voter fraud activists over the years, Heider and Tim O'Hare had a meeting and then Heider quit.

19 (58m 15s):
Or you could say it was more than one guy. O'Hare had been put in office by the voters in an election that Hydra had made. Sure was fair. Heider's last day was Friday, May 19th. Aubrey gave Heider a copy of the Federalist papers. She inscribed it. Thank you for your assistance with my current understanding of Texas election procedures. Please take time to relax and I hope you enjoy perusing these early writings of the founding Fathers. When we drove away from Heider's office that election night in 2022, I felt like we had witnessed this little scene.

19 (58m 57s):
That could be a model for how elections offices could be in the election conspiracy era, where the administrators and the skeptics would be able to, if not agree, at least coexist through elections, Heider running around, making sure his workers were getting what they needed. While all night long, this one woman in a red, white, and blue dress followed the ballot bags around with a clipboard, taking notes. It felt oddly peaceful, stable. I was kind of optimistic. Yeah. No. Six months later, I don't see it that way.

2 (59m 38s):
Zoe Chace is one of the producers of Our show,

8 (59m 42s):
Let's call it. Let's call it before. Let's call.

2 (1h 0m 2s):
The program was produced today by Aviva de Kornfeld. The people who put together today's show include Jane Ackerman, bi atmi, James Ben ii, via Benon, Chris Benderev, Jenai Bonds, Michael Comte, Valerie Kne, Mickey Meek, Catherine, Ray, Mondo, stone Nelson, Sarah Parrish, Nadia Raymond, Lily, Sullivan, Francis Swanson, Christopher Tala, Matt Tierney, and Julie Whitaker. Our managing editor is Sarah Abdirahman. Our senior editor is David Kestenbaum. Our executive editor is Emmanuel Barry. Special thanks today to Nikki Glaser, Jennifer White, William Gittis, Anthony Perillo, Vicki Merrick, Ben Kinney, AIA McCury, grace McCann, Julie Snyder, Rob Moore, Gary Hall, Jamie Knapp, and Miranda Suarez. This. American. Life is delivered to public radio stations by P R X, the Public Radio exchange.

2 (1h 0m 43s):
Our website, This American Life dot org, where we have all this new merch, great new T-shirts, lots of stuff. There's a beautiful illustration of our show's. Co-founder Tori Maltia on one of the shirts. Go check it out. This American Life dot org. Thanks as always. To my boss, Ira Glass. He was in the park the other day and he jumped into this double Dutch routine with some kids. It's like left, right, cross turned. It was a natural, killed it, and very proud of himself.

11 (1h 1m 9s):
I mean the, that's a very hard combo for most people to just drop themselves into.

2 (1h 1m 15s):
I'm Sean Cole back next week with more stories of This American Life.

25 (1h 1m 29s):
Next week on the podcast of This American Life. Luke is a kid who goes with his mom in Ukraine, but his dad goes in Russia, does him all the time. You're really Russian. So when Russia invaded Ukraine, Luca

26 (1h 1m 42s):
Was crying and saying, it's my fault. I'm Russian. So I called his father and I said, look, what have you done? Luca now thinks that it's his fault because he's Russian.

25 (1h 1m 52s):
One family ate, fights 'cause of war. Marsha Gsam reports next week on the podcast on your local public radio station.