PhRMA (0s):
This podcast is supported by pharma. Have you ever heard the term P B M? It stands for Pharmacy Benefit Manager, the middlemen who decide what medicines you can get and how much you pay at the pharmacy. The three largest PBMs denied coverage to more than 1,150 medicines last year. This includes medicines that could lower your cost at the pharmacy. No one should stand between you and your medicine. Visit phrma.org/middlemen to learn more.

1 (33s):
A. quick warning. there are curse words that are un beeped in today's episode of the show. If, you prefer a beeped version? you can find that at our website, This American Life dot org.

2 (44s):
From WB, e z Chicago. It's This American Life Americas back in the winter of 2022. In the days and weeks before Russia invaded Ukraine, there's one thing that most Ukrainians and most Russians had in common. They both insisted that war was impossible. War was unbelievable. And one reason it was unbelievable is that many families, possibly most families on either side of the border have family members in the other country, many Russians have some Ukrainian roots. Many Ukrainians have spent time living in Russia. Even President Zelensky, like many Ukrainians, grew up speaking Russian. He had a career in Russia, starred in Russian movies, performed comedy for Russian audiences.

2 (1m 24s):
Even Putin's seen him perform, caught him a good actor years ago. So when Russians did start the war, it wasn't just on the battlefield or in the airspace of Ukrainian cities, it was within families. This is something I had no idea about. The way a conflict like this might take the normal disagreements between people and blow them up. And when you think about it, like of course, right? It was the Raider, Masha Gessen who explained this to me. Masha was born in Moscow, moved to the United States as a teenager with their family. They moved back to Russia as an adult, to work as a journalist. They've written several books now, currently a staff writer at the New Yorker, And. what Marsha's put together today is a very unusual story where they try to capture what this is like by looking at one family and the Fights they get into related to the war.

2 (2m 12s):
So what you're about to hear is one family and eight fights. Here's Masha.

3 (2m 20s):
In normal times, we keep the peace in families by letting things go, by accommodating, by forgetting things or pretending not to notice things. But when war starts, even the quietest, most conflict avoidant people start fighting. Just before the war began on February 21st, 2022, two people sat at a long dining table in a Moscow apartment. These are my friends, Naja and Koran. They're at the center of this constellation of people I'm gonna tell you about. I've known Naja the longest since she was a college student in Moscow. About 25 years ago. She was tall, blonde, butch, very cool.

3 (3m 2s):
She still is. Soon after graduating in 2003, she moved to Kyiv. And there's Koran, a gay man, a friend I've known through many relationships. 12 years ago, Koran and Naja had a baby together. They lived in different countries, but it didn't seem like a big deal. Kaan was in Moscow, NA and Ukraine and Kyiv. So their son, Luka was growing up in Kyiv, but regularly visited his dad in Moscow. And on this night, all three of them were in Karin's apartment in Moscow. Luka had gone to bed. The adults were watching a speech by Vladimir Putin.

3 (3m 44s):
Putin was declaring war, so had a fight. Fight number one. Where does Luka go? Even before Putin's speech, Naja was ready. She didn't think the world would happen, but she'd made a plan for Luka if war broke out a plan she hadn't told Karen about until now.

6 (4m 13s):
By that time, I already knew that we're not going back to Ukraine. We already had tickets to Berlin.

3 (4m 19s):
And who said what? What was the argument?

6 (4m 22s):
Well, before he was saying nothing's gonna happen, then you exaggerating and things like this. But then he was like, okay, maybe something's gonna happen in Ukraine, but you definitely shouldn't, you know, take kid away to some other country.

7 (4m 40s):
I was like, if there are gonna be a war, it is safer to stay in Moscow.

3 (4m 46s):
This is current because

7 (4m 48s):
Nobody's gonna attack Moscow. I leave 10 minutes walk from Kremlin. I can't imagine the war can come into town.

6 (5m 3s):
He was saying, no, I want him to stay in Moscow. It's the safest place in the world. I don't want him to go to Berlin. And we actually, we didn't succeed too much in persuading him.

3 (5m 15s):
And she didn't push too hard because that wasn't her way.

6 (5m 19s):
I dunno, I just hate fighting. I just hate when it gets ugly. Whenever I even sense that this might be this situation. I just, you know, go in opposite direction. It would never actually get too far us to have a fight with someone. And I think I'm so used to this, it has been for years like this. So we just said, we're gonna go there for two weeks.

3 (5m 43s):
We as neither Luka and NI's girlfriend Sophie.

6 (5m 47s):
And only on two weeks he agreed. And everybody was like, yeah, two weeks. Of course, right? But then I called Sophie anyway and I said, take, take everything including the summer clothes,

3 (5m 60s):
Including the summer clothes. Now Sophie flies to Berlin with as much stuff as she can carry on a plane. Naia and Luka meet her there. Am I understanding this correctly that you're like talking him into two weeks because you're not gonna have a big fight with him?

6 (6m 21s):
Yeah, but it's just the story of our relationship. We're just avoiding the conflicts

3 (6m 27s):
All the time. Well, she is. This is how she's with everyone. So Naja and Luka leave Kran stays and Russia invades Ukraine. Kran is going to protest, but he's lost crying every day. After a few days he goes to a goodbye party at a friend's apartment.

7 (6m 53s):
And there, there were a lot of our common friends, I don't know, 15 people and everybody were discussing tickets when and where everybody's going.

3 (7m 5s):
I can tell you when this was, because I was there March 4th. And it's true that this was all our friends were talking about. There were rumors that Russia would close the border, impose martial law, conscript all the men, and just a general sense that she had to get out now or it'll be too late at the party. Caran started to get upset, like, wait, you were all just going to leave me here.

7 (7m 29s):
And that was the moment that I realized that if everybody's living, then I'm gonna do it as well.

3 (7m 40s):
So Cara and his boyfriend buy tickets to give you a sense of just how difficult it was to get out. By then they end up flying to lba, tour the capital of Mongolia. From there, after a few days, they fly to Seoul, South Korea, then to Dubai, then to Yvan the capital of Armenia where they stay for a bit fight number two, who is Russian and who is Ukrainian. To understand the roots of this next fight, we have to go back a long time to New Year's Eve 2010. When Karen and Naza met

7 (8m 21s):
My friend Vera, she introduced me to Naja saying like, this is Karen and he want to have a child and this is Naia and she wants it to, so please invite me when everything is done and you're gonna baptize your kid and I'll be his or her godmother. And that was it. And we were like, okay, let's talk. And we, several times we talked about it and we decided, yes, let's do it.

3 (8m 53s):
They were 31 and 28. They were both queer, they were both Buddhists, so they had that in common. Other than that, they didn't discuss any of the big issues of how to raise a child, what school he would go to, what languages he would speak, how they would explain the world to him. Nadia knew she wanted to raise him in Ukraine. She'd move there from Moscow. Years before this, Karen wanted to stay in Moscow, but he'd visit. They weren't exactly friends, they went straight to being co-parents. They figured they'd work it out. A few years later, it was time to choose a school for Luka. Naza had to make a commitment to the next 10 years or so of her son's schooling and the language in which he was going to study.

3 (9m 39s):
At the time, Kyiv had schools with instruction in Ukrainian, Russian, English, German, French. Naja was struggling to make a choice, but Qan had a definite opinion.

7 (9m 50s):
Of course, I was hoping that he will study Russian and he will read and write in Russian. I mean all his family, including his Ukrainian, part of the family speaks only Russian. And he's thinking in Russian, he never reads in in Ukrainian. So what's the point to try to like artificially implement the language that he doesn't use and will not use when he grows up?

3 (10m 29s):
Koran's kind of a funny one to be championing Russian culture. He grew up an outsider. His heritage is Armenian, Jewish Greek, and yes, I'm Russian. He has dark, curly hair and trimmed beard, a wide chiseled face, and a long, prominent nose. He's beautiful. He also doesn't look Russian at all. It's not easy to grow up in Russia when you don't look ethnically Russian. I know I grew up in Russia looking unru and I get teased, chased and beaten up a lot. Karen's name marks him as an Armenian. He had to fight for the right to be Russian Nazi.

3 (11m 12s):
On the other hand with her blonde hair and blue gray eyes growing up in Moscow. She certainly never had to defend her right to be there. She moved to Kyiv as a kind of experiment and found that she loved it there, became her home Kaan. And a lot of NA's friends though kept assuming she was in Ukraine temporarily. On this particular night, Kaan was a little drunk.

6 (11m 35s):
And that's when we started this fight. It was, we started over schools and then it went to that Ukrainian culture is not a culture and the language is not language and all that. And he went on and on. And at first I was shocked. And so he was like, he said many things. And then I was like, what? What? What do I supposed to do? Because I can't fight with him. I don't because I have to keep good relationship because he's Luca's father. So I was like, okay, please don't say these things because we Ukrainians. He was like, no, you not Ukrainians, you're Russians. You're from Moscow and he's Russian. And I was like, okay.

7 (12m 12s):
Yeah, of course I was biased and I'm still biased,

3 (12m 17s):
But biased. How

7 (12m 19s):
Biased toward Russian heritage. This is an important part of my identity. And I was convinced that this is an important part of his identity. Also,

3 (12m 35s):
In fact, Karen had always hoped that Nagel would move back to Moscow. Nagel had zero intention of doing that.

6 (12m 41s):
The thing is, I always hated the idea that he has to go to Moscow even over the vacation. And I never liked the influence it was on him.

3 (12m 52s):
Not that you said this to Karen, why start a fight?

6 (12m 55s):
Because all the time Luka was going to Russia for one month a year. His father was like insistently feeding him like you are Russian, you're not Ukrainian, you got nothing to do with UK Ukraine. There's no such thing as Ukrainian culture. The Ukrainian language is not good and there's this tremendous Russian culture. You should heading towards that. And then Luka would be coming back and saying, you no, I don't like to attend some Ukrainian holidays. Or where was Shivan kind of, why would you do that?

3 (13m 29s):
Abu Ivanka is a traditional Ukrainian embroidered shirt. Kran told me he didn't have anything against Ukrainian tradition in particular.

7 (13m 37s):
We all know that traditional costumes are just literally bad taste for like everybody. And no matter if this is Wanka or traditional Russian costume, we look down to that in general because it's silly because it has something to do with the nationalism. We all hate it always. Like at least we thought we hated.

3 (14m 6s):
There's a big difference between Russian and Ukrainian national costumes. The VO Ivanka, long before the war was a symbol of the Renaissance of Ukrainian culture and identity. After the fall of the Soviet Union, Ukraine was a former colony of Russia. Karen like most Russians was oblivious to this.

7 (14m 25s):
This is not about like Russia or Ukraine, this is about like sense of style

3 (14m 35s):
Kind of Tanja. It was about Karen's attitudes toward all things Ukrainian. He thought Kyiv was a backwater.

7 (14m 44s):
I hate to mention it, but he was visiting museums or theaters or concerts only when I was coming to Kyiv. And I took him to like same two or three museums. And not to mention theaters, there are almost none in Kyiv.

3 (15m 6s):
How much theater and and museums did you get when you were a kid?

7 (15m 15s):
Unfortunately, not too much. Not too many. Because I was born and raised in Siberia. In Kuka. And this is not like big cultural center.

3 (15m 32s):
Every parent wants to give their children what they didn't have growing up. Naja, unlike Karen, grew up in the center of Moscow in the very heart of the empire, in a privileged family. Karen couldn't believe she was willing to give up what he had so longed for as a kid. Naza for her part wanted to avoid conflict. So in the end, Luka didn't go to a Ukrainian school or a Russian school. He enrolled in a German school in Kyiv. When the war started, all those things that Luka had heard his father say that he and his mother are really Russian, these ideas hit Luka hard.

3 (16m 19s):
His father's country was bombing his motherland.

6 (16m 23s):
Luka was crying and saying, it's my fault, I'm Russian. So I called his father and I said, look, what have you done? Luka now thinks that it's his fault because he's Russian.

7 (16m 34s):
He felt that he's have this and have that. And now there is huge inner conflict inside of him because like to him, to his kids' mind, there was like one half of him is attacking the other half of himself.

3 (16m 57s):
Talking to Luka didn't help much. Maybe he could be convinced that the war wasn't his fault, but he was still stuck with this problem of being both Ukrainian and Russian. The war was tearing him apart. It maybe didn't help that he and his moms were still in the move. They finally landed in Lisbon. I

6 (17m 17s):
Was like thinking, maybe suggesting maybe you think you're gonna be Portuguese since we live in Portugal. And he was like, no, no, no, I'm German. I'm definitely German. I was like, why? And then the psychologist explained to me that at this age, they just pick the safest environment.

3 (17m 32s):
Luka had gone to German school in Kyiv. He was going to start attending a German school in Lisbon. Choosing Germany was a way to avoid choosing Ukraine or choosing Russia. A way to avoid choosing between his parents. I think Germany felt neutral. Fights number three and number four, Crimea and the globe. A few years back, surprise Nazi for his part of summer vacation, he suggested taking Luka to Crimea. Crimea had been under Russian occupation for several years. Once upon a time it had been a vacation destination for both Russians and Ukrainians.

3 (18m 14s):
But after the occupation, Crimea was off limits for Ukrainians.

6 (18m 18s):
And I was like, no, no, no, we we don't go to Crimea. And they were like, oh, saying, no, come on. Because the whole family of his father used to spend summer in Crimea. So they will continue doing that. and they were calling us and saying, can Luka come so our kids, the kids can spend time together. And I was like, yeah, I don't mind. But we don't go to Crimea, we Ukrainians because it's not our land. And there's the whole thing about it.

3 (18m 47s):
Imagine you live in a house and one day someone comes in with a gun and just takes over the second floor. And it wasn't a Bucha empty rooms, your cousin was living there. Now your cousin isn't allowed to talk to you. And suddenly your friend goes, Hey, let's go visit the guy who's living on the second floor of your house. I've always liked the view from there.

7 (19m 7s):
I never shared this point of view that you cannot visit a next territories. Well, I guess for Ukrainians it's completely different for them. If you go there, it means that you support the idea that creamier is part of Russia or the, there was legal,

3 (19m 35s):
You really couldn't see what the big deal was. They'd go there, support the local economy. After all the people of Crimea weren't to blame for being occupied.

6 (19m 44s):
There's no way I can explain what I feel. So the only way I could say, okay, doesn't matter what I feel. Probably you're right. But on the 1st of September, the kid would have to go to Ukrainian school. And then when they ask him how he spent the summer, and if he says he goes to Crimea, he, he's gonna be in big trouble.

3 (20m 4s):
That worked. The Crimean vacation was averted, but then came the globe. When Russia occupied Crimea, it printed up new maps and made new globes. It labeled Crimea as part of Russia. And as Nazi recalls, Caran and his boyfriend were coming for a visit and bringing a globe as a present for Luka. And on the plane they realized that this is a Russian globe. It showed Crimea as a part of Russia, this would be a problem when they'd land in Ukraine and have to go through customs.

6 (20m 39s):
And they got, they got really scared that the, somebody would decide to check it and they'll be in a big trouble. They'll be stopped and not allowed to enter the Ukraine because they brought the globe, globe with the Crimea being marked as part of Russia. So they were really scared, but it's, but they couldn't throw it away because it is a big thing to get rid of. It's really obvious. And you know, in the toilet, it's not even many places where you can live it. So they kind of had this poker face and they crossed the customs and nobody even checked.

3 (21m 10s):
They left the airport, they took a taxi to NI's house. They gave the globe to Luka. and they told the story of how they had this realization on the plane and were stuck with the globe.

6 (21m 20s):
And they, it was like the biggest joke. They would keep telling it to everyone. It was like, ha ha ha, fun. You imagine how stupid. And I was like stuck in with this thing in my house.

3 (21m 30s):
The global was Luka, but was Naje have felt stuck with it.

6 (21m 34s):
I I don't wanna offend your father's feelings, it's really nice, but it's, and it's your present. And I know if I throw away, it would be a huge scandal. So I was kind of saying I'm really, really sorry and I totally understand. But again, it might be some other people visiting, other Ukrainian people visiting my house and get offended. So I'm really sorry, but I'm getting read of this globe, this how it always been like this. I couldn't really say, what a fucking stupid idea. Why the hell you brought this globe, you know, to my house? Give it to your son. It was, I always have to be the long way after other people might get offended.

3 (22m 23s):
You know how people remember important events in completely different ways. In Karin's version of the story, there was no globe on the airplane, no fretting about customs. But there was a globe until there wasn't,

7 (22m 35s):
It's not there when I visited him and next time in Kyiv. And I was like, and where is your globe? And he was like, well, you know, there is a tiny mistake on that globe. So mama hide it from me. And I realized what kind of mistake and, but I never, I can't recall that there was any fight about it. Did she tell you that we've had fight about the globe?

3 (23m 4s):
No. No. She said that, she said that she felt compelled to tell you that she had to get it out of the house because Ukrainian friends would see it.

7 (23m 16s):
Ah, no. So nobody saw it. There was no problem. Right.

3 (23m 21s):
And did, did Luka actually say tiny mistake?

7 (23m 24s):
Yes, that was, it was so touchy, you know, so sweet of him. He, he was shy and was like, well, you know, there was a tiny mistake onto the globe. So I never told him like, what the, what the hell, you know, I didn't make any drama of it.

3 (23m 47s):
And, and you didn't ask Naja about it either.

7 (23m 50s):
Of course. Na it was clear that that's a problem.

3 (24m 1s):
Fight number five, Bucha. When the full-scale invasion began, it began with the unimaginable. Almost immediately, Russian tanks were right outside of Kyiv. Russian troops occupied the western suburbs. Ukrainians fighting to keep them out of the city blew up the bridge that connected the western suburbs of Kyiv. And that bridge is just a short walk from NAZA's house. Their town borders Bucha, a place that's become synonymous with Russian war crimes. Naja, her girlfriend Sophie and Luka were watching the invasion from a distance. and they were sick with worry 'cause that house was not empty.

3 (24m 43s):
Nada's father and Sophie's mother were there, along with two pugs and several cats. Were they safe? Were they alive? Nja posted on Facebook. We haven't heard from our parents in four days. I don't know how they're doing for food and water. They had a bit in reserve. I think they're probably afraid to fire up the stove. Is there anyone in the area who could show them a Safeway out Neither's father and Sophie's mother were the last people remaining in their gated community. They hung blankets over the windows. They had no electricity. And yes, they were scared. And here's the thing, their daughters could not imagine.

3 (25m 23s):
They were in love. They'd gotten together, they lived by candlelight. They made a fire in the fireplace and cooked shush kebab. When the shelling was heavy, they lay in bed holding each other and felt the house rocked back and forth. Finally, Nisa got a hold of some Ukrainian soldiers in the area who told her there was a way out. And they'd help the soldiers came to the house and told NI's father, let's call him Alex. He had half an hour to pack.

10 (25m 58s):
Oh, that's funny. I packed that I thought was particularly important. I took a coffee maker, a supply of coffee that I thought would last for six months, half a suitcase of coffee. Then for some reason I decided I should bring wine. And so I packed a suitcase of wine. And then I decided to take some things that I thought would dear to Nadia. For some reason, I took some of her Buddhist figurines.

6 (26m 29s):
It was a Buddhist statue from Ikea

3 (26m 33s):
With a Buddhist statue from Ikea. Yeah,

6 (26m 36s):
10 Euro Buddhist statue because it was standing in the kitchen and like in the middle of everything. And my father thought it's somehow valuable.

3 (26m 54s):
They also brought the two pugs. They left the cats behind with lots of food. They drove into Kyiv where they were joined by another couple and another pug. By this time, the car was so tightly packed with stuff on top of people and pugs on top of stuff. The doors could only be closed from the outside.

6 (27m 12s):
And they started driving. And it was really difficult with all these checkpoints. Everybody was like traumatized, obviously. And this Ophelia, the one park, she, she started to have a heat or whatever. Yeah. So they started to mate all the way. They were like driving, not sleeping with all these checkpoints. And there's, these two dogs just are fucking on the, on everyone, because they didn't have a space. So it was happening on everyone. And whenever they were trying to pull them apart, they were biting.

3 (27m 55s):
Alex dropped off Lena and the other couple, and the male pug in Western Ukraine and continued on to Eslava the capital of Slovakia, where he picked up Naja for the drive through the rest of Europe.

6 (28m 6s):
So it was my father and two dogs in really smelly and dirty car, full of some weird stuff. He grabbed from the house when he had half an hour

3 (28m 17s):
Nazi disposed of some of the junk, including the giant Ikea Buddha. Almost as soon as she got in the car, then they kept driving.

6 (28m 25s):
And so we were driving, driving and at some point there were, news came that about Butcher. We started getting the pictures.

3 (28m 34s):
Ukrainian troops had just entered Bucha after a month of Russian occupation. And. what they saw was bodies, bodies lying across sidewalks, bodies in the middle of the street, bodies with their hands tied behind their backs, demolish and burnt out houses, the charred remains of tanks and more bodies of ordinary residents of Bucha who had been executed. These were pictures of streets, Naja. And her father knew intimately. There was a park in Bucha where Naja used to take Luka. So Naja was in the passenger seat looking at her phone and seeing photos of the bodies. Then she and her father switched. She took the wheel.

6 (29m 15s):
So, and I saw, kind of mentioned this Bucha thing, and I said, do you know what happened in Bucha? He was like, no. So I told him and he was really surprised. And he was like, oh my God, really? And I was like, I, I told them all I knew and he was trying to figure it out in his head. And then he was like, no, I can't believe in this. This must be, you know, you have to check this information. It can't be true. And I was like, no, no, no, I already already checked it. It it was everywhere this morning and the sources are reliable. And he was like, no, no, no, it can't be. And he started giving me this lecture on Ukrainian propaganda.

3 (29m 55s):
Alex is Russian. He moved to Ukraine with Nija 20 years ago. They built a house together and he loved it. Now he was saying, who knows if what you're reading is true or if it's true, is it the only truth? And anyway, things are never so black and white.

6 (30m 11s):
And, and I was like, wait, wait, wait, wait. Let's not switch to, let's not discuss Ukraine propaganda. I'm telling you about the situation will happen in Butcher, which I consider my hometown

3 (30m 21s):
By suggesting that maybe things aren't so clear. So black and white. So knowable Alex was in fact doing what Russian Propaganda does. Its main message is that no one really knows what happened if you weren't there. You can't judge. Everyone has a vested interest in everything. No one is a reliable source. It provides people with a myriad ways to avoid the truth and no way to know it. But of course, Alex was there. He had just been there.

9 (30m 51s):
Yeah, but

10 (30m 53s):
I know, but inside out and I've seen what kind of destruction was there? It was horrible. I know of some absolutely awful things when soldiers would come to people's house when they turned all over their houses looking for weapons, looking for terrorists. And I even know of a friend, of a friend who went to get a bread. And when he was getting bread, he was shot and killed. And I know all of this, I well aware of this, but the thing is, when people talk about mass burs, about people shot with the hands tied behind their back, you know, as a scientist, I believe in facts.

10 (31m 36s):
But these events, you know, I just haven't seen this for myself. It's not that I can't believe in it, I just refuse to believe it. I refuse to believe that Russian soldier came and took civilians, that he tied their hands, took them all out, and then shot them all. I mean, that's just genocide to take people and tie their hands and shoot them.

10 (32m 17s):
Well, I just psychologically refused to believe in that.

3 (32m 21s):
So this was happening while they were driving through Spain, ni behind the wheel, reeling from the photos from Bucher that she had just seen and Alex in the passenger seat, arguing his way out of believing that the atrocities actually happened. And the thing is, NAZA and her father are very close. They moved to Ukraine 20 years ago together because Alex wanted to try living there. They built that house together, they lived together. And she had just lived through the hill of not knowing if he was alive or dead. And now these pictures from Bucha, they showed how close the danger had been and just how awful. And this was the moment Alex chose to use the language of Russian propaganda and say maybe things were not so black and white.

6 (33m 4s):
And I remember, 'cause we were driving through Spain and it was heavy rain. And then, then I said, please stop. Because if you were my father,

3 (33m 13s):
If you weren't my father, I would

6 (33m 15s):
Get you out of the car here, even though it's rain. And I said, please stop and let's never ever have this type of conversation again. And it was the silent for a minute. And then she said, blood is not water.

3 (33m 31s):
That's Russian for blood is thicker than water.

6 (33m 34s):
He was trying to, you know, ease this situation. But that's when I understood that it's serious between us. This gap,

3 (33m 43s):
They kept driving in silence.

2 (33m 55s):
Masha Gassen coming up after sending bombs and troops near to Nadia's house outside Kyiv, Russia sends her a bill that's in a minute from Chicago Public Radio. When a program continues

BetterHelp (34m 8s):
Support for This, American life comes from BetterHelp. Sometimes you're facing a crossroads in life and you don't know which path to take. Maybe you're thinking about a career change or feeling like your relationship needs some T L C, whatever it is, therapy can help you map out your future and trust yourself to find the best way forward. BetterHelp offers convenient professional online therapy on your schedule by phone, chat or video call. Let therapy be your map with BetterHelp. Visit BetterHelp dot com slash t to get 10% off your first month.

Indeed (34m 41s):
There are two sides to every story, but if you wanna hire great talent for your business faster, there's just one way to do it. You need indeed. They streamline hiring with powerful tools that find you matched candidates. Start hiring now with a $75 sponsored job credit to upgrade your job. Post at indeed.com/nyt offer good for a limited time. Just go to indeed.com/ny and support the show by saying you heard about it on this podcast indeed.com/nyt. Terms and conditions apply. Need to hire you. Need indeed.

2 (35m 11s):
This is Ira Glass, the host of This American Life. And I'm here because one of our producers has a brand new podcast. And it's the kind of story that when you hear it, you're like, I can't believe this really happened. It's about what went wrong to hundreds of women who got treatment at the Yale Fertility Center. It's hosted by Susan Burton, who's done some of the most memorable stories on our program, produced by our coworkers at Serial Productions and by The New York Times. It's called the Retrievals. Listen to the first one. I bet you get hooked again, the retrievals. Find it wherever you get your podcasts. It's This American Life from Ira Glass. Today's program, Eight Fights, if you're just tuning in, Masha Gessen is telling the story of one of the many families who have people on both sides of the border, between Russia and Ukraine and the family Fights they've gotten into since the Russian invasion so far.

2 (35m 57s):
ASHA's friend Nadia has fought with her kid's dad, with her own father. Masha picks up where we left off

3 (36m 4s):
Fight number six, about giving money to the Russian government by spring of last year. A couple of months into the war, something changed in Naza. Gone was the person who avoided Fights. It was almost as if she wanted confrontation. And it so happened that at this time, notices from the Russian authorities started arriving at Nigel's mother's apartment at Moscow indicating that Nigel needed to pay a fine, this was a fine she'd already paid, she had a receipt, but the Russian state, which was bombing Ukraine, wanted more of NA's money.

6 (36m 42s):
And then I've got a letter that I have to pay it again to the Ministry of Internal Affairs or something. And I was like, oh no, I'm not definitely paying no money to these guys in my life.

3 (36m 57s):
How much money are we talking about?

6 (36m 59s):
God sympathetic. Some probably about 10,000 Rual, which I dunno even how much money is there? I mean, it's not much.

4 (37m 12s):
It's

3 (37m 13s):
Under a hundred dollars. I think

6 (37m 15s):
Definitely under a hundred dollars.

3 (37m 23s):
Nazi wanted her mother to do something about it. Nazi demanded that she go to the tax office and appeal the fine. She wanted her 70 year old five foot tall mother to go up against the Russian bureaucracy over less than a hundred dollars. And she wouldn't let it go. She kept calling. Her mother understood why Naja was upset. She opposes the war too, but she's Russian. And she looked at this fine the way a Muscovite does. She thought Nagel should forget about it. She's saying, I mean, I live here.

3 (38m 3s):
All my taxes, all my money already goes to them anyway, so it's not a big deal for me. Naja knows that her mother opposes the war, but that's just the thing that's driving her crazy. That her mother is so resigned.

6 (38m 17s):
And I said that, you know this, the whole thing about your Russians, that you just can't be bothered and you pay money to this government because you can't be bothered not to pay. And this is why the whole thing is happening.

3 (38m 41s):
Fight number seven, the knees showdown. Five months into the war, Karen took Luka on vacation to knees, to the beach. I can sort of imagine how Karen was feeling. He spent five months in shock and in a scramble, immigrating, reorienting his professional life. And now here he was on vacation in France. The buildings in these are white, the sea and the sky are blue, and even the ships also white look like they're there to complete the postcard view. Nice is a place a lot of people from the Russian Empire had gone to about a hundred years earlier, fleeing the revolution.

3 (39m 21s):
And civil war. Caran must've imagined that they experienced the same combination of feeling dislocated and soothed by the beauty of it all. He took a picture of Luka at an outdoor restaurant table, his blonde hair blowing against the blue, blue sky. And he sent it to Naja with a caption, the latest wave of Russian immigrants in nice Russian immigrants. He wrote Russian immigrants,

6 (39m 47s):
You know, I was so angry, I took like five minutes to smoke a cigarette. And I was like, oh, calm down. I was like, he's not Russian. I wrote him and he replied, oh, neither all of us

3 (40m 3s):
By this current meant that ethnically, he himself was in Russian. And anyway, as they'd already discussed, this whole topic of nationality was messy.

6 (40m 13s):
And then I had another cigarette and I wrote, no, no, no, you are Russian and he's not. And He wrote whatever. And then I smoked another cigarette. And then I said, okay, no, I'm not gonna leave it this time. And I wrote him everything. But this time I was like, no, no, let's get it straight. We are Ukrainians. And I was like, now please let us, you know, be Ukrainians, because we want to be Ukrainian. We consider ourselves Ukrainians, and you are not. You are Russian.

3 (40m 49s):
Everything. Naja had kept bottled up for the last few months, for the last dozen years, came pouring out.

6 (40m 55s):
And then I felt, no, no, I can't stop now. I cannot stop. I have to get it out of my system.

3 (40m 60s):
Do you have those sticks?

6 (41m 3s):
I think, yes.

3 (41m 4s):
Can we look at them

6 (41m 6s):
Now?

3 (41m 7s):
Yes. She pulls up the photo from niece in her first text.

6 (41m 12s):
And then I go, I really don't wanna fight with you, but I really need to make it clear. And then I said, remember in Moscow, and you were really aggressive about Luka being Ukrainian school and insisting that he must speak on the great Russian language to read Sto another, the greatest Russian culture and all that. And Ukrainian, pathetic agricultural country has no culture. And you can stand that your son grows up in this pathetic place.

6 (41m 53s):
And each time after holidays, Luka were coming with his brainwashed that he's not Ukrainian. And Ukrainian is all bullshit and not his.

3 (42m 3s):
She brings up the Crimea vacation the globe

6 (42m 6s):
And fucking globe saying for Crimea. and they, I was depressed because of this several months I even had to go psychologist to talk about it.

3 (42m 20s):
I asked Karen to read his side of the conversation.

7 (42m 24s):
She like, send me a long message thing like, we are Ukrainians. We were always Ukrainians and we will always be Ukrainians in our home. Russians are killers and it'll be so until the war. And and I was like, okay. But I can recall our first, when we first met with you in Kyiv, she made jokes of Ukrainian life or Kyiv as a city. She was making fun of some little details. And I was like, okay, but remember, it's not just like my own problem with this colonial mindset.

7 (43m 13s):
You also had it when you just moved.

3 (43m 16s):
They had profoundly different recollections of some of the conversations they'd had early on in their relationship. Caran remembered Nazi making fun of some aspects of Ukrainian culture. Nagel remembered herself delighting in it. Now Karen was the one who didn't want to fight. He texted back.

7 (43m 36s):
Each

13 (43m 36s):
Of us have our own path, our own traumas, and our own evolution. 12 years of my relationship with you is also 12 years of my relationship with Ukraine, with all imperial ideas, internal xenophobia. So please don't judge me so harshly,

3 (43m 54s):
But Naza couldn't stop

6 (43m 56s):
And I can't do anything with this horrible rage. And your son has to live with his mother, which hates all Russian in the world and in herself. So at least please allow him not to be Russian and not to suffer from this. That's what we heard. And then he's been really sweet. I know what you feel, blah, blah, blah.

7 (44m 28s):
Here

13 (44m 29s):
We have approached the most important part. Maybe you won't believe this, but every day I think about you and how painful this is.

7 (44m 43s):
I

13 (44m 43s):
Understand how the war and pain cements your Ukrainian patriotism. And I respect that your personal history is your own business. I won't tell Luka at anything. She'll come to understand everything himself one day.

6 (44m 58s):
And that's it actually. But, and that's it. That we were done. I mean, I said everything I always wanted to,

4 (45m 6s):
No,

3 (45m 8s):
What does it feel like reading this now?

6 (45m 11s):
It's actually, it's much better than I thought. I, I actually, I thought I was really aggressive because I've, I've really felt, but it's, it's really cool.

3 (45m 24s):
Cool. In what way? What are you seeing?

6 (45m 28s):
I, I, I don't regret anything I said. Not a word. I didn't lose it before. All these years I've been too patient. And that's it. I think it got the point.

7 (45m 51s):
It's hard. I mean, I couldn't imagine that it would insult her and I regret it. And, and it's hard to not just to,

3 (46m 15s):
To admit your mistakes.

7 (46m 16s):
Admit. Yeah. It is not even hard to admit those mistakes. It is even harder to realize that you had those mistakes as your mindset for such long time.

3 (46m 31s):
Can you describe the mindset? I asked him if he wanted to switch to Russian.

13 (47m 1s):
It won't be easier.

3 (47m 2s):
Okay. Either way,

13 (47m 6s):
This is difficult. You know, a lot of what Naja remembers from this argument for

7 (47m 15s):
Us,

13 (47m 16s):
These were simply the theoretical conversations about history.

7 (47m 20s):
But

13 (47m 21s):
As it turns out, the very things that, that me and others were talking about in this way, in this theoretical manner, they're now used as official reasons to justify the catastrophe, the atrocities. And these are words

7 (47m 43s):
That

13 (47m 44s):
You spoke that came out of your mouth and now it makes you want to rinse it out with bleach and close it forever.

3 (47m 58s):
Now, Karen asked himself why he had taken these ideas for granted even why he a Greek Jewish Armenian Russian had never questioned speaking the Russian language.

7 (48m 10s):
And I, at that time, for the first time in my life, I'm like 41 years old. And this is the first time when I asked myself, what about me? Why I don't speak any of those languages and why I always answer that I'm Russian to anybody else and to myself.

3 (48m 33s):
And also why had he spent so much time and effort insisting that Naja and Luka were Russian

7 (48m 40s):
Since now it is a burden for him. Unlike like, oh no, forget it. Just leave it. You don't need it anymore. And let's pretend there that you are not Russian at all. If it makes your life easier, you don't need to be.

3 (49m 1s):
Would you prefer not to be Russian too?

7 (49m 4s):
No, sorry, I wouldn't prefer that. I can't even imagine it because this is my country and this is my culture. This is my problem also, this is my drama because I don't want to hide my identity. I don't want to try to escape from the responsibility I do have as a Russian person in this war.

3 (49m 47s):
So let me sum this up a little bit. You were never accepted as Russian by Russians. You live in exile. The Russian government has declared you a foreign agent.

7 (50m 4s):
Yes.

3 (50m 5s):
And you consider yourself Russian.

7 (50m 11s):
Does it sound like a sort of schizophrenia?

3 (50m 22s):
Qan is a journalist and an L G B T Q activist. Two things the Russian government hates most. That's why he's been designated a foreign agent. Nija and Kaan both felt better after that niche fight. They'd clear there, NAZA felt heard. Kaan felt like he'd understood something. For one thing, he understood why Naza said that she and Luka were Ukrainian and how important that was. Their relationship improved. And also a new NI had emerged. One who told people what she really thought, except when she didn't.

3 (51m 9s):
Number eight, the fight that wasn't Naja comes from a long line of diplomats. Her grandparents were diplomats and her mother really hoped Naza would be a diplomat too. Which brings me to NI's stepfather. The man who was present for most of Nigel's childhood. Naja adored him. She calls him dad. She never called Alex that long after he and Nigel's mother divorced, they stayed in touch as Naja became an adult. They spoke less often, but every time he called it was like they'd seen each other just yesterday. And he was also a diplomat. In fact, he still is a diplomat, a Russian diplomat who is still working in a high post.

3 (51m 54s):
And after the war started and they fled to Lisbon and she got Alex out of Ukraine, NAIA was starting to dread her dad's phone call. The call she'd always looked forward to her birthday is at the end of May. And he always called this time, she'd have to assume that their conversation was monitored. So if she told him what had been happening for her since the war began, even if all he did was listen, that could get him in trouble. But what if he didn't just listen? What if he said the sort of thing a man in his position is expected to say, defending the invasion, justifying it.

3 (52m 34s):
She was scared. He'd say something unforgivable. She was scared. She'd say something that would get him in trouble. She was also maybe scared. She'd say nothing and regret it.

6 (52m 46s):
He's quite old, so he'll be retired. So, so he, he's got like a few years left and he achieved what he was always wanted since he was a child. And I mean, it's, everything he's got is really, I know it's important for him and it's his job and he can't do anything else.

3 (53m 7s):
He has the option of retiring now.

6 (53m 10s):
I dunno. I, I really, I don't doubt that he's a fantastic person and whatever happens to him, I just hope he's, he's gonna be all right. I just really don't wanna hurt him. Him and I feel really sorry for him. And I think he's in a really complicated position and I think he, he's really sorry and he's suffering in a way

3 (53m 37s):
He didn't call. I thought this would be a story about how war makes everything black and white. It does. I've seen it. And everyone you heard from in this episode has seen it. Long suppressed disagreements become Fights to the death. Fuzzy lines turn into firm boundaries. Nothing is left unsaid. It's true. Most Ukrainians I have interviewed in a year and a half of covering the war have heartbreaking stories about their relationships with family in Russia. But who was I kidding? When our family conflicts ever resolved decisively, when our family stories ever black and white, neither, for instance, could have a weeks long fight with her mom about giving less than a hundred dollars to the Russian government.

3 (54m 30s):
She contemplated throwing her father out of the car for being unable to face the crimes in Bucha. She flew into a rage in response to the way Karen captioned a photo of Luka. But she wasn't going to say a word to her stepdad, who's actually serving the Russian state An Epilogue. The Russian. Ukrainian war has been going on for more than 500 days now. Just Sophie and Luka are still living in Lisbon. Karen is in Berlin. A few weeks ago, the Russian government added him to its list of extremists and terrorists.

3 (55m 14s):
This means that he will be arrested if he ever tries to go back to Russia. When the announcement came out, NAZA called him and said, you're one of us now. Alex and Lena NAZA's father and Sophie's mother returned to Ukraine. After Russian troops were pushed back from Kyiv, they fixed up the house and taken the blankets off the windows. They're still very much in love. The cats weathered their absence. Fine. The rest of the separate log is going to be about Luka. 'cause most of these Fights were about him. Luka turned 12 earlier this year. He wanted to get a Harry Potter cake to bring to school. The Knight just suggested they get a blue and yellow one instead.

3 (55m 55s):
The colors of the Ukrainian flat. And he agreed. When Luka heard that I was interviewing his parents, he volunteered to talk to me. But when I asked him about specific conflicts from the past, the S Ivanka fight, the Crimean vacation fight, the globe fight, He drew blank.

15 (56m 20s):
I mean, I remember it was in one of my birthdays that I was giving a globe, but it was kind of broke. I dunno, I don't remember any globe.

3 (56m 36s):
The Ukrainian flag kick was not his idea. But Luka has been standing up for the Ukrainian flag in his own way. He plays video games online with other Russian speaking kids.

15 (56m 47s):
There is a game there where you have to draw and there are people there. Some of them draw the Russian flag and somebody draws the Ukrainian flag. And then at some point in the chat room, they argue why Ukraine is better, why Russia will win, and so on and so forth.

3 (57m 8s):
I asked him, do you participate in these arguments?

15 (57m 16s):
If I get a chance, I'm a hundred percent. I'm fighting for Ukraine for real. And now I consider myself a hundred percent Ukrainian. I wouldn't feel comfortable living in the same country as Putin.

14 (57m 32s):
Putin

3 (57m 34s):
A year and a half ago. So many things about Luka and his life, lifeboard contested. Where was he going to go for war began and for how long? Who was he? Russian Ukrainian. Both German. Now he's Ukrainian, but a Ukrainian who plans to live in Germany when he grows up. If he has children, he'll raise no speaking Ukrainian. He told me though, that he may need to hire a tutor.

2 (58m 11s):
Masha Gsen is a staff writer for the New Yorker and the author of several books, including The Future is History. MA's Story in today's program was produced by Valerie Kipnis and some Russian journalists, Andre Zenko and Liko Kremer, the co-founders of the podcast company, LIBO Libo, which makes podcasts in Russian.

2 (58m 52s):
This story is a co-production with them. Our first, their website, LIBO libo.me. The people who put together today's program include Bi Ney, James Bendit ii, Zoe Chase, Michael CTE of ebitda, Kornfeld, Cassie Howe, Seth Wind Stone, Nelson, Ryan Ery, Alyssa Ship, Ikes Re, Raja Maissa, Robertson Texter, Matt Tierney, Nancy Dyke, and Diane Wu. Our managing editors, Sarah Abdurahman, our senior editors, David Kestenbaum, our executive editors, Emmanuel Barry. Special thanks today to Misha Alkin and Mark Kipnis, who you heard doing English voiceovers Otto Sophie Paqua and Heram Yana Vera Yana Madrina, and Stefan Steinberg. Our website, This American Life dot org. You can stream our archive of over 800 episodes.

2 (59m 34s):
We're absolutely free. Also, we have on there now new merch, including genuinely wonderful Tori Malala t-shirts. Take a look, you'll see what I'm talking about again, This American Life dot org. This American Life is delivered to public radio stations by P R X, the Public Radio Exchange. Special thanks as always to our program's co-founder, Mr. Troy Malatia. You told me recently, that's it. No more pasta, no more rewatching the Godfather. No more Gba Goul. No,

6 (59m 58s):
No, no. I'm German. I'm definitely German.

2 (1h 0m 0s):
I'm America Glass. Back next week for more stories of This American Life. Next week on the podcast of this American Live, we go to the beach with an unlikely beach doctor.

2 (1h 0m 43s):
One man's lonely fight against the Speedo and David Sedaris.

16 (1h 0m 47s):
I used to think the ideal name for a beach house was the ship shape. Now though, I had a better idea. We are going to call it the C-section.

2 (1h 0m 59s):
We go out in the sun and onto the sand this week.