Dignity Memorial (0s):
Support for This American life comes from Dignity Memorial. When something's important, a wedding, a vacation, a child's education, we plan for it in advance. Your celebration of life is no different. A prepaid funeral plan protects your family because no one should have to plan for a loss while they're experiencing one. Dignity memorial's compassionate professionals will help you plan a memorable service in advance with an attention to detail that's second to none, so your family doesn't have to learn more@dignitymemorial.com.

1 (34s):
A quick warning, there are curse words that are un beeped in today's episode of the show. If. you prefer a beeped version? you can find that at our website, This American Life dot org.

2 (44s):
From WB, e z. Chicago This. American Life. I'm hour glass. Okay, so you call hotline and then a complete stranger tries to figure out how to help you on the spot. That idea seems to have begun in the 1950s. The first suicide hotline in the United States was created in the early sixties by a guy in San Francisco who was a priest and also a journalist. And It was just him answering the phone at first ads on matchbooks and sides of buses. Said, thinking of ending at all, called Bruce, which by the way was not his real name. His real name was Bernard Mays. But of course, the power of anonymity is so important to any hotline people would call and sometimes he could help them precisely because he had no connection to their life at all.

2 (1m 30s):
Like they could say anything to him. And there's pre-internet days. That was completely new to harness that kind of anonymity, the intimacy of it this way over the phone these days. Of course, there are all kinds of hotlines for people in all sorts of situations. Prayer hotlines, psychic hotlines. Also hotlines for homework help for new moms. There's a hotline for owners of three legged dogs, and another one specifically for anybody who swallows one's little, you know, there's little round button batteries. That hotline also handles any kid who pushes it up their nose. Today we're gonna devote our entire show to one phone call that happened on one hotline, very unusual hotline.

2 (2m 14s):
And then we have everything that followed from that one call. It takes you inside this world that I think either you're already in this world or it's totally invisible to you, like it's all around you. You don't even register that this world is there. Mary Harris tells what happened. She's the host of Slates Daily News podcast. What next? One quick note. Some parts of this phone call might not be great for young children to hear. I suppose I could have given you this warning before mentioning that part about pushing batteries up your nose. But anyway, here's Mary with Act One. The Call. The.

3 (2m 48s):
Call in this story took place a few years ago. Thank

4 (2m 52s):
You for calling.

3 (2m 57s):
It's a call to a hotline of sorts, though one I'd never heard about before and was surprised to learn existed. This is the music you hear when you're waiting for an operator.

5 (3m 6s):
I tried to break free. You tried to keep me down. I tried to live right. You tried to keep me down, but now I'm going

6 (3m 13s):
Never use alone. It's Kathy.

7 (3m 16s):
Hi, my name's Kimber.

6 (3m 19s):
How are you?

7 (3m 20s):
Good, how are you?

6 (3m 22s):
I'm good. Let me catch your name one more time.

7 (3m 25s):
Kimber.

6 (3m 26s):
That's what I thought. Okay.

3 (3m 27s):
The woman taking this call, her name's Jessie. She's a nurse and she's taken thousands of these. Alright,

6 (3m 34s):
Let me get my book. Kimber. I've never talked to you before. I'm glad you called. Have you called us before?

7 (3m 44s):
No, this is my first time. Oh, I just went outta rehab yesterday and I don't wanna use that myself.

8 (3m 52s):
Okay, what are, all right. So what are you going to, what are you going to use Kimber and how are you gonna use it?

7 (3m 58s):
I'm injecting heroin. Okay. Probably fentanyl.

8 (4m 4s):
Probably Fentanyl, okay.

3 (4m 6s):
The hotline is called Never Use Alone. And the idea is if you're gonna inject heroin or do a speedball, something like that, and there's no one around, you can dial them up. Someone will stay on the line, make sure you're okay. If it seems like you've overdosed, they'll call the paramedics.

8 (4m 24s):
All right, let me get some information.

6 (4m 26s):
Okay baby.

7 (4m 27s):
Alright, give

6 (4m 28s):
Me your callback number in case we get disconnected.

3 (4m 31s):
Jessie gets the caller's phone number and address just in case she has to call the ambulance. The caller Kimber is in Massachusetts. Jessie is down in Georgia.

6 (4m 42s):
You got your door unlocked?

7 (4m 44s):
Let me check. Hold on. Yeah, it's unlocked now.

6 (4m 51s):
Okay, so next. Sure. I'm on Speaker phone.

7 (4m 54s):
Yep.

6 (4m 55s):
Alright. Are you, you're by yourself in your home, in your apartment? Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Do you have Narcan?

7 (5m 2s):
I do.

6 (5m 4s):
Set it out for me.

7 (5m 5s):
Okay.

6 (5m 6s):
And if you've got anything else extra that you don't need to do your job, If, you just picked up If, you got some extra rigs, put away anything you don't need. Okay?

7 (5m 18s):
Okay. Because

6 (5m 20s):
God forbid I have to call the ambulance. You, I, they'll take your shit when they leave and don don't want them to do that.

7 (5m 27s):
Okay. Hold on, let me put everything away. Then in the bathroom there's like a bunch of stuff out.

6 (5m 32s):
Yeah, just, just, you know, like close the door,

8 (5m 35s):
You know, or whatever. Just don't leave it

7 (5m 36s):
Right where you're at.

6 (5m 42s):
How long have you been abstinent?

7 (5m 45s):
About a month.

6 (5m 47s):
Okay. So you know your tolerance is in the dirt, right, baby?

7 (5m 51s):
Yeah.

6 (5m 52s):
Okay. All right. So I'll stay on. Listen. So I'll stay on the phone with you. If, you wanna just, I mean, If, you wanna do points at a time or half a point at a time? We'll take it as slow as you want. Okay. If, you would feel better video chatting Me? I, we can do a g or something. Okay.

7 (6m 15s):
That's okay.

6 (6m 17s):
Okay.

10 (6m 19s):
So you can hear like, in the beginning, I'm, I'm upbeat, I'm happy to talk to her. She's,

3 (6m 26s):
I spoke with Jessie, the nurse, but

10 (6m 28s):
You hear my voice change, like I, yeah. What is that? That the, she was speaking with some speed, with some urgency. I just, I knew she wasn't gonna be careful. My mama spirit kicked in immediately. It's a sixth sense that you develop when you do these calls when you can

3 (6m 51s):
Say she's not like connecting with you. She's like, she's like, just, I'm here to get this done.

10 (6m 56s):
She was there to do a job.

6 (6m 58s):
So all I ask you to do is you let me know as soon as you push your first dose, you let me know that you're done. Well, I

7 (7m 7s):
Have to hold my breath for a second 'cause I have to do it in my neck. Okay? I'm not gonna be speaking for a second, but I'll

6 (7m 13s):
Let you. Okay.

3 (7m 14s):
So her neck,

10 (7m 16s):
She's going, and you can inject in your external jug in your external jugular vein. But to do that, you have to hold your breath.

3 (7m 24s):
Is that because like you do that when your other veins are like blown out? You're using terminology. I don't understand like half a point a point. What does that mean?

10 (7m 35s):
When they hopefully weigh their dope? Hopefully when you weigh your dope out, they're using a scale and they measure it out in grams. Point one is zero, is is a 10th of a gram. Point two. I mean, you know, that's, you know, drug user lingo for, we'll, nickel and dime it right on in there.

3 (7m 59s):
Small doses are one way to try to stay safe when you're using a drug like heroin or fentanyl. But the truth is, you really have no idea what you're getting if you're buying drugs off the street.

7 (8m 11s):
I said I just need a second because I gotta find a vein.

6 (8m 14s):
That's fine. We're we're, we're in no rush.

7 (8m 18s):
I just have really bad eyes, so it's like really hard to do. Oh, god,

6 (8m 23s):
Lord. Yeah,

7 (8m 24s):
But like all the veins on my arms are like shocked.

6 (8m 29s):
Yeah.

7 (8m 33s):
Okay. I'm, I'm pushing it in.

6 (8m 35s):
Alright, slow and easy, baby.

7 (8m 37s):
All right, I'm pushing and I'm letting the turn.

6 (8m 41s):
Okay, baby.

7 (8m 48s):
Okay, I think I'm okay. I'm good.

6 (8m 51s):
All right, well, we gonna stay on the phone for about five minutes, okay?

9 (8m 54s):
Okay.

6 (8m 55s):
And then If, you want to do more? Then you can do a little bit more. Okay.

3 (9m 3s):
All right. Sometimes a personal call in wanting to talk with her regulars. Jessie knows the names of their pets, keeps track of their birthdays, but her main job is just to stay on the line and check in every now and then. For this call, she was sitting at our kitchen table. Her husband walks in at some point for help with the Ziploc bag, but every minute or so she's trying to get a read on Kimber.

6 (9m 27s):
You good?

9 (9m 28s):
Yeah.

8 (9m 30s):
Okay.

3 (9m 32s):
About 60 seconds later, Jesse checks in again.

6 (9m 36s):
You okay, honey? Kimber Kimber Kimber Kimber. I'm gonna call your name about one more time and I'm calling an ambulance. Kimber Kimber.

6 (10m 19s):
You better answer me. Kimber,

3 (10m 26s):
What are you thinking in this moment?

10 (10m 28s):
I'm hoping that she just walked away from the phone. I, I try, I try to give them 30 seconds, 30 seconds. 30 of the longest seconds of your life. I try to give them 30 seconds to, oh shit. I'm sorry. I walked away from the phone or my head. My earbuds disconnected or I hit the mute by accident or I, you know, that's, that's what I try to do. 30 seconds.

11 (10m 56s):
North Adams public safety. The sign's recorded.

12 (10m 58s):
1, 2, 5, 1 from North 9 1 1 transferring a operator from the overdose prevention crisis line requesting ambulance in North Adams, Massachusetts. I have the address of apartment one upstairs.

11 (11m 13s):
What's the nature of the request?

8 (11m 16s):
The caller became unresponsive while on the line with me.

11 (11m 21s):
Okay. Do you have any reason to believe they may have taken any narcotics?

8 (11m 26s):
We're, we're an overdose crisis line, so it's possible.

11 (11m 31s):
Okay, ma'am, can you gimme any specifics in terms of the age of the potential patient?

8 (11m 35s):
The female, her first name's Kimber. K I M B E r. Okay.

11 (11m 40s):
We're gonna get help in Ru ma'am If, you happen to get them back on the line or gain anything further, please call us right back, okay?

8 (11m 46s):
Okay. Yeah, I've got The Call merged in. Yeah.

11 (11m 50s):
Okay. Can you hear anything in the background ma'am? No,

8 (11m 52s):
I, no. Anything up on my end? No. Lemme call her name. Lemme call her name again. Kimber baby. Answer me Kimber. No, no, let's, okay, I'm gonna get multiple agencies and route to us this, okay? Okay. Her front door's unlocked. Okay. Thank you for letting us know. All right. Okay.

9 (12m 16s):
Bye.

8 (12m 19s):
Kimber, baby, I got you some help coming.

3 (12m 22s):
Jesse stays on the line and then after a little while you can faintly hear in the background over the phone. Someone shouting. Anybody home?

9 (12m 32s):
Anybody home?

3 (12m 33s):
The ambulance got there just three and a half minutes after Jessie disconnected from 9 1 1.

9 (12m 41s):
You awake,

3 (12m 42s):
Jesse hears him say You awake, then move that suitcase, move that suitcase, and then she hangs up. It is easy to read the statistics and still not be able to imagine what the overdose crisis looks like in this country. More than a hundred thousand people die from an overdose each year. That means that Americans are now more likely to die from an overdose than from a car accident. This hotline's purpose is simple and very single-minded. It's not to get people sober or push them into treatment, it's just to keep people alive.

3 (13m 25s):
One injection or snort after another. I wanted to know what it was like for everyone. The callers and the people like Jesse who sit there while someone uses knowing they could die right there on the phone. Jesse talks to people week after week and sometimes they just stop calling. Maybe it's because they're not using anymore. Maybe it's because they're gone. Actual overdoses on the hotline don't happen that often. And Jessie had no way to know what went on. After she hung up that day with Kimber, she kept answering calls on the line, tried to distract herself. She says she probably walked around her yard, poured herself a Sprite. Then she got a text from a pretty close friend of hers, a guy named Steven.

3 (14m 9s):
He's a paramedic, so he sees a lot of overdoses. She has him in her phone as bruh.

10 (14m 14s):
He said, what up homie? I said, I said, oh, just living a dream, taking some calls. And to me, UA calls, what you doing? He said, oh. He said, you know, I'm at work today, right? And I'm like, oh, I forgot today's Saturday.

3 (14m 27s):
Steven works in Massachusetts,

10 (14m 29s):
Texting back and forth. I was like, oh

14 (14m 31s):
Yeah, I had to, I had to never

10 (14m 32s):
Use a long call. I had an overdose call in Massachusetts today.

3 (14m 35s):
Immediately her phone rings. It's him like, instead of texting, he wants to talk. She answers.

10 (14m 43s):
He said, where?

14 (14m 46s):
I said, I said, hold on. I don't remember. He said, bitch, where? I said, bitch. I said, hold on.

10 (14m 51s):
I got to go get the book. Damn. I opened the book, north Adams, Massachusetts, the SOB that left this man's chest. I'll never forget, he said, that was me.

3 (15m 19s):
Act Two, Steven, Steven Murray, the paramedic who responded to that overdose call. Jessie took, he had a lot of jobs before working in an ambulance, each with a very different uniform. The first was a black T-shirt. He was in a metal band, then a suit and tie. When he was in college, he ran for a seat on the village council. And one being a paramedic meant wearing a button up with SS Murray on one pocket and a badge above the other. He carried his dispatch radio pretty much everywhere, which is how he got The Call that day.

16 (15m 55s):
So it came in as a unresponsive, possible overdose. That's all we really got. And when I heard the address, I was like, oh, that's really close by.

3 (16m 5s):
It was right up the hill from the ambulance station, basically on the same street.

16 (16m 10s):
We're only like 0.4, 0.5 miles away. So I like jump in.

3 (16m 16s):
How many people?

16 (16m 18s):
It was one engine company, three police cruisers, and two ambulances. We get there and I'm looking at the building and it's, there's multiple units within the, this big house.

3 (16m 31s):
He bangs on the door, doesn't hear anything, then he sees a little stairway, runs up, finds another door, which is unlocked. He lets himself in.

16 (16m 40s):
I'm like, hello? Anybody here? Like e m s with the cops there behind me, they're yelling out and I'm looking around and I get down this hallway

3 (16m 51s):
At the end there's a little bathroom

16 (16m 54s):
And I find a girl laying on the ground or a woman laying on the ground. She was very small and she looked really young and she was blue. And so I was like, crap,

3 (17m 9s):
Why hold it? Why?

16 (17m 10s):
Well, because nobody's there and she's blue. When someone's blue. I know they're not breathing.

3 (17m 15s):
You thought you were too late?

16 (17m 16s):
Yeah. That's where my mind went immediately was that here's somebody who's alone, she's blue on the ground and I find her pulse and it's quite slow, so it's like in the forties. So I turned to the cop and said, she's got a pulse. The bathroom is quite small though, and I am big and it's really hard to work on somebody when you can't kneel down next to them. And so I put my arms under hers and I drag her into the living room, down the hallway to the living room. And at that point, the rest of my crew had brought all of our equipment upstairs. So they were like, they came up and put down our bag next to me.

3 (17m 57s):
If they'd gotten there a few minutes later, it might've been too late, but now they had a chance. Steven's got a particular way. He likes to handle overdoses that he feels is easier on the people being revived because he's thought about this a lot. If they do come to, it's gonna be a very strange experience. Some random guy leaning over, you face upside down and If, you just give someone a big dose of Narcan, it'll throw them into withdrawal. People sometimes wake up angry, they'll have a massive headache because they might not have been getting oxygen to their brain. That lack of oxygen, that's what'll kill you in an overdose.

3 (18m 40s):
So Steven starts by fixing that.

16 (18m 42s):
So I grabbed the bag, valve mask out, hooked up to oxygen and start to breathe for her. And in the meantime, I directed one of my staff members to draw me up to pull out Narcan and, and put a, a needle on it. 'cause I like to give it intramuscularly 'cause I can control the dose better.

3 (18m 58s):
He has the police stand in another room while he works.

16 (19m 1s):
Well, because the thing is, I've seen people come out and vomit and feel unwell. And when I first started e m s, I remember like the police would be standing over them. Like, what did you use? Like yelling at them. I started to think about like, what is that environment like when they wake up? If it's, if there are too many people in the room, I will like tell people to go wait outside.

3 (19m 25s):
So Steven's kneeling over Kimber's head, squeezing oxygen into her lungs, one breath at a time. Then he gives her the smallest dose of naloxone just to see how she'll react.

16 (19m 37s):
Her collar improves, her oxygen saturation comes up and she then wakes up.

3 (19m 45s):
Do you remember what she said to you?

16 (19m 48s):
She looked upset.

3 (19m 51s):
Upset despite all his effort, but alive. There's a conversation Steven sometimes has with people. He's revived. doesn doesn't remember where it happened with Kimber, but often it's in the back of the ambulance where the driver can't hear. The patient will say something like, you're so much nicer than the other EMTs. And then Steven will explain, I've been in your shoes. So Steven, the person who revived Kimber from her overdose, he'd also survived an overdose.

3 (20m 32s):
Let me tell you what happened. Steven started using drugs sometime after he stopped touring with that metal band. He had been straight edge then, so no alcohol, no drugs. But then he went to college, university of Miami. And academics had never been his thing.

16 (20m 48s):
The people that I like fell in with my, my group of friends we all met, like at this, the tables that were outside the dorms and we like would smoke cigarettes outside. It was like this thing. And the guy that used to sell us our weeded, he was great. He was just like this really cool, like I I don, I can't even describe him. He was like, he would show up with a fishing tackle box full of drugs. It was like a menu, right? And like he knew that I was like, I had been struggling a bit.

3 (21m 22s):
A friend of the group named Kelly had died recently. She'd fallen off a balcony, really kind of rocked Steven's world.

16 (21m 29s):
And so he was like, oh, like if I remember right, he was like, oh, you should try. This will make you feel better. And that was like oxycodone.

3 (21m 37s):
So drugs became part of Steven's very busy life. He's gonna school working a campus job. He had also won that seat on the local village council.

16 (21m 46s):
At the time they were saying I was the youngest elected official that that had ever happened in South Florida. don don't know if that's like verifiable, but that's what, that's what people were saying about me. And like, and here I am, like using drugs the whole time.

3 (22m 0s):
He used in his car before talking to TV news before bed, he would lay out lines of Oxy for when he woke up at night and withdrawal. It was the only way he could get back to sleep. And he was getting way too skinny.

16 (22m 12s):
I used to wear like bag ear clothes. When I would talk to my parents, this is like the era I, when Skype was a thing and I used to put under eye concealer on my eyes to 'cause the, I have like sort of naturally dark circles under my eyes. But because I had lost so much weight and was so sunken in, they were very like pronounced. And so I would put like under eye concealer on before I would go on camera with my parents. Wow. And actually like the camera would be faced backward where I had all my like accolades on the wall, like certificate of election from like the board of elections. And like, I got a letter from a congressman congratulating me on being elected and like, just like those things like behind me, but on the other side of the camera, my life was chaos.

16 (22m 57s):
So yeah,

3 (23m 1s):
Steven thinks he probably OD'ed twice, somewhere in there. But luckily he came to on his own. None of that stopped him. His family at some point had an intervention, which he said you could see a mile away. Like he walked into the room and everyone was sitting there and no one was saying anything. And he was like, oh, I know what this is. But he felt relieved to be found out. He only had to go to rehab once. But recovery was a long process. Steven tried various jobs, ran outta money, went back to living with his folks. They were retired in western Massachusetts where he noticed they were looking for volunteer firefighters. So he signed up and for some reason it stuck

16 (23m 43s):
In my head and in my mind I'm like, like I'm Steven the addict. Yeah. And like now I'm Steven the firefighter. And it was like, I'm a firefighter. That's pretty cool.

3 (23m 56s):
Eventually he became a paramedic. Steven's experience with addiction is not what made saving Kimber so emotional for him, though. It was something else. Back when Steven was using, his drugs were coming from pain clinics known as pill mills. But by the time he became a paramedic, many of those had been shut down. More and more people were getting drugs off the street. That's when fentanyl entered the scene. Fentanyl can be 50 times stronger than heroin. It was causing these cluster overdoses. Steven would see them from his ambulance. He'd have days where he'd go to five ods, one after another.

3 (24m 36s):
He was seeing more people die too. One case stuck with him, everything went wrong. They were at the station when he got The Call.

16 (24m 45s):
And the, the street address that was given, we'll say for example, that was three 13, like 3 1 3. And we get there and there is no 3 1 3.

3 (24m 55s):
This isn't that uncommon, but usually someone hears the sirens and comes out, says, we're over here.

16 (25m 2s):
And so in this particular case, like that didn't happen. And so we just start to go knock on doors and look. And so like that went on. We knocked on a bunch of doors and like nobody ever came out. And so the other thing that dispatch will try to do is they'll, they'll try to call the person back repeatedly. You know, nobody answered on The Call back. And so, you know, eventually we have like finite resources. And so the next calls are coming in and like we have to move on

3 (25m 34s):
A little while later, a different call comes in a call about a dead body. A woman, Steven hears the location and realizes this was the overdose victim from that original call. In fact, Steven had knocked on her very door. Whoever called 9 1 1 the first time, they'd mixed up the numbers. So it wasn't 3 1 3, it was 1 3 3, something like that. So when Steven and the cops fanned out, went house to house, Steven had craned his neck to look in the window of the right building, but he just couldn't see the woman who needed his help. She was just out of view.

16 (26m 12s):
She was right around the corner from the, from the door that I had looked in. And I just thought to myself like, I was like six feet from her. And like when I got there, she was probably, you know, we could still have saved her. And that was actually somebody that I, I had reversed an overdose on in the past. I hadn't stayed like in like a, in real touch, but like she worked in the community. So I would see her sometimes.

3 (26m 41s):
Steven played this over and over again in his mind, looking for ways it could have gone differently. He understood that whoever called 9 1 1, they were doing what they could to keep this woman alive. But they were also scared, scared that when someone like Steven showed up, there'd be trouble. So they left and in the end it was leaving this woman alone that killed her. It meant Steven couldn't find her. That overdose call solidified something for Steven with the drug supply getting more dangerous, keeping people who use drugs safe meant making sure they weren't left by themselves.

3 (27m 21s):
It was sometime around then that he heard about the never use alone hotline and it immediately made sense. So he got involved Zoom meetings, stuff like that. That's how he met Jesse to get the word out where he was. He made these little cards.

16 (27m 36s):
I like made this like simple design on Vistaprint and like, you know, I'm not a web designer or a graphic designer, so it like, looks terrible. But basically it was like, this is the Massachusetts line, here's the number, this is what we do. And so I used my like credit card and bought like 5,000 of those. He

3 (27m 54s):
Convinced programs that give out clean syringes to include these never use alone cards in their kits. Steven had no idea if any of this was really working. A lot of times he had talked to drug users who said what? I'm gonna call up some stranger. Tell him I'm about to inject dope. Are you kidding? But a few hours before he revived Kimber, she had gotten one of these cards bundled up with the stuff she'd picked up at a needle exchange. That was why she called. That was the thing that saved her life. Steven didn't know that though. When he dragged her outta the bathroom that day and started giving her rescue rests, there was a cell phone right next to her.

3 (28m 34s):
He just didn't put two and two together. After Kimber opened her eyes, Steven told her she had to go to the hospital for observation. That meant she had to do this walk of shame down her front steps and climb into the back of the ambulance. It was nearly summer, but she put on her big winter coat, pulled up the hood, Steven started packing up before he left the scene. He went to check in with his crew.

16 (28m 58s):
So they had the back doors of the ambulance open. And I stepped up into the back to, to talk to them. And I, it, it dawned on me again like, oh, she was alone. So I said something along the lines of like, you know, whoever was here with you called and left and you need to tell 'em never to do that again. They need to stay with you until we get here. And then she said, I wasn't with anybody, I was alone. And then I said, well then who called 9 1 1? And then she said, I called and if use alone hotline.

3 (29m 33s):
Oh my God. He thought when he got back to the station, that's when he started texting Jesse. And that's when it all kind of came out of him.

16 (29m 42s):
When she told me that she was the operator. Like I started crying. Like I couldn't believe it. Like we sobbed on the phone together. I was in, I was in my office, like there was this like conference room thing that I was in and I had the door closed and I was talking to her and I'm just sitting there like crying with her. And you know, it was just, I was like, wow.

3 (30m 7s):
Steven says, over his time as a paramedic, he pronounced maybe 30 people dead from an overdose. All of them were alone. Kimber was alone too. But she had the line, the line had worked. It's so rare to find something that actually protects people once they're dealing with an addiction. But even when you save someone from an overdose, it doesn't mean they'll stop using. In fact, usually they don't. The morning after Steven revived, Kimber Jessie sent her a text. Hi. She wrote, I'm so thankful you called. She sent this with a little smiley face and a green heart emoji.

3 (30m 50s):
Within a couple of hours, Kimber wrote back, she thanked Jessie, asked how many times she got Narcanned. Then Kimber says, I wanna use again this morning. But I'm terrified. If you use again today, Jesse replied, the likelihood of you ODing again is almost guaranteed.

2 (31m 18s):
Mary Harris coming up. What's Jesse Steel? Also a fight in a Krispy Kreme parking lot. That's in a minute from the Chicago Public Radio Warner program continues

Stops  (31m 31s):
Support for This American life comes from Stops the Point and shoot film camera app for the iPhone. Remember those cherished film photos your parents took? The ones with colors and textures that digital photos just can't capture. Stops brings that magic back. Making your images feel like they've been plucked from a decades old photo album. But with the ease of a tap on your screen, recapture the nostalgic charm of film photography with stops at f.co/stops. That's e f.co/stops. Or simply search for stops on the app store.

BetterHelp (32m 4s):
Support for This. American life comes from BetterHelp online therapy. The lights are out, it's quiet, it's time to sleep, but your mind is going a mile a minute stressing about everything in your life. Sound familiar? Whenever they strike racing thoughts distract you from what you need to focus on, therapy can give you a place to work through them so they don't keep you up at night. Get a break from your racing thoughts with BetterHelp. Visit BetterHelp dot com slash t today to get 10% off your first month.

0 (32m 34s):
Hey, it's Anna Martin

17 (32m 35s):
From The New York Times. And I'm here to tell you about something for New York Times news subscribers called New York Times Audio. An app where you can get the latest in news culture cooking and more. It has exclusive shows. Storytelling from serial productions and This American, Life Sports from the Athletic and narrated articles from the Times and Beyond New York Times audio. Download the app at ny times.com/audio app.

2 (33m 5s):
This American Life Ira Glass. Today's show The Call the story of one phone call to one telephone hotline at its aftermath. So Kimber, we did keep using and kept calling the line and a lot of times she was connected with Jessie, which brings us to Act Three of our program. Jessie. Again, here's Mary Harris.

3 (33m 27s):
Jessie is kind of the backstop for the entire hotline, the whole operation. If none of the other operators are available, The, Call automatically go to her. And she pretty much always picks up. Sometimes she'll even give someone her cell and say, just call me directly. She did that with Kimber. It's like she can't help herself.

10 (33m 47s):
Oh, I got a call. Okay.

3 (33m 49s):
I went on to visit Jessie at her home in Georgia to watch her work. You

18 (33m 53s):
Have an incoming call,

10 (33m 55s):
Never use alone, it's Jessie

3 (33m 57s):
From the second I walked in. She was taking calls still in her house, dress and mismatched socks. The vibe was organized. Chaos. She takes in strays seven cats. One is missing an eye, a chihuahua and more chickens than she can count.

10 (34m 13s):
It's look at my, look at our eggs.

3 (34m 15s):
Hold. Those are from

10 (34m 16s):
Your chickens. That's, yes. Those are the eating eggs we've got eating eggs.

3 (34m 19s):
They lay their eggs in the garage.

10 (34m 21s):
I can show you when. Come back in. So don don't

3 (34m 22s):
Have, I wanted to know how Jessie a nurse had ended up spending so much of her time on this line. And at some point in a pause in the conversation, she said this,

10 (34m 34s):
My child has called this line before.

3 (34m 40s):
She was talking about Kaylyn Kaylyn's 23, her only kid.

10 (34m 45s):
She's the most magnificent creature I've ever met in my life. She's also the iest bitch I've ever met in my life. She's magnificent. She's magnificent.

3 (34m 58s):
Kaylyn has overdosed a dozen times and counting. Have you picked up the phone and it's your

10 (35m 2s):
Daughter? No. She'll let me. No. She would let me know that she was calling. Hey mom, I'm gonna call the line. Thanks for letting me know. I don't, I th I I think I know that I could cut it off. I could cut the mama off. I could keep the mama cut off if she become unresponsive. I know I could do what I have to do. But what if I couldn't?

3 (35m 31s):
Watching her daughter nearly die again and again is kind of how Jessie came around to a whole new way of thinking. And the hotline too. She tried for years to force her daughter to change. She wanted her to finish school. She wanted her to go to rehab. She wanted her to come home. But wanting all that, never made anything go differently. It just made Kalen push her away. Now for her daughter, she really only has one goal. It's the same goal she has for her. Collars don't die. Jesse's serious about this goal and this one goal only. She literally has a tattoo on her forearm.

3 (36m 12s):
That's a bird taking flight. It's carrying a banner in its beak with a single word on it. Fucks as in I don't give a fuck. My fucks are flying away. Jessie told me this one story about a time Kaylyn pulled up in front of the house with a bag of dope and a couple of friends. It was late at night, just Jessie and her husband at home. Kaylyn called her from the driveway.

10 (36m 34s):
I said, what are y'all doing? She said, well, mama, we just picked up from a new guy and we're not real sure if it's safe or not. I said, so. I said, so y'all gonna sit in my front yard and use dope in a car? I said, how the hell? I said, how am I, what am I, what am I do for y'all in a car? Kaylin? And I heard her. She said, I told y'all we could go inside. I said, yes. I said, you're either gonna come inside or you're gonna get out my yard. I said, I can't. I,

3 (37m 4s):
My friends didn't believe her. I, they came in and she watched as her daughter injected herself at her kitchen table. I had so many questions about this approach. I'm a parent. I know how hard it is to stop wanting things for your kids. Stop protecting them. Stop pushing them towards some imagined better future. The implications of abandoning that wanting were so radical to me. I asked, what if Kailyn never stops using drugs?

10 (37m 38s):
If, if, if, if what she wants to do is continue to use, she should be alive and healthy to do so. If what she wants to do is, is one day kick and going and do something else, she should be healthy and alive to be able to do so.

3 (37m 52s):
Do you even see her like no longer using permanently as a goal?

10 (37m 59s):
I don't know. I honestly don't think about what Kaylyn Wheeler won't do. And I honestly don't. don don't mean this to sound like it's gonna sound. I really don't care what Kaylyn does. As long as she don't die, that'll be great. That's it. We can work with anything but death.

3 (38m 21s):
It must've taken you so long to get there.

10 (38m 26s):
Took a fight in a Krispy Kreme parking lot one morning, right, right there where y'all stay. You go down to the end of Dawson, I beach. Y'all go to the end of the Dawson and take a left to come to my house. It's a Krispy Kreme donut shop right there. It it took a fist fight in crisp cream parking lot for me and her to come to this place.

20 (38m 39s):
What happened? What was it over?

10 (38m 41s):
I hadn't seen her in weeks. Hadn't heard from her. She was hiding from me. 'cause every time I talked to her, I was, I was giving her the business. You know, you're gonna come home, you're gonna do this, you're gonna do that. She yelling at her, making her feel like crap. People who were using substances who are in the place that she is, they feel bad enough about themselves. They don't need us to help them. Okay? So she would change her phone number. She would hide from me. I wouldn't see her. I'd ride an hour every morning before work. I'd ride an hour at lunch and I'd ride an hour and a half every afternoon when I got off. I would ride three and a half hours every single day, Monday through Friday to try to catch a glimpse of my baby.

3 (39m 14s):
You were just literally right around town looking

10 (39m 16s):
For her. Literally right around town in the places that I knew she was trying to catch a glimpse of my baby. One morning on the way to work, I saw her. She doesn't remember this. She was, she was that altered. But I saw her walking across the between parking lot and I drove across five lanes of traffic, me and that little Jeep. And I ran up on her and I was excited. And I guess I ran up real fast and she had her earbuds in and I touched her. I grabbed her shoulder. I meant to touch her shoulder. But I grabbed her shoulder. And when I did, she turned around and hit me. And being from West Tennessee, I hit her back. So for a few seconds, she forgot I was her mama. And I forgot I was her mama.

10 (39m 56s):
And when we got through fighting in the crisp green parking lot, she, we were both bleeding. She threw her hands out to the side and she said, mama, what the fuck do you want from me? And I threw my hands out and screamed back what I've said a thousand times to you today, If, you could just not die. That would be great. And that's when it hit me. Just don't die. That was literally the moment, the moment my brain shifted. Because even standing there bleeding, I was looking at my baby and she was okay. And that moment, that was all that mattered.

3 (40m 33s):
Remember Jesse was on her way to work when all this happened.

10 (40m 36s):
I was in my nursing uniform going to teach. I'm a, I teach collegiately. I was going to lecture, I was going to stand at my podium looking my very best, my very best professional nurse that I could possibly look going to teach all these baby nurses. Did

20 (40m 51s):
You go to work?

10 (40m 52s):
I did.

20 (40m 54s):
Wow.

10 (40m 55s):
I did.

20 (40m 57s):
What did you say

10 (40m 60s):
The truth?

3 (41m 2s):
She told them exactly what had just happened. After that fight in the parking lot, Jessie started getting needles for Kalen. Then she ordered Narcan. She got a big box to distribute around town and inside was a never use loan card. Jessie saw it and thought, huh, good idea. I heard about never use alone. When I ordered my own Narcan from the New York City Department of Health, you have to go to a training before they'll send it to you. The training tells you how and when to reverse an overdose. And one of their PowerPoint slides mentioned the hotline at the time, I imagine never use alone with some official thing like 9 1 1.

3 (41m 48s):
But it's nothing like that. It was started as Jesse puts it by a bunch of drug users who were tired of watching their friends die when she first volunteered to answer calls. The screening process to be an operator consisted of talking to one guy to see If. you were a fit. The very same day she picked up her cell and got connected to someone who was about to get high.

10 (42m 10s):
I said, hello. He said, I'm trying to reach never use alone. I'm like, oh shit, I guess you did. 'cause I didn't know what to do. I mean, I knew I needed to get his address. I mean, that was kind of the no-brainer, right? But outside of that, I was like, he's like, well, are you gonna get my information? And I'm like, what information do I need? He's like, oh God. He said, he said, you're gonna let me die. And I'm like, well, I mean, it seems that way right now. So help me out.

3 (42m 37s):
In the years since Jesse's set up a whole system, a script that operators can use a training regimen, but this organization is still basically run on a Google doc and a prayer. I hung out while Jesse took one call after another, over two days.

10 (42m 52s):
Never use alone. It's Jesse.

3 (42m 54s):
The calls were intimate, sometimes joyful. One guy talked to Jesse for like half an hour about his life, where he was going over the weekend. His girlfriend, his health.

10 (43m 4s):
You do good. You drink an ounce of water for every kilogram body weight. Did, aren't you? Didn't we figure that up? The last time I talked to you?

3 (43m 11s):
Another guy felt guilty for taking up Jesse's time. He tried to have everything ready to go when he called and he apologized afterward.

10 (43m 19s):
Listen, if it wasn't for people like you calling people like me wouldn't have nothing to do. I'd be bored as hell. I am so glad you called me.

3 (43m 28s):
He told her he tapes Narcan to his arm and sits on his porch after getting high. In case he passes out, he hopes his neighbors will find him. There was no recovery talk sprinkled throughout these conversations were little reminders of how scary things are for the people who need this line. Jesse gently admonished one caller who told her he'd used on his own a few hours before without letting her know,

10 (43m 54s):
You didn't call me. You know, my heart would be broke if something happened to you.

3 (43m 59s):
I know that he says, I know.

10 (44m 1s):
Okay. Okay. Just, just call us. It's not a bother. Even if it's a tiny amount, okay? Even if it's a tiny amount, it's okay. You're worth it. You're worth it every time. Okay?

3 (44m 21s):
It's notable that everyone in this story has some kind of connection to addiction. The people who started the hotline, Steven, the paramedic, Jessie with her daughter and actually Jessie herself 20 years ago. She had a real problem with opioids.

10 (44m 37s):
I did.

3 (44m 40s):
Back in

10 (44m 40s):
2002, I'd had a surgery and my doctor put me on Oxy thirties. I'm a nurse. Anytime I called for a refill, I got one

3 (44m 54s):
For Jessie. There was no rock bottom moment. But after a couple of years, she started running outta pills and she didn't wanna risk her nursing license to get more. She quit cold Turkey, spent three days sick on her bathroom floor, then it was over. Jessie says her daughter Kalin started using years later when a boyfriend introduced her to heroin. Jessie wonders about why a lot. Everyone has a why. Jessie says Kaylin's. Why she thinks sort of has to do with her, their particular mother-daughter relationship. Jessie can be a hard ass Kalyn too. When Kalyn got pregnant at 15, Jessie thought Kaylyn's boyfriend was bad news.

3 (45m 36s):
So she blocked him and his family from calling Kalyn cell. Kalyn was pissed. She threatened to move out one morning. Jessie told her to go ahead and do it, so she did. They'd see each other every once in a while, but it wasn't the same.

10 (45m 51s):
You know, I, I found out I was a grandmother through a text message when I had been at the hospital for two days, you know, with her while she was in labor, you know. But she sent me home and said, you know, I'll be fine. I'll let you know when something starts happening. And I found out the baby was here through a text message.

3 (46m 12s):
Oh, that's so hard. That's so hard because it's like you go back and you're like, don don't know. Like, what should we have done?

10 (46m 21s):
Don? Don't go back and have any regrets. I did the best I could with what I had at the time. That's all I got.

3 (46m 32s):
Yeah.

10 (46m 33s):
When, when it became overtly obvious that I was really not doing my best, that I was making things worse between, between me and her, because we were always so incredibly close. And when I realized, all right, you're fucking this up, you gotta find a different way. You gotta do something else because this right here is not working.

3 (46m 59s):
Over the years, Jesse's watched Kalyn go back and forth. She'll have months of sobriety then return to use. Kaylyn's been picked up by the cops, had her photo posted on the local police department's Facebook page while I was visiting Jessie called Kaylyn up. Kaylyn said she'd come by to talk, but she never showed. I think Kailyn's part of why Jessie takes so many of these never use alone calls. It's people like her daughter. On the other end, she told me as much

10 (47m 28s):
I didn't want her to die. This whole thing is about this whole, every, every, every, every fucking thing I do is about her not dying. About her not dying. Then about her and her homie not dying, and then about her and her homie and their homies dying. And now it's about the entire town not dying.

3 (47m 56s):
When Jesse took that call from Kimber, listened to her OD on the line, she knew better than to expect that moment to change Kimber's life. And the next day when Kimber thanked Jesse for saving her and then quickly followed that up with, I want to use again. It didn't surprise Jessie. In fact, for Jessie this was good news. It meant she could encourage Kimber to keep using the line and it was an invitation to stay in touch. So she did. She friended Kimber on Facebook, texted her for no reason. A few months after her od Kimber started calling Jessie mama. But Kimber would also drift away. When she did that, Steven and Jessie would try to keep track of Kimber online, what she was liking and commenting on Messenger shows her active.

3 (48m 41s):
Six minutes ago, Jessie texted Steven at one point. She hasn't even read my message. I text her phone, nothing. Yeah, he replied, she's been leaving me on red. Like she'd seen his message but hadn't replied. A month later, Jesse tried Kimber again. Hey, I haven't heard from you in a while. I hope that means you're good. She texted two days later. Hello. Are you good? A day after that. Hi, this is Jesse B in case he lost my contact. It's not like you not to respond. I'm going concerned. She added a heart emoji. Press send and hoped for the best.

3 (49m 30s):
Act, Four, Kimber. While Jesse was checking in with Kimber by text and Facebook, Steven the paramedic, he was trying to help out i r l. After all, he and Kimber lived in the same town. Steven got Kimber back into rehab, then he offered to get her into job training. A few weeks after her overdose, he posted a picture of the two of them on Twitter. Kimber had shown up at Steven's July 4th barbecue. A few months after that though is when Kimber went silent for Stephen and Jesse. Weeks went by then months. And then Jesse got a text from a number.

3 (50m 10s):
She didn't recognize it. Read. Hey Jesse, it's Kimber. I just wanted to give you my new number. Jesse replies. Oh hey. Hi. Four exclamation marks. Kimber was alive.

10 (50m 25s):
Is this gonna bug you? No, you're

22 (50m 27s):
Good.

3 (50m 29s):
This of course finally is Kimber. Kimber lives in Vermont now. She's been sober for one year. The place she calls home is a tidy duplex where she lives with her little gray dog, Luna. And not a lot else. She didn't bring anything with her when she left Massachusetts where she OD'ed two years back.

22 (50m 49s):
There

3 (50m 49s):
Aren't any family pictures on the wall. Not many mementos. Kimber's growing plants, though. Nature's always been her thing as a kid. She was the one who was always bringing creatures home. Do you

22 (51m 1s):
Remember Elmira from Looney Tunes? Yeah. So my family called me Elmira because I would, her thing on the show was like you'd, she would kiss and hug and squeeze animals till they died. And so that's what they called me because I always had some kind of critter or like stuff like that

3 (51m 19s):
In her new apartment. There's a little sunroom off the kitchen. Kimber wanted to make it into a greenhouse, but the radiator started leaking there and the floor got

22 (51m 28s):
Soft. So I spent like still

3 (51m 30s):
This is a fresh start. Do you, do you keep Narcan around still?

22 (51m 33s):
I do. I do. I carry it with me. You just never know when you're gonna need Narcan.

3 (51m 41s):
Yeah,

22 (51m 42s):
I just had to revive somebody the other day here at an AA meeting.

3 (51m 47s):
It was different being on that side of things.

22 (51m 49s):
Like you don't even think about the fact that you almost died. That's the crazy part. Like I forgot about a couple of my overdoses because like, 'cause you kind of just fall asleep and don't even know that you fall asleep. Like I'd always get mad. You get mad at the person, you're like, what are you stressing out about? Like I'm here, I'm fine. Like what is the problem? And then I watch people overdose and it is, it happened. It's like three minutes between when you or can them and they'll come back. It feels like an eternity and all those things run through your head. This person's dead. I don't know if I'm, this person's coming back. And then you realize, oh, you're like, oh okay. This was pretty scary.

3 (52m 31s):
On that first day, she called the line the day Jessie answered and Steven revived her. Kimber remembers waking up to a cold shiver rolling down her spine. She was looking down the hallway to the bathroom where she last remembered being a bathroom now filled with cops. There was the suitcase. She'd just lugged home from rehab and then she got really, really sick. After Steven forced her to go to the hospital, she checked herself out within an hour and walked home, puking along the side of the road. She picked up more drugs pretty much right away. The whole idea of never use alone's approach is that, as Jesse puts it, you give The Call time one more day to fight their demons.

3 (53m 14s):
And Kimber had a lot of demons. She says her parents both used drugs when she was 17, her brother was killed by a drug dealer. The whole family kind of crumbled after that. Kimber included. Kimber went to rehab on and off for years. She'd use a ton of drugs, realized things were getting a little outta control and check in for a couple of weeks to spin dry. As she put it, she'd get clean enough to go back to work and pay her rent and then the cycle would start back up again. So The Call with Jessie was not the moment things changed. That moment came over a year later, things had gotten bad. She says the sheriff had kicked her out of her apartment. The one where Steven had revived her.

3 (53m 56s):
Her car had been stolen and totaled. She was carrying around a backpack with her passport and birth certificate in it. But then it disappeared. Her cell phone was gone too. She had a friend who had let her crash, but the friend had a condition. Kimber had to call detox every day and try to get a bed, which eventually she did. The hotline is called never use alone, but walking into rehab. Kimber was utterly and completely alone. Maybe for this part you have to be. When she arrived, the nurse asked if she wanted medication Methadone to make getting straight a little easier.

22 (54m 35s):
Turkey

3 (54m 35s):
For the first time. She said no.

22 (54m 38s):
So I went out to detox and detoxed with no medication. What did that feel like? It was awful. Like I couldn't, I just remember going in and I didn't, I couldn't lay in the bed. It was so cold. They had the AC blasting. It was summertime, of course the ACS on, but you, you're going through withdrawal so you're so cold. And I couldn't lay in the bed 'cause they give you like these thin blankets. So I like went in the bathroom where there's like a heater thing in there and laid on the floor and they like dragged me out. They wouldn't let me stay in the bathroom. They're like, you can't lay in here. And so then I waited for them to leave and I went into the bathroom. The only thing that felt good was I stripped down naked. It was a really small bathroom with like tile floors.

22 (55m 19s):
So I had to throw my clothes out of the door back into my room and just lay on the tile. And I had the blanket over the heating vent and I just like had the heat on there. But like the coolness on my back and then the heat on my God. It was the only thing that like kept me being able to like sit through it. And I mean, I was throwing up the whole time and I don't know how long I was there, like it was a while. It just felt like days and days went on and I didn't think it was ever gonna stop. And I just kept telling myself that I could do it. That I really had the strength to do

3 (55m 54s):
It. Kimber remembers all the details because she's really proud of what she did. Four days after she checked in, she sent Jessie that text from a new phone. I feel like I'm in a stable enough place right now to reach out and let you know I'm back. Kimber wrote tentatively. Jessie said everything that you've been through has prepared you for today. You haven't been wasting time, you've been getting ready. I'll support you however you need me to. Every step of the way for Kimber, it's been a year of big changes. She's in a new town, but she still doesn't really trust herself around her old crowd.

3 (56m 40s):
It's interesting how this one call brought these three people together. Steven told me when he first met Jesse, they didn't really like each other. Too similar maybe, but The Call bonded them somehow. And Kimber right after that call, she avoided Steven even though he kept reaching out. She was embarrassed. He lived in her town, knew all the police. She said she got to this point where she knew other people were sick of her bullshit because she was sick of her bullshit. That passed. Eventually Kimber took a trip with Steven's family to the beach this summer there are these photos of them hanging out in the sand.

3 (57m 20s):
Jessie to this day hasn't met Kimber in person, but they text all the time on Mother's Day. Kimber sent Jessie a card. There was a picture inside of it, an ultrasound. Kimber's pregnant.

22 (57m 33s):
I always said like my body was too poisonous for anything to live inside. Like I, you know, I had done so much to myself and just like berated my body and you know, there was no way anything was gonna be able to live in this toxic environment.

3 (57m 48s):
Kimber's got a partner, Mikey, she met him in aa. They moved in together. This pregnancy was a surprise, but a happy one.

22 (57m 57s):
And I think there was definitely a part of me that didn't thought I didn't know how to be a mother. So when I found out I was pregnant, like even if I had to do it by myself, like I was gonna do it. Like I'm 31 years old, I was sober. I moved to a brand new place, started with nothing. And like I knew I could do this. If I could do everything I was doing, I could do this too. So I never for a second thought that I was gonna not keep the baby.

3 (58m 29s):
Kimber still dreams about using drugs. These are absurd dreams. Vivid dreams. Dreams about smoking dope that turns into vanilla frosting. And most of the people she went to rehab with, they've gone back to using these days. Jesse's still taking calls, sometimes 10 calls a day. She doesn't hear from her daughter Kalin very much. But I did reach Kalin. She told me she's trying to use less. Mostly she said she's sticking with weed. As for Steven, he says Reviving Kimber changed his life. He'd been having nightmares about all the people he failed to save.

3 (59m 10s):
After Kimber survived, he realized he didn't have to be the one pumping oxygen into someone's lungs to keep them alive. He could work more on the hotline instead. So he's doing that. He's even started taking calls. Steven and Jessie wanted Kimber to come work on the hotline too. So she went through the training and just took her very first call. Now she's one of the voices on the other side of the phone saying, put me on Speaker phone. Lay out your Narcan, unlock your door.

2 (59m 51s):
Mary Harris, she's the host and managing editor of Slate's Daily News podcast. What next? They were our collaborators making the story. If. you liked what you just heard. Mary is such an amazing interviewer and her daily show gets into the news in ways other people don't. You might check it out

23 (1h 0m 9s):
Don Hero doesn't make you narcissist to love your soul. It feels like nothing. It'll never be. That's alright. Let it out to me.

2 (1h 0m 38s):
Mary Harris's story was produced and edited by David Kestenbaum. Our show is produced today by Elise Spiegel. The people who put together today's program include Bi Mame, James Bend of ii, Zoe Chase, Michael Comase, Sean Cole of Veda Kornfeld, Cassie Howie, Valerie Kipnis, Seth Lynn, Catherine Ray Mano, stone, Nelson Nadie, Raymond Alyssa Ship, Christopher Sotal, Matt Tierney, and Diane Wu, our managing editor, Sarah Abdurahman. Our executive editor is Emmanuel Berry. Special thanks today, Alicia Montgomery, Paige Osborn, Susan Matthews, Elena Schwartz, Amon Ismail, Jeffrey B Bloomer, Dan Coy, and the entire Slate and WA Next team who's worked. You can find@slate.com, our website, This American Life dot org, where you can stream our archive.

2 (1h 1m 19s):
Over 800 episodes for absolutely free. Also, you'll find merch. We have the incredible Tori Mallet t-shirt. Check it out again, This American Life dot org. This American Life is delivered to public radio stations by P R X, the public radio exchange, as is always to our program's co-founder, Mr. To Malatia. You know he got fired from his job as an ambulance dispatcher 'cause he was just way too chatty for the gig. If

10 (1h 1m 44s):
It wasn't for people like you, calling people like me wouldn't have nothing to do. I'd be bored as hell. I am so glad you called me

2 (1h 1m 51s):
I Mary Glass back next week with more stories of This American Life

15 (1h 2m 0s):
Inside

2 (1h 2m 11s):
Next week on the podcast of This American. Life gave it a close friend and things kind of blew up with him, not friends anymore, which is a weird situation, right? When a romantic relationship ends. Most of us know how to act, but how to act when a friendship breaks up. In Gabe's case, rather than talk things out with the guy, hash out what went wrong, he went a different route. Very different route. That's next week on the podcast on a local public radio station.

24 (1h 2m 51s):
You might be right, it's simple, but something you almost never hear. In politics today, with each side more concerned about scoring political points than solving problems, I'm Bill Haslam, a Republican.

25 (1h 3m 1s):
And I'm Phil Bressen, a democrat. We are former Tennessee governors and we invite you to listen to our podcast. You might be right. Join us and guests like Al Gore, Paul Ryan, Judy Woodruff, as we take on important issues facing our country.

24 (1h 3m 14s):
Listen and subscribe to you. Might Be Right, a new podcast from the Baker School at the University of Tennessee.