0 (0s):
There are two sides to every story, but

Indeed (2s):
If, you wanna hire great talent for your business faster. There's just one way to do it. You need Indeed. They streamline hiring with powerful tools that find you matched candidates. Start hiring now with a $75 sponsored job credit to upgrade your job. Post at Indeed dot com slash ny offer good for a limited time. Just go to Indeed dot com slash nyt and support the show by saying you heard about it on this podcast. Indeed dot com slash nyt. Terms and conditions apply. Need to hire you need Indeed.

1 (30s):
A few months ago, somebody said something to me that I found so humiliating that I have never talked about it. Not to anybody, not even with the people I love the most. This is way too embarrassing. It makes me wince even to think of it. But you know, telling my loved ones and my friends, that's real life. Those are people I have to live with. You and me here right now on the radio, we have a different kind of relationship, right? I can tell you. So this thing happened. Well, it's still riding around the city on this Ponzi little folding bike, which looks ridiculous and there's no Dignity to it, but it is handy to have a bike that folds up If.

1 (1m 18s):
you live in the city and it was maybe 9:00 PM and I was riding home from work and I was wearing a suit 'cause I'd been to work and that morning it had been cold, so I wore a coat. Even though now at night it was warm enough. So the coat was unnecessary, but it was just easier to wear the coat than to be carrying it. I was also wearing one of those, you know, there's reflective like orange and yellow vests I was wearing 'cause I'd had three bike accidents, thanks to the fact that the folding bike loses its grip on the street in the rain. Extra precaution. Seemed worth it. don don't know. I have gray hair at that point. A neatly trimmed beard. I was wearing a helmet. All in all, I was a picture of fastidious care.

1 (2m 2s):
I was going south on Avenue B, I was between third and second street. A young woman was traipsing across the street, not wearing a coat full of cheerful, loose energy, bright eyes. She sees me on the bike. I am this locked down, buttoned down, helmeted, overdressed, gray-haired man in a reflective vest and as a road pastor, the thing she says to me is, do you fart out the front? That's all she said. Do you fart out the front? It was really kind of stunning as an insult. It's both incredibly efficient and deeply mysterious.

1 (2m 43s):
Like I don't even get what image she's trying to convey in a literal sense, but I do think I get the feeling she's going for and it's not respectful. You know, it's kind of like you fussy foppish over, careful old man and can I say that thought she had, she could have kept that to herself. I think all kinds of things about people in the street all the time. I keep those thoughts to myself. I do not say those things to people, to their faces because they are strangers. They're complete strangers. They don't need to know But. of course, it is so much easier to say what you really think with a complete stranger, with our friends, with our loved ones.

1 (3m 31s):
It can be so much more difficult to be honest sometimes, right? When somebody you really know and you have some tough truth that you need to talk through with them, the math of figuring out when to tell them and what to say and should you actually get into it and say anything at all. It can be so complicated. Like sometimes you tell them and the two of you talk it through and work it out. And it is relationship changing. It's vital. It is so important. And sometimes annoyingly, it fucking blows up in your face. Today on our program, we have stories of two friendships, and in each of these friendships, one of the friend says something to say to the other, something big, and they have to decide, do I say it to their face?

1 (4m 20s):
And each of these stories, they make a decision. And then that is actually when it gets interesting. From WB, e z, Chicago, it's This, American, Life America Glass. Stay with us. What are friends for? No, seriously, what are they for? So we start today with somebody who had something that he needed to talk through with his friend, and rather than have the tough conversation and get things off his chest and come to some new understanding, he did not do that. No, no, no. Instead, he stewed about it for years and then he talked about it to everyone.

1 (5m 3s):
Everyone but the one person that he really needed to talk to. If, you able to Kornfield explains how that worked out for him.

3 (5m 11s):
The thing Gabe Malika accidentally got stuck thinking about was a friendship breakup. And he got stuck there for a long time, eight years. And then he took all those thoughts and did the thing that only a former theater kid would do. He compiled them into a one man show. That's how he first heard about the story. I went to see Gabe's show one night because friendship is something I'm stuck thinking about too. I recently went through a friend breakup myself. Gabe's a small time comedian, lives in Queens, has a day job teaching kids how to write essays. And he starts this show by saying he doesn't have any real friends. What he has is a group of bros, his word from high school and his relationship with them is very stereotypically bro.

3 (5m 56s):
Like they do lots of of activities together, watch sports, play video games, but never get into the nitty gritty of what's going on in one another's emotional lives. Like for example, in the show, Gabe describes spending the whole day with his closest friend of the Bross Nick, and then afterwards going over to his parents house in Long Island.

4 (6m 17s):
And I walked through the front door and as soon as I do, my mom spots me and she goes, oh my God, Gabe, you were just with Nick. I just saw on Facebook that Nick's sister just had a baby. How does Nick feel about being an uncle? And I was like, what? How does Nick feel about being like, I've known Nick my entire life, but I don't know how Nick feels about anything, but I've seen the way my mother and my sister hang out with their friends in the afternoon. They get a cup of coffee at night, they have a glass of wine. This is key.

4 (6m 57s):
They look at each other for them. The activity is each other. And for us, the activity is literally anything else. And for a long time, truly hand of God, this did not bother me at all.

3 (7m 12s):
But then something hard happened, and for the first time in his adult life, Gabe needed more from his friends than just a good hang. What happened is his mom got sick, she checked into the hospital and for weeks, doctors can't figure out what's wrong with her. One afternoon Gabe leaves the hospital to go walk the family dog, and it's his first real moment of quiet since everything happened. He talks about this in his show and I asked him about it. He said he texted Nick to update him on his mom's status

6 (7m 43s):
And he responds by telling me she might be eligible for workers' comp. You might be able to get some money for this. And I'm reading that text and realizing that that is not what I'm interested in hearing about. I just, I wasn't asking for legal advice, I was asking, I was in my own way trying to get somebody to be like, Hey man, what? Like that's scary. Are you all right?

3 (8m 9s):
Like I'm here for you.

6 (8m 10s):
Yeah, yeah, I'm here for you. How are you feeling? How's, how's

3 (8m 13s):
Mel? You may be entitled to compensation.

6 (8m 15s):
Yeah, yeah. I was very Selena and Bards, and I think I was upset that he was just kind of missing the mark on what I needed. And so when he, when he sent me that, it really made me feel alone. It made me feel like, what if I don't have anybody to to be that in my life? Somebody who just like gets it without having to be explained.

3 (8m 40s):
Have you ever had that?

6 (8m 43s):
I had a best friend named Tim, and we were very, very close and he was kind of like my guy for a couple years and it was really special.

3 (8m 53s):
When Gabe talks about this in a show, this is where he pivots from here, it turns into this long ode to the only friend Gabe had ever had, who would've known what to say when his mom got sick. This guy named Tim, who he'd broken up with years ago, but still hasn't gotten over because of the abrupt way it ended. It's haunted him for years. This is the thing I'm gonna tell you about. Gabe's one emotionally intimate friendship with another guy and the conversation they should have had that could have changed everything.

3 (9m 35s):
Gabe met Tim his sophomore year of college at Hamilton in poetry class. Gabe noticed him right away because he managed to analyze poetry in a way that somehow didn't feel pretentious. He seemed sort of casually brilliant. So one day after class, Gabe strikes up a conversation with Tim. They walk across campus talking. Tim tells him that he played varsity baseball in high school, which is very impressive to Gabe because while he'd happily accepted his fate as a musical theater nerd, he still hadn't quite kicked that straight guy urge to be good at sports. Tim then asked Gabe what he did in high school,

6 (10m 12s):
And I'm like, yeah, man. Like I was, I was in musicals. I was a little sheepish telling him I remember, and he kind of like lights up when he hears musicals and he's like, dude, I love musicals. He's like, what have you been in? And I start telling him, you know, little Shop of Horrors and Oklahoma and all this stuff. And I'm like, have you ever been in a musical? Like you know, you do all this stuff. And he's like, well, like I was in one show junior year of high school, I was in Guys and Dolls and I'm like, oh, that's crazy. Like I was in Guys and Dolls, who did you play? And he says, I played Sky Masterson. And I'm like, oh, like I also played Sky Masterson. And so we have this moment where we're kind of like just like looking at each other like, oh, that's weird. Like junior of high school, play this, the same character

3 (10m 56s):
From there, Gabe and Tim fell into that kind of all consuming friendship you fall into when you're young, when you have time for that kind of thing. This newfound relationship felt different from Gabe's high school friendships. He and Tim could talk about real stuff,

6 (11m 11s):
Like we would talk about family stuff, we'd talk about money stuff, we'd talk about the sacrifice our parents were making

3 (11m 16s):
For you guys to go to college.

6 (11m 17s):
Yeah, both of us were on financial aid. Both of us kind of had this chip on our shoulder, like we didn't necessarily belong there, and so we kind of had this understanding, we just like got each other.

3 (11m 29s):
Tim and Gabe would regularly stay up till 4:00 AM smoking clove cigarettes and debating the kind of stuff you debate about in college. A year passed like this. Then Tim invited Gabe to come work with him at the summer camp for kids with chronic illnesses. Gabe joined him and found he loved it in part because one night at camp Tim introduced Gabe to another counselor. Kate Gabe remembers Tim telling him, you're gonna love Kate. She's our kind of person. Tim was right, Gabe and Kate talked for hours and at the end of the night they walk back to their bunks together.

6 (12m 6s):
And so we're doing this walk and it's very romantic and she kind of just like leans in and we kiss and something kind of goes off, at least in my brain where I was like, whatever I need to do to hold onto this. Like this is like a real one.

3 (12m 20s):
The rest of the summer is dreamy, but Gabe has to leave camp a couple weeks early to start a teaching job in Scotland. He and Kate stay in touch. They're actually in contact all the time, texting, emailing, sending poems back and forth. But the more time passes, the less into it. Kate seems to be eventually she calls Gabe and breaks things off. Gabe was upset and wrote to Tim to tell him the news. Tim responded saying he was sorry to hear about Kate and that he loved him. Tim and Gabe and some of their camp friends had planned a new year's trip to reunite in Edinburgh, but when they arrive it's not fun at all. At least not for Gabe.

3 (13m 1s):
All he wants to do is hang out with Tim one-on-one and talk about Kate. But

6 (13m 6s):
Tim and I are not really talking that much.

3 (13m 9s):
Why not?

6 (13m 10s):
Don don't know. Yeah, it felt like he wasn't really interested in spending like alone time with me.

3 (13m 16s):
Finally days into the trip, Tim asked Gabe to hang out. Just them Gabe is thrilled. It feels like the trip he actually wanted to have is finally starting. They go to a casino, then walk back to Gabe's apartment where Gabe starts making them a late night snack.

6 (13m 33s):
I think I had frozen like pizza bagel something and I preheat the oven and Tim is sitting on my kitchen counter and he says, Gabe, life sucks. And then you die

3 (13m 49s):
Just out of the

6 (13m 49s):
Blue, just outta the blue, he's wearing a hat and he's sitting on my counter and he's kinda just like staring off. He's like, life sucks, and then you die. And I'm like, what's up? I,

3 (14m 0s):
What do you think is going on?

6 (14m 4s):
I think at certain point there's a part of you that kind of knows things that are gonna happen before they happen and you're like, please, anything else? You know?

3 (14m 12s):
You're like, no, no, no, no, no. Preparing for impact.

6 (14m 15s):
Yeah. He's basically like, Kate and I got together and we're not sorry. Like we're not gonna apologize for it. This is kind of like what happened? We're together and you know you're gonna have to deal with that. That's what's going on.

3 (14m 34s):
What do you say?

6 (14m 36s):
I was mad. I think I yelled. I was like, what do you mean? Like I want an explanation. You're not thinking about how you're coming across kind of, you're just like, what are you talking about?

3 (14m 46s):
Are there specific moments that you look back at differently? Yeah. After Tim revealed to you the truth?

6 (14m 52s):
Yeah. It makes you revisit, makes you revisit. The summer. There's staff party pictures of them like hanging out. And the night of the staff party, I was in Burgh and I couldn't sleep. And you know, there's pictures of them together and I remember kind of like zooming in, like where are their hands? Like are they, is this intimate? Where

3 (15m 10s):
Were their hands?

6 (15m 11s):
Her hand was like kind of like by his waist and I was like, too low, too low, too low.

3 (15m 17s):
I did talk to Kate about all this. She said she had like Gabe, but when she fell for Tim, it felt like they were beginning the big relationship of their lives. And that's what Tim tried to emphasize to Gabe. But even with that being the case, it's pretty intense to say I'm not sorry.

6 (15m 36s):
Yeah,

3 (15m 37s):
He really said that

6 (15m 39s):
In my recollection. Yeah, he was just like, or he was like, I'm not gonna like apologize, I'm not gonna Right. Like

3 (15m 45s):
I like I admit guilt.

6 (15m 47s):
Yeah, yeah. It was like dealing with a corporation like here's your settlement, but like we're not gonna admit any guilt. And I kind of kept like waiting for him to be like, dude, I feel awful.

3 (15m 57s):
Would that have helped?

6 (15m 59s):
I think so. Yeah. I like to think there's a way he could've done that, that didn't end the friendship.

3 (16m 8s):
This is what Gabe can't wrap his head around, why Tim did it in this way. He could deal with the breakup with Kate. There's a script for that kind of heartache. It was Gabe's breakup with Tim that really hurt because it wasn't supposed to happen. It's not part of the friendship contract. It felt impossible to square the coldness of what Tim had done with the guy Gabe believed his friend to be. Eight years have passed since then. Gabe keeps expecting Tim to reach out because in Gabe's mind, Tim's the one who broke the relationship, so it was on him to fix it, but they still haven't talked about what happened.

3 (16m 51s):
Even though Tim and Kate broke up years ago, they'd been engaged before that. In Gabe's show, he tells the whole story how he and Tim met Camp Scotland, why they stopped talking and what he wishes he could say to Tim. Now watching Gabe on stage, I was struck but not surprised by how much brain space this all still takes up for him. I know from my experience when an important relationship implodes, detonated by one spectacularly out of character decision. Of course you try to make it make sense, but it's exhausting to try and put a puzzle together when you only have half the pieces.

3 (17m 31s):
So eventually you have to stop looking for those other pieces and make a new picture with the ones you do have. That's what Gabe's doing with his show and he's hoping for something more. He wants Tim to see the show so Tim can understand what all this was like for Gabe and apologized for the way he handled Gabe's feelings and then maybe he could imagine having him back as a friend. The only problem with Gabe's plan, he'd never actually invited Tim to the show. How long have you been doing the show?

6 (18m 7s):
The first time I did the show was in the spring of 2019.

3 (18m 12s):
So you've been doing the show for four years? Yeah. And you've never invited him through that whole time?

6 (18m 18s):
No.

3 (18m 19s):
Even though you made the show for him. Yeah,

6 (18m 22s):
I know that sounds,

3 (18m 25s):
Did you think that he knew about the show?

6 (18m 27s):
Yeah, I was pretty sure that he knows about it.

3 (18m 30s):
Why?

6 (18m 30s):
His mom's on Facebook.

3 (18m 32s):
Gabe's friends with Tim's mom on Facebook. So Tim must know about the show because you know, moms Gabe assumed Tim would show up at some point and a handful of times he actually thought he heard Tim's laugh in the audience. It seemed crazy to me to put so much time and energy and money he didn't have into making something for essentially one person and then stopping short of actually inviting that person to see it. I'll be honest, if the thing Gabe complains about most is how men don't talk to each other about their feelings. I just wanna say, dude, look in the mirror. Since he was never gonna take the final step, just invite Tim himself.

3 (19m 16s):
I asked if I could do it for him. After briefly panicking, he told me to make the call. To my surprise, in Gabe's anxious delight, Tim agreed to come. We were all set. Tim had his plane ticket to New York. Gabe had grabbed a slot at a local theater and started selling tickets for the show. And then four days before the performance, Tim emails me at midnight and says he is changed his mind. It's not gonna come. He'd realize what he signed up for, flying halfway across the country to watch himself portrayed as a villain in front of a live audience and thought why subject myself to that?

3 (19m 59s):
I call and text Tim but get no response. And then Tim finally calls me back the night before he's supposed to get on the plane to tell me his mind was made up. As it happens, Tim calls me as I'm on my way out, I'm going to a birthday dinner where I'll see my ex-friend for the first time since she friended up me via text a year ago and then refused to discuss what happened. I was nauseated at the thought of seeing her, and yet I spend the better part of an hour pacing outside the restaurant trying to convince him to see his ex-friend, knowing mine was just on the other side of the restaurant door, like I get why he's saying no. But I tell him, most of us in this situation, we just try to avoid our ex-friend the best we can and occasionally suffer through awkward run-ins until one of us moves away or dies.

3 (20m 51s):
But he and Gabe have this rare and kind of special chance to actually get some understanding and I tell Tim I hope he takes the opportunity. Tim's skeptical, but the next day he texts me a picture from the plane, Gabe heads to the theater early to get ready while I go collect Tim. Immediately I see why Gabe liked him so much. He's warm and chatty despite being visibly on edge. Tim and I walked at the show talking about nothing, trying to pretend we're not strolling into a very strange situation when we find our seats.

3 (21m 32s):
I tried to talk to Tim about how he's feeling, but he's distracted looking around trying to see if he recognizes anyone. Are you feeling happy to be here at all or no?

7 (21m 41s):
I happy is not. I wouldn't use the word happy. I would say like, this is, it's weird to be here for sure. You know

3 (21m 53s):
Tim Spots Gabe's mom, and then the show starts Gabe

4 (21m 56s):
Mollica,

3 (21m 60s):
Gabe begins the show Breely, and right away there's some jokes that really hit for Tim. I wonder if Gabe can hear Tim's laugh from the stage. Gabe tells lots of stories from their friendship. Painting them is this kind of buddy comedy duo. If Dead Poet Society were a buddy comedy the

4 (22m 21s):
Way I would take an English class, so I would just always praise whatever we were reading, you know, it put me in the very unfortunate position of going to class and be like, oh professor, another banger from Milton, you know, but Tim would walk into poetry class with like opinions and shit. Do you know what I mean? He'd be like, this poem's good. This one's bad. This is the best thing I've ever read.

3 (22m 43s):
The show is not an 80 minute takedown, it's mostly about how much Gabe admires Tim. And yet there are moments that are hard to watch while sitting next to Tim, like when Gabe counts. The night in Edinburgh, when Tim came clean

4 (22m 56s):
And he says, well, Kate and I are together and we're not sorry.

3 (23m 7s):
I'd pinned a mic on Tim and the absence of sound coming from him during this part of the show as conspicuous, I'd spend hours talking to Gabe for this story, but sitting there in the dark of the theater with Tim, no matter what had happened in the past, it seemed genuinely hard to be him in this moment. I don't think I'd appreciated the bravery. All this required on Tim's part, Gabe finishes the show triumphant. He later told me it was the best he'd ever performed.

4 (23m 42s):
That's fine.

3 (23m 43s):
Afterwards. Tim needs a minute to clear his head needs a move. He slips out for a walk while I stand with Gabe in front of the theater. I'll leave this Gabe's in the middle of showing me the clove cigarettes. He doesn't smoke anymore, but bought for nostalgia's sake to smoke with Tim when Tim appears arms open and pulls Gabe into a hug.

6 (23m 60s):
Timmy, thanks for coming back. Hey,

3 (24m 4s):
We drive to the studio and get right into it. Interviewee, Tim said it was strange to sit in the audience, hearing someone talk about him, knowing he couldn't respond. Of course, it didn't stop him from wanting to respond. Like in the moment when it's revealed that he and Kate got together,

7 (24m 19s):
The crowd goes, oh, like, fuck

6 (24m 22s):
You guys. That's my life. You're

7 (24m 25s):
Booing. You know,

6 (24m 27s):
No one booed tonight say, Ooh, okay, okay. No, no. But Boo is different than anyone. This is,

7 (24m 33s):
This is a, I agree, there's a difference.

3 (24m 36s):
The two reminisce for a bit. So our senior, and pretty quickly it's apparent that Tim does not remember the rise or fall of their friendship in nearly as much detail as Gabe does. There was one part though that Tim remembered, clearly Tim had tried at one point in his own way to make amends. A year after their breakup, he'd invited Gabe to a concert with music by the composer, Edvard Grieg, which he chose specifically because there's this one song in that concert that meant a lot to both of them when they were friends. It's called The Last Spring. Gabe first introduced the song to him in college when he took Tim to a Greek concert, and then a few weeks later

7 (25m 16s):
We're like up at 3:00 AM like playing video games, listening to classical music on the radio. And the song the last spring came on on the radio and I think, you know, we just kind of like stopped talking and turned up the music and sat there and listened to it. But it was this just like very special moment as I remember it.

3 (25m 41s):
This was a context Tim had in his head when he reached out to Gabe thinking that maybe they could be friends again.

7 (25m 48s):
I was like, let's go to this concert together. It's this piece of music that like has this deep resonance for both of us. And you know, my feeling was this is a gesture of good will of extending an olive branch and Gabe said no. And so at that point I was like, okay, Paul is in his court

3 (26m 12s):
Gabe. When you got that message from Tim, did you see it as the olive branch that Tim meant it to be?

6 (26m 19s):
I don't think I saw it as like, this is Tim putting hi everything on the table. My perspective was like, oh, Tim doesn't want to acknowledge the hurt he's caused, he just wants to be friends again without having to do anything is how I felt. Hmm.

7 (26m 33s):
I think that perhaps like my invitation to you to go to that concert, I think I was maybe overly relying on like, you should feel as sentimental about this piece of music as I do. Yeah. And connect it to our friendship as much as I do. Yeah. And so without me explaining it, I remember feeling like the meeting behind this should be like self-evident.

3 (26m 55s):
Something Tim and Gabe seemed to have in common is a kind of magical thinking. Tim had hoped that Gabe would understand everything. He was trying to express complicated feelings like love and remorse and nostalgia with what was essentially a link to Ticketmaster. Gabe had expected Tim to Romcom style appear unannounced one night at his performance without ever actually inviting Tim to a show or even telling them it existed. It's like each wanted all the benefit of being heard without the burden of having to say anything at all.

3 (27m 37s):
The main thing Gabe wanted out of all of this was an apology for how Tim broke the news to him about Kate all those years ago. He thinks if Tim had handled it differently, they could have stayed friends. I know this is what he's waiting for. He's told me that, but an hour of circling around the topic goes by before finally Gabe brings it up in a sideways sort of way.

6 (28m 0s):
I guess the question for you is like, do you wish that it had happened differently? Of

7 (28m 4s):
Course, of course. I wish it had happened differently. You know, I I would tell you a thousand percent I felt bad about it. I I totally felt bad about it, but if, if I'm being totally honest, I remember that conversation differently. What I remember saying is like less like I'm not sorry and more, I'm not asking your permission, but I, what I didn't want was for you to be like, yeah, Timmy, please don't do this.

6 (28m 32s):
Yeah. I mean that, that's, it's illuminating. There was always a part of me that wanted, you'd be like, tell me like, I think I'm in love with her. Like, I don't know what to do and I at least maybe would've given me the opportunity to be like, Timmy, I don't wanna lose you as a friend. You're coming to me and I want you to be happy. And it just, what always was frustrating was like, it just, you never, it never felt like I had the chance to be the bigger man.

7 (28m 60s):
That's fair, man. That's fair. Wow. No, that's fair. Oh man. No, no, that's fair. Because you're right, because because what I said and even what I remember saying like, you're right, is like, I was like, I am not gonna give you the chance Yeah. To tell me no. Yeah. Or, or to tell me, you know, you really don't want me to do this.

3 (29m 20s):
Do you feel sorry about that, Tim?

7 (29m 23s):
Yeah. So, so what I don't, what, you know, what I don't feel sorry for is, is like the facts, right? The underlying I and, and, and, and, but what I am learning for the first time today is that it's not, it wasn't the facts.

6 (29m 37s):
No, of course not,

7 (29m 38s):
Is that it wasn't the fact and well, and that's, you know,

3 (29m 41s):
Wait, so do you feel sorry about the way the facts came out? Well,

7 (29m 44s):
Yeah. Now knowing that that's the problem. Yeah.

3 (29m 47s):
Wait, you should tell Gabe that.

7 (29m 48s):
I just, I did, I think, didn't we?

3 (29m 50s):
Well you didn't, you didn't say the words. I'm sorry.

7 (29m 52s):
No, I think like, well I thought I said that earlier, earlier in the conversation, but I am sorry for the way that I broke that news to you. I really appreciate you saying that. Yeah, Tim, it's so, I've been waiting a long time to hear that.

3 (30m 17s):
I was surprised by how unemotional and anticlimactic the apology felt here. Tim was saying all the words that Gabe had wanted so badly to hear, and yet somehow it didn't feel like all that much. And I think that's because of this other thing that kept surfacing throughout their conversation. It's one of those awkward things. It seems borderline cruel to bring attention to, but I'd be remiss not to ask. So nervously I do. The thing that I can't tell is, was your friendship as important to you, Tim, as it was to Gabe?

7 (30m 53s):
It was very important to me. I, I don don't know how to answer that. I think it was incredibly important to me. don don't know that it was as important, but I don't like, he was a, a very, very, very important friend to me.

3 (31m 15s):
Do you have friends now that occupy the space that Gabe previously occupied?

7 (31m 20s):
I do. You do? I do. Yeah.

3 (31m 24s):
We wrap up our conversation shortly after this, but the question still nags at me, so I asked him about it again the next day when it was just the two of us talking.

7 (31m 34s):
It's a question I'm like very self-conscious about answering Why? Because I, I wouldn't say like he was a guy I knew. Like he was a, yeah, he was a very good friend of mine.

3 (31m 45s):
Was he your best friend at any point?

7 (31m 48s):
I'll say now we're getting into like things about like best friends. I think like

3 (31m 51s):
Best friends can be a tear, not a person, best

7 (31m 53s):
Friends, a tear, not a person, but

3 (31m 55s):
So was he on that tear?

7 (31m 57s):
So whether Gabe was on that tear, like he was certainly close to it. don don't know if I would throw him all the way up there.

3 (32m 20s):
It was startling to see the truth of the matter laid so bare. Tim just didn't love Gabe as much as Gabe loved Tim and really an imbalance in love. Isn't that ultimately the reason that all relationships end? I ran this by Gabe that maybe there was a mismatch in their feelings for one another or, and how they understood their relationship. He rejected that idea outright. He says he was there. He remembers what it felt like.

6 (32m 49s):
This idea that like we weren't best friends. I don wanna say it's a heresy, but it's just not true.

3 (32m 56s):
But it's not true in your story.

6 (32m 59s):
Yeah, and I think yes,

3 (33m 1s):
It could be true in Tim's.

6 (33m 7s):
Yeah, and I just don't buy it and I think that's self-preservation.

3 (33m 13s):
I think a part of me had been jealous that Tim and Gabe got the chance to come to some understanding a thing that my ex-friend made clear was not on the table for us, but it hadn't occurred to me that sitting down together and rehashing things might not lead to some sort of new common ground that Tim could just strike a match on Gabe's memories and say, Nope, you're wrong. It wasn't like that. I never felt that way about you. If that's what happens when you try to talk it out. Yeah, no thanks. I guess that's the problem when you write a one man show hoping it'll prompt someone to tell you the thing you've always wanted to hear.

3 (33m 53s):
There's no guarantee that they'll say the lines you've assigned to them.

1 (34m 7s):
If, you go to Kornfeld is a producer at our show. Gabe. Monica's show solo a show about friendship reopens in October and runs in New York, la, Boston, and Chicago Tickets. Alright, Gabe malika.com coming up. Come words succeed. Where sparkly platform shoes have failed. That's in a minute. Chicago Public Radio warn.

polestar (34m 31s):
Our program continues Support for This American. Life comes from Polestar, the era of automotive advances with the All Electric Polestar two. Now with faster charging improved e p a estimated range of up to 320 miles and advanced safety technology experience. Awe-inspiring performance combined with luxury design as standard. The time is now the All-Electric Polestar two. Book a test, drive and order today@polestar.com.

Virginia Department of Motor Vehicles (35m 1s):
Dinging, dinging, ding, dinging, dinging, dinging, dinging. Am I getting on your nerves yet? Well, that's the point behind the seatbelt alarm in your car and If, you know somebody who won't listen to it. Well, feel free to be annoying and remind them to buckle up. You could save their life. To find out more, go to DMV now.com. A message from the Virginia Department of Motor Vehicles. Dinging, dinging, dinging, dinging.

Modern Love (35m 26s):
I'm Anna Martin, the Host of the Modern Love podcast. In every episode we peek into an intimate corner of someone's life and learn about what love means To them. You know, I can tell you 35 years with another person, I've never spent that much time with anyone else either. So we both kind of said, I love you pretty fast. My advice is that it's okay if it's hard. You can listen to modern love wherever you get your podcasts.

1 (35m 57s):
This American Life Ira Glass. Today's program, Say It to My Face. We have two stories today. Each of them is about a friendship where there is something that the two friends do not see eye to eye on and that something is so fundamental that talking about it seems just explosive and the friends have to decide. Do we discuss this at all? We've arrived at Act Two of our program, Act Two, pinky Square. What's very interesting about the friends in this next story is that they talk every day. They're so close best of besties, and yet there is something that they have never talked about, that he's so big and so basic that one of them wonders. Are we really as close as I thought?

1 (36m 39s):
Jasmine Garst is one of the two friends. She's been on our show before Jasmine lives here in the United States and New York, but grew up in Buenos Aires.

12 (36m 47s):
On the day I left home, I sat in my kitchen with my best friend, Gabbie. A taxi was waiting outside. We were leaving Argentina. I was 18. Listen, I said barely able to make the words out without sobbing. There's something I want you to have. I gave you my sparkly platform shoes.

13 (37m 11s):
He was a shitty gift. Come on. Really? It only means something to you. Yeah, you were like, how about your comic collection?

12 (37m 28s):
What the hell am I supposed to do with ease? He says he thought to himself before he could say anything, mama stuffed some cash savings in a pouch under her shirt and yelled, let's go. My grandma, grandma Yaya held my face in her bony hand and whispered something in my ear. I turned to Gabbie and told him, I'm going to move back as soon as I can. I promise that was more than 20 years ago. Gabbie is still my best friend. We talk all the time about everything.

12 (38m 11s):
He knows when I'm going to go get my pap smear. I know when he is had a bad day just by the tone of his voice. By now, some of my facial expressions are actually his. They just stuck to me like the way I curl my lower lip when I find someone annoying. But as close as we are, we've never really talked about how I said I was going to move back and I haven't followed through. It became a sort of unspoken rule and we cannot talk about this one small, enormous thing. Until recently when all the words we'd kept in over the years came spilling out.

12 (38m 51s):
It happened by accident. Of course, nothing truly happens by accident. We reached this boiling point by our own doing, by assuming we knew one another so well, we could read each other's minds and to be fair, we often could. We've always understood one another instinctively. From the moment we met, we were 15 back then. I mostly spent my summer vacations at the neighborhood park. That's where I first saw him. He was lying out in the grass next to another friend of mine, a cigarette hung from his lip.

12 (39m 35s):
He held a Es beer in his hand and I took one look at him and thought, what a badass. He took one look at me, lanky, pale blocking his son and curled his lower lip. He was irritated.

15 (39m 59s):
Look

12 (39m 60s):
At this one. She looks too white. She must be in inside.

15 (40m 6s):
And

12 (40m 6s):
Just to prove I wrong, I took my first ever swig of beer. It was piss warm, but I chugged it down. This earned me some respect. We started joking. We were very different. I was a scared and secretly angry, nerdy Jewish girl. He was a brown kid who was scared of being outed as gay. But we quickly signaled to each other that we both came from homes where there was a lot of arguing that easily boiled over into physical fights. The adults in our lives, they often behaved like terrifying children. I want so badly to tell you that from that day on, we became troublemakers, but Gabbie was not the bad boy I thought he was.

12 (40m 52s):
When we met, we were not Rio rebellious teens.

15 (41m 1s):
We were,

12 (41m 2s):
As he puts it, n children who behaved like aunties. Our big act of rebellion was secretly drinking all of my mom's tea. We hung out in the park and just gossiped smoking cheap national tobacco, ripping the filter off to feel tougher. The park, it was our island, and on it we shared our fears, our obsessions, and our escape plans, which always involved moving far away. Things were not good at home.

12 (41m 42s):
My parents were professors, had been unemployed for a whole year. Gabby's, his dad was a cab driver. His mom was a secretary. They were barely making ends meet. Sometimes he'd come home from the park and find there was just tea and bread for dinner. At the end of each night, we'd say, goodbye. See you tomorrow. I'd go back home and sometimes slip into my grandma Yaya's bed next to her. She kept a tiny plastic radio under her pillow, which blasted the news all night, and over the years, the news got increasingly worse.

12 (42m 25s):
10% unemployment, 15% unemployment, 17% unemployment. People started just breaking into supermarkets. The police responded brutally. They killed protestors. Just a few minutes from my house, we had three replacement presidents in the span of one month. Lying next to Yaya's radio was like falling asleep to a muffled doomsday clock. By the end of the year, my family decided to go. It felt like now or never at the time.

12 (43m 7s):
There was an exodus out of Argentina. There was a saying I heard a few times back then. Last went out, get the lights in the days and weeks after my departure. Gabbie watched one friend after another pick up and leave, and he was still there. He says he felt anchored to a sinking ship. I was angry. He says. I was frustrated. I felt like I was stuck in place. Everyone else could choose to go wherever they wanted, but not me.

12 (43m 49s):
I have to stay here. He dreamt of studying fashion, becoming a designer, but his mother sat him down and told him University was not in the cards. They needed him to get a second job, so he started waiting tables. The tips were meager. No one was eating out. Meanwhile, for me, it felt like I'd gotten thrown into the deep end of America with no life jacket. We lived in a motel in Southern California. I worked a lot of jobs. Dawn at a bakery afternoons.

12 (44m 29s):
At the supermarket weekends, I sold cowboy boots at a store. Back then, mama was always yelling at me. There was no a for effort. There was just keep swimming or you'll drown. Wake up Jasmine. Enroll in community college. Jasmine, go to bed, Jasmine. But before bed, I always tried to call Gabbie on Skype or with these international calling cards they sold at liquor stores. I tell him about whoever I had a crush on. He'd tell me about the pants he'd designed and made for himself. In the background of these conversations, there was always my promise to return.

12 (45m 10s):
Whenever I'd have a bad day, whenever my creepy boss would give me another unsolicited massage, I'd call and tell him, fuck this place. I'm so glad I'm coming back Soon. Whenever Gabbie would have a bad day, when he'd get into an argument with his family or his boss would throw a tantrum, he'd sigh and say, can't wait for you to come back. But returning at this point was impossible. I couldn't afford to even visit, let alone move back. We just needed time. We figured I needed time.

12 (45m 52s):
Two more years, maybe three. Three at most. In the meantime, I started making money. Not a lot, but I felt I could help my family. For the first time, I started getting a taste of an independence I could never have imagined. Back home still. Argentina was always in my rear view mirror, beautiful and resilient. Alive, even in its wreckage, Gabbie would tell me about all these new things he was doing. Poetry readings, a protest, a road trip. Everyone was hurting back home, but they managed to hustle and enjoy life. Meanwhile, me, I was making money in the U S A, but the closest thing I had to a friend was the flatulent coworker.

12 (46m 37s):
I took my cigarette breaks with. It didn't matter though, because I knew someday soon I would make a U-turn. I'd move back, and when I did, I joined Gabbie and his new adventures. Everything would make sense again, and I knew that coming back home could be done because I'd seen my own family do it. Back in the seventies, during the dictatorship, my parents had left Argentina and they'd returned when it was over Gabbie and I would always sign off our phone calls the same way. I'd tell him, see you soon. And he'd say, My love, I love you to the sky and back.

12 (47m 21s):
See you soon. I went back to visit in 2011. I didn't tell anyone I was coming back, not even Gabbie. I thought it would be a wonderful surprise to just show up one day. Unannounced. That night I got into the city, went to my aunt's house, ate something and fell asleep. The telephone woke me up before sunrise. They told me that Grandma Yaya had been found at the foot of the stairway at her nursing home unconscious. Her skull was cracked.

12 (48m 2s):
She'd been rushed to the hospital. In my memory, it feels like I'm running under underwater too slow to make it in time. And by the time I got to the hospital, the police had arrived. She had died. The circumstances were murky and it could have involved violence. So this was now an official investigation. The cops wouldn't let me in dazed. I walked outside and looked for a public phone. There was only one person I knew to call Gabbie. He was asleep. It was early. I'm home. I told him, home,

16 (48m 42s):
Home,

12 (48m 44s):
Home, home. I need you to come to the hospital. When he arrived, I fell apart in his arms. In the next few days, I went to the police to badger them. Hey, when can I get her body back? The officer was too busy watching a soccer game to see me. I could hear them all yelling at the screen in the back office. I'd forgotten about this part of Argentina, how broken things could be. At night, Gabbie would crawl into bed with me. We'd spoon and I'd cry and he'd whisper, come on now, Mina. You know how things are here with the police.

12 (49m 24s):
But all of a sudden I had this deep, terrifying feeling of wanting to leave. I never felt that before, and I didn't know what to make of it, and I couldn't tell Gabbie. I worried it would be too hurtful. So I kept it from him. I think it was the first time in my life I kept anything from him. He drift off to sleep and I'd stay awake for hours. A few days later, the cops called I was to identify Yaya's body at the city. Morgue. Gabbie went with me. When they rolled out her body, Gabbie saw me drowning. He found my hand and whispered, jazz,

16 (50m 4s):
S

12 (50m 4s):
Close your eyes. When he identified her body, he gave me a gift to remember her as one of the last times I saw her, the day I left, she was holding my face whispering. Don't forget us. After Yaya died, I felt like I had failed at the most important things to hold on to the people I love tight enough to stay connected enough or to at the very least, go back home in time enough to say, how could I ever forget you?

12 (50m 49s):
Thank you. Goodbye. I felt guilty. Gabbie and me. We still talked every day, but whenever it came up, me visiting or moving back, I could hear myself making excuses even when they weren't exactly true. I can't afford a ticket. I don't have enough vacation days. Too much work. And then last summer, I ran out of excuses. My job sent me to Argentina to report on the FIFA World Cup in 2022. That's when it happened. Gabbie and I, we finally talked about it, about how 20 some years ago, we sat in my kitchen and I made a promise that I haven't kept.

12 (51m 36s):
When I hopped out of the cab and saw Gabbie walked towards me, he looked as handsome as ever.

17 (51m 43s):
Gabbie one.

12 (52m 8s):
We almost immediately snapped back into it, goofed off, pretended to be gymnasts on the jungle gym. He's doing great. He's a modeling agent, which he loves. He's dating a really nice guy who forces him to eat healthy. Somehow his childhood cat, Fiona, is still alive. It felt so good to just be together like in the old days, and so I got that nagging question. Is it time to come back home? I don. I blurted it out in the middle of our conversation. You know, my family's always like, oh, I can put you in touch with so and so who runs a radio station, but I, I don't have the contacts like I I made my what there.

12 (52m 52s):
It was like a nervous tick. I said it. The promise followed by the excuse, I'm gonna move back home. I just can't right now because of work, which is when Gabbie looked at me, his lower lip curled, and finally said what he really felt. He remembers the moment as well as I do. Come on, sis, stop bullshitting me enough. Let's jump out of this loop we've been stuck in for years where you say you're moving back or you want to move back and it's like, it's not gonna happen. Let's move on.

12 (53m 36s):
All of this, this was new information for me. Gabbie was doing this thing that in Spanish we call this, I suppose it translates into venting, but it literally means to undr oneself, to spit out everything you've been holding it. No matter what I asked him, were there moments where you felt irritated? Like, come on girl, you don't have to keep saying this. We're good.

15 (54m 18s):
Okay.

12 (54m 18s):
Gabbie says, of course, from the moment I understood it, like every time you've said it, I felt annoyed.

15 (54m 26s):
Like,

12 (54m 27s):
Stop. Just stop. It was like, what is the deal here? What are you telling me this for?

15 (54m 39s):
I

12 (54m 40s):
Felt like took him off. Felt like you were saying it to calm me down, and I was like, no. Looking back, he's kind of right. I did say these things out of guilt. I tried to soften things by talking about how challenging it was for me up north, which he says, actually didn't help

15 (54m 58s):
Iac iac.

12 (55m 8s):
It was hearing you complain about something I never had the chance to do.

15 (55m 13s):
He

12 (55m 13s):
Didn't want to hear that. Not when he was barely making ends meet. And he says, the moment he realized that I was never going to move back was years ago when my grandma Yaya died. The same moment I suppose. It became clear to me, it immediately hit me that you no longer had your grandparents here. So I was like, okay, nothing is anchoring her here,

15 (55m 53s):
But

12 (55m 53s):
You were here. I say,

15 (56m 19s):
Gabbie

12 (56m 19s):
Says,

15 (56m 20s):
Yeah,

12 (56m 21s):
But as your friend, I mean, I wouldn't have wanted you to come back for me, not now at some other time in my life. Like If. you had said this to me when we were 23. I would've loved for you to come back for me. You know, I do know, but I wasn't just saying it for him. I was also saying it because I was terrified. Terrified that I was drifting away and I needed to believe I still had a home, a place where I fit in perfectly. I still want to believe that my whole body turned up when I asked him this question, do you still think of me as Argentine?

15 (57m 14s):
No.

12 (57m 15s):
Wow. Gabbie said, don't take this the wrong way, but no,

15 (57m 29s):
He says,

12 (57m 30s):
You are very Latina,

15 (57m 32s):
But

12 (57m 32s):
Don don't know nowadays. I don't introduce you as my Argentine friend.

15 (57m 37s):
You're

12 (57m 37s):
My North American friend. I realized a long time ago that without meaning to, I started calling you Mya friend.

15 (57m 47s):
Wow.

12 (57m 54s):
Wow. That's son of a bitch. Being from Argentina is like my whole identity. It's like my theme song. That's how I think of myself as I move through my stupid everyday life. What the fuck? I've heard this kind of thing before my whole life, I'd heard Latin Americans talk about us Latinos. This way people's voice will go down half an octave when they say, oh, so and so is Colombian, but from the us like it's some kind of terminal illness. I guess I just didn't realize that. Now I live in the voice drop. Gabbie says He still loves me.

12 (58m 35s):
Even if there's parts of me that he now doesn't fully get, it's okay for you not to come back. For me. He says, it's healthy. I stopped waiting for you a long time ago, and so in one fell swoop, he releases me from my teenage promise, which you would think was a huge relief. But to be honest, it feels terrible. Even as I say this, I keep thinking, but wait, maybe. Maybe I'll move back in a few more years.

12 (59m 16s):
Maybe when I'm old. I don't want to be free from my oath, and I don't know where that leaves us. Every time I think about my friendship with Gabbie about what the glue is that keeps us together at a distance. I go back to this one memory. It happened back when we were kids on that first day, when we met in the park that evening, there was a summer storm. All our friends ran home. It was just me and him. Ellu. We yelled dramatically.

12 (59m 56s):
The great flood. We laughed as we stood under a ledge to avoid the downpour. I didn't want to go back home. I never did. Back then, I didn't have to explain it to him. We just knew each other profoundly from the start. He smiled at me, drenched his brown eyes, filled with mischief and said, wants to stay here a while longer. I felt the rush of excitement of someone who has just been spoken to for the first time. Yes, I answered. So we stood under the ledge together, watching the world around us come undone.

NPR and Futuro Studios (1h 0m 45s):
Jasmine Garst. She first interviewed Gabbie for her podcast, the last Cop La Kopa, which I guess officially is about soccer star Leo Messi and Argentina. But really If, you hear. It is about so much more about leaving home, about being an outsider in another country. It is available in English and in Spanish, wherever you get your podcasts produced by N P R and Futuro Studios.

1 (1h 1m 7s):
Jasmine's story for our show today was produced by Nadia Raymond

2 (1h 1m 12s):
I,

1 (1h 1m 52s):
Our program is produced today by Lily Sullivan and edited by Laura Starky bpi. Our show together today include Bi Wmi, James Ben at the second Gen, Bonzo Chase, Sean Cole, Michael Comte, Andrea Lopez Crudo, Valerie Kipnis, Toto Nelson, Catherine Raimondo, Ryan Ruy, Francis Swanson, Christopher Alma Tierney, Julie Whitaker, and Diane Wu. Our managing editor, Sarah Abdurahman, our senior editors, David Kestenbaum. Our executive editor is Emmanuel Barry. Special thanks David to Greg Wallach, Jonathan Goldstein, Lauren Gonzalez, and Katie Simon. Our website, This American Life dot org, where you can stream our archive of over 800 episodes for absolutely free. If, you are stuck for something to listen to. There are staff recommendations like at a classy neighborhood bookstore, This American Life dot org.

1 (1h 2m 35s):
This American Life is delivered to public radio stations by P R X, the public radio exchange. Thanks as always to our program's co-founder, Mr. Tory Malt. You know his cousin Milt in England is always mailing him sausages like individual sausages. I was walking by Tory's desk this morning and saw I'm opening this package. I was like, what is that, Tory? He told me. Another

4 (1h 2m 55s):
Banger from Milton.

1 (1h 2m 56s):
I'm RA Glass. Back next week with more stories of This American Life. Next week on the podcast of This American Life, the story of a couple where he gets diagnosed with Alzheimer's and decides he wants to end his life before the disease goes too far. She tries to help 'em figure out how to do that legally, which in the United States is nearly impossible.

1 (1h 3m 40s):
They finally find a place in Switzerland. We hear this unusually real, very three-dimensional account of the entire experience they go through. It's really something. Next week on the podcast, on your local public radio station,

Virginia DMV  (1h 4m 1s):
Do you know somebody that won't wear their seatbelt? That alarm starts dinging, but they just ignore it. Well, next time, add some of your own dinging. Start going, dinging, dinging, dinging, dinging, and don't stop. Dinging. Dinging, dinging, dinging. Yep. Keep going until they click that seatbelt, because if saving, their life will make them buckle up. Maybe that annoying dinging will learn more@dmvnow.com. A message from Virginia D M V.