0 (1s):
Hey there, podcast listeners. It's Tyra with a quick message before the episode. I've been using this space now and then to tell you about other podcasts you might like. And today I wanna talk about heavyweight Jonathan Goldstein's show. I just listened to the opening episode of their new season and it is one of the most beautifully made stories I've heard anybody make in a while. And it is, it was such perfect kind of masterful efficiency. It's about a childhood friend of his and about getting older and about the people we lose. And there are these old recordings of him and this friend when they were kids. And when Jonathan goes back to them today, they seem to contain so much more than they did at the time I cried, which I almost never do at a podcast.

0 (44s):
So that's my recommendation this week, heavyweight season three episode one. It's Ted Lenny If. you don't Know heavyweight. It's reliably one of the weirdest, funniest, most accomplished shows out there. Jonathan invented a way to host a podcast and a thing to do in a podcast that's different from anybody else. And you used to have to get the show on the Spotify app, but now it is available wherever you get your podcasts. So heavyweight, try a bunch of them. And now here's our show for the week.

1 (1m 18s):
A quick warning. There are curse words that are UN beeped in today's episode of the show. If, you prefer a beeped version. you can find that at our website, This American Life dot org.

0 (1m 29s):
It was just first time working for his big brother. His brother needed somebody last minute 'cause the guy bailed on him. Jeff also had somebody bail on him. He moved back home for the summer for this girl he liked

2 (1m 40s):
And it became like really apparent right away that like that wasn't gonna work out.

0 (1m 45s):
So he had some time on his hands. His brother was doing a research study on black bears, his brother's a wildlife biologist and offered him this job as a field tech

2 (1m 54s):
And his summer working with black bears was a dream. So

0 (1m 58s):
That wouldn't be a dream for everybody. Why was that a dream for you?

2 (2m 2s):
Oh, I just think bears are the coolest animals. They're so cool. Black bears are like so cool how fast they can like climb a tree like their ears. I love like their Bears ears. I just love everything about bears.

0 (2m 15s):
So Jeff loves bears. His brother Wes studies bears. Jeff is the younger brother. Wes is the older brother. Wes' research was to track where bears were in Bryce, Canyon, National Park in Utah. Here he is.

3 (2m 27s):
There was a bear that had broken into a tent swatted a woman while she was sleeping, really scared her. And so the idea was to call her some bears, track them, see where they're going, how they're spending their time.

0 (2m 41s):
If they could figure that out, the park could relocate campsites away from those areas and post signs. So as, and Jeff spent the summer putting collars with g p s devices onto a bunch of wild bears. And then in the winter they had to go back and check on the bears, do a quick exam, make sure their collars weren't too tight once the bears fattened up for winter, swap out any old collars that needed new batteries. And it turns out the easiest way to do that is to visit the bears when they're hibernating in their dens. And most bear dens, that job isn't actually too difficult or scary. The dens are small like a cavity in some rock or under a tree. West says,

3 (3m 17s):
And they're generally shallow enough that I can just, I have a pole that has a syringe on the end of it. I can just extend that pole and sedate the bear from outside of the dent. I don't even generally even have to go inside

0 (3m 30s):
Generally.

2 (3m 31s):
But then like you get a couple ENTs where it's like you're the only thing between the bear and the exit and that's when it gets kind of sketchy.

0 (3m 41s):
And that's what happened in this case.

2 (3m 43s):
Oh, this one was like on another level though. This one was crazy.

0 (3m 54s):
This one happened on a winy day. The two of them headed out to see bear number 95 in their study. I saw a signal in the G P Ss high, maybe a thousand feet up a steep hillside to get to 'em in the snow. It was hard and cold. And then they struggled to find any opening at all in the rock that could be a den 'cause it's just a blanket of snow everywhere. Search for maybe half an hour.

2 (4m 16s):
And then Wes is like standing on this like tiny little opening. And then I see like these branches right by his feet. And a lot of times bears will like bring branches into their den. So I'm like Wes, like I think you're just standing on top of the dent. And he's just like, no way.

0 (4m 35s):
They clear away the snow and it's an opening the size of a manhole cover going into the side of a sandstone cliff.

2 (4m 41s):
And then like we crouched down and looked and like, I mean you could only see like 20 feet in and it, it is just black. So like honestly this den, it would be terrifying to go in it If you like didn't know anything was in there and like you know that there's a bear in there. So that just like intensifies it so much more. But it's like even if there wasn't a bear, I'd be like, this is like scary.

0 (5m 9s):
Wasn't Jeff discussed whether they're gonna go into this hole? Black bears aren't like grizzlies. They almost never attack people. But going into this very unusual den where the bear might feel trapped or threatened and have no way out except through them as choice. Jeff does talk back to Wes way more than any normal field tech would 'cause he is his brother, but Wes is the boss and he's like, we came this far and we really do need to change that bear's collar.

3 (5m 35s):
And I start crawling in looking for the back of the den, looking for the bear. And it's just not there. And this hole just plunges into darkness. My headlamp only goes so far and I just keep going. And immediately I realized like, shit, this is a really, really long den. This is much longer than anything I've ever seen or even heard of

0 (5m 55s):
How long

3 (5m 56s):
This thing extends 80 feet back. And at the end of it it's just pitch black. You kind of, you really do have to suppress a lot of, a lot of primal stuff that's telling you this is a place where you are not supposed to be. This is not a place for humans.

0 (6m 11s):
Wes is in front, big brother scientist, just behind little brother assistant and their army crawling. 'cause the Tunnel is too low to stand up in. It's pretty crammed. And you know that feeling where you're in your belly in a Tunnel inching towards a bear? No, of course not. You don't know that feeling who has done that. But you have been in this situation of moving towards something scary or dreadful ahead and now you have gotten yourself in it. You can't turn back. You have to keep moving. You just have to deal. And that is what today's show is about. We have this story and then we have another one in the second half of the show. And yes, it's This, American, Life, From WB, e z Chicago, Ira Glass. Anyway, so they're edging towards this bear, right?

0 (6m 52s):
The Tunnel was gently swooping downward. And the smell, you may be wondering about the smell, it's like wet earth, musty,

3 (7m 0s):
The bear brings in a nest of like pine tree bows and other sticks and stuff. So it does kind of smell cedar and nice too. Hmm.

2 (7m 8s):
Like it's musty, but it's honestly not as bad as what you would think because like when a bear goes into a hibernation west will give you a lot more scientific name on this. But they like create like a butt plug of like poop so that they won't poop the entire time they're in their den. So there's like no feces or like urine in there. So it honestly isn't terrible.

0 (7m 34s):
They may be 15, 20, 25 feet into the Tunnel. And what says headlamp points at the far end.

3 (7m 40s):
And I just see these two green eyes at the very end of this Tunnel staring back at me. And the thing about these hibernating bears is they bears don't hibernate very deeply. So if a bear hears you approaching its den, it can come outta that hibernation. And generally within five to 10 minutes they can be mobile. And so this bear was awake and they have, they have the torpedo lucidum, which is the thing you see in cat size or deer eyes or whatever that reflects light back at you. And, and they reflect a really kind of green glow. And so it's just, again, the stuff of nightmares, like you're crawling down a deep dark hole in the mountains and there's two green eyes shining back at you.

2 (8m 19s):
The light starts to catch these two eyeballs at the very end of the den that are just like gleaning back at us. So at that point I'm like terrified and I start kind of freaking out. I start saying like, Wes, this is crazy. This is crazy. Like I don't know about this.

3 (8m 37s):
And Jeff just started saying, we shouldn't be here, we shouldn't be here, we shouldn't be here. It was like a mantra that he was repeating and like

2 (8m 43s):
I keep like saying that

3 (8m 44s):
And it was starting to really freak me out. Like I, I was trying to summon all this courage and draw in all my experience and then I have him behind me telling me that we just should not be in there. And so I turned around and then

2 (8m 58s):
Wes just goes,

0 (8m 59s):
Jeff, shut up.

2 (9m 3s):
So I was then like my immediate response was like, you're so brave.

3 (9m 8s):
And then he just started repeating, you're the bravest person I've ever met. You're the bravest person I've ever met. And that helped actually. That made me feel a lot better.

0 (9m 17s):
It's funny how he needs to keep saying something to, to have some place to put his fear.

3 (9m 22s):
Yeah. Yeah. I think for him he needed to vocalize that. And for me, I was really going inward and just trying to focus on the bear. And I was looking for any cues that bear was going to be aggressive. And at that point you'll leave.

0 (9m 38s):
What are you watching for?

3 (9m 41s):
They make a really distinctive sound when they're really, really upset. And then they also can, they make this really interesting jaw popping noise too. It literally like clacks its jaws, it pops its jaws, it's kind of like a sound. And then from there it proceeds to swatting the ground with its paws. And then if it is still upset, it'll bluff charge you. And a bluff charge is just where the bear comes at you. And then Stops short.

0 (10m 13s):
Are you terrified?

3 (10m 15s):
Oh yeah. Oh yeah. I was absolutely terrified. I have a video of that I took, when I got close to the bear, I took a quick video from my phone and I, at the very end of it, you just hear me say, this is so scary.

5 (10m 28s):
Okay. Oh this is so fucking scary. This is so scary.

3 (10m 34s):
Because it really was, it was terrifying.

5 (10m 39s):
Oh my gosh.

3 (10m 40s):
All of my body, a lot of my psyche was saying, you absolutely need to get out of this den. It's this feeling of being a soft pink human being in a place where we don't belong.

0 (11m 0s):
Of course, Wes being in the Tunnel with his bear, he's a bear expert and he's thought some about what this experience must have been like for the bear

3 (11m 9s):
Where these black bears live, they're, they're top dog. There's nothing bigger or more dangerous than them. And so they don't have stuff that crawls into their dens and gets closer and closer to them. So it must be a very unique experience for them as well. Like I'm obviously a bear like what the hell is this thing doing in here?

0 (11m 28s):
Like when the bear sees you, like it knows it can kick your ass, right? Like it can just look at you and it doesn't even without even thinking or doing any math in its head or something, it just sees your size and it just knows like, well you're not a threat. But then is it scared?

3 (11m 43s):
Yeah. You know, I think the thing that you, that we have to realize with wild animals is that for them a fight means much more than can I win or, or will I lose? It's like, am I, am I going to be injured in this? Because for any animal bears included, if they sustain a big injury in any kind of, you know, scuffle or fight or whatever, that could be a death sentence for them because then they no longer have the ability to feed or escape or even move. And so they tend to be very risk averse.

0 (12m 16s):
So Wes and Jeff keep army crawling forward with a syringe full of sedative on the end of a seven foot pole. And finally Wes gets close enough to jab it into the bear mission accomplished, right?

2 (12m 28s):
But we jab it, the bear doesn't react at all.

0 (12m 32s):
Doesn't flinch and most important does not fall asleep. Partly 'cause it's gotten so big since they've last seen it like 350 pounds, which would require way more sedative than Wes gave it. So the two of them head back out of the cave to prepare another dose of sedative, which they definitely are gonna need. That job goes to Jeff, my little brother.

2 (12m 52s):
And it was something I was fully capable of doing, but I think like I was still just like dialed up all the way to 11 with like all of my like emotions and my thoughts weren't clear. So I was like doing a terrible job.

0 (13m 6s):
Like your hands aren't totally steady.

2 (13m 9s):
Yeah, I'm just like making a mess. I'm like fumbling around. And eventually the bear like makes its way all the way through the 80 feet of den and starts coming out.

0 (13m 20s):
This is not the plan. It would be very bad for a trak out bear to leave its den at all. It could easily wander off and get lost in the snow in the middle of winter. And Wes and Jeff, remember they're bear guys, they do anything they can think of. So the bears in this research don't get hurt by it and experience the minimum amount of discomfort or stress. They have another field tech with them who's been waiting outside the Tunnel and Wes orders. That guy now keep the bear in the den and the guy starts swatting at the bear with a plastic shovel to keep it from emerging.

3 (13m 49s):
And it just does not care. It's not even registering that he's there and just keeps walking past him.

0 (13m 55s):
Wow.

3 (13m 56s):
So yeah. So at that point I ran and the thing that I really didn't want to have happen was the drug take hold while this bear was trying to get away and have it tumble down the hillside or down a cliffside or something like that. I just wasn't willing to let that happen. So I ran and actually grabbed the bear by its back legs and pulled them out from under it and then I straddled the bear and pushed its head down into the snow. In the meantime, I had sent

0 (14m 25s):
Jeff over to try, wait you, what are you talking about? You're able to do that. 'cause the bear is kind of like, is the bear walking like a sort of cartoon, you know, drunk bear kind of thing? Like it's staggering along.

3 (14m 37s):
Yeah, that's honestly exactly how it was walking. That's a perfect representation.

0 (14m 43s):
So he is on top of this bear straddling it, holding its collar and head down in the snow. He's actually gotten a second dose of sedative into him by then, but the bear is still awake and rests then looks over at Jeff who is so panicked that he has dropped the entire case of drugs. Jeff is supposed to be preparing a third dose

3 (14m 59s):
And I just yell at Jeff, I say, Jeff, come grab this bear. I'll do the drugs.

0 (15m 4s):
Kind of an unusual set of sentences to say to anybody. They switch places. Jeff is now the one straddling the bear hands on its collar and the bear gets up and starts to move again.

2 (15m 15s):
And it's almost like, like you know that movie The Replacements where like Keanu Reeves is a quarterback or like any of like the football movies where like the big like hefty lineman catches the ball and then they're just like slowly moving towards the end zone and the whole defense jumps on him and they're just kind of like falling off of him and trucking and like, and he is

0 (15m 38s):
Still going towards the goal line. Yeah.

2 (15m 40s):
Is going in like a straight line with all these people hanging on him. It is kind of like that we are just like hanging on this black bear and it's just like slowly going in a straight line,

0 (15m 50s):
Just holding it by the collar, getting dragged along, slowing it down a little bit. But that's all I can do. And this thing with this bear where none of the normal rules apply totally off the map.

2 (16m 0s):
Like I was like, this is what I have to do, but like I can't believe I'm doing it. It was like surreal. Like I just like, it was like I was in a dream. It like starts making it way, its way to like more of a downward slope too. So now it's like re I'm really hard for me to stop it and I'm like just kind of like on the back of it and it walks straight into a pine tree and like literally like couldn't figure out what was going on and just like tried to keep walking forwards like into a tree.

0 (16m 38s):
Wes remembers it more like a juniper bush. But in any case it does its job. The bear Stops finally passes out on the ground. They do their business, change the collar, examine the bear, and then so the bear doesn't get glossed and confused in the snow when it wakes up, they grab its limbs and drag it 15 yards or so back up the slope to the opening of the Tunnel, which is exactly as completely exhausting as you would imagine. It takes maybe half an hour, the temperature's dropping. Wes is worried that the bear might get cold. So he leaves a blanket on top of him before they go. Looking back, what Wes and Jeff both talk about is the terror that they felt in that Tunnel.

0 (17m 20s):
Wes says it was a whole new level of fear he didn't know existed. Like the kind of primal fear that long ago humans must have had all the time basing off with animals that wanted to kill them and eat them.

3 (17m 31s):
And it's something that that we've forgotten. But I think it's something that still sits deep inside of us that when you do have these experiences with large animals, that it, it bubbles to the surface. And in a way it was really intoxicating. I'll, I'll tell you, like that night I didn't sleep a wink because my adrenaline was just cosing through my body. It just made me feel honestly like made me feel very alive. And even when I think back on that, I can still remember the feelings I had that night as I went back to my, the cabin and everything, just how bright the stars seemed and how crisp the air felt. And it really just reminded me how good it is to be alive.

0 (18m 20s):
And the bear, the bear was fine. The drugs he gave it probably doesn't remember the details of what happened, Wes said. And over a year later, Wes went back to that Tunnel when the bear wasn't in it, found the blanket inside the bear must have liked it a little. It smelled like bear fur all over it. Wes took it back, kept it as a souvenir. He says it still smells faintly like bear. After the break, we have another story of people thrown into a dangerous and utterly foreseeable situation and how they handle it.

0 (19m 2s):
In this episode that we're calling The Bear at the End of the Tunnel Wes and Jeff by the way, have a podcast where they tell stories of animal attacks. It's called Tooth and Caw. If you enjoyed the story that you just heard, you should know that by their standards this story was not so special. The ones on their show way more eventful, more in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues, this American American Life from Ira Glass. Today's program again, The Bear at the End of the Tunnel stories of people who find themselves trapped in some dangerous situation and now they just have to deal. We have arrived at act two of our show, act two, the devil's in the details and there are so many details.

0 (19m 42s):
So a few months ago we brought you this story from one of our producers, Miki Meek about an O B G Y N in rural Idaho who was deciding whether or not to leave the state after Roe versus Wade was overturned and abortion was outlawed there.

7 (19m 54s):
I don't wanna leave here, I mean I don't wanna leave, but I don't know if I can stay

0 (20m 3s):
This O B G Y N. Amelia Hunsberger was facing in Idaho a set of abortion laws that kicked in after Roe was overturned that are some of the most restrictive in the country. And can I just say, I think when most of us think of these laws, we think of their effect on abortion clinics and abortion care providers. That wasn't this story. Amelia was a general OB, G Y N at a hospital. In other words, doing pap smears, birth control, delivering babies. And her hospital did not terminate pregnancies unless it was a medical complication, which by the way is like most hospitals in the United States. But when murder was overturned and these new laws in Idaho took effect, they defined abortion in the broadest possible terms.

0 (20m 42s):
It was effectively a complete ban. Even pregnancies that weren't gonna be viable could not be terminated. And any doctor who performed an abortion breaking those rules face severe consequences. They could lose their medical license, they could go to prison for two to five years and they could get sued, family members could sue. If a rape resulted in a pregnancy and the victim decided to get an abortion, the rapist family could sue the doctor for performing the abortion. And the problem for Amelia, this OB, G Y n, is that she ran into all kinds of situations where in the course of administering normal healthcare for her patients, she could run afoul of the law.

0 (21m 23s):
For instance, if a patient showed up at her hospital miscarrying and bleeding uncontrollably in the past, Amelia could terminate the pregnancy to stop the bleeding. But now she could be charged with a felony if she did that, if she did anything to terminate a pregnancy, if it still had a quote, fetal heartbeat. That's a phrase in the law though, in the early stages, it's not a heartbeat, it's just electrical activity and some tissue that could eventually become a heart. So now when Amelia faced pregnancies with serious complications, situations where the longer she waited to act, the more danger the patient was in, she can no longer just think about what was best for the patient who was in front of her.

7 (22m 0s):
You know, when you do surgery like that or somebody's having ongoing active bleeding that's already high stress and that sort of high stress like I trained for that, I know what to do with that. I can handle that. Then you add in this other weird layer of like, is her brother gonna not understand that this was a not viable pregnancy and that her life was at risk? And like, what about her mom? What about her partner? What about her sister? Like are, do these people understand how serious this condition is? Or do they only understand that I removed a pregnancy that had a heartbeat?

7 (22m 42s):
I don't know, how am I supposed to know?

0 (22m 44s):
So she worried about getting sued, she worried about getting prosecuted. This came up all the time. At the end of our story back in March, Amelia was still hanging on in Idaho, still deciding. Since then, so much has happened. Just a few weeks after we heard that story, Amelia decided she was gonna move away 'cause of Idaho's abortion laws. She was one of the first OB GYNs in the state to announce she was going about a week after that. Something that she feared might happen someday, happened a lot quicker than she'd imagined. The hospital where she practiced Bonner General Health announced that it was shutting down its entire labor and delivery department.

0 (23m 26s):
The hospital cited the new laws as one reason. They said recruiting new doctors would be quote, extremely difficult. Finances was the other reason. Since then, all three of the other OB GYNs who shared a practice with Emelia have left the state. What Emelia dreaded most in moving away was what was gonna happen to her patients. How would all this affect everyone in Idaho trying to have a baby? We thought about that for today's show because what would happen to them? This was in a sense, the bear in the Tunnel, the difficulties and possible danger that all those patients face 'cause of the new laws. And what has unfolded since has been pretty dramatic.

0 (24m 8s):
Our producer, Miki Meek went back to talk to patients and to the lawmakers who put them into the situation that they're in, in the state. Here's Miki.

8 (24m 17s):
I talked to half a dozen pregnant women who'd been planning to deliver at Bonard General and suddenly found themselves contorting their lives around logistical problems they had never imagined facing for something as every day as trying to have a baby in the state of Idaho. Brooke Maycumber is 25 years old and was days away from giving birth. When I reached her, Amelia had been her doctor and Brook's Plan had been to do her prenatal appointments at Bonner General and deliver there too. But now the closest Idaho hospital with a labor and delivery department was almost two hours away in a small city called Coeur d'Alene. She had to take her three little kids with her in the car on a four hour round trip for every prenatal appointment, blood pressure, fetal heartbeat, four hours for a 15 minute check-In the

9 (25m 3s):
Days that we would have to go out to Coeur d'Alene, it was like from nine 30 to six o'clock at night, I would have my sister, who she lives in Spokane, so she's about 35 minutes from Coeur d'Alene, but she would hang out with the kids so I could go to my appointment and then we would have to like go out for lunch or do a picnic and then go to a park because I'm like, they can't just sit in the car for four hours back to back

8 (25m 29s):
The distance of the hospital. Also worried her. She was freaked out about not getting to the hospital in time and giving birth on the side of the road. Her labors have always been pretty fast. Would she have time to make it to the hospital? When Brooke got three weeks away from her due date, she couldn't take being on high alert all the time. So she moved in with her mom, who lived two hours away close to Brooke's new hospital. Brooke took the kids with her, her husband couldn't join them because of work and her mom was working every day. So Brooke was caring for three little kids, basically on her own at eight months pregnant. It was hard to leave her husband, but splitting up their family temporarily was the only solution they could come up with.

9 (26m 9s):
Me and my husband have never really been apart before, and so like being in a bed alone has been strange. And then our two boys, they've had some trouble sleeping, so they'll wake up in the middle of the night. So then both the boys will crawl into bed with me and then I wind up like on the couch because I'm like, I need to try to at least get one more hour of rest.

8 (26m 29s):
Bonner General had been the only labor and delivery unit in its region of Northern Idaho. When it shut down, it became a statistic and a whole separate longstanding crisis. The closure of labor and delivery surfaces and rural hospitals all over the country. Nearly half of rural community hospitals no longer offer obstetrics care. The chaos created by Bonner General's closure for the women I spoke with involved the most basic, important stuff, childcare, money. Some women told me they would lose a day's worth of pay every time they had to drive to an appointment. They talked about having to budget hundreds or even thousands of extra dollars for travel or housing in a place closer to a labor and delivery department, or switching to a midwife not covered by insurance, or if they went to another state to get care insurance might not cover that either.

8 (27m 19s):
I talked to one woman who told me she bought helicopter insurance for a medical evacuation flight in case she started hemorrhaging or had some other kind of emergency complication. Turns out it's cheaper than you'd think. $75 and she wasn't the only one. Helicopter insurance for normal pregnancies. This woman's name is Jessie Grossman. She's 32 years old and this was her first kid and in Idaho, she worried the abortion laws tied doctor's hands in too many cases.

10 (27m 49s):
So I decided what I put in my birth plan was that if we do have to transfer to the hospital, I wanna be taken in Washington. Like I can be less worried about dying. Yeah, basically. But you know, then of course I'm just spiraling about like, well, what if the worst case scenario happens? And what if I have sepsis? Is the helicopter gonna be able to get us to Spokane in time? And like, you know, just this like, am I gonna die? Is my baby gonna die? Like fear? There's no guarantees

8 (28m 23s):
For anyone, pregnant person, doctor, anyone who might wanna look at the maternal mortality statistics in Idaho, since the new laws passed, the state used to have a committee that tracked maternal deaths and their causes, but it doesn't anymore. The legislature decided not to renew it in its last session. Idaho is now the only state in the country without a committee like this. So that's the situation for these women who just needed general OB, G Y N care during their pregnancies. But then there are the high risk patients, which includes, by the way, anyone who's expecting twins, anyone with high blood pressure or diabetes, anyone over 35 and anyone whose pregnancies include rare complications.

8 (29m 11s):
These people are in a much more dire situation in Idaho now because they may need what's called a maternal fetal medicine doctor. These are highly skilled OB GYNs specialists at keeping both the fetus and the patient alive and healthy through these pregnancies. And these doctors have been leaving the state. Kayla Smith had a maternal fetal medicine doctor. Her first pregnancy had complications, but things were going smoothly with this one. It was a boy. She and her husband had picked out a name Brooks, and then when she was 19 weeks, she went in for her anatomy scan.

11 (29m 44s):
And I, I just remember the Sonograph, like, I know they can't say anything, but she just like kept going over his heart like quite a bit. And so of course I'm like talking myself down like it's fine. Like, you know, it's just different this time. Like each person has a different way of doing things. And then it was just really quiet and then she left. And so Dr. Cooper walked into the room,

8 (30m 13s):
Dr. Kylie Cooper, her maternal fetal medicine specialist.

11 (30m 16s):
I just remember she had a diagram and she, I just remember her being like, I've never seen a heart defect this severe before. Like they couldn't really see the baby's aorta at all. Like his, I guess aortic arch wasn't really formed.

8 (30m 37s):
The only thing Kayla wanted to know was could Brooks survive past birth? She and her husband had already decided they could care for a child with special needs. So Dr. Cooper referred her to a pediatric cardiologist, but he told her no Brooks's chances of survival were very unlikely. He called some of the best pediatric hospitals in the country and none of them could offer her a surgical option to fix his heart. She remembers sitting in an ultrasound room with her doctor.

11 (31m 4s):
She's like, If, you decide to continue this pregnancy like I am here for you and we will figure out what that means and where we need to go from here. She's like, but If, you do decide that you did not wanna continue this pregnancy. She's like, I'm just really sorry. There's just something I personally can do for you.

8 (31m 23s):
And you understood at that point like this is because of the laws?

11 (31m 26s):
Yeah, yeah. I mean her hands were tied. I knew, I knew she was protecting herself, but also like I would never ask her to be in that position. Yeah, we just all kind of looked at each other like, what the hell do we do? Now?

8 (31m 42s):
Most patients like Kayla, whose pregnancies have what are called lethal and life limiting fetal anomalies choose termination because continuing their pregnancies will result in miscarriage, stillbirth or death shortly after delivery. But Kayla's doctor could not offer her a termination just a week or so before this terminating a pregnancy like Brooks would not have been considered an illegal abortion in Idaho. But now under Idaho's new laws, it was. So Kayla started asking her doctor about what if she did continue her pregnancy and delivered Brooks, what would it be like for him? Would he feel any pain during the birth? Would he suffer from air hunger, feel breathlessness as he gasped for air But?

8 (32m 27s):
of course, her doctor couldn't guarantee that he wouldn't feel anything even with palliative care and morphine.

11 (32m 33s):
So then it just also felt like there was only one option and it wasn't one that we wanted to make, but like, I don't want my son to suffer. I don't, I'm not gonna put myself through that. And also like risk my own life because Dr. Cooper kept reiterating to me, she's like, you have a 40% chance of getting preeclampsia Again,

8 (32m 54s):
Preeclampsia is one of the leading causes of maternal mortality. It usually involves a surgeon in blood pressure that can seriously harm or kill a pregnant patient. It's unpredictable and hard to know when it'll happen and how severe it will be. Which brings us to the main thing. Doctors find so frustrating about Idaho's new abortion laws. There's language in the law that says they can't terminate a pregnancy unless it's quote to prevent the death of the pregnant woman. Dr. Cooper said she doesn't know what that means. Does it mean she'd have to wait for Kayla to be near death's door from preeclampsia before she could intervene? Her whole training, all doctors' training is to stop problems before death ever becomes imminent.

8 (33m 37s):
The only other situation where Dr. Cooper could terminate a pregnancy is if the fetal heartbeat stopped. If the fetus was dead. Kayla described her options in Idaho as a quote, shit buffet.

11 (33m 49s):
So do I risk going to term knowing that I'm not even gonna have a son to take home and risk my life and not be there for my daughter? I mean, I wanna make it very clear that I was at that point, 20 weeks pregnant. Like I could feel him move. He was very active and like what that does to someone's mental health. It's just devastating because I felt, I like just felt trapped. There are some really dark thoughts that I never thought I would've thought.

11 (34m 34s):
Things like, you know, is there a chance that his heart will stop because I knew where, where I am currently at in Idaho that would be a reason for them to help me.

8 (34m 46s):
I heard this from other pregnant women in Idaho with lethal fetal anomalies. They found themselves wishing for the heartbeats to stop hearing that Brooks could suffer If. you made it to term. Kayla decided to lead the state in order to end her pregnancy. She got an appointment at a hospital in Seattle because she was so far along 21 weeks, second trimester. And because it wasn't clear if her insurance was going to cover it, she had to pay almost $15,000 up front. She and her husband took out a loan and then drove seven and a half hours with their two-year-old daughter. Kayla had a choice of how to end her pregnancy with a surgical procedure or by inducing labor early.

8 (35m 28s):
Kayla knew she wanted to induce. She delivered Brooks after 12 hours of labor. He was stillborn. She says there was this weird eerie silence in the delivery room and then everyone left so she and her husband could hold Brooks.

11 (35m 43s):
There were things that like came up after that were kind of like someone just, you know, people saying congratulations, like just walking in the room and oh my God,

8 (35m 52s):
Because they didn't know,

11 (35m 53s):
Right? Right.

8 (35m 57s):
Brooks was cremated. Two weeks later, Kayla made the seven and a half hour drive back to Seattle to pick up his ashes.

11 (36m 4s):
My parents would've, without a doubt, driven up to Seattle to get him if I needed them to. And you know, brought him to us when they were able to come over here. But I just remember like talking with my husband and being like, I, I, it doesn't make me feel good. Like I feel like I just need to go. And he was like, then you just need to go. And so I drove. I drove over to Seattle with my daughter. It was one of those things that I was like, I just need to be in charge of this so I know what's happening.

8 (36m 36s):
Kayla was the first case like this that her doctor, Dr. Cooper handled after Idaho's abortion laws changed her first case where she couldn't do anything to help. Then there were more patients like Kayla, she couldn't help. And in April of this year, she was the first maternal fetal medicine doctor to leave Idaho because of its abortion laws. There was already a shortage of these specialists at Idaho before the laws went into effect only nine in the entire state. Now there are just five and one of those will retire before the end of the year. That fear that every pregnant woman I talked to in Idaho had that they'd be left totally on their own in a medical emergency.

8 (37m 23s):
It happened to Becca. The last patient, Dr. Cooper had to tell, I'm sorry, I can't help you. Before she moved out of Idaho, Becca is 31. She lives in the Boise area and used to oversee a fitness club. She went to college on a pole vaulting scholarship. When she was about 16 weeks pregnant. She learned that her fetus had a genetic anomaly. Multiple organs were developing abnormally, including its heart and kidneys. If she continued the pregnancy, she'd likely miscarry and was at risk for preeclampsia or severe hemorrhaging.

12 (37m 57s):
You know, when you see in movies and people get like, you know, fatal diagnosis and they just kind of go numb and all you hear is a blabbering doctor in the background. And I don't actually remember a whole lot of that conversation. I just remember sitting there and trying not to baw my eyes out because we'd wanted this one. We wanted to grow our family. We tried for almost a whole year for this one, and we told people, we're like, yeah, we're pregnant. It's gonna be exciting. You know, we think it's gonna be a little girl or something, you know.

8 (38m 29s):
She decided to make the same choice. Kayla made, leave the state. Becca drove to Portland, Oregon to terminate her pregnancy at a clinic. But that's not what she and her husband told their family and friends.

12 (38m 40s):
We were not comfortable being outright and telling them exactly why we were going to Portland. So we told family and friends that we were going for genetic testing. Yeah, just 'cause it is so controversial right now in our state. And we didn't want to risk losing good relationships if it came down to it.

8 (39m 0s):
Becca's story is different from Kayla's because she wasn't able to get the full procedure. The night before her appointment for a surgical termination, she started miscarrying. It was around midnight. She was at a hotel with her husband and two year old daughter who were sleeping.

12 (39m 16s):
And I was just laying in bed and I started counting and counting and contractions were happening every 30 seconds. And so the only thing that I kept thinking to myself was like, oh no, this is, it's happening. And so the, the only thing I could think of was to lay on my side to breathe through it and relax and just think to myself like, I have to keep this thing in. I've got less than eight hours. Gotta keep it in. Gotta keep it in.

8 (39m 47s):
The clinic. Didn't open until the morning. So Becca woke her husband who phoned the clinic's on-call. Doctor Becca says the doctor told them she'd be fine. She was just cramping her contractions continued to get more intense, surging. And then backing off, her husband kept going out to the hotel hallway to call the doctor again. They thought about getting an ambulance, but knew their insurance wouldn't cover it. Becca says she forced herself to not make a sound, no crying or groaning. Her daughter was sleeping in a pack and plane near her and she didn't wanna wake her up and scare her. And what happens next gets graphic

12 (40m 23s):
And then like right around four o'clock is when it all of a sudden, like it was just a consistent intense, just like curdling, like you wanna scream and grit your teeth contraction. And it lasted what seemed like forever. And then the pressure was completely gone. And then all of a sudden I started leaking amniotic fluid everywhere. So I ran to the toilet and all of a sudden, you know, my body once again had one another one of those contractions and just squeezing like, you're gonna squeeze all your organs out of you.

12 (41m 6s):
And out came the baby. And I looked down at the toilet bowl and there I was. And I just kind of sat there and just stared at it.

8 (41m 23s):
Becca got into the hotel shower and again says she didn't make a sound even when her husband was trying to get her uterus to contract, so she'd stop bleeding, which meant needing his fist, fist into her lower abdomen. The way the doctor instructed him over the phone, she says it was incredibly painful.

12 (41m 39s):
And so laying in the shower and is just streams of blood going into the drain. And the whole time you're just like, why is this happening? This should not be happening.

8 (41m 51s):
If Becca had been able to get a termination in Idaho, it probably wouldn't have her doctor. Kylie Cooper could have done the procedure. As soon as she decided Becca would've been in and out in a day, not in a hotel room far from home. In the morning when the clinic opened up, a couple of employees showed up to collect the fetus. Becca then hobbled over to the clinic for an exam. It was next to her hotel and she had to walk past a line of anti-abortion protesters. Her husband had to stay behind to watch their daughter. When she came back, they drove home to Idaho seven hours. They sat silently almost the whole way Before talking to Kayla and Becca.

8 (42m 35s):
One part of the post Roe experience I'd never heard about was that people who had to travel out of state to terminate safely had all these complications figuring out what to do with the remains because of rules about traveling across state lines with human remains. Becca had wanted to donate the body for medical research to give her pregnancy loss more meaning, but for logistical reasons. At the clinic, she didn't get that option. Becca and her husband decided to cremate, but they had no idea when the clinic would send the remains.

12 (43m 4s):
A couple weeks later were home and postal worker comes up to our door and was like, Hey, I'm here. You need to sign for a package. And I was like, oh, okay. There's this white box that says remains labeled on every single side of the box.

8 (43m 22s):
For some reason, the box was addressed to baby and not the parents.

12 (43m 26s):
And the postal worker doesn't actually realize it until I was signing for it. And she saw the name on the top and her face just fell. And she was like, okay, bye. And immediately just left. And I was just like, so I just grabbed the box and shut the door and just sat down

8 (43m 46s):
As a terrible coda to a terrible experience back home. Becca worried that people who'd help them go out of state might get in trouble if she talked about it. It wasn't clear who a prosecutor might go after. So in the earliest hardest days, she had a secret instead of just a loss.

12 (44m 2s):
I didn't feel like I could openly talk about it. And 'cause a lot of the grieving process, at least for me, is being able to talk about it, write about it like, you know, even just sympathize or empathize with other people who've gone through similar situations. You know, people, they just don't. It made it a muted and quiet, very lonely grieving process.

8 (44m 36s):
Becca and Kayla met recently. They're part of a group of people with other patients and doctors who are trying to sue the state, hoping to expand the exceptions in the abortion laws to include lethal fetal anomalies like the ones they had in their pregnancies. And most important, they want the law to allow doctors to provide abortions to preserve a person's health, not just to prevent their death, which is the language in the law right now. Their case was filed by the Center for Reproductive Rights, who filed similar legal actions in other states with restrictive laws. They represented the abortion clinic in the Supreme Court case that overturned Roe. I contacted the two Idaho lawmakers in the House and Senate who sponsored the law that criminalizes abortion.

8 (45m 20s):
I wanted to find out how they think it's working. Were they hearing about the kinds of experiences I was, did they know about the doctors leaving the state? Do they think they need to make any changes? One of the law sponsors declined an interview and the other didn't respond to multiple requests. So I reached out to Republican lawmakers who voted for the law back in 2020 before Roe fell. Doctors leave

13 (45m 42s):
The state. And

8 (45m 42s):
I, Senator Jim Guthrie represents a district in southern Idaho and identifies as pro-life. I was surprised he walked into the interview with a notebook, with stats about the number of doctors who left the state and started citing them. So far it's at least 19 doctors that worried him

13 (45m 59s):
I'm pro-life. But I think there's got to be some consideration for the docs as they practice that they're not gonna find themselves in, in in court. The second is the health of the mom. 'cause when you talk about pro-life, the life of a mother is, if you're trying to protect that, that's pro-life too. To me.

8 (46m 19s):
When you first voted for the abortion laws, did you think that Roe would actually fall or did it feel more like a symbolic act at that time?

13 (46m 28s):
That's a good question and I, I think to answer that honestly, probably didn't think it would happen. You know, be because what had gone on for what, 50 years, something like that.

8 (46m 40s):
He's the chair of a committee in the Senate that abortion bills go through before they go to the rest of the legislature for a vote. He says the language and the abortion ban was always more aggressive than his own personal beliefs. At that time. When you voted for them, were you looking that closely at the language of the laws?

13 (46m 57s):
You know, may maybe there was some things overlooked as far as what the consequences would be because they weren't truly consequences. Yet, in your subconscious, you're thinking it's not gonna be overturned, so this is one way you can make a statement. You kind of get into that deal where if you're pro-life, even though the bill has some things that are problematic, you know you are gonna come down on the side of, of erring, on the side of protecting the unborn.

8 (47m 26s):
Like the other lawmakers I talked to, he says he believed the intent of the laws when he voted for them was the shut down abortions happening in clinics in the state not to help shut down a rural labor and delivery unit or force patients to travel out of state because of severe feel abnormalities. Those were consequences he didn't foresee. Now seeing how things have played out, do you regret voting for those laws or would you have done something different? If, you could go back in time.

13 (47m 52s):
In the context of being pro-life and recognizing the importance of the unborn, I feel like that vote at that time with what was in place as far as trying to push back against an embedded law, I, I think that was an appropriate vote at the time. Even though once the Roe versus Wade was overturned is when the reality, I think, sunk in for all of us.

8 (48m 17s):
I talked to three Republican legislators and they were all in the same situation trying to grapple with the consequences of what had just been theoretical policy when they first voted for them, but now was real law affecting real situations in people's lives where Republican lawmakers used to be pretty much on the same side. Now they have different ideas about how to apply pro-life to Idaho's new laws. The next lawmaker I talked to was Representative Brent Crane for nearly 20 years. He's represented a district outside of Boise and makes his living running a fire alarm and security business. He believes in life at conception and says he is proudly sponsored or co-sponsored more than a dozen pieces of anti-abortion legislation.

8 (48m 59s):
He and Senator Guthrie are on the same page as far as seeing the need to broaden exceptions in the abortion laws, but they also have to work alongside lawmakers who think there shouldn't be any exceptions. For instance, for rape and incest victims, representative Crane describes them as still stuck in what he calls a pre-roe mindset where everything is still black and white. He says he used to view abortion that way too, was overturned until Roe finally fell. Yeah,

14 (49m 25s):
I remember sitting by the fireplace with my wife, that's usually where we sit and download in the evening or early morning, and I said, I've gotta get my head around this issue because we are not prepared to deal with this as a state.

8 (49m 38s):
What did you mean by that?

14 (49m 40s):
A, a post row environment is totally different. In, in pre row, all legislation was crafted to try to set questions up before the court. Well, now you're in a post row environment where you have to govern. That means you have to have legislation that that is going to work. And for a pro-life lawmaker, most pro-life lawmakers will take a very conservative and very rigid stance on the issue of life. Like, no, I'm not, I'm not gonna give any ground at all for any more exemptions. That's it. Whatever. For me personally, I think that there are some instances where the families need to make those decisions.

8 (50m 20s):
Again, this is a place where lawmakers who used to all be on the same side of abortion are now in conflict, and there was a draft of a bill in the last legislative session that got to the main problem with the current law. The way OB GYNs see it, the bill would have allowed abortions for some serious health complications before they became life-threatening. In other words, letting doctors make decisions based on the health of the pregnant person, not just their potential death representative crane chairs, the house committee that abortion legislation goes through, and he scheduled a hearing for the bill that he had to cancel at the last minute because he didn't have the votes to get it out of committee for some of his members.

8 (51m 2s):
Considering the health of the pregnant person opened a can of worms

14 (51m 6s):
Behind closed doors, that was part of the debate. And then if we're opening health of the mother, where does that stop? Is it mental health? Is it just tied to physical health? Is it financial health? What, what is how, how are you defining health? The mother

8 (51m 19s):
Representative, Julianne Young, is a Republican from Southeastern Idaho, she's vice chair of that committee and opposed that new language about health complications.

15 (51m 28s):
What I don't want to do is put language in that's so vague that it has the effect of opening the door to abortion in situations where you could protect both lives. And so if we're talking about high blood pressure, if we're talking about conditions that are common to pregnancy, then we don't want that lumped into anything that could be a life-threatening condition for the mother. Because the reality is that as women, we put our lives on the line by choosing to have children. There are always risks with every pregnancy, and you can never eliminate every risk.

8 (52m 2s):
What is your, yeah, what's your medical knowledge of pregnancy?

15 (52m 6s):
Oh, well, I'm not gonna claim to be an OB G Y N, but I've learned a lot over the years and you know, I guess I speak to the issue not as a medical professional, but as a mother. That's really where my expertise is.

8 (52m 23s):
She has 10 children, she switches off bringing her youngest two to the capitol with her, and they sit down on committee meetings and hearings. Also, random fact, turns out my uncle was her orthodontist when she was a kid. Representative Young is wary of letting doctors consider the health of the pregnant person, of giving doctors in Idaho hospitals the kind of control they had before roel. For Representative Young, the sweep of the new laws is not some overreach. It is the point.

15 (52m 52s):
The concern I think, with the health exception is that we have some in the medical community who have practiced in an environment for a lot of years where the life of the child was not valued equally.

8 (53m 3s):
Are you talking about in Idaho hospitals specifically, or like

15 (53m 7s):
Around the country? You know, because that was the way it was. It was a fetus. It was a clump of cells and there wasn't the protection in the courts for the life of the child.

8 (53m 19s):
Unlike Senator Guthrie who is worried about doctors leaving Idaho. Representative Young thinks that some Idaho OB GYNs are exaggerating their fears about prosecution under the law. She says others are scaring themselves by overthinking the phrase to prevent death. She points to language in the law that says they can use their quote, good faith, medical judgment. Representative Crane who talked about the pre-roe and post Roe mindsets of Republicans also agrees with her on this, on this topic. He doesn't see as much gray.

14 (53m 50s):
If you're not performing elective abortions, you have nothing to worry about. It's just like if you're not going over the speed limit, you don't have to worry about a cop pulling you over for speeding.

8 (53m 59s):
Elective abortions is a phrase anti-abortion lawmakers and activists use, but a, but it's not a medical distinction In medicine, any termination of a pregnancy for any reason is an abortion. Whether it's to prevent death or to help rape and incest victims or just not wanting to be pregnant. They're all just called abortions. Disconnects like this in terminology or another frustration, doctors in Idaho have about the new laws, OB GYNs who have left, and ones that are trying to figure out if they can stay but aren't sure if they can stay is they're like, the law is still vague to me. I think vague. What's the

14 (54m 32s):
Vague? Vague, what's the vagueness in

8 (54m 33s):
The law? The vagueness for them. There's an exception and for life of the pregnant patient, but what does that need to be? How does that define, is that 15% close to death, 50%, 45. And also there are these things that come up, you know, this person has preeclampsia. It is gonna develop. I can't say when they're like, I just, I can't operate in that area because there isn't that health language.

14 (54m 53s):
I So do you, I mean, honestly, do you think that if a doctor did, he says, Hey look, I'm gonna have to take your child. Go goes the dad. I'm gonna either have to, if I don't take the child, the mom's gonna die. What do you want me to do? Take the child. He does that and you get a, a wildly aggressive prosecutor that says, I'm gonna take you to court for violating the trigger law in the state of Idaho, you think a reasonable court of people that are made up of just honest citizens like you and I are gonna say, yeah, we're gonna throw you in jail for that. We're gonna prosecute you for that. They're, they're not going to. How long's the, the law been in effect, right? Been in effect a little over a year. Have any doctors been prosecuted? Have any cases come forward? No.

8 (55m 33s):
I mean, I think what the doc doctors are saying is they're like, I know lawmakers are telling us that, but there is no guarantee that a prosecutor isn't gonna come after me. There is no guarantee that a family member isn't gonna sue me, and I don't want to have to go to court. And I've also got kids and I've got a livelihood. You know, we have an ag that's really aggressive. And so they're like, the lawmakers assurance of no one's gonna come after you, you're not gonna lose in court, isn't assurance for me.

14 (55m 58s):
I understand. I mean, I, I spent more than almost 90 days listening to these exact same arguments, and so I, I mean, look, life of the mother is life of the mother. It's, it's not this highly technical, highly nuanced argument that I think that some of these folks are scared about. don don't know. I mean, you're a reporter. I'm, I'm a alarm guy. You know, for me, it's pretty simple life of the mother. Hey, the mother's life. Yeah. Okay. Then, then, you know, I, I have the ability to operate in this space. I mean,

8 (56m 25s):
I think that's where OB GYNs get mad. We have legislators who are not doctors. That's

14 (56m 29s):
True. But, but on the flip side, you have doctors that are trying to tell legislators how to do their job, and we have constituents that are asking us, Hey, this is what we want you to enact. And that's, that's where the tension exists.

8 (56m 49s):
I ran by him and Representative Young, some of the specific experiences I'd heard from pregnant women and OB GYNs, the actual people who've been stalk, shouldering, the emotional and logistical burdens of the new abortion laws and how disconnected they said they felt from this new era in Idaho that's supposed to be pro-life and pro-family. Here's how Representative Young sees this moment.

15 (57m 11s):
So what I hear you describing a lot seems like adjusting to a new situation, and undoubtedly there's a little pain with every change. So there's, we just don't live in a world where everything works out perfectly all the time. And so that just because there's some inconvenience associated with making the policy change to protect life doesn't mean that it's not the right thing to do, because there's always two sides to the story, and there are a lot of babies who are gonna live in this state that might not have lived, and that's valuable. That's worth protecting. That's worth paying a price for, even if it means that there has to be some growing pains associated with that.

8 (57m 59s):
OBGYNs in the state have been telling me that access to good maternal healthcare in Idaho has deteriorated so rapidly over the last year that the state is now in crisis. Does that feel accurate to you? Is crisis the word that you would use?

15 (58m 12s):
Yeah. You know, I guess I haven't seen that yet, but what, what I keep coming back to as a legislator, If, you are a physician that doesn't want to adhere to a standard of protecting both the life of the mother and the life of the child. Then that may be frustrating for you. I, I think there's gonna be some sorting out maybe as the standard of practice adjusts to what the statute is.

8 (58m 40s):
Do you, I mean, I guess the concern is, is like, you know, people in adjustment is, yeah. I guess

15 (58m 46s):
What I'm saying, Miki is I don't think that we have to desert this, this value of protecting life. In order to have a thriving OB community, we should be able to make these two things work together. And it might take a minute to have the conversation and figure it out, but I do believe that it's possible.

8 (59m 7s):
In the year after Idaho's new laws went to effect, representative Young and other lawmakers did end up making a few changes to the law. Some of the most notable abortions are now legal for certain kinds of pregnancies that are never gonna be viable. Viable. Like ectopic pregnancies and abortions are now legal for rape and incest victims. If those victims do it in the first 13 weeks and file a police report. Since most sexual assault victims never report, this is still a steep barrier. But the thing, OB GYNs wanted most new wording that would allow them to consider the health of their pregnant patients. Legislators didn't give them that.

8 (59m 48s):
The lawmakers say they're still working on it, but after that legislative session ended, that's when most of the OB GYNs who left the state or decided to retire early, got out. We're living in this moment where there's a political and ideological sorting happening. In many parts of the country. There are people who are picking up and specifically moving to red or blue states to escape the laws their state legislatures have passed. It just seems easier than trying to change the politics of the place where you live. But the big question for the patients I talked to in Idaho is how many OB GYNs will still be left standing to care for them after the sorting out period.

8 (1h 0m 31s):
Representative Young brought up is finally done in a recent survey. 50% of OB GYNs in the state said they were definitely leaving or still considering leaving 50%.

0 (1h 0m 55s):
Miki Meek is one of the producers of our show. Two of the women in her story with high risk pregnancies. Becca and Kayla are pregnant again, both with girls. Kayla recently moved outta state 'cause of the abortion laws.

16 (1h 1m 10s):
Food speed ahead. You heard what I just said. And don't look back. It's time to get away and don't waste your time 'cause that would be a crime. You've got a plan. Don't wait another day.

0 (1h 1m 33s):
Well, today's program is produced by a view of Kornfeld and Nancy Dyke. The people who put together our show today include Jane Ackerman, James Bennett ii, Susan Burton, Jen Bonds, Sean Cole, Michael Mte, Bethel, hti, Nelson, Catherine Raimondo, Naty, Raymond Opi, Lily Sullivan, Francis Swanson, Christopher. So Matt Tierney, Julie Whitaker, and Diane Wu, our managing editor, Sara Abam, our senior editors, David Keon. Baumer, executive editor is Emmanuel Barry. Special thanks today to Emily Corrigan, Stacy side, Katie, Brad, Warren Sanders, Leandro Roy, Jacqueline Kettler, Paige Rie, Jen Jackson Quintano, Becky Yengo, Liz Woodruff, and Allie Block from the podcast, the Nocturnists. Our website, This American Life dot org, where you can stream our archive of over 800 episodes for absolutely free.

0 (1h 2m 14s):
This American Life dot org. This American Life is delivered to public radio stations by P R X, the public Radio Exchange. X is always Joe Bro's, co-founder, Mr. Troy Malatia. I don't know how he snuck into the Republican caucus this week. Has it been fighting over who the new House speaker should be? He said he totally figured out how to tell when any Republican was gonna vote against Jim Jordan. They

3 (1h 2m 38s):
Make a really distinctive sound when they're really, really upset.

0 (1h 2m 44s):
I'm Eric Glass back next week. More stories of This, American Life.

16 (1h 2m 49s):
Yeah, you knew all along this thing would turn. So

0 (1h 3m 15s):
This is Ira glass. Remember in the TV show, Buffy the Vampire Slayer, how annoyed and offended the vampires on the show would get. Every Halloween seeing people dress up in vampire costumes. They were like, seriously, that's how you see us? That's what you think. We are next week on the podcast of This American Life. We take that logic further, all that supposedly spooky stuff. At Halloween, we say, forget that. Let's talk about the everyday stuff that's truly scary. It's next week on the podcast or in your local public radio station.