BetterHelp (1s):
Support for This American. Life comes from BetterHelp online therapy. The winter season can be a lot. Therapy can be a bright spot amid the holiday stress, the seasonal depression, or whatever you might be experiencing. It's something to look forward to, to make you feel grounded and give you the tools to manage everything going on. Find your bright spot this season with BetterHelp. Visit BetterHelp dot com slash t today to get 10% off your first month. That's BetterHelp dot com slash TL

1 (35s):
From WB, e z Chicago. It's This American Life. I'm Nancy Updike, filling in for Ira Glass. Today's show is a rerun, a good one. And I'm gonna start with this story that I wanna share. It's a little personal. I was at Mac, the makeup store, not the computer store, and I was buying foundation, which I almost never wear. It's the makeup you put all over your face to give yourself the pretend perfect skin. And I asked the salesman for help finding the right color, and he looked at me and he said almost like he was thinking out loud, he said, your neck, it's so much more yellow than your face.

1 (1m 16s):
And then he turned away to start looking for the impossible color that would solve this problem of the yellow right next to the so much more yellow. And if you're thinking, oh, this was just a sales technique to invent a problem and then offer to fix it with more products, I wish that that had been the case. But this was not an upsell, this was a creed occur. the man really just seemed to be expressing his frustration at this stumper of my mismatched face and neck.

1 (1m 60s):
This sort of out of the blue, perfectly sharpened comment. Stops you cold. Because it's not an insult, it's an observation that is true. You just hadn't thought of it before. It's shocking because you think I know myself, I know what I've got, what I haven't got. No one's gonna spot something about me that I haven't already seen. Not true. You can be among friends doing something you love, feeling great.

3 (2m 27s):
We were backstage, you know, getting ready to go on preparing. This

1 (2m 31s):
Is D Watson. She was in a play a while back

3 (2m 34s):
And it was all black women. We were all, some of us, most of us were a little bit bigger than the average, you know, and it was a supportive atmosphere. And the subject of big behinds came up. And me having one, I know all about it. And one of the younger cast members, she's about 25, said, my mother thought your butt was so big, it had to be a prop.

1 (3m 0s):
Oh my God.

3 (3m 2s):
And at that moment, I didn't hear anything else anybody said. I, I just was, that was echoing through my head. And I could hear everybody laughing and oh my gosh, that's so funny. And I'm standing there about, I wanted to cry. I really wanted to cry. And I really don't think this young girl really meant to hurt me.

1 (3m 21s):
Well, and, and maybe it's a, like, you know, we're all women and so yeah. You know, this is, it's safe here to say anything.

3 (3m 28s):
Yeah. I think she thought, I would think that was funny. And I, I did not.

1 (3m 40s):
These are not statements that a human being forgets. The moment you hear the observation, it becomes part of how you see yourself seemingly forever. Even something tiny, if it hits you right, can turn into this chirpy little voicemail that your brain is never able to erase. And it doesn't have to be about looks. It can be a comment on how you run or laugh or drive, how much money you make, what books you've read or haven't read. Any outside assessment of you that you never saw coming and could not shake once it was uttered. One of our former producers, Jane Feltus, she's actually now Jane Marie years ago, dated a man who she later decided was a jerk.

1 (4m 21s):
He wanted to make her feel insecure, but one night they were watching TV and her feet were sticking up outta the blanket.

4 (4m 27s):
And he turned to me and he said, oh, you have juice box toes. And I was like, what? And he said, yeah, like Fred Flintstone feet. And he's a caveman. Literally a caveman, A cartoon of a cave, a chubby squat, cartoon of a caveman. And I know it sounds so stupid because who cares what shape my toes are, but you do want the person that you're in love with to just think that every part of you is amazing and beautiful. Or shut up about it, or shut up about it. Maybe they're ugly, don don't know now that I'm looking at them I, don dunno.

4 (5m 11s):
My big toe is definitely square.

5 (5m 18s):
When I get shy kids, one of the things I do with them is I try to give them permission to make fun of me. This

1 (5m 23s):
Is a fifth grade teacher named Matthew Dix, who is either the bravest or the most fool heart man in America.

5 (5m 30s):
And they often come out of their shells by becoming the person who can taunt the teacher.

1 (5m 34s):
That sounds very dangerous.

5 (5m 35s):
No, it is. I mean, you have to, you have to teach them where the line is. And, and sometimes don don't know where the line is either. So

1 (5m 42s):
A few years ago, there was a girl in his class, very shy, and she got the knot that it was okay for her to make fun of Matthew if she wanted.

5 (5m 50s):
So one day she came in and she just walked in very casually. And she looked at me and she said, hi Jerry. And I looked at her and I said, Jerry. And she said, nevermind. And she just walked away. And I knew she was setting me up for some joke. And it went on for days. She would just, every time she'd walk by me, she'd say, Hey Jerry, how's it going? And so finally after about a week, I couldn't take it anymore. And she came in one morning and she said, how you doing Jerry? And I said, fine, who is Jerry? And she said, Jerry's your bald spot.

1 (6m 29s):
Yikes.

5 (6m 29s):
And I tried to play it off like, don, don't have a bald spot. Go sit down, gimme a break. Ha ha. That was like the most ridiculous week long joke I've ever heard in my life. But as soon as my kids left the room to like go to gym, I ran to the bathroom and I leaned over the sink, and at the very top of my head, I had a bald spot that I had no idea about.

1 (6m 51s):
Hey, can I ask a a, a logistical question. How does a fifth grader spot the top of your head?

5 (6m 58s):
Oh, so in my classroom, I, I teach Shakespeare to my students and we have a stage in my classroom. I've built a stage with like curtains and lighting and everything. So if you're standing on my stage in my classroom, you can look down on me

1 (7m 12s):
Now you can say that Matthew brought this on himself. He gives some students permission to make fun of him, and he built a stage where students can peer down at him in judgment. But even if he did none of that, he's still a sitting duck for this exact kind of critical gaze. You have 20 people, you have 20 students,

5 (7m 32s):
Did you say? Yeah, it between 20 and 30 every year.

1 (7m 34s):
Okay. So between 20 and 30 people looking at you all day, every workday and just taking stock of you.

5 (7m 44s):
Yes. It's constant. I had pink eye a couple weeks ago. The kids knew I had pink eye before I did. You know, because they just stare at you all day and they see any sort of minute change in you. You know, you're really the only thing they look at for a great majority of the day. So they notice these little things. You know, if I, if I get a new shirt, they immediately notice everything that changes about me. They notice right away.

1 (8m 12s):
Today on the radio show, I Nancy Yellow Neck Updike bring you stories about people facing the unexpected moment of realizing how other people see them, what that means, and what in God's name to do about it. Today's show, Is That What I Look Like prepare to learn the truth, plus a special Guest appearance that will surprise and delight you. Stay with us Act One blunt force Domingo.

1 (8m 54s):
Martinez has this story about a vision in Brownsville, Texas. Here's Domingo.

6 (8m 60s):
When I was 16, I realized as far as my family went, school was considered my time, which meant I couldn't be pressed into labor by my father or grandmother. They were farm workers and they made no claim on my time when I was supposed to be in school. So I learned to take advantage of this. I'd make it to school before 7:30 AM either by school bus or my mother's Taurus, and then wait out options for escape. By my sophomore year, this kid named Tony Garcia had become my primary friend. Tony was nearly 19 and only a junior, but he didn't seem all that bad because he had good parents and an even better little brother who was about to lap him at graduation.

6 (9m 40s):
Together, Tony and I would find ways to wild away the hours by doing anything other than attending class Before we had to report home. Again, we were big fans of Huckleberry Finn and Tom Sawyer, and we believed we were continuing a long celebrated American tradition by ditching class and getting stoned, a fantasy combination of Mark Twain and Hunter s Thompson. But really we were just lazy and looking for a good time. The skipping itself was not a problem. The problem was taking care of our grades and absences on our report cards before they reached our parents. And it was actually Tony who initiated me into the trade that I eventually pursue graphic design.

6 (10m 22s):
But in this early stage in high school, it was plain and simple forgery. It was no design in what we were doing. It was Tony who placed the first exacto knife I ever held in my hands. And immediately I felt an overwhelming sense of possibility holding that little pen knife. We'd intercept the report cards when they came in the mail. And then Tony took careful pains to explain this whole process to me. His fluky. A term that came uncomfortably close to becoming literal over the photocopier in the library, feeding dimes into the machine like he was playing slots in search of a copy that didn't blur or show the incisions in the original Luke man, he said through his trendy and tinted John Lennon glasses of wanker style. Even then you just gotta remove the two from the 23 absences and then lighten the reproduction.

6 (11m 8s):
And now you've got three absences in first period instead of 23. Now take the eight from the 48, move the four over and put the eight in front of that. And now you have AB in Spanish instead of an F. Oh, I said in total understanding, a big smile growing on my face. Give the man a ride he skips for a day, teach him how to forge. It was ridiculously shortsighted. Sure, but at that age, I never thought further than the immediate threat. Simply convincing my mother, everything was quiet at school, was enough for me dealing with school records and the larger consequences of robbing myself of even a substandard education. All that I would face at a later date and certainly have.

6 (11m 56s):
Tony would usually borrow his mother's car for our expeditions, a blue Oldsmobile Delta 88. We'd leave school and drive to South Padre Island, a resort town at the end of a 28 mile highway that felt much more cosmopolitan than Brownsville, Texas ever could. We did that drive back and forth three or four times a day listening to Led Zeppelin, nodding our heads in unison with whomever else was stoned or drunk in the car. My junior year and his senior year, Tony's parents bought him a Dodge Daytona. It was the year he would most assuredly graduate they felt, and it was a chance for him to develop responsibility in the mornings.

6 (12m 40s):
The minute my mother would drop me off at school and disappear around the corner, Tony would drive around and park right in front of the school to pick me up right in front of everybody. Dude, you gotta come skipping with me today, he'd say. But on one particular morning, late in 1988, I balk, nah, Tony, I gotta go back to class today. I protest. It's Thursday and I haven't been since last week. Look, he says, I got two sundry slips. I can get you back in tomorrow or next week. It's not a problem. And I found a new place to get killer weed. Finding pot was always a problem. So when Tony said he found someone new and it wasn't one of the morons who hung out by the tennis courts before school, I was intrigued.

6 (13m 24s):
We first drive to a housing project east of school where a woman sold $2 quarts of Budweiser out of her living room from a cooler to anyone with money, no questions asked. We buy a couple of quarts and smoke the last half joint Tony has on the way to his new killer weeded supplier. I was getting a bit high when I began to recognize the route he was taking and was inferiorly taken aback when he drove right into my grandmother's driveway. I couldn't understand why. It just didn't make sense. This was the same driveway my family Pontiac would regularly pull into after church on Sundays. When I was growing up in the late 1970s, my mother's mother's house in downtown Brownsville, I was, I think the term is unnerved.

6 (14m 8s):
My two uncles, Johnny and Abel were working on a 79 Camaro. When Tony drives up in Parks Hood to hood with their car, the hood was up and they were both leaning into the guts of the engine. Their heads popped up like bearded biker prairie dogs. I sat frozen in the passenger seat, uncertain what to do next. Tony, noticing that I was startled tells me to be cool to chill out. These guys look mean, but they're all right. Anyways. He says that he is getting outta the driver's side. They're kind of dumb, but they got great weeded. Did I know it? Abel and Johnny had a long history with local biker gangs, even a rumored affiliation with the Hell's Angels. They could get drugs, nobody else could in this town.

6 (14m 50s):
And as a result, there were total burnouts, hardly capable of cogent speech patterns in either English or Spanish. They landed in jail as often as other people attended church. But what they lack in brains, they certainly made up in Braun. Not that they tear apart a teenager like Tony or me, not in the daylight. Anyway, they had a code about that sort of thing. But if they felt cheated, they'd have taken a tire iron to my head long before they recognized me as her nephew. They were that burned out. So I sit there paralyzed in the front seat side B of houses of the holy playing on Tony's cassette deck. And because it's hot, the AC is blasting. So once Tony closes the door, I can't hear anything.

6 (15m 31s):
I just watch as this terrifying pantomime plays out before me. Tony half shaven in his preppy clothes, closes the door and hails his greeting. My Uncle Abel already brain dead from years of sniffing paint, narrows his eyes and suspicion and then Noiselessly responds with a nodding, Hey Tony Averts eye contact looking anywhere but directly at Abel for fear that Abel might charge like a gorilla. Abel gives him a suspicious, quick upward jut of the chin that says, did I sell to you before? Who told you I got weeded? Tony lowers his head and quiet confidence talking to Abel. Then my uncle Johnny nods towards me in the car, says something to Tony.

6 (16m 12s):
They all turn to look at me. My eyes go wide, a big smile on my face nodding. Tony says something and then they all laugh together. Led Zeppelin still plays loudly in the car. Then my uncle Abel slaps Tony on the back and leads him around to the back of the car right where I am. Johnny stands there too, looking at me and smiling makes his index finger and thumb into a mock roach and laughs. I mimic the roach back. Even now he doesn't recognize me. Then Tony and Abel emerge around the other side of the car with Tony's hand in his pocket. And both of them are laughing like they're suddenly old friends.

6 (16m 54s):
Tony turns and waves and both Johnny and Abel wave back. The door opens and Tony says, dude, we got a big joint for two bucks. As he gets in the driver's seat, this has freaked me out to no end. Abel and Johnny are both waving, making the universal roach smoking signal as we drive off and it leaves me feeling really, really conflicted. The car slips up the southern most terminus of Highway 77 and we head north from Urban Brownsville to drive around. As we smoke the joint, Tony lights it and it starts burning purple, purple haze he says, and then follows it with his characteristic. Ah, Hey man, I say, I'm kind of scared about smoking this.

6 (17m 41s):
I've never seen one burn this color. Ah, dude says, Tony, don't worry about it. Those guys got killer weeded, man. They're like bikers or something. It's probably laced with something. That's why it was two bucks. This idea sounds appealing to Tony. It scares the shit out of me. We're both getting incredibly high. Hey man, says Tony, wouldn't it be messed up if like when you were high, your hair went into like a huge orange afro and the higher you were, the bigger your Afro got, you couldn't go anywhere because people would be like, man, that guy stoned. I sit there in Tony's car and think about my uncle's Johnny and Abel.

6 (18m 21s):
Johnny had been stabbed in the back with a flathead screwdriver about a month earlier in a street fight. His lung had been punctured and my grandmother said, you could hear whistling every time he inhaled. He wouldn't go to the hospital to get it treated for three days. We're halfway done with the joint. When I say to Tony, Hey man, I don't want to get stoned anymore. Ah, well put it out. Tony says, nodding his head back and forth to Zeppelin. Tony's left hand is fingering chords into the neck of an imaginary guitar. As he's driving, I watch his fingers move for a few seconds suspended and twisting around like they're an overturned king crab. And I can find no correlation with the chords in the song, man.

6 (19m 1s):
I mean, I don't wanna smoke pot anymore. I say to him, I don't wanna skip class anymore. I want to get back to school. Not today, but like in general. I don't wanna feel like this anymore. Like I'm doing something bad. I feel like this all the time. Now dirty. Look at that really small house over there. We were on an overpass and I just noticed a house beneath us in the Brasswell Country Club. About a quarter of the size of the houses surrounding it. Tony starts laughing so hard, I have to make him focus back on the driving, but then I laugh along with him, you're stoned. He tells me, yeah. I say I'm way stoned.

6 (19m 45s):
Hey man, I say a little later, we're driving back to South Padre Island now. You know those guys we bought weed from earlier today. The bikers. Tony says, that was my grandmother's house, man, those are my uncles. I say, even though I'm really embarrassed by it, Tony finds this befuddling. He can't figure out what the bikers were doing at my grandmother's house. Those dudes were my mom's brother's man, my uncles. I explain. Tony is laughing so hard, he has to pull over to the side of the road. His laughing is infectious. And I find myself laughing right along with them laughing harder than I have laughed in a really, really long time.

6 (20m 25s):
But I'm feeling utterly beyond redemption on the inside. Like I just done something today that I couldn't take back. Like my course was now set

1 (20m 47s):
Domingo Martinez, reading a story from his memoir, The Boy Kings of Texas. Act Two. Not my first time at the rodeo. Parents and children are lifelong mirrors for each other. How do you see me? How do I see myself through my relationship with you? Even when you're not face-to-face with one of your parents. There are conversations between you that play back in your head your whole life, what they said, what you said.

1 (21m 28s):
Sometimes you repeat those conversations to explain to someone else or to yourself who you are or who your parents are. But what If you could rehear the actual dialogue decades later. Not your memory of it, but the words that were truly spoken between you and a parent A while back, I did a story about someone who got that exact chance. Bill Lehey was in his early twenties and on the phone with his father in 1978 when he heard a faint pinging sound on the phone. He mentioned it and his father said, when

7 (22m 0s):
Did that start? It's been a long, I never heard it. No, that's been my bad ear. It's just a pinging like every five seconds. That's funny. Yeah. Remember we're being eaves dropped on monitored or something, huh? Yeah, sometimes in the winter his phone is tapped.

1 (22m 20s):
Two decades later after his father had died, bill was at his dad's house in Ohio cleaning out the office.

8 (22m 27s):
And I opened up a file cabinet and found 30 or 40 cassette tapes with his unmistakable handwritten notations of names and dates and, and I knew instantly what they were, that he had been surreptitiously taping us.

1 (22m 46s):
Even at the time his father was recording, bill had guessed what could be going on. It was the kind of thing his father might do and he did. He recorded hours of calls with Bill and according to his own handwritten labels, he also taped his four other children, his wife, his mother, other relatives, his priest. He recorded calls at home and in the car

7 (23m 8s):
Recording test number four, road noise average to low speed 60 miles an hour.

1 (23m 20s):
From the dates on the cassettes. Bill figured they were an archive of his father trying to get the people around him onto his side. Bill's mother had left his father after 37 years of marriage. Bill remembered the gist and tone of those conversations pretty well. They were memorable and he put off listening to the recordings of them for 12 years. They sat in a black nylon duffle bag that he would move every time the family moved. This was a pile of information Bill wasn't sure he wanted from an era of his life, he knew he didn't wanna relive. He'd sided with his mom in the divorce. Even before the divorce, since junior high, he'd been lobbying her to leave his dad.

1 (24m 1s):
As Bill saw his father. He was smart, tenacious, and a tremendous bully with a bad quick temper and huge blowups. He got worse over time and he's worse when he drank. What Bill remembered from the taped conversations were long calls where his father bullied him and he fought back hard. He saw himself as his mother's advocate and protector.

8 (24m 24s):
I remember him trying to recruit me in his campaign to keep his marriage together and, and so my memory was me saying versions of, look, she doesn't wanna do that anymore. You guys have tried for a long time. Let it go. You know, some version of face facts, it's over.

1 (24m 48s):
So you remember pushing back, verbally arguing with him?

8 (24m 51s):
Yeah. Yeah. All the time.

1 (24m 57s):
After those 12 years of holding onto the tapes, bill finally reached just about the age his father had been when he'd made the recordings and suddenly Bill wanted to hear them. He felt ready but nervous.

8 (25m 9s):
Here was raw data about what I actually did in conversations with my dad and I just took one of the tapes with me, his my name on it and went into our car in the back of our house partially 'cause it was the only place that had a cassette tape recorder that I knew of. And the first thing came on was his voice pretty aggressively questioning me about something. And his voice was as clear as the day I heard it.

7 (25m 46s):
So you got pretty involved there, didn't you? For somebody that didn't wanna take sides? Yeah, I, I I did. He certainly did.

1 (25m 53s):
His father was talking about the fact that Bill and his four siblings all sided with their mother in the divorce in one way or another.

7 (25m 60s):
So why did you do it? What were you feeling? Sorry? For your mother? No, for being oppressed. You think she was going around in a wheelchair. How would you feel Bill and have that kind of a situation where, you know, the mother head's being protected from who? She's got a root of believing that I'm a goddamn bully. She's so psychotic. 'cause she's gotta re believeing that I'm a bastard. That's how psychotic she is.

7 (26m 41s):
How would you feel If? you were me, bill

8 (26m 45s):
And I listened for probably two minutes and I was like, okay, that's what they are. This is just really intense. I put took at the tape out and went back and went into the house, told my wife about it, and didn't listen to them again. For don don't know, three or four months.

1 (27m 10s):
When Bill went back to listening for real, what he heard was his father pushing one main point with him hour after hour, which was how about you talking your mother into trying again?

7 (27m 22s):
How do you feel about that assessment? To give it a try? Yeah, well, just from talking to mother over the months, I I've seen really no sign of changing her mind or, well, has anybody really tried to bill forcibly persuasively? Is it fair that she doesn't try whether she wants to or not? And the answer obviously is no, it isn't fair. They have to go down the drain and lose the war for a few battles without it, without trying is to me absurd.

9 (28m 8s):
Yeah,

7 (28m 9s):
Well, I guess because I see it more than just a, a few battles. Alright, so there was a bunch of 'em. What the hell's the difference? There were a lot of good times. Why do you look at the black part? Well, that, because I didn't see that time that things were, were worked. Well, not, I mean, maybe when I was very young. You mean you had no remember any We had no happiness Bill? I didn't say none. I mean, but you just said you never saw the times when we did a period. I mean, when it appeared, when I'd say things were, you know, just generally, oh, you have a short memory bill. I'm sorry to say that I, we used to go up to Lake Erie.

7 (28m 49s):
We had a lot of good times. You, I'm not saying we didn't, but Bill, are you saying that we there's no, you trying I'm not saying that. I just, what's the bottom line? Let's get down to it. This is a lot of conversation. Let, tell me what your attitude is. Are you advocating that We don't try, I'm just, I'm just taking No, I want to know.

7 (29m 35s):
Why do you take so long to answer?

8 (29m 40s):
Kind of like say something like, you know, just don't sit there. I was less confrontational than I, than I remember or expected. But I, I could remember that, that thought process that I went through. If I say X, he's gonna blow up. If I say YI am gonna throw my mom under the bus.

7 (30m 5s):
I just, I I know what mothers, at least from what she tells me, she's, this has been something that she's obviously been thinking about a long time. Not, not a long time. Maybe four or five years. Bill, do you know what that her mind might be affected and she may not be herself psychologically, like four or five years.

2 (30m 27s):
Bill,

7 (30m 28s):
Do you realize that her mind might be affected? She may not be herself psychologically, but for that long of time Yes. Do you, would you like to see it, see us happy if we can arrange to be together? Sure. Why don't you say that?

8 (30m 51s):
Where was, you know, the warrior in me? Where was the standup person that was willing to call a lie? A lie, you know, willing to draw bright lines and say, I'm not wi I'm not, I won't even put up with a con, you know, having a conversation about this.

1 (31m 10s):
And some of these conversations go on so long, I mean, 45 minutes an hour and he's just hammering away at you and Right. And at the points he's making. Why did you stay on such a long time? Why, why not just say, you know, dad, I gotta go.

8 (31m 27s):
Yeah, no, I, I, I mean, I was so, I was living in Wisconsin during a lot of this taping. I felt badly that my mom was back there, basically by herself dealing with him. And, and I think I had some notion that by staying on the phone with him, you know, it's like a little bit of the rodeo clown, you know, the old rodeo clowns would be sent out. The, the cowboy would be bucked off the bull to distract. And those rodeo clowns, the bull would go out to distract the bull.

1 (32m 2s):
Bill wasn't crushed by the difference between what he heard on the tapes and the tough line he'd remembered taking with his dad. But it did throw him off balance. He really had seen himself from the time he was a kid as a warrior standing up to the strong, protecting the weak, a sort of superhero when it came to arguing against his dad.

8 (32m 22s):
But I was less heroic. It was like I was more pragmatic. It was less of an epic struggle of right and wrong and more mundane than that.

1 (32m 34s):
I mean, what kid fantasizes about being a pragmatist? Right? Bill says his mother thrived after the divorce. His father, he says, stayed more or less the same. He married again, divorced again. Bill kept up a relationship with him his whole life. That had been his other goal during these calls. Besides protecting his mom, not losing his dad. He had thought about that even during the worst arguments, better along silence than words he couldn't take back. Bill saw his father once or twice a year every year after the divorce.

1 (33m 18s):
And he spoke to him by phone every few weeks until he died.

7 (33m 22s):
I'll call you back soon. You could call me in the evening. Your number's the same. Sure. Chat all. Okay. So I'll, I'll I will talk to you soon. Okay. I'm glad you called. Yeah. Take care. Okay, then

1 (34m 12s):
Coming up, what the movie The Breakfast Club can teach you about parenting. If. you were in The. Breakfast Club. That's in a minute. From Chicago Public Radio. When our program continues,

travelalaska.com (34m 26s):
It's been called A Land of Contrasts. A world of extremes. Expansive yet intimate, simple in its purity, rich in its traditions, inspiring, captivating, unforgettable. It's a place that will become a part of you, a place also known as Alaska. Plan your trip@travelalaska.com.

BetterHelp (34m 53s):
Support for This American. Life comes from BetterHelp online therapy. The winter season can be a lot. Therapy can be a bright spot amid the holiday stress, the seasonal depression, or whatever you might be experiencing. It's something to look forward to, to make you feel grounded and give you the tools to manage everything going on. Find your bright spot this season with BetterHelp. Visit BetterHelp dot com slash t today to get 10% off your first month. That's BetterHelp dot com slash t.

1 (35m 27s):
It's This American Life. I'm Nancy Updike sitting in for Ira glass. Every week we choose a theme, you know that and we present various stories on that theme. Today's show, Is That, What I, Look Like stories of seeing yourself through other people's eyes, whether you want to or not. And we're here at Act Three, which I think is gonna be kind of a two-parter. Act Three Ben. Do you wanna do that part? Sure.

11 (35m 51s):
Act Three the blunder years.

1 (35m 53s):
I'm talking to Ben Calhoun, one of the producers here, and he's got a small story. He's embarrassed to tell it, but I'm making him so Ben. Yeah, take us back.

11 (36m 3s):
It's eighth grade. Eighth grade. And, and I should just say like, I played tuba. I was small. That was me. And definitely like zero attention from the girls in Roosevelt Middle School. I had this teacher though, who, her name was Ms. Savage. She was the cool teacher. I bet. Yeah. She was younger than like, pretty much every teacher in the school. She was like into Jane's Addiction and she was like the, the the rock and roll teacher and all of the kids sort of like idolized her. Okay.

1 (36m 41s):
And we are going in AGPG direction with this, right? Just checking.

11 (36m 45s):
Yeah. Okay. Yeah, continue. So there was just this one day when I'm just like standing in the classroom and there was like, there was like a, a crowd of girls that were standing around Ms. Savage. And, and I don't, I have no idea what they were talking about. And Ms. Savage is like saying something. And then out of the blue, she says, and then she like points to me, like I'm standing in the other side of the room and she says, look out for that Ben Calhoun, he's gonna be a heartbreaker.

1 (37m 19s):
And did the girls turn and look?

11 (37m 22s):
It was like a crowd of faces pivoted, like satellites and like looked at me and I was just like, I don't, don don't totally know what happened, but, but it feels like maybe my life might have changed just right then.

1 (37m 37s):
And

11 (37m 38s):
You mean like what? Like the,

1 (37m 39s):
Did it change? Yeah, yeah. Did the girls kinda start to notice

11 (37m 43s):
One girl in particular?

1 (37m 44s):
That's what you need.

11 (37m 46s):
Yeah.

1 (37m 52s):
And that really can be all you need to change your life when you're a teenager. Just one person who thinks you're great because chances are your own sense of yourself is way off. A friend of a friend, this is a woman in her fifties, came across an old photo of herself as a teenager. And it had been years since she'd seen any pictures of herself at that age. And she looked at them and thought, oh wait, I was pretty, I was pretty, it kind of floored her because of course the girl in the pictures looked nothing like the way she'd thought of herself at the time. She said she wished she'd known it back then. It would've made a difference. Lots of us have had that experience looking at old family pictures or yearbooks, seeing things we never saw at the time.

1 (38m 34s):
This next story is a very specialized case of that kind of thing. It's about the actress, Molly Ringwald who of course doesn't just have photos, but movies. Beautifully shot, wide screen, full length Hollywood films of herself as a teenager. She's the redhead, the star. Those three iconic eighties movies by John Hughes. Pretty and Pink 16 Candles and The Breakfast Club. Recently she revisited one of those movies, not exactly by choice, and she talked to Ira Glass. Here's Ira.

12 (39m 8s):
I suppose it's not a big surprise that Molly Ringwald does not sit around watching old Molly Ringwald films. You know, she's seen them, she needs a big reason to go back to them. And recently her daughter gave her a reason. Her daughter Matilda is 10. And Matilda wanted to see The Breakfast Club Course 10 is a little young to see The Breakfast Club. But most of her friends had seen it.

13 (39m 31s):
So it was kind of weird that she was the only one that hadn't seen this movie. And she said that it was a conversation at slumber parties where that's a movie that some kids wanna watch. And that she had always said, please, like, don don't wanna watch it. Can we watch something else? Because she wanted to watch it with me, which I thought was really nice.

12 (39m 52s):
I wonder if it's, if it's like she wants to watch it with you, like that's a nice thing to say to your mom, but, but the the truth could also be she just doesn't wanna watch it with them. Yeah. Do you know what I mean? Like, can you imagine like watching your mom with a group of your friends? Yeah. Like you and you have no idea what's about to happen. Yeah.

13 (40m 13s):
I didn't even really think about that, but yeah, I'm sure that had something to do with it. Matilda does not like surprises.

12 (40m 21s):
And the fact is, Molly Ringwald preferred to watch it with Matilda. It just seemed like it might be a nice experience to share together. And there were things in the film that she knew that she was gonna want to talk to Matilda about. Like for instance, there's a scene where she smokes pot in the film as a teenager. So Molly showed her The Breakfast Club, not sure at all how she was gonna react. Not sure what it would be like to see the film through Matilda's eyes. We sent her a tape recorder to record what happened. Hello. Which by the way, Matilda loved the tape recorder. Hello. So she loved talking into the tape recorder. She loved answering questions, though she is not gonna hear this radio story for a long time.

12 (41m 1s):
That's the plan. The Breakfast Club, if you've never seen it, is five kids. They're stuck together in school on a Saturday for all day detention. There are kids who never would normally talk to each other in school. It's a jock, a brain, a tough kid, a popular girl, and an outsider girl. And you know, it's a John Hughes movie. They bond talking about all these things that everybody feels in high school. And you can totally see why it still gets to kids and why it's the John Hughes film that Molly Ringwald looks back on as her favorite. So she Matilda they make popcorn, they futz around with the TV and you know, stars are just like us. They do not know how to operate their video systems either.

12 (41m 43s):
They cannot figure out how to turn it on. And is it DVD or h dm? IHDM

13 (41m 49s):
One

14 (41m 51s):
HMII

13 (41m 53s):
Mean, it it sounds really silly. I mean it's, it's like, it was almost like a date, you know, like where you just, you just want everything to go. Okay. Yeah. You know, I didn't want her to, I didn't want her to not like it, you know, I, I didn't want her to get bored. It's

15 (42m 11s):
Okay. Okay. It's fun to talk to. Ah, you oh my God. It's you.

12 (42m 18s):
Was there any point during the film where you had second thoughts about, about watching it with her? You

13 (42m 22s):
Press play the the sex stuff? I was, I was a little, I was cringing a little bit. Oh,

16 (42m 28s):
Are you medically frigid or is it psychological?

13 (42m 31s):
I didn't mean it that way. You guys are putting words into my mouth. Well, If, you know, there's a whole part where everyone's saying, did you do it? Did you do it?

17 (42m 39s):
Why don't you just answer the question, be honest, no big deal. Yeah. Answer it. Answer the question, Claire, talk to us. Come on that question.

13 (42m 46s):
So then I'm thinking she's gonna ask me what are they talking about? But then she just didn't ask. It was, she was not all of that stuff. She just didn't want to know. And so I was trying to sort of ask her what she got out of that, what she thought we were talking about, but trying to ask her in such a way where I wouldn't tell her, where I wouldn't end up talking about sex if she didn't know. So all, all the talk about like, did she do it, did she not do it? All of that stuff. Kind of

15 (43m 18s):
What

14 (43m 19s):
The, the what? The what part?

13 (43m 21s):
Oh. And there were like, did did you do it? Did you do it, Claire? Just answer the question. Answer the question. Oh yeah, I got that.

14 (43m 28s):
Wait, which part? There were what?

13 (43m 31s):
And my husband's sitting there looking at me. Just stop. Stop. She doesn't get it.

12 (43m 38s):
So this is the first time that you saw the film As a parent, did you see it differently?

13 (43m 45s):
Absolutely. I, I really did. I like, I really kind of felt for the parents,

12 (43m 50s):
For people who haven't seen The, Breakfast, Club, a lot of it is about the kids being disappointed in the parents.

13 (43m 55s):
Yeah. And how alone and isolated and frustrated you feel with your parents. And now I see the movie and I just, I think, oh, they're poor parents. And I, and I think that when it was pointed out to me that, that the movie just talks about how all parents suck, you know, then I thought in my mind, well actually, that that might be kind of good because then she can see that, that she doesn't have parents like that. And then she can, you know, appreciate us and

12 (44m 28s):
You know, but that can go another way.

13 (44m 30s):
Yeah. That was my focus, I guess.

12 (44m 34s):
Okay. So afterwards, you're talking to her about the film and there's this moment that gets surprisingly emotional. And let me play you that

13 (44m 42s):
Which character, when, when the characters talk and you think like, oh, that's what I feel like, are there any that you say like, yeah, that's like what I feel like

14 (44m 52s):
Guess a little bit of like, is he like Brian or something?

13 (44m 57s):
Yeah,

14 (44m 59s):
Yeah.

12 (44m 59s):
Brian, I should say is the straight A student whose parents pressure him to get good grades played by Anthony Michael Hall.

13 (45m 6s):
You kind of feel like Brian, you

14 (45m 8s):
Do

13 (45m 9s):
Kind of, he's really sweet, isn't

14 (45m 11s):
He? I know, but you kind of like sometimes pressure me in school.

13 (45m 16s):
Wait, you think I I pressure you?

14 (45m 18s):
No, barely. Like,

13 (45m 21s):
Wow. Really? No, not anymore. No. Wait, wait, wait. No, no, no. Tell me, tell me. Oh, hey, hey. No, it's okay. No, no, no, sweetie. It's okay. It's

14 (45m 44s):
Okay.

13 (45m 45s):
I'm, I'm just, I'm just surprised.

14 (45m 50s):
But I told you barely,

13 (45m 52s):
Like, just, just barely like a little bit. Yeah. Okay. Well, you know what? That's really good for me to know. I had no idea. Like, when did I make you feel like that? Well,

14 (46m 5s):
You kept on saying like, I wish I did better in school.

13 (46m 9s):
Oh. Because I, I said that I wish I did better in school.

14 (46m 12s):
So yeah. So, and like, you wanted me to do good.

13 (46m 18s):
Oh, I'm sorry I made you feel that way, but

14 (46m 21s):
You don't anymore.

12 (46m 24s):
Do you remember the things she's talking about of you saying to her like, oh, I wish that I had done better in school.

13 (46m 31s):
I was really surprised. I was not expecting that at all. And the only thing that I can think of really is we have this homework battle and it's incredibly frustrating and

12 (46m 48s):
It's frustrating to get her to do the work.

13 (46m 50s):
It's, yeah, because it's really easy. I mean, and I'm not just saying that, you know, as an adult, I mean, it's easy. She could, it's

12 (46m 57s):
Easy work for her.

13 (46m 58s):
It's easy work for her. If she would just sit down, do it, it would, it would take 15 minutes, 20 minutes. But she resents the fact that she has to do it so much and it, it became such a battle that she would sort of lie sprawled out, you know, kind of barely write. You couldn't even read her writing. And I would just get so frustrated with her and, you know, and I would yell at her and say, you know, you can do better than this. You're smarter than this. You know, all the things that parents say. And I think it, it, it must've affected her. And then she said, well, you, you know, you don't do it anymore. You know? And the reason why I don't do anymore is because I don't do her homework with her anymore because I can't, I find it too frustrating.

12 (47m 42s):
Oh, when she said that, I thought like, oh, she's just being protective of you. You know?

13 (47m 45s):
I think she was being protective of me too. I think the thing that I noticed the most was Matilda kind of wanting to make me feel okay, she really did not want to hurt my feelings or make me upset. And she wants to please me too. I can hear that when I Yeah,

12 (48m 14s):
Well, the fact that the next thing that happens, she instantly goes to, I have better parents than they do.

13 (48m 21s):
I know. Like, it's scripted. I know. So is there anything else that you got out of the movie that you

14 (48m 30s):
I like what? Well, I better parents than them.

13 (48m 35s):
You're just, you're just saying that to make me feel better. Come on. I mean, it was bizarre how she just said the thing that I hoped she would get outta it. She knows. I mean, she could intuit that she knew that it, that, that I was hoping for that. Yeah. She was like giving me a little present wrapped in a bow,

12 (48m 56s):
But at a moment where it doesn't feel like that at all. No,

13 (48m 59s):
No, not at all.

12 (49m 1s):
The whole thing after wondering a lot about what happened when Matilda cried and how she handled it, and should she have let Matilda talk for longer and should she have asked her more questions or different questions, you know, you just can never know what things that you say to your kids are going to stay with them. And, you know, just little things said in a passing moment that are gonna bounce around in their heads and lead them to conclusions that you don't intend or expect in any way.

13 (49m 25s):
Yeah. I think there's always moments where you, you perceive things differently. I I, I know it with my own mom and dad. I mean, you know, there, there are times where I'll tell a story that I've heard a million times over the years, you know, and, and my mom will just completely switch it up or she'll, she'll see it completely differently. And what's

12 (49m 54s):
That story from your childhood? Like, you're telling this story about like, something they did or how Yeah. Yeah. And they're just like, no, no, no.

13 (50m 0s):
Well, yeah, I mean, there, there, there's one. You know, I, I come from a family where my sister was sort of designated as the great beauty in the family. And this was just like known my sister. I was the talented one. My brother was the smart one, and my sister was the beautiful one. And, and I remember actually asking my mom at, you know, I must have been around Matilda's age, you know, if she thought that I was pretty. And she said, you're cute. And

12 (50m 32s):
Ooh. Yeah.

13 (50m 34s):
And that is really not what you want to hear when you're 10. You're, I mean, now it's okay. I would, I I would be okay with cute, but you know, when, when you're 10, it was just devastating. And, and she completely denies that now. And I mean, something that would have such a, an impact on me. I mean, I just, I wasn't making it up. It, it really affected me. And

12 (51m 1s):
She just says it didn't happen.

13 (51m 3s):
She says, I Oh, I always knew that you were beautiful, you know, ask your father.

12 (51m 8s):
And obviously like if she had any idea how it would bounce around in your head, she would have never said it too. She didn't think like, oh, that's gonna stick.

13 (51m 17s):
No, I, I don't think that she did.

12 (51m 20s):
I have a friend, her mom would tell her and her sister, no, you girls are average.

13 (51m 27s):
Oh,

12 (51m 28s):
No, no. Like you, you guys are, you girls are average. Average. You know, like you, you know, you're smart, but you're average smart. And I was like, wow, you were not raised by Jews, man. That is not the message you get. I mean, in my experience there's a lot of like, you're so special. You're the most special. You're so special. Yeah. You know, like the boys and the girls. Yeah. You know, like, like she's the most talented.

13 (51m 50s):
Well, I was always told that I was special. I mean, there, there was no question that I was special and that I was destined for, for greatness as

12 (52m 0s):
A little kid.

13 (52m 1s):
As a little kid. Wow. From the time that I was, you know, really little. I mean, to the point where this is kind of heavy, but I'll tell you anyway, my first brother died. He was, he was the first, and I was the last. So we, we never met, but my mom was, you know, understandably just devastated by this and was sort of suicidal for a while. I mean, didn't actually try anything, but she was considering and then was this makes her sound so hippie dippy, and she's not at all, but she believes that she conversed with a spirit and, and what they said basically, and, and, and this is a story that I've heard since I was very small, that she was here for another reason, for, for someone else.

13 (53m 2s):
And as soon as I was born, she knew that it was me.

12 (53m 8s):
That's a lot to put on you. Yeah.

13 (53m 10s):
It's heavy. It's

12 (53m 12s):
Really like she told you that when you were a little girl. Yeah. Like that she was put on this earth Yeah. Because of you.

13 (53m 18s):
She believed that, that that was why. Yeah. I mean because she, she knew that there was, there was some reason why she was supposed to stick around and, and,

12 (53m 30s):
And stay alive. Yeah. And it was to have this little girl who was you? Yeah. Who was such a special gift to the world. Yeah. So how strange that you would end up famous by the age of 15 or something.

13 (53m 41s):
Well, I kind of had to. I mean, I kept my mom alive.

12 (53m 46s):
And so then when you actually did become a movie star as a teenager, did she take that as proof? Like, oh see, that was all true. Yeah. And did you at the time, like, did the whole story fit together for you too?

13 (53m 60s):
Yeah, I had to succeed. I had to be great.

12 (54m 9s):
What a lot of pressure on you.

13 (54m 12s):
I know. And then what do I do? I turn around and I pressure my daughter. 'cause I think she's so great. I know. Yeah.

1 (54m 21s):
Ira J Glass with Molly Ringwald. She's still acting and translating and she's working on a new book about her Paris years. And Matilda, she's in college now and just finished filming her first movie.

1 (55m 3s):
Our program was produced today by Jonathan Var, with Alex Bloomberg, Ben Calhoun, Sean Cole, Stephanie Fu, Hannah Jaffe, Walt Sarah Kig, Brian Reed, Robin Simeon, Alyssa Ship, and Ira Glass. Our senior Producer for this show was Julie Snyder, production help from Simon Adler and Lily Sullivan. Additional production help on today's rerun from James Bennett ii, Michael Comte, Catherine Ray, Mondo, STO Nissen and Matt Tierney. Our website, This American Life dot org where you can stream over 800 of our episodes for absolutely free. Thanks as always. To our program's co-founder Tori Malatia, and to our boss, Mr.

1 (55m 44s):
Ira Glass. While he was hosting the show recently, he spent a little time moonlighting as a realtor. He's really gotta work in his pitch. Look

12 (55m 52s):
At that really

1 (55m 53s):
Small house over there. I'm Nancy Updike. Ira Glass will be back with more stories of This American Life.

12 (56m 29s):
Next week on the podcast of This American Life. In Madison's middle school, like at so many schools in this era of lockdown drills, there are signs that read, see something, say something. And one day Madison thought she overheard something that might be worth reporting, should talk to friends. Told her mom, by the way, her school reacted

19 (56m 47s):
Like my job physically dropped.

12 (56m 50s):
Adults who aren't doing what you hope adults would do. Next week on the podcast, on your local public radio station.