0 (0s):
Support for This American. Life comes from Squarespace. Squarespace is the all in one website platform for entrepreneurs to stand out and succeed online. Whether you're just starting out or managing a growing brand, Squarespace makes it easy to create a beautiful website, engage with your audience, and sell anything from products to content, to time all in one place, all in your terms. Head to Squarespace dot com for a free trial, and when you're ready to launch, go to Squarespace dot com slash American to save 10% off your first purchase of a website or domain. That's Squarespace dot com slash American.

1 (35s):
When I talked to Charlotte Holdman, she'd spent 35 years working with defense teams on death penalty cases, and Cody's have very high profile cases, but she hadn't given an interview to the press in Decades ever since. An incident where she had a few drinks with a reporter and said some things she was unhappy to see in print.

2 (50s):
It was so embarrassing. And I thought, well, I either have to quit drinking or quit doing interviews. And I wasn't ready to quit drinking yet, so I quit doing interviews. So this interview is a very rare event for me. I haven't done any kind of interviews with the media since 85,

1 (1m 7s):
And you are ending the moratorium in this one instance for this story. Why?

2 (1m 16s):
Well, a fluffy red combed leghorn deserves his moment in the sun. I mean, just the image and And. I'm not talking about any chicken. I'm talking about, you can just picture this, you know, beautiful leg horn. His tail perked up and that red comb sitting at kind of a rakish angle on his head and his head kind of cocked to the side, and he looks at you with his little eyes. That's what this story is about.

1 (1m 55s):
That is not just what this story is about. That is what a lot of today's radio show is about. Back in the early days of our radio show once a year during the highest Poultry consumption time in the country, which is of course, if you think about this for a second, you can guess the answer to this. It's the weeks that begin with Thanksgiving and go through Christmas and New Year's. I mean, during that period, for years on our show, we had a tradition here. We would devote an entire hour of our program to stories of chickens, turkeys, ducks, fowl of all kind, and an homage to Chicago's poetry slams, which was spread across the country, but were created at the Green Mill Bar on the north side by poet Mark Smith. We named these programs Poultry Slams Poultry. But I just wanna be clear before we begin the word Slam, we are using that with no malice toward any bird of any kind at all.

1 (2m 40s):
No birds were hurt, no birds were slaughtered, no birds were slammed in the making of today's program. And we have incredible stories today. Incredible enough that at least one woman has ended a quarter century moratorium on talking to the press to be here with me. And you should too. From WB, e z Chicago. It's This American Life. I'm Eric Glass. Stay with us Qua witness for the tion. So Charlotte Holdman didn't just get the idea of calling a chicken as a witness in a murder case outta the blue.

1 (3m 21s):
She was working on this case, and we're gonna call this guy Harry. And there was no question that the guy had killed somebody. This wasn't about whether he'd done it, it was just about what sentence he would get. He had sat on death row at San Quentin for 10 years, but Charlie says he was schizophrenic with an IQ of 58 and just out of touch with reality.

2 (3m 39s):
And one of the things he did, he wrote messages and symbols on little pieces of toilet paper and rolled them up in a ball and had done this for years on death row, wrote their little secret messages up in a ball and then rolled them in feces, his own feces, and then to little tiny bead sized balls and put those into the braids in his hair. Oh my. So that they dangled around his forehead

1 (4m 7s):
And, and, and the things he was putting in his hair. And, and from his point of view, they were they communicating some information, the little messages.

2 (4m 15s):
Exactly, but he couldn't tell me what the messages were because they were secret. When I would talk to him about his mother, he would tell me she lived in a Coca-Cola can,

1 (4m 27s):
It's against the law to execute somebody who is so crazy. He doesn't understand why he's being executed. And she said, that was true for this guy.

2 (4m 34s):
When I would say, do you know what's gonna happen on the 12th of June? He was kind of befuddled and with pressure, he would finally say, well, yeah, he thought he was going to be reupholstered.

1 (4m 48s):
The state of California did not agree with Charlotte about this guy. They wanted to execute him In 30 days. Charlotte's team was making a last ditch appeal to stay this execution. Meanwhile, the state was gathering its evidence.

2 (5m 1s):
San Quentin sent in a prison psychiatrist to determine was he competent to be executed? Did he know he was gonna be executed, and did he know why he was gonna be executed? So the psychiatrist goes and interviews Harry. And then the psychiatrist testified in court that not only was Harry aware that he was gonna be executed, she was so certain of this because she had played tic-tac-toe with him, and Harry had beat her. Well, it was so absurd and, and so outside of any of normal experience in a courtroom, and this is after, you know, 30 years of being in death penalty cases in the south around the world.

2 (5m 52s):
And you know, I really couldn't believe she had said it. But at the same time, the only image that came to me, I'm from the south, obviously, and growing up, we always went to the Mid-South Fair, and they had a chicken that played tic tac toe that absolutely mesmerized me. And it was pretty clear to me, okay, we've got to find a chicken who can play tic-tac toe.

1 (6m 23s):
So I thought, and this is not a joke, it's not an exaggeration. She thought that a chicken like that could save this man's life. Jurors, after all, tend to believe the state and it's Witnesses. And a chicken like that could totally undermine the psychiatrist's testimony by proving that playing tic-tac-toe doesn't mean that you understand things like why you're being executed.

2 (6m 44s):
I just knew a chicken would work. It's a sad state, but I think a chicken has more credibility than the defense team did. And I, And I think it would've brought the jury over to seeing us as people rather than as these obstructionists who were interfering with an execution. And who can doubt a chicken? I mean, you can't, you know, chickens aren't gonna lie. Chickens have integrity. I had this image of, of the psychiatrist being on the stand, And I would quietly enter through the wooden doors as they opened with this beautiful leghorn under my arm, right?

2 (7m 33s):
And the comb at a rakish angle. And as I walked into the courtroom, not saying a word and quietly took a seat on the front row, the psychiatrist who we knew because we'd investigated her background, was from New York City, would see a person with a chicken and think, why is that? Oh my god. No. And that psychiatrist would slowly realize that she was going to have to play tic-tac-toe with a chicken.

1 (8m 3s):
So you're trying to psych out, you're trying to get inside the psychiatrist's head. Exactly, exactly. And make the psychiatrist unravel even before you pull your stomach. The

2 (8m 10s):
Jury's eyes as awareness overcame her. So it couldn't, it wouldn't work with a frazzled chicken. You know, I didn't want a splotchy beat up, tired, exhausted chicken. I wanted a chicken that could capture the audience's attention. In this case, the audience was the jury, right?

1 (8m 27s):
You need a, you needed a, a chicken like in a cartoon.

2 (8m 30s):
Look, I had to have a chicken that could take on a psychiatrist. You know, it had to be a standup chicken

1 (8m 37s):
Noted.

2 (8m 38s):
So we began to hnk for this standup chicken.

1 (8m 46s):
Well, this test fell to the illegal interns. A man was scheduled to die at that point in less than two weeks, and they needed a chicken. And they searched the places that you find tic-tac toe playing chickens, namely county fairs, carnivals. And really within hours, they found a tic-tac-toe playing goose in Montana. But. of course, Charlotte says that was totally unacceptable.

2 (9m 7s):
I mean, goose are nasty, you know, they bite you. They're, they're not, I don't anyone goose running around the courtroom chasing someone.

1 (9m 14s):
Next was a guy at a roadside stand in Wyoming who did have a chicken, and it did play tic-tac-toe. But he said that flying or driving it to California for the trial would probably upset it so much that he could not guarantee that it would win the game of tic-tac-toe. So he was out. Finally, they found a fella in Arkansas who trains chickens to play tic-tac-toe. And he had a whole list of chickens that he had trained around the country, and he sent the legal team to one of those birds in San Francisco that turned out to be a dead end. San Francisco had actually passed an ordinance banning the playing of tic-tac-toe by chickens, his animal cruelty. Fortunately, another chicken on the list was not far from there at the boardwalk at Santa Cruz, they had their chicken.

2 (9m 60s):
So the next step was to convince the court to let us bring the chicken to court as a witness, as demonstrative evidence to introduce the chicken and let the chicken play tic-tac-toe. Now, of course, I wanted the chicken to play tic-tac-toe with the psychiatrist, but I realized, you know, yeah, that most likely no one was gonna let us get away with that. But I did think that any of us, you know, a really healthy group of interns, they knew how to play tic-tac-toe so that we could demonstrate to the jury that playing tic-tac-toe did not mean that you were aware of your con the consequences of your actions.

1 (10m 42s):
Why wouldn't, why wouldn't you be allowed to make the psychiatrist play tic-tac-toe with the chicken? Like I understand why the psychiatrist would not want to do it, but from a legal point of view, like, what, what line does that cross?

2 (10m 55s):
Well, evidently, I agree with you, but the court failed. It never addressed the issue of having to play the, the, the psychiatrist. But the court felt that bringing the chicken into the courtroom to play tic-tac-toe would degrade the Dignity of the court. I thought that the Dignity of the court was degraded by executing a mentally ill person. So the court denied our motion and said we could not bring the chicken into the courtroom for demonstrative evidence. It ruled against us.

1 (11m 34s):
They weren't even allowed to show the jury a video of the chicken playing tic-tac-toe. And without a chicken on the stand without a video of a chicken, the jury found the psychiatrist credible and ruled to execute Charlotte's client. His life was saved later on appeal. And in the years since then, in 2002, the Supreme Court ruled that a person at his level of mental retardation cannot be executed for Charlotte. Though the story stays with her, the story of the chicken, because in Decades of doing these capital trials, bringing hundreds of Witnesses, it is the greatest court remove she ever invented bringing in the chicken and she never got to try it. You know, she invented this thing, she never got to try it.

1 (12m 15s):
It was snatched away from her. Something like that sticks in your craw.

2 (12m 20s):
Well, yeah, because I didn't get to do it. But it's also because of the nature and quality of a chicken. When you do this kind of work, you know, when you're down in the worst part, when you're trying to work for folks that literally the community wants to kill, it can be pretty discouraging. But you know, this nice fluffy leg horn brightens up your day and you forge on. And not all of this, all of this is not to, you know, make light of death as punishment of people with mental retardation of people who are mentally ill or if chickens, thank you for for saying that.

2 (13m 8s):
Yeah, no, it's really not. I, I actually am a member of PETA

3 (13m 22s):
Charlotte

1 (13m 23s):
Holdman in New Orleans. Today's show is a rerun. We first broadcast this story back in 2011, in the years since capital punishment was suspended in the state of California by governor Gavin Newsom Charlotte, this incredible person that I loved talking to. She was called the Angel of Death row for her work in getting proper legal representation for people on death row. She died in 2017. Act Two Chicken Diva Chickens are what we make of them in lots of ways. If you could possibly need further evidence of that after that first act, we have this story from Jack hit.

4 (14m 4s):
Oddly enough, it wasn't Susan who was obsessed with chickens. It was Kenny, a pal who worked backstage at the 92nd Street Y in New York. His house was filled with chicken cups, chicken masks. He got the whole staff onto chickens, including Susan for a time there in the eighties. Poultry related jokes and references became the fast way to get a laugh at the why. I guess most of us are condemned to see nothing more than the easy comedy of chickens, but Susan Ucci saw something else, their potential greatness, their hidden beauty, their grandeur. One day she glued together some finger puppets for a 10 minute rendition of the Chicken Little Story for her nephew. That was 14 years ago.

4 (14m 45s):
Today it is a full length opera enjoyed by a cult following. Whenever it goes up in a workshop or cafe or small theater, it still performed with finger puppets, but now it has a complete score written by a noted composer, Henry Krieger, who did Dreamgirls the Chicken Little Opera he wrote with Susan Tucci is called Love's Fowl. Needless to say, that's FOWL.

5 (15m 9s):
Well, we were gonna start with the opening Smo del Tro Reper de Malte. We are the closed Pin Repertory theater, and we have a special singing guest for you, which I don't know if we,

4 (15m 22s):
Susan And I are sitting at Henry's baby grand piano. Henry's guest is his Maltese terrier named Toby.

5 (15m 28s):
Perhaps Toby would be kind enough to,

4 (15m 30s):
Do you want Yeah, would you sit on your

5 (15m 32s):
Lap for this at the piano? Yeah, let's see what we can do. Okay.

4 (15m 36s):
Okay. Listen carefully, because once Toby gets going, he actually harmonizes with Henry and Susan. You may have noticed that this libretto is an Italian, just like a real opera.

7 (16m 9s):
Before it was just a bunch of puppets in a box, you know, with a good idea. And then suddenly, as soon as it went into Italian, it became something bigger than what it had been. And it's because when it's in English, we all kind of know it, and it's really not that interesting. And it's like, yeah, yeah, yeah. As soon as it's in Italian, it gives us enough distance that we can come in. You know, it makes us, it's like the the lover who doesn't want you. You don't want anybody more than you want the one who doesn't want you, right? And so it's sort of the same thing.

4 (17m 9s):
You may recall that when you last heard of little back in kindergarten, she was just an average barn door fowl who had an acorn drop on her head, which she mistakenly understood to be the sky falling. Her alarms excited. Her friends goosey Lucy Turkey Lurky and Ducky lucky. And they join her for a journey to the king to tell him the important news on the way they meet up with sly fox. Little's pals eagerly accept his invitation for dinner, literally, as it turns out, fortunately for Little hunger is not enough to distract her from her mission. And she treks on, when she meets the king, he tells her that the sky is not falling, it's just an acorn. So the enlightened chicken little returns to her coop, and that's where the story ends.

4 (17m 52s):
What are we to take away from Little's experience? I'd like to think it's that little is rewarded with life precisely because she went off on this quixotic mission, totally in the grip of a wrong idea. The children's fable barely figures into the story. It's just one small episode in the life of chicken level, now known as Laina Ula. After the acorn incident, she goes on to become an internationally renowned figure in almost every field imaginable, a diva of politics, adeem, theater, art, daring do like Venus, she arrives from some of the world, transported on a scallop shell, but the triumphs of her life begin after a youthful love affair with a fighting cock ends bitterly, and she consoles herself as we all do.

4 (18m 50s):
At some point in her lives. By plunging into Shakespeare, she becomes an overnight sensation. As an actress celebrated all over the world for one role, Juliet, Cleopatra Ophelia,

7 (19m 2s):
The company then performs a, an excerpt of recreation of the her signature role, which was Richard iii. Well, you know, I mean, Sarah Bernhardt did Hamlet. Well, there's

4 (19m 18s):
A great tradition of women playing the men's roles in Shakespeare, but I think Richard is one of the rare, more rare roles to be played by a woman.

7 (19m 26s):
Well, that's how adventuresome an actress this chicken was.

4 (19m 35s):
I can assure you, there's nothing like watching a four inch tall finger puppet crying out a horse, a horse, my kingdom for a horse, an Italian. Not to mention that that puppet is a chicken surrounded by a whole supporting cast of Poultry and other avian supernumeraries. Susan says that artistically, there's something special about chickens. There

7 (19m 57s):
Are clean sleigh, there are, you can put anything on them, you can project anything onto them because it's not like they have, to me, at least, a very strong personality

4 (20m 8s):
Except for Laina in the opera, she moves into the field of archeology masters it needless to say, and makes a great discovery. The last tomb of gala, Patra, but not before she sails the seven seas, is shipwrecked gets rescued, but it's by pirates. And then she meets the pirate king

7 (20m 27s):
As, as soon as he meets her, he falls in love with her because of her sweet spirit. 'cause she comes in and she says, here you see a little chicken, who although I'm dripping wet, I'm proud and yellow,

4 (20m 41s):
Let me repeat that lyric for you in a pure translation, although I stand before you a chicken who is dripping wet, I am proud. And I am yellow. Okay, back to Susan.

7 (20m 54s):
And although I've loved And, I have lost, I have learned to follow the Call of adventure. So let's sail on.

4 (21m 19s):
Keep in mind that all of the action, like everything that occurs in every Susan Tucci production ever since the first one for her nephew, and continuing to this day occurs among characters created by sticking a small painted styrofoam ball onto a larger painted styrofoam ball, poking in two map tacks for eyes gluing on a tiny felt beak, and then impaling the whole thing on top of one of those really old fashioned clothespins that a forties cartoon figure would clamp to his nose around a chunk of Limburger cheese And I could go on.

4 (22m 15s):
Susan has written, or she puts, it translated Lapu Olas Diaries, which detail the other adventures that happen in between those in the opera. There are 60 pages so far, excerpts of which have appeared in Clotheslines. The official fan club newsletter of the opera Loves Fowl, has a strange effect on people. I didn't understand it until Susan loan me a videotape of one performance. To be honest, I thought I would be annoyed at the intentional irony and hokiness of the puppets. But there I was with my three-year-old daughter who loved the show, watching a plastic bird pantomime one of the simplest human moments, but also one of the most profound, the confession of a great love in this case with a cock robin.

7 (22m 59s):
The song that she sings as she enters, goes, I am a chicken and ready for love. My heart is as fragile as the egg from which I was born. Treat me gently and so will I treat you together from earthly love. We will reach for the divine. And then she sings, I'm a chicken And. I can't fly without love. My heart, my heart is as strong as the the egg from which I was born and so forth. And so it is only with cock robin that she flies,

4 (23m 54s):
And after they have agreed to fly together and they're soaring in the air, cock Robin is shot and killed. Murdered by a jealous sparrow. I couldn't believe it, but I was getting choked up, especially when cock Robin appeared on the stage, his styrofoam body spray painted black for the lament, his little magic marker, eyes drawn his exes. I gathered my daughter my arms and held on tight as I was helplessly drawn into an expression of the grief and suffering of this little sad bird. In this era of slick special effects, there was something unexpectedly liberating in the marriage of this crude medium painted styrofoam balls bobbing up and down behind a cardboard box and the high melodramatic art of Italian opera.

4 (24m 35s):
Picture it. I want a subscription to that newsletter. Are you gonna do this? I mean, are you gonna be working with Pul Chin P you think for the rest of your life?

7 (25m 20s):
It's possible And, I like working with her, because I get to go into a world that's that's inhabited by a very sweet spirit and play with that. The me mechanics of the world. And because it's very small, like I could never have afforded to produce this show with people, but I could afford to do it with clothespins. So I can do as big a production as I want with clothespins. I can have stuff fly in and out and come in from traps. And I can have all kinds of fancy, flashy stuff that costs millions of dollars to to do on Broadway. And you know, it cost me $200 because I had to buy lots and lots and lots of styrofoam and clothes pins and stuff and all this in a new table.

7 (26m 6s):
Maybe And I get to do whatever I want

1 (26m 33s):
That story from Jack hit Coming up, chicken Supermodels and Chickens Who Return with a message from the afterlife that's in a minute. From Chicago Bobba Radio when our program continues.

10 (26m 52s):
This podcast is supported by MasterCard, from small businesses to governments around the world. We are helping our partners do incredible things every day together. The possibilities are priceless. Learn more at mastercard.com/nextgen Solutions. Support for This. American Life comes from Mercy Corps. Mercy Corps is a global team of humanitarians, working to confront today's biggest crises, partnering with communities who know their needs best. 80% of team members are from the countries where they work. Visit mercy corps.org/donate to learn more and support lasting solutions in over 40 countries. That's Mercy. COR ps.org/donate to help forge a new path forward together.

1 (27m 39s):
This American Life Amer Goss. Each week in our program, of course we choose the theme, bring you a variety of different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's show, during this period of greatest Poultry consumption in our nation, the weeks between Thanksgiving and Christmas, we bring you stories of chickens, turkeys, ducks, fowl of all kind, real and imagined. We arrived at Act Three of our program, Act Three, trying to respect the chicken. Okay, sure. It's one thing to take a fictional character like Chicken Little and make her into a star. Try doing that with a real chicken. Seriously, just try.

11 (28m 13s):
Well, these are photographs of chickens. The first one here is a silver laced wine dot. It's a black and white bird, essentially, but the tail feathers have a lot of iridescent green coloring. In

1 (28m 31s):
A world where chickens get no respect, Tamara Staples treats 'em the way that humans treat those we revere most. She takes their portraits. Think of lovingly a chicken. Her shots are like fashion photographs. Beautifully lit color backdrops. No, that's the one. They're beautiful.

12 (28m 43s):
You know, that first one looked regal, but now you've just turned to one where, where it almost looks like it's like a clown. It looks, looks comic.

11 (28m 50s):
It's a modeled udan, which always sort of called like the Phyllis Diller chicken, which is, oh

12 (28m 57s):
My God, the chicken does look like Phyllis Diller.

11 (29m 0s):
It does. It's the hat. You know, it looks like it's got this huge feathered hat sort of thing, and a strange body shape. And like these in

1 (29m 9s):
A way, it's like Tamara Staples is running an odd little cross species science experiment. One that asked this question, sort of covering their eyes. What happens when you try to treat a chicken the way we treat humans, even if it's just for the length of a photo shoot, what happens it turns out is that you learn just what the thin line is that divides human beings from birds. All right, maybe it's not such a thin line, but it's definitely a line. And like most city people, I had never thought about it, about where it lays about what it might be, what it might consist of. Until Tamara And, I hit it out to a farm.

14 (29m 52s):
I think that is the best one.

11 (29m 53s):
Yeah, we gotta get him. Can we? We don't want him to get dirty or anything, do we? Or does it matter if he runs loose every day? Do he find her?

14 (29m 59s):
Yeah, we can figure

11 (30m 0s):
Out. We're gonna have to get 'em to, we're gonna have to wrangle them. You know,

1 (30m 4s):
We're at the Davidson's Dairy Farm about an hour and a half northwest of Chicago Family members present. Paul, who's helping Tamara choose a bird to photograph his sister Laura, who's studying photography at a nearby university. The grandfather, George Karens of veteran breeder, their father, Dick, who seems the most skeptical of this whole project, but who patiently shows Tamara and her assistant Dennis. The milking barn is a possible place to set up and shoot.

11 (30m 29s):
It's kind of an area you're looking for. Well, maybe, I mean, it needs could be a little wider, don't you think? If it could be from here to there. Yeah. And you know from like that pole to that pole. For what? Stand what? Well, we are, we are set background. Maybe this is a good time to pull out the portfolio. Okay, you want me to grab it? I'm actually, I mean it's a study of the birds, but it's an isolated study so it doesn't, people aren't necessarily associating it with the farm and something to eat.

1 (31m 2s):
Tamara takes us all outside the barn so dust won't get on her photos and shows them her shots name dropping the names of some big chicken people, people whose birds she's photographed, including Bob Wolf, editor of the Poultry Press. Dick notices that a bird in one photo has crooked toes.

14 (31m 19s):
Oh, probably on a hard surface. And they turn, yeah.

11 (31m 26s):
What do you guys think of

1 (31m 27s):
The, the

14 (31m 27s):
Pictures? Well, the pictures are nice and sharp. I mean, there's nothing wrong with the pictures. If there's anything to find fought with, it's the birds. You know, they aren't posing the way they should. Some of 'em

1 (31m 41s):
Fact is, most city people usually go nuts when they see Tamara's pictures. A lot of chicken breeders don't like 'em. And I understand why, to fully comprehend this little culture clash here in America. We have to leave the barnyard for a minute and flash back to something that happened back at Tamara's apartment in the city. Tamara showed me this old red book from the turn of the century. This book with the seal of the American Poultry Association in gold on the front and then right there in gold letters.

11 (32m 15s):
Standard of perfection. The standard of perfection is really the Bible of Poultry standards. You know what birds are?

1 (32m 24s):
Tam flip past the eng engravings and illustrations of chickens of all types and breeds. These were show chickens standing the way that chickens stand in competitions. Then Tamara pulled out one of her own photos to compare, to show me how her poses do not meet the standard in the book.

11 (32m 39s):
The tail needs to be higher. Her feet are not erect. You know, standing chest isn't out head needs to be up more. And it shows, I mean, you can see the shape of the chicken much better in the standard of profe perfection pose.

12 (32m 57s):
See, to me, what's so interesting though is that the standard of perfection doesn't include a personality,

11 (33m 1s):
Right? Because it's not about personality, it's about breeding.

12 (33m 7s):
And is so, is that, is that a post that the owners would wanna own a photo of?

11 (33m 13s):
They, they're very particular about the, they wanna see their bird in the standard of perfection pose. Definitely. 'cause that's what they've been taught from four H when they were kids to do.

1 (33m 26s):
That's for them, for herself, for city customers. She chooses the others. Okay, back to the barnyard. Tamara and the davidsons decide to set up the photo session in a room that's usually used to store feed for the cows. It takes about 45 minutes to set this up. That 45 minutes includes dismantling and moving a wall of hay that is probably 10 feet high and 15 feet long. This takes five people. Then comes the power and the fancy lights and the cloth backdrop that gets hung from a steel pole. The backdrop is ironed first with an iron and ironing board brought from the city just for that purpose.

1 (34m 6s):
I'm

11 (34m 7s):
Seeing it. 11 and a half. 11 and eight and a half. Yeah, 11

15 (34m 10s):
And a half. Your, your test is gonna be at 11 and a half. 11 and eight and a half. You're gonna shoot your film at 11.

1 (34m 16s):
It was cold, well below freezing. So cold at the Polaroid film that Tamara uses for lighting tests would not fully develop.

15 (34m 23s):
You ready for the bird? We're

11 (34m 24s):
Close. Just wanna commune with the bird. We just wanna make you pretty. Look how sweet aren't you? You know what? I'm gonna photograph you. My name is Tamara. I'll be your photographer for today.

1 (34m 37s):
Our first bird is a white Cornish, a show bird who belongs to George. the show bird is used to being picked up and handled. Part of preparing chickens for shows involves handling them a lot. So they'll be calm with the judges.

11 (34m 48s):
You can just nudge his head up a little bit. He's perfect. He's got his chest out. Okay's now he's got his face in. Okay. Yeah. You know what we want? Yeah, you're great. Georgie. He's got a feather on his on his back here.

1 (34m 60s):
Tamara has the Cornish stand up in a stack of little red antique books, kind of unsteady things go well for a while. She gets a half dozen good shots of the bird expressive shots. More personality than standard of perfection. George tells me the bird's chest isn't high enough. Its body is not turned correctly to the camera. Yeah. Get his head over and drop up the bird. Stops cooperating. He gets tired. Paul has a suggestion. Bring

15 (35m 22s):
In a poet

11 (35m 23s):
Here. You know what, you know that works.

12 (35m 27s):
Maybe she explain what that is. What, what does that mean to bring in a poet?

14 (35m 31s):
Maybe thinks maybe a female per perk 'em up.

1 (35m 37s):
Laura grabs a hen and waves it at the flacid cock. The cock does not rise. Come on.

11 (35m 42s):
He's like,

1 (35m 42s):
I'm just calling. I can say that on the radio right. Gloria

15 (35m 45s):
Pie would've been better to get the one from the other pen that he's not used to.

11 (35m 49s):
Fresh blood. That's nice. Bring him around a little bit. So his for for real,

12 (35m 55s):
The chicken, the, the, the rooster will, will show off more for a hand that it doesn't know.

15 (36m 0s):
Yes. Do you put a new hand in with him or him? And with a group of new hands he will really show off.

1 (36m 9s):
They try this and that. Nothing with much success. Finally, with one shot left, Paul suggests putting a hand into the picture with the rooster.

11 (36m 16s):
Get the girl to like, she looks like her feet are like so far apart. She's really struggling to stand stand

14 (36m 22s):
Though.

11 (36m 24s):
That's all right. That's alright. Ah, oh, did you see that? Yeah. All right. We got it. Why? What you just do describe, she looked up at him very sweetly like that with her, with her head cocked. The male bird was posing and she was posing also, but had a personality of just being like the sweet doting mother, you know?

12 (36m 44s):
But not, that's my standard of perfection,

11 (36m 47s):
But not standard of perfection. So we're done with this background and

1 (36m 53s):
Not standard of perfection. Even these perfectly bred cornishes could not achieve standard of perfection today. And even in this goofy un bird-like situation, an hour of watching them makes clear just how hard it is to ever get birds to hit the standard. Which is to say not only do we completely dominate every aspect of the lives of chickens, their births, their feed, their eggs, their slaughter. Not only have we bred them to human specifications to meet human needs, but we have created a standard of what it means to be a chicken that most chickens can never meet. That's what the standard means. We judge them as chickens and we find them mocking.

1 (37m 34s):
If they had the brains to understand this, they would be right to feel indignant But. of course, this is a city person's perspective and that means that it is completely wrongheaded from the point of view of anybody who actually raises birds standing in the cold feed room. I had a long, long talk with George about this. Well, George is 80 years old, has been raising birds since the, I guess the Calvin Coolidge administration. And he says the whole fun of raising birds is raising them to the standard. Well,

14 (38m 2s):
Like for instance, if you're birds, he hugging lack bone. Okay? You go out and buy a bird as near to like them as you can with better bone. Good example. But when you made 'em together, you, you might get long legged birds or too short or, I mean, you don't get what you want just by me. It takes four or five years to gradually get it up. And by that time they're inbreeding bread and you need new ones.

1 (38m 34s):
George tells me that when he is breeding a new batch of birds, he'll hatch 65 of them and only one or two will be anywhere near the standard of perfection. That's how hard it's,

12 (38m 43s):
Do you get frustrated with the standard of perfection sometimes?

14 (38m 46s):
No. We get frustrated with the judges because every judge has his own idea what the standard should be.

12 (38m 54s):
I thought that's the whole point of a standard is that the judge doesn't.

14 (38m 56s):
That is, but one judge will want it this way and another another. Today, if you bred your birds to the standard of perfection, wait and everything and took 'em to the show, you probably wouldn't get anywhere. You gotta breed to the fads.

1 (39m 15s):
That's right. So

12 (39m 16s):
Many crosses the fads

1 (39m 18s):
Like cornishes these days are supposed to have shorter legs than the real standard of perfection. Vertical tail feathers are out on all sorts of breeds that really should have them in the country. Among the chicken breeders. They think about a lot of things we never get to in the city.

12 (39m 34s):
And, and, and are there when you're raising these birds, like are with any of these birds, I mean, do you have a close relationship with a bird the way somebody would've with a pet?

14 (39m 44s):
I don't have time. Yeah, I've just, I got too many things to do. See, three years ago I almost died of cancer and good lord told me how to cure myself. And so I've been working with that a lot the last three years I've helped people and put it in papers. Now it's getting all over the United States. What did

12 (40m 9s):
You do?

14 (40m 9s):
What did you do? It's you used the root of a dandelion in there. Simple as can be, but there's something in that that fills up your blood and your immune system.

12 (40m 20s):
Wait a second. You're saying that you were diagnosed with cancer and this is the only treatment you had and it cured you? Yeah,

14 (40m 26s):
And I've given it to other people when the medical world has told 'em that there's nothing more they can do that they've got. Well too, but not all of 'em. If they're too far gone, it won't help 'em.

12 (40m 36s):
And, and you make it into tea or something like that?

14 (40m 40s):
Well, we just put it in little water, little milk, Kool-Aid. You can put it on a sandwich. Anything that isn't hot.

1 (40m 48s):
George gives me a pamphlet that he's written up. No doctor has actually checked him out to prove the cancer has gone from his body. He's actually got no hard scientific proof that this really works. But he says God told him that this is the way he should be spending his time. And it is cut into his bird breeding a bit. George leaves off another business. Tamara's finished hanging and lighting the next backdrop. And the rest of us begin with the second bird. A bird called a Brahma with elaborately patterned brown and white feathers

12 (41m 18s):
Got her. She is big. Yep. This is a chicken like the size of a dog. Not that big small dog.

1 (41m 30s):
Our second bird demonstrates the great distance between bird instinct and intelligence. Nice. And the demands of modern fashion photography, which is to say of civilization called upon to do human tasks, even rather passive ones. A bird remains a bird. Paul carries the huge hand onto the fragile little set. Tamara built

11 (41m 51s):
He beauty. What's eating there buddy? Woo ooh. He slapped me.

1 (41m 58s):
I'm scared of this. When she says quietly she adjusts her camera. The chicken is so big. Nine pounds the size of a small consumer Turkey that she has to pull the camera back. The Davidsons are looking at her sly. Paul asked pointedly if she's ever shot a bird this big.

11 (42m 13s):
We gotta figure out where the Hello bird. Are you gonna slap me in the face again? I hope

15 (42m 21s):
Not. Time to jump right in your face.

11 (42m 23s):
You know why you're here. Let's talk. We need you to be beautiful. Here's your moment. Okay. There are more where you came from buddy. You better act up here.

1 (42m 36s):
This combination of coddling and threats might motivate an aspiring supermodel or an eager puppy. But this, after all is a chicken or tries to war it up with a handful of corn. She

15 (42m 47s):
Corn where she's trying to get it, but she has to stand up high for

11 (42m 50s):
It. Is that where you want him to stand?

1 (42m 52s):
Somewhere during this ordeal, a funny thing happens. All the davidon, you all started off skeptical. They are completely engaged. Dick suggest opposed. That is pure art concept. Opposed? That could not be further from standard of perfection. Wheres the bird with corn? Paul smooths feathers. And when the bird quivers or moves a wing, three people jump in to fix it back up.

11 (43m 15s):
There's some feathers on the breast. A little bit, a little bit fluffy. You know, it's like she's not real clean down there. Okay, she's a little farther. You guys are a great team. I'm gonna hire you to come with me. Oops. I got a hand in there. That's why. Move the hand. Move the hand the time. Lose the hand. Okay, great.

1 (43m 34s):
It wasn't until this point that I realized that I came into this sort of expecting the bird to be more well, more human. Let's just

11 (43m 41s):
Continue this pretty

1 (43m 41s):
Much we're gonna catch one. I think because I had never really thought about this one way or the other, but partly because Tamara's photos make chickens seem so, so thoughtful.

11 (43m 54s):
Go

15 (43m 55s):
Over here.

11 (43m 56s):
Look at the camera. Look at the camera right there. It's completely out. Frame those

1 (43m 59s):
Photos. RI

11 (44m 1s):
There. Hello.

15 (44m 4s):
Talk to her. I think you're gonna have a one shot opportunity. Here we go. It's gonna be when I let go. Jeez. I didn't let go. I just started to let up and he yanked it right outta my hand.

1 (44m 18s):
Fact is you can try to give chickens respect. You can try to treat them with Dignity and photograph them the way you'd photograph anything or anyone that's serious. But the chickens will not care. You can make them look dignified. But it's a brainless bird like Dignity and it is ephemeral.

12 (44m 35s):
Do you feel like your relationship with chicken has changed because of this?

11 (44m 42s):
No. Not at all.

12 (44m 45s):
How could that not be? So

11 (44m 52s):
I order the chicken. You know, when I'm at the show, I eat it right in front of the chickens.

12 (44m 58s):
You eat chicken while you're standing there with a chicken.

11 (45m 1s):
Yes. Is it wrong? Oh, I'm hungry.

12 (45m 10s):
Well, no wonder they wanna sit still.

11 (45m 14s):
Yeah,

1 (45m 24s):
We pack up our gear and move the massive wall of hay back into place as we do this. Chickens hot by Braas Americanos, mixed breeds. They seem utterly uninterested in us. They cook at each other. There's feed to eat, hate inness insulin. They have better things to do with their time. And you know, there's nothing that makes you realize just how inhuman chickens are that spending a day trying to make them seem human. At four winged migration.

11 (46m 1s):
So

16 (46m 1s):
It was Saturday, January 10th, 2004, and Spalding was in our apartment in New York with our daughter Marissa, who was 16 at the time. And Theo, who was six,

1 (46m 12s):
This is Kathy Russo. Her husband was Spalding Gray, who is best known for delivering monologues on stage like Monster in a Box and Swimming to Cambodia, both as monologues are also filmed as movies. Spalding Gray went missing. On January 10th 2004. Witnesses say they saw him on the Staten Island Ferry that night. His body was finally found, pulled outta the East River Two. months later. Our program today is about birds and the hold they have on us. And Kathy Russo tells this story about Spalding's last night and the days immediately after that, like she just said, her husband was with two of their kids that night. She was out. They have a third child Forest who was 11 at the time. He was in Sag Harbor, long Island with friends and a babysitter.

1 (46m 54s):
They had a house out there too.

16 (46m 56s):
Spalding had had dinner with the kids. And then it got to be about 7:00 PM he said he was gonna meet an old friend. And Marissa goes, oh, that's fine. You know, I'm here. I can, I can watch Theo. And he went out. And about an hour and a half after that he called check in on the kids. Theo answered. And he said, how's everything going? He goes, good. He goes, well, I love you very much and I'll be home soon. And we never saw Spalding again. The next series of events still seemed like a blur to me, even five years later. But the first thing I had to do was go report Spalding missing.

16 (47m 36s):
I did that and then I decided to send the kids home back to Sag Harbor to join their brother. So I stayed for two days, did whatever I could, which was pretty much nothing. And after two days, I just decided I'm going back to Sag Harbor to join all the kids. So I'm driving on the Long Island Expressway, back to Sag Harbor, And I, get a phone call on my cell phone. And it was Theo and he was all excited. And he said, mom, mom, we came home today from school and there was a bird, a little bird flying around the island in the kitchen. I said, and then what did you do next? And he said, well, we, we followed the bird. And Marissa followed him into the bathroom and she tried to calm the bird and she took a hat and cupped it over the bird and captured the bird and went outside and let him out.

16 (48m 26s):
Free And, I was just so dumbfounded and, and awestruck. The first image that came to my head when he said that there was something, a, a bird in particular, circling over this island, was I thought of Spalding and how for the last two years he had obsessively circled around that island, talking to himself, just circling. And in total anguish. You see, two years before that we had been in Ireland celebrating his 60th birthday. And the second day there, Spalding, And, I were in a horrible car accident. Spalding suffered enormous head trauma.

16 (49m 10s):
He was never the same. They actually had to put titanium plate in his head. He was in and outta hospitals for two years after the accident. Doctors prescribed various cocktails of pills for him. Nothing worked. Not even the 20 electric shock treatments that he had. And the second thought I had when I heard about the bird was, was this a message from Spalding? Was he trying to tell us something? We've never had a bird in our house before. And, I, remember the Irish have this saying that if you find a bird in your house after someone dies and it's alive, the person's soul is free.

16 (49m 51s):
And. if you find a dead bird, the person's soul is restless. And. I. Remember Spalding, I'll never forget the story. After his mother killed herself 35 years before his father woke up the very next day and next to his bed where his slippers were on the floor, was a dead bird. And that story just stayed with me. So that night after the kids went to bed, I went around the house. And, I was making sure that another bird could not get into this house. 'cause I wasn't gonna take the chance of another bird coming into the house and, and dying. So I checked all the windows, And, I closed all the fireplaces to make sure, to guarantee that there's no way a bird could come into our house.

16 (50m 35s):
And the next day I was at the dining room table reading the paper. And I looked up and there was a bird across the table peering at me, And, I. I just couldn't believe what I was seeing. So I yell out to the kids who are in the other room, and they run in and the bird takes off and flies up the stairs and we all follow it and we go, it goes into what's our office? And it's perched on top of this window. And, I shut the door behind me. And for some reason, I held up my hands thinking the bird might magically, you know, come to my hands. And, I, go Spalding, it's okay.

16 (51m 18s):
You're safe now. It's okay. It come to me. And Forrest and Theo are on the other side of the door going, mom, why are you calling the bird after dad? And the bird just sat there staring at me. And then it took off and it flew over my hands. And in between the space, in between the door and the floor, it scooted out. Went past the boys flew down the stairs and we had already opened up the kitchen doors and it flew out the kitchen doors and it was safe and it was gone. The next day, I'm in the kitchen and Forrest calls out from the TV room.

16 (51m 58s):
He was watching cartoons. He goes, mom, the bird's back. It's at the end of the couch. So before I even go into the room, I open up the kitchen doors just to make sure we have an exit for the bird. And I run into the family room, and sure enough, there's the bird. And we do, it's like become a drill. Now, this is the third day, consecutive day with the bird in our house. And we follow the bird around and it, this time it goes through the living room and then it comes back into the kitchen. And I actually got the camera out. And I took a picture of it and the bird flew out just like that. It was gone.

16 (52m 38s):
And Two months later, they found Spalding's body in the East River. I think with suicide in particular, it's, it's a really hard death to digest. There's a lot of guilt. You go back and back and you, you get into that mode of I should have done this. I could have done that. It's a, it's a seesaw of, of guilt and forgiveness. So last year was my 47th birthday. And I was feeling kind of blue. And I was really missing. Spalding And, I went on this bike route that the two of us used to take together. And it ends up by the water.

16 (53m 19s):
And just before I got to the water, I saw this little brownish, Gray bird sitting on the side of the road road just like the one that we had in our house. And. I passed by on my bike. I I ride pretty fast, but something told me, go back, And I did. And the bird was just sitting there and I'd get up close to it and didn't fly away. So I figured the bird was hurt and I'm looking at the bird crouching over it and this jogger goes by me. And he said, oh, that bird was there two hours ago when I started my run. So I raced back home on my bike. And I went into the house, And I collected a shoebox. And I filled it with grass and bird seeded, got some rubber gloves, And I drove back to where the bird was and the bird was still there.

16 (54m 1s):
It was about a mile from my house and it's just looking up at me. So I thought it was really hurt. And I tried to scoop it into the shoebox and it just gets up, looks at me and flies away. There's nothing wrong with it. Wings were flying. I saw it flying off into the distance. And I thought. It just hit me like a ton of bricks right at that moment. There was nothing I could do to save this innocent little bird, which in the end he was fine. He flew away and there was nothing I could do to save Spalding.

1 (54m 38s):
Kathy Russo these days, she's the producer on the podcast, you and me, both with Hillary Clinton and the executive producer of the podcast. Here's the thing with Alec Baldwin,

3 (55m 3s):
Won't you say to me and a long time to

1 (55m 17s):
With the various stories In today's rerun, were produced by Alex Bloomberg, Susan Burton, Ben Calhoun, Cheney, Jane Marie, Sarah Kanig, Jonathan Var, Lisa Pollock, Brian Reed, Simeon and Alyssa Ship, Julie Snyder, Elise Spiegel, and Nancy Updike Music up from Mr. John Connor's other help today from What Ira, Josephson and Jay Headway Additional production on today's rerun from James Bennett at II Michael Comte and Stone Nelson. Some updates on the people in today's rerun, Tamara Staples has launched a Kickstarter campaign for a new project, a documentary series about showed chickens. It's called The Standard of Perfection. George cns, the grandfather from the Davidson Dairy Farm died back in 2011. Susan Bertucci's Opera about Chicken Little is available on CD and also on several streaming platforms.

1 (55m 59s):
More information on where you can find it@www.pina.org. That is pina spelled of course P-U-L-C-I-N-A jacket Story about our first aired all the way back in 1997. Our website, This American Life dot org where you can stream over 800 of our episodes for absolutely free. Also, there's merch for your holiday shopping. This American life is delivered. Public radio stations by PRX, the Public Radio exchange. Thanks to O Program's co-founder Mr. To Malatia. You know what product drives him? Crazy. Chicken of the Sea. He's like, is that chicken? It's tuna typical that a tuna would fib like that chicken never would.

2 (56m 41s):
Chickens aren't gonna lie. Chickens have integrity.

1 (56m 47s):
Ameri Glass. Back next week with more stories of This, American, Life.

3 (56m 51s):
Hello Bird. What makes you fly so high?

1 (57m 17s):
Next week on the podcast of this American Live, Kendra d her dog, out for a walk on the beach in Quincy, Massachusetts, not far from her house, walking on the sand. And then

17 (57m 28s):
My one foot started to really sink and then I was attempting to pull that foot out and then my other foot started to sink. I was really sinking quite fast.

1 (57m 42s):
Quicksand not in a desert island, but like in the neighborhood. Getting yourself outta scrapes when the cavalry is not coming next week on the podcast or in your local public radio station. This podcast is supported by Grammarly.

18 (58m 6s):
For over 10 years, Grammarly has been powered by AI technology that you trust and rely on. With one click, you and your team can easily brainstorm, rewrites, and reply quickly with suggestions based on your context and goals. More than 30 million people rely on Grammarly to help them with their writing today. From important emails to send cover letters to submit or presentations to finalize, you'll be amazed at what you can do with Grammarly. Go to grammarly.com/podcast to download for free. That's grammarly.com/podcast.