0 (1s):
Support for This American Life comes from Polestar, the era of automotive advances with the all electric Polestar two. Now with faster charging improved EPA estimated range of up to 320 miles and advanced safety technology experience. Awe-inspiring performance combined with luxury design as standard. The time is now the All-electric Polestar two. Book a test, drive and order today@polestar.com.

1 (33s):
Hello?

3 (34s):
Hi, this is Yusef Ash.

1 (37s):
Yes, it is loud and clear.

3 (40s):
Good. Do you, is this still an okay time for you to talk?

1 (46s):
Yes. Okay. Yeah, but it's a bit crazy outside. A lot of cloudness, you know, there's a lot of traffic, especially from the children. Let me find a quiet place. Okay. Close the door. Yes.

4 (1m 0s):
Earlier this month, One of our producers, HANA Jaffy Wa made this call to Yussef homage in Gaza. He works for a humanitarian organization, the Norwegian refugee Council, the NRC Yusef's, in his early thirties. Got two kids, big extended family. Hana, talked to him a few times over the course of one week, really knowing very little about him or his situation at the beginning. And as you'll hear more and more unfolds and gets revealed, and it all feels so immediate and particular to these few weeks right now in the war in Gaza, that we wanted to bring it to you now, like it feels like it's about right now. We have other stories I should say, about this war in the works, including from inside Israel.

4 (1m 42s):
So please stay tuned for those. But for today, with Yussef Hana would talk to him at night. His time, his family was living in the NRC office in Rafa. So he was in the unusual situation in Gaa, where he often did have internet access with solar panels providing power. The first day Hana talked to him, he had just relocated with his wife and kids to Rafa, where the office was. It's along the border with Egypt. His four sisters and their families were about eight miles away in a town called Unis. So here are those conversations.

3 (2m 14s):
So town, talk to me about what did you do today?

1 (2m 20s):
And today I had to find a place for my extended family, which hamdu I found today I found a place And I build a tent, two tents actually, for, because I couldn't find a house to rent or anything. So tomorrow I'll move the rest of my family here, tofa from Hanes to these two tins. And today it takes me a while building these tins. Then I have to go to the market buying whatever I can find.

3 (2m 49s):
What did you find

1 (2m 52s):
Today? I found, ah, that's a good question. I'm trying to remember. So some vegetables, actually it was tomato. Okay. And pepper. And, I couldn't find potato because there is no potato in all of re Gaza and milk for the children. I'm responsible for my children, my sisters, my mother, because I'm the only son here in Gaza. I'm the only man for a bit big family. So I have a quite big responsibility towards them. So

3 (3m 24s):
Have you had decisions that you had to make for everybody that you couldn't figure out what the right choice was?

1 (3m 33s):
Yes. Yeah. That decision that I'm taking today, I decided to build a tent while I, they're an apartment in uni and everything is available for them. I'm taking them in this parish weather in an empty land under a tent. I don't know it's gonna be right or wrong. I had to make this decision several times. Unfortunately. Now it's became, our routine is like that. Now I have to move again. So,

3 (4m 1s):
Yeah.

1 (4m 1s):
And it's, it's, it's not really, it's not easy decision. And I was trying to evaluate the situation on databases.

3 (4m 9s):
Is there anybody in the family that is hesitant? Do you have to?

1 (4m 15s):
Yes, we have. I ha I had Yes. Yes. Yeah. Yeah. They're part of the family. Yeah. Yeah. And even, yeah, and a few minutes ago, a few minutes ago, I was having this debate with my sister that she was like, okay, I I, I'm pregnant. She, because she's pregnant and she don't wanna do the delivery in a tent. and she said like, okay, they are still far like one kilometer away. The tanks And. I was like, she said that we cannot suffer more. At least we are, we have here Bath. Yeah. The main debate was a bathroom about having your privacy to use a bathroom because you know, when you are fleeing in a tent, there is no bathrooms or that privacy. While I'm trying tomorrow, I'll find a way to build a bathroom for them.

3 (4m 57s):
This week that I'm talking to Yusef, it isn't the first time he's moved and convinced his sisters to move too. They started the war in Jabal in the northern part of Gaza on October 7th when Hamas attacked Southern Israel and killed around 1200 people, the majority civilians in their homes at work, enjoying a music festival. Took about 240 people hostage. Yussef immediately moved his family from Jabal to his parents' house in a nearby city bait laia. They moved the very next day, October 8th. It seemed safer there. On October 9th, Israeli airstrikes hit Gibel, and then again on October 12th, 19th, 22nd, 31st, November 1st, second, fourth, and on.

3 (5m 45s):
Gibel now has massive craters, several yards, deep yussef. His family and his sisters had all fled to various relatives and friends in the north until Israel told people in the north to move south. They had cousins in uni in the south of Gaza. So he and his family drove there and convinced his sisters to come too. He says, on the way the cars in front of them and behind them were bombed in uni, they stayed with relatives, Yusef and his wife, and his mom and his kids, and his sisters and their families. Everyone stayed with cousins and relatives in different apartments across the city until Yussef read a leaflet that fell from the sky.

3 (6m 29s):
It said, you must evacuate immediately and go to shelters in the city of Rafa. The city of uni is a dangerous combat zone. Forewarned is Forearmed who signed the Israeli defense forces. That's when he fled to Rafa with his wife and his kids. By that point, over 15,000 people in Gaza had been killed. The majority civilians, the place Yousef works. The NRC had rented an office in Rafa in the area the Israelis were now saying was a safe zone. Yusuf moved his immediate family into the office where he was when I called him, where he is now in Rafa.

3 (7m 11s):
But his sisters and their families aren't so sure they wanna follow this time. So Yussef, from the moment he got to Rafa has been pushing his sisters in es to come. He's been at that for almost a week,

1 (7m 26s):
To be honest. All each one of them have its own personality, and they have to persuade her the way I know each one of them. One of them, she, she's worried about her father-in-Law And Mother-in-law is like, okay, they're not, they're, they're not safe and they're in the seat. I'll build them a tent, but I want to make sure that you are with me here. I, I'll bring them also. The other one, I had to do the same option with her. Okay. I'll bring your father-in-Law and their entire family. I'll take care of them. But I want you to come here.

3 (7m 55s):
What about the woman who's pregnant? I,

1 (7m 57s):
I keep doing Yeah. The woman pregnant. She's the youngest and she's the most stubborn one. Yeah, she's the youngest. When we came to the south, there was no military operation on the ground. She refused. And her father-in-Law and Mother-in-law refused. I had a fight with them. And I told them, listen, I want my sister with me. And we had a bit of Fargo because they didn't expect what's coming.

3 (8m 19s):
I hadn't thought about how each time you have to sort of mentally convince yourself that the place that you're in, which is feeling okay at that moment, might not feel okay very soon.

1 (8m 32s):
Yeah, yeah. Because yeah. When, who would ever imagine that the Israeli tanks would be in the center of Jabal camp? Or who would ever imagine that they would be in Shiva Hospital? Yeah, these things, you never imagined that it'll be a real thing that we are seeing by our own eyes. We, we never thought about that.

3 (8m 54s):
Yusef was lobbying his sisters to move as hard as he could, but honestly, he himself wasn't always totally sure about bringing them to Rafa. The evacuation order, it wasn't for all of unis. There was no available housing in Rafa, not that he could find in unis. They had mattresses, a bathroom, and his sisters had moved cities twice already with kids in-laws. So maybe they were fine. But then Yussef says he heard the Israeli military was now in a part of unis. He'd been staying in with his family just a few days before. So maybe they weren't fine.

3 (9m 34s):
Yusef kept searching for new information. He'd ask everyone he met. Look everywhere online, except a few places he avoided.

1 (9m 43s):
I don't open the, my Facebook for example, or an Instagram because all my friends from GA are there. 'cause it's, I don't wanna know who's dead. I, I, I don't wanna know. I don't have the time to respect these people who I lose by coincidence. Few days ago I found out that my uncle is dead. I, I didn't know about that before. And a friend of mine told me that, oh, hey, you know, any, we were just having a chat. And, I mentioned him. I, And I didn't know that he's my uncle. And I was talking, ah, he's my uncle.

1 (10m 23s):
And I was like, yeah, I'm sorry for your loss. I was like, what?

3 (10m 27s):
Oh,

1 (10m 28s):
I didn't, I didn't know. And it was like two weeks ago. He's dead, he's killed two weeks ago in Jabal. While I didn't know,

3 (10m 35s):
How did that come up in that conversation?

1 (10m 38s):
We were, when were we mentioning where his parents living in Jabali, And I was like, okay, my relative's living there. They're from like family And I was like, yeah, yeah, I know him. And I was like, yeah, he is my uncle. He's like, yeah, sorry for your loss. And I was like, no, no, no, no. He's alive in his law. He was killed in the earth. Like I know, I know. And I felt a bit stupid. And it's, it was really weird feeling that I didn't know that my uncle is dead since two weeks he was killed.

3 (11m 8s):
Do you,

1 (11m 9s):
The other thing, okay, just to continue on this story, please. Yesterday, my brother who lives in Sweden, my cousin who is the son of the, my uncle I mentioned, he was asking my brother to check if I have information about his father, And I don't want to be that also to deliver the news for him that his father was killed.

3 (11m 34s):
Have you told him?

1 (11m 36s):
No. I told him there is no connection between the south and the north and it's impossible to reach anyone there. Which is, which is true. There is, there's no phone call. There is nothing that you don't, you cannot reach anyone. The North And I was like, I will try to, to check what's the situation. But yeah, I couldn't, I I didn't want it to be that the one who was getting the news. Oh,

3 (11m 57s):
Yousef. So you didn't, you just couldn't bring yourself to tell him what you had heard.

1 (12m 1s):
Yes. Even my mother who was with me now doesn't know.

3 (12m 8s):
Is it her brother?

1 (12m 10s):
Yes.

3 (12m 12s):
And you not gonna tell her?

1 (12m 14s):
Definitely not. And I'm saying that here because I, I'm sure that they won't, they don't understand English. First of all, And I think they won't listen. Sorry for that. But they're in Gaza. They won't listen to this podcast to know from this podcast that, yeah. And another, another time that my brother-in-Law, his sister was killed with her seven children also. They called me because they, her, his family reached out to me. 'cause they cannot reach him and asked me to tell him that his sister was killed with her entire family. And, and that was painful.

1 (12m 58s):
It, it, it wasn't easy. It was, I don't wanna be in that position again. I always don't. It's one of the first time that I really speak about these things. And it's, it's, it feels really weird for me that I always in front of everyone around me, I'm the man who's managing everything and supporting anyone in need. And, if you need anything, the best one to call is use you Now, I I I, I'm, I'm helpless, useless. And I. I cannot do anything. I cannot even manage my own need.

3 (13m 38s):
So if your uncle comes up, your mom mentions him, or your wife says, oh, I wonder how he's doing. You, you will not say anything.

1 (13m 47s):
It happens. And I didn't say anything. Yes, it happened yesterday. And I was like, no, I'm not gonna say anything. My brain was like circling around And I was like, okay, you have to tell her. She have, she deserve to know that her brother is dead. And I was like, no, she, it's her right to know. and she will blame me a lot when she knows that I was knowing without telling her that I have to shut down. My brain is like, no, you turn off. It's not your role now.

3 (14m 18s):
Not your what?

1 (14m 20s):
It's not your role. Not your role. Don't need to be functioning now.

3 (14m 23s):
Yeah. Focus on building tents.

1 (14m 25s):
That, that's, so that's, I I have to, to be honest, we have, I have plenty of to-do list on my list is many things. My priority. Now it's the time to secure my family and manage their needs more than anything else. For me looking for their safety. It's not about them. Only it's, it's more about me. I cannot imagine for a moment losing one of them. One of my sisters. It has to be me before them. So you, 'cause I, I don't have the strength to even to think about losing one of them.

1 (15m 9s):
That's why I'm doing it. Not because of you. It's because of me. I am don't have that. I am weak to have the strength to handle losing any one of them. I don't have that strength.

3 (15m 23s):
Do you think they do it for you

1 (15m 27s):
Then? They came to Hanes with me. Before me. They, no one was Ag. No one agreed. It was really hard. And I had a fight with my mother. And I. But they, they came because I I I, I want them, I want them to be with me.

3 (15m 43s):
So they do it for you

1 (15m 45s):
That time? Yes, it was for me.

3 (15m 48s):
And this time,

1 (15m 51s):
This time I think I'll prepare everything. I'll prepare the tens. I'll find you a place, then I'll move you once when everything's ready to have you. And what pushed me to finish everything today, is there Benjamin Netanyahu, he was threatening Hezbollah. He was like saying, Hezbollah, you should stop what you are doing because if it's not a war, we will turn Beirut into Za and Hanes. So I was like, okay, now it's Hanes And. I need toe them from there. They are, they're in the center of Hanes.

3 (16m 23s):
Did you send them that quote?

1 (16m 27s):
Yep. 'cause a lot of people stay until the last moment. And when they evacuate, they evacuate under bombing And. I. Don't want my sisters to experience that.

3 (16m 39s):
What does the tent look like?

1 (16m 43s):
So there is two types of tents. Now I became expert, by

3 (16m 46s):
The way, I was gonna ask you how you know how to build tents so quickly.

1 (16m 50s):
So one, one, I get it through NRC where I work. And it was with instruction. That was easy. The other one is like wooden sticks with plastic. The hardest part was finding a place, a suitable place to rent a small land. Not in randomly the streets. you know, it's agricultural area. It's a bit sand everywhere.

3 (17m 13s):
So you rent a land, you don't, you didn't just,

1 (17m 16s):
Wow.

3 (17m 17s):
I'm sorry what?

1 (17m 18s):
It was massive. A atri

3 (17m 21s):
Just now.

1 (17m 21s):
Yeah. Yes. Another airline. They're going to, they're getting crazy somehow. All of this uni,

3 (17m 31s):
The explosions are in uni right now.

1 (17m 34s):
Yeah, yeah, yeah. Another one. Okay. What's going on? I'll call you in a minute. Okay, no problem. Just

3 (17m 47s):
No

1 (17m 47s):
Problem. Just to check. Okay. One minute. I'll call you back.

3 (17m 49s):
Take your time. Bye.

1 (17m 51s):
'cause it's, it seems really massive there. Okay. Okay.

3 (17m 54s):
Bye. Hi.

1 (18m 2s):
Hello? Hi. Yes. Sorry. Is everybody

3 (18m 6s):
Okay? Wanna

1 (18m 6s):
Make sure that they're still alive? Yeah, they're alive.

3 (18m 10s):
Do you literally Right. Are you alive?

1 (18m 12s):
Yeah. It was a funny message for my sister. Are you alive?

3 (18m 16s):
Wait, that's funny.

1 (18m 20s):
Yeah. 'cause I had to send a smile and emojis laughing. That's why, how we're talking always. And even when I'm with them, it's like, okay, we have one more day to live. Let's enjoy it. Maybe two days. Okay.

3 (18m 32s):
So you, you wrote her, are you a alive, smiley face?

1 (18m 37s):
Yeah.

3 (18m 39s):
Oh my god. That's, yeah. and she writes back. Yes. Or she laughs.

1 (18m 45s):
Yeah, she laughs. and she said it's a bit calm. A bit calm. Okay. I dunno what she means. A bit calm. But yeah,

3 (18m 55s):
I'll let you go. I've taken so much of your time.

1 (18m 58s):
Thank you so much.

3 (18m 59s):
And, and tomorrow what's gonna happen is your sisters are gonna move.

1 (19m 4s):
Yeah. This is gonna be the early thing for me to do in the morning. 'cause I don't want them to move under the bombing. So I wanna keep with them when it's a bit calm and manageable without risks. So I'll do it in the early morning, but maybe because of the rain, it's, ah, I need to assist the situation tomorrow morning. Okay. I I promised them that we may make decision together this time tomorrow morning.

3 (19m 30s):
But you've already made the decision that you want them to go.

1 (19m 32s):
Yes. Yes.

3 (19m 35s):
Okay. I hope you have a, an easy night. And. I will check in with you tomorrow.

1 (19m 40s):
That's a good phrase. Easy night. Okay. and she, thank you. Thank you. Okay.

3 (19m 45s):
Bye. Thank you.

1 (19m 46s):
Bye-Bye.

3 (19m 51s):
Hi Yusef.

1 (19m 52s):
Hello.

3 (19m 53s):
Did your sisters move today?

1 (19m 57s):
Unfortunately, not yet. And they, they were refusing to leave without a bathroom. But today there were a lack of tanks and airstrikes. No, I promised them that tomorrow it's gonna be, there'll be a bathroom tomorrow. Tomorrow I make my best to make it happen.

3 (20m 12s):
I wanna jump in and say a little bit about what Yusuf doing. His best. Looks like an incomplete summary of that particular day. He spent the morning trying to track down trucks for the Norwegian refugee council where he works. The trucks were full of aid, things like bedding, tents, buckets for water that should have arrived at the border. But he couldn't check online if they were there because the system was down and the phones weren't working. So he went in person, wandered around, looking at plate numbers, could not find the trucks. Then he went to the market to find medicine for his wife. Manal, who's sick, could not find medicine. In the midst of all this, he got a call from another relative who was fleeing and needed a place to stay in Rafa.

3 (20m 56s):
Yes. Yes. You can come. Yussef told him one more tent near his sister's tents. Yussef saw a guy building a bathroom, hired that guy, but he's busy until tomorrow. The bathroom guy told Yussef he needed to find supplies. So Yussef spent hours searching for cement stones and a water tank. He found a water tank, but it was in a different part of Gaza. So Yussef paid more than the price of the water tank to get it transported. I was picturing like a hole in the ground that you were gonna build near, you're gonna dig near the tents, but you're building an actual bathroom with water and walls.

1 (21m 35s):
Yes. That's actually, that was a condition from my sisters.

3 (21m 40s):
So is that the first thing for you tomorrow?

1 (21m 44s):
Definitely, yes. It'll be happening for sure tomorrow because yeah, a few, two hours ago or less, there an airstrike near them and it takes me like half an hour or more just trying to call, trying to call. I couldn't reach anyone and that's freak me out. And I, I, I, I cannot handle the situation again. And I managed to reach my sister and yeah, fine, there's a lot of gas and lot of bombing, but we are fine. And that's what, and this is when we agreed Halas, tomorrow you are moving And. I will come to PQ tomorrow.

3 (22m 22s):
Oh, you did?

1 (22m 24s):
Yeah. Very.

3 (22m 25s):
So she, she definitely agreed.

1 (22m 28s):
Yeah. Yeah. I then, sorry Ed, like Yeah. Are we recording or something? 'cause my son is just annoying me.

3 (22m 37s):
That's okay. I like hearing him. How old is he?

1 (22m 40s):
Two year and a half.

3 (22m 41s):
Two and a half.

1 (22m 42s):
Ilia. Lemme just ask him to close the door. Last night we had, I had to stay awake until Ahmed, who does cannot sleep without being kissed thousand times and his cheeks until he sleep. Sometimes when he feel that I'm tired of kissing him, he give me his hand to kiss it.

3 (23m 10s):
So that you have it close to you.

1 (23m 12s):
Exactly. Yeah. He, he, he like to give me some rest sometimes. Okay. Can kiss my hand. I don't know how we get this habit, but I, I don't mind it. And for me it's okay. I'm really grateful for the, the rain. It start raining, then that reduce the, the sound of bombing and also you can use it. Oh, this is a thunder strike. so we are lucky today. We can, I can, we can manipulate that. So y

3 (23m 39s):
So you'll tell them in the night if they hear a noise? Yeah,

1 (23m 42s):
It's raining. It's raining, it's raining, you know, it's for thunder strike. It's raining. Danny, I dunno. At the beginning, I, it was a bit easy to convince them that this is fireworks or thunder strike. But then even my daughter, Ilia, which is five years old now, can understand that this is a strike. Even my son Ahmed, who's two years and a half, and he can say like, bombing, this is from airplane. And he keep using this word Gus. Gus, which means strikes. And what, that's another massive.

3 (24m 26s):
Is it close to you?

1 (24m 28s):
No. If it was close, you would hear it.

3 (24m 30s):
Okay. Okay.

1 (24m 34s):
I failed to convince them that this is not a war and to, I failed that they know that this is a war in that age. And they see how we are shouting. My, my sisters are crying, or it's not enough anymore for my children to, when they feel panic from bombing to run towards us, they, they, they start scream without even running towards us because somehow they understood that we are, we don't have that ability to protect them. And that, that, that's something really awful. When you, you understand that your children understand that you cannot protect them.

1 (25m 19s):
When I start to feel used in front of my children, And I. When I found that I cannot protect my children, I I deeply regret it. Because

3 (25m 28s):
You regret what, what

1 (25m 30s):
Is the meaning as a father? I regret having children here. What is the meaning for me as a father if I cannot protect them?

3 (25m 36s):
You regret having children, having children in Gaza?

1 (25m 40s):
Yes, definitely. I regret, I made them, I made that decision. And I had children in Gaza. While I know the consequences, but I wasn't imagining that we will go through this because I am a man of responsibility. I'm responsible for these children to secure their life and future. If I know that they will live through this, I would never, ever even get married here.

3 (26m 10s):
You would never get married? Is that what you said?

1 (26m 12s):
Yes. Yes.

3 (26m 14s):
Yeah. Is a part of that feeling like, I should have known not to do this or

1 (26m 20s):
It's I should never did that decision? Hello?

3 (26m 33s):
Hi, Yusef. Do you, is it, do you have a couple minutes?

1 (26m 38s):
Yeah, yeah, of course. Yeah, yeah.

3 (26m 40s):
How did today go?

1 (26m 43s):
O It was really, really long day that start really early and it was a lot of things to do.

3 (26m 51s):
Did they move?

1 (26m 52s):
Yeah,

3 (26m 53s):
They moved.

1 (26m 54s):
So I brought them on. Yeah. Yeah, they moved.

3 (26m 57s):
Wow. You did it took you

1 (26m 59s):
Oh, it was really a lot. Last night they were texting me about lot of bombing next to the house. Next to them was bombed. Another house behind them was bombed. And so they, they wanted to move, they wanted to go Halas

3 (27m 13s):
Yousef. The house next to them was bombed last night.

1 (27m 16s):
Yes. Yeah. Last night was a, when they start texting me that the bombing is around us, but

3 (27m 24s):
Yeah. But there was an airstrike that hit a property right next to them.

1 (27m 30s):
Yes. But it's a drone strike, so, okay. We have different types of missiles that Israelis are using. So there is the F 16, which war planes and this American made weapon that destroy entire neighborhoods. The drones have smaller bombs that destroy a house or half of the house. They were afraid that it's, it's that the bombing might be in the same house because it's four floors and they're the first ones. So that's why they are they were, they didn't Argo me. And they're like, yes, let's, let's move.

3 (28m 7s):
Did you think about going in the night?

1 (28m 10s):
Yeah, I told them I'm coming.

3 (28m 12s):
You texted back. I'm coming.

1 (28m 14s):
Yes. And they were freaking out that I will come and my wife prevented me. My sisters were texting me, do not come. There is a lot of bombing in the street, in front of the house. Do not come.

3 (28m 28s):
Yusuf waited till the sun came up and then drove to unis. He says on his way there he could hear gunfire and explosions all around him.

1 (28m 38s):
The first thing I did in the morning is like, I went there back up in the car, my sisters and their children, And I came and then I sent another car, like a small van, small pass store and had the bags and everything. And my brothers-in-law.

3 (28m 55s):
Was there a part of you that felt a little frustrated? Like, I told you guys you should have come earlier? I didn't want it to get to this.

1 (29m 6s):
That's exactly what first thing I said today. When I met them, I,

3 (29m 11s):
That was how you greeted them.

1 (29m 14s):
Yeah.

3 (29m 14s):
What did you say?

1 (29m 16s):
And first thing is like I told you, we don't wanna, 'cause there was a lot of bombing, a lot of tanks. Like I told you before, we don't need to run away under shilling and bombing, but now we did it tell us. Yeah. Every time had to be the same situation.

3 (29m 30s):
So overnight you're worried about their survival and you're panicked and you wanna drive to get them in the middle of the night. But in the morning you greet them with I told you so this is what I said was gonna happen. Yep.

1 (29m 43s):
I was blaming them. So there is no discussion. We are leaving.

3 (29m 48s):
So you didn't like hug them and cry and say, I'm so glad you survived. You said, no,

1 (29m 53s):
Get in the car. No, I was, I No, no. We have a different driver relation. I don't, it's not about hugging them. I was laughing. You should have died. I should be in the morgue now. This is how I'm with my sisters.

3 (30m 9s):
And did they laugh? What did they say back?

1 (30m 11s):
And Haddi was like, ah, you know, actually they would start to give me orders quickly. You need to talk to our cousin. Imagine, because he was supposed us. You need to invite him. You have to talk to him nicely and push to bring them with us because they take care of us for a long time. Now we have to repay them. Also go to our uncle line because they wanted to to have invited by you. Not us. It's a between like, okay, I'll do this and you, you, you beg the leg edge and you do that and they refuse to leave before cleaning everything.

3 (30m 43s):
They, they wouldn't leave without cleaning the house.

1 (30m 45s):
Yep. Cleaning the house, kitchen bathrooms.

3 (30m 47s):
Even though you're fleeing bombing.

1 (30m 50s):
Yes. Because they were, yeah. Yeah. That was actually weird from them. But this is how they think And I really respect it because we, we leave it better than the way we receive. We have, this is how we show respect. And we had to clean.

3 (31m 4s):
And then you left. Yep. Okay.

1 (31m 7s):
Then we left.

3 (31m 8s):
What did it,

1 (31m 9s):
And they saw, it was the first time for them since the beginning of the war to see the sea.

3 (31m 15s):
Oh.

1 (31m 16s):
And they were very, very excited and happy.

3 (31m 20s):
How did they respond to the tents when you showed them where they're staying?

1 (31m 25s):
And I was expecting that they will feel like it's not nice, but that they were happy. It's like, okay, it's NICE's good.

3 (31m 32s):
Did you feel nervous?

1 (31m 35s):
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I want them to see that. To, to prove for them that I did my best. And I was checking on them inside the tents. What do you think? It's warm. There's two layers for the tent, one for the rain, and one inside. And I was trying to convince them as, you know, these sale sale people who is trying to convince you to buy something.

3 (31m 59s):
That was you. That's

1 (32m 0s):
Exactly what I was, that was me today. you know, it's not, it's good. We'll do go the bathroom here. We'll get something there. Here we can turn on the fire. And I was like, oh, one minute. I'll get you internet tomorrow. And I will get you lights here. Our neighbors have a solar panel. He'll connect us some lights. Yeah. And I was trying, I was doing that sale salesman. And they were happy.

3 (32m 25s):
They were Did they give you the response you wanted? Yeah.

1 (32m 29s):
Yeah. It's like, yeah. Yeah. It's nice. But also I, when in our way coming, we went through one of the camps that people, you know, people are just building tents in the streets and they saw how miserable the situation is. So And I meant I meant to go there before taking them to our, our place.

3 (32m 52s):
You did it on purpose.

1 (32m 54s):
Exactly. Because I want to, I want them to see how people are living. So to, to prove for them that I did my best managing the what I could. When I met them today, I, I found out that they didn't eat it for two days. They only eat rice. So first thing I was thinking about, like preparing a really big meal for them. And they were surprised. I had barbecues and kebab. And I was like, no, no, no.

3 (33m 24s):
So they had a meal. You had a meal together.

1 (33m 26s):
I a very big one. It was very expensive one, but I was like, okay, I'll feed you until you had more than enough. Wow. Yeah. So after like fasting for two days, it, was it worth to provide them with something really good?

3 (33m 43s):
Did they appreciate it?

1 (33m 45s):
Oh, a lot. They were very happy. I was very happy also having this meal. Hello Hannah.

3 (33m 57s):
Hi Yusuf. How you doing?

1 (34m 1s):
Good. All good. Just

3 (34m 3s):
This call. Five days after I started speaking to Yusuf was the first time I talked to him when he was not agonizing over his sisters and how to get them out of Hanes. They were there their first day in their new place. Settling in, still wasn't a bathroom. But Yusef had asked a neighbor if his family could use their bathroom until his was up and running. He went to work that morning, made it a couple hours into the day when he got a call from his youngest sister. Ail.

1 (34m 30s):
It's too complicated.

3 (34m 33s):
Wait, tell me what happened with your sister.

1 (34m 36s):
So Asil today wanted to go to the bathroom and she waited. So there is in the land next to us, they have a bathroom and they're friends of mine. And my neighbors is hosting more than 60 people. So they have to wait in line to, in this bathrooms a single bathroom.

3 (34m 53s):
Oh wow. How pregnant is she? When is she due?

1 (34m 59s):
So she is at the seventh month about to finish it. and she cannot wait. She's pregnant and she, Annie, it's a bit embarrassing for her. And so she start to cry and then she called me

3 (35m 10s):
While she was in line.

1 (35m 12s):
So she tried several times and she, she, she were hopeless. Then she start to cry and decided to go back to Hanes. She decided that, and she called me and she told me, I am leaving to Hans. Now. That's changed the day I had to go back to meet my sister, take her to the bathroom, spend an hour or more. I went, I stopped the line.

3 (35m 44s):
How did the 60 people waiting respond to that?

1 (35m 48s):
Well, it went okay. There was someone inside And. I told them, no one is getting inside. No one goes to the bathroom. Halas until my sister finished.

3 (35m 59s):
Was she seriously thinking about going back to Hanes?

1 (36m 4s):
I don't think so. It's, it shows me that he, he needs me. And, I need to find a solution now. and she is, she's above the limit.

3 (36m 13s):
The whole week, Yousef had been telling me that he needed his family close to him so he could think rationally about what was going on around him. Now they're here with all the joy and irritation that comes with having family close by. They're together in Rafa. They've moved from the very north of Gaza all the way down the furthest south they can go. There is nowhere else. They're at the bottom edge of the Gaza strip on the border with Egypt. Yussef can think a little bit about what's next.

1 (36m 49s):
What what makes a bit harder on me. That, that I've been outside Gaza. I know how it looks like outside when I, first time I've been outside, Gaza was last year.

3 (37m 1s):
And it was for your job to

1 (37m 3s):
Yes. To Norway. To with NRC. And, and when I arrived to Oslo, Norway in the airport, they, they, they stamped my passport and she said, welcome. And it was weird for me. The there is no interrogation. They're not gonna question me anything. They're not gonna look for me as a terrorist. And they're, they're not gonna check my bags or my body or my, they, they, they just allow me to enter And I. It feels weird. It feels weird in a way that I want them to check me, interrogate me. Like, this is not you. This is not the usual way. Come on guys, you have to, you didn't job ask

3 (37m 41s):
Me some questions. Yeah, yeah,

1 (37m 43s):
Yeah. Come on. You have to ask me something. You have to ask me where I live or whatever. Who's my neighbor or what I do or what's my relation with the militant groups in Gaza? You have to ask me about anything. Come on. And I And I saw how the world is massive. For me, Gaza was a bit big. you know how Gaza is very, very narrow piece of land. And for me it was huge. But when I saw the world outside Gaza, And, I was like, guys, we are living in a small neighborhood.

3 (38m 15s):
What felt different?

1 (38m 17s):
Everything is different. Cannot imagine how I was feeling when I saw the first time an airplane or an airport. I felt like I'm four years old. And, I was saying always, I'm gas more than any gas in here because I never been outside. And when I went outside, I, I understood how it feels. I, I, I saw how people are living their life. And, I totally understand why they don't really care about us. They are busy with their lives. This is the entire generation never been outside Gaza. And what my children, what they have been through is something unimaginable.

1 (39m 7s):
And they don't deserve that. What's the world expecting from this generation after 15 years when they live through all of this?

3 (39m 18s):
What do you expect?

1 (39m 21s):
More violence. How they gonna think rationally?

3 (39m 27s):
Do you worry about that with your own children?

1 (39m 30s):
I made that decision. And when this war finished, if we survived, I I will take them outside. I'm not allowing my children to go through this situation again.

3 (39m 46s):
You wanna leave?

1 (39m 51s):
It's, I know it's gonna be really, really difficult. Gas is part of us. Yani, And I know. It's, but it's, it's really hard to think about that now, to be honest, in the middle of the war. But I made a decision that without thinking about it, they're not gonna stay here. So it's 10 30 now, so you wanna go to bed? It's pretty, yeah. Yeah. And at least it's gone. Now. I can, I could catch some Okay. Before they start shooting or something?

3 (40m 27s):
Yeah, do you should do that. Okay. Okay. Bye.

1 (40m 30s):
Have a nice night. Sorry. Bye.

4 (40m 37s):
Yusef homage in Gaza talking to Hahan Jaffe Wald. The story was produced by Nancy Updike, edited by me and Nancy and Emmanuel Berry, mixed by Catherine Raimondo, FactCheck by Jane Ackerman. Special thanks today to Shane. Go Nabi Cha Katt, Hani Ley Anna Baba, Brian Kaner Georges and Mark Glasgow. the show comes to you from WB e z Chicago and PRX Public Radio International will be back this weekend just a couple days from now with a new episode for you.

8 (41m 14s):
Looking for a fun way to win up to 25 times your money. This basketball season test. Your skills on Prize picks the most exciting way to play daily fantasy sports. Just select two or more players, pick more or less on their projected stats and place your entry. You could turn $10 into $250 right now. Prize Picks will match your first deposit up to $100. Just visit Prize picks.com/fan and use code fan. That's code fan at Prize picks.com/fan. Must be present in certain states. Visit restrictions and details.