0 (1s):
The all electric Porsche Tycon sounds like this, but to the driver it feels like this. In other words, the Tycon is the first electric car with a genuine sports car soul. The all electric tycon, it is to the electric car. What the Porsche nine 11 is to the sports car. Learn more@porscheusa.com.

2 (33s):
A quick warning, There are curse words that are UN beeped in today's episode of the show. If, you prefer a beeped version. you can find that at our website, This American Life dot org.

3 (44s):
As this year comes to an end and we think about what politics looks like right now in our country, a good place to understand it is a state political party that made a very bold choice. This year.

5 (58s):
The convention will come to order.

3 (60s):
The state is Michigan. This is a meeting that happened in February where the Michigan Republican Party had to pick a new leader.

5 (1m 6s):
If you wanna return to your seats, you're welcome to. If you don't, that's fine. I know you're going get up and sprint to vote here in a minute.

3 (1m 11s):
They were at a crossroads noise level down. They'd gotten killed in the midterm elections, which are just a few months before this creamed. They were further outta power than they'd been in 40 years. Democrats controlling the State House, the Senate governor's office, most of the congressional seats And why? Well, a big reason was 'cause the Republicans had all these candidates who were pushing the idea that the presidential election had been stolen. Michigan voters are not into that. They do not wanna elect candidates who are obsessed with the election being stolen apparently. So at this meeting in February, the party needed to elect a leader who's gonna rebuild, take the party forward. And, if you think about it, one logical path they could have taken is they could have picked somebody who renounced the whole election fraud thing, right?

3 (1m 57s):
All the conspiracy theories about voting machines and just all that stuff that Michigan voters are rejecting. But there were no candidates like that at all. Nobody who said, let's drop all this election fraud stuff 'cause a candidate like that would not have a ghost of a chance of the Republicans in this room were the ones who actually pick the new party leader. In the last two years, election fraud stopped. The steal enthusiasts have driven out the regular old-fashioned conservatives and even another Malov Trump enthusiasts. Those people who have been ousted, if they didn't care enough about election fraud or if they have ties to the old party establishment that this new guard sees as completely corrupt compromising rhinos. So in the end, at this convention, there were nine candidates.

3 (2m 41s):
And just to give you a sense of the range of this group, the most traditional Republican of this bunch was a guy named Scott Greenley. Any somebody who thought like, okay, election fraud is a problem, but he also came with connections to donors to old school pre January 6th Republicans. If I Greenley is an experienced political consultant, which by the way in this crowd is not an asset. He talked to one of the producers on our show, Zoe Chase.

6 (3m 6s):
So everyone's telling me that you're the establishment candidate.

7 (3m 9s):
Oh my goodness. Well, I get called all the names. I mean, I'm called establishment. I get called a rhino. That's even worse. I've also been called an America first guy because in 2016 I was working extremely hard for President Trump long before a lot of people were involved in the party.

3 (3m 27s):
So that's Scott Greenway, the most traditional Republican, the least traditional candidate for party chair was a complete political outsider in every way. Somebody who was involved in politics started in 2020 as a poll watcher in Detroit, someone who got famous when she claimed that she saw election fraud with her own eyes. She went under Steve Bannon's podcast and all kinds of right-wing media and then ran for Secretary of State. She's an arresting talker, black, a millennial, a devout Christian named Kristina Karamo. So she tries to become Michigan Secretary of State and was soundly rejected by voters, defeated by 14 percentage points. Again, 'cause Michigan voters are not going for the kind of election fraud stuff that she was peddling and she did not concede the race still hasn't, which is something that the Republican delegates at the state convention loved about her.

8 (4m 18s):
It's a reason I did not concede after the 2022 election, why would I concede to a fraudulent process? Conceding to a fraudulent process is in an agreement with the fraud is, which I will not do. We will grow this party without compromising our values. We're gonna be a party that grows like never before. We're going to be a political machine that strikes fear in the heart of Democrats and we're gonna win vote Karamo O Pego.

3 (4m 45s):
And maybe you saw this coming. Karamo wins. As you can see, she becomes the head of the Michigan Republican Party. The outsider is the grassroots is not for nothing. The Christian. And in picking Karamo, Michigan, Republicans, were saying basically what we want as a party is somebody to lead who a believes the election was stolen. And B has no connection to any establishment political machinery of the past, which is all corrupt. That kind of purity test is something that you see a lot among Republicans right now and the House of Representatives in Washington. So many political fights are basically between Republicans who don't want to compromise at all. And everybody else.

3 (5m 27s):
You see this in other Republican state parties in swing states, Arizona, Colorado, Georgia. But no state party has taken the flying leap off the cliff that the Michigan Republicans have more than any other state party. They have the least politically connected, furthest from the establishment, most ideological party leader and her followers running things among other things. I have to say, it is an enormously idealistic act done by true believers who feel deeply that the only way outta the mess that we're in as a country is a total break with what has come before. And when Karamo won, they were amped.

9 (6m 2s):
I am excited. Everything's gonna change.

3 (6m 5s):
There were tears.

1 (6m 6s):
Oh my God,

10 (6m 10s):
I pray for her now. Now it starts

3 (6m 12s):
Today on our program. When a political party takes a leap like this one throws itself out in an act of faith like this one in a major swing state, what does that gamble look like? What happens next? Today we're gonna look at how this year unfolded for these true believers. Producer Zoe Chase went many, many times to Michigan throughout this year and as a special up close and personal. Look at how all this played out from WB e z Chicago. It's This American Life. I'm a glass. Stay with us Wan the Lonely Island.

3 (6m 54s):
Okay, you know, before we jump any deeper in this, maybe I should take a sec and explain just what a state party actually does. It's basically an organization set up to handle all kinds of boring, practical work that you need to do if you wanna win elections. They recruit candidates, they organize meetings. They are these massive get out the vote operations for state elections and for national candidates too. And above all else, they raise money to pay for campaigns and buy ads and do everything else. And the person who raises that money usually is the party chair. And so to have somebody with no political connections in that job, like Kristina Karamo, that is very unusual. Zoe tells the story from here.

6 (7m 35s):
Now Kristina Karamo was elected in February and the party did not pull together behind their new chair. There was a ton of infighting still over the first few months. And the first major test of her leadership, her ability to get things done, came this fall. The Mackinac Island Conference. It's a big symbolic fabled event in Michigan politics. Politicians, lobbyists, presidential candidates, all make their way up to Northern Michigan and get on a ferry to this island where no cars are allowed. Horse-drawn carriages instead. So the whole place does smell like horse shit, which makes it a perfect setting for a group of politicos. They have knob, they gossip, they make deals, they raise money.

6 (8m 18s):
And the test for Christina was with all the old school Republicans. She and her followers have ejected from the party. Could she raise enough money to even hold the conference? Would it even happen? Raising money is probably the most important thing the state party chair does. And Christina has no fundraising background over the last 10 years. The list of reported jobs she's done are the scraping by kind sales clerk, trivia host, substitute teacher, adjunct community college instructor. She made a Christian podcast. Her plan to fund the party was to get donations from small Republican businesses who have supposedly been sitting on the sidelines.

6 (8m 58s):
'cause they didn't think the party was conservative enough, but that never seemed to get off the ground. And for months before Mackinac, there were rumors like how would she ever come up with the cash for this big show Bodhi Affair to get a read on those rumors. I checked in now and then with John Smith, he's the perfect person to go to because he totally epitomizes what the Michigan GOP has become. He's an unabashed conspiracy theorist. He started in state politics around 2020. He chartered two buses to get to January 6th. Didn't go inside the capitol. He says he and others stopped. The dealers took over their local county parties. John's on the state committee, Now.

6 (9m 38s):
he was like, I doubt Christina raised enough money to pull off Mackinac.

11 (9m 42s):
I think they're lying to people about the speakers and stuff. They don't have a way to pay for 'em, I don't think. But I think you know that like that documentary with that guy that did that concert on the Island Fry, I think that's like what they're doing here,

12 (9m 59s):
The Fyre Festival.

11 (10m 1s):
But it's in my GOP. you know, that's what, that's what District nine chairs is telling me.

6 (10m 7s):
Literally in the FY Festival documentary, people show up in The Bahamas and instead of Blink 180 2 and the Instagram models, they were promised there is no music, no food, no water, and soggy FEMA tents. We all find that Mackinac isn't quite that desperate. When I got up to the Grand Hotel, there was definitely a Republican conference taking place with Trump hats and red, white and blue sparkly pins as promised, and a grand piano playing a song about how anything is possible if only you believe. But apparently this year was really different from past years. At night I was wandering with a couple attendees, including one of the younger vice chairs, Hassan Mimi in a suit and a low founding Father Z ponytail.

6 (10m 55s):
We were headed upstairs in an elevator looking for the Mackinac parties, which I'd heard were legendary.

13 (11m 0s):
Oh, you haven't been to one of these before? No. Oh yeah. Very funny. This is your first time in Mackinac. Oh yeah. Just this very, it's like imagine going to the mall and there's like one store open. This is how this weekend feels to me.

6 (11m 12s):
In what weeks? How is it like

13 (11m 14s):
One store open? Because last time you walk on the porch there's like 800 people and now there's like nobody. Yeah, and every event this

6 (11m 21s):
Everybody. Yeah. Last time there were around 2000 attendees this year. The best guess I saw was 800 at the very most out on the colossal porch. At one point I talked to another state committee member who was upset about how things seemed to be going

14 (11m 38s):
Well. It's not exactly what we were hoping or anticipating.

6 (11m 43s):
Mark Forton is one of those who wanted a complete break with how it used to be and how it used to be was that the head of the party was a super rich Michigan guy, real estate mogul. Ron Wiser in the last few years, the party yearly budget has been something like $20 million. A chunk of which came directly from Wiser and mostly one other rich family in Michigan. The devoss.

14 (12m 7s):
We knew that if the grassroots took over the state party that the big shooters would go, not all of them, but we knew the devoss family would go and, and Mr. Wiser would go, they're, they're all globalists, you know, they're all part of the same great big mess that Michigan's in, you know, bringing in the Chinese, the battery factories. So I mean, we know they're globalists

6 (12m 29s):
And then Mark spins out the first of the many times I will hear the theory that Christina is a globalist plant and that the reason things are going so badly is that the establishment planned it this way. From the beginning of her rise to power,

14 (12m 44s):
They knew that grassroots had had enough and they're gonna take over this party. They knew it then. Now the question is, are these globalist types, are they gonna set by and take it or are they gonna start planning for when the grassroots take over? What do we do next? They're after Michigan, there's no doubt,

6 (13m 2s):
But she's like the most anti globalist of them all. She's the anti-global.

14 (13m 8s):
Well, I know I'm not accusing her. I'm saying, but who's pulling the strings? Who I just don't know what to think. I'm, I'm telling you things that you're asking me what's on my mind. Yeah. You're asking me what I'm concerned about. Yeah. And none of them are facts, but my gosh, you look at all this crap going on and you can't come up with a decent answer. And I just don't know. I, I just, I'm trying to find out.

6 (13m 36s):
That's not the only conspiracy theory I hear about Christina in the hallway. I run into someone whose conspiracy theory is on a parallel track, but going the other way. Braden Jacki kind of a frantic little dude. He's a major Christina supporter, a chair on one of her committees. Braden says, it's not Christina who's the globalist plant. Instead, there are secret operatives within the party who are trying to take her out. They're doing it by starting all these rumors. He and his friend Ken Byer, another Karamo loyalist told me about a few,

15 (14m 8s):
Like today, they came up with a, a rumor that Karamo is gonna retire. It's like the most absurd nonsense.

6 (14m 16s):
I saw that on Twitter. But what?

15 (14m 18s):
But why even start that route? Like,

16 (14m 20s):
What is that? They lied because they didn't want people to show up and pack the house. That's why they didn't show. That's

15 (14m 26s):
Exactly what they did.

16 (14m 26s):
So they, I mean, we've been fighting this for a while and all they do is lie, lie, lie, lie, lie, lie, lie.

15 (14m 32s):
And they'll make up the most absurd rumors because they know if they do that, it'll make it, it will try to discredit this event, try to discredit the administration and try to discredit basically all of the MI GOP.

6 (14m 44s):
Why would they want to do that?

15 (14m 46s):
People want power. There's a, there's a, there's an old saying, I, I don't know where it comes from, but some people would rather rule over ashes than allow somebody to beat them.

6 (14m 56s):
Oh yeah. Right. That's something Christina

15 (14m 58s):
Cromwell says. That's absolutely, oh well there you go. I think it's from Game of Thrones.

6 (15m 9s):
The actual business at Mackinac, the meeting of party leaders was a showdown between Christina's supporters and Christina's skeptics about party finances. This was a closed meeting, but I got a tape. Christina's team claimed they'd raised $650,000. The skeptics demanded they open up the books and prove it. Toward the end of the meeting, Christina went to the podium to defend herself.

8 (15m 34s):
As far as the financial health department party is not going bankrupt. It's not, but, but, but I mean, what if, if you receive a treasurer's report unless you think the treasurer is lying to you. Now I will make a comment about a lot of the people who aren't giving. Is it because they don't like or feel they're going bankrupt because they don't like the philosophical direction of the party? That's

6 (15m 59s):
At the end of the day, Christina's team does not agree to quote unquote open the books, show them the party finances and everyone trudges down to the boats frustrated with each other, dodging the piles of fresh horse shit. Act, Two another purity test. Just a few days after the conference ended, there was something else that really has nothing to do with money that came up about Christina's GOP, about who's welcome inside this party. It was an email anonymously penned by a guy who called himself Paul Revere.

6 (16m 44s):
And the gist was an Islamic takeover of America is happening. Homicidal Islamic terrorists are becoming entrenched and infecting our whole country. It concluded to paraphrase Sir Winston Churchill Islam and a man is as dangerous as rabies in a dog. This email was sent out to district chairs and vice chairs of the state party. Three of the vice chairs are Muslim and two of them replied all because they felt attacked by the anonymous email. One of them was Hassan Nimi, the guy who was in the elevator with at Mackinac. Here's what he wrote. Good evening Christina. This email was sent out to the Republican leadership.

6 (17m 25s):
Every elected member and all the district chairs. Conveniently, you were not added. So I decided to forward it over. I noticed that others have forwarded it to you. So I was eagerly awaiting a response from you. Hassan wants her to condemn it publicly. He continues. I took the liberty of reaching out to my contacts at Fox, A, B, C, and a couple of the Detroit news outlets today with the hopes that you would join the Muslim vice chairs to respond to this. We need to ensure our constituents understand that the party will not stand for this and that our party stands for the Constitution, which defends the freedom of religion. So you either join us on air and we all play nice and show what our party stands for or we go on there and talk about how you have sidelined us and that you have yet to condemn any of this rhetoric.

6 (18m 15s):
Hassan says he never heard back from Christina. I went to talk with Hassan and his cousin Ali about their place in the party. If there even is a place in this party for them under Karamo. These are idealistic Republicans who agree with her and what she stands for. They were like exactly what you might think the Republican party would want. Young Muslim guys and the democratic stronghold of Dearborn. Genuinely excited about the potential of bringing Arab Americans into the Republican party. I met them at a business they own a print shop and a cellar.

6 (18m 56s):
No cell phone service, no windows, fluorescent lights, concrete walls and their dog pickles. Where we sat in the back was a big sign up for Hassan's election. He ran for the US house a year ago for Rashida Taleb's seat. Or he tried, I

13 (19m 11s):
Didn't even make it past the primaries. Okay. I was, I spent my entire campaign trying to prove to the Republicans that I was a Republican because of my faith. So it was very fun.

6 (19m 20s):
What is that? What was that like?

13 (19m 23s):
It was very interesting. It was the first time in my life I sat in a meeting where they're talking about anti Sharia law and I'm a Muslim. I, I have, I don't know what Sharia law was. So I'm just sitting there listening to these people talk things about my faith that I don't even believe and how we're getting into politics to over, you know, take it all over and corrupt society and I'm just sitting like I'm a politician running for Congress, sitting in the audience listening to this. And it happened a lot. It happened a lot. That's kind of what led to running for the vice chair roles was kind of, hey it's, this is not right.

6 (20m 1s):
The more people seem to doubt them, the more these guys wanted to prove that they belonged. Like we're family values conservatives too. We're concerned about what our kids are learning in schools too. We think there's big election fraud too. We belong here so much. We actually should be in the leadership of the party. Hassan ran for coalition's. Vice chair Ali ran for administrative vice chair. No one ran against them still on the day of the leadership race. When Karamo was elected chair, one of the people in their own district tried to sabotage them. They

13 (20m 33s):
Wanted to open the floor to nominations because they couldn't let the Muslims run unopposed. And there was ladies outta Macomb and this was like a lot of people have like on record saying like they were going around saying those exact quotes. Yeah, isn't that crazy?

6 (20m 46s):
That's Ali Hassan's cousin, admin vice chair. He's more relaxed than Hassan to back in his seat. He says things started to get weird right before the vote.

17 (20m 56s):
While right before he did that some lady came up to us, I forgot her name, but she was talking to us like, Hey, do you take Jesus Christ as your Lord of Savior? And we're like, bro, what the, that's so off. That's out of pocket first of all. Second of all, you're asking someone that doesn't believe in that. If they wanna believe in it now, like you didn't even build up to it.

6 (21m 17s):
This is just like you walked on to the convention for I Wouldn wanna hire

17 (21m 20s):
Her if I had a sales company and

13 (21m 21s):
She came up to like where our districts are. We were going our districts areas And. I was just rude the way like it took place. Yeah, I was so rude and No, but we had the conversation. I had the conversation with her gladly. And then actually after convention I met up with her and we had another conversation for like an hour. I'm more than willing to entertain that conversation. Yeah. Of how our faiths are very similar or not is I'm not an enemy. We are not enemies the way the media perceives it, but I'll, I'll have that conversation all day. But

6 (21m 43s):
Wait, tell this story though. 'cause like I feel like I'm missing the beginning of the story. So what

13 (21m 47s):
Happened? so we were at convention and doing our rounds. This is the day of the election. So we're talking to everybody, letting 'em know, hey this is our plan, this is what we're doing, we're introducing ourselves, you know, yada yada. And somebody goes up there during open a new business and wants to put it out there like hey we wanna open the floor to have them or change bylaws so we could put people up against 'em, da da. And everybody starts going crazy And

6 (22m 8s):
They say specifically like, because they're Muslim.

13 (22m 11s):
Yeah, they were passing off pamphlets. We learned after the fact that there was pamphlets being passed out by these ladies. Like how are you gonna let their voices? And then just

6 (22m 18s):
To be clear, someone stood up during convention to make a motion that someone could declare their candidacy right then to stop these Muslims from becoming leaders of the party. Still it didn't pass. And these guys ended up as Vice-chairs, they were excited like hey what's my budget line? What's like the credentials to start emailing people as official state party representatives? Let's drive around, set up meetings, do whatever it is this new experimental group of people wants to do to reach out to people. But there were no leadership team meetings. They say no one called them to tell them here's what we want you to do and how to do it. And that they were the ones, Hassan and Ali who set up the first leadership meeting for vice chairs all across the state.

6 (23m 2s):
Christina didn't show up to it then there was the whole Mackinac situation. The guys wanted to help plan it and the bylaws say that the admin vice chair that's Ali is supposed to play a big role in planning it, but they say no one would communicate with them about it. Finally they ended up at a meeting in Lansing with Christina and some of her team where they came away with the message, we don't want people like you leading things with this party and Hassan and Ali's telling this is how the meeting went. Hassan was like, why aren't you advertising? What a diverse leadership we are. You're black, you have three Arab Muslim vice chairs, you have an Indian American district chair.

6 (23m 42s):
You should be talking about that.

13 (23m 44s):
Yeah. All goes back to it's a Judeo-Christian movement and somehow my faith doesn't play a role in that.

6 (23m 52s):
This was said to you explicitly? Yeah,

13 (23m 54s):
Well yeah, along those lines. You want the exact, but yes, along those lines it's like, it's the Judeo-Christian values and, and we're not a part of this plan.

6 (24m 3s):
How did it make you feel?

13 (24m 5s):
I dunno. I'm used to it. I don't care. I'm still gonna do what I think is right and

6 (24m 9s):
You must have been upset, hurt.

13 (24m 12s):
It just bothers you. 'cause it's not like the fed realist papers and the anti-federalists papers were some of the best things I've ever read in my life. And those, those conversations that took place and then you deal with this type of rhetoric and you're like, if, if we're truly talking about the founding fathers, the founding fathers did all of this. So there's freedom of religion. So you could

6 (24m 31s):
Be, Aliya had stepped out and walks back into the room at this point.

17 (24m 34s):
What did you say Hassan? Lemme see.

13 (24m 35s):
No, when we were talking to him about the diversity and why we're not playing it and playing the three oh party

17 (24m 39s):
And they shot down

6 (24m 40s):
And she said she, Christina,

17 (24m 42s):
The country wasn't founded off of Muslim beliefs. It was founded off of Judeo-Christian beliefs. And that's a fact. You can look that up for yourself. And then I'm like, yeah, we understand that, but like let's be more inclusive and word it differently so everyone's included. you know? 'cause we got the most amount of Muslims in America, right? When you're like right there, you know,

13 (25m 5s):
I don't wanna talk about what was said in that conversation, like exactly what was said.

17 (25m 9s):
Yeah, no, I, it's be nice about everything.

6 (25m 12s):
Hassan starts to get annoyed staring down the table at Ali. But

17 (25m 15s):
Yeah, she was, no,

13 (25m 16s):
I'm trying genuinely we're trying to like keep hear our Republican party together. I'm not, this just makes it a lot more, Hey,

17 (25m 22s):
The truth is the truth, man. Once you say something

13 (25m 24s):
The I'm not the truth man. I'm not against the truth. It is just, this caused much more problems. When, it comes out, the wording that was used, it plays the rhetoric than, Hey, we were just told that you guys are not a part of the plan.

17 (25m 36s):
Well, she didn't say that.

6 (25m 38s):
Basically they felt like at the meeting in Lansing that they were being subjected to a different purity test. Not one about who was grassroots enough, but about whether anybody but Christians had a place in Christina Caro's party. I talked to Christina about this and she categorically denied this version of events. She says, of course there's a place for Muslims in her leadership. and she says she did try to include Hassan and Ali, but they were unresponsive. Hassan shared screenshots with me that showed him reaching out to her about Mackinac specifically and getting brushed off. In any case, by the time they got to Mackinac, which they had played no part in putting together, Hassan and Ali were feeling salty.

13 (26m 20s):
We got there and we didn't even, they didn't even make us name tags and that was a statement like, you know, you already know it's

17 (26m 25s):
A statement that was so mean

13 (26m 27s):
That was offensive. And they got mad when we asked where's our name tags? Like, Hey guys, we don't have name tags. And they're like, here. And then they, they gave us like, and whatever. At that point, I'm not gonna lie, I was kinda being petty. They gave us like general admission. I'm like, Hey, we're vice chairs. Like, no, no, no. Can I get a VIP one? Like what are you guys doing? But yeah, we were not involved. I the all I did there to help was during the meeting on Sunday, the the lights guy asked me if he could head out. So I, I told him, yeah, go ahead Lee.

18 (26m 57s):
Nice.

6 (26m 58s):
We're still talking when Hassan's phone rings, it's John Smith, the guy I always talk to about what's happening in the party. The Fyre Festival guy. He's got news. Hey,

18 (27m 8s):
Did you guys see McCarthy today?

13 (27m 11s):
No, I've been doing a six hour long interview. Yeah. Did you

18 (27m 15s):
See, did you see Zoe?

6 (27m 16s):
No, I've been the I've been in the interview too.

18 (27m 20s):
So, so Matt Gates led the charge and they got McCarthy out and voted with the Democrats.

13 (27m 25s):
Oh, they got him out.

6 (27m 26s):
He's out

18 (27m 27s):
First time in history,

6 (27m 29s):
Relatable to these new Michigan Republicans who have a habit of overthrowing first they overthrew their own establishment. Now they're having buyer's remorse over the bet they made on Christina wondering if they should try to remove her too.

18 (27m 43s):
I mean, there's no good time to remove, you know, a leadership role, but if it's outta spite, then I don't, I don't like it. If it's outta principle and it's true to what they're saying, then fuck it. Go for it.

13 (27m 57s):
You know, I kind of, I agree with John there. Like, if, if everything is really as corrupt as they're saying and we get more solid evidence and everything's spread to the light and it looks like what it is, then, you know, I don't, I don't see these efforts as being misguided. Are you talking

6 (28m 12s):
About Christina now or are you talking still talking about McCarthy?

13 (28m 15s):
I was ordering pizza, so I was, I just jumped in pretending I know what we were talking about, to be honest. so we were talking about Christina and McCarthy right now because we're talking

6 (28m 24s):
About, but as far as John Smith personally goes, he buried the lead on this call. Hassan checks his email while we're on the phone.

13 (28m 32s):
John Smith's Rec Resignation Nation, John Smith

18 (28m 38s):
As district chair.

13 (28m 39s):
John, what are you thinking, man? Trying,

6 (28m 43s):
We're trying to understand why you decided to resign

13 (28m 47s):
5 54.

18 (28m 47s):
I can't because I can't afford to play the game anymore.

13 (28m 50s):
What are you gonna

18 (28m 51s):
Expensive hobby,

6 (28m 52s):
What are you gonna do for work?

18 (28m 55s):
Construction work? I'm hiring so I quit because I cannot afford to play, man. It's, this is expensive going across the district, you know, and it's just, it's hard on the bank, man. And be honest with you, I wake up do politics 24 7. So I mean, I need to get off the mindset and get him to work.

13 (29m 14s):
I mean, I'm, I'm right there with you, man. It's, it's,

18 (29m 17s):
I drive a 2000 Saturn with one Fender guys.

13 (29m 21s):
Hey, I mean, I put 90,000 miles on my truck. And I was forced to buy my lease 'cause of this and spent a lot like, I, I promise you I'm in the same boat and it's, but I'm just hoping we, you know, it works. I mean, it

18 (29m 35s):
Doesn't, it doesn't, it doesn't. It's not working out.

6 (29m 42s):
That is an interesting question to me. These leadership roles are volunteer, not paid. Like did the party only work before? Because there were rich people who could afford to do them. How long can the not rich people afford to be in political leadership here? Of all the people to leave now? I'm surprised it's John. you know, he was one of the first people in Michigan to make a show of pushing out the establishment part of this wave of new leaders who ousted their county chairs to create this grassroots state party run by the newbies disconnected from the old guard he walked. So Christina could run. As for Hassan and Ali, they hadn't found the party in especially welcoming place either before or after Christina's takeover.

6 (30m 28s):
But they're gonna keep trying, seeing how hard they're having to fight to be included. It makes me think about how relatively unimportant winning seems to be in post January 6th. Purity politics. Like if the party wanted to win, you could imagine a world where they'd be reaching out to guys like this instead of sidelining them. But instead it seems that this new version of the party is winnowing it down to a relatively small and tainted by compromise group of principled people, not a winning strategy for a political party in Michigan in particular

3 (31m 13s):
Zoe Chase coming up, how to topple a Republican leader. But like somebody said a half century ago, follow the money. It's about to get real. That's in a minute. From Chicago Public Radio. When our program continues, This American Life Ira Glass as this year ends noticing the kind of fights happening among Republicans in the US House of Representatives and around the country. We have this political story that we thought captures something about the state of Republican politics this year from Michigan. We're calling the episode, it wouldn't be make Believe if you'd believe in me. So he Chase picks up where she left off

6 (31m 51s):
The last week of September. The plot to oust Christina heated up when someone in the Michigan GOP sent out a barrage of screenshots to a few reporters. They were of bank statements of the Michigan GOP. It was a little confusing, this collection of random screenshots, but it did seem like the party was almost completely out of money. John Smith got the texts. He didn't see any evidence of this thing. Christina's people said at Mackinac about the money they'd raised. He was depressed

11 (32m 21s):
And they're, they just told us we raised $600,000, which is a lie. They're lying. Is that they're lying. They're lying to everyone,

19 (32m 33s):
I guess. Do you think they're lying because they're like corrupt or do you think they're lying because they're scared?

11 (32m 40s):
I think they're scared. That's what I'm saying. We would be okay with it if they would just open the books. We would help 'em. If we need to raise a hundred, $150,000 this weekend, we would all go out as a united front across the state of Michigan and make it happen. They're choosing to be

19 (33m 2s):
Deceptive. Like you think that if from the very beginning they had said, Hey, we're not going to any of the old donors. We're doing a whole new thing, so we need you guys to fundraise like all the time. Like people would've been, would've gone with that,

11 (33m 23s):
I don't know. But they could've just been honest right from the get go.

19 (33m 28s):
You don't feel bad like leaving people kind of in the middle of this mess.

11 (33m 34s):
No, I can't. I can't. So yeah, I gotta go to work.

6 (33m 37s):
People were getting scared that the party was in no way gonna be able to run next year's elections. There'd be no fundraising, no get out the vote, no coordination of strategy. They were gonna lose control of 2024. And that brings us to Act. Three the Insurrectionists and select again the guy who leaked the bank account. Screenshots. Warren Carpenter was a major Christina supporter at first. Warren helped get Christina elected. He raised money for her Secretary of State campaign. He whipped votes for her chair race and went to talk to him. He runs a landscaping business in the suburbs of Detroit.

6 (34m 17s):
He walked me to the back of his office. This

20 (34m 19s):
Is uncomfortable. Is it? Yeah. I don't like it. You'll get used to it. Like I don't like it. Like I don't wanna do that. You want, you wanna record me? Well, it's radio. That's why

6 (34m 31s):
Warren comes off antagonistic right from the beginning and a little manic. What he's just done leaking documents to the press about Christina. It's a big deal though. How are

20 (34m 41s):
You? You got a lot going on. It's like you didn't read the news or something.

6 (34m 47s):
It's like you didn't read the news or something. He says that morning, the morning we spoke September 29th, Detroit news reporter Craig Moger, an eminently fair and lightning fast journalist, published a writeup of all the documents Warren had sent him. The article begins, the Michigan Republican party had about $35,000 in its bank account in August, according to internal records that flash, new warning signs about the dire state of the GOP's finances. This is followed shortly by a quote from a former state GOP official. These numbers demonstrate that the party isn't just broke but broken. Warren is also extensively quoted in the article, which is a big betrayal of Christina talking to a journalist who in her view is just in league with the establishment trying to take her out.

6 (35m 36s):
Warren says he dabbled in Republican politics before this movement took off, worked on a statewide campaign over 10 years ago, but not much since then until Trump. He loves Trump, called him big daddy and had that school board come to Jesus. So many Republicans did around the Covid protocols, masking and schools kind of thing. He went to January 6th after he thought he saw the election get stolen, says he didn't go inside the Capitol. But he had such an intense experience there that not long after he had a mental breakdown as he puts it, that's when he got involved in his local party. He's one of the newbies who got elected to district chair part of the wave that took over the party this year.

6 (36m 15s):
He'd been part of Christina's inner circle, but now he'd resigned from his position as district chair and was talking smack in the press. So what happened? Well, a few weeks before the Mackinac conference, Warren got on the phone with Christina's chief of staff, Joel Studebaker and the rest of her team, and they were telling him they needed help to pull off the conference. So he looked at their financial situation and he responded with what I now understand to be his typical intensity.

21 (36m 43s):
How much money do you have? How much money do we need? How much money we owed? Who's been paid, right? What's the problem? What do you need? Why am I on the fucking call with you? But like Joel Studebaker didn't know like what the numbers were like, they didn't know any of the numbers for anything. They were literally flying by the fucking seat of their pants shooting from the hip. It was, I mean, it was the most ludicrous thing I've ever heard of in my entire life. Like there was no budgetary schematic they could share with me. And during that initial Friday call, the only thing they had to share was like they almost had the program ready to go to the printer,

6 (37m 13s):
A program with speakers on it. They didn't have the cash to pay for it seemed Warren called Campaign finance experts who looked at what he had and told him to get as far away as possible from this organization. I've looked at Warren's documents and what I saw looked like a broke party spending money way faster than it was taking anything in. I also went over the party's FEC filings, though they haven't filed since July. And all that I looked at, I did see some very unusual accounting, but nothing illegal like Warren alleges.

21 (37m 45s):
So there's only two ways that this could, there's only two things that this could possibly be in my mind. All right? It is either gross negligence incompetence, right? I would describe, I would describe intent and say that it's malicious, and therefore, if it's malicious, then do you have to go to the next conclusion, which is then it's destruction of the party. Now, can you ascribe intent for destruction of the party?

6 (38m 7s):
Warren goes on to float his own version of the sabotage theory. I heard from other people that Christina herself is controlled by some kind of national operation, launched at the Michigan Republican party in order to destroy it.

21 (38m 20s):
Either an operative or it's a Fed, but it's either from the Democratic side or it's from, or it's from, or it's from an agency.

6 (38m 27s):
He's pretty sure it's an I. And then it's not just in Michigan. That would explain why GOPs in Georgia, Arizona, and Idaho are struggling. Someone's sabotaging them. But even if it's not a knock, as someone who helped put Christina in office in the first place, Warren now feels responsible for where she's brought the party. And Warren's a doer. He's also a make amends her. I find that out myself when he calls me and apologizes for yelling at me at one point. Maybe that comes from his years in aa. So Warren has a plan to make things right? Oust, Kristina, Karamo. He has a whole 18 point plan to do it. That Detroit news article was a first step. Now he's whipping votes against her, just like you whipped votes for her at the beginning of the year, trying to make sure he has the numbers.

21 (39m 12s):
You, you, you file for the meeting. When we get the signatures, we're gonna have all the signatures needed to overthrow, okay? So then it just shows them it's over. I want psychologically them to be beat before they even go into this and it's over.

22 (39m 38s):
Okay, everybody, I just wanna get started real quick about why everyone's on the phone call.

6 (39m 46s):
The next time I hear Warren's voice, it's from a Zoom meeting. Someone sent me of state committee members from around Michigan. Warren called the meeting. He has a spreadsheet of the a hundred or so people in the state committee color coded who's with him, who's against him. He's literally counting votes trying to get to that majority, to a Christina.

22 (40m 4s):
Okay? So let's go through this real quick. Everybody in red is in red until they're probably confirmed otherwise. So I need some people to speak up as we go through some of these. I mean, Andy, is there anybody in your district that's not on board with this? Andy, you muted? All right. No,

23 (40m 20s):
They're all we'll go on. All those people are for this.

6 (40m 23s):
That's not Andy, that's John Smith. Despite having quit as district chair, he can't stay away. Warren and John go back and forth on whether or not they have a two thirds majority, or do they only need 50%?

22 (40m 35s):
Listen, if we don't have enough, if we don't have two thirds, we don't call the fucking meeting, right? Nancy Pelosi doesn't bring anything to the floor, doesn't have all the fucking votes either, do I? So, so I mean, that's it right there. You got the two-thirds of call the meeting it, it's over. I'm telling you. So lemme just let, just trust me on this. Please, guys. I know I'm forceful and I'm sorry. I I'm a boss and nobody ever tells me no. And, and that's why I'm not good at this job. That's why I'm not a good district chair. I'm not good at, at, at, at, at collaboration stuff. And, and, and, and, and please don't take my forcefulness for, for trying to beat up on anybody. It's not what I'm trying to do. I'm trying to convince you that, that this is,

23 (41m 13s):
Well, we're at the threshold of 50%. That's what I, that's what I'm telling people when I'm, when, when I'm talking to people is like, do we not move forward? Or where do, where you, where do we get to the point where we have to start having this discussion? So I think we're at that point with 54 people. I mean, that's, that's a significant number.

22 (41m 34s):
That's more than 50%. We are the majority on state committee at this point, without whipping a single fucking person

6 (41m 41s):
Then who shows up in the Zoom, the guy Warren lined up to replace Karamo and guess who it is? Scott Greenley. Yes. Scott Greenley, the guy who ran for chair from the beginning of the story, who wasn't America first enough to get elected in the first place. Remember,

7 (41m 59s):
I'm called establishment. I get called a rhino. That's even worse.

6 (42m 4s):
Now. he makes his pitch to this renegade faction that he should be the choice of the Renegade faction, and he cuts quickly to the chase

7 (42m 12s):
Involved. I think I could probably raise a half million dollars in the first week, couple million by the end of the year, five by March and salvage the cycle with about 10 million in total fundraising. And, and certainly we'd, we'd have the challenge that some people wouldn't like, necessarily everyone who's donating to the party. But I would welcome any and all dollars, you know, within reason. I mean, certainly if Hillary Clinton moved to Michigan and said she wanted to help, I'd be a little suspicious. But short of that, you know, if, if people want to help this party rebuild, they're gonna get an open door, not a closed door.

6 (42m 50s):
Some donors won't come back. Greenley says it's gonna be a hard sales job to go to people who've been demonized. Of course I'll include grassroots, but we all gotta play nice together. Warren interrupts him.

22 (43m 3s):
Hey Scott, I had a, I had a question sent to me. Hey, how can you assure us that John yab will not be running the party?

6 (43m 11s):
John Yab is a powerful political consultant in Michigan. He's been around a political director for the John McCain campaign symbol of the heated establishment,

7 (43m 22s):
Because I'll be the chairman. I mean,

22 (43m 24s):
Real questions, man. This is,

23 (43m 27s):
Hey. Hey, Scott. Hey Scott. Hey Scott. This is John. That would be a real question. you know, you just, you can't, you have a hard time identifying what is grassroots and stuff like that, but that is, that is a legit question.

7 (43m 39s):
Sure. So, so John And I have worked together. John And, I have worked against each other. But you know, unless you guys are electing John Yabba chair, he is, he is not running the party. I guarantee that. I'll take his input. When. it makes sense. That's for sure. I don't wanna close anybody out, but I I I don't wanna manage by exclusion. I think we need everybody pushing in the same direction. But I will, I will make the decisions the chairman needs to make And I elect you elect me, and I'll be running the party

6 (44m 13s):
Greenley from another era. It sounds like talking to consultants, raising money, being inclusive, bringing people in, instead of cutting people out, the call ends shortly after that. They don't quite have the numbers to ask Christina. I can't tell how Greenly went over John's not sure either. He and Warren chat afterwards.

23 (44m 34s):
Hey, Warren.

22 (44m 36s):
What up Johnny?

23 (44m 37s):
All right. I put, I put Tom in the waiting room. What, what do you, so what'd you think? Yeah, that's what I was gonna ask you.

22 (44m 45s):
Like, here's the thing. I

6 (44m 47s):
Don't, Warren's moving a million miles an hour matter. He's like, Scott, or not. I know. I'm gonna get the votes to remove her. John's still stuck on whether the grassroots will stomach him.

23 (44m 57s):
I think he's an honest guy.

22 (44m 59s):
Yeah, he's super honest, dude.

23 (45m 1s):
You know what I mean? Like, if he says he's gonna do it, I think he will do that.

22 (45m 5s):
Yeah. Like, 'cause 'cause that's, there's a reason he's the only guy that's still allowed in all the rooms. Dude. All the rest of these consultants are like ghosts. They're like vapers. You don't ever see him anywhere. They're always lurking. Like he's out in the open every single day, like hosting on Facebook about how to be a good leader. you know what I mean? Yeah.

23 (45m 25s):
I'm wondering if Scott Greenley is salvageable to the, to the delegates. And. I think he very well could be be honestly, it's, you know, it's not like we got that many options though.

22 (45m 39s):
Hey, listen, my wife do thing, my man brother, love brother, goodnight.

6 (45m 52s):
Act Four, Karamo fights back.

24 (45m 55s):
There's been a coup attempt to overthrow Christina and they've got a bunch of people that were lying. Okay? You wanna know some of the lies that were out there? Sure. She, oh, Christina went to meet Donald Trump for dinner and she came in a swimsuit and a coverup.

6 (46m 14s):
This is Darlene, Christina supporter. I'm at a pasta dinner called by Christina's chief of staff in a swanky ballroom in the suburbs of Detroit. The invitation, read, join MI, GOP, chief of staff, Joel Studebaker, as he offers a rebuttal to claims of impropriety. In other words, spaghetti, meatballs, a PowerPoint for dessert. Darlene's here for it.

24 (46m 38s):
All right. They're kind of manipulating things to where it looks one way. Christina has not drawn a paycheck since July. Alright.

6 (46m 49s):
You can see that? Yeah. In the, in some of the filing

24 (46m 51s):
First, first of all, they said, oh, Mackinac is not gonna happen. She's skimming the money. The speakers aren't getting paid. It's gonna end, end up in the parking lot, you know, don't go refund your ticket. Mackinac was a huge success. Christina went back to what a conference should be. God, country and party and family. She went there. She didn't go with all the dinner parties, all the different drinking parties. She went to bring us all back to our roots. She is grassroots and she's grassroots all the way. She is not selling out.

24 (47m 31s):
She never has and she never will.

6 (47m 41s):
Downstairs in the room, literally just below this one, in another giant ballroom is Warren sitting alone with his laptop, a projector behind him. He booked the room at 3:00 PM today after he heard he was gonna be barred from attending Christina's rebuttal event. He's wearing a red baseball cap that says Trump was right and he's totally by himself. Oh my gosh. I was like, is it him? How you doing, man? Yeah, what's going in? Hi, so,

21 (48m 12s):
So

6 (48m 13s):
What's up? I don't know. Does it feel weird? Everybody upstairs and you down here? No. Really?

21 (48m 17s):
Swear to God, dude.

6 (48m 18s):
Okay. Yeah, because I know like you lost all your friends and like, that must feel hard.

21 (48m 23s):
Oh, are we doing the thing right now? I'm always recording. Okay. Well, I don't know man. You come over with the microphone. I'm not sure.

6 (48m 28s):
Sorry. Okay. Yes. Yeah, it's taking Warren longer than he expected to execute his 18 point plan, because as he says, he's a vote counter and he hasn't been getting enough people on the board. And last week he got invited to a meeting of the Macomb County GOP to present his documents and make his case.

21 (48m 46s):
You

6 (48m 46s):
Know, he put up a rapid fire slideshow for the delegates to convince them that Christina was a fraud. And honestly, he sounded slightly unhinged. Here's some Facebook video of that event. Guess

25 (48m 58s):
What? There's more. There's another one. Wait, there's four more. Over a hundred thousand dollars that can't be accounted for in deposits. This is your party.

6 (49m 11s):
But he's raised enough heat that Kara's people decided they wanna respond publicly to his claims. Hence the pasta dinner and counter presentation

21 (49m 19s):
For

6 (49m 20s):
Warren's part. He's here to respond to the response to his claims and try to keep his cool.

21 (49m 25s):
My whole, my whole motive coming tonight was, I'm gonna be calm, right? And I was gonna answer people's questions if they had concerns. And are

26 (49m 33s):
You, are you in the middle of an

6 (49m 34s):
Interview? Someone comes in and asks, are you in the middle of an interview?

21 (49m 37s):
Yeah, she's talking to me just real quick, but do you wanna talk? I

26 (49m 40s):
Just wanted, I want bring her up to speed on what's going on down here. Can you give her kind of

21 (49m 43s):
An overview? Yep. So anybody that wants to ask anything, after all this is done, they come down here and I'll open up documents, show 'em whatever they wanna see the same

26 (49m 52s):
Documents you put

21 (49m 53s):
At the line. I got everything. I got everything that I got. If you had pasta, we stay, then it would, I get it. I get it.

26 (49m 59s):
Spend their money.

6 (49m 60s):
All You got some curious customers in the ballroom upstairs, it's maybe 75 people. Christina's chief of staff, Jules Studebaker, is presenting a rebuttal to Warren's crazed Facebook video. He opens with a Bible verse, but then gets surprisingly detailed shows snapshots of bank statements after complaining that the previous administration left them with little money and some debt, which is true. There's this admission.

27 (50m 26s):
Here's reality. Fundraising's been a challenge. It's been very difficult. A lot of these things, you know, that they're just realities and we need help. We do need help, but you gotta be able to work together and there's no way we're gonna do that. If we keep giving liberal media interviews and if we keep walking through demonization schemes, it's just not gonna happen. so we need help and we need to do it the right way. We need to collaborate.

8 (50m 57s):
Yes, we do. Yes,

27 (50m 59s):
Amen.

6 (50m 59s):
When Christina finally speaks, she talks about finances, about Mackinac, and she's frank. She admits they would've liked to make a lot more money off the conference. They're still in debt for $110,000. Speakers fee. For Jim Kiesel, for example, she reminds everyone that the reason they elected her is they wanted to run the party differently, not raise $20 million and run right through it like previous chairs.

8 (51m 26s):
So where did all this $20 million go? What was it spent on? Oh, I know a bunch of consultants who did nothing. So that's what it was spent on. I mean, where did all the money gets? People brag about how much money they raised, so they go pay off their friends. So that has what's been going on for Decades. So yes, we disrupted that system. So, you know,

6 (51m 47s):
She spoke for 20 minutes, no pauses or hesitations, mostly informing the crowd of mostly supporters that she was the victim of a deep state conspiracy to take her out.

8 (51m 57s):
Again, this whole deep state thing is very real. It is very real because their goal is that if these people don't succeed, not just here, but also places like Colorado, Kansas, Georgia, where you have a bunch of America first chairs. The goal for these people is if these people fail, then the grassroots person won't dare run for chair. And a lot of the people who may or may not wanna support a grassroots person for chair wouldn't do it because it's like, last time it was so horrible, we could never do it again.

6 (52m 21s):
She called out the people she sees as covert, deep state operatives within the current party. When she describes them, they sound a lot like Warren.

8 (52m 30s):
And the thing about it is, these people, they pretend to be Patriots like us, so they can get close to us. They pretend to be one of us, so we will trust them.

6 (52m 39s):
Moving on next to Ali and Hassan, not by name.

8 (52m 42s):
I mean, I had two vice chairs falsely accused me of being a bigot against Muslims.

6 (52m 46s):
But she insists her administration hasn't ever lied or committed any crimes. The fighting itself, she says, is a tactic to keep her from succeeding. The fighting, however, immediately continues. Back downstairs in Warren's room, a guy from Christina's team Swaggers in to confront Warren. His name's Ken Byer. he said he'd received a text from Warren saying, I'm coming after you. Warren says, it just said, I'm coming. And there's this big wild westy face off between them that,

21 (53m 19s):
Hey, Ken, you gonna ask some questions?

27 (53m 22s):
Oh, just take it. You're gonna

21 (53m 24s):
Threaten me. Do it to my face. Oh, I'd never threatened you at all. Get outta here. Listen, I can have you removed for trespassing just as you were about to have me removed. I didn't threaten you. And. I never threaten you wasn't. But if you wanna threaten me, do it to my face. I, I, I, I, I never threatened you, Ken. You seem like you're upset. Goodnight.

6 (53m 38s):
Now a little crowd gathers watching them go at it. Cross the beast and ballroom.

21 (53m 42s):
Come on, Ken, look at all the baby. Come on baby. Come on. What about your felony right here? Yeah, I, I got a felony for drunk driving. It was years ago. See this right here? That's a negative. In the account. There's the $15,000 that came in.

6 (53m 57s):
This is the problem with the coup Warrens trying to pull off. It's the problem that was baked into Kara's version of the party from the start. This group of people all agree on some basic issues. Election fraud, less immigration, no gun control. Abortion is murder. Don't tell me when to wear a mask. Don't tell my children what to read. And the rent is too damn high. But what's brought them all together running this party is their lack of trust in any kind of political leadership. They're a very suspicious, conspiracy minded group, and that's how they look at everything, including each other. Of course, they can't agree on who the real enemy is of the cause They all actually believe in.

6 (54m 37s):
You

21 (54m 38s):
Lied. You're a liar. Smiling. Keep smiling. You're a liar.

6 (54m 49s):
Right? Before this story went to air this week, Kristina Karamo finally agreed to an interview. I reached her while she was taking a morning walk. I asked her about her year in power. I told her it seemed like for all her good intentions, the parties ended up in disarray, broke and ineffective without the money it needs to win elections. Next year,

8 (55m 11s):
I will say, I reject your premise that my tenure should be defined by funds. See, that's the problem. Your premise is off. Okay? Your premise is that I should be defined by money because the only people that benefit from the premise you're positing is the political class. The only people that benefits are the elitist, And. I was elected to reject that premise.

6 (55m 33s):
This is what it's like to talk to her about this. She wouldn't say what she'd do to get the party out of this mess. She wouldn't even acknowledge that they're in a mess.

8 (55m 42s):
We're not bankrupt. That's not true. So the thing about it is we are operating at a positive cash flow. So yes, it have I hit the financial goals that I would like. Not at the level I would like, but we are on our way.

6 (55m 57s):
Well, that's why. I guess I'm asking just for any example, is there a fundraiser in which you tapped into businesses that had been sitting on the sidelines, like you talked about in your campaign? Of course. Or something like that? Of course. Just any, any specific you can give me.

8 (56m 11s):
Yeah, yeah. Well, I for one, yes, but I don't know what specific you're looking for. 'cause my question is, why are you so dogmatic on the notion of people who wanna push the elitist narrative? That's my question because I've answered it multiple times. But my question to you, Zoe, why are you so aggressive on that notion? I'm not going to go through the nuts and bolts of every person who's given a dollar or $10,000 or $20,000 to our administration. I've answered, we're operating at a positive cash flow

6 (56m 41s):
As of last month. They're bringing in more than they're spending, not because of any fundraising. They got a payout from a national committee, but they're still deep in debt. And, I could not get any specifics from Christina on how the party would bring in the millions. They've always used to run elections for 2024. She pointed out again and again, that was the wrong question. They've cut costs. They do have a plan to run a ground game. And once that happens, I can judge how that goes. Over the last few months, I've watched our circle of supporters get smaller. District chairs have resigned. Members of the budget committee resigned, upset about the finances and that the leadership wouldn't listen to them. For all intents and purposes, the party split in two.

6 (57m 24s):
What does it feel like to have all these people who you guys were on the same team to begin with, you know, calling for your ouster, or coming after you making all these claims? Like, what does it feel like to you? What's the experience like for you?

8 (57m 41s):
It's betrayal. I don't like it. But when you realize, again, the fact that our country is corrupt is the way it is. 'cause most of the people involved in politics are dishonest. you know, people don't lie and try to demean my character. I mean, so be it. I just keep going.

6 (58m 1s):
I was talking to John Smith who was there when this all began. I said, seems like the year of Kristina Karamo has been a year of failure. The party stopped doing most of the basic normal stuff any political party has to do, and they're limping as they go into this major presidential election year. And John was like, no, don't write your story. Like it was a waste. It wasn't a waste. Things are gonna continue to be different now. We did something. We changed the party. We put a non billionaire in charge here. This is just a first step, maybe a misstep, but we're not gonna just disappear.

3 (58m 53s):
Zoe Chase

28 (59m 4s):
How it looks like the party is over. The last glass of wine has been Pour

3 (59m 20s):
Well Program was edited today by Laura Chesky, produced by Chris Benderev, with help from James Bennett ii. The people who put together today's show include fia, Ben and Michael Comte, Bethel Hte, Cassie Howey, Valerie Kipnis, Seth Flintstone, Nelson, Catherine, Ray Mano, naia Raymond, Ryan Ru with Ship. Ike s Raja. Christopher Alala. Marisa Robertson Texter. Nancy Updike and Diane Wu. Our managing editors, Sarah Abdurahman, our senior editors, David Kestenbaum, are executive editors, Emmanuel Barry. Special thanks today to Isaac Aof, Sana, Craig Ger, Jonathan Ting, Simon Schuster, Laura Gibbons, Karamo Levine, Jason Rowe, Jamie Rose, Zoe Clark, Colin Jackson, Tyler Scott, Dustin Dwyer, Todd Gilman, glance slash away. Kelly Sackett Romie, Jonathan Chapman and Laurie sbo.

3 (1h 0m 0s):
Our website, This American Life dot org, where you can stream our archive over over 800 episodes for absolutely free This American Life is delivered to public radio stations by PRX, the Public Radio Exchange. Thanks as always. To our program's Co-founder, Mr. Tori Maia. you know, I invited him to Hanukkah this year. I don't know, I think it's the last time he with the candles. He's great at the Dral game, but he just kept saying the same thing over and over. Do

17 (1h 0m 25s):
You take Jesus Christ as your Lord of Savior?

3 (1h 0m 27s):
I'm hourglass. Back next week with more stories of This American Life,

28 (1h 0m 32s):
The man. I stopped playing our music. Our friends

1 (1h 0m 43s):
Aren't around anymore.

28 (1h 0m 49s):
Or it looks like the party is.

3 (1h 1m 2s):
This is Ira Glass of This, American, Life And. I'm talking fast to get in shape for this week's program. You see, every week in our program, we bring you three to four stories on some theme, blah, blah, blah. you know the drill. But this week we throw that slow pace, thoughtful nonsense to the wind and bring you 20 yes, 20 stories in 60 minutes. Frankly, we wanted to do 30 stories in 60 minutes, but at this point we don't know if we can pull that off. I guarantee you at least 20 to see how many we speed through. Listen

0 (1h 1m 34s):
Across America, BP supports more than 275,000 jobs to keep energy flowing. Jobs like expanding capacity for biodiesel in Washington state and reducing operational emissions in the Gulf of Mexico. Its and not, or see what doing both means for energy nationwide at bp.com/investing in America.