0 (0s):
Apple card is the credit card created by Apple. You earn 3% daily cash back when you use it to buy the new Apple Vision Pro or any products at Apple. And you can automatically grow your daily cash at 4.5% annual percentage yield when you open a high yield savings account. Apply for Apple Card in the wallet app on iPhone Apple card's, subject to credit approval savings available to Apple card owners. Subject to eligibility Apple card and savings by Goldman Sachs. Bank, USA, salt Lake City Branch member FDIC terms apply.

1 (29s):
A. quick warning. there are curse words that are un beeped in today's episode of the show. If, you prefer a beeped version? you can find that at our website, this american life org. The question started right after Tobin and his husband moved to the Bay Area and got a house together. Tobin's family was pretty excited about this. They all lived within an hour and they brought meals over for weeks. His mom bought them shades. But this question popped up

2 (54s):
And the first time I noticed it happening, it was with my aunt, kind outta nowhere. She was like, oh, which one of you is handy? Is one of you handy And? I was just like, why does she want to know that? Like why does she care?

1 (1m 7s):
Yeah. Yeah.

2 (1m 8s):
And I had, I had like feelings about it, And I couldn't tell why. And then it just kind of kept happening with other family members. Like they would be talking about like, oh, you guys moved in together into this house. So one, which one of you is handy? And on its face, it was kind of like a, oh, we know when you're in a house there's a lot of things to fix and a lot of things to do. But it felt like there was something else happening there and it kind of bothered me.

1 (1m 36s):
Something else there. Like there was a question underneath the question that they were trying to get the answer to.

2 (1m 42s):
Yeah, like there was something else trying to be figured out. And, I don't know. Like the more I thought about it and why I was having feelings about it, it was kind of like this weird aha moment of like, oh, I think you're asking who the man is in my relationship.

1 (2m 4s):
Right? You're both men. Yes. But one of you is really the man.

2 (2m 9s):
Yes. Yeah.

1 (2m 16s):
Then when Tobin would tell them that it was his husband who was the handy one, he felt like he was just giving them ammunition to put a picture of their relationship that just bugged him. Like they were being sized up into familiar categories would of views as the husband would of views as the wife.

2 (2m 32s):
Like it was weird because when they, whenever they would ask it, I could feel myself getting defensive. I didn't want to give them that picture. And, I think part of my defensiveness came from, I think, well, oh man. Not to take us in a whole other direction, but if you spend any amount of time in the closet,

1 (2m 52s):
In the closet for Dobin, that means middle school and high school.

2 (2m 55s):
I think you're afraid of being found out at all as being effeminate in any way. Yeah. Like I know for me, I was very conscious of if anyone could detect quote unquote, you know, feminine traits about me and then figure out if I was gay or not. And so I do think that like myself and a lot of gay men like carry that around for like kind of the rest of your life. And so I think that comes up in having to answer a question like this also.

1 (3m 27s):
Yeah. Yeah. It's a, it's funny 'cause it's like this innocent question and then, and then really like underneath it it's like there's a bomb waiting to go off actually. Like there's so many feelings.

2 (3m 37s):
Yeah. It feels like it hits on a thing, at least for me, that I spent a lot of time as a kid running from or spent a lot of time trying to not have to answer.

1 (3m 49s):
Yeah.

2 (3m 50s):
Like how masculine am I and is somebody else more masculine than I am And like I do wanna make room for the idea that they could have meant none of this. Like absolutely none of this.

1 (4m 11s):
Did you address it directly with any of them?

2 (4m 13s):
No. 'cause that would be bonkers to say, oh, you asked me who's handy? You're trying to say I'm not a man like that. The leap in logic to say that outright is so huge.

1 (4m 30s):
What a dare night program. Questions that contain other secret questions inside of them. Questions that are wolves in sheep's clothing in all kinds of situations that we've all been in, in dating, in talking to strangers, in dealing with the saddest things that ever happened to us and more. I'm WB. e z Chicago. It's This. American Life. I'm Eric Glass. Stay with us. Okay. So instead of four different acts today what we're gonna do is we're gonna present the show as four questions. Here's the first one question. Tell me how you feel about this.

1 (5m 10s):
So Tobin, who you just heard is one of the editors here at our show. And really the idea for today's program came out of a conversation that happened at a staff meeting. And what happened is we all got talking about these kind of question traps where it seems like somebody's asking about one thing, but the question is a proxy for trying to figure out something else. Tobin will explain more.

2 (5m 30s):
The conversation was about the questions people ask on first dates, the kind that force who someone really is out into the open, maybe even without them realizing one such question I didn't even know is a thing. But a few of my coworkers said that for black women of a certain age, it's having a kind of renaissance. Emmanuel, our executive editor, asks it this way.

4 (5m 51s):
What do you think of Beyonc? It was a question that I found myself trying to ask basically a lot on first dates because it told me a lot about them. It's a question that tells you one in some ways how they feel about a power of a black woman. It's a question that tells you how they think about black women in general, kind of a little bit to me. And that like, if you feel the need to like put her down or like say something negative about her it, it's like a real turnoff. It's like a red flag. Basically.

5 (6m 25s):
They describe her singing style as kind of like cata walling or like ugh, she's just screeching

2 (6m 30s):
Bim. Another producer has also asked this question on many a date.

5 (6m 34s):
All these words that sort of like have double meanings if you're a woman and also if you're a black woman, I'm just like, all right, so you don't like loud people. Okay, okay. That means you don't like me.

2 (6m 46s):
Could you tell me about some like specific times that you've asked the Beyonc question and what the guy's response was and what it told you?

4 (6m 55s):
First date, bar date, pretty standard. Beyonc actually came on in the bar in the background was like, oh, what do you think about Beyonc? And he was like, I don't, I don't understand what the big deal is about her. Like you like women act like they're in a cult or something. And it's like, they seem like crazy. I was like, oh well I really like her and like I don't really think I'm in a cult.

2 (7m 19s):
Emmanuel watched the guy through all the reasons Beyonc is in fact pretty great, but the guy didn't budge.

4 (7m 25s):
No, he, he did not, didn't care to and maybe didn't care to hear me talk in general is what it seemed like. So

2 (7m 35s):
They did not go out again because, well, you could say he was unapologetic when he fucked up the night. That's a plan, a Beyonc lyric by the way. Sorry. Couldn't help myself. Anyway, BA Parker, who's also been on the show, she said for her, it doesn't even have to be Beyonc any, well-known black woman does the trick.

6 (7m 54s):
She save Sena Williams and they say, oh, I think she's overrated. Or if you say Jada Pinkett like, well she's too masculine or she's ruining Bill Smith's life. She's controlling him. Or how, how do you feel about Lizzo? Like, ah, she used to cover her ass. I bring up like a black female celebrity to get their opinion on them and it usually becomes like the litmus test for how they would treat me as a partner, how they would view me as a person.

2 (8m 25s):
But the Beyonc question she agrees is the most potent because the answer can really tell you if you should be crazy in love or putting everything he owns in a box to the left again. I am so sorry. The thing about a bunch of people using the same trick though is that eventually people in this case men might catch on. Are you aware of the Beyonc question?

7 (8m 47s):
Yes, I am aware of the Beyonc question.

2 (8m 50s):
Emmanuel Joce producer and man at the show. Have you experienced this?

7 (8m 55s):
Yeah, I've experienced it many times.

2 (8m 58s):
He told me about a date he was on where they started talking about musicals and the movie version of Dream Girls came up and thinking he was just answering a question about the movie. Manuel was honest, he said Beyonc was just okay in that he didn't realize he was answering the wrong question.

7 (9m 15s):
And I was just digging a hole. She was just like, the only answer to being asked about Beyonc is that yes, she's fantastic, she's amazing, nobody can do what she does.

2 (9m 28s):
It was only later that he learned from another guy friend why he as a black man should really only answer one way.

7 (9m 34s):
I remember my friend saying basically that is the question black women will ask you to determine if you really like black women. Once it was explained to me like I totally understood where people were coming from. And I understood what the purpose of that question was.

2 (9m 51s):
In some cases, the Beyonc question is like an agreed upon farce where both parties know they're talking in Code. Parker was recently on a date, she mentioned Beyonce's Black is King film

6 (10m 3s):
And he was like, like he he, he was like, I don't know what to say here. 'cause I I, I like this, I like talking to you, but I don't love Beyonc And I don't want you to be mad at me.

2 (10m 22s):
He knew it was a Trap.

6 (10m 24s):
He did know it was a Trap.

2 (10m 27s):
And how did you respond?

6 (10m 30s):
I was like, like what are you talking about? What are you? And he was like, like I know girls do this. And I was like, you're, you're right. And I. I'm sorry, I apologize. And I was like, well I guess that's kind of the right answer. so we had a couple more dates.

2 (10m 55s):
Of course there are other questions like the Beyonc one little traps we set on dates hoping the other person doesn't fall in or hoping they do. One that made the news recently, which may or may not be true, according to an old classmate, governor Ron DeSantis would ask dates if they liked Thai food, but, and this is key, he'd pronounce it thigh food and if they said No it's Thai food, not thigh, he ditched the date. It was his way of testing if they correct him, which he did not want. I don't know. It sounds like a test. I'd be grateful to fail, but that's just me. Anyway, I talked to a bunch of other people about their question traps. Kelsey in Minnesota asked her dates about their favorite Tom Hanks movies.

2 (11m 38s):
She said he's been in so many movies across multiple genres. The answer is kind of like a personality test. Toy story for example, tells her there's a stunted adolescence thing going on. Sarah in Tampa said when she started to get a weird vibe, she'd ask, what's your favorite conspiracy theory? Most people would keep their answers lighthearted, but occasionally someone would go all in. One guy started talking all about Nazi separatists. She's Jewish. So you know, kind of a deal breaker. But not all question traps are subtle. There's another genre that I was surprised anyone fell for. The kind of question that seemed covered in yellow caution tape and a sign that said this is a Trap.

2 (12m 19s):
This one comes from Vivian in Iowa. After her husband died in 2016, she found herself back out on the dating scene. Her question on a date was, if your ex walked by right now with her new partner, what would you do? Which was her way of asking a much more interesting question. How fucked up was your last relationship?

8 (12m 38s):
First time I did it, the guy said I would punch him and give her a piece of my mind.

2 (12m 43s):
Oh my God.

9 (12m 46s):
Exactly.

8 (12m 49s):
We had just sat down to have a nice lunch on a Sunday afternoon. So I'm like, do I get up and go or, and that's when the story came out of how he was still about a couple weeks away from going to court for finalizing his divorce and it had been a 38 year relationship and he found out she had been cheating for most of the time in a completely serendipitous way. She gave him an old phone and that she had wiped. And when she downloaded the cloud, it downloaded into his phone too. And that's how he found out,

2 (13m 26s):
Wow, you got so much information from that one question.

8 (13m 30s):
You gotta make it efficient so why draw it out?

2 (13m 36s):
I was shocked. This question is so clearly, how bad was your last breakup? Do I have anything to worry about? But something about turning it into a fun little icebreaker. I mean these guys open up

8 (13m 47s):
Up. There was another guy that said, well we would have to leave immediately 'cause I don't wanna see them. And my reply was, you don't want to see them or you don't want them to see us.

2 (13m 57s):
And what was his response?

8 (14m 0s):
Oh, he never answered directly, but I knew then that he was still in a relationship

2 (14m 9s):
With her now husband. They met at a widow support group. He talked about his loneliness and being a single parent, they kind of just got each other and she knew the question, what would you do if your ex showed up would not be right for this nice guy who had just lost his wife? She wasn't gonna ask that. The last person I talked to was Jessica. She teaches ESL classes in Atlanta. What's your go-to question?

10 (14m 40s):
Do you believe in ghosts?

2 (14m 42s):
Ghosts? I bet you didn't see that one coming. Did you? Do you believe in ghosts? Here's how Jessica says it works.

10 (14m 49s):
There is no one right answer it. It just matters that you and your partner have the same answer essentially at its core. Your mind's kind of working a similar way.

2 (14m 59s):
Was there ever a time that you asked the ghost question, the person answered differently than you and you went ahead and dated that person anyway And how did that go?

10 (15m 12s):
Yeah, yeah. I was engaged before I married my husband now. And the ghost question really should have been my get the fuck out moment.

2 (15m 24s):
Really?

10 (15m 25s):
Yeah.

2 (15m 27s):
Her answer to the question is, I don't really believe in ghosts, but if there was evidence to the contrary, I could be convinced. I'm open to changing my mind.

10 (15m 35s):
And his response was, no And, there is no information that you could give me to change my mind. And, I just, I don't see why anyone would really think that

2 (15m 46s):
At the time. She didn't think much about the difference in their answers, but then she got to know 'em better. Other things would come up.

10 (15m 54s):
And I was frustrated about the fact that like everything with you is so black and white. Like not everything is black and white, sometimes they're gray. And then I kind of thought back to his answer to this question.

2 (16m 7s):
His rigidity was one of the big things that broke them up. Now she tells everyone she knows if you're seeing someone new, ask them the ghost question, it could save you a lot of time. The thing about any Trap of course, is there are ways to sidestep it. Disarm it, and then the person who laid the Trap has to decide what to do. Emmanuel had to make such a decision.

4 (16m 34s):
Ironically enough, my current boyfriend had no idea who Beyonc was. Who's the only person who had that response.

2 (16m 41s):
What did that tell you?

4 (16m 42s):
That he just needed like some education. He's older and he's not from this country and like doesn't listen to music really. And like by the second date, he had read the entire Wikipedia page for me and he knew Beyonce's birthday and that she was married to Jay-Z and he knew about the elevator fight.

2 (17m 2s):
Yeah. So he listened to your opinion. Yeah,

4 (17m 5s):
It ended up being a green flag. Now I talk to him about Beyonc all the time. And, I don't necessarily think he's like, he's not going out to like Beyonc concerts or anything, but he understands how important she is and how important she is to me and lets me rant about her. So that's all you ever really want, right?

2 (17m 22s):
It is. All I think anyone wants is someone you don't feel like you have to set a Trap for someone who you can look at them and say, you're everything I need and more. It's written all over your face, baby. I can feel your halo. Pray it won't fade away. Sorry, I'm gonna stop now.

1 (17m 50s):
Tobin Lo is an editor on our program. Question two, how old are your kids? So there's a particular piece of small talk that happens all the time that for some people is like the most normal thing in the world and for others is a super delicate minefield. This story that you're about to hear is about a couple for whom it is a minefield and how one day a question like this comes up and it goes completely differently from how it's ever gone before. For them in a spectacularly wild way, you'll hear what I'm talking about. Chris Bender of tells the story.

11 (18m 23s):
Stacey Silberman is the real estate agent in Southern California and she's well suited to the job because she's excellent at making conversation with strangers about anything. But for the past six and a half years, there's been this classic genre of Get to know you banter. That's become a lot more complicated for her and her husband Michael. And that's questions about their children.

12 (18m 44s):
Yes, all the time. Talking to people, getting introductions, it's always asking about our kids. How many kids do you have? Blah blah blah. How old are they?

11 (18m 53s):
The answers to these questions are complicated for Stacey because their older child, max died in 2017.

13 (19m 0s):
So it has been six and a half years because I have a.tattoo for every six months.

11 (19m 5s):
This is Stacey's husband, Michael Max's dad. He's a CPA straight laced kind of guy. For the most part.

13 (19m 13s):
Max always wanted us to get tattoos and we never did And I feel like I

11 (19m 16s):
Heard he had some, he had some tattoo.

13 (19m 17s):
He, he had a wonderful sleeve and lots of tattoos. But so I'm covered in tattoos and my right arm is an entire memorial for Maxie. I've got the kids tattooed up here on my right shoulder. So

11 (19m 30s):
Did you have tattoos before he

13 (19m 32s):
Died? Never. Never. But you know, it's tattoos are very interesting thing. It's, it's, it's, it's it less than the least I can do, but it does help me through the pain and tattooing really how I see it from my perspective is just socially acceptable. Cutting.

11 (19m 50s):
Max was a funny kid, always loved playing pranks, who by 15 was struggling with drug addiction going in and out of treatment. He overdosed when he was 25 in his parents' house. And after he died for a while, Michael and Stacey were around friends and family who knew what had happened. So nobody asked those, do you have kids? Sort of questions. But then Stacey traveled to a conference in Albuquerque. She was sitting down for lunch next to a couple friendly blonde woman and her husband. They began asking Stacey where she was from and what she did. And then finally those questions,

12 (20m 25s):
Do you have kids? How old are they? And the woman was, you know, kind of southern, very sweet, very bubbly. And when people are like that with me, you know, I'm pretty open. And so I felt like being authentic. And I told her, you know, one of my children died of an overdose two years ago and now I have one.

11 (20m 49s):
This did not go over well.

12 (20m 51s):
This woman and her husband. It, it really upset them. They couldn't, they just couldn't handle the conversation. They just saw this major pity face with the open mouth and the, oh, okay.

11 (21m 6s):
And does the conversation with them kind of stall out at that point. And then they kind of

12 (21m 10s):
Totally stall out, go. They never talk to me again.

11 (21m 13s):
Of course, over time this happened again and again, strangers would ask them these sorts of questions and when they'd answer, it'd suck all the air out of the room, which made Michael especially uncomfortable. He never liked sharing this stuff with strangers. He's more of a private person. But together, he and Stacey came up with a strategy for how to handle things when

13 (21m 33s):
We're, we're out and about and the question comes up, we, we sort of look at each other just a little, you know, imperceptively. So, so nobody could really pick up what's going on. And then usually Stacey will answer however she answers And. I support her unreservedly.

12 (21m 49s):
A lot of the times I actually lie, we have two kids or this is their Ages. Talk to you later and keep it short and sweet because sometimes the white lie is better for that person 'cause they're at a party, they're out having fun and they definitely don't wanna hear about your dead child

11 (22m 9s):
And so on. They went answering some questions about their kids and bobbing and weaving around others for six and a half years until this one day last November when they got themselves into a situation that was very different from many that they'd been in before and very public. One thing to know about Stacey and Michael is they both spend a lot of their time working at a recovery center for people struggling with addiction and sometimes they hang out with the other staff and clients there.

12 (22m 41s):
And so I saw that they were going to a show at the Hollywood Improv where Sarah Silverman was performing And. I'm like, oh my god, I love Sarah Silverman. I want to go, I wanna go And. I said when we got there, go, I wanna sit front row center, I wanna get heckled. I wanted, I wanna be right under Sarah Silverman. I want her to like heckle me if possible. Or me, I guess we heckle them. I don't know, I just wanted to be a part of it.

11 (23m 5s):
They get seats front row center. But before Sarah Silverman came on stage that night at the Hollywood Improv, there was this opener there named Adam Ray, early forties wearing a Mariner's cap. And he's got this backing band drums, keyboard backup singers. And he ends his set with a song about how all his friends with kids are miserable and boring now

3 (23m 28s):
Of my friends. They,

11 (23m 51s):
But then the song shifts. Adam Ray says, or sings that he and his wife are still deciding about having kids and suddenly he turns to the crowd, wants to find someone with kids who can make an argument for having them. Adam starts in the front row with a guy, a few seats away from Stacey and Michael, do

14 (24m 8s):
You have kids? No. Hell yeah.

13 (24m 13s):
So the minute the word kids came up, I went on high alert. And I just had a feeling. Oh my God, we're sitting in the front row. Is he gonna come to us?

14 (24m 23s):
Do you have kids? Fuck no, somebody stick to this script.

13 (24m 30s):
So I'm, I'm nervous 'cause I don't know what I'm gonna say. I dunno how we're gonna deal with it. And remember, we're in a comedy club and even though Stacey And I subconsciously communicate with one another, we can't do that here in this venue. I look at each other and get an idea of, you know, what are you thinking? What are you thinking without talking? So I'm there sort of in a desert waiting. And then I saw him coming to me, of course. So he comes to me, you know, do you have any kids? Do

14 (24m 57s):
You have kids?

13 (24m 59s):
Damn right

14 (24m 60s):
At you. That's what I'm talking about.

11 (25m 3s):
Pretty assertive. For the guy who doesn't like talking about this,

13 (25m 7s):
I was thinking about, what are you fucking, you don't have kids and you're, you're probably like, shut the fuck up and get out. Right? you know? So there probably was a little attitude perhaps you think, and I figured that would be it.

11 (25m 23s):
But the comedian's not done with him.

14 (25m 25s):
How many kids do you have? Can you help change our minds today? Whatever you say about the come. How many you have you have, you have two

11 (25m 47s):
And he's still not done

14 (25m 50s):
Two, which one is your favorite? Because there's always one that you're like, you can go back inside your mouth tall. Which, which one do you want more than the other? They never really probably not hear. So you can save. So you can save Which one? You forgot the birthday. Yo, you wouldn't mind if they took the bus to Irv tonight. First of all, how old are your kids?

13 (26m 29s):
So he finally comes down to me with a microphone. How old are your kids? And that's where I was having difficulty calculating. 'cause nobody asks me how old they are typically. So the first thing that went through my mind was, well, Sabrina's 26. And by that time, time I was fucked because there was no time to figure out, okay, fuck. So Max is 31. That didn't happen.

11 (26m 49s):
While Michael's thinking, Adam, the comedian keeps holding the microphone waiting. This dad is taking too long to answer. And then finally,

14 (26m 58s):
Oh my God, you don't know. Wait a second. You're bringing down the energy of the show with your lack of knowledge of your kids.

12 (27m 8s):
I felt protective over him in that moment. Like that's a loaded question and that's why he can't answer you.

11 (27m 14s):
Then the comic turns to Stacey, here's

14 (27m 16s):
A mom. Mom. How old are the kids? Mom? Mom, do you know if you have kids? Dad doesn't know. Dad doesn't know how old his children are.

12 (27m 27s):
And then I thought to myself, oh, now I've gotta tell the truth. And and so in a split second, very impulsive moment, I said, I'm sorry to tell you this, but one of our kids is actually dead. I'm sorry to tell you, but one is actually dead.

14 (27m 48s):
What the fuck? Oh, oh, what the fuck, right? Taking a sip of my ca

11 (28m 11s):
On stage. No one quite knows what to do. One of the backup singers puts her hands over her face. The keyboard player just shakes his head like, no.

12 (28m 22s):
And then I realized like, uhoh, I just screwed the show.

14 (28m 26s):
Oh well, I'm so sorry. Wow. Alright. The song has taken a turn.

11 (28m 42s):
This moment for the comedian seems pretty insurmountable, right? Like what could he possibly do to save a set after that? I called him up Adam Ray, and he said he considered changing the subject subject but chose not to.

14 (28m 56s):
The song is, well, don't have kiss, have kids. Okay, so that's what I'm looking for. so we can end this song on Higher Note than we are right now.

11 (29m 11s):
And finally, it's actually Stacey who saves the day. She motions for Adam, the comedian, and he bends down and points his mic at her and then she says,

12 (29m 20s):
I'm dead son. This

14 (29m 21s):
Is hilarious.

12 (29m 23s):
I said, our dead son would think this was hilarious. That's

14 (29m 26s):
The best compliment I've ever received. Yeah, yeah. Yes.

12 (29m 37s):
It wasn't a lie at all. Our dead son would've thought this was hilarious. He would've been like, oh my god. Of course my mom stepped in a big pile of shit.

11 (29m 49s):
Then Adam gets an idea.

14 (29m 51s):
What's the name of your son who's passed on? His name was Max's Max right now up Max right now. Up Max. Right, right, right. You guys are amazing. Thank you so much. On

11 (30m 32s):
The video of Adam said, actually made the rounds on TikTok and Instagram afterward, Stacey says she read every last comment, all these people rejoicing for and remembering her son.

12 (30m 42s):
I've listened to that thing like a hundred times, I think as I keep enjoying it.

13 (30m 47s):
I mean it was like, it was incredible. It just was an incredible moment of time.

11 (30m 53s):
Lots of people have asked them questions, putting them in this complicated spot, but this time in front of all those people that ended with a room full of strangers cheering for Max this time is their favorite.

1 (31m 18s):
Chris Pender is one of the producers on our show Coming up a question about a 400 year old play and the personal question underneath that question, it's in minute Chicago public radio when a program continues.

0 (31m 34s):
Hey, it's Anna Martin from the New York Times And. I'm here to tell you about something for New York Times news subscribers called New York Times Audio, an app where you can get the latest in news culture cooking and more. It has exclusive shows, storytelling from serial productions and This American, Life Sports from the Athletic and narrated articles from the Times and Beyond New York Times audio. Download the app at ny times.com/audio app

1 (32m 6s):
This American Life myra Glass. Today's program, The Question Trap. What we're talking about today is those questions that can seem benevolent, innocent, harmless, innocuous, could not hurt a fly, but underneath the really asking something else or quietly making a point about something else. We've arrived at question three of our program. Question three, how's your mom? so we spotted this. Next thing we wanna play you in an academic journal. It was originally a paper in medical anthropology quarterly written by an anthropologist named Janelle Taylor who adapted it to read here on the radio. This one question that Janelle Taylor's writing about it kept showing up all the time in her personal life and she says, as an anthropologist, she knows when lots of people are asking the same question over and over.

1 (32m 54s):
It means something. and she wrote this essay to think through what is underneath that question.

15 (33m 1s):
My mother is living with progressive dementia because I'm reading these words on the radio. I can't hear your response, but I'm listening for the question that as I've learned, always comes everyone almost without exception response with some version of the same question. Does she recognize you? There are variants, of course. Does she still know who you are? But does she still know your name? However it may be phrased. The question is always whether my mother recognizes me, meaning can she recite the facts of who I am, what my name is, and how I'm related to her?

15 (33m 43s):
When everyone keeps asking me, does she recognize you? I find myself thinking that is the wrong question. I believe the question really is or should be. Do you? Do we recognize her as a person who's still here? Does she recognize you? The weirdness of the question becomes more obvious. If you think about what would be required to answer it. Let's say I ask my mother, what's my name? Who am I? How old am I? How do we know each other?

15 (34m 24s):
Testing her that way. What does it prove? What does it actually accomplish? I read a book by a journalist named Lauren Kessler. She wrote about how she would correct her own mother when her mother called her by the wrong name. Every time she would visit her mother, she'd take framed photos from the dresser and point to them and quiz her mother. you know who this is, don't you, mom? Of course she didn't. Kessler writes, so I told her again and again, each visit who is who and then quizzed again, thinking back on this, now I am appalled at my insensitivity. What did I think I was doing?

15 (35m 5s):
I managed to accomplish only two things. I made myself miserable. And I made my mother irritable. I don't need my mother to tell me my name or how I'm related to her. I already know these things. And I know that she has dementia, so why then would I make a point of asking her these questions that I know she can't possibly answer? It seems rude or just mean I can't bring myself to do it. I guess you could say that my mother raised me better than that.

15 (35m 46s):
Does she recognize you? I'm not so convinced that the inability to remember names necessarily means that a person with dementia can't recognize or care about other people, but very often it does mean that other people stop recognizing and caring about them. My mother was close to lots of people, but only one friend remains present in her life. Every month or two, Eli Davis drives an hour and a half from her home to Seattle to visit mom, bringing treats and hugs and her always cheerful self. I love her dearly for it.

15 (36m 26s):
And, I wonder, where are the others? Where are the couples with whom my parents socialized? The women with whom mom spent hours and hours on the phone all through my childhood? This shouldn't surprise me as much as it has. Maybe it's not fair to expect friends to step up even close family drop off. Friendships in America are not usually expected to survive dementia. Friendships are often more like pleasure crafts than life rafts not built to brave the really rough waters.

15 (37m 6s):
Does she recognize you? When people ask me whether my mother still recognizes me, they're often expressing concern for me, asking me how I'm bearing up under the burden of suffering that a dementia must place on me, and they're quite ready to hear about my burdens and my suffering. What they find harder to hear I think, is that being around my mother is not a nightmare or a horror. It's not like any of that. Here's what it is. In a cafe, as we share a scone, mom, And, I, make what passes for conversation. I've learned to ask only the sort of question that doesn't require any specific information to answer.

15 (37m 49s):
So things going okay with you these days? How's my favorite mom doing you doing all right? I tell her funny little stories about my kids. Sometimes we leave through a magazine looking at the pictures and commenting on them. Sometimes we look out the window, And, I, make general observations that require no specific response. Looks like spring is coming. Look at those leaves coming out on the trees that guy's hair is really curly with each exchange. Mom smiles at me beaming affectionately and that familiar slightly conspiratorial way as if we're both in on the same joke, So our conversations go nowhere, but it doesn't matter what we say really or whether we said it before or whether it's accurate or interesting or even comprehensible.

15 (38m 43s):
The exchange is the point. Mom, And I are playing catch with touches, smiles and gestures as well as words lobbying them back and forth to each other in slow, easy, underhand arcs. The fact that she drops the ball more and more often doesn't stop the game from being enjoyable. It's a way of being together. Does she recognize you? She may not recognize me in a narrowly cognitive sense, but my mom does recognize me as someone who's there with her, someone familiar perhaps, and she doesn't need to have all the details sorted out in order to care for me, the impulse to care, the habit of caring.

15 (39m 31s):
These are things that run deep in my mother. Someone who for most of her life was very engaged in caring for other people, her children, her, her husband, her grandchildren, her friends. Even some of the behavioral quirk that my mom has developed make sense to me in those terms as expressions of care. Here's an example. People with dementia often engage in repetitive behaviors and mom is no exception. When I take her out to a cafe, I usually get a cup of black coffee for myself and order a cup of hot chocolate for her not too hot. And don't forget the whipped cream on top. As we drink them, she checks constantly to see whether my cup and hers are even whether the liquids have been drunk down to the same level.

15 (40m 17s):
And if not, she'll hurry up and drink more to catch up, or I'll stop and wait for me. Or if we share a cookie, she's concerned to make sure that the halves be the same size and that we eat them at the same rate. I think keeping track of whether our drinks and cookies are even comes naturally to my mother. A woman who has always had to carefully divide quite limited resources first with her own brothers, and later among her four children, she's cared about such details. All her life and caring about them was also a way in which she cared for other people. Mom also does still take care of me in some small but important ways.

15 (41m 0s):
One time a little more than a year ago, I stopped by the assisted living facility where she was living at the end of a very busy day and an especially hectic week. I had stayed up very late the night before trying to finish grading student papers, then spent the whole day teaching and in meetings I went with her up to her room. I turned on the TV and we sat down together on the couch. I was exhausted. I leaned back and yawned mom patted my hand and said to me, you're tired. Just go ahead and sleep. You can just lay down right here. And so I sat there next to my mom holding her hand, feeling her warmth against me all along one side of my body, And I leaned my head on her shoulder and slept.

15 (41m 58s):
Does she recognize you? For a while after we first moved my mother into an assisted living facility, she often said that she wanted to go home. I understood this to mean that she wanted to move back to the house where she had lived for 40 years until my father's death, the house in which I grew up. Usually I responded with my own mild version of reality orientation, explaining as gently as possible that that house was all empty and cold now and nobody was there to keep her company or help her do stuff. So it was probably better to stay here. One time though, I asked her a question instead, you mean home to the house up in Edmonds?

15 (42m 43s):
No, on the farm. She answered. You go down with her raised arm. She traced out the curve of a long ago road. For the first few years of her life, my mother had lived on a small farm in southern Idaho before her father moved the family to Seattle during World War II to seek work on the docks. They're inside there. She added who I asked my mom and my dad, my mother's in her seventies. Her parents are not waiting for her inside an Idaho farmhouse. You could use that evidence to draw a clear line between us.

15 (43m 24s):
Me here on the side of reality, competence, personhood recognition. Her over there on the side of delusion, incapacity, not quite fully human, But what she was longing for was her childhood home. She missed her mom and dad. She was trying in her own way to hold onto them just as I was trying against the odds to hold onto her. Our predicament is exactly the same.

1 (44m 8s):
Janelle Taylor, she's a professor at the University of Toronto teaching medical anthropology. Her mom, Charlene Taylor, died in 2019. Janelle is collecting this essay and others about to mention into a book. You can find a link to the original academic article that you wrote at our website At four. Can I help you? Okay. Here's one last example of a question that is another question. Larking behind it. Question goes like this. If Matthew scored an average of 15 points per basketball game and played 24 games in one season, how many points did he score in the season? That's a question from the S-H-S-A-T, which is a standardized test given to middle school students in New York City.

1 (44m 52s):
A high score on the S-H-S-A-T will get you into one of the eight top public schools in the city. Wonderful schools. A low score will keep you in the regular public school system where your school may be assigned by lottery. So the question lurk behind that math question is, are you good enough? Are you good enough to go to the best schools and maybe from there to the best colleges and from there to all the advantages you get from that kind of education, including a higher income, maybe a better job, all the sorts of stuff, kind of a big scary chasm opening up in the earth behind that innocent little math problem.

17 (45m 31s):
In 2017 for

1 (45m 32s):
Five years, Mylo kremer tutored kids who wanted to leap over that chasm and into those eight elite high schools. At first, it made Mylo feel good

17 (45m 41s):
Because I thought I was helping children. And I only gradually came to understand that I was really just a fucked up cog in a larger fucked up system.

1 (45m 51s):
This recording is from a one person show that Milo did this fall about the kids they tutored. I worry a little that it's gonna be hard to get across over the radio. What's so special about this show? Most of it is songs. Songs about the kids that Milo tutored, these very funny and heartbreaking portraits of these middle school and high school kids and Maya's relationship to them. Like for example, the boy who takes a lot of pleasure denouncing God and the Democrats,

17 (46m 16s):
Jason 16, and he proudly identifies as libertarian. He's a 16-year-old libertarian. I'm kind of afraid of him.

1 (46m 34s):
Milo is not a great singer. They would tell you that themself or a scope musician, but they've written songs in secrets since they were the age that these kids are that they're writing about, and there's just something in the intentional of roughness and sincerity of what they're doing. It kind of matches the rawness of these kids and their feelings and of Milo's reactions to them. When a girl from Queens named Dana, who's better at math than Milo and probably should be a scientist or engineer someday, tells Milo that if she does end up in college, she wants to study theater. Milo who's broke and struggling and wanting to do theater sings,

17 (47m 11s):
I wanna tell her not to. I wanna tell her not to. You cannot study theater. You have to study math. You're good at math, you're failing math. You wanna study theater. Theater doesn't matter. There's a pandemic.

1 (47m 28s):
Glad said. The songs in the show are about the kids' anxieties about school and this test and all the pressure they feel from their parents, and they're about Milo trying to figure out not just how to teach them, but what they possibly could say to comfort them. Faith, for example, is a terrible reader.

17 (47m 44s):
Faith says, I think I'm stupid. I can't read. I guess I'm stupid. I get bees. I must be stupid. I say, I don't think you're stupid. Faith repeats. I'm sure I'm stupid. If you think I'm smart, please prove it. I tell her, intelligence is un and different and ever individual. Faith just looks at me and says, no. I say yes. She says no. She says, no, no, no. Now I say, Hey, when I was your H, my mom, hi. All my report cards from me.

17 (48m 27s):
When I asked her what my grades were, she always told me, you're right where you should be. You're right where you should be.

1 (48m 43s):
A writer show. Today is about questions and to close out the show, I'm just gonna put you one more thing. This is one full song from Milo's show about a question that a student faced. It's an essay question

17 (48m 55s):
Dvia has to respond to. The question is Shakespeare's, oh, hello, racist. In a five paragraph essay for her white teacher by Monday, and she says, just tell me the answer please. I have so much homework this week. I need to get this done as fast as possible. Is Othello racist yes or no? I'm like, have you read the play? She is like, yes. And I watched the Lawrence Fishburne movie. I'm like, great. So what do you think? She is like, I don't know. I'm 15.

17 (49m 35s):
I'm afraid to say the wrong thing. I'm like, same. This stuff is hard to talk about, but you've gotta trust yourself even though you've also gotta constantly question and interrogate yourself. Either way, you've gotta try. You've gotta try. You've gotta try, try, try, try, try. I'm desperate to do a good job. DIA's. Indian American mom can hear us in the next room. I do not know what to do. Divya looks at the assignment rubric to see how she'll be graded. She needs a clear, defensible thesis followed by three unique body paragraphs.

17 (50m 19s):
I can tell she's overwhelmed. I say, remember, grades don't matter. Divya learning can't be measured. Just trust how you feel. You did. She says, maybe grades don't matter if you're rich, but in my family, grades are so important. I think I thought at first that Divya didn't have the words to talk about the play in any nuanced way, but now I start to think that her understanding is deeper than my own, and she might never talk to me about Othello honestly and shouldn't have to.

17 (50m 59s):
Finally, I decide she just wants me to provide her with some easy answer to satisfy her teacher and get her through the semester unscathed. So I'm like, okay, your teacher is either looking for an essay that's like, yes, Othello is very racist. The story of the play is there's this super professionally and romantically successful black man. All of these white guys are jealous of and cannot handle. That tension is resolved when the white guys tricked Othello into murdering his wife, thereby turning him into the brutish stereotype they wanted him to be.

17 (51m 43s):
All along that the title role was performed in blackface four centuries, underscores this. Moreover, that's a good, that's kind of a transition word, Divya. Moreover, IE. My next body paragraph will be about moreover, Des Whiteness in contrast is repeatedly presented as innately good, innocent, and desirable. That's one essay you could write that would get an A. The other essay you could write that would also get an A goes No, Othello is not super racist. Othello is a flawed attempt at anti-racism in that it's Shakespeare's only play to center a dynamic black protagonist.

17 (52m 23s):
The play was banned in apartheid South Africa for depicting an interracial relationship. Moreover, the play's most prejudice characters are always presented as either stupid Rodrigo or evil yago. It would be a mistake to conflate the perspectives of these characters with the meanings of the work as a whole. Either of those essays would get a's divya, but what your teacher's reductive, yes or no prompt does not allow for is an essay. That's like what I think, I think, which is something like Othello is a product and reflection of another culture. Elizabeth in England, 400 years old, written at a time when race was just being invented as a system of power. The play later became a cultural export of the British Empire, which colonized black and brown people around the world.

17 (53m 8s):
The play remains a bestseller of the Shakespeare industrial complex. In other words, Divya, Othello and racism are so indelibly linked that the question is Othello racist seems to confuse both what racism is and what artworks are. In my opinion, what's really racist divya is that we are required to read Othello for the billionth time that it's on the curriculum at your Brooklyn Public high school. Even though the play is boring, when we could be reading any number of contemporary black playwrights, DVIA respond, don't hate me, but I kind of liked reading.

17 (53m 58s):
Oh, hello. The story is really crazy and the language is really pretty.

1 (54m 14s):
Milo Kramer in the One Person Show school pictures book order to Playwrights Horizons in New York. To hear more songs for the show or to book them to come to your town, go to milo kramer.com. That's Kramer with a c Milo kramer.com.

19 (54m 35s):
I got I And I speak. you know my voice small and when I'm walking down the street, I never smile at because I want,

1 (54m 59s):
Our program was produced today by Zoe Chase. The people who put together today's show include Jen Bonds, Sean Cole, Michael Comte, Bethel, hti, Haja, Katherine Raimondo, stone, Nelson, Safi Riddle, Lily Sullivan, France Swanson, Chris oga, Marissa Robertson, text, Matt Tierney, Nancy Updike, Julie Whitaker, and Diane Woo, our managing editor, Sara Durman, our senior editors, David Kestenbaum. Our executive editor is Emmanuel Barry. Original music for the comedian story by Ryan Ruy, who also helped mix the show. Special thanks today to Lauren Kessler. Her book is Finding G Life in the Land of Alzheimer's. Also, thanks to Dahlia, Walt, Michael Rosenthal, Diana Taylor, William, Mike Taylor, pat Taylor, David Johnson, Rachel Jackson, Tom O'Keefe, and Jolie Myers. Our website, This American Life dot org.

1 (55m 41s):
You can stream our archive of over 800 episodes for absolutely free This American. Life is delivered to public radio stations by PRX, the public radio exchange. Thanks as always. To our programs Co-founder, Mr. Joey Malatia. you know, he kind of hurt my feelings this morning, ran into into each other. He asked, how am I doing? I started to answer. Then he was like,

3 (56m 7s):
Who

1 (56m 13s):
I am, Eric Glass. Back next week, there's more stories of This, American Life.

20 (56m 37s):
Hi, max. I wanted to share something with you. I wanted to tell you how grateful I am and how you've embraced your sobriety since day one. I'm grateful for how you changed your life. I'm grateful for the love you have for me. I'm grateful for you love, mom,

21 (56m 52s):
If your loved one is still struggling with addiction, you might not feel like you'll ever get to grateful, but we can show you how at Karen, we've helped families overcome addiction for 70 years. So if your loved one is ready for something different, visit ca RO n.org/lost.