ADP (1s):
Support for This. American life comes from a DP. Say you're in hr. Then suddenly a solar flare adds an extra hour to each day. Worker productivity could go up, but so would the need for office supplies, personnel hours, toilet paper and allergy friendly snacks. That's a lot for you to figure out. Figuring out a lot. And anything else business related is what a DP does best. That's because a DP designs forward thinking solutions to help businesses keep up. From HR to payroll, A DP helps your business get ready for the next anything. A DP Always designing for people.

0 (39s):
A, quick warning. There are curse words that are un beeped in today's episode of the show. If, you prefer a beeped version? you can find that at our website. This American Life dot

1 (50s):
Org. WBEZ Chicago. It's This. American Life America. Go.

2 (53s):
Okay, so listen, right now we're gonna be a little bit quiet because we're gonna have a family talk. Are you ready for a family talk? Wait, wait, wait, wait. Dad

1 (1m 2s):
What? Brian LeBaron is dad of a big family, seven kids and all. He mostly grew up in the United States, but his father and most of his family is Mexican. He moved back there A few years ago. Back in November. He gathered everybody together for a Family Meeting outside a patio. Most of the kids were on a long bench owning pillows.

2 (1m 21s):
Lexi thinks that this is an important moment in in in our family and I agree with her.

1 (1m 27s):
Lexi is Lexi Harrison. Cripps the journalist that recorded this meeting. 'cause she knew what some of the kids did not know that Brian was planning to run for a seat in Mexico's House of Representatives.

2 (1m 37s):
What does that mean? I want to work for the government. That's what that means. And since I'm gonna be running, it's gonna be a lot of work for me and I'm gonna be traveling a lot. I'm gonna be away from home a lot. And when we go places, people are gonna want pictures. So maybe you're walking with me and somebody'll take a picture of us. Like we don't know how that famous, how that it's gonna be famous. We don't know exactly what that's gonna be like. Right? But one of the things also is that because of certain things that happen in our family now there's people in our town that may not want to vote for me and it might even cause people to want to be mean to our family.

2 (2m 21s):
Okay? And so we, I want to have a talk mom and I wanted to have a talk with you so that you can be ready.

1 (2m 28s):
Not just ready for the campaign, which is months away, but he's caught his Family Meeting right now in November. 'cause something's come up that's not only gonna affect his candidacy, but everyone in the family in the next few days, what's happened is that Macario, their 17-year-old has just made a big public decoration on Instagram telling the world that he's gay, which in some places would be like whatever. But this family is Mormon living in a tight-knit fundamentalist community in Mexico. Macario and the other kids go to a fundamentalist Mormon school that very much disapproves of homosexuality. Brian figured kids at school might start saying cruel and hateful stuff to Macario and his brothers and sisters Already some classmates were posting pretty awful comments on Instagram.

1 (3m 14s):
Brian wanted all of his children better than me

2 (3m 17s):
To be

1 (3m 17s):
Prepared.

2 (3m 18s):
Okay guys, so guess what? you know how a lot of times we always went to church and we always hear about people that are gonna date and get married.

1 (3m 28s):
Three of the kids listening to this, they're young, these 9-year-old Ariella, 7-year-old Chanel, and 4-year-old Franco. What that means is that before Brian can tell them your brother is gay, he first has to explain gay the whole idea of gayness to these little kids.

2 (3m 43s):
Chanel, this is more for you and Ello, okay? Have you guys ever heard of the term Gay?

3 (3m 51s):
Oh what?

2 (3m 52s):
Gay.

3 (3m 52s):
Oh yeah.

2 (3m 53s):
What does it mean?

3 (3m 55s):
Gaming? Yeah, like people that like to wear necklaces that are like necklace.

2 (4m 0s):
So boys that wear necklaces that are for girls,

1 (4m 3s):
Good guess he tells them that's okay and then launches into his explanation.

2 (4m 6s):
It can be,

1 (4m 7s):
It keeps it simple

2 (4m 8s):
A lot. But when people call say the word gay, usually it means either two boys that like each other, I knew it and maybe even one day want to get married or two girls that like each other or that maybe even want to get married. And somebody who feels that way. Just like I think I look at mom and I think she's beautiful. There can be boys that look at other boys and think they're beautiful. Okay? Does that make sense?

1 (4m 33s):
Yes. All around.

2 (4m 34s):
Okay,

1 (4m 35s):
On to the big reveal.

2 (4m 36s):
Well guess what? Macario he, he thinks that boys are beautiful and he thinks that he wants to fall in love with a boy. Okay? And that's what people call gay. Okay? Now that doesn't mean that something's wrong with Macario. Macario is perfect just the way that he is and we love him and we're always gonna love him.

3 (4m 59s):
But why do they call it gay?

2 (5m 1s):
That's just the name they gave it. Why do they call boys? Boys and girls? Girls? There's just a name for everything.

1 (5m 6s):
I should say the two years ago, this is not how Brian would've talked about being gay. He was raised to believe that it was a choice and sin. But when Meca came out to him, Macca explained that he'd already tried to pray and fast his way out of being gay. And it was impossible. Brian believed him. He changed how he saw all of it. And as he talks about Macario with the family, does that make sense? Bacaro is sitting exactly in between his two little sisters as they go on What gay means? He smiles. It's okay. Like a mystery contestant on an old timey game show whose secret identity was just revealed.

4 (5m 41s):
I didn't really know what was going on.

1 (5m 42s):
And did your dad tell you, okay, here's what we're gonna explain to the kids in this meeting.

4 (5m 48s):
Nope. It was just, I was gonna say I was gay and it literally, it was not very planned out.

1 (5m 56s):
This, of course, in Macca didn he says about good dear his dad say all these things in front of everybody. Next, Brian explained to the little ones in the family. Kids in school might be pretty mean about Meca said, I'll need to be ready.

2 (6m 10s):
When people say, oh, your brother is gay, he's gonna go to the devil. Oh ha ha. I'll say, that's what people would say. Okay, listen, what's not true? She's saying, that'd eaten that Macca's gay. No, that he's gonna go to the devil. So I want you to be ready because little kids can be mean sometimes. No

1 (6m 35s):
Akari tells them about some of the mean things that kids have said at school. There's this one kid,

5 (6m 39s):
Their dad said they can't do anything to legally kick me out of the town, but they can do everything in their power to make it so that I want to leave on my own. And they just only did that and are doing that because I'm gay. That's the only reason. And I know that they're just doing that because they've been like told their whole life that I'm terrible. Anyone is a terrible person if they're gay. So I mean I get where they're coming from. But like When they started just saying shit, I mean started saying stuff about my friends, my friends, and like the people supporting me. And then like you guys, like how that guy said that, he was like, no, we can't blame the devil for this.

5 (7m 20s):
It's their parents' fault. Like they raised him wrong. They like lived in California, Western culture or whatever. When they said that, it just made me so bothered because I'm like, you can like, I don't know, you can get mad at me and you can think that I'm this or that, but like all these people who are supporting you,

1 (7m 38s):
So everybody's on the same page, all prepared Kas feeling great about it.

2 (7m 44s):
I think it's everybody. You, you, you got that right? Okay, I want a hug.

1 (7m 54s):
And when they go to school after this prep, none of the things that Brian prepared them for happened. School made a rule that nobody could talk about. Macario overall, most of the Mormon community continued to treat Macario like they always had. Oh, this was a little sad for 9-year-old Ella who marched into school ready to tussle, defend beloved brother after the Family Meeting.

7 (8m 15s):
She said, well, I walked into class and I just said, hi everybody, how, how's it going? Anything new? It happened yesterday. And they're like, no. And so she said, well how about the day before? No, nothing new. and she said, Hmm, okay. And so she just went on about her day. So I don't know, it didn't seem to phase the younger kids at school. It was more Rio's classmates, you know? I think the teenagers kind of just maybe shocked by it and not understanding exactly what to think.

1 (8m 46s):
In fact, some teenagers set off a pretty frightening array of firecrackers at their house and threw rocks wrapped in pieces of paper with Rio's name written on them, which was scary. Kids and adults posted comments online like, MECA should find a tall tree and a rope should die. Brandon and his wife Wendy took all the kids outta the Mormon school, but the family had been prepped. They understood that people might get mad about Macario and inside the family the Family Meeting set the tone. It was a preemptive strike that made Rios gay us a non-issue, A non-negotiable fact.

7 (9m 21s):
They really have had little questions, not many questions since then. It seemed to really not phase them at all. It was just, okay, you know, that's cool. What are we gonna do tomorrow?

1 (9m 33s):
Can we have a snack? Is there ice cream?

7 (9m 36s):
That's it. Exactly.

1 (9m 39s):
Well, today in our program, the power of a Family Meeting to drop some news like your brother's gay or the classic one, people remember, I guess we're getting a divorce. And then there are the administrative sort of family meetings where parents announced some changes in how we do the dishes around here or take out the garbage or whatever. And everybody's gonna be doing their fair share what a Family Meeting can and cannot accomplish. Especially in families where the kids do not want to go with the parents' plan as a show today, stay with us. Act one.

1 (10m 20s):
A slow decision process that's mostly, but maybe not completely over. Sometimes when there's a family decision, the family can keep talking about it for months on and off in the car, at meals, whenever with everybody weighing in with different points of view. And over the last few months, I've been talking to the parents in one family like that. Back when I first chatted with them in December, I asked the dad and the family how often the topic comes up.

8 (10m 42s):
We are talking about that almost in each minute of the day. And even right now, before you call, we were talking about what we're gonna do.

1 (10m 55s):
This is Latan pinon. What he is talking about with his wife MHA is where are they gonna live next? Their youngest couple in Israel with three kids, nine, 11 and 13 at the time of this conversation. Both educators, he's head of development, building school and a campus for bedwin, nomadic Arab tribes and Mcle.

8 (11m 13s):
I'm an educational counselor. No, no, she's a doctor of education. Okay. She's a doctor of education.

1 (11m 22s):
Huan, why do you feel like you have to jump in and say that?

8 (11m 26s):
Because we can end the conversation without you to know that she is really a doctor.

1 (11m 35s):
Butan is perhaps you can tell somebody who's always quick to speak his mind. Sure of what he thinks. Al more deliberative. They used to have been a kibbutz in Israel kibbutz on the border with Gaza. When Kamas crossed that border on October 7th, like so many families, they hid in the safe room in their house. Dozens of their neighbors were killed. More epi airi than in any kibbutz that day. One in 10 people including Al's parents. And when it was over, they and most everyone else from the kibbutz were relocated to a tourist hotel by the Dead Sea. An hour and a half drive from their old home in the Gaza border.

9 (12m 10s):
The whole kibbutz is here, the hotel is closed just for a kibbutz. Yeah, there is no guests from outside.

8 (12m 17s):
You are talking about something like 1000 people inside the this hotel you have. You have a lot of discussions that just in the lobby

1 (12m 28s):
Discussions about where they're all gonna live next. And December, when we first talked, it was just two months after the attack and each family had to decide would they stay with the community? Would they ever wanna return to the kibbutz? Would they just gone through this traumatic assault?

8 (12m 42s):
It's 1000 people. You have a lot of ideas, you have those people want to stay together, whatever the kibbutz will go. And those who said no,

1 (12m 54s):
Lots of people, especially the older people were sure they wanted to go back and rebuild. People with kids were all over the place and leaving a kibbutz. Quitting kibbutz life is a big deal. A kibbutz is a special kind of tight-knit community. Kibbutz were originally set up as collective farms on socialist principles, and Bayer is still run on the old school socialist ideals. Most kibbutz in Israel have abandoned, like for example, as a member of the kibbutz, you turn over every cent that you earn at your job, your entire paycheck to the collective.

9 (13m 26s):
But the kibbutz gives us everything we need.

1 (13m 30s):
And that means everything. They give you a house to live in, cars, to drive full healthcare, a gym and a swimming pool and a dining hall if you don't wanna cook. And spending money for necessities, but also for fun stuff like family vacations. They cover your kids' school and college children spend all day every day with other kids their age. That's a great way to raise kids. They can roam around, describes what's so nice about KBOs life this way

9 (13m 55s):
You don't have any worries, you know, mortgage or payments. And do you have a very strong community that makes you feel belong to something big?

1 (14m 9s):
I grew up this way on this kibbutz and loved it. Latan moved to ri with her when they first got together. He chased some of the rules at first, but got used to life in this big extended family. Now after October 7th, here he was with all of them at this hotel figuring out what to do next.

8 (14m 27s):
And, you know, it's a hotel, it's a nice place for three days of vacation, but it's not the way of living. you know, to see the smallest one go to sleep at something like midnight and

9 (14m 41s):
You, you don't have a family environment.

1 (14m 46s):
Were in one hotel room. The three kids were cooped up in another, getting on each other's nerves and into each other's hair. It's hard to be a family in that scattered situation. It was hard to supervise the kids. They were gone our day at work. Micha now had a 90 minute commute each way to and from her job. There was school for the kids, but it was a makeshift thing. The kibbutz organized not real school.

8 (15m 9s):
It's more like a baby babysitting

9 (15m 12s):
The challenge, the big challenge is for the older children. They don't wanna go.

1 (15m 18s):
After just a few weeks of this latan started to think this is not good for our children. Maybe we need to get outta here, leave the hotel, leave. Were friends and family behind.

8 (15m 28s):
I, I realized that we are going to stuck here in the Dead Sea for something like six, seven months. It's not a home. Let's do something else. Let's heal our family.

9 (15m 42s):
Latan was, was pushing to look for another place.

1 (15m 47s):
Nika was not into this idea at all of moving away from the hotel, from the other kibbutz members.

9 (15m 53s):
I, I understood why he, he wants to leave, but it was hard for me to live the people I grew up with. These are the people I know all my life. So it was hard for me to understand that I'm leaving them for me. I need to get used to the idea. I need time.

8 (16m 16s):
That's the process with our relationship

9 (16m 20s):
Is password is if I, yeah, just very quickly. Yeah. If

8 (16m 25s):
I'm deciding something after I do my own

9 (16m 28s):
Thing, very quickly I move forward. I, I'm, I'm a slower person. I need time to do things, you know? Yeah.

1 (16m 43s):
So they had to decide if they would move outta the hotel, but there was a bigger question they were gonna have to face someday. Should they move back to their kibbutz near the gossip border like ever. At this point, it's unclear how long the war will drag on. Over 1600 Israelis have died according to the Israeli military and over 29,000 Palestinians. According to the Gaza Ministry of Health. Other Kibbutzniks kibbutz members told me that they would only move back if somehow there were peace at the border or you know, some conceivable path to some peace plan that would seem fair to the Palestinians. So the kibbutzniks wouldn't have to worry about future attacks coming across the border, which in a practical way probably means they won't be moving back anytime soon.

1 (17m 29s):
Ika Lutan try to imagine what it would take for them to return.

9 (17m 33s):
You know, you Lutan was asking me a few days ago, do you wanna go to our home? Can you go back to this house?

8 (17m 43s):
Do we wanna go back to a graveyard that 92 of your kibbutz members, including your father and mother murdered there? Do we want to go back? We, you're gonna cross the places that you know what happened there. The stories will come out in front of your eyes. It's a question.

1 (18m 6s):
Okay? So feel free to say as much or as little about this as you want. I'd like to ask you just a little bit about what happened with your family on October 7th, just so people understand what it is. You'd be going back to

9 (18m 18s):
6:30 AM

8 (18m 21s):
We had normal, unusual, massive misses attack. And when I say unusual, it's, it's not normal to have even one missile, but that was really a massive attack. so we run to the safe room, close the door, and the first thought I had is, okay, it's 6:30 AM we probably will not go back to sleep. Let's turn on the coffee machine.

1 (18m 46s):
For decades, safe rooms have been required in all new Israeli homes reinforced to withstand rocket attacks. See on the kibbutz WhatsApp group that attackers have made it inside the kibbutz, but they assume it's small, maybe five or 10 fighters. And they assume the army will be there soon.

8 (19m 2s):
But minutes after that, when everyone was saying they are here, they're there, they're shooting at my house, they're throwing grenade where And, you know, everyone who is living you understand that they are spread all over the kibbutz and then just close the door and try to, you know, find ropes and things like that in order to tie the handle of the door. Because people were trying to, who were starting to write that they are seeking to open the safe room and taking people outside and shoot them.

1 (19m 31s):
We should explain that the safe rooms are designed for missiles coming in, not for people coming in trying to break into the safe room so they don't lock from the inside.

9 (19m 38s):
And that's

8 (19m 39s):
Exactly, exactly, because that, that's one, you know, huge part of our family story because on, on something like nine 15 Mikhal mothers was writing us in the WhatsApp. On the WhatsApp, there are terrorists near our house and then there are terrorists inside the house. There are throwing uren aids. They are shooting through the safe room door. And

9 (20m 5s):
We didn't understand that my dad was shot while sitting in the safe, in the safe room. The bullets penetrate the door and he, and he was wounded while sitting in the safe room.

1 (20m 20s):
Brother talk to their mom. Then

8 (20m 23s):
He was telling her, mom, be strong. Keep the door tied. The army is on his way. He was lying. There is no army at the kibbutz, but she, that She was a really strong, realistic woman. She was saying to him, no, Yuval, I think this is the last time we are going to talk. Please tell everybody that we love them.

1 (20m 47s):
The last message is on WhatsApp have Alona brothers saying, mom, keep writing all the time. What's happening with you mom? Answer Their mom says, dad was shot. And the tour grenades, they blew up the safe room.

8 (21m 2s):
And at 10 0 4 She was writing on the WhatsApp help help twice. And that's the last word we have. And now, now imagine that we are sitting in our safe room, one minute walking from them can do nothing and realize that we don't have anymore mom or dad from Michal grandfather and grandmother for our children.

1 (21m 28s):
Do you tell the children?

9 (21m 30s):
Yes, they heard, they knew. They kept asking, what about grandpa and grandma? And the only answer I had was, I don't know. I I didn't wanna say something that it's not true. Yeah, so I just told them that, I don't know, it's hard to hear that. I dunno,

1 (21m 52s):
Ante at this point. They realized they needed to do anything they could think of to keep their kids alive.

8 (21m 57s):
But what I had only is a baseball bat. A dog that probably will got killed in the first time they're gonna go and they were hanging under our house.

1 (22m 10s):
They Hamas fighters, it seemed like they were using the storage space downstairs as a small base, keeping weapons there. The family heard explosions and gunfire. The youngest, the boy again, is nine years old.

8 (22m 22s):
And my son in, in a, in a terrified way told us, dad, dad, I'm I'm, I don't want to die here. And we look at him and told everyone, no, no one is gonna die here. We have the dog, the baseball bat, and we are in the second floor. That's our Forrest. And you, all of you are now going write what you're gonna take when we going to be outside, when they gonna rescue us. And they made a list

1 (23m 2s):
And they waited from the morning all through the afternoon and into the night, trying not to make any noise at all. They had no food, no water. Someone had to pee. They did it in a waste basket while everybody looked away. They were there for 19 hours with their kids. What did they do all that time?

8 (23m 21s):
Nothing. They didn't do nothing. We,

9 (23m 24s):
We, we did nothing.

8 (23m 26s):
They watched me and woke me up if I was like falling asleep because I was handling the handle, handle of the door with a baseball bat and what I ever did to, to tight the door with ropes and things like that. They heard the shooting or the explosion or things like that. They just were silenced. They, they were amazing. They understand the situation.

1 (23m 55s):
Finally, the army came at midnight and rescued them when they got to the hotel the next day, of course the kids couldn't just shake this off. Their son, 9-year-old had a full day of whispering in the safe room.

8 (24m 6s):
He is the most, I think the, the fragile one. And he kept whisper three days after that in the hotel. And we just, you know, brought him his drums and his Lego and he started to live again. So it's okay.

1 (24m 35s):
So could they ever go back and live it bei two or three weeks after the attack, Miha went home again the first time to the kibbutz to see what it was like

9 (24m 45s):
Going back was very hard for me when I was there. I just shut myself. So I just saw everything. But I was very, how do you say this word? I don't know, no picket and

8 (24m 59s):
Very cool.

9 (25m 0s):
I was very cool. Yes.

1 (25m 2s):
Like your feelings were shut down.

9 (25m 4s):
Exactly. Yeah. I was there for like 10 minutes. I took some stuff that my daughter asked and just, I, I couldn't stand it. It's not my home. It was so messy and dirty and I, I couldn't stay there. So

1 (25m 22s):
That's interesting. It didn't even seem like your home, it just seemed like some other place.

9 (25m 26s):
No, no, it's not mine.

1 (25m 30s):
Other people I talked to who returned to the kibbutz seem told me that walking into their homes, it was like everything was frozen from when they ran out. Like it was still October 7th, one woman said she felt like She was watching herself in a movie. She felt so distanced from it. One man told me he tries to go back once a week to try to absorb what's happened.

9 (25m 48s):
I, I couldn't even sit on my sofa. I I, I was there just for 10 minutes. I, I couldn't stay in the house.

1 (25m 56s):
So when you think about going back there, what do you think, like going back there to try to live there? How would that work?

9 (26m 3s):
I don't know. I don't know. That's the big question. Some days I, I'm telling to myself, yes, I wanna go back and some days I'm telling, what are you thinking about? This is not a place to live. It's a graveyard. No, no, no. I i it's still not, it's not a decision I can make now I need more time.

1 (26m 32s):
So she went back to the hotel, but they still had to decide where they live right now. Should they leave the hotel and set it on their own In the short run, LATAN definitely wanted to leave. Al did not. And then she saw how badly their oldest daughter I was doing again, I is 13. And the weeks after October 7th, She was the person in the family struggling the most, just skipping school every day and tried to hide it from them. She just stayed in her room all day doing nothing. This was completely unlike her. Micha says before October 7th, she loved going to school when happily never missed a day.

1 (27m 13s):
She was an athlete, came up from volleyball at seven, three nights a week and nights she would hang with her friends. She was busy

9 (27m 19s):
To see her going to sleep very late at night and want to sleep late in the morning. Everything she had is not, it's not happening. No school, no learning, no volleyball. The only thing that left is her friends, which are confused as she is. So they're like going around like a with with no purpose. And this is what bothers us the most. That there is no purpose for them here. They need something to wake up for it in the morning.

9 (28m 2s):
And over here it's too much pain and too much dark.

1 (28m 10s):
Seeing io like this, that's what convinced au like what Thomas Wright, they needed to get away from the hotel. The kids needed that, but where to go Now as they were talking about this, as a couple members of the kibbutz were in a much bigger conversation about leaving the hotel as a group. There was so much damage to their kibbutz. So many homes and buildings set on fire, burned to the ground, bombed hit with grenades and bullets. It would take two or three years to rebuild before they could move back. So they were looking at temporary places that the whole group could relocate to while that happened. And what Tom was one of the kibbutz leaders figuring out where they should go choice came down to two locations.

1 (28m 51s):
And what had decided that wanted to go to a peaceful village called Kedma. The idea is everybody could move there and heal and figure out in a few years whether they would move back to Bay Airi or not. The vote was November 22nd, LATAN side lost by 40 votes. And the place that kibbutz chose and re near Big Air base, that was a place that he and Han did not want to live.

8 (29m 18s):
I knew already. I I knew for sure that she's thinking the same.

9 (29m 23s):
Yeah, I remember he told me, I'm not moving to re and I said, okay.

1 (29m 30s):
And I decided it they were not gonna stay with the kibbutz. They'd strike out on their own. So they talked to their kids about this plan. Aya hated it. She, she didn't wanna speak with me for this story, but her parents say She was angry. One thing she still had from her whole life was her friends who'd just gone through this trauma together. Were still going through it in a way.

8 (29m 53s):
You know, she had two friends that were kidnapped and they returned from Gaza Strip. And, and she have also one friend that She was severely wounded and lost her mother and a bother.

9 (30m 7s):
So one is dead and

8 (30m 8s):
One is dead.

1 (30m 9s):
And and what did she say to you when She was angry about it? What was she saying?

9 (30m 14s):
She was, She was shouting why we have to take her apart of her friends and that we're not thinking about her. It was hard to hear, you know, when you live in the kibbutz, the, the friends are the most important thing. I, I dunno how to express this in words, but we have this connection that you, you cannot find anywhere else because we grew up together. We did everything together. We hang up in the morning, in the afternoon, we, we, we slept together, we ate together, we study together, we did everything together.

9 (30m 56s):
And this is what she have right now and she's gonna lose it. I understand why she's angry. I understand, but I don't want that death will be so present. Yeah, in every way.

1 (31m 16s):
Yeah.

9 (31m 17s):
Yeah. I don't want it.

1 (31m 27s):
The two other kids were good with the idea of them leaving the hotel. The buds told them we can live in a car as long as we're together it's fine. But with Aya, she came back to it over and over.

8 (31m 38s):
It happens all the time. We,

9 (31m 40s):
It, it's every day. Are you sure you wanna go? Are you sure you are not gonna stay?

1 (31m 45s):
Clara explained to Aya that since they really might never move back to bay, it didn't make sense to move to the temporary location with her friends right now and then split with them in three years and start over again. Easier to leave now and an age when she can make new friends. She told Aya that she would drive her back to see her old friends anytime she wants. There's certain things she didn't say to Aya.

9 (32m 7s):
I didn't tell her that. I don't wanna leave in a place that mourning is gonna be a big part of everything.

1 (32m 18s):
Yeah.

9 (32m 20s):
I cannot tell her this.

1 (32m 23s):
Why not?

9 (32m 24s):
I dunno, I don't, I don't know.

1 (32m 27s):
Do you not wanna say that to her because you're scared it'll affect how she sees her friends and their life back in the kibbutz?

9 (32m 34s):
Yes. you know, just, just yesterday they told us that Yoi, her best friend's father were murdered in captivity. So it it's gonna happen all the time.

1 (32m 50s):
The conversation was in January, they were still in the hotel. The plan must move February 1st to a house near a city called Cite God. Maybe a half hour drive from the border. And it's, at this point the family got a lucky break, something they didn't expect.

9 (33m 5s):
And the school she's gonna go to, there is friends that she knows from our area that moved to the same place.

1 (33m 14s):
Oh wow. That's that's really, really fortunate.

9 (33m 17s):
Yes. So it makes her heart more calm. So, and, and these are kids that she knows and, and she's friends of, not from Berry exactly, but just from our area. So she's not opposite anymore as she used to. Today was the first day she went to school and study and open her notebook. Just today after three months

1 (33m 46s):
Maybe Mikal said she finally understands that things are going back to normal. She's gonna have to go to school like normal with other kids who are moving on as moving day approached feelings in the family were all over the place. I was up and down with a lot of down.

9 (34m 12s):
I think our and the, the little kids, they are excited to see the new life. Latan is very excited about this. I I'm not excited. I feel sad leaving the kibbutz even though I decided to do that. It's still sad for me. Yeah. It, it's not, you know, this is our decision of moving, but I didn't chose it. This is what make me so sad. They chose it, they decided it for me.

1 (34m 51s):
They you mean Hamas?

9 (34m 53s):
Yes.

1 (34m 54s):
Yeah.

9 (34m 57s):
And it's hard for me not to have my parents around and not to ask them what they think.

1 (35m 4s):
Yeah.

9 (35m 7s):
And, you know, my mom She was if I would move, she will come and help me clean and help me decide what to do. And now she's not here to do that. So every decision is, she's so present with her, not present. I don't know how to say it. Yeah,

1 (35m 34s):
They moved February 1st and I called one last time a few weeks after that. The kids are in the new schools, the family's running a house, autonomy, cloud, bracing for what it's gonna be like to have their paychecks paid to them directly and living the way you and I do where we have to worry about money and paying bills. But one thing that was different in this last call was that they both seem way more certain that they're never gonna move back to Bay. There's a possibility. Sure. But they both said it's likely they'll never return. I meanwhile was mad all the time. It's very severe. MHA told me worse than before, she asked all the time to be driven back to the hotel to see her friends. She's gone back once a week.

1 (36m 15s):
Al feels like this is one of these parenting choices where she and Goan made the right call to get the family away from the hotel and start a new life that doesn't make it feel any better. Told me she hopes that someday I will understand and even forgive him for it coming up. If you wanna inspire your family at a Family Meeting once a week, every single week after a while, how do you come up with anything original to say that's in a minute? From Chicago public radio. Radio, when our program continues,

Amgen (36m 55s):
Amgen harnesses the best of biology and technology to fight the world's toughest diseases such as cancer, heart disease, asthma, and osteoporosis to help millions of people globally. In a new era of human health, Amgen continues to accelerate the pace of change operating sustainably and drawing upon deep knowledge of science to push beyond what's known today With roots in the biotech revolution, Amgen is one of the world's leading independent biotech companies. And with each decade they reliably deliver powerful new therapies to patients. Learn more@amgen.com.

Indeed (37m 29s):
We're driven by the search for better. But when it comes to hiring, the best way to search for a candidate isn't to search at all. Don't search Match with Indeed, indeed is your matching and hiring platform with over 350 million global monthly visitors according to Indeed data and the matching engine that helps you find quality candidates fast and listers of a show will get a $75 sponsored job credit. To get your jobs more visibility at indeed.com/podcast, just go to indeed.com/podcast right now and support the show by saying you heard about Indeed on this podcast indeed.com/podcast. Terms and conditions apply. Need to hire you need indeed.

New York Times Audio (38m 3s):
Hi, I'm Wendy Doer. I'm an editor with New York Times Audio For me, the magical thing about audio is how it can take you closer to somebody else's life. You feel like you're getting to know somebody that you might never normally meet. And The New York Times audio app is all about bringing those voices to you with new stories to explore every day. Download The New York Times audio app at ny times.com/audio app. You'll need a news subscription to listen.

1 (38m 35s):
This American Life Ira Glass, today's show Family. Meeting stories of people who care about each other or are supposed to care about each other coming together to figure stuff out. And of course these sort of meetings happen in non-family settings. Also, I personally find it revolting when any boss refers to his employees as family. But I acknowledge there is an entire workplace version of this. And of course there's a whole tradition of this in sports high school sports teams where the coach sits everybody down for the big, come to Jesus talk about how things have been going and what needs to happen next. One of our producers, Chris Bender ever was looking around at the stuff that high school coaches say to teams before their big games. We found a lot of let's get out there and crush them also a lot of the underdog version of that.

1 (39m 15s):
Nobody believes in us but I believe in us. And then he ran across this one speech where the coach tried a different approach kind of striking.

13 (39m 23s):
Talk mostly to you seniors. you know, you go back to south,

1 (39m 28s):
This is in the locker room in South Lake, Texas. The team is the Cedar High School, high Longhorns, their coach, Joey McGuire, they're in the playoffs, they lose this game. Season's over. The team is ready to go out onto the field.

13 (39m 40s):
You know, this is a lot different. Go week five, week six, there's always another week seven. This is different. We don't take care of business. That's it ain't coming back in the locker room next week. If you care about each other enough, like we talk about if you care about love each other, like we talk about, you'll have a sense of urgency to get one more week with your family to get one more week with your family. Go find out

1 (40m 11s):
Smart. Right? And we get one more week together, A producer Chris wondered if this was a move that the coach uses a lot. So he caught up Coach McGuire who said yes, he has said this before in other playoffs, but he says it's also a thing he feels.

14 (40m 26s):
I talk all the time about being a family and being more than just a team. And that was such a huge game. I mean there's probably 15,000 people. It's two of the best teams in the nation. These

1 (40m 40s):
Are Texas high school teams working their way up to a state championship. Longhorns were playing the Carroll High School Dragons Coach McGuire says that he knew that if they lost that game they were about to play. It really does feel like something when you lose at the end of the season, that group of people, you're never gonna play together again.

14 (40m 57s):
It's almost like there's a death. Like most people don't talk about that today could be the last game. And so that was my point.

13 (41m 10s):
This ain't a bunch of guys that play football. We just get to play football together because this is a brotherhood, this is a family. And man, whenever you have that or it's tough to destroy because you fight every single moment to keep it. That's what we gotta do tonight. 'cause you win, we get another week together. And that's all I want. That's all I want guys. Everybody with me? Yes sir.

1 (41m 35s):
So the team went out there in front of all those people and how'd it go?

14 (41m 40s):
We ended up getting beat 37, 35 right at the end of the game on a an absolutely horrible call, but we ended up getting beat 37, 35.

1 (41m 50s):
Actually it was a little worse than that. 37, 33 he says in the locker room afterward. It was really hard. But even if you win the state championship, which he has, that's our two 'cause that's the end. No more weeks together. Even if they win, there's that loss. He says he always makes it a point to thank the seniors. That's often hardest for the seniors, you know, leaving the family duck two sealed with a dis.

1 (42m 30s):
So sometimes the reason for a Family Meeting is a conflict that a kid is having at school and then the parent has to decide, did my kid do something wrong or is the problem the other kid? In this next story, the parents have definitely come down On one side of that one, the story unfolds in a series of letters between two moms. It's an excerpt of a short story by Nafisa Thompson Spires. Read first by actors Issa Davis and Erica Alexander

16 (42m 55s):
Tuesday, October 1st, 1991. Hello Monica. I'm sure you remember me from the class field trip to the Getty in September. It has been brought to my attention that your daughter, Fatima may have started a nasty rumor about my christia. I hope to clear this up as we both know how ugly these things can get. It is true that Christa's hamster died recently, but it is absolutely not true that it died at Chrissy's hand and at no time has Chrissy ever put ham bone or any of her previous hamsters in the microwave, dryer or dishwasher.

16 (43m 36s):
What kind of child would make up something like that? It sounds, and I say this respectfully, so I hope you won't be offended like Fatima has had a very hard time getting acclimated here and that's understandable. But I do hope you will deal with her before any such incidents become frequent. Children who start lying young often end up with long time patterns of dishonesty. All best, Dr. Lucinda Johnston, side D licensed therapist, welcome Wagon Westwood Primary School events coordinator Jack and Jill Claremont branch

17 (44m 21s):
Monday, October 7th, 1991. Dear Lucinda,

16 (44m 27s):
I apologize

17 (44m 28s):
For my late reply, but I only found your letter at the bottom of Fatima's backpack when I did my weekly cleaning. Thank you for writing to me. Fatima says she only repeated what Christia herself told her. Many of Fatima's stories about Christia this year and last, which I won't recount here have been disturbing to say the least, but not as disturbing as Kristina's enjoyment of torturing rodents. Fatima has a strong imagination and writes beautiful lyric poetry, which she started reading at age four, but she does not have a history of lying or telling gruesome stories and unlike Christia, she has no history of running off with other girls' shoes while their feet dangle from the monkey bars.

17 (45m 16s):
I appreciate your concerns about Fatima and even though Christia has made it much more difficult for her to find friends at Westwood, Fatima will acclimate soon. She's going to a sleepover at Emily's this weekend. Is Cina going? If so, I hope you will encourage her to play nice. Best, Monica Willis, PhD PS It is true that liars who start young often end up with psychological and social problems of the sort that Christina has demonstrated over the past year. How lucky for you and Christina that she has access to psychotherapy through your practice.

16 (46m 1s):
Dear Monica, I never expected so much defensiveness when I wrote my original letter. Perhaps you misread it. All I wanted to emphasize is that I understand why a girl in Fatima's position and one with her background would make up such stories. It's hard to get attention in a new place. There is probably some petty jealousy going on, but I think we can resolve this. I don't know how you did things at Fatima's old school in Fresno was it? But here we try to help the children work through their problems without getting too involved.

16 (46m 44s):
I suppose you already know and have known all along that Christia will not attend Emily's party, so there's no need for me to encourage her to play nice. You've probably heard that history already, so I won't rehash it, but I will say that it wasn't Chrissy's fault that Emily broke her nose when she fell. Finally, and I say this respectfully, but maybe it would be wise to go through Fatima's backpack every night instead of once in a blue moon. I have heard from more than one parent that it smells like eggs. My best, Dr.

16 (47m 24s):
Lucinda Johnston licensed therapist, author of Train Up a Child,

17 (47m 34s):
Dear Lucinda, or should I say, Dr. Johnston, I'd like to resolve this as much as you would, but that won't happen if all your letters begin and end with backbiting. I'm not of the mind that the only two black children in the Clash should be enemies, nor do I like the attention it draws to them or their parents when they're already in a difficult position. I would think that a black woman of your stature and success would understand how isolating work in school environments like Westwood can be for people like us. I hoped Christia and Fatima could be friends and could support each other in this space, but it's been clear since second grade that you and Christia are not willing to make that work.

17 (48m 19s):
I'm sure Fatima would let Christia into her growing inner circle, even her after school reading club. If Christia would only apologize and behave, jealousy can become a lifelong problem. On that note, I hate to bring this up now, but we were surprised by how poorly Christia behaved when Fatima's poem won over hers last year. I'd like to make sure that we don't end up with a repeat performance of that tantrum when the poetry competition rolls around this year asked with a hard boiled egg. We resolved that last spring and bought Fatima a new backpack and I believe you knew that already.

17 (48m 60s):
Cheers, Dr. Monica Willis PhD, author of Every Voice Counts, helping Children of Color succeed at predominantly White schools.

16 (49m 12s):
Monica, excuse the informal note. I think you're doing both yourself and Fatima a great injustice by continually emphasizing her brilliance over other children. Lots of people skip grades and skipping kindergarten isn't something to brag about. I doubt that the standards at her old school were as rigorous as those at Westwood. What exactly was she advanced at nap time, if you'll recall? Moreover, I was there at the recital where Fatima read her award-winning poem. And while my doctorates, yes, plural may not be in literature, I'm pretty sure hardly anyone would call butterfly pie a work of poetic genius.

16 (49m 54s):
You can't rhyme pie with pie multiple times and call that poetry. You just can't, even if you have the excuse of only being in fourth grade isn't your degree by the way, an EDD, Lucinda.

17 (50m 10s):
Lucinda, I'm not surprised if Fatima's subtle wordplay was lost on you since it's clear reading problems run in the family. Not everyone is suited for literary work. I'm sure you know that from your own writing struggles and the extra effort you had to put behind your research in order for anyone to take it seriously. Isn't there still some kind of issue with your last project in the IRB or is the issue with Dr. Patel's ex-wife? My very best, Monica.

16 (50m 41s):
Monica, I'm not going to dignify most of your comments with a response. This will be my last letter because I can see I'm not going to get anywhere with you. There's some kind of blockage there that I really think you should explore with a licensed professional, especially if you call yourself a professor at one time. I wondered if we were too harsh in recommending that you and your family wait another year before joining our Jack and Jill chapter, but I can see now that we were right. I'm afraid I can never recommend you. For our club, you display a volatile combination of residual ghetto and uppity egress and that will be your undoing.

16 (51m 23s):
If Fatima isn't sincerely, Dr. Lucinda m Johnston licensed therapist, author of Train Up A Child, welcome Wagon Westwood Primary School Events Coordinator, Jack and Jill Claremont, chapter

17 (51m 43s):
Lucinda. I'm not even going to respond to that, but I will say that if someone here is uppity, it's the one of us with two little brats who have run off three au pairs. Who even uses that term if they're not French? And I'm pretty sure your cousin Shaquana isn't. They're nannies. Nannies. And if they're your own relative, then they're just babysitters or bums who need a hookup. This bougieness and the way it keeps you from connecting with your kids is half of your problem. The other half you probably can't fix without medication. Good thing you can write prescriptions. Oh wait, you are not that kind of doctor. How can I be uppity when I've never had any help and started out as a single parent before marrying Jordan?

17 (52m 29s):
If putting myself through school and becoming the highest educated person in my family with no help but Gods makes me uppity, then so be it. We are humble people in spite of our education and finances, and we have more class in our excrement than you have in your whole hamster murdering family. And yes, there is a bit of ghetto still left in me enough to tell you who can finish the fight if it gets to that point. We're never too far from Oakland or the south side. Let's keep it real. Monica.

16 (53m 2s):
Monica, I do believe that was a threat. The Claremont Police Department will not take this lightly and tell Fatima to stop pinning notes to the inside of Chrissy's book bag when she's not looking. Chrissy could injure herself on a dirty safety pin knowing you people and end up with Hepatitis A, B, or C or worse. I've tried to resolve our differences by working directly and exclusively with you and their teacher, Mrs. Watson, but I will have no choice but to contact Principal Lee in addition to the police. If this persists Lucinda

17 (53m 44s):
Lucinda only, you would suggest something so disgusting as intentionally injuring a child with a dirty safety pin. But then again, it was Christia who put that tack on Renee Pott's chair last year and caused her to need a tetanus shot. Perverse minds think alike apparently. Lose my number and address and stop making your kid do your dirty work. M

16 (54m 10s):
Monica, turn blue, turn blue, turn blue, blue, blue. Look, I've written a poem. Perhaps I should send it to Ladybug magazine. Love Lucinda.

17 (54m 29s):
Lucinda, you need Jesus. Do not write me again or I will contact my lawyer. I've asked Mrs. Watson to check Fatima's backpack for correspondence from you and I have made it clear that I do not want further contact from you or Christia. You are not to speak to Fatima either. I'm requesting a meeting with the school and you and your husband so that we can nip this crazy mess in the bud once and for all. Monica, Jack and Jill Claremont chapter

18 (55m 1s):
October 21st, 1991. Dear Mrs. Johnston and Mrs. Willis, it has come to my attention that your respective daughters, Christia and Fatima engage in a brutal fist fight at school. As you know, this behavior violates not only the Westwood code of conduct, but also our core values as a school and is punishable by expulsion. I'm sending this letter as a follow-up to the discussion I had with each of you over the phone. I would like to meet with the two of you and Mrs. Watson, ASAP. My secretary will schedule sincerely, principal Lee Westwood primary and secondary School, October 25th, 1991.

18 (55m 49s):
Dear Dr. Willis, the school's board and I thank you for your generous donation and for agreeing to serve on the Westwood welcome wagon. Given the sharp improvement of your child's behavior, we can agree to rescind our threat of fatima's expulsion from school. The reputation of our school depends on the efforts of involved parents like yourselves. Sincerely, principal Lee,

17 (56m 13s):
November 3rd, 1991. Lucinda, thank you for inviting Fatima to Chrissy's party. She will be happy to attend. And thank you for the lovely fruit basket. You're so bad. It's true. Mrs. Watson looks terrible in that color and yet Principal Lee finds reasons to look. But I won't say anything more in writing. Jordan and I will discuss the Jack and Jill potluck with you when we see you. XO Monica

1 (56m 57s):
Actors Erica Alexander and Issa Davis. Reading an excerpt of Bera with Alvin mallet reading principle Lee, the stories by Nafisa Thompson Spires. You read the full story in her book of short stories. Heads of the color of people,

19 (57m 13s):
Family singing in the kitchen, family running through the yard, family going on vacation, family home, credit card, family, all in this together. Family we're taking a chance. Family black birds have a feather family. You got shoes in down on the way to the city. Laughing in a it ain't always pretty, can drive you insane.

19 (57m 54s):
Got the keys to the kingdom. Oh, season. Your

1 (58m 4s):
Berg was produced today by Sean Cole and bi Mame people who've been together. Today's program include Michael CTE of ebitda, Kornfeld, Bethel Hte, Cassie Halle, Rudy Lee, Seth Glenn, Catherine Raimondo, Nadia Raymond Saki or Riddle Ryan Alyssa Ship. Matt Tierney and Diane Wu. Our managing editors. Sarah Abdurahman, our senior editors. David Kestenbaum. Our executive editor is Emmanuel Berry. Just thanks today to the entire LeBaron family De Fuss, Madeline Tickner, PJ Mark Heath, Vanden, Bosch, and ku sports.com For video of Coach McGuire's speech, This American Life is delivered to public radio stations by PRX, the public radio exchange as as always to our program's. Co-founder Mr. Tory Malatia. you know he was just cast in a local theater production of Annie in the title role.

1 (58m 47s):
Tori actually adlibbed his way through a lot of the show, including Annie's biggest and most famous song which he delivered as

6 (58m 53s):
That's cool. What are we gonna do tomorrow?

1 (58m 56s):
Am hour glass Back next week with more stories of This American Life. Next week on the podcast of This American. Life. For months we've been talking to Yusef. It was the same questions running through his head all the time about the same people.

20 (59m 25s):
What about Hadil? What about him? What about, what about my wife and the children? My mother,

1 (59m 30s):
Yusef is moving his family from one place to another in Gaza. Now his youngest sister is about to have a baby and everybody may need to move again and they're all looking to Yusef to find one more place to live. That thanks the podcast on your local public radio station.