BP (0s):
Across America, BP supports more than 275,000 jobs to keep energy flowing. Jobs like building grid scale, solar in Ohio, and producing gas with fewer operational emissions in Texas. It's and not, or see what doing both means for energy. Nationwide at bp.com/investing in America.

1 (24s):
From WBEZ Chicago. It's this American Live America Glass.

2 (33s):
Hello.

3 (34s):
Hi, this is Yousef Hammash.

2 (36s):
Yes, it is loud and clear.

3 (40s):
Good. Do you, is this still an okay time for you to talk?

2 (46s):
Yes. Okay. Yeah. But it's a bit crazy outside. A lot of proudness, you know, there's a lot of traffic, especially from the children. Let me find a quiet place. Okay.

3 (56s):
Close

2 (57s):
The door. Yes.

1 (1m 0s):
For months, one of our producers, HANA Jaffe, Walt has been talking to Yusef Hammash. He's in Gaza. Back in December, we put out a, an extra podcast episode, a bonus mini episode with some of those conversations. But so much has happened since then. We wanted to come back to Yusef and do a full episode, and that is what we have for you today. It is a series of unusually frank conversations about what he and his family were experiencing sometimes as they were experiencing it, and about the decisions they made with the choices they had. So what we're gonna do is we're gonna play you a lot of stuff from December, and then what has happened since then. Yusuf is in his early thirties, got two kids and a big extended family.

1 (1m 41s):
He works for a humanitarian organization operating in Gaza, the Norwegian refugee council, the NRC. And Hanah started talking to Yusuf in early December, really knowing very little about him or his situation at the beginning. And as you'll hear more and more unfolds and gets revealed. At that point, he had just relocated with his wife and kids to Rafah where the NRC office is. Rafah is in the south of Gaza. It's at the border with Egypt. His family was living in the NRC office there. And so Yusef was in the unusual situation in Gaza, where he often did have internet access with solar panels providing power. Meanwhile, the rest of his extended family, including four sisters, was about eight miles away in a town called Unis.

1 (2m 28s):
Here's Hana.

3 (2m 29s):
So town. Talk to me about what did you do today?

2 (2m 35s):
And today I had to find a place for my extended family, which hamdu I found today. I found a place and I build a tent, two tents actually, for, because I couldn't find a house to rent or anything. So tomorrow I'll move the rest of my family here to, from canes to these two tens. And today it takes me a while building these things.

3 (3m 0s):
Is there anybody in the family that is hesitant? Do you have to?

2 (3m 6s):
Yes, we have. I, I had Yes. Yes. Yeah. Yeah. They're part of the family. Yeah, yeah, yeah. And even, yeah, a few minutes ago, a few minutes ago, I was having this debate with my sister that was like, okay, I, I, I'm pregnant. She, because she's pregnant and she don't wanna do the delivery in a tent. And she said like, okay. They are still far, like one kilometer away, the tanks. And like she said, that we cannot suffer more. At least we are, we have here. Bathroom. Yeah. The main debate was a bathroom about having your privacy use a bathroom because you know, when you are fleeing in a tent, there is no bathrooms or that privacy. While I'm trying tomorrow I'll find a way to build a bathroom for them.

3 (3m 48s):
Yusuf has been moving and convincing his sisters to move since the war began. They all started the war in Jabal, in the northern part of Gaza. After October 7th, when Hamas attacked southern Israel and killed around 1200 people, took about 240 people hostage. Yusef immediately moved his family from Jabal to his parents' house in a nearby city bait Leia. They moved the very next day, October 8th. On October 9th, Israeli airstrikes hit Bel. And then again on October 12th, 19th, 22nd, 31st, November 1st, second, fourth. And on Yusef, his family and his sister's families then fled south to Hanes.

3 (4m 33s):
They stayed with relatives until Yusef read a leaflet that fell from the sky. It said, you must evacuate immediately and go to shelters in the city of Rafah. The city of Hanes is a dangerous combat zone. Forewarned is, forearmed was signed the Israeli defense forces. That's when he fled to Rafah with his wife and his kids. By that point in the war, over 15,000 people in Gaza had been killed. The place Yousef works. The NRC had rented an office in Rafah in the area the Israelis were now saying was a safe zone. Yusef moved his immediate family into the office, but his sisters and their families weren't so sure they wanted to follow this time.

3 (5m 19s):
So Yusef, from the moment he got to Rafah had been pushing his sisters in Unees to come. He'd been at that for almost a week,

2 (5m 27s):
To be honest. All each one of them have its own personality, and they have to persuade her the way I know each one of them. One of them, she, she's worried about her father-in-Law and Mother-in-law is like, okay, they're not, they're, they're not safe. And they're the suite. I'll build them a tent, but I want to make sure that you are with me here. I, I'll bring them also. The other one, I had to do the same option with her. Okay. I'll bring your father-in-Law and their entire family. I'll take care of them, but I want you to come here.

3 (5m 57s):
What about the woman who's pregnant? I,

2 (5m 59s):
I keep doing Yeah. The woman who is pregnant, she's the youngest and she's the most stubborn one. Yeah, she's the youngest. When we came to the south, there was no military operation on the ground. She refused. And her father-in-Law and Mother-in-law refused. I had a fight with them and I told them, listen, I want my sister with me. And we had a bit of Argo because they didn't expect what's coming.

3 (6m 21s):
Yeah. I hadn't thought about how each time you have to sort of mentally convince yourself that the place that you're in, which is feeling okay at that moment, might not feel okay very soon.

2 (6m 33s):
Yeah. Because, yeah, no, when, who would ever imagine that the Israeli tanks would be in the center of Jabal camp? Or who would ever imagine that they would be in Shiva Hospital? Yeah. These things, we never imagined that it'll be a real thing that we are seeing by our own eyes. We, we never thought about that.

3 (6m 55s):
Yusuf was lobbying his sisters to move as hard as he could, but honestly, he himself wasn't always totally sure about bringing them to Rafah. Yusuf kept searching for new information about what the Israeli military was planning to do next. He'd ask everyone he met, look everywhere online, except a few places he avoided.

2 (7m 16s):
I don't open the, my Facebook, for example, or an Instagram because all my friends from GA are there. 'cause it's, I don't wanna know who's dead. I, I, I don't wanna know. I don't have the time to respect these people who I lose by coincidence. Few days ago I found out that my uncle is dead. I didn't know about that before. And a friend of mine told me that, oh, hey, you know, any, we were just having a chat and we, I mentioned him and I didn't know that he's my uncle. And I was talking that, ah, he's my uncle.

2 (7m 56s):
And I was like, yeah, I'm sorry for your loss. I was like, what?

3 (8m 0s):
Oh,

2 (8m 1s):
I didn't, I didn't know that. It was like two weeks ago. He's dead. He's killed two weeks ago in Jabalia. While I didn't know,

3 (8m 8s):
How did that come up in that conversation?

2 (8m 11s):
We were, when were we mentioning where his parents living in Jabali. And I was like, okay, my relative's living there. They're from like jewelry family. And I was like, yeah, yeah, I know him. And he was like, yeah, he is my uncle. He is like, yeah, sorry for your loss. I was like, no, no, no, he's alive and no, he was killed. And I was like, I know, I know. I was like, I felt a bit stupid. And it's, it was really weird feeling that I didn't know that my uncle is dead since two weeks he was killed.

3 (8m 42s):
Do

2 (8m 42s):
You, the other thing, okay, just to continue on this story. Yesterday, my brother, who is in Sweden, my cousin who is the son of the, my uncle, I mentioned, he was asking my brother to check if I have information about his father. And I don't want to be that also to deliver the news for him that his father was killed.

3 (9m 7s):
Have you told him?

2 (9m 9s):
No. I told him there is no connection between the south and the north and it's impossible to reach there. Which is, which is true. There is, there's no phone calls. There is nothing that you don't, you cannot reach anyone in the north. And I was like, I will try to, to check what's the situation. But I, I couldn't, I, I didn't want it to be that the one who's giving the news. Oh,

3 (9m 29s):
Yousef. So you didn't, you just couldn't bring yourself to tell him what you had heard.

2 (9m 34s):
Yes. Even my mother who is with me now, doesn't know.

3 (9m 41s):
Is it her brother?

2 (9m 43s):
Yes.

3 (9m 44s):
And you're not gonna tell her.

2 (9m 47s):
Definitely not. And I'm saying that here because I am, I'm sure that they, they want, they don't understand English, first of all. And second thing, they won't listen. Sorry for that. But they're in Gaza. They won't listen to this podcast to know from this podcast that, yeah, I always don't janni. It's one of the first time that I really speak about these things. And it's, it's, it feels really weird for me that I always in front of everyone around me, I'm the man who's managing everything and supporting anyone in need. And if you need anything, the best one to call is use you. Now, I I, I'm, I'm helpless, useless.

2 (10m 29s):
I, I cannot do anything. I cannot even manage my own need.

3 (10m 37s):
So if your uncle comes up, your mom mentions him, or your wife says, oh, I wonder how he's doing your, you'll not say anything.

2 (10m 45s):
It happens. And I didn't say anything. Yes, it happens yesterday. And like, no, I'm not gonna say anything. My brain was like circling around and I was like, okay, you have to tell her she have, she deserve to know that her brother is dead. And I was like, no, she, it's her right to know. And she will blame me a lot when she knows that I was knowing without telling her that I have to shut down. My brain is like, no, you turned off. It's not your role now.

3 (11m 16s):
Not your what?

2 (11m 18s):
It's not your role. Not your role. Don't need to be functioning now.

3 (11m 21s):
Yeah. Focus on building tents. That,

2 (11m 24s):
That's, that's, I I have to, to be honest, we have, I have plenty of to-do list on my list is many things. My priority. Now it's the time to secure my family and manage their needs more than anything else. For me looking for their safety. It's not about them. Only it's, it's more about me. I cannot imagine for a moment losing one of them. One of my sisters. It has to be me before them. So you, 'cause I, I don't have the strength to even to think about losing one of them.

2 (12m 7s):
That's why I'm doing it. Not because of you. It's 'cause of me. I am don't have that. I am weak to have the strength to handle losing any one of them. I don't have that strength.

3 (12m 21s):
Do you think they do it for you

2 (12m 25s):
Then? They came to with me. Before me. They, no one was, no one agreed. It was really hard. And I had a fight with my mother and, but they, they came because I, I I, I want them, I want them to be with me.

3 (12m 41s):
So they do it for you.

2 (12m 44s):
That time Yes. Was for me.

3 (12m 46s):
And this time,

2 (12m 50s):
This time I think I'll prepare everything. I will prepare the tents. I'll find you a place, then I'll move you once when everything's ready to have you. And what pushed me to finish everything today is that Benjamin Netanyahu, he was threatening Hezbollah. He was like saying, Hezbollah, you should stop what you are doing. 'cause if it's not a war, we will turn Beirut into Za and Hanes. So I was like, okay, now's Hanes and I need to evacuate them from there. They are, they're in the center of Hanes.

3 (13m 22s):
Did you send them that quote?

2 (13m 25s):
Yep. 'cause a lot of people stay until the last moment. And when they evacuate, they evacuate under bombing. And I don't want my sisters to experience that.

3 (13m 38s):
What does the tent look like?

2 (13m 41s):
So there is two types of tents. Now I became expert, by the way,

3 (13m 45s):
I was gonna ask you how you know how to build tents so quickly.

2 (13m 49s):
So one, when I get it through NRC, where I work, and it was with instruction, that was easy. The other one is like wooden stakes with plastic. The hardest part was finding a place, a suit place to rent a small land. Not in randomly the streets. You know, it's agricultural area. It's a bit sand everywhere.

3 (14m 11s):
So you rent a land, you don't, you didn't

2 (14m 14s):
Just strikes.

3 (14m 15s):
Wow. I'm sorry, what?

2 (14m 17s):
It was massive. A strike

3 (14m 19s):
Just now.

2 (14m 22s):
Yes. Another airline. They're going, they're getting crazy somehow. All of this,

3 (14m 30s):
The explosions are in Hanes right now.

2 (14m 33s):
Yeah, yeah, yeah. Another one. Okay. What's going on? I will call you in a minute. Okay, no problem. Just

3 (14m 45s):
No problem.

2 (14m 46s):
Just to check. Okay. Just one minute. I'll call

3 (14m 48s):
You back. Take your time. Okay. Bye. Because

2 (14m 50s):
It, it seems really massive there. Okay. Okay. Bye.

3 (14m 59s):
Hi.

2 (15m 1s):
Hello? Hi. Yes. Sorry. Is everybody

3 (15m 4s):
Okay? Just wanna

2 (15m 4s):
Make, make sure that they're still alive. Yeah, they're alive.

3 (15m 8s):
Do you literally write, are you alive?

2 (15m 11s):
Yeah. It's was a funny message for my sister. Are you alive?

3 (15m 15s):
Wait, that's funny.

2 (15m 18s):
Yeah. 'cause I had to send a smile and emojis laughing. That's why, how we're talking always. And even when I'm with them, it's like, okay, we have one more day to live. Let's enjoy it. Maybe two days. Okay.

3 (15m 31s):
So you, you wrote her, are you alive, smiley face?

2 (15m 36s):
Yeah.

3 (15m 37s):
Oh my god. That is, yeah. And she writes back. Yes. Or she laughs.

2 (15m 43s):
Yeah, she laughs. And she said it's a bit calm. A bit calm. Okay. I dunno what it means. A bit calm. But yeah.

3 (15m 54s):
I'll let you go. I've taken so much of your time.

2 (15m 56s):
Thank you so much.

3 (15m 57s):
And, and tomorrow what's gonna happen is your sisters are gonna move.

2 (16m 3s):
Yeah. This is gonna be the early thing for me to do in the morning. 'cause I don't want them to move under the bombing. So I, when I keep with them, when it's a bit calm and manageable without risks. So I'll do it in the early morning, but maybe because of the strain, it's, ah, I need to assist the situation tomorrow morning. Okay. I I promised them that women make the decision together this time tomorrow morning.

3 (16m 28s):
But you've already made the decision that you want them to go.

2 (16m 31s):
Yes. Yes.

3 (16m 33s):
Okay. I hope you have a, an easy night and I will check in with you tomorrow.

2 (16m 38s):
That's a good phrase. Easy night. Okay, Michelle. Thank you. Thank you. Okay,

3 (16m 44s):
Bye. Thank you.

2 (16m 45s):
Bye-Bye.

3 (16m 49s):
Hi Yusef.

2 (16m 50s):
Hello.

3 (16m 51s):
Did your sisters move today?

2 (16m 55s):
Unfortunately, not yet. And they, they were refusing to leave without a bathroom. But today there were lack of tanks and airstrikes. No, I promise them that tomorrow it's gonna be, there'll be a bathroom tomorrow and make my best to make it happen.

3 (17m 11s):
I wanna jump in and say a little bit about what Yusuf doing His best. Looks like an incomplete summary of that particular day. He spent the morning trying to track down trucks for the Norwegian refugee council where he works. The trucks were full of aid, things like bedding, tents, buckets for water that should have arrived at the border. But he couldn't check online if they were there because the system was down and the phones weren't working. So he went in person, wandered around, looking at plate numbers, could not find the trucks. Then he went to the market to find medicine for his wife. Manal, who's sick, could not find medicine. In the midst of all this, he got a call from another relative who was fleeing and needed a place to stay in Rafah.

3 (17m 55s):
Yes. Yes. You can come. Yusef told him one more tent near his sister's tents. Yusef saw a guy building a bathroom, hired that guy, but he's busy until tomorrow. The bathroom guy told Yusef he needed to find supplies. So Yusef spent hours searching for cement stones and a water tank. He found a water tank, but it was in a different part of Gaza. So Yusef paid more than the price of the water tank to get it transported. I was picturing like a hole in the ground that you were gonna build near, you're gonna dig near the tents, but you're building an actual bathroom with water and walls.

2 (18m 34s):
Yes. That actually, that was a condition from my sisters.

3 (18m 38s):
So is that the first thing for you tomorrow?

2 (18m 42s):
Definitely, yes. It'll be happening for sure tomorrow because yeah, a few, two hours ago or less, there an air right near them. And it takes me like half an hour or more just trying to call, trying to call. I couldn't reach anyone and that's freaked me out. And my, I I i, I cannot handle the situation again. And I managed to reach my sister. I see. And you are fine. There's a lot of gas and lot of bombing, but we are fine. And that's what, and this is when we agreed Halas tomorrow are moving and I will come to pick you tomorrow.

3 (19m 20s):
Oh, you did?

2 (19m 23s):
Yeah. Then

3 (19m 23s):
So she, she definitely agreed.

2 (19m 26s):
Yeah. Yeah. I then, sorry, are we recording of something? 'cause my son is just annoying me.

3 (19m 35s):
That's okay. I like hearing him. How old is he?

2 (19m 39s):
Two year and a half.

3 (19m 40s):
Two and a half. Ilia

2 (19m 41s):
Bbye second be, lemme just ask him to close the door. Last night we had, I had to stay awake until Ahmed, who does cannot sleep without being kissed thousand times and whose cheeks until he sleep. Sometimes when he feel that I'm tired of kissing him, he give me his hand to kiss it.

3 (20m 9s):
So that you have it close to you.

2 (20m 11s):
Exactly. Yeah. He, he, he like to give me some rest sometimes. Okay. Can kiss my hand. I don't know how we get this habit, but I, I don't mind it. And for me it's okay. I'm really grateful for the, the rain. It start raining, then that reduce the, the sound of bombing and also you can use it. Oh, this is a thunder strike. So we are lucky today. We can, I can, we can manipulate that. So Yani.

3 (20m 37s):
So you'll tell them in the night if they hear a noise? Yeah,

2 (20m 41s):
It's raining. It's raining, it's raining, you know, it's thunder, it's raining. I dunno. At the beginning, I, it was a bit easy to convince them that this is fireworks or thunder strike. But then even my daughter, Ilia, which is five years old now, can understand that this is even my son Ahmed, who's two years and a half. And he can say like, bombing, this is from airplane. And he keep using this word gus, which means strikes and what the hell? That's another massive strike.

3 (21m 24s):
Is it close to you?

2 (21m 27s):
No. If it was close, you would hear it.

3 (21m 29s):
Okay. Okay.

2 (21m 33s):
I failed to convince them that this is not a war and to, I failed that they know that this is a war and that age. And they see how we are shouting. My, my sisters are crying, or it's not enough anymore for my children to, when they feel panic from bombing to run towards us, they, they, they start scream without even running towards us because somehow they understood that we are, we don't have that ability to protect them. And that, that, that's something really awful. When you, you understand that your children understand that you cannot protect them.

2 (22m 18s):
When I start to feel useless in front of my children, and I can, I, when I found that I cannot protect my children, I I deeply regret it. Because

3 (22m 27s):
You regret what, what

2 (22m 28s):
Is the meaning as a father? I regret having children here. What is the meaning for me as a father if I cannot protect them?

3 (22m 35s):
You regret having children, having children in Gaza?

2 (22m 39s):
Yes, definitely. I regret, I made them, I made that decision and I had children in Gaza. While I know the consequences, but I wasn't imagining that we'll go through this because I am a man of responsibility. I'm responsible for these children to secure their life and future. If I know that they will live through this, I would never, ever even get married here.

3 (23m 8s):
You would never get married? Is that what you said?

2 (23m 11s):
Yes. Yes.

3 (23m 12s):
Yeah. Is a part of that feeling like, I should have known not to do this or

2 (23m 18s):
It's I should never did that decision? Hello?

3 (23m 32s):
Hi, Yusef. Do you, is it, do you have a couple minutes?

2 (23m 36s):
Yeah, yeah, of course. Yeah. Yeah.

3 (23m 39s):
How did today go?

2 (23m 42s):
O It was really, really long day. That's start really early and it was a lot of things to do.

3 (23m 50s):
Did they move?

2 (23m 51s):
Yeah,

3 (23m 52s):
They moved.

2 (23m 52s):
So I brought them on. Yeah. Yeah, they moved.

3 (23m 55s):
Wow. You did it took

2 (23m 58s):
You It was really a lot. Last night they were texting me about lot of bombing next to the house. Next to them was bombed. Another house behind them was bombed. And so they, they wanted to move, they wanted to go Haas

3 (24m 12s):
Yusef, the house next to them was bombed last night.

2 (24m 15s):
Yes. Yeah. Last night was when they start texting me that the bombing is around us, but

3 (24m 22s):
Yeah. But there was an airstrike that hit a property right next to them.

2 (24m 28s):
Yes. But it's a drone strike, so, okay. We have different types of messiahs that Israelis are using. So there is the F 16, which war planes, and this American made open to destroy entire neighborhoods. The drones have smaller bombs that destroy a house or half of the house. They were afraid that it's, it's the, the bombing might be in the same house because it's four floors and they're the first ones. So that's why they are, they were, they didn't argo me. And they like, yes, let's, let's move.

3 (25m 5s):
Did you think about going in the night?

2 (25m 8s):
Yeah, I told them I'm coming.

3 (25m 10s):
You texted back. I'm coming.

2 (25m 13s):
Yes. And they were freaking out that I will come and my wife prevented me. My sisters were texting me, do not come. There is a lot of bombing in the street, in front of the house. Do not come.

3 (25m 27s):
Yusuf waited till the sun came up and then drove to uni. He says on his way there he could hear gunfire and explosions all around him.

2 (25m 36s):
The first thing I did in the morning is like, I went there back up in the car, my sisters and their children and I came and then I sent another car, like a small van, small pass store and had the bags and everything. And my brother's in-law.

3 (25m 53s):
Was there a part of you that felt a little frustrated? Like, I told you guys you should have come earlier? I didn't want it to get to this.

2 (26m 4s):
That's exactly what first thing I said today. When I met them, I,

3 (26m 9s):
That was how you greeted them.

2 (26m 12s):
Yeah.

3 (26m 13s):
What did you say?

2 (26m 14s):
And first thing is like I told you, we don't wanna, 'cause it was a lot of bombing, a lot of tanks. Like I told you before, we don't need to run away under shilling and bombing. But now we did it tell us every time had to be the same situation.

3 (26m 28s):
So overnight you're worried about their survival and you're panicked and you wanna drive to get them in the middle of the night. But in the morning you greet them with I told you so this is what I said was gonna happen. Yep.

2 (26m 42s):
I was blaming them. They, so there is no discussion. We are leaving.

3 (26m 46s):
So you didn't like hug them and cry and say, I'm so glad you survived. You said, no, get

2 (26m 51s):
In the car. I was, I wa No, no. We have a different type of relation. I don't, it's not about hugging them. I was laughing. You should have died. I should be in the morgue now. This is how I'm with my sisters.

3 (27m 7s):
And did they laugh? What did they say about it?

2 (27m 9s):
And Haddi was like, ah, you know, actually they would start to give me orders quickly. You need to talk to our cousin. Imagine. Because he was supposed, you need to invite him. You have to talk to him nicely and push to bring them with us because they take care of us for a long time. Now we have to repay them. Also go to our uncle line because they wanted to to have invited by you. Not us. It, it's between like, okay, I'll do this. And you, you you beg the leg edge and you do that and they refuse to leave before cleaning everything.

3 (27m 41s):
They, they wouldn't leave without cleaning the house.

2 (27m 44s):
Yep. Cleaning the house, kitchen bathrooms.

3 (27m 46s):
Even though you're fleeing bombing.

2 (27m 49s):
Yes. Because they will. Yeah. Yeah. That was actually weird from them. But this is how they think. And I really respect it. 'cause we, we leave it better than the way we received. We had, this is how we show respect and we had to clean.

3 (28m 2s):
And then you left. Yep. Okay.

2 (28m 5s):
Then we left.

3 (28m 7s):
What did it,

2 (28m 7s):
And they saw, it was the first time for them since the beginning of the war to see their sea.

3 (28m 13s):
Oh.

2 (28m 14s):
And they were very, very excited and happy.

3 (28m 19s):
How did they respond to the tents when you showed them where they're staying?

2 (28m 23s):
And I was expecting that they will feel like it's not nice, but they were happy. It's like, okay. It's nice. Good.

3 (28m 31s):
Did you feel nervous?

2 (28m 33s):
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I want them to see that to, to prove for them that I did my best. And I was checking on them inside the tents. What do you think? It's warm. There's two layers for the tent. One for the, if it's rain and one inside. And I was trying to convince them as, you know, these sail sail people who is trying to convince you to buy something.

3 (28m 58s):
That was you. That's

2 (28m 59s):
Exactly what I was, that was me today. I know, it's nice. It's good. We'll do go the bathroom here. We'll get something there. Here we can turn the fire. And I was like, ah, one minute. I'll get you internet tomorrow and I will get you lights here. Our neighbors have a solar panel. He'll connect us some lights. Yeah. I was like, exactly. I was doing that sale salesman. And they were happy.

3 (29m 24s):
They were Did they give you the response you wanted? Yeah.

2 (29m 27s):
Yeah. It's like, yeah. Yeah. It's nice. But also I, when in our way coming, we went through one of the camps that people, you know, people are just building tents in the streets and they saw how miserable the situation is. So, and I meant, I meant to go there before taking them to our, our place.

3 (29m 51s):
You did it on purpose.

2 (29m 53s):
Exactly. Because I want to, I want them to see how people are living. So to, to prove for them that I did my best managing the what I could. When I met them today, I, I found out that they didn't eat it for two days. They only ate rice. So first thing I was thinking about, like preparing a really big meal for them. And they were surprised. I had barbecues and kebab and like, no, no.

3 (30m 22s):
So they had a meal. You had a meal together.

2 (30m 25s):
I a very big one. It was very expensive one, but I was like, okay, I'll feed you until you had more than enough. Wow. Yeah. So after like fasting for two days, it, was it worth to provide them with something really good?

3 (30m 41s):
Did they appreciate it?

2 (30m 43s):
Oh, a lot. They were very happy. I was very happy also having this meal.

3 (30m 59s):
The next day, Yusef went to work, his family getting settled right nearby. He made it a couple hours into the day when he got a call from his youngest sister, ail.

2 (31m 10s):
It's too complicated.

3 (31m 13s):
Wait, tell me what happened with your sister.

2 (31m 16s):
So Asil today wanted to go to the bathroom and she waited. So there is in the land next to us, they have a bathroom and they're friends of mine. And my neighbors is hosting more than 60 people. So they have to wait in line to, in this bathrooms single bathroom.

3 (31m 32s):
Oh, wow.

2 (31m 34s):
So yes. And she cannot wait. She's pregnant and she cannot, Annie, it's a bit embarrassing for her. And so she start to cry. And then she called me

3 (31m 43s):
While She was in line.

2 (31m 45s):
So she tried several times and she, she She was hopeless. Then she start to cry and decided to go back to Hanes. She decided that, and she called me and she told me, I am leaving to Hanes now. Oh, that's changed. The day I had to go back to meet my sister, take her to the bathroom, spend an hour or more. I went, I stopped the line.

3 (32m 17s):
How did the 60 people waiting respond to that?

2 (32m 21s):
Well, it went okay. I told them, no one is getting inside. No one goes to the bathroom. Halas until my sister finished.

3 (32m 31s):
Was she seriously thinking about going back to Es?

2 (32m 36s):
I don't think so. It's, it shows me that he, she needs me and I need to find a solution now again, she is, she's above the limit.

3 (32m 45s):
How pregnant is she? When is she due?

2 (32m 49s):
That's another alarming thing. So she is at the seventh month about to finish it. So I guess he is going through a lot.

3 (33m 6s):
The whole week, Yusef had been telling me he needed his family close to him. Now they're here, they're together in Rafah. They've moved from the very north of Gaza all the way down at the bottom edge of the Gaza strip on the border with Egypt. Yusef was now responsible for his own camp of about 60 people, one of whom was eight months pregnant. And, all of whom were looking to him to tell them what now what's the plan? Am

1 (33m 43s):
Anna Jaffe Walt coming up? Things do not go like Yousef planned. That's in a minute. From Chicago Public Radio, when our program continues.

The New York Times (33m 55s):
Hi, I'm Tracy Mumford. I'm an audio producer at The New York Times. We're always looking for new ways to bring you our reporting. That's where our show the headlines comes in. It covers three top stories, each weekday morning, all in under 10 minutes. You can find the headlines in the New York Times Audio app, along with other exclusive shows, narrated articles and more. And New York Times news subscribers can download this app right now and listen to the headlines@nytimes.com slash audio app.

1 (34m 26s):
This is American Life, Amira Glass. Today we're telling the story of Yusef Hammash. He spent months moving his family from one place to another in Gaza trying to keep them safe until finally at the end of last year, he got the model Rafah an enormous feat that, okay, I don't wanna idealize Yousef here, but there are a few people who have the special combination of resources and familial relationships and trust and also skills and planning abilities. And really luck to pull off what Yusuf just pulled off, getting 60 people to Rafah housed and together and seemingly for the moment save. So by the beginning of this year, they're all settled in Rafah waiting.

1 (35m 11s):
But Every day there talk that Israel is gonna launch a ground of assault in Rafah next. And Il Yusef's youngest sister is about to give birth again. Here's Hana.

3 (35m 23s):
I really wanted to talk to Yusef's sister Il once he got the Malta Rafah. She was the one Yusuf was thinking about the most, talked about the most, the funny sister, the emotional sister. Also the one most like Yusef. Resourceful, determined. Yusef told me, once a seal settled in Rafah, she quickly started taking things into her own hands. First of all, the tents Yusuf built. They were too crowded and loud. A seal built her own tent with her husband. Every time Yusef went to visit the camp, he'd find everyone in a Seals tent hanging out. She began to rebuild other parts of her life there too. Ailes, a nurse. People in the camp began bringing her their medical questions.

3 (36m 6s):
She'd advise, follow up, try to source medications for them when she could. A seals tent became part living room, part clinic. Yusef had always told me Il was his youngest and most stubborn sister. But when she arrived in Rafah, he added, she's also the least fazed, difficult things do not rattle il. Which is why the moment she'd called him crying in line to the bathroom was so alarming to him.

2 (36m 32s):
Yeah. Yeah. She, she usually doesn't complain. She doesn't complain. Usually Il is the most between my sister, I look, I look to IL as the most wise. She's young, but she's expert. She, she, she's in love with nursing, And, all of that. She, she reads a lot. I, I I'm, I, I spoke a lot about il and trust me, will be surprised when you talk to him.

3 (36m 56s):
It was really hard to reach il.

9 (37m 1s):
Hello?

3 (37m 2s):
Hi, IL, this is Hannah.

9 (37m 5s):
Hi, finally.

3 (37m 6s):
Hi. Finally the famous sister. The internet is okay now.

9 (37m 14s):
Yeah.

3 (37m 15s):
Okay. Did I lose you? It was not Okay.

9 (37m 21s):
The internet is really bad. One minute, please.

3 (37m 26s):
Okay. Okay. There was no internet at the tents and hardly any cell connection. I try catch a seal on the internet at Yusef's office or on her phone. Hi,

9 (37m 35s):
Hannah.

3 (37m 36s):
Hi. Can you hear me? Yeah. Okay,

9 (37m 39s):
We'll try.

3 (37m 40s):
Okay. Okay. I learned things in scraps of conversation that were maybe two or three minutes long. Some voice memos, text messages. Just as IL had managed her situation at the camp, she took control of her plans for childbirth too. Il told me she'd never been fearful of childbirth. She'd seen lots of births as a nurse. She was actually working in labor and delivery in Gaza city. When the war started, she'd imagined it she could do it. She said, when it comes to healthcare matters, I'm capable of controlling the situation for myself and those around me. When she had to flee her home, leave behind the doctor she loved, and the hospital she'd planned to deliver in a seal, just made a new plan.

3 (38m 24s):
She found a new hospital and a new doctor in uni. When that fell apart and she fled to Rafah, IL brought Yousef into her planning process in Rafah, IL and Yusef worked in tandem. They figured out where she could deliver a small maternity hospital. They mapped out a route to the hospital. Rafah is so packed with traffic and people now, it can take hours to get across the city. So Yusef studied routes and Google maps, and he practiced driving to the hospital on back streets through farmland and bumpy dirt roads. A seal didn't wanna bring a newborn back to the tent in the cold. So Yusef asked the NRC if a seal and the baby could stay with him and the other staff living at the NRC office just for a bit after the birth, they said yes at the camp.

3 (39m 13s):
They got the bathroom up and running. Four days after a seal arrived by late January, Yusef and Aile had a bathroom, a route to the hospital and a postpartum plan. There was only one thing a seal desperately wanted that she couldn't make happen herself. She told me in Arabic, when we were finally able to talk for a longer stretch,

10 (39m 38s):
I've always prayed that I won't give birth until there's a truth. I don't want to start experiencing labor pain before there's a truth. God willing, it'll happen.

3 (39m 47s):
Every day, there were small glimmers of a possible truce. Negotiations were underway for a ceasefire between Israel and Hamas. It was the last week of January. A seal was due February 4th, with or without a truce. Aile and Yusef had a plan. Then five days before her due date, they had an unexpected dry run that tested their plan. A seal had contractions. In the middle of the night, Yusef raced her to the hospital. It was a false alarm. The contraction subsided. But for the first time, IL got to see what it looked like inside the hospital.

10 (40m 32s):
When you enter the hospital, there's an unimaginable number of displaced people. It's full of displaced people. When we were standing at the door, there was a woman coming froman. They were displaced, and she came to the hospital in labor. Her water had already broken. She was standing at the door waiting in line because there are five or six beds inside, and they are all full. She was waiting for her turn to get examined, even though she couldn't stand. The baby came out while She was waiting at the door.

3 (41m 8s):
You saw her give birth?

9 (41m 11s):
Yeah. The baby is o

10 (41m 15s):
Yeah. Yeah. The baby is all the baby came out and they laid her down on the floor to deliver the baby. Right there. There were no beds, not even in the maternity ward. They laid her down on the floor and the midwife, or the doctor came to deliver the baby with her on the ground. Oh,

3 (41m 36s):
Wow. In front of you.

10 (41m 41s):
Yeah. I feared that I would be in her place. I imagined myself in her place waiting for my turn to go in for labor, but then for it to happen at the door

3 (41m 52s):
That night in the hospital, everything suddenly felt very real to Il. She was about to give birth in a tiny hospital that used to have around 20 births a day, and now sometimes had 100. She would be delivering her first baby in a city that had 200,000 people just a few months ago, and now had 1.5 million. She was about to give birth in a hospital in the middle of a war that had killed 600 people inside medical facilities and obliterated the vast majority of healthcare services. She was about to have a child in a war where more than 10,000 children have been killed so far.

3 (42m 32s):
A seal couldn't get unpregnant. She could pray for a ceasefire, but she couldn't wait for one. A seal had imagined her birth so clearly before the war, but now She was imagining it in ways she never had before. What if she delivered at the hospital on the floor? What if she delivered in her tent alone? What if Israeli tanks came into Rafah while She was in labor? What if She was naked pushing a baby out? When an Israeli soldier showed up at the door to her tent,

10 (43m 7s):
Thinking about this by itself, plant stutter in my heart that I could give birth and see the soldiers. The, the mere sight of the soldiers scares me.

3 (43m 18s):
And what if after she delivered her baby, she started bleeding? One horrifying thing ail knew was happening in Gaza right now is women who hemorrhage after birth are sometimes being given hysterectomies. I've talked to doctors and a midwife in Gaza who told me, this is happening. It's happening for lots of reasons. Hospitals don't have the routine medications that help stop bleeding after birth. They also don't have staff. The staff, they do have don't have time. Pregnant women are coming in malnourished sometimes with injuries and other complications, and they're going into labor severely anemic.

3 (43m 58s):
So if they hemorrhage after birth, which happens sometimes things quickly become life-threatening. They're using hysterectomies in Gaza because hysterectomies can be the fastest and safest way to save lives of all the very real possibilities, a seal was now imagining. This was the one she feared the most. She'd deliver her baby start bleeding, and they'd take her uterus that night in the hospital, she begged a doctor for his attention, is it safe here? I'm a medical professional. She said, please help me. The doctor told her, if you can deliver somewhere else, you should.

3 (44m 40s):
Il walked outta the hospital to the car where Yusef was waiting and told him, I cannot have my baby here.

2 (44m 47s):
I could see it in her eyes today. I, I don't think I have the capacity to, to, to translate into English what She was saying, but it's related to medical stuff that she saw with other females there. So I was like, no, I'll find you a solution tomorrow. I'll figure it out.

3 (45m 1s):
Yusef began calling people he knew, asking about other options for delivering a baby in Rafah, maybe a private doctor who could deliver outside the hospital. But those conversations quickly became other conversations. His coworkers, friends said, but Yusuf, are you seeing this? Did you see what Yoav Gallant just said? The Israeli defense minister. He's saying, Rafah is next.

2 (45m 27s):
You have Gall who, who said that when we finish from Es, we will go into Rafah. And that's a huge concern. For example, from where I am staying, there's Israeli tanks in the UX University. It's less than one kilometer. I can hear the tanks moving clearly. I can hear the clashes clearly, and I think that Israelis decided to continue the ground operation. It's gonna take them three minutes to arrive me.

3 (45m 59s):
When Yusuf thinks of those three minutes, he's not just thinking of him himself. He's thinking of the 60 people. He moved from other parts of Gaza to here. He's thinking how he promised this was the safest place to be

2 (46m 12s):
Building that camp, hosting these families, and then the, if the Israelis decided to start the ground operation in Rafah, it's gonna be like an ambush. It's gonna be like I create an ush for these families, bringing families to live in that place. Then the Israelis came and killing, I don't know, you know

3 (46m 32s):
It's gonna be on you. Yes.

2 (46m 34s):
At least I will feel it on me. Also, their relatives, the, their father-in-laws, all of them are I hosting them in the cab by build. So I'm also responsible, at least to inform these families that it's not safe here. I remember what happened in uni also, and they were start talking uni and they destroyed the entire city of

3 (46m 52s):
France. I know. I can't believe you're in this situation again, this is exactly where you were when we talked in early December.

2 (47m 0s):
Yeah. That's a long time. That's a long time.

3 (47m 9s):
Are you thinking about moving again?

2 (47m 15s):
I I had to think about the options that I have. Yeah. If I, we are going, and I was thinking about Ella,

3 (47m 22s):
Why Dar Bella? Why was that a place that you looked at?

2 (47m 25s):
This is the only areas that considered safe by the Israelis. They said either Rafah or Deba. But today I was looking for the statistic, the statistics of Deba. On a daily basis, there is at least five targeted, five houses targeted in Deba. So I have to think more twice about that. You, you cannot make a decision because nothing's clear.

3 (47m 50s):
Yeah, and did you, did you find a doctor for a seal?

2 (47m 56s):
Yes.

3 (47m 57s):
Wow. You found a doctor already?

2 (47m 59s):
Yeah.

3 (48m 0s):
Is it incredibly expensive? She

2 (48m 2s):
Found it. We didn't agree yet, but I told him, I'll pay whatever you want. I just want to be safe and an appropriate place, And all of that. So I don't care about financial things.

3 (48m 15s):
February 3rd, the day before her due date, Yusuf, the private doctor and a seal agreed on a new plan she would deliver at a clinic outside the hospital. The doctor promised they were equipped to deal with complications there without doing a hysterectomy. Five days later, February 8th, still no baby. February 9th, the prime minister of Israel, Benjamin Netanyahu ordered the military to develop a plan to evacuate Rafah to clear the way for a ground assault on Rafah. That same day I got a message from Yusef, A seal is currently in the hospital for the birth. I called several hours later.

3 (48m 55s):
Yusef was outside the hospital waiting. A seal was inside with his wife and their mom. He told me the baby had arrived. She was healthy, but he wasn't sure about his sister.

2 (49m 7s):
But I feel she's still on the watch inside the, oh, so unfortunately She was bleeding, so, so we are waiting.

3 (49m 15s):
She's, she's bleeding. She

2 (49m 17s):
Did a natural birth, but I think she had an issue and She was bleeding. The, the doctors, all the doctors at the hospital were running, trying to control it, so it was, they couldn't get inside because I was seeing so a small window that there's so many doctors around her. I was like, what's going on there? He told me that She was, he's bleeding and they trying to control it, and then after that he informed me that they control it, but they have to wait a bit.

3 (49m 42s):
Where is her? Hu Was her husband there?

2 (49m 46s):
Yeah. His husband is very young, so that's why I have to be there even to react for everything, because Il was like, I want you Ce like my mother. So many women are screaming around and so I cannot keep hearing her screaming. That's why I have to go out. I I have to leave.

9 (50m 11s):
Hello?

3 (50m 12s):
Hi, IL.

9 (50m 14s):
Hi.

3 (50m 15s):
Hi, Maru.

9 (50m 16s):
Hi. Very creek.

3 (50m 18s):
How are you doing?

9 (50m 20s):
Thank you.

3 (50m 22s):
A week after she gave birth, I reached Aile in Yu's office. She was in bed with her mom and her new baby. She was incredibly weak and she could not walk. Instead of the careful plan, a seal and Yusef made, she told me something very different happened. Her water broke in the middle of the night. They couldn't reach the private doctor, and Yusef couldn't get to a seal quickly enough to drive her. So a friend took her to exactly the place. She didn't wanna go to hospital. When she got there, she waited in the hallway just as she feared 12 hours in labor. She was begging for a room, a bed for someone to help her.

9 (51m 3s):
There

10 (51m 3s):
Was no room for me. There was no anesthetics, no nothing. I couldn't stand, I couldn't sit. I couldn't do anything. My sister spoke with the nurse there and she told her I couldn't stand in line and that I was about to give birth.

3 (51m 19s):
There was no chair for you to sit on?

9 (51m 25s):
No,

10 (51m 25s):
No. There was no chairs at all. There was only the doctor's chair, and I took it from her.

3 (51m 34s):
Oh. Il sat in the hallway on the stolen chair for more hours, more contractions. She felt the baby's head the need to push. Finally, they called her back, rushed her to a bed, but Il looked at the bed and froze

10 (51m 52s):
The bed sheet on. It was the same one the woman before me gave birth on. It was covered in blood, so I took it off and told them to get the cleaner. To wipe the bed

3 (52m 3s):
While you were in labor?

10 (52m 8s):
Yes, yes. I, I couldn't sit in the bed. Even with my pain. I'm willing to endure the pain a bit, but in a clean place and deliver the baby in a clean, sanitized place

3 (52m 20s):
In bed. Il immediately had to push. She pushed feeling utter panic, pushed and pushed without stopping, without breaks. She had an internal hemorrhage. The doctor made an incision to make the opening bigger. She bled more the whole day. Il had been directing the people around her for a chair, for a clean sheet, but once the baby arrived, she lost control. The nurses took the baby. Then a seal hemorrhaged for three hours while doctors tried to stop the bleeding.

9 (52m 57s):
Five

10 (52m 57s):
Doctors came in. I couldn't stay with them. I couldn't keep my eyes open. After about an hour of stitching and 28 stitches, there was no anesthesia or anything. I was appealing to God, 28 stitches between internal and external. I couldn't speak back to them or tell them I couldn't, that I was dizzy. I couldn't speak to them at all. I had surrendered to the pain. He told me that if it didn't work, they'll be forced to do a hysterectomy. I kept quiet and prayed that it wouldn't happen. I wasn't present, but I felt the thread going in.

10 (53m 38s):
I felt the prick of the needle. I was crying a lot and praying to God that it would be the last stitch. Every time I prayed, it would be the last stitch. They told me there was one more. You're almost there. This is the last one. I couldn't wait to leave the room. I couldn't move, and I was calling for my brother saying, I can't do it, and for someone to get me out.

3 (54m 3s):
You were calling for Yusef?

9 (54m 5s):
Yeah.

3 (54m 7s):
Why?

10 (54m 11s):
Because he would try to control the bad things that happened to us. For me, it was like, you can help me in this matter too. Come save me,

3 (54m 21s):
Me. Eventually the doctors finished the stitches and gave a seal, a blood transfusion. An obstetrician practicing in Gaza told me a seal was very lucky. The hospital had blood that day. All of the donated blood is from within Gaza, and most days there's not enough. A seal lost so much blood she couldn't see clearly. Normally after hemorrhaging that much, you'd stay in the hospital for a few days. It's hard to move. You're weak in pain. There's danger of infection, fainting. She had the stitches, but a seal was desperate to get out of there.

10 (55m 3s):
They told me not to leave because I couldn't get up. The stitches hurt a lot. I told them I wanted to leave because the place is not clean and because the displaced go there, so you can't get dressed. Yusef came to the hospital entrance. I couldn't get myself there, so I used a chair. They didn't have a wheelchair, so I used a normal chair for, for support, and I walked, I took the elevator down to the car.

3 (55m 30s):
You had to like get yourself to the elevator with the help of a chair?

9 (55m 38s):
Yes.

10 (55m 40s):
I used the chair to get to the elevator, and when I got down, there's a 10 meter long hallway or something like that.

3 (55m 48s):
Oh my God.

10 (55m 49s):
So I used the chair for support until I got to the car. Yusef then carried me into the car. He carried me and put me inside the car. I didn't even pay attention to the baby's features until I got a blood transfusion and started to feel better.

3 (56m 15s):
What did she look like when you were able to see her?

10 (56m 25s):
When I first saw her, I said she looked a lot like Yusef and his little son.

3 (56m 30s):
Oh, really? Ahmed? Yeah.

2 (56m 32s):
Yeah.

3 (56m 33s):
Did you feel happy about that?

2 (56m 35s):
Yeah. Yeah. It was the long, one of the longest days of my life.

3 (56m 41s):
That picture is so beautiful of you with the baby.

2 (56m 45s):
Yeah. When I take it and I was happy and excited. Yeah. Yeah.

3 (56m 52s):
You, you look, you look much skinnier. I hope it's okay to say that. Yeah,

2 (56m 56s):
Yeah. I, I lost so much weight, you know, I canned food.

3 (57m 3s):
Yeah,

2 (57m 4s):
Yeah, that's fine.

3 (57m 6s):
Yusef said, holding the baby, he felt immense relief.

2 (57m 10s):
Yeah. It introduced all that pressure that I was having for couple of months about that moment, and finally I reached it. It was a game of hope and I was waiting to have that feeling. All of that period, all that pressure in my head every day about a seal pregnancy, when she's gonna do the birth where blah, blah, blah. All of that is over.

3 (57m 30s):
He got a seal and the baby home from the hospital, or at least to the office that is now home where he'd created a bed for them to share with his mom. Everyone went to sleep that night. At one in the morning, Yusef woke up to bombing. It was louder and brighter than anything he'd experienced in Rafah before it felt like it was right nearby inside Rafah.

2 (57m 53s):
I was shaking huge, bombard children screaming, and I thought that the Israelis call, they start the operation and I would find the tanks in front of my place, and that's it. I, I was gonna, I was about to put my underwear because this is the way they take us. Men wearing only underwear. Wait,

3 (58m 10s):
Why were you gonna put on your underwear?

2 (58m 13s):
No, so usually, actually I was joking, but usually the Israelis, when they collect men, whenever they go on the ground and they collect men about 16 years old wearing only underwear.

3 (58m 24s):
You mean they take they make them take off their clothes?

2 (58m 27s):
Yeah.

3 (58m 29s):
Oh, that's a dark thought to have in the middle of the night.

2 (58m 32s):
Actually, I was joking. I was telling Manel that time, my wife, yeah, I need to prepare. The underwears should be warm because it's part of our life experience. So, sorry. It was kind of a joke. I know it's a dark humor, but that's, that's me.

3 (58m 47s):
What did your wife say?

2 (58m 50s):
It wasn't actually the right moment to make jokes. I don't usually write the find the right timing for, to make jokes.

3 (58m 57s):
Manal Manal was not appreciating your joke at that moment.

2 (59m 1s):
No, no. Yeah, we had to collect the kid between us and trying to warm them and to calm them, so we try to get back them. They give them back to sleep, but because nothing, we can do more than that.

3 (59m 17s):
In the morning, Yusuf was finally able to get online and figure out what just happened the night before. That night, Israel rescued two Israeli hostages from Rafah, two older men who'd been held captive for months since October 7th, and Israel killed according to the Gaza Health Ministry, at least 94 Palestinians, amnesty International says half the people killed in Rafah that night were children, including a two week old baby girl that was a seal's first night out of the hospital in bed with her mom next to her praying through six hours of bombing and the baby crying.

10 (1h 0m 2s):
I couldn't move or anything. I was scared. I waited for Yusef to come down in the morning and asked him if there's going to be a ground invasion in Rafah, because I couldn't walk. I couldn't carry the baby and stand.

3 (1h 0m 19s):
Yeah. What did he say?

10 (1h 0m 25s):
He said, don't worry, that won't happen. I told him all I was worried about happened waiting in line in the hospital happened. The difficult labor happened, and now they are entering here. No, at least this one shouldn't happen.

3 (1h 0m 42s):
Are you starting to doubt his reassurances when he says, don't worry.

9 (1h 0m 49s):
No.

10 (1h 0m 49s):
For me, what he says is what happens, I believe him

3 (1h 0m 54s):
Right now. There are dozens of people waiting to see what Yusuf says, what he's lining up for them next. He's launched into overdrive, calling friends, colleagues, carefully parsing official statements on a possible Rafah invasion and looking for a place they could flee to a building that's still standing, a piece of land he can rent and build tents. Exactly what he was doing when I first called him back in early December, only now he's exhausted, he's skinnier. His sister just had a baby and can't walk. Yusef has been quite ill several times, and 30,000 Palestinians have been killed since the war started, and it's not over right now.

3 (1h 1m 38s):
For the first time since Yusef began moving his family on October 8th to keep them safe, Yusef is not finding options this time. There really may not be anywhere to go.

2 (1h 1m 50s):
It's, I, I actually, to be honest, I don't wanna think about that because I know there's no solution and it's gonna be just a headache to go through details. What I will do, what a what about a deal? What about hip? What about, what about my wife and the children? My mother and it's responsibility. About responsibility and unfortunately this time I'm completely useless because I ran out of options and I, I, when I think about it deeply, there is no solution. There is no option ahead of me, so what I'm gonna do,

3 (1h 2m 21s):
I have never heard you talk like that, Yusef. I've never heard you say that. You're always the guy that's like, yeah, I'll figure it out. I'll call Soandso tomorrow or, no, we don't have it right now, but I I'll figure it.

2 (1h 2m 34s):
I don't have enough resources to manage this Now it's, it's, it's it's chaotic situation and I don't think I am mentally stable to try to take a decision. Now I'm, I'm, I'm trying to avoid thinking about it because I'm not prepared, because I don't have solutions. I don't have options ahead of me. When I have options, I'll start to think deeply about it, but up to now, I'm completely useless. I, I'm calling my friends who are nanny, scattered everywhere in Gaza and they just keep stashing, but I, I cannot find, my friend called me several times, actually. I, so I need to talk to him. Maybe I can call you back after. Sure,

3 (1h 3m 11s):
Sure. Yeah.

2 (1h 3m 11s):
Okay. Just if I will try to get some news from, okay. Okay. Thank you, Hannah. Okay. Thank you. Okay,

3 (1h 3m 17s):
Bye. Thank you. Bye

2 (1h 3m 18s):
Bye. Bye bye.

1 (1h 3m 33s):
Hannah Duffy Wild Wald is one of the producers of our show. Well, our program is produced and edited today by Nancy Updyke. People who put together today's show include Jane Ackerman, Jen Bonds, Sean Cole, Michael Comte, Catherine Raimondo, SAA Riddle, Ryan Ruy, Laura Chesky, Francis Swanson, Christopher at Tierney, Julie Whitaker and Diane Wu are managing editors. Sara Abdurahman, our senior editors, David Kestenbaum, our executive editors, Emmanuel Barry, Arabic Interpreters and translators and research help from Nabi Chaka and Hanni Hasi IL's English translation was read for us by Tara Abud. Casting help from Sabrina Hyman. Special thanks to Shana Lowe, an Baba Brian Kaner Sdot, mark Glasgow, Dr.

1 (1h 4m 16s):
Debbie Harrington, Dr. Tanya Hajj, Hassan and Anja. Behold. Our website, This American Life dot Org, where you can stream our archive of over 800 episodes for absolutely free. Also, there videos, those list of favorite shows to help you find something to listen to when you wanna listen to it. Again, This American Life dot Org This American Life is delivered to public radio stations by PRX, the Public Radio Exchange. Thanks as always, to our program's Co-founder Mr. Toia. I'm Mario Glass. Back next week with more stories of This American Life.

1 (1h 5m 6s):
This week on This American Life, the true story, the late Carlton Pearson, who was a rising star in the evangelical movement at a huge megachurch, and then God spoke to him. Carlton Pearson said, God told him that everyone is going to heaven. Whether you believe in Jesus or not, nobody's going to Hell. They started to preach that spoiler alert, this does not go well for him. This next week on the podcast, our new local public radio station.