0 (0s):
Welcome to the Huberman Lab podcast, where we discuss science and science based tools for everyday life.

1 (9s):
I'm Andrew Huberman. And I'm a professor of neurobiology and ophthalmology at Stanford. School of medicine. Today's podcast. Episode is all about Sleep. We are also going to talk about the mirror image of Sleep, which is wakefulness. Now these two phases of our life sleep and wakefulness govern everything about our mental and physical health. And we're not just going to talk about what's useful about sleep. We're also going to talk about how to get better at sleeping, and that will include how to get better at falling asleep, timing your sleep and accessing better sleep quality in doing so. We're also going to discuss how to get more focused and alert in wakefulness.

1 (51s):
So, because sleep and wakefulness are related, we really can't have a conversation about one without the other. I mean, in keeping with this theme, you may catch a few snores in the background. Unlike me, my bulldog Costello can fall asleep anywhere, any time. And he happens to be sleeping over there in the corner. So if you hear snoring, that's what that's about. As always, I want to just mention that this podcast is part of my effort to bring zero cost to consumer public education, about science and science related tools. It is unrelated to my teaching and research roles at Stanford. School of medicine

Helix (1m 23s):
today's podcast is brought to us by Helix mattresses, having the proper sleep environment, both the environment you're sleeping in, and the object you're sleeping on is critically important to getting a good night's sleep. Helix mattresses are a little different than most because they are matched to your specific sleep needs as well as whether or not you tend to run hot or cold as you sleep through the night, what position you sleep Inn and so forth. So if you go to their website, they have a quiz that you can take that matches you to the particular mattress that is going to be best for your sleep needs. I've always had a lot of trouble sleeping. I'm one of these people that can fall asleep easily, but then I wake up and I have a hard time getting back to sleep. And once I switched to a Helix mattress, that was precisely matched to my sleep needs. I found I could sleep through the night, which has made a tremendous difference for me. If you want to try Helix mattresses, you can go to Helix Sleep dot com slash Huberman. And that will give you up to $200 off on a mattress order, as well as two pillows free with your mattress order.

Headspace (2m 21s):
And of course, having the proper pillows is just as important as having the proper mattress today's podcast is also brought to us by Headspace Headspace is a meditation app that teaches you how to meditate. It's fair to say that. Now there's a ton of research out there in peer review journals, supporting the fact that mindfulness meditation can support mental and physical health, but many people find it hard to meditate. In fact, I'm one of these people. I started meditating in my teens, but then I would drop it every few weeks or so, and then I'd get back to it. Maybe the following week or every year, I just was not very regular about my meditation practice. And then a few years ago I was flying a lot for, and I was on jet blue flights and they have Headspace as part of the choice of things that you can watch on the TV screen. And as I started meditating more regularly, what I found is my sleep was better. I would arrive feeling more rested. It is just a tremendous affects on my work performance in other aspects in my life. So if you want to try Headspace, you can go to Headspace dot com slash special offer. If you do that, you'll get one month of all of Headspace as meditation's for free. That's the best offer right now. So if interested, go to Headspace dot com slash special offer.

1 (3m 33s):
So let's talk about sleep, sleep as this incredible period of our lives, where we are not conscious. We might dream, we might Twitch. We might even wake up, but in Sleep, we are only in relation to things that are happening within our brain and body outside sensory experience. In most cases can't really impact us. And yet Sleep has this tremendously important period of life because it resets our ability to be focused alert and emotionally stable in the wakeful period. So we can't really talk about wakefulness, focus, motivation, mood wellbeing, without thinking about sleep.

1 (4m 14s):
And that's why we're devoting this entire month to the discussion about sleep. But we also can't talk about sleep and think about sleep without thinking about wakefulness, because it turns out that the period that we call sleep and the period we call wakefulness are tethered to one another. What we do in the waking state determines when we fall asleep, how quickly we fall asleep, whether or not we stay asleep and how we feel when we wake up the next day. And today we're going to talk mostly about how to get better at sleeping and the reason for starting the conversation that way, as opposed to just diving into a lot of biology about sleep is because first of all, there's a lot of information out there already about the biology of Sleep.

1 (4m 58s):
We are going to touch on a little bit of this things like stages of sleep and sleep spindles Melatonin and dreaming. But I think that by now, most people are aware that getting a really good night's sleep on a consistent basis is critically important, but most people don't know how to do that. In fact, I'm guessing that very few of you out there are consistently getting seven to nine hours of really terrific sleep, waking up, feeling rested, like you're ready to attack the day and being able to go through the day, feeling focused and alert without dips in energy or focus. So if you're like most people, which includes me, you have some challenges with Sleep at least every third or fifth night or so, and maybe even more often.

1 (5m 43s):
So we're really going to go tool heavy today and talk about tools that can help you fall asleep, sleep better and emerge from sleep, feeling more rested. And we're going to do that by grounding our discussion of tools in peer reviewed studies, mostly from the last 10 years, although some, even more recent than that, and we're going to start by discussing what is sleep and what governs the Timing of the onset of sleepy. In other words, what makes you get sleepy at a particular time of day? So what determines how well we sleep in the quality of our wakeful state? It turns out that's governed by two forces. The first force is a chemical force.

1 (6m 23s):
It's called adenosine. Adenosine is a molecule in our nervous system in Body that builds up the longer we are awake. So if you just slept for eight or nine or 10, really deep restful hours, a dentist's seen is going to be a very low in your brain and body. If however, you've been awake for 10, 15 or more hours, adenosine levels are going to be much higher. Adenosine creates a sort of Sleep Dr or a Sleep Hunger. And actually hunger is the appropriate word here, because for most of what we are going to discuss Today we can think of it in an analogous way to nutrition, your nutrition and how well you feel after you eat certain foods, your overall level of fitness and your cellular health and your heart health.

1 (7m 11s):
Isn't governed by any one food item that you might eat or not eat. It's governed by a number of different factors. How often you eat, how much you eat, which items you eat, et cetera, and what works best for you in the same way, your sleep and your wakefulness are the product of kind of the average of a number of different behaviors. How long you've been awake is a key one because of this molecule adenosine. So the reason you get sleepy when you've been up for a while is because a dentist's seen is creeping up steadily. The longer you've been awake and a good way to remember this and think about a dentist thing is to think about Caffeine Caffeine for most people, except a very small percentage of people wakes them up.

1 (7m 53s):
It makes them feel more alert. In fact, some people are so sensitive to caffeine that they feel jittery. If they drink it, even in small amounts, other people can drink large amounts of caffeine and not feel judged or jittery at all. Caffeine act as an adenosine. Antagonist. What that means is that when you ingest caffeine, whether or not it's coffee or soda tea, or in any other form, it binds to the adenosine receptor. It sort of parks there just like a car would park in a given parking slot and therefore a Denison can't park in that slot. Now, when Caffeine parks and the adenosine receptor slot, nothing really happens downstream of that receptor, the receptor can't engage the normal cellar functions of making that cell and you feel sleepy.

1 (8m 41s):
So the reason Caffeine wakes you up is because it blocks the sleepiness receptor. It blocks the sleepy signal. And this is why When that caffeine wears off adenosine will bind to that receptor sometimes with even greater what we call afinity and you feel the crash, you feel especially tired. Now, I'm not here to demonize Caffeine I love caffeine. I drink it in the morning and I drink it in the afternoon. But I'm one of these people that either because of my tolerance or because of some genetic variations that exist among people in terms of their adenosine receptors, I can drink Caffeine as late as four or 5:00 PM in the evening and still fall asleep, just fine.

1 (9m 23s):
Some people can't have any caffeine at all, or can't have any caffeine past 11:00 AM or else their sleep has totally disrupted. All of this has to do with the relationship between a Denison and these adenosine receptors as genetic variation, things that are very hard to find out except experimentally, meaning each of you needs to decide and figure out for yourselves, whether or not you can tolerate caffeine. And at what times of day you can tolerate Caffeine in order to still fall asleep easily and get good sleep. So rather than demonize Caffeine or say that, you know, everyone can drink Caffeine until late, you needed to figure out what's right for you. Caffeine has a lot of health benefits.

1 (10m 4s):
It also, for some people can be problematic for health. It can raise blood pressure, et cetera. Caffeine increases this molecule. That's a neuromodulator that we call dopamine. We discussed this in episode one, which tends to make us feel good, motivated and give us energy. Because as you may have learned in episode one, dopamine is related to another. Neuromodulator called epinephrin, which gives us energy. In fact, epinephrin is made from dopamine. So let's just take a step back and think about what we're talking about. When we're talking about sleep. Sleepiness, sleepiness is driven by increases in a dentist's thing that happened naturally. Caffeine prevents the adenosine from having its action of making a sleepy by blocking that receptor.

1 (10m 49s):
So it gives us energy and it increases our dopamine levels, but some people can't tolerate caffeine very well. Other people can tolerate it just fine. So you need to determine that experimentally, all the data say there's tremendous variation. And right now, the only way that I'm aware of for you to decide whether or not Caffeine is a good or a bad thing for you and whether or not you should ingest it at a given time of day or at all is really to figure that out on your own. In fact, there's a small subset of people that can drink Caffeine until very late, and they have no trouble falling asleep because they actually have a mutant form of the adenosine receptor. So in keeping with a theme of science and science related tools, this is one of those cases where I can't give you a one size fits all prescription, except to say, you need to experiment with caffeine in a way that safe for you and explore that and figure out what works for you, and then stick with that.

1 (11m 41s):
Okay. So a dentist's seen is driving the Sleep Hunger when a dentist's seen is low. It's like we're well fed. We're not very hungry. And when a dentist's seen as high it's, like we're fasted for a long time and we tend to be very hungry so that when a dentist's seen is high, we really want to fall asleep. If you want, I'm not suggesting you do this experiment, but you can do it. You can stay up for, for more hours than your used to staying up. And you'll find that you're a very, very sleepy that's 'cause the dentist's seen is building up at levels higher and higher because he's been a Awake for those extra four hours. However, if you've ever pulled an all-nighter, you'll notice something interesting as morning rolls around. You'll suddenly feel that way, an increase in your energy and alertness.

1 (12m 23s):
Again, even though a dentist's seen has been building up for the entire night. And why is that? The reason that is, is because there's a second force, which is governing when you sleep and when you are awake. And that force is a so-called circadian force. Circadian means about a day or about 24 hours. And inside all of us is a Clock that exists in your brain and my brain and the brain of every animal that we're aware of that determines when we want to be sleepy. And when we want to be awake, just think about it. We don't go through the day wanting to fall asleep every 30 minutes, and then feeling like we are wide awake, our sleep, and our period of sleepiness tends to be condensed into one block, typically one six to 10 hour block.

1 (13m 12s):
Although there's also variation in terms of how much people want to sleep, and we're going to discuss how you can diagnose your absolute sleep need as well as how to recover sleep, that you've lost that block of sleep. And when it falls within each 24 hour cycle is governed by a number of different things. But the most powerful thing that's governing when you want to be asleep. And when you want to be awake is light. And in particular, it's governed by sunlight. And I can't emphasize enough how important and how actionable this relationship is between light. And when you want to sleep, it's quite simple on the face of it.

1 (13m 53s):
And it's quite simple to resolve, but people tend to make a big mess of this whole circadian literature, frankly. So let's just break it down from the standpoint of what's going on in your brain and body, as you go through one 24 hour day, let's start with waking. So regardless of how well you slept at night or whether or not you were up all night, most people tend to wake up sometime around when the sun rises. Maybe not right at sunrise, but within an hour or two or maybe three of sunrise. And I realized there are a night shift workers in, there are people traveling and experiencing jet lag, where this is not going to be the case. We are going to deal with jet lag and shift work at the end of this Podcast.

1 (14m 35s):
But for most people, we tend to wake up about the time that the sun is rising or so, and as we do that, a dentist's seen levels tend to be low if we've been asleep for reasons that you now understand. And our system generates an internal signal that is in the form of a hormone. Now I've talked a lot about neuromodulators and neuro-transmitters, I haven't talked a lot about Hormones yet on this podcast, the definition of a hormone, is it a substance, a chemical that's released from one organ in your body that goes and acts on other organs elsewhere in your body, including your nervous system. When you wake up in the morning, you wake up, 'cause a particular hormone called cortisol is released from your adrenal glands, your adrenal glands sit right above your kidneys.

1 (15m 24s):
And there's a little pulse of cortisol. There's also the pulse of some. And when I say a pulse, I just mean that the Release of a little bit, there is also a pulse of epinephrin, which is adrenaline from your adrenals and also in your brain. And you feel Awake now that pulse of cortisol and adrenaline and epinephrin might come from your alarm clock. It might come from you naturally waking up, but it tends to alert your whole system in your body. That it's time to increase your heart rate. It's time to start tensing your muscles. It's time to start moving about. It's very important that that cortisol pulse come early in the day, or at least early in your period of wakefulness.

1 (16m 5s):
I say that because some people are waking up at 8:00 PM and are sleeping all day, but it's very important that that pulse of cortisol occur early in the day, and that it happens all at once. It sort of sets a rising tide of cortisol in your system. Now, many of you have probably heard about cortisol in relation to stress, and indeed, as we go through our day in our life, different stressers, different events happen in your life that make us feel more alert. Some of the more stressful ones might be looking at your credit card bill and seeing a, what seems to be a fraudulent charge or looking at your phone and suddenly seeing a text that something you thought was gonna happen at a particular time is not going to happen, or you're running late.

1 (16m 46s):
Those will tend to increase norepinephrine and epinephrine and adrenaline in your system. And if they're severe enough, you'll start getting some pulses of cortisol released from your adrenals throughout the day. But there's this normal Healthy rising tide of cortisol that happens early in the day. And I say, Healthy because it wakes you up. It makes you feel alert. It makes you feel able to move and wanting to move and to go out out your day for work for Exercise for school, for social relations, et cetera. So when you wake up in the morning is when that cortisol pulse takes off and something else important happens. A timer is set in your body in, in your nervous system that dictates when a different hormone called Melatonin, which makes you sleepy.

1 (17m 32s):
We will be secreted from a particular brain region. So let's talk about that. When you wake up in the morning and you experience that rise in cortisol, there is a timer that starts going, and these are cellular timer's, and there are dictated by the relation between different organs in your body that says to me, or to your brain, and Body that in about 12 to 14 hours, a different hormone. This woman we're calling Melatonin will be released from your pineal gland. So there's two mechanisms here, Awake fullness signal and a sleepiness signal. And the wakefulness signal triggers the onset of that. A timer for the sleepiness signal. Now that sleepiness signal that we call Melatonin that's released in the Pineal comes only from the Pineal unless your tape King exogenous.

1 (18m 19s):
Melatonin your supplementing with melatonin. The only source of melatonin in your body is going to be this pineal gland. So let's talk about the pineal gland for a second. The pineal gland is a gland that sits kind of in the light, a little structure near it for the aficionados out there, it's kind of a near the fourth ventricle, its about the size of a pea Decart the philosopher said that the Pineal was the seat of the soul. He said that because its one of the few structures in it, human brain that there's only one of them, you know, most structures there's one on either side of the brain. So called by hemispheric. But the Pineal there's only one. I don't know anything about souls.

1 (18m 59s):
Really certainly not the science of souls, but I think it's very unlikely that the pineal is the seat of the soul, but it is a very interesting organ because it's the only organ in our body that releases melatonin and that Melatonin makes us sleepy and lets us fall asleep. Now I'm guessing that many of you are probably asking, should I take Melatonin my personal bias on this is except in rare cases. Yeah, no. For the following reason, melatonin has a second function, which is that Melatonin also suppresses the onset of puberty in kids' and especially in babies Melatonin isn't just released in the evening 12 to 16 hours after we Wake Melatonin is released chronically or tonically throughout the day and night and that chronic or a tonic Release of Melatonin is known to suppress some of the other Hormones in other regions of the brain that trigger the onset of puberty.

1 (19m 58s):
Now, if you are, or your child has been taking Melatonin don't freak out as always any kind of Supplement or anything that you are going to take or think about taking you really need to consult with your doctor. I've said this many times on this podcast and its in the show notes, et cetera. But before you remove anything or you add anything to what you are already doing, please do consult with a healthcare professional. However Melatonin is known to suppress the onset of puberty so much so that regular cyclical cycled periods of Melatonin Release from the Pineal Really correlate with the onset of puberty and early adulthood. Meaning as we start secreting, Melatonin only at night, that's also when we tend to transition out of puberty.

1 (20m 44s):
Now there are a lot of things that correlate in our nervous system. So it doesn't mean it controls it. But in this case we know based on lots of data endocrinology and so forth, that Melatonin suppresses the onset of puberty. So supplementing Melatonin could be problematic for that reason, but if you're on, if you've already gone through puberty, it could also have some impact on other hormone systems in your body. So that's why I personally don't like to use melatonin to fall asleep. There is another reason which is that Melatonin will help you fall asleep, but it won't help you stay asleep. And many people who take Melatonin find that they wake up three to five hours later, unable to fall back asleep. Part of the reason for that might be that Melatonin purchased at, you can buy it over the counter in most areas of the world, even though it's a hormone, which is a little unusual, you can just go into a pharmacy, at least in the U S in by testosterone or cortisol or estrogen.

1 (21m 37s):
You need a prescription, but you can go buy Melatonin for whatever reason. I don't know the reasons for that legality, but it's been shown many times and now I'm borrowing from some items that were in Matt Walker's book. Why we Sleep where he stated thee. There is evidence that in commercially available melatonin, the amount of Melatonin has been tested and for various brands and it can range anywhere from being 15% of what's listed on the bottle. OK. So if they list, this is a, a a hundred milligrams would be a tremendously high dose. Ah, it turns out is only 15 milligrams in that particular pillar capsule or up to 400 times more than what's listed on the bottle.

1 (22m 21s):
So it's completely unregulated. And so for those of you taking Melatonin, I will discuss it at the end of the Podcast some other potential alternatives that are probably safer and don't have these issues. So should you take Melatonin? My personal bias is no, but for many people they find that it does help them. And so if you do find it helps you then just consider what I'm saying in light of the other practices that you are doing and talk to your healthcare professional. Okay. So the rhythm of cortisol and melatonin is what we call endogenous it's happening in us all the time without any external input. In fact, if we were in complete darkness, living in a cave with no artificial lights whatsoever, or we were in complete brightness where we never experienced any darkness, these rhythms of cortisol and Melatonin would continue.

1 (23m 14s):
You would have a bump in cortisol or a pulse in cortisol that would drop off with time. And then Melatonin would come up about 12 to 14 hours later. But these indogenous systems of our body, which are both hormonal and neural were Set so that external things could govern when they happen. Now, this takes us back to episode one of the podcast that if you haven't listened to already, you might want to listen to where we talked about sensation and perception and all that. I'm not going to review it again here, but there's one particular sensory event, one particular influence on your nervous system that determines when that cortisol is going to start to rise.

1 (23m 58s):
So if you were in complete darkness, it would happen once per 24 hour cycle, but it would be somewhat later and later each day, whereas on a normal, under normal circumstances, what happens is you wake up and what happens when you wake up, you open your eyes. When you open your eyes, Light comes into your eyes. Now the way the system works is that you have a particular set of neurons in your either called the retinal ganglion cells. You don't have to remember that if you don't want to, but these retinal ganglion cells are brain neurons. Again, the retina is just the one piece of your brain actually to pieces because most of you have to retinas that resides outside the Skull per se.

1 (24m 42s):
When light comes into the eye, there is a particular group of retinal ganglion cells are type of retinal ganglion cells that perceives a particular type of Light and communicates that to this Clock that resides right above the roof of your mouth called the super charismatic nucleus. OK. So I know this can go a little complicated, but these retinal ganglion cells, when you open your eyes, light comes in and an electrical signal is sent to this central clock. We call the super charismatic nucleus and the super charismatic nucleus has connections with essentially every cell and organ of your body. Now it's vitally important that we get Light communicated to the central clock in order to time The cortisol.

1 (25m 26s):
And Melatonin Properly when I say Properly, I can say that with confidence because we know based on a lot of evidence that if you don't get your cortisol and melatonin rhythms, right, there are tremendously broad and Bad effects on cardiovascular health, dementia, metabolic effects, learning depression, dementia in fact are so many negative effects associated with getting this wrong. That I didn't want to go into it in too much detail. In fact, I feel like we've been bombarded with all this information about how we are not sleeping. Well, we are not sleeping. And the right times we are not sleeping enough to the point where people now have Sleep anxiety. They, they, if they can't sleep well for a night, they are feeling overwhelmed by that.

1 (26m 9s):
And sort of now they're stressed about not being able to sleep, which is making it harder to sleep, et cetera. I really want to focus on what we can do to anchor these systems. Properly so let's think about what happens when we do this correctly and how to do it correctly. When we wake up our eyes open. Now, if we're in a dark room, there isn't enough light to trigger the correct timing of this cortisol Melatonin thing. This rhythms you might say, well, why won't any light do it? Well, it turns out that these neurons in our eye that set the circadian clock and then allow our circadian clock to Set all of the clocks of all of the cells and organs and tissues of our body Body responds best to a particular quality of light and amount of light.

1 (26m 57s):
And those are the qualities of light and amount of light that come from sunlight Light. So these neurons, what they are really looking for are, although they don't have the mind of their own, is that the sun at what we call Low solar angle, the eye and the nervous system don't know anything about sunrises or sunsets. It only knows the quality of light that comes in when the sun is Low in the sky. The system evolved so that when the sun has low in the sky, there is a particular contrast between yellows Blue's that triggers the activation of these cells. So if you will Up and you look at your phone or your computer, or you flip on a bunch of artificial light.

1 (27m 36s):
So will the cells be activated in the end answer is sort of, they'll be activated, but not in the optimal way. What you want to do is get sunlight in your eyes as close to waking as possible. And I want to be really clear about this because I've talked about it in other podcasts when I was a guest and I've talked about it on my Instagram feed, and there seem to be the same question is coming up again. And again, these neurons don't know sunlight, per se. They don't know sunrise rise or sunset for that matter. They don't no artificial light from sunlight. What they respond best to however, is the quality and amount of light that comes in when the sun is Low in the sky.

1 (28m 16s):
That means that if you can watch the sunrise great, that's perfect for triggering activation of these cells. However, For, if you wake up a few hours after the sunrise, which I tend to, most days personally, you still want to get outside and view sunlight. You don't need the sunlight beaming you directly in the eyes. There's a lot of photons, light energy that scattered from sunlight at this time. But the key is to get that light energy from sunlight, ideally into your eyes. Now I know many of you are already asking, well, I live in Scandinavia or I can't get sunlight. There is buildings around me, et cetera. We will get to all of that, but it's critically important that you get outside to get this.

1 (28m 59s):
Light at a discussion with a colleague of mine, Dr. Jamie Zinsser who's in this department of psychiatry and behavioral science. So at Stanford expert in this, and he tells me that it 50 times less effective to view the sunlight through a window through a day, a car windshield, or through a side window of a car than it is to just get outside with no sunglasses and view. Light early in the day. Now, if you can't see the sunrise, like I said, you can see this within an hour or two of sunrise, but it has to be low solar angle. Once the sun is overhead, the quality of light shifts so that you missed this opportunity to time cortisol pulse.

1 (29m 43s):
And that turns out to be a bad thing to do you really want to time that cortisol pulse Properly because we'll get into this a little bit more later, but a late shifted cortisol pulse in particularly in 9:00 PM or 8:00 PM increase in cortisol is one of the consequences. And maybe one of the causes of a lot of anxiety disorders and depression. So its kind of a chicken egg thing. We don't know whether or not it's that correlated with it's the cause or the effect, but it's a signature of depression and anxiety disorder. Bringing that cortisol pulse earlier in your wakeful period earlier in your day has positive benefits ranging from blood pressure to a mental health, et cetera.

1 (30m 26s):
They're not going to list them all off because they're just so many of them, but many, many positive things happen when you are getting the cortisol early in the day, far away from your Melatonin pulse. Okay. So how long should you be outside? Well, this is going to vary tremendously because some people live in environments where it's very bright. So let's say a it's Colorado in the middle of winter, there's a snow field. There's no cloud cover and you walk outside. You there's going to be so much photon, light energy arriving on your retina. That it probably only takes 30 to 60 seconds to trigger their central clock. And Set your cortisol and Melatonin rhythms Properly and get everything in a lined up nicely.

1 (31m 7s):
Whereas if you're in Scandinavia and the depths of winter and you wake up at 5:00 AM and the sun is just barely creeping across the horizon, then goes back down again. A few hours later, you probably are not getting enough sunlight in order to set these rhythms. So many people find that they need to use sunlight simulators in the form of particular lights that were designed to simulate sunlight. However, I'm not out to attack the companies that produce those. There's another solution to that. You can simply go outside for longer. Even if there is a lot of dense cloud cover, you're probably getting anywhere from 10,000 to 50,000 Lux, L U X was just a measure of light energy and that should be sufficient to set the circadian clock.

1 (31m 56s):
You could say, well, the light's in my house or my phone are really, really bright, right? Everyone is telling us to stay on our phones at night because they're really bright. But guess what? It turns out that early in the day, your retina is not very sensitive, which means you need a lot of photons. Ideally coming from sunlight to set these Clock mechanisms. So looking at your phone or artificial lights is fine. If you wake up before sunrise, but it's not going to work to set these Clock mechanisms. And this is supported by dozens. If not hundreds of quality, peer reviewed studies. So you wanna use sunlight. If you can see sunlight because of your environment, then you are going to have to opt for artificial light.

1 (32m 37s):
And in that case, you're going to want an light that either simulate sunlight or has a lot of blue light now, without going off course here, you might be saying, wait, I've heard blue light as bad for me. Actually Blue Light Is Great for this mechanism during the day, we can talk about blue light and blue blockers, but you know, you really want a lot of blue and yellow. Light arriving on the retina early in the day. Let me be clear about something you never ever want to look at any light sunlight or artificial light that is painful to look at. If you find that your eyes are watering, are you are having challenges in maintaining, you know, looking at this thing for a while because it was painful.

1 (33m 17s):
That light is too bright and you do not want to damage your retina. So you don't want to gaze at the son, you know, refusing to blink and burn your Real. No, no that's actually possible to do. You don't want to do that. You have a proper blink reflex installed in you since birth. And if you feel like something's too bright in, you need to blink. That means you need to blink that it's too much, too much light. So please don't beam your eyes with a really bright light, but Blue Light in particular Blue Light and yellow lights coming from sunlight is ideal. If you're going to get it from artificial light because you can't get enough sunlight. Well then artificial lights that are rich in Blue blue wavelengths are going to be ideal for setting this mechanism.

1 (33m 58s):
Lot of people will say, Oh, I should be wearing blue blockers throughout the day. No, that's the exact wrong thing. You, if you're going to use blue blockers, we can talk about that. That should be reserved for late in the evening because light suppresses Melatonin I've been asked many times before about this pineal gland and there are a lot of ancient practices that map to some of the things that I'm saying and people always say, Oh, I heard that sunlight is great for the Pineal. Well, perhaps, but we have to be careful about that phrase. Sunlight inhibits the Pineal. It prevents it from releasing Melatonin darkness allows the Pineal to release melatonin.

1 (34m 38s):
So the Pineal is not the gland or the Oregon of sunlight. It is the gland of darkness. In fact, Melatonin can be thought of as a sleepiness signal, that's correlated with darkness. So get up each morning, try and get outside. I know that can be challenging for people, but anywhere from two to 10 minutes of sunlight, exposure is going to work well for most people. And you want to do this on a regular basis and you don't have to do it exactly at sunrise. I realize I'm repeating myself, but somehow despite barking at people about this for a couple years now, I keep getting the same questions and somehow it hasn't been sinking in M, which could be related to some circadian disorder. I'm just kidding if its not sinking in, it's probably that I'm not being effective in communicating the information, but get that bright light early in the day from sunlight.

1 (35m 26s):
And if you can't get it from sunlight, get it from artificial light. What kinds of artificial lights will work? Well, there are the sunlight, sunrise simulators, but the ring lights that people use for M selfies and the sort of thing for posting on Instagram, those generate a lot of blue light. If you want to get experimental about this, there is a free app. I have no relationship to the app, but it's a great app called Light meter that you can use your phone and you can measure the amount of photon energy in your environment and its kind of a fun experiment to do. You can go outside in the morning and you'll see that there's 10,000, 20,000 Lux. Even though it might seem like its kind of dim or there's tree cover or cloud cover, you go inside and you shine that the Up not artificial light at your phone, press the button on Light meter.

1 (36m 9s):
And you'll find that it's only 500 or a thousand bucks. And you realize that even though it seems really bright, the artificial light is a very condensed, whereas the outside light is scattered in the atmosphere. And so you can think that you're not getting much sunlight, but you're actually getting much more outside. So get outside, get that sunlight early in the day and try and do it on a consistent basis. If you can't do it every day or you sleep through this period of the early day, Low solar angle, don't worry about it. The systems in the body, these hormone systems in neurotransmitter systems that make you Awake at certain periods of the day and Sleep at other times are operating by averaging. When you view the brightest light.

1 (36m 50s):
Now that can immediately tell us that what most people are doing is terrible. They are waking up in, they are looking at their phone, which is in triggering activation of these cells in the eye and the central circadian clock. Then a few hours later, they might get in their car with sunglasses in Dr now a note about sunglasses and prescription lenses,

2 (37m 9s):
Absolutely

1 (37m 10s):
Never, ever, ever compromise safety for the sorts of things I'm talking about. So if you need to wear sunglasses for safety reasons, wear them. Absolutely. If you were a prescription lenses or contacts wear them, they won't filter out the wavelengths of light that are necessary for setting these central clocks.

2 (37m 26s):
So safety first of course,

1 (37m 28s):
If you have a retinal degenerative disorder, retinitis, pigmentosa, macular degeneration, or glaucoma or those running in your family, you want to avoid excessively bright light all the time. You want to be very cautious about that. You are going to want to get your Light exposure by through seeing a dimmer light, including the sunlight, but for longer periods of time, perhaps you might immediately ask what about low vision or Blind People how did they set these central Clock? Well, it turns out that Low vision and Blind peoples, most of them provided they still have eyes. The eyes weren't removed because of a burn or a tumor or something like that. Still maintain these neurons that set the circadian clock, which brings me to a really important, important point.

1 (38m 10s):
It's not about seeing and perceiving the sun. This is a subconscious mechanism by which these neurons which are called melanopsin ganglion cells, these neurons Set your central clocks by getting activated by the particular wavelengths of light that are present in the atmosphere, even coming through cloud cover and you don't need to see or perceive the son in order to get this mechanism to start. Now, it's such a vitally important mechanism because it dictates how well and what time you will want to fall asleep later in the day. So for those of you that are night owls and you insist that you are a night owl, when you have the genetic polymorphism that makes you a night owl, you may very well have that genetic polymorphism, those genes that make you want to stay up late and wake up late.

1 (38m 59s):
But chances are about half of you that think that you are night. Owls are just not getting enough sunlight early in the day. So viewing Light early in the day, ideally sunlight is key for establishing healthy sleep, wake rhythms. And for allowing you to fall asleep easily at night, no, it's not going to make sure that all of that happens every single time, but it is the foundation of proper sleep and what we call circadian health. It governs metabolism. And so many other things that are supposed to exist on a regular 24 hour cycle. Some of you, many of you might be asking what else can help Set this rhythm while it turns out that Light is what we call the primaries as I gave her the time giver.

1 (39m 44s):
But other things can help establish this rhythm of cortisol followed by Melatonin 12 to 16 hours later as well. The other things besides Light are timing of food intake, timing of Exercise as well as various drugs or chemicals that one might ingest, not illegal drugs, although those will impact or Katie and mechanism's as well. But the reason we focus so heavily on light is that light is the main way that the central Clock, the super charismatic nucleus was supposed to be Set. We know that because it's the only direct input to the Clock these neurons in the I that are also a part of the brain that we call melanopsin ganglion cells that not.

1 (40m 28s):
So incidentally were discovered by my friend and colleague David Burson at Brown university and others <inaudible>, et cetera, worked out the mechanisms, the molecular mechanisms, but it was really David Berson that discovered these incredibly fascinating nones. You know, these are cells that aren't important for Site like pattern Vision. But our first setting are clocks. David's really credited with making that discovery. Those cells are the main way and the only direct way to set the Clock. In fact, its fair to say that Light viewed by these melanopsin cells. Particular sunlight is a thousand to 10,000 times more effective than say getting up in darkness and just exercising.

1 (41m 16s):
That doesn't mean that you shouldn't exercise early in the day in darkness. If that's what you like to do, it will have somewhat an effect on raising your wakefulness early in the day and setting this up these rhythms. And this has because of some other pathways for the aficionados out there, I want to know more neuroscience. Here's how it goes. You've got this, Clock above the roof of your mouth, that churns out this 24 hour rhythm and is communicated to all the other organs and tissues of your body. But there's another structure has a cool name. It's called the intergenic culet leaflet, which sits a few millimeters away in the brain. And it's involved in regulating the Clock output through what's called non-photo a non Light type influences like Exercise and feeding, et cetera.

1 (41m 58s):
So if you are not feeling awake during the day and you're having trouble sleeping, get the sunlight exposure that we just talked about. But in addition to that, if you want to become an early riser for instance, and you want to feel more awake during the early part of the day, by getting that Light exposure and exercising earlier in the day, you will, after two or three days, you will naturally start to wake up earlier in the day. And that's because of these Clock mechanisms have shifted. It's like setting the Clock earlier as opposed to the Lang in the Clock. And that takes us to a somewhat complicated, but very important aspect to all this, which is what sets the clock and keeps it anchored.

1 (42m 39s):
The main thing is that bright light early in the day. The other thing is Sunset when the sun is also at a low solar angle, Low close to the horizon by viewing sunlight at that time of day in the evening or afternoon, depending on what time of year it is. And where are you are in the world? These melanopsin cells, these neurons in your eyes signal, the central circadian clock. That's the end of the day. And there is a really nice study that was published last year. And I will put links to these references on a website, not too long from now, there was a really nice study that showed that viewing sunlight around the time of the Sunset. It doesn't have to be just crossing the Ryzen, but circa Sunset within an hour or so of Sunset prevents some of the bad effects of Light in preventing Melatonin Release later that same night.

1 (43m 34s):
So let me repeat this viewing Light early in the day as key viewing Light later in the day when the sun is setting or around that time can help protect these mechanisms, your brain and body against the negative effects of Light later in the day. So let me talk about how you would do that. You'd go view the sunset or you would go outside in the late afternoon or evening. Again, if you safely can do that with sunglasses off, you will, if you need to wear sunglasses fine, but it will take probably a hundred, two a thousand times longer with dark sunglasses. Then if you take them off again, if you want to do this through a window at work, that's fine, but take 50 times longer. So the best thing to do is just to get outside for a few minutes, anywhere from two to 10 minutes also in the afternoon, having those two signals arriving to your central clock that your body or your internal world knows when it's morning, a nose went to evening is tremendously powerful.

1 (44m 28s):
Maybe think about it this way. Every cell in your body needs glucose and energy. It needs whether or not it gets that for me, or it gets it from ketones where it gets it from carbohydrates It or fruit vegetables, does it matter? It is eventually converted into a certain form of energy that all your cells use, but you don't take glucose. You don't take a bread or a steak or a nice orange and shove it in your ear. You put it in your mouth that goes into your stomach, it's digested. And then that, that resource is distributed to all the cells of your body. Every cell in your body needs oxygen. And you don't put a hose, you know, through your nostril are through your ear or through some of the orifice in your body. You inhale air and it's then distributed via the lungs to the cells in your bloodstream.

1 (45m 12s):
In that it's distributed to all the organs of your body, every cell and organ in your body needs Light information. And the way to get that Light information to all of those cells. 'cause you have a thick Skull and dark. You know, the inside of you is dark inside your skin. There's no sunlight getting in there is by viewing sunlight with your eyes at the two times of day that I'm referring to. Okay? And that's the only route. There was a study published in science, an excellent journal a well over 10 years ago that showed that light shown on the back of the knee could set these, the circadian rhythms that study was retracted. And unfortunately, most people don't know that it was retracted.

1 (45m 53s):
There were some experimental flaws that people are actually viewing Light through their eyes. That study was repeated. It turns out there is no extra ocular Photo reception in humans, whatever somebody tells you that Light to the skin or light to the wherever is beneficial for your health. We can talk about that, but there's no way that Light information is setting your clocks. You need to the cells in your eyes to perceive where to see a light at the particular times a day, that I'm referring to some animals like snakes and other reptiles actually have a hole in the top of there Skull to get light information directly to their Pineal wear to suppress Melatonin. We don't have that hole, man.

1 (46m 34s):
Most of you don't have Holes in your Skull. These Holes in your Skull that we call the socket's for the I's are actually there primarily to allow light information to the central clock and then vision and pattern, vision in color Vision came much later and evolution. We know that it's on the basis of genetics studies we could to discuss and a future podcast. So we get that Light information too. The cells of your brain and body by viewing sunlight at the two times a day that I referred to, there's always a lot of questions about how long, how much, how do I know if I've had enough? You'll know because your rhythm will start to fall into some degree of normalcy. You'll start to wake up at more or less the same time each day, you'll fall asleep more easily at night.

1 (47m 17s):
Generally it takes about two or three days for these systems to Aline. So if you have not been doing these behaviors, it's going to take a few days, but they can have tremendous benefits. And sometimes rather quickly on a number of different mental and physical aspects of your health. Now let's talk about the Bad effects of light because light is not supposed to arrive in our system at any time. And nowadays, because of screens and artificial light, we have access to light at times of day and night that normally we wouldn't now earlier, I said that you need a lot of Light in particular sunlight to Set these Clock mechanisms. That is true, but there's a kind of diabolical feature to the way all this works, which is the longer you've been awake, the more sensitive your retina and the cells are to light so that if you've been Awake for 10 or 12, 14 hours, it becomes very easy for even a small amount of light coming from a screen or from an overhead light to trigger the activation of the Clock and make you feel like you want to stay up later, making it harder to fall asleep and disrupt your sleep pattern.

1 (48m 27s):
OK. So the simple way to think about this is you want as much Light as, as safely possible early in the day morning and throughout the day, including blue light. So take those blue blockers off during the day, unless you have a real issue with screen light sensitivity, and you want as little Light coming into your eyes, artificial or sunlight after say 8:00 PM. And certainly you do not want to get bright light exposure to your eyes between 11:00 PM and 4:00 AM. And here's why David Burson, who I mentioned before and another friend and colleague simmer Hitar who's director of the chronobiology unit at the national institutes of mental health, published a paper in cell, which is a journal, another excellent journal, very high stringency, showing that light, that arrives to the eyes between 11:00 PM and 4:00 AM approximately suppresses the release of dopamine.

1 (49m 20s):
This neuromodulator that makes us feel good as sort of an ant indogenous anticip, a depressant and can inhibit learning and create all sorts of other detrimental effects. It does this through a mechanism for those of you want to know the neural pathways that involves light to the eyes, that's then signaled to a structure called the <inaudible>. The Habana looks like two little bat ears sitting right in the middle of your structure, your brain called the thalamus. Don't worry about these names. If you're not interested in this stuff, if you are, those are just the avenues to explore When that have Benbella gets activated. It's actually called the disappointment nucleus because it actually makes us feel less happy and more disappointed and can lead to certain forms of depression in the wakeful state.

1 (50m 2s):
Now, if you wake up in the middle of the night, you need to use the bathroom or you're on an all night flight and you're, you know, you're need to read or whatever it is fine. It's you know, every once in a while, it's not gonna be a problem to get bright light exposure to your eyes in the middle of the night. But if you think about our lifestyle now-a-days and being up late, looking at phones, even if you Dem that screen, you're triggering this activation because your retinal sensitivity and the sensitivity of these neurons has gone up late in the day. Now I'm not here to dictate why you should or shouldn't do, but for those of you that are experiencing challenges with mood, those of you that have anxiety, learning problems, issues, focusing the questions I usually get, or how can I focus better? Well, we will get to that, but one of the best ways you can support your mechanisms for a good mood, mental health learning focus, metabolism, et cetera, is to take control of this Light exposure behavior at night and not get much or any bright light exposure in the middle of the night.

1 (50m 60s):
Red light won't trigger this pathway, but very few people have that kind of infrared lights that are set up or floor lights. And that brings me to an important point, which is about the Location of Light. This hasn't been discussed much out there. I don't think these cells in our I these neurons, that signal the central Clock reside, mostly not exclusively, but mostly in the bottom half of our retina. And because we have a lens in front of our retina and because of the optics of lenses, that means that the cells are actually viewing our upper visual field. There's an inversion of the visual image. Etcetera. You can look that up. If you want to learn more about a retinal optics, it's fascinating, but not the topic for today.

1 (51m 41s):
The cells are in the bottom half of your retina mostly. And so their viewing the overhead visual space around you, this is probably not coincidentally that a lot cells were essentially designed to detect sunlight, which is overhead, of course. So if you want to avoid it, improper activation of these neurons, it's better to place lights that you use in the evening, low in your physical environment. So on desktops or even the floor, if, if that's, if you want to go that way, as opposed to the overhead lights. So overhead fluorescent lights would be the worst.

1 (52m 21s):
That would be the worst case scenario lights that our overhead that are in a little bit softer of this, or a yellow or radish tints would be slightly better, but dim lights that are set Low in the room are going to be best because they aren't going to activate these neurons and therefore shift your circadian clock. So that's a goal. Some people like Sammer that Hotjar that I mentioned earlier, he turns his home basically into a cave in the evenings. Candlelight actually does not trigger activation of these cells. So Candlelight and fireplaces and campfires are, are fine. M dim lights, very dim lights are fine and lights Low in the physical environment. Of course, the problem with Candlelight and fireplaces is the fire hazard, but your smart people, you know what to do about that.

1 (53m 8s):
Don't burn down whatever structure you're in, including for us, please. So keep the lights low in your environment. What if you wake up in the middle of the night and did you find yourself watching TV or on the computer? And in that case, you might want to wear blue blockers and you certainly would want to dim the screen, but ideally you're not doing that. It's remarkable. The positive effects of getting that bit of sunlight early in the day, maybe even also around Sunset and avoiding bright lights and especially overhead bright lights between about 11:00 PM and 4:00 AM. Now I'm not talking about shift work. I'm realizing that we're probably going to have to have an entire discussion devoted just to shift workers, because there's some good information there about how they can protect themselves against some of the very bad health effects of shift work, getting Light in the middle of the night, but we rely on shift workers in their super important to culture and society in the economy.

1 (54m 3s):
So I want to acknowledge them and let you know that we will do a, a discussion about shift work and jet lag. But let's talk about what light can do in terms of shifting us in healthy ways. So the way to think about this whole system again, is you've got to Denison and building up depending on how long you've been awake and its making you sleepy. And then you get their circadian mechanisms that are Timing your wakefulness and timing when you want to be asleep, mainly through cortisol and melatonin. But there are a bunch of other things that are downstream of cortisol. Melatonin like we tend to be hungry or during our wakeful period, then late at night, some people like to eat it late at night, but if you're finding that you can't become a day person or a morning person shifting your light exposure Exercise and food intake to the daytime will help.

1 (54m 53s):
Some people like to stop eating around six or 8:00 PM because of ma metabolic reasons or their trying to maintain their weight or lose weight. That's actually not supported so well by the literature. The literature around nutrition essentially says that it's best to restrict your feeding to a certain period of each 24 hour cycle to not be eating around the clock and whether or not that's for hours are eight hours or 16 hours is a firm is a much lengthier discussion than we have time for. Now. I would refer you to a Satchin Panda's book, the circadian code, which talks all about that. He's an expert, a former colleague of mine from the Salk Institute in San Diego, you can explore intermittent and circadian faceting.

1 (55m 33s):
So to speak through Sachin's literature. We'll talk about that. We might even get Sachin in here if we're, if we're lucky at some point in the future, but you can actually use Light to wake up Earlier Jamie's ICER and colleagues did a beautiful study is showing that if you turn on the lights before waking up is around 45 minutes to an hour before waking up, even if your eyelids are closed, provided, you're not under the covers. After doing that for a few days, that increases your total sleep time and shifts forward the time at what you feel sleepy. It makes you want to go to bed earlier each night. Now on a kind of a diabolical way, they did this with teenagers.

1 (56m 14s):
Who'd are notorious for wanting to wake up late in, stay up late. What they found was a bright light flashes, just turning the lights in there, environment, overhead lights cause their trying to the system. And that's why they're using overhead lights. Even though the eyelids before these kids woke up, then made those kids naturally want to go to bed earlier and they ended up sleeping longer. So that's something that you could try. You can put your lights on a timer to go on. M early in the day, before you wake up, you could open your blinds so that sunlight is coming through. And again, if you curl up under the covers, then it's not going to reach these neurons, but it's remarkable. The light can actually penetrate the eyelids, activate these neurons and go to the central Clock that study illustrates a really important principal of how you're built, which is you have the capacity for what are called phase advances and phase delays.

1 (57m 5s):
And I don't want to complicate this too much. So the simplest way to think about phase advances is in phase delays is that if you see Light late in the day in a particular, in the middle of the night, your brain and body, for reasons that now you understand.