0 (0s):
Welcome to the Huberman Lab Podcast where we discuss science and science-based tools for everyday life. I'm Andrew Huberman, and I'm a professor of neurobiology and ophthalmology at Stanford School of Medicine. Today my guest is Dr. Nome Sobel. Dr. Nome Sobel is a professor of neurobiology in the Department of Brain Sciences at the Weisman Institute of Science. His laboratory studies, olfaction and chemo sensation olfaction is of course our sense of smell. Chemo sensation is our ability to respond to chemicals in our environment. Today, you are going to learn some absolutely incredible facts about how you interact with the world and other people around you.

0 (40s):
For instance, you will learn that humans can smell things around them as well as dogs can. In fact, humans are incredibly good at sensing the chemical world around them. You also learn, for instance, that every time you meet somebody, you are taking chemicals from that person, either from the chemical cloud that surrounds them or directly from the surface of their body, and you are actually applying it to your own body, and you are processing information about that person's chemicals to determine many things about them, including how stressed they are, their hormone levels, things that operate at a subconscious level on your brain and nervous system, and that impact your emotions, your decision making, and who you choose to relate to or not to relate to.

0 (1m 24s):
You'll also learn that tears. Yes, the tears of others are impacting your hormone levels in powerful ways. You will also learn that every so often actually on a regular schedule, there is an alternation of ease through which you can breathe through one nostril or the other, and that alternation reflects an underlying dynamic of your nervous system and has a lot to do with how alert or sleepy you happen to be. The list of things that Dr. No Sobol's laboratory has discovered that relate to everyday life and that are going to make you say, wow, I can't believe that happens, but then go out into the real world and actually observe that that happens in ways that are incredibly interesting, just goes on and on.

0 (2m 7s):
In fact, his laboratory discovered that we are always sensing our own odors. That's right. Even though you might not notice your own smell, you are always sensing your own odor cloud, and throughout the day, you periodically smell yourself deliberately, even though you might not realize it in order to change your cognition and behavior. I first learned of Dr. Sowell's laboratory through a rather odd observance that observance took place when I was a graduate student many years ago at uc, Berkeley. At the time, Noma Sobel was a professor at uc, Berkeley. As I mentioned before, you since moved to the Weisman. Well, I was walking through the Berkeley campus and I saw people on their hands and knees, but with their head very close to the ground, and their eyes were covered, their hands were covered, their mouths were covered, and only their nose was exposed.

0 (2m 53s):
And what I was observing was an experiment being conducted by the sole laboratory in which humans were following a scent trail. That scent trail was actually buried some depth underneath the earth, and yet they could follow that scent trail with a high degree of fidelity. It was from that experiment and other experiments done in Dr. SOL's laboratory at Berkeley and at the Weisman involving neuroimaging and a number of other tools and techniques that revealed the incredible power of human olfaction and human's ability to follow scent trails if they need to. And that, of course, led to many other important discoveries, some of which I alluded to a few moments ago. But you are going to learn about many, many other important discoveries in the realm of olfaction and chemo sensation that have been carried out by Dr.

0 (3m 37s):
Silver's laboratory through the course of today's episode. And by the end of today's episode, I assure you that you will never look at or smell the world around you the same way again. Before we begin, I'd like to emphasize that this podcast is separate from my teaching and research roles at Stanford. It is, however, part of my desire and effort to bring zero cost to consumer information about science and science related tools to the general public. In keeping with that theme, I'd like to thank the sponsors of today's podcast.

ROKA (4m 3s):
Our first sponsor is Roka. Roka makes eyeglasses and sunglasses that are of the absolute highest quality. I've spent a lifetime working on the biology, the visual system, and I can tell you that your visual system has to contend with an enormous number of challenges in order for you to be able to see clearly. Roca, eyeglasses, and sunglasses were designed with the biology of the visual system in mind. So no matter whether or not you're wearing them for sport, whether or not you're wearing them for work or for socializing, you can always see with crystal clarity, their glasses are extremely lightweight, so most of the time you don't even realize that you're wearing them. I wear Roca readers at night, and sometimes when I drive at night and I wear Roka sunglasses throughout the day, except of course, I do not wear them for my morning sunlight viewing. If you'd like to try roka eyeglasses or sunglasses, go to roka, that's rka.com and enter the code huberman to save 20% off your first order. Again, that's rka.com and enter the code huberman at checkout.

Thesis (4m 54s):
Today's episode is also brought to us by thesis. Thesis makes custom neutropics and neutropics is a word that I do not like because it means smart drugs. As a neurobiologist, I can tell you that there is no neural circuit in your brain for being smart. There are neural circuits for focus. There are neural circuits for memory. There are neural circuits for creativity, and there are neural circuits for task switching. Thesis understands that there's a diversity with neural circuits that support different brain body states and therefore have designed neutropics that are customized to achieve specific brain body states. If you go to the thesis website and take a brief quiz, they will design a neutropic starter kit. Some of those neutropics that they'll send you are designed to enhance your focus, others for clarity, others for creativity, and so on. To get your own personalized Neutropic starter kit, you can go to take thesis.com/huberman and take a three minute quiz and thesis will send you four different formulas to try in your first month. That's take thesis.com/huberman and use the code huberman checkout to get 10% off your first order.

Helix (5m 53s):
Today's episode is also brought to us by Helix Sleep. Helix Sleep makes customized mattresses and pillows that allow you to get the best possible night's sleep. So if you go to the Helix website, you can take a very brief quiz. It only takes about two minutes and answer questions such as, do you tend to sleep on your back or your side or your stomach? Do you tend to run hot or cold throughout the night? Maybe you don't know the answers to those questions, but they'll match you to a mattress that's ideal for your sleep needs. For me, that was the dusk D u SK mattress, which is not too firm and not too soft, and I've been sleeping on it for more than two years, and it's the best sleep that I've ever had. If you'd like to try a helix mattress, go to helix sleep.com/huberman, take that two minute quiz and they'll match you to a customized mattress, and you'll get up to $350 off any mattress order and two free pillows. Again, if you're interested, you can go to helix sleep.com/huberman for up to $350 off and two free pillows.

0 (6m 44s):
And now for my discussion with Dr. Nome Sobel, Dr. Sobel Nome, welcome. Thank you. Must say, I am extremely excited for this conversation. I've been a huge fan of your work for more than a decade or two. Yes,

2 (6m 58s):
Kind of frightening. Yeah. But yeah, we

0 (7m 1s):
Overlapped at uc, Berkeley some time ago, although we did not meet, and

2 (7m 6s):
Although we lived in the same apartment,

0 (7m 7s):
And we just learned that the amazing apartment that you moved out of was the apartment that my girlfriend and I at the time moved into in 2006, I believe. So we've shared quite a few things apparently, and today I'd love for you to share with us all about the amazing landscape of chemo sensation, in particular, olfaction or sense of smell, and some related perceptual abilities or subconscious abilities, including pheromones, et cetera. To get everybody on the same page, I'd like to just start off by asking what are the major components of our ability to smell, obviously, or I like to think it involves the nose at some level, it does.

0 (7m 51s):
To what extent is that mixed in with other senses like taste, and perhaps more importantly, what about the chemicals that we are sensing through this thing? And for those of you listening and not watching, I'm tapping my nose that we are not aware of, you know, the, the chemicals that are, that we're inhaling and making sense of without our awareness. Now, if you could just give us the top contour or even deep contour, if you like, of the the parts list and the various roles they play. So

2 (8m 25s):
You, you've asked a lot of questions at once. You know, I'll start with a little comment on the way you, you, you said, smelling through our nose, which we indeed do, but we also smell through our mouth. Actually, there's a process referred to as retronasal olfaction, where odorants come up through our, the back of our throat and out of our nose the reverse way. And we smell things that way as well. And in fact, a big part of the contribution of al faction to food and taste comes from that, from retronasal olfaction. But primary olfaction is referred to as ortho nasals Alion. That is through our nose. We sniff and sniffing is a big thing.

2 (9m 5s):
Well, I have a sense we might talk about that a lot today in all sorts of contexts. So we sniff in through our nose and to answer your general question of the organization, of the system, so molecules, airborne molecules travel up our nose, a distance in the human of about six or seven centimeters to about here where they interact with, I will u use the word sheet of receptors, but sheet is a bit misleading here. It's not a sheet, it's very convoluted. We have about 7 million such receptors lining a structure known as the olfactory epithelium. This is the sensory surface of the olfactory system.

2 (9m 45s):
The olfactory epithelium, again, about probably about six or 7 million receptors in the human, in the human probably of about 350 different kinds. So that's amazing. That means a, a meaningful percentage of your genome is devoted just to this, just to the kinds of all factory receptor subtypes you have in your nose. By the way, I can share an amusing story. I would imagine amusing stories are good for podcasts. So that number of six or 7 million receptors I is probably not very well grounded. It's hard to count, but it's reasonably grounded. And there was this thing roaming around in the literature about bloodhounds having a billion receptors in their nose, which is why they're so amazing.

2 (10m 32s):
And this number was, you know, it sort of propagated through the literature and, and our lab has written over the years, a few review chapters. And, and we were repeatedly writing the olfaction chapter for a very large one of these large textbooks, the Zanega Handbook of Cognitive Neuroscience, I think it's called. And, and we had that in there as well somewhere. And, and one time when we were renewing the chapter for a new version of the book, I told the graduate student who was leading that at the time, ARRA Shun, she's now a, a professor at Tel Aviv University. I told her, check that, check that reference out, where in the world did that come from? And we started going back and back and back, and it turns out it comes from a textbook, an Australian textbook.

2 (11m 19s):
And we found the author of the textbook and, and we wrote her and I said, look, there's this thing in, in the literature of a billion receptors in in the bloodhound. Where did that come from? And and surprisingly she answered me. And you know, I was hoping to get a reference, right? But it wasn't reference. And and this is where it really becomes funny for us, because she said, I, I, I was once at a lecture of an all faction, geneticist, geneticist by the name of Deron Lancet, and he said that in the lecture. Now, this is really funny because she's in Australia, this is all over the world, this number, and I'm writing her from Israel. And Doron Lance said, is in the building next to me. Okay? He's in, in Whitesman Institute genetics.

2 (12m 1s):
I mean, he used to be, he's, he's retired now. And, and he, he had meaningful contributions in the history of wolf faction. So I picked up the internal phone and, and I said, Hey, Deron, you know, did you say that there's a billion receptors in the bloodhound noses? And he said, what's a bloodhound? And so this is totally made up, right? It totally made up. And it propagated. I mean, you can, you can probably go into Google and type like a billion receptors in the bloodhound and, and you'll get a lot of hits, but there was absolutely no evidence for that.

0 (12m 33s):
Amazing. And not just amazing in light of what it, it tells us about olfaction and bloodhounds or otherwise, but amazing because it sheds light on just how much of what is in textbooks, scientific and medical is absolutely wrong things,

2 (12m 47s):
Things propagate and, and you know, you cite yourself and Right. So we fixed that in, in that version of that, right. Of the, and, and so to finish the line so that, so, so odorants interact with these receptors here in our epithelium where they undergo what is referred to as transduction, that is the odorants are dock or receptor and turn into a neural signal or, or enforce the receptor to respond in a neural signal. And this neural signal, in fact, action potentials, not gradient potentials of any kind, propagates via the olfactory nerve. Now, this is a nerve that goes from our epithelium right here behind

0 (13m 24s):
The forehead.

2 (13m 25s):
No, it, well, yeah, yeah. Here through the thinnest part of our skull, an area referred to as the criber form plate, which is perforated. It has a lot of holes. The nerve goes through those holes and synapses at the first target in the brain, which is the olfactory bulb. And humans, that forms an interesting point of sensitivity because a lot of people lose their sense of smell due to trauma because of that structure.

0 (13m 58s):
Yeah. A head hit type trauma. Well,

2 (13m 60s):
Yes, although you denoted hitting on the front of the head, which is where all this real estate is, but actually the more common cause for losing your sense of smell for trauma is the back of the head because of what's referred to as a contro injury. So as your listeners probably know, our brain is floating in liquid in C S F and cerebral spinal fluid inside our skull. And when we get hit in the back of the head, the brain has this forward and backward movement in the liquid, in, in the skull. It sort of crashes. It can crash against the front of the skull, which is why you also have in a con windy, you also often have frontal damage. But what happens is that this generates a shearing motion on the crib form plate, and the olfactory nerve is severed.

2 (14m 45s):
And if it's completely severed, it's, it's lost

0 (14m 49s):
Forever. Because my, my understanding is that the olfactory sensory neurons can, are among the few central nervous system neurons in adult humans that can regenerate so, or replenish themselves. Right. So,

2 (15m 2s):
So I'll, I'll again, there are a few questions in one. Yeah,

0 (15m 4s):
That's okay.

2 (15m 4s):
We'll, so first

0 (15m 5s):
Of all, we will spin many plates simultaneously.

2 (15m 7s):
If it's completely severed completely, then yes, you're lost forever. Yeah. If it's completely severed, because even if you'll have regeneration at the basal cell level at the epithelium, they won't manage to find their way back to the bulb. If, if you have partial or something left or something shows up in a short while after the injury, then you have a good chance of recovery. Ah,

0 (15m 33s):
Because they grow along the trajectory of the other accents. Yeah. Or pioneering the way for them

2 (15m 38s):
Assumingly. Yeah. Interesting. And, and so, so basically, and, and basically the timeframe, and you know, it's funny, I get a lot of emails on this, although I'm not a medical doctor, but, but I get a lot of emails from people who have lost their sense of smell because it's very distressing. And now more people know this because of covid, that it's very distressing. And, and basically the rule of thumb is that if you don't get it back within a year to year and a half, you'll never get it back.

0 (16m 4s):
My my understanding of the statistics on olfactory loss in covid and, and, and other viral type infections is that, first of all, I had, I experienced that when I got covid,

2 (16m 14s):
Including total ansia for

0 (16m 16s):
One day, and not total, it was just, there was a remnant of an ability to, to smell or se or perceive the smell of a lemon. And I was huffing as hard as I possibly could. So I actually, there's an over-the-counter remedy, and this is not pseudoscience because there's a number of p papers published about this on PubMed that alpha lipoic acid can accelerate the recovery of, of, of smell. Yeah. And I, and so that's something that it worked successfully for me. I'm not saying that that's the only route you don't know if

2 (16m 45s):
It works successfully for you or if you would've recovered anyway. I mean, you didn't do a control study. True.

0 (16m 48s):
But I was not willing to do the control experiment. Exactly.

2 (16m 51s):
So yeah, that, let me say two things on this front. First, the dean on the alpha of poke acid is, yeah, it's,

0 (16m 57s):
It's not overwhelming. Yeah. But, but losing your sense of smell is overwhelming.

2 (17m 1s):
Yeah, no, no, I

0 (17m 2s):
Know. And so, so I think people desperate,

2 (17m 4s):
One word about the smelling the lemon, and this is, I'll take that opportunity to, to share more information when we smell things, it's the result of more sensory subsystems than the olfactory system alone. So you have several chemos sensory sensitive nerves in your nose. A primary one beyond the olfactory nerve is the trigeminal nerve, the fifth cranial nerve. So the trigeminal nerve has sensory endings in your nose, in your throat, and in your eye it has three branches. That's why an onion has smell and burns your eyes and burns in your throat.

0 (17m 39s):
Is that why

2 (17m 39s):
It's trigeminal? Yeah. The

0 (17m 41s):
Tearing of, of cutting an onion is

2 (17m 42s):
Trigeminal. It's a trigeminal reflex.

0 (17m 44s):
Amazing. We talked about trigeminal in the context of headache during a headache episode.

2 (17m 48s):
It's a trigeminal reflex. So the lemon you were smelling may have been a trigeminal sensation. So smelling

0 (17m 56s):
The lemon with my eyes is what

2 (17m 58s):
You're saying? Well, no, with your nose and with my nose, but with your trigeminal receptors and not your olfactory receptors. So in within, you know, olfaction researcher jargon, there's what we refer to as pure olfactors. These are odors that will stimulate your olfactory nerve alone. They won't influence your trigeminal nerve at all. And an example, just to get a sense of what that might be, would be the coffee right here is a pure olifant, vanilla is a known pure olifant. These things have no trigeminal activation,

0 (18m 28s):
Right? As long as we're on this topic, and we'll weave back and forth, but I'm glad we are on this topic because a tremendous number of people wrote to me during the pandemic and continue to about olfactory loss is the, I I've heard of this olfactory training where whereby, if you have a partial or even complete loss of, of primary I faction, right, that one is encouraged to smell a number of different smells. I, I grew up studying activity dependent wiring of the nervous system. It makes total sense to me why keeping neurons active keeps them alive. So this is not fire together, wired together type thing. By the way, that's a quote from Carla Shatz, not Donald Head folks or me, but this is about keeping neurons electrically active, in this case, ol olfactory neurons in order to maintain their connections because otherwise they will die.

2 (19m 19s):
O olfaction is a definite use it or lose it system. And so that makes total sense. And indeed there's very strong evidence for success of, of the training programs more than the alpha poetic acid. Great to know. And, and so that's a real thing. And, and what's cool about that is that you don't need to go out and buy expensive things, although you can, of course there are people who are capitalizing on this commercially already, but you can just take things from your refrigerator or your, or your, you know, makeup cabinet or whatever, and smell them, you know, attentionally and constantly and sniff them. And, and that exposure will help you recover. There is good data on that by now.

2 (19m 59s):
You, you made that point in passing about regeneration in the olfactory system. Indeed, there one, one of the cool things. So, so in olfaction you can, you can study many things through olfaction. Indeed. One of them is, is, is neurore regeneration, because the olfactory neurons are really the only neurons that do that systematically in the adult mammalian brain. And whether the human olfactory system shows the same level of regeneration as it does in, in, in other mammals is and was somewhat questionable. And I'm just bringing that up to share a really cool study that was published in neuron, I think somewhere around 2014 where to address this question.

2 (20m 43s):
I just really like the idea of doing that. What the, what the authors did was look at in, in postmortem, they looked at levels of C 14 in, in adults who were exposed to atomic bomb experiments, right? So you have, you can actually look at these, at these neurons and and time them based on exposure to radiation. And that paper suggested that, that there's not as much turnover in the human oil factory bulb as there is in other mammals, other lines of data suggest otherwise.

2 (21m 25s):
So this is kind of a debated question as to what extent of neurogen degeneration you have in, in the human olfactory system as opposed to other mammals. But, but that was just a really cool paper I think of, of, of doing that. Fascinating. No, I, I, should I finish the, the path just so we please have the, so, so we said, so, so information then synapses at the olfactory bulb from, from the, the olfactory epithelium. And the pattern of that synapsing follows what's referred to as the most extreme case of convergence in the mammalian nervous system. More specifically, what happens is that all the receptors of a given subtype, and remember in humans, we said we have about 350 in the mouse, we have about 1,200 probably.

2 (22m 13s):
So all the receptors of one subtype converge to one location in the bulb. And this location is referred to as a gloms or an PLE glo. And, and that may be a slight oversimplification. It's in fact two glom. There's a mirror, sort of a mirror cutline. And so all the receptors of one subtype will converge to two mirror glom on the olfactory bulb. So you end up having two glomerular that reflect that one receptor subtype. And so if, and this is as far as the, I'm giving you now the textbook view of, of how the system works, but then I can, I'll happily share with you things that pose a problem for the textbook view of how things work.

2 (22m 56s):
But the textbook view of how things work is that every such receptor subtype is responsive to a small subset of different molecular shapes, what's sometimes referred to as oto topes, the molecular aspects of the odorant. So each receptor is, is responsive to a different subset of oto topes, let's say 10. And each tope will activate a different subset of receptors. So potentially you have this insane combinant torics of this potentially 350 dimensional space in the human potentially. But then because of this convergence you end up having on the bulb in a way, a map reflecting or receptor identity.

2 (23m 36s):
So, so let's say this coffee activates receptors of type one, three and seven. So the glom of receptors one, three, and seven will light up, quote unquote when I smell the coffee. And if you could take a snapshot of that, theoretically you would have the map of, of coffee and, and so on and so forth. This, this is sort of the textbook view of how the system works. And, and then information goes from the bulb to several targets in the brain. I mean, what is referred to as primary factory cortex is peripheral cortex and, and inal cortex. This is on the ventral surface of the brain, the lower portion of our temporal lobe. And information goes there directly, but it also goes directly to the amygdala.

2 (24m 16s):
It probably goes directly to the hypothalamus, it may go directly to the cerebellum. It goes all over the brain. So, so information projects widely from there. And as far as people understand the map that may exist on the bulb doesn't exist in the rest of the brain. And the understanding of, of how coding occurs in the rest of the brain is, is murky.

0 (24m 40s):
Commonly one hears that the memories that we have of odors are somehow more robust than the memories of other perceptual events in our life. I, I don't know if this is true or not, but people will say, for instance, I can still remember the smell of my grandmother's hands or the smell of cookies in her kitchen. At a minimum, it points to the fact that smell and memory are closely linked. And you just mentioned a direct, you know, multi station, but nonetheless, somewhat direct path from the nostrils to the hippocampus. One of the primary encoding centers of thees

2 (25m 18s):
Is way Yeah.

0 (25m 19s):
Which is, is which is a remarkably short pathway considering that, for instance, just by example, cuz some of our listeners won't be familiar with this, but some will that sound waves that, you know, are transduced into neural signals at the level of the inner ear go through many stations before they arrive at the location in the brain where we make sense of those sound waves as voices or music, et cetera. Whereas olfaction is a more of a direct route to the, to the memory centers. Is there any just so story or real objective truth to the idea that olfactory memories are formed more easily or maintained longer or more robustly than other sorts of memories?

0 (25m 59s):
So,

2 (25m 59s):
So yes, but first I, I should, I should say that I'm not an authority on all factory memory. It's sort of, it, olfactory memory is a huge field of research and somehow our lab has never really gone much into that. Although, again, the same student I happened to talk about before, Ari Sharon, who's again now a, a faculty at Tel Aviv ran a study, a paper we, I think we published in current biology biology called the Privilege Representation of Early Old Factories Associations. Basically there's something about the first time you experience a smell that generates a particularly robust representation more than other sensory stimuli.

2 (26m 42s):
And, and that's what chain in fact compare. So there's something about the first exposure to a smell in terms of the brain encoding that, that ches it into our being. And and this is an effect that has, you know, it has echoes of course in literature. I mean, you know, the, the, the biggest cliche, this is to bring up the prust effect, right? So the prust effect is when he ate the Madeline and it immediately, the taste and smell immediately reminded him of, of an event in his childhood where, where, where the same Madeline appeared. But, but so, so that's something very real there. There's a lot of research on it not coming from our work.

2 (27m 23s):
So I'm, I'm not an authority,

0 (27m 25s):
But it does sound like there's something special about ol faction. And that doesn't mean that there isn't something special about vision or audition. Each one has its own unique, I'm the

2 (27m 36s):
Last targets that there's something special about all. It's my, my, my students make fun of me because they say, and there's some truth to that, that I try to explain everything through the olfactory system. I mean, for me, everything is olfactory. So, so yes,

0 (27m 51s):
Through the lens of the nose,

AG1 (27m 53s):
I'd like to take a quick break and acknowledge one of our sponsors, athletic Greens, athletic Greens now called Ag One is a vitamin mineral probiotic drink that covers all of your foundational nutritional needs. I've been taking Athletic Greens since 2012, so I'm delighted that they're sponsoring the podcast. The reason I started taking Athletic Greens, and the reason I still take Athletic Greens once or usually twice a day, is that it gets me the probiotics that I need for gut health. Our gut is very important. It's populated by gut microbiota that communicate with the brain, the immune system, and basically all the biological systems of our body to strongly impact our immediate and long-term health. And those probiotics and athletic greens are optimal and vital for microbiotic health. In addition, athletic Greens contains a number of adaptogens, vitamins and minerals that make sure that all of my foundational nutritional needs are met and it tastes great. If you'd like to try Athletic Greens, you can go to athletic greens.com/huberman and they'll give you five free travel packs that make it really easy to mix up athletic greens while you're on the road, in the car, on the plane, et cetera. And they'll give you a year supply of vitamin D three K two, again, that's athletic greens.com/huberman to get the five free travel packs and the year supply of vitamin D three K two.

0 (29m 8s):
When I was at Berkeley, I was walking across campus one day and I saw, I think students, but I saw people on their hands and knees with goggles on, gloves on. Yeah. And I think their mouths were covered too.

2 (29m 25s):
Everything was covered

0 (29m 26s):
Was covered, and they were walking, well, they were crawling along the ground and I thought this was peculiar, but then again, it's uc, Berkeley, and the joke is, if it to get noticed on the uc, Berkeley campus, you have to be naked and on fire. Right? One or the other would not be sufficient. Please don't run this experiment,

2 (29m 42s):
Anybody.

0 (29m 43s):
It's that kind of place. Yeah. But nonetheless, a a paper came out a few years later describing the results of what turned out to be your experiment that your laboratory was running, which was having people follow an odor trail with their nose. And, and my understanding is that people can improve their ability to track sense quite robustly, especially if we deprive them of vision and somatic sensation that is touching some other sensations. Maybe you could just tell us a little bit about that study and Sure. And for, I think in our audience, I'm suspecting that many people have a keen, keen sense of smell.

0 (30m 25s):
Very, I have a family member who is like, detect any negative o you know, putri odor in the environment, but also good odors, exquisitely well, and I, I have other family members whose sense of smell is quite poor. I'd love for all of those people to learn a bit about what is possible in terms of training up or improving our ability to smell. And perhaps in the context of that study, if you will.

2 (30m 51s):
Yeah. So, so first, before even talking about improving, just off the bat, humans have a remarkable sense of smell. And this is something again, in our lab, we already said we know, yeah, we know this, this is all news. But, but to people who, who come from different worlds, we have to reiterate this sometimes when I give, you know, public lecturers to, to non all faction audiences, I reiterate this, humans have an utterly remarkable sense of smell to, to put that a bit into sort of, you know, things that you could that are tangible. So, so for example, mercaptans, which are added to cooking gas so that we smell it because otherwise it wouldn't have a smell. So that the smell of gas, it's not the smell of gas, of propane, it's an additive, which mer captain Yeah, it's mercaptan

0 (31m 38s):
The sulfur like smell.

2 (31m 39s):
Yeah. So, so our detection threshold that is the level at which we can detect it is 0.2 parts per billion. Okay. There's no machine that can really do that that effectively, no gas chromatograph, nothing. Now to give you another sense of, of, of making this again really tangible, we're working with an odorant in our lab called Astra Tetra Enol that our participants can detect when we have it mixed at 10 to the negative 12 molar in the liquid phase. To give you a real sense of that, we did the math, if you would take two Olympic size swimming pools and you would pipe it one ml one drop into one pool versus the other, you could smell the difference between the pools.

0 (32m 27s):
Incredible.

2 (32m 28s):
That's the detection threshold that you have with your nose. People have an utterly amazing nose. Okay? So, so that's just in terms of its detection abilities, which are, are just, you know, remarkable really up there in the mammalian world, we're not a bad mammal at all. Faction and, and beyond that we can, we can improve. Okay. And, and the example you're talking about actually started off as a lab bet. Okay? We, we were having a lab picnic, so I guess I should hear fill because I, I'm, I'm your guest from the Weissman Institute of Science in Israel. But before going back to my home in Israel, I was a faculty at uc, Berkeley in the Helen Wills Neuroscience Institute.

2 (33m 13s):
And this study was done during that time and we were on a lab picnic and we were having indeed one of these sort of lab discussions, arguments on what humans can and can't do with their sense of smell. And, and I said that humans could truly even track odor like a dog. And people there said, no way. And we ran this quick experiment, which I have video of, but I don't think we'll show it here. But I actually have original the picnic video. We have it, and a graduate student by the name of Christina Zano, a brilliant graduate student at that time, who's now, she's now a professor at Northwestern and she's really leading the field of, of all faction imaging today. But she was the volunteer and we dragged a chocolate bar across the grass and blindfolded her and checked if she could track the track we made with the chocolate, which she did very effectively.

2 (34m 6s):
Right. And as far as, did you place her

0 (34m 7s):
At the starting point of the line

2 (34m 8s):
Or, I think we did. I don't exactly remember what we did on that sort of picnic tryout, but you know, I, I assume she never practiced that in her life before. Right. And yet, you know, she, she did it really, really well. And, and then this went on as a lab better in a way that, that I, I said to my, my students, okay, we, we have to make this into an experiment, put in an experimental setting and, and, and quantify what's going on. And they all said that it would be uninteresting. That was the bet. And, and I told them it would be in nature, which is a bet I won in this case. Nature, of

0 (34m 43s):
Course being one of the, the AP three APEX journals, I told

2 (34m 46s):
Me it was, it was nature neuroscience to be fair. But, but so, so then we, we turned it into an experiment and, and what the experiment was is that we brought in participants, naive participants, not not graduate students from our lab, completely deprived them of any other sensory input. So we blocked their eyes, we blocked their ears, we blocked everything. We blocked, they were wearing heavy gloves, you know, they, they couldn't sense anything. And we generated a consistent odor path in the grass, which is what you saw. We did that by burying twine under the grass and an odor impregnated twine, so that way we could generate a consistent odor trail every time.

2 (35m 27s):
And was it at the base

0 (35m 29s):
Of the grass or in the dirt itself?

2 (35m 30s):
It was buried. It was buried under the grass. Really? Yeah. Yeah. Wow. And I did not know that it was buried under the grass and we conducted aerial photography and participants also had this sensor pack that they were wearing where we measured nasal airflow in each nostril in real time. And they all, we also used something called rtk, G P s, which is a way to lay radio frequency grid over the g p s grid so that you have millimeter resolution in space. Basically it's used by surveyors mostly so that we could track behavior.

2 (36m 10s):
And we found a few things doing this. One is that people could just do this right off the bat. The second thing we found that is when we trained them up, then within average of four days, the rate limiting factor became the speed at which they could crawl. So as fast as you could crawl, you could send track. Of course you can't crawl as fast as a dog can run, but you, as fast as you can crawl, you can center track. And then to, to sort of add, what made it really interesting from, from a, a systemist neuroscience perspective is that we asked whether having two nostrils contributes to this.

2 (36m 53s):
So we built, we constructed a nasal prosthesis, if you will, that had two versions. One is that it, it combined both nostrils into one big nostril centered. And the other is that it, it maintained two separated nostrils and we compared performance under these two conditions and people performed better with two nostrils over one centralized nostril, although the flow remained the same. So you're taking advantage of the information that comes from your two separate, totally separate nostrils, by the way, the system I described before of your epithelium and bulb and, and connection to cortex.

2 (37m 35s):
You have two of those, right? It's completely unilateral, well, almost completely unilateral system. There's some very small exceptions to that. But, but so

0 (37m 45s):
A representation on both sides of the brain, much in the same way. We have two eyes, we're not a cyclops. We can gain depth perception information, we can perceive motion better as a consequence and, and a number of a depth, especially stereopsis.

2 (37m 58s):
And we can locate sound because of the difference between our ears and how head blocks them between. And amazing.

0 (38m 4s):
A another question about the, the mechanics and strategies that you observed, because I think there's information about the system, the brain as a consequence. Were you in a position to measure sniffing frequency? And the specific question I have is were people doing something along the lines of a quick sniffing or a right, like a, you know, a long draw in inhale? So,

2 (38m 29s):
You know, we didn't, so yes, we were measuring, sniffing and recording it and, and we have all the data. There was nothing very remarkable in that data in that study, although it may reflect that we didn't analyze it carefully enough as well. I mean, it didn't, it was, it, it wasn't a major component of our analysis, although we did look at it to some extent. Again, you're, you're asking me about a paper from quite a few years ago. So I, I may be forgetting parts of it as well, but

0 (39m 1s):
I'm sure if it was a, a major component of it, it would've risen to the top.

2 (39m 5s):
It definitely wasn't a major finding the sniffing behavior in the paper. Although again, we, you know, sniffing behavior is a huge portion of our, our life and lab and, and it's, it's taking us to, to places and, and it's re reemerging now in our work. We're, we're doing tons of sniffing work. I, you know, I I can share with you something that, that I think will interest your, your listeners and viewers as well. And, and, and we think is, is really one of the most overlooked things in, in neuroscience. I'll invite you, I'll invite you to do the following experiment. Okay. So occlude one by pressing on it from the side and sniff in and then include the other and sniff in.

2 (39m 49s):
Do you sense a difference in flow? Yes. Okay. Do you know why that is?

0 (39m 53s):
No. And it was the next question on my list. So

2 (39m 55s):
Don't feel badly about not knowing why that is. Most people don't, but that is a reflection of something referred to as the nasal cycle. So in fact, if you were to do that repeatedly, you would find that your high flow nostril and low flow nostril alternate every two and a half hours on average

0 (40m 15s):
In an absolute way. Or is it kind of like a sine wave, like gradual shift to the one and then gradual shift back?

2 (40m 20s):
It can vary. It can vary. And we don't yet know the rules, all the rules, but, but you have this constant shift from side to side. The shift becomes incredibly pronounced in sleep. So we can measure the power of the difference. And, and in sleep you have this phase shift of power. You have a huge, like one closes and one opens. Totally. And it turns out that this is linked to balance in the autonomic nervous system. So as you and your listeners know, we have an autonomic nervous system that has a sympathetic and parasympathetic component to it. And, and therein balance or imbalance in many diseases, for example.

2 (40m 60s):
And this interplay between the auto, between the, the sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous system drives the switch from left to right nostril.

0 (41m 10s):
Just to remind people, sympathetic nervous system has nothing to do with sympathy, has everything to do with generating patterns of alertness. It's sometimes called the fight or flight system, but any pattern of arousal, positive or negative, and then it's balanced in a coordinated way, or at least in parallel with the parasympathetic nervous system, which is sometimes called the rest and digest system, but is associated with all sorts of things, the sexual arousal response and a number of other aspects of our physiology. So think of it like a seesaw of alertness and calm. Yeah.

2 (41m 39s):
Perfect. So now imagine, right? Imagine, imagine you would walk around living your life, right? Half of the time with one eye closed like this and the other half with one eye closed like this, and you had this eye cycle, right? And that was linked to autonomic arousal. I assure you, you would go to PubMed, there would be 5 million papers on the eye cycle, right? And the eye cycle in every disease you can name and what it denotes and what it tells us and what we can do with it. You have exactly this marker. You're walking around with a marker on balance in your autonomic nervous system, and we do nothing with it. So we're in fact now doing a lot with it. Okay? So we built, we built a wearable device that is pasted to your body and measures airflow in each hospital separately and logs it for 24 hours.

2 (42m 27s):
And we're collecting these 24 hour recordings. We're calling it the nasal halter. So we measure with the nasal halter and, and we're finding it as a disease marker. I can, I can give you a nasal halter measurement as an adult, and I can say this is worked by team naka graduates in our lab. Now I can, so we, we can tell the difference between ADHD and non-ad ADHD adults and we can tell just from the recording, we can tell if the adults are un ritalin or not. So I can, I can measure your nasal airflow and say if you are or are not with adhd and if you are or not on Ritalin.

0 (43m 8s):
Incredible. I have a couple of questions about this. Is it the case that airflow through one nostril is reflective of a sympathetic nervous system dominance versus parasympathetic? Yes. Or is it simply the case that this alternating left right nostril periodicity, which you said I think is on the order of about every two hours, two and a half, two and a half, it switches to maximal on one side versus the other? Is that simply reflective of an overall balancing? Let, let's maybe, is it the hinge in the seesaw or is it the tilt of the seesaw?

2 (43m 42s):
So I don't have a good answer. I don't have a good answer. I mean, you know, I I could give you sort of a, you know, I could say that to some extent, right? Nostril more open is more sympathetic and left nostril more open is more parasympathetic. But that, that wouldn't be very correct. I mean, you knows, I'm

0 (43m 60s):
Sure that, you know, the yogis are gonna be all over this. So I, cause I get this, my lab does do some stuff on, on breathing and the, the yogis are always saying, okay, you know, because there's this thing, I don't do yoga anymore. I, not for any particular, but where they'll have you breathe through one nostril or the other. And I've, I've probably been asked this question on social media 10,000 times.

2 (44m 21s):
Okay, wait, I'm gonna become public enemy number one of the yogis right now. So listen, we, so we, we,

0 (44m 27s):
They'll come at you with yoga mats, which are not very dangerous.

2 (44m 30s):
We really, so, so since we're so interested in this mechanism, one of the things we'd really like to know how to do is, is to gain control of it somehow. And there's this world out there of yoga who claims to have control over this. So we said, okay, let's bring like really serious yoga practitioners and see if they can shift their nasal cycle from left to right by by will alone, right? Not by manipulating themselves somehow. And, and if yes, you know, we'll learn from them how they do this and then we might, you know, use this to, to cure A D H D or, or whatnot, right? So, so we posted like on all lists of like the yoga teachers and had this parade of yoga teachers walking into our lab.

2 (45m 11s):
It, this was one of the strangest, lot

0 (45m 13s):
Of sandalwood, odors and bare feet,

2 (45m 16s):
White, white clothing and, and so on. And, and so we, we studied, I actually know we studied 14 yoga teachers all 14 by, you know, by the conditions of enlistment for this came in saying that they, they can control shifting from left to right nostril

0 (45m 35s):
Without plugging an nostril.

2 (45m 36s):
Yeah. By, by the power of thought alone. And you know how many of 14 succeeded? Zero, including, including one, you know, the most extreme one was, we, we have this guy who, who you know, and we're recording and we, we know how to record this really well, right? And, and he's sitting there saying, yeah, I'm switching now and I'm, I'm, it's switching and you know, you're looking at the monitor and no, it's not switching. And, and so no, no yoga teacher that we found could willfully switch between left and right nostril flow.

0 (46m 9s):
And yet they're, they're convinced that they are, and I have to imagine they're not trying to, you know, there, there's no incentive for them to lie, right?

2 (46m 15s):
Yeah, no, i I even the opposite, I mean, you know, this puts them in an awkward position once, yeah, I don't know what the deal is, but, but none of them can do it

0 (46m 25s):
Given that the alternating flow through one or the other nostrils reflective of the autonomic nervous system. Has this two and a half hour periodicity, if I suddenly enter about of stress, for instance, does it switch because that's reflective of the autonomic nervous system. Yes. And the reason I'm asking this question is not because I think that's necessarily important as it relates to stress, but I'm trying to understand the direction of causality. In other words, is the, as are the unilateral smelling through or unilateral nostril smelling periodicity that when we named it something, I damned it the wrong thing, I'm sure. Is that driving the shift in the autonomic nervous system or is it merely reflective of the, the

2 (47m 2s):
Shift? So, so you've, you've very concisely now worded aim to of a grant that was probably just rejected. But, but basically we're trying to answer exactly that question and we're currently running experiments on that line. So, so we have one experiment where we're looking, so, so we're exposing participants to pain. We're using cold water hand exposure. It's a really cool paradigm because it, it, there's huge individual differences. We just started this, we built the setup just now and you have a lot of meat to work with there because there's a lot of individual differences. You're, you, it's capped at three minutes.

2 (47m 43s):
So we, for safety reasons, because you have, you have participants putting their hand in, in two degrees Celsius water, but they'll, they'll be participants who will pull it out at like 10 seconds, nine seconds, and then you'll have, you'll have three minutes as well. So there's lots of, lots of, and, and already and so now I'm sharing pilot data with you. So quite, you know, to, to this might, you know, when it, when this ends up being published, it might be the opposite, but so far it seems that that the exposure to cold generates a shift in the nasal flow in, in nasal balance.

0 (48m 14s):
So autonomic arousal can drive the shift potentially. Earlier you were describing the architecture of these smelling systems and you mentioned these glom where the olfactory receptors converge right in the bulb. And then later you mentioned that the system is unilateral, but with a mere representation on both sides of the brain. So for those who don't think in terms of neuroanatomy and what no one was describing is the fact that of, of course there are two nostrils and then the bunch of receptors, they converge in these glomerular, but you have a mirror representation of that on both sides of the brain and that most of that information is kept on one side of the brain or the other. There isn't a lot of extensive intermixing at the first order of processing.

0 (48m 54s):
Right? So the question I have is whether or not you believe, I'm not asking for data first, I just wanna know what you believe that this alternating nostril airflow phenomenon has anything to do with preferential processing of olfactory information in terms of right brain, left brain, with the caveat that anytime we hear right brain, left brain, we've covered this in a previous episode, most of what people hear out there about right brain, left brain, emotionality, logical stuff is completely wrong, completely wrong, doesn't exist, is a total fabrication. And we'd like to abolish that myth. But with that aside, or set aside rather, what are your thoughts on why the information would switch from one side of the brain to the other at all?

2 (49m 39s):
Yeah, I don't think, I don't think that that the nasal cycle is an olfaction story. So, so I, I don't think that that this was shaped by the olfactory system, nor do I think this has major impact on all affection. I think the nasal cycle story is a different story about brain function. So, so you know, we have, we have this sort of pet theory where calling now the, the sniffing brain approach where we're basically, we think that that nasal inhalation is timing and driving a lot of aspects and patterns of, of neural activity and cognitive processing.

2 (50m 32s):
And, and this theory i is is olfaction inspired in its beginning? That is, I mean if you, if you think of the mammalian brain, right? It's which, which evolved from olfaction. It's sitting there and, and in olfaction, because olfaction depends on sniffing, you have this situation where you have a, you have a sniff, you have information and then flat nothing, right? And then you have information and then nothing. So information processing is, is one-to-one linked to nasal inhalation. And, and we think that, that this property evolved to, to be meaningful in brain processing in general, not only of of olfactory information, but of any type of information.

2 (51m 18s):
Because the brain evolved in this way, in this way that it processes information on inhalation onset. So a study led by a per from our, our lab two, three years ago, we looked at, at something completely not all factory, we looked at at visual spatial processing and we compared visuals, spatial processing on inhalation versus exhalation. And the brain does this completely different on inhalation versus exhalation. You, you're in, in that particular task, people performed significantly better on inhalation versus exhalation. What

0 (51m 53s):
Was the task? Was it an olfactory task?

2 (51m 55s):
No, no, it's a visual spatial task. So this is a task where, where the, the specifics of the tasks were that you see a shape and you have to determine if it's a shape that can or cannot exist in the real world. So some of them were these like usher shapes, like, you know, where, where one facet doesn't reach the other facet the impossible figure itself. Yeah. But, but, but structural shapes not, not, and, and so, so a pure visual spatial task, we, we intentionally went for a task that is not considered a ventral temporal task, an olfactory cortex task in any way. And, and people performed much better on inhalation versus exhalation at doing this task.

2 (52m 40s):
Was

0 (52m 40s):
There a both nostrils occluded version where people were forced to mouth breathe?

2 (52m 44s):
Yes. And in this particular task they also did better on mouth inhalation versus mouth exhalation. But the difference wasn't as pronounced as it was with nasal inhalation versus exhalation. So

0 (52m 59s):
Be yeah, I'm a big proponent of nasal not mouth breathing whenever possible For sure. For many health related reasons. I'm a big fan of the book Jaws a hidden epidemic written by colleagues of mine at Stanford. You're

2 (53m 11s):
Familiar with it? Yep.

0 (53m 12s):
And this idea that people who mouth breathe experience more colds, more infections of various kinds, it's not good aesthetically or for the denture. I never know the teeth, gums and stuff folks. Yeah. Sorry, my, my dentist is gonna come after me, need to go to the dentist. Anyway, the, that nose breathing is great for your health relative to mouth breathing.

2 (53m 35s):
So I think it's also good for your cognition, not only for your, your dental health. I think that that nose breathing shapes, cognition and, and, and there there are other labs who, who are finding the same. Again, Christina Zano is doing work on this line. She, she had major contributions here and, and Yon Lundstrom is doing work on this line there, there's lots of studies suggesting that nasal inhalation is timing cognitive processing and, and modulating it.

0 (54m 9s):
Incredible, perhaps not surprising given what you've taught us about the olfactory system. I mean the, these two holes in the front of our face, these nostrils, I mean are a pathway to the brain, right? I, I love to tell people cuz I work on the visual system in my lab that, you know, your eyes are two pieces of brain extruded from the cranial vault, right? Which they are the retinas any anyhow, and, and then you never look at anyone the same way again. It's okay. But the, the olfactory sensory neurons are right there at the tops of those caverns that we call nostrils and they are brain. Yeah,

2 (54m 45s):
Definitely. It's, it's the only place where your brain meets the outside world because in your retina they're protected by, by a lens. And here, here you have neurons in contact with, with the world. This, this actually has been the source for some theories on a potential route for, for neurodegenerative mechanisms. So as, as you may know, loss of the sense of smell is one of the, if not the earliest sign of neurodegenerative disease. So for example, in Parkinson's disease, there's loss in the sense of smell probably 10 years before any other symptom.

2 (55m 26s):
But people have failed to make this a diagnostic tool because it's non-specific. So it's not as if you could come to your doctor and say, I'm losing my sense of smell. And they'll say, oh, early sign of Parkinson's. Because you can have many reasons to lose your sense of smell and, and and so on. But, but olfactory loss again is, is an early sign of, of neurodegeneration. And there's at least one theory particularly about Alzheimer's disease suggesting that that Alzheimer's may be the result of, of a pathogen that enters the brain through the olfactory system. Oh, interesting.

2 (56m 6s):
It, it's, it's not of course a mainstream or widely accepted theory of any type, but, but it's just, it just highlights this notion that that the nose is a path to our brain.

0 (56m 18s):
I think these non-invasive readouts of potential neurodegeneration, such as visual tests, because of the fact that the retinas are part of the brain and loss of neurons in the retina is often associated with other forms of central degeneration, Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, et cetera, as it's a little more invasive than what you're describing. I'm beginning to wonder why we don't get, have a olfactory task every time we go to the doctor that would allow tracking over time. Because of course, as you mentioned, someone can lose their sense of smell. Does that mean they're getting Alzheimer's? And not necessarily, but if their sense of smell was terrific the year before and it's 50% worse the next year, that's a

2 (56m 59s):
Really bad sign. Yeah,

0 (56m 59s):
That's a bad sign. And so what we're talking about is something completely non-invasive and could be relatively pleasant to innocuous, right? Depending on the odors use.

2 (57m 8s):
So yeah, so, so first I can answer that, right? And the reason that that's not happened, and that might, that, that may be changing right now, but the reason that has not happened is because olfaction has not been effectively digitized, right? So if, if you need to generate, you know, really precise visual information, you can buy a monitor for, you know, a hundred bucks that is at the resolution of the visual system, basically. And if you want to generate auditory stimuli really precisely, then you can buy an amplifier for, you know, maybe a bit more than a hundred bucks, but not that much more. And you'll be at the resolution of the auditory system. In our lab, we build devices that generate odors.

2 (57m 49s):
We call them all FTOs, which is a misnomer because they don't measure anything, but that's what they've always been called. So we call them all FTOs as well. And we've already built at least one all spectometer that cost a quarter of a million euro. And it's pathetic, right? So it just, it's pathetic. It's, it's slow, it's contaminated, it's nowhere near the resolution of your system. So one of the reasons that's not happened is just the utterly poor control of the stimulus. Mind you, to some extent it has happened in that there, there are standard clinical tests of all faction, basically two, that sort of control the world in this respect.

2 (58m 29s):
The older one is, is a test called the u s I, which stands for the University of Pennsylvania Smell Identification Test. It was developed by Richard Doty in Penn, and it's a test where you scratch and sniff and, and it's a four alternative forced choice test with 40 odorants. So you have these 40 pages that you page through and you sniff and smell and, and you know, it's been normed on gazillions of tests. I, I'm always amused by it because, so, so Richard Doty made a ton of money on the U P S I T, but he needed it because he has a habit, he has a nascar and he, so this, every time we buy u ps, its in live.

2 (59m 10s):
I said, there's another gallon of gas into Richard do.

0 (59m 13s):
He races nascar,

2 (59m 14s):
Not like nascar, but like one lower than that. Like, I don't know, like some, some sort of Formula A or Formula Ford or some, he races a car, and so that's where all the ucis went. So I always feel good about buying u ps, its because I know they're going to that good cause, but

0 (59m 29s):
Keeping him in, in, in the fast lane. Yeah.

2 (59m 32s):
But, but so, so that's one test that's out there. And, and indeed, you know, has been shown as a, you know, so, so there's reduced U ps i t in Alzheimer's and Parkinson's and, and in a host of other diseases, and there's a European version called sniffing sticks that Thomas Hum has developed. And, and it's, it's basically the same sort of concept of that one isn't scratch and sniff, it's like these pens that you open up and, and sniff. But, but those exist, but they're not as, as convenient as, as, as de delivering stimuli and vision and audition. And that's why you don't have what you've just suggested. Interesting. You know, another thing, another place where you don't have it, which which I think is even more, would've been even more meaningful is, is you don't, olfaction is not tested in, in newborns, right.

2 (1h 0m 21s):
Where vision and audition is, you know, there's this thing called congenital ansa, right? Which is being, without the sense of smell from birth, supposedly congenital, which is half a percent of the population. It's not a

0 (1h 0m 35s):
Trivial number.

2 (1h 0m 36s):
Not totally, yeah. But nobody knows if that really is true because he, here's an amazing factoid, guess the average age at which congenital ansia is diagnosed. And this is, this is a horrible statistic for me, for the way I see the world, but what do you think the average age of diagnosis is for congenital ansia? Five years of age? 14.

0 (1h 1m 1s):
Incredible. 14. So most people who are one half of a 1% of the human population, presumably Yeah. Is without the sense of smell and doesn't realize that until they're 14 years old.

2 (1h 1m 14s):
Well, I don't know when they realized it first, but, but it's formally diagnosed at 14 on average, which means some of them even later, right?

0 (1h 1m 21s):
And, and Right. So distribution, well, what do they suffer?

2 (1h 1m 27s):
Yes. So, so first of all, they, they suffer socially and there's a host of, of deleterious life events associated with congenital ansa. The it they die younger. The, so it's, it's, it's, it's, this is work out of Ilana Croix in Germany, and you know, amongst the various things that are predicted by an osme as shorter lifespan, but things like, you know, reduced social contacts, reduced romantic social contacts, it's not a good thing.

2 (1h 2m 12s):
And,

0 (1h 2m 12s):
And, and do they lack all factory bulbs? I'm presuming they have noses and nostrils. They have, there is a condition I'm aware of where, where children are born without noses. Very rare. Yeah, very rare focus on that because it's it's exceedingly rare. Yeah. But so

2 (1h 2m 26s):
They're born with noses and nossal, and here's the thing, right? We don't know if they're born with olfactory bulbs. Most of them, although not all of them, but most of them don't have olfactory bulbs in adulthood or, or I should rephrase that, have remnant olfactory bulbs, really shriveled olfactory bulbs. But, you know, nobody can say the cause and effect here.

0 (1h 2m 48s):
Before we talk about the role of the, the requirement for olfactory bulbs for olfaction, a very interesting topic in its own right. I, I'm curious as to whether or not their endocrine system is altered because as we'll soon talk about, there's a lot of signaling through the nose from between individuals that triggers things, everything from the onset of puberty to feelings of romantic attraction attachment, these sorts of things. Is it known whether or not, and I should say, excuse me for interrupting myself, but as long as I'm interrupting you every five minutes, I might as well interrupt myself too, that we are well aware of the proximity of the olfactory system to some of the hypothalamic systems that regulate the release of gonadotropins, which control testosterone and estrogen production, et cetera.

0 (1h 3m 35s):
So are they hormonally normal?

2 (1h 3m 38s):
So some are and some aren't. And I'll, I'll be specific. So there is a condition known as common syndrome, which is hypo development in, in men and in common syndrome. They're practically all anosmic. So, so to answer your question, yes, there's a direct link and, and it materializes in common syndrome. That said, not all congenitally, anosmic individuals have common syndrome, and not all, but almost all people who have common syndrome are an osme. So, so com common syndrome goes with an ossa?

2 (1h 4m 20s):
I think so. So there's a female equivalent of commons or, I, I don't remember its name.

0 (1h 4m 26s):
It's not Turner, it's not a, in the Turner syndrome family, is it? I'm

2 (1h 4m 30s):
Not sure. Okay. And I think it's also associated with ansia, but I'm not confident of that. But commons is, is associated with ansia. So, so the answer is, is yes. And, and you know, we can maybe, you know, olfaction and reproduction are, are tightly linked and, and they're tightly linked in all mammals. And we are big terrestrial mammals and all faction reproduction are linked in humans as well. Yeah,

0 (1h 4m 60s):
We will definitely get into that.

Inside Tracker (1h 5m 1s):
I'd like to just take a brief moment and thank one of our podcast sponsors, which is Inside Tracker. Inside Tracker is a personalized nutrition platform that analyzes data from your blood and DNA to help you better understand your body and help you reach your health goals. I've long been a believer in getting regular blood work done, done for the simple reason that blood work is the only way that you can monitor the markers such as hormone markers, lipids, metabolic factors, et cetera, the impact your immediate and long-term health. One major challenge with blood work, however, is that most of the time it does not come back with any information about what to do in order to move the values for hormones, metabolic factors, lipids, et cetera, into the ranges that you want with inside Tracker. Changing those values becomes very straightforward because it has a personalized dashboard that you can use to address the nutrition-based, behavior-based, supplement based approaches that you can use in order to move those values into the ranges that are optimal for you. Your vitality and your longevity inside tracker now includes a measurement of apo lipoprotein B, so-called apo B in their ultimate plan. Apo B is a key marker of cardiovascular health and therefore there's extreme value to knowing your apo B levels. If you'd like to try inside tracker, you can go to inside tracker.com/huberman to get 20% off any of inside tracker's plans. Again, that's inside tracker.com/huberman to get 20% off.

2 (1h 6m 19s):
I have a, a story slash question that I'd like to tell you, ask you as a segue to that.

0 (1h 6m 28s):
Noting of course, the, that we'll get back to the, the requirement for olfactory bulbs, yes or no for olfaction. And this relates to when I was growing up, I grew up at the end of a street with a, a lot of boys of my age who just by coincidence had a lot of older sisters that were my sister, my older sister's age, it was fortunate. So I had a lot of kids to play with. We would hang out at each other's houses, bike build jumps, and do all his things like kid stuff, fort stuff, get into trouble or whatnot. And oftentimes we would end up leaving our articles of clothing at each other's houses all the time, like t-shirts and jackets. And so my mom was constantly coming in and saying, there's all, there's this clothes, like someone left us here.

0 (1h 7m 13s):
I don't know who it was. We were all more or less the same size and from the, as far back as I could remember, six, seven years old and onward, I could pick up a shirt or a jacket, smell it and say, oh, well that's Eric shirt. A friend of mine Eric just gave his name. Or Oh, that's Scott Madsen shirt. I I could just smell the shirt and in a conscious way know who it belonged to having never, I promise not that I would pretend if I had, if I had, pretend I hadn't, if I had, but having never actually done the exercise of going and taking and smelling my friend intentionally. Right. Okay. In fact, if anything, I had all the reasons in the world to avoid smelling the other young boys in my neighborhood.

0 (1h 7m 54s):
Yeah. Okay. So yeah, that raises a question of whether or not we are consciously and or subconsciously coding identification of people that we interact with frequently or infrequently in terms of their smell a or some other aspect of their chemistry.

2 (1h 8m 15s):
Yeah. So yes, we we're doing that all the time in my view. And a lot of this processing, almost all of it is subconscious and I don't know why already, already put that out there, right? I have no idea why, why human nature has, has, or, or nature or culture or whatnot has, has, has pushed this into the realm of, of subconscious and something we're unaware of. But we do it all the time. And, and, and our lab has lots of studies on this front.

2 (1h 8m 57s):
One of them you may be familiar with that, that had gained some notoriety because it's amusing. So, so we, we look at human behavior a lot. We try to look at it through our news and in the way we look at what people are doing, you know, we try to think, you know, if I was a dog, what, what would I think of this? And, and you know, if you look at dogs, right? They, they've, you know, when they interact, they visibly sniff each other. It's very obvious. They walk up to each other and they sniff each other. And yet humans don't typically walk up to a stranger and carefully sniff them, right? I mean, it's, we we're, we're sort of obliged to sniff our, our babies.

2 (1h 9m 40s):
That's considered almost something you're supposed to do. And it's not culturally taboo to sniff our loved ones. It sort of doesn't seem like an odd thing to do, but we don't sniff strangers, right? Well, or do we, so we're finding more and more mechanisms where we do this and, and the one I'm referring to now for one example is we started looking at handshaking. Handshaking is this really odd behavior, and it's not only in the West, by the way, some people thinks it's only a western thing. It's not, it's almost everywhere. And, and there's really poor understanding of how this behavior evolved. Like where did, where did this thing come from?

2 (1h 10m 20s):
So if, if you, you know, if you look for the Wikipedia version, right? Then they'll tell you that it's to show that you're not holding a weapon in your hand. But there's really no good evidence for that. It's a bit like the trillion bloodhound receptor story, right? I mean, we tried to find it, you know, why do people say that? And they just do. And we started looking at people handshaking and, and we noticed, or it seemed to us that we're noticing that, you know, people will shake hands and then go like this and like this, for those

0 (1h 10m 49s):
Of you listening, not watching no is taking his hand and, and wiping it on his face,

2 (1h 10m 55s):
Grabbing his nose or touching myself of his cheek. These things, these things that we do all the time after a handshake. Well, so, so first of all, we do them all the time just period, right? The baseline here is really high and we'll get to that in a second. But, but, but these behaviors that, you know, you, you could easily not notice, right? And, and so we, we asked whether that's a real thing and this was a study led by idan freeing in our lab at the time. And what we did first, and, and if you want we can link. So, so this was published in eLife and one of the nice things about eLife is that it has a very effective way to embed videos in the publication. So if you want, we can link this to your system later on the,

0 (1h 11m 37s):
Put it in the show note captions as a link on YouTube and the other four platforms, Spotify, apple.

2 (1h 11m 42s):
So, so what we did is, is we, we brought in participants to our lab and we sat them in the room experiment room and, and told them the experiment would start soon and they should wait for us there. They didn't know what they were coming from unbeknownst to them, they were already being videoed. Of course, later on they, they had the opportunity to, to not agree to us saving the video, in which case we would delete it immediately or, or letting us use it for science or some letting us use it for more than science, for, for the video that's now on eLife. And, and we would walk into the room and say, okay, just wait here, we'll be right back with you to set up our experiment. And they would sit there for three minutes.

2 (1h 12m 24s):
And during those three minutes, we could later quantify how much indeed they, just by baseline how much they touch their nose or their forehead or their chin or how many times their hand reaches their face. And by the way, that baseline is not low. Okay? And then three minutes later, an experimenter would walk into the room and would share a, a consistent text. It would be, you know, we're still setting up our equipment in the other room, our, and, and so just wait here and we'll be right back with you. But in the meantime, just wait here. And the experimenter went through this like 22nd fix text and in half of the cases it included a handshake. This was a new experimenter, not the one who put them in the room. So that's the first time they met.

2 (1h 13m 5s):
So it'd be a low, I'm, you know, so and so they would put out their hand and shake their hand or not. Okay? And we did all possible interactions in terms of gender. So we matched male participants with male and female experimenters and female participants with female and male experimenters. And so you had handshake and no handshake conditions, and then you can quantify that behavior of the hand going to the nose after handshake. And there was a remarkable increase in the hand going to the nose after handshake. And this is one of the nice cases. We, the paper includes statistics, but you don't need statistics here. Just look at the video, it's un it's unreal. The video is unreal. So interesting. So the hand goes to the nose. Now we did a few controls here to verify that this is an all factory behavior.

2 (1h 13m 49s):
One is unbeknownst the to participants, we measured nasal airflow and, and people not only bring their hand to their nose, they sniff it. So, and this is perfectly timed, they go like this, okay? So they're sniffing their hands and in an additional control study we manipulated it. So we built this little James Bond thing of a watch on the experimenter's hand that could emit an odor. And the experimenter didn't know what odor they were emitting and they could emit either a pleasant or an unpleasant odor and we could drive the self sampling afterwards up or down. So this was an all factory behavior, no doubt about it. I mean we're, we're quite confident that,

0 (1h 14m 23s):
So people in that case, people must have been sensing the odor on their own hand because they had shake, shook the hand of the, of the experimenter pleasant odor and they're more frequently bringing that hand to their nose versus unpleasant odor that had been introduced to their own hand by the experimenter, correct?

2 (1h 14m 38s):
Yeah, but I, but no, I think, I think they were sensing the, the ambient odor that came in with the hand that that took and then that either drove them to snip their hand more or less

0 (1h 14m 47s):
The odor cloud

2 (1h 14m 49s):
Of the experimenting. Yeah. And, and there's an interesting thing going on here too, because people didn't only smell the hand that shook, they also smelled the other hand. And, and we think that there's something going on here comparing self to other, and we think a lot of self sampling might, might reflect that there's on, on the same line. And again, to to link to your childhood story of of of identifying your friends by, by smell study we published just last year by in ba rebi in in our lab where in bio came with this basic interest in this phenomenon that's loosely referred to as click friendships.

2 (1h 15m 33s):
So people you meet and you click right away, right? You immediately become close friends. And this is a phenomenon that a that you know, is poorly described or is poorly as described in lit literature as, as, as an entity. And yet anybody will tell you they know what you're talking about, right? I mean, if you tell, you know, if somebody you click with right away, you, you become intimate within five minutes, right? Everybody experienced this in their life, you know, to some extent. And the question is, what, what was there, right? What was it? Was it because you looked the same? Could be, was it because you know you had the same sports team that you liked? Or is there something deeper here? And, and in BA's theory was that, that that a similarity in body order may contribute to this, that people who smell the same will click in some way.

2 (1h 16m 26s):
And so to address that sheet, she actually recruited click friends from all over Israel. She posted all over social media to identify pairs of friends. So these are our same sex non-romantic diads. So these are friends, men and women whose friendship started as a clique. Where here this becomes sensitive because it has to be a mutual clique, right? Later on we discovered there could be one-sided cliques. So somebody's sure they clicked with somebody else. But the other person,

0 (1h 16m 55s):
There's a name for that in neurology that our common friend, the late Ben Baris taught me, which is, there's a phrase that neurologists use, okay,

2 (1h 17m 2s):
Called

0 (1h 17m 3s):
Sticky. These are people that come up to you and, and start asking you questions and then won't leave you alone. They, they're so-called sticky people that are, and if you ask these sticky people sticky in air quotes cuz they're not physically sticky, they may be what they could be, you know, what do you think of the per this person? They'll say, oh, they're great. We're really good friends. And so they've made a unilateral click friendship. And yes, neurologists are talking about you. If you're, if you're one of these people, neurologists are talking about you, there's a, an an informal diagnostic code sticky.

2 (1h 17m 39s):
So, so, so she, she recruited click friends, and then she sampled their body odor. And, and we have a, a, a protocol for this. So they're given, you know, a odorless shampoo and soap to use for three weeks or something, and then they sleep two nights in this t-shirt where they have to sleep alone. And then we extract the body oor from the T-shirt. And so we have a way to extract a method to extract body order. And then she, she first asked whether indeed click friends are more similar in their body order than you would expect by chance. And she first tested this with a, with a device, a machine we call an electronic nose.

2 (1h 18m 23s):
So an electronic nose is sort of a very poor effort to mimic what the mammalian nose does. Basically, it's a bunch of sensors that respond to airborne molecules. In this case, sensors referred to as mockers as a metal oxide covered sensors. And so she used an electronic nose to sample these body orders and she found that click friends are indeed more similar to each other than you would expect by chance, by random dyads. And, and this was a significant difference. And after she found that a device could do this, she had other participants do this. So, so she had people smelling the click friends versus non click friends and, and they judge them as being more similar to each other than not.

2 (1h 19m 7s):
Now again, you you might wonder, is this causal or not, right? Because maybe click friends go to the same restaurant together or all the time or whatever, or live in the same neighborhood. And, and that's why they, they, they smell the same. So to address causality, she recruited total strangers and first smell them with the electronic nose and then engage them in a social interaction, something called the mirror game. So in the mirror game, one person moves their hands and the other person is really close to them, like right here. So they can smell each other and has to move their hands with the other person. And one, one prediction there panned out, but another didn't, the one that didn't.

2 (1h 19m 47s):
So she predicted that people who would smell more similar to each other would be better at the mirror game. That is, they would follow each other better. That did not pan out. However, she then also had the, the interaction was completely non-verbal. They were not allowed to speak with each other. And she did an entire round robin. So everybody played with everybody else. This was an insane experiment to run. And she then at the end of the experiment, each person rated each other person as to how much they think they would want to be their friends, and also on a bunch of ratings, how nice they think they are, how affectionate they think a bunch of ratings, okay? All of this was predicted by the electronic nose. So people who smell more similar to each other think that the other person is more likely to be their friend, is more likely to be a nice person, et cetera, et cetera.

2 (1h 20m 34s):
So we could actually predict friendship using the electronic nose. So this is not a result of friendship, it's, it, it plays into the causal elements of, of building friendship. So this is to relate to your childhood story. There's something going on here. We're, we're constantly smelling ourselves, constantly this constantly, I mean, if you wanna link, I'm now the reason I'm smiling, I mean, and, and your viewers are listeners will understand why I'm smiling. I'll send you a video to link in, in the, in into your podcast here. We thought of calling the, the, the fact that people constantly sniff themselves. We thought of calling this the low effect and low.

2 (1h 21m 16s):
So, so in, in America this won't pass that effectively, but in, in, in the rest of the normal world, yam Low is the soccer, the national soccer coach of the German soccer team. So I mean, I don't know who would be a very famous coach here, but Steve Kerr, right? I mean this is the, you know, this is a super, super famous name all around the world where soccer is the primary sport that people watch. And and once people will see this video, they'll understand why we thought of calling this the low effect is very graphic, but, but people are constantly smelling themselves. They're smelling themselves with their hands, they're smelling themselves explicitly.

2 (1h 21m 58s):
People are constantly smelling themselves, constantly smelling others.

0 (1h 22m 3s):
I find this topic so interesting and first of all, confession, I definitely smell myself multiple times per day and

2 (1h 22m 10s):
Everybody does.

0 (1h 22m 11s):
Okay, good. Yeah. Well then I, I I would do it anyway. I think I, like most people, I, I either find my own smell to be neutral to pleasant, right? I occasionally I'll be like, whoa, I, I need to take a shower. As long as we're talking about smelling oneself and friendship, kinship and its relationship to smell, we have to talk about the relationship between smell and romantic attraction and bond. So my understanding is that if for instance, a mouse is given the option to mate with any number of other different mice, they will bias their choice toward the mouse that has the immune composition, the so-called m hc, major histic compatibility complex, which reflects immune diversity, the immune system that is most distant from theirs.

0 (1h 22m 58s):
And the, the evolutionary argument being that were they to produce offspring, that the array of immune genes would be much broader than if they were to select an animal very close to them. And in addition to that, that one of the most strongly selected against behaviors, not just culturally, but at the level of eliciting a sense of disgust, maybe even from the activity of the hypothalamus, is mating with very close kin, aka incest because that can potential we know produces a higher rate of mutations. In other words, whereas you've described the relationship between smell and choice of friends, as you choose people who smell more like you.

0 (1h 23m 39s):
My understanding is that in the context of choosing romantic partners or sexual partners or both, that you choose the person who's odor and therefore immune composition is most different, right?

2 (1h 23m 54s):
So the way you describe the animal literature is correct, and there's evidence to similar mechanisms in humans. Our lab has not worked directly on this issue of, of, of romantic selection based on odor. There's a bunch of papers, kin Ed Allen and the Wed Kin Lab. And also Porter, I'll, I'll email these to you later on that have, have done a lot of this work and find exactly as you say that that romantic odor preferences in humans are influenced by body odor and that this is linked to mhc, his compatibility, complex makeup of the, the portion of our genome that that shapes our immune system to some extent.

2 (1h 24m 46s):
So, so this effect has been studied and reported on, again, extensively in mice and also in in humans not work. That, that we've done the one sort of tangent work we've done. And, and, and, and I'd like to maybe tell you about it relates to, to an effect that that is one of the most remarkable effects in, in mammalian social chemo signaling. So, and, and also related to, to, so it's, it's not related to romanticism in any way or, or, but, but, but it's related to reproduction.

2 (1h 25m 27s):
And, and indeed in our lab, we've not looked at romanticism, we have looked at or are looking at reproduction. They're not always the same. Certainly They can, they can animal mammalian or or terrestrial mammalian reproductive behavior is, is dominated by, by the sense of smell in, in mammals. And here, remember initially when you started off, I, I noted that there are several subsystems in our nose that transduce odorants. And, and so primarily the, the main olfactory system, the, which is cranial nerve number one and the trigeminal nerve, which is cranial number five. Most terrestrial mammals have another subsystem referred to as the the secondary olfactory system that has a separate sense organ in the nose.

2 (1h 26m 14s):
This organ is known as the VMO nasal organ. It's a small pit in the nasal passage of, of most terrestrial mammals. Sometimes it's described as a communicating pit because sometimes it connects the nasal passage to the roof of the mouth, sometimes it com it connects both. And so there's this sense organ with its specific receptor subtypes vs v vmor nasal receptors. And this is linked to a, to a sort of separate portion of the olfactory bulb, not really the main olfactory bulb, but it's referred to as the accessory olfactory bulb.

2 (1h 26m 54s):
And from there directly to the limbic system to the, to the portions of the brain that control reproductive behavior and aggressive behavior. And, and in most terrestrial mammals, this subsystem processes odorants that are sometimes referred to as pheromones, although that's in many ways a problematic term. But, but odorants that are referred to as pheromones, namely odorants that are emitted by another member of the species to influence that member of the species and alter behavior or hormonal state. And, and, and some of these hormonal effects are, are utterly remarkable. And in my view, the most remarkable of all is an effect known as the Bruce effect.

2 (1h 27m 38s):
This was an effect discovered by Margaret Bruce in 1959. She was a, a British scientist. And in the Bruce effect, when you expose a pregnant mouse at an early critical stage of the pregnancy, I think up to about day three, if you expose the pregnant mouse to the order of what is referred to in technical terms as the non stud male that is a male who did not father the pregnancy, she will miscarry the pregnancy, she will abort it. Now that, that's an insane decision made by the female here, right? Because she's invested quite a lot in this, right? In, in, in biological terms, in in, in forming this pregnancy and maintaining it.

2 (1h 28m 23s):
And yet she drops it on the basis of an odor. And this effect is remarkably robust. And what do I mean by remarkably robust? So this will occur on about 80% of exposures. Now, as you know, 80% is a hundred percent in biology, right? I mean, there's nothing that happens more than 80%. So it's a remarkably, remarkably robust effect. This, this dropping of the pregnancy, and we know it's mediated by chemo sensation through nose. We know for sure and we know in the following way. So first it's enough to just bring the odor of the non-ed male. You don't have to bring the, the male himself, right? So you just can bring bedding from a nonsense male and, and that will induce the Bruce effect.

2 (1h 29m 8s):
But of course, the most telling set of experiments is that if in the female mouse you oblate the nasal organ, you just burn this tiny structure in the nose, then the effect disappears. So the effect is completely dependent on the former nasal organ. And, and, and I find this Saudi a remarkable effect, right? I mean, it, it bec because again, because of the, the extent of, of costs that, that the female takes on here based on, on this information in smell. Now humans, the, the, the sort of the going notion in all faction is that humans don't have a functional v nasal organ.

2 (1h 29m 49s):
So we don't have that functional organ in our nose. Now I'll point out, we actually do have the pit. So the, the, the structure or the outlining structure is there, but the pit that we have is considered vestigial and non-functional. And

0 (1h 30m 8s):
What about this thing I learned about at Berkeley in integrated biology class that we have something called jacobson's organ. This

2 (1h 30m 17s):
Is the same organ. So, so Jacobson organs is the vomer nasal organ. It's also called Jacobson because I think Jacobson was a military physician in like the 18 hundreds in Holland or something. And he founded in, in, in a soldier who was operating on or something like that. The, the, the story comes from something like that. But, but the Jacobson organ is another name for the former organ. These are one and the same, the sensory organ of the accessory oil factory system. And again, the going notion is that the human Jacobson organ or organ is vestigial, it's non-functional. Does

0 (1h 30m 57s):
That necessarily mean that we don't have these pheromone effects?

2 (1h 30m 60s):
No, it does not. So first of all, we know that lots of what are considered pherom effects, namely social chemo and rodents are mediated by the main ol factory system. We know that for short, there are several examples for this in mice and rats and rabbits and so on and so forth. So, so a these can be me mediated by, by the ol factory system. And, and, and I'll, I'll come back to that in a second, but first to finish the, the Bruce effect and, and second, and, and I'm going out on a limb here, but I'm willing to take that, that risk. I'm, I'm, for me, the jury is still out on human vul marrow nasal organ.

2 (1h 31m 42s):
The, the decision or the, the notion that it's nonfunctional relies on about one and a half papers postmortem looking for the nerve that connects this thing to the brain and failing to find it using staining and so on and so forth. But staining postmortem studies in humans are, are notoriously complicated, basically, you know, for many reasons. One of them is that the material is just always has gone through, you know, it's, it's not ideally set as it is when you sacrifice an animal and, and, and, and study its its tissue.

2 (1h 32m 22s):
So, so based on, on really, really a ity of studies that fail to find this nerve, the notion is that the structure is vestigial in humans. I don't have any evidence that it's functional mind you, but, but I'm just not sure that it's not. But what we do have a suspicion is that humans may experience something similar to Bruce effect. So first of all, humans have an enormous number or ratio of, of, of, of spontaneous miscarriage.

2 (1h 33m 2s):
Are

0 (1h 33m 2s):
They occurring more often in the first trimester? Because you mentioned yes, that in the Bruce effect, in the mices in the first three days or so, fall in pregnancy, which in the mouse gestation, as I recall, is about 21 days in the mouse. So you're talking about one seventh of total gestation. So I'm, yeah, I'm not quick enough to, to, nor is it important to translate, but this will be first trimester of humans.

2 (1h 33m 21s):
Yes. Which is indeed early trimester when most miscarriage occurs. Now, hu humans have, again, a huge number of miscarriages and, and the numbers, I'll, I'll soon share them with you. They, they sound odd. And the reason they sound odd is because if, if you have what's sometimes simply referred to as failed implantation, right? This can occur, you know, in days one, two, nobody ever knows. Okay? So, so some papers talk about 90% of all human pregnancies end in miscarriage. This is counting a failed implantation in day one, two, et cetera. More conservative studies talk about 50%. Nobody will argue 30%. Okay? So a huge number, a huge number of, of human pregnancies end in miscarriage.

2 (1h 34m 8s):
Now, out of these, there's a portion that are, are unexplained, right? So nobody knows why. I mean, there are a portion that are explained by all sorts of genetic factors, developmental factors and so on and so forth. But there's also a proportion that are unexplained. And, and, and so all I'm saying is that there's, there's a statistical backdrop or setting, if you will, for something like a remnant Bruce effect in humans. Now, with that in mind, we, we approached a group of, of we, we, we enlisted a group of, of of, they're not really patients and participants in, in a study of people who, or couples who are experiencing what is referred to as, as unexplained repeated pregnancy loss.

2 (1h 34m 54s):
So formally, if you have two consecutive unexplained miscarriages, then that that is sufficient for the diagnosis of unexplained repeated pregnancy loss. However, in our cohort of 30, we had couples who experienced 12 consecutive unexplained repeated pregnancy losses. So, so the two, the two is just the formal, all of our cohort was like 12 five, you know, so, so this is an emotional difficult place to be. And and these are couples who, who are losing their pregnancy for no apparent reason. So they've gone through all the tests that you can imagine of, you know, genetic and compatibilities and all sorts of issues, clotting all, all the, all the, the known suspects for, for pregnancy loss.

2 (1h 35m 42s):
And the, the medical establishment remains totally at a loss as to why these pregnancies aren't holding. And so we hypothesized that, that perhaps here, there's something akin to, to a Bruce type effect. Obviously it's not gonna be the same as in mice, but, but something like a Bruce effect. Now of course, at that stage we could not do anything causal to, to test this, right? But what we could do is to see, you know, to, to seek circumstantial evidence to see if, if where there's fire, maybe there's smoke. And what we did was we tested olfaction and more specifically the response to, to male body odor in, in the, the couple's experiencing repeated pregnancy loss.

2 (1h 36m 32s):
And we found a few things. First of all, if you think of the mechanisms behind the Bruce effect, the Bruce effect implies that the female has to have a very clear memory of the fathering male. Because if she's gonna miscarry in response to the non father, she has to know father non father. I mean, that means that there is a pronounced olfactory memory at the moment of mating, okay? And, and in mice, this has been very well characterized and, and attributed to the Ontario olfactory nucleus structure in the brain, but you'd have to have this memory in order to make that decision now.

2 (1h 37m 18s):
So to address that, and, and here you're gonna see that you and your childhood story from before stand out a bit as, as skillful, is that the first thing we did was just behaviorally test whether these women and control women could identify the smell of their spouse. And you might be disappointed or, you know, we would all are probably a bit disappointed to learn that control. Women are very poor at this. So, so you, you would think that that women would be good at identifying the body odor of their spouse.

2 (1h 37m 58s):
They're not, they're not far from chance. However, the women who experience repeated pregnancy loss are more th they're, they're double at their performance level. So this is not a nuance effect. Women who, who re who who experience repeated pregnancy loss can identify their husbands or their spouses by their body odor

0 (1h 38m 28s):
With much greater acuity than the typical person double

2 (1h 38m 31s):
A bit more than double and, and way above chance. Yeah,

0 (1h 38m 34s):
No, i, i, sorry, I posed it as a question, but I meant yes, with much greater acuity and double is, is yeah, a significant improvement. Are they much better at detecting any odor?

2 (1h 38m 46s):
No, they're not. We did the controls and they're not, and then we also measured using F M R I remeasured their, their brain response to stranger male body order. And their, and and, and this was quite remarkable cuz you know, we approached, so this was a full brain analysis, so without a region of interest analysis. So it's not as if you are tweaking your statistics to look at one part of the brain, you're just looking at the entire brain in the response to male body order and asking de novo, is there a difference between these two groups of participants? And there was one huge difference, and it was in the hypothalamus. And so there was a difference in response to strange male body order between the two groups.

2 (1h 39m 32s):
So, so olfaction is altered in spontaneous, repeated, spontaneous pregnancy loss. We don't know this is causal, right? But, but that was enough for us to approach the ethics committee to run a causal experiment. And we're at the beginning of that now.

0 (1h 39m 54s):
Incredible. I can't wait to hear the, the results of that.

2 (1h 39m 57s):
It's gonna take experiment. It'll probably take years, a few because, because the, these are slow experiments to run. Recruitment is complicated. But basically we're, we're blocking, we're blocking smell in, in couples who are trying to maintain a pregnancy.

0 (1h 40m 20s):
I want to touch on some other so-called pheromone effects. And one thing I heard you say during a talk, which I think really captures this whole issue of are there pheromone effects in humans very nicely, as you said, you know, whether or not it's a classic form pheromone effect or whether or not it's olfaction or something else. This is chemo sensory signaling Yeah. Between individuals. The reason this is important to me is a few years ago I did a social media post about pheromone effects in animals and some potential pheromone effects in humans. And a couple of the human ol fashionistas more from the, the actually who work on animal models really came after me with, you know, intense sniffing, saying, you know, there is no evidence for human pheromone effects, human pheromone organs.

0 (1h 41m 4s):
And I think today you've beautifully illustrated how, regardless of the answer to that humans are contained or and are emitting chemical signals that influence each other's physiology and behavior.

2 (1h 41m 16s):
For sure, for sure. And and the, the term pheromone is a problematic term in any case. I mean, the term, the term was put forth to describe insect behavior, right? So, you know, if if you were given a hard time by the mouse people, you could have given an eq them an equally hard time if you were an insect person, right? Because really the the place the term is, is, is is accurate, is, you know, so the first pheromone that was discovered was babik, which is the pheromone that has the male moth follow the, the scent trail of the female moth. Baikal is a pheromone insect pheromone. People will argue that this stuff that people talk about in mice and rats is not pheromones.

2 (1h 41m 57s):
I see. And, and, and it all becomes semantics, right?

0 (1h 41m 60s):
Yeah. It's sort of like nerdy inside ball. Yeah.

2 (1h 42m 2s):
It's all semantics. Yeah. So I don't, I, in in our publications we don't use the term pheromone, you know, because it would not help me and it would probably only hurt us. And so, you know, we talk about chemo signals and humans definitely emit chemo signals from their body. And these chemo signals influence other humans and influence their behavior, you know, and, and, and there there are several examples of this. One of them, I'll, I'll point out first, which is, is sort of the most widely studied and, and not mostly from our lab actually. I mean the, the, the flavor of the month for the past 10 years in this field is what's referred to as the smell of fear, right?

2 (1h 42m 43s):
So this is probably true of, of many mammals and humans. It's true of we emit a specific body odor when we're in the state of fear. This was first discovered in humans by Denise Chen out of, I think brown, I'm not sure.

0 (1h 43m 2s):
I think that's right. Yep.

2 (1h 43m 4s):
Humans emit a particular body order when they're in a state of fear. And this body order influences other humans in effect increasing their autonomic arousal, their sympathetic state. So in effect, you could say that fear is contagious a bit. So the smell of fear is contagious, by the way, culturally, we know for ages that dogs can smell fur in humans. But actually that was only really shown about a year and a half ago in a study. So it, it, it was always said, but it wasn't really shown effectively. It was shown about a year and a half ago in a study that dogs indeed can smell human fear and humans can smell human fear.

2 (1h 43m 44s):
So several labs starting from Denise Chen and Havilland Jones, and, and then in our lab and in other labs, if, if you collect body odor from people in a state of fear and collect body odor from the same people, when they're not in a state of fear, other people can determine which is, is the state of fear or not. And, and this influences their behavior.

0 (1h 44m 5s):
What about the smell of safety? Or is that simply the absence of the odor corresponding to fear? And the reason I ask this is somewhat woven into our prior discussion about mate choice. Again, I'll ask the question in a form of, of brief anecdotes. I'll use the, I had a friend who approach here, but, well, one phenomenon that has nothing to do with me in particular, I think this is a common phenomenon, is romantic partners leaving articles of clothing at each other's homes. Now, this could have other purposes to mark territory, but visually marking territory, but also scent marking territory is very common in the animal kingdom.

0 (1h 44m 44s):
Yeah. It's not uncommon for romantic partners when one is traveling or away for the other partner to smell their article of clothing in order to bring about positive connotations of the other partner. Yeah. Very common behavior. If you're doing this folks, other people are doing this too. Yeah. It raises questions, for instance, about whether or not the morning period part post breakup, whether by decision, by death, or by some other phenomenon that's forced the breakup. Whether or not that morning period has something to do with an olfactory unlearning of inmate slash and on and on and on. With, with

2 (1h 45m 20s):
All these insights, I would offer you to be a postdoc. Well, I was

0 (1h 45m 23s):
Gonna say, listen, so I have a sabbatical coming up, so I would love to do a saal,

2 (1h 45m 27s):
But it's gonna kill me. No, exactly.

0 (1h 45m 28s):
You don't want me to work for you talked about this earlier, that's what

2 (1h 45m 31s):
I'm saying for other reasons. Exactly.

0 (1h 45m 32s):
There's a story there. What no is referring to. I'll just tell people. Cause inside jokes on a podcast don't really work. Earlier, I was just, I was referring to the fact that I've had three incredible scientific mentors, undergraduate, graduate, and postdoc. But for reasons that are unclear to me, the first one died of suicide. The second one, cancer at 50, and the third one, pancreatic cancer in hiss early sixties. And the last one before he died was an MD and a common friend of noms. And I turned to me and said, you know, Andrew, you're the common denominator. So, you know, the, the joke I prefer, the joke in my business is you don't want me to work for you. So nonetheless, I would love to do a sabbatical in your lap. No,

2 (1h 46m 12s):
That, so, so what I was trying to say in that roundabout way is that those are all really keen observations and good ideas for sure. And, and, and they just highlight again, you know, that, that we're incredibly olfactory animals. You know, I, and, and and you are, you are even talking about the nuance. We're very olfactory, even not in the nuance. I mean, you know, I, I have this, when people tell me that, you know, that we don't use our sense of smell and we don't need it and all that, and, and I, I have to deal with this a lot, right? I have to deal a lot. You study vision, nobody will tell you that vision is unimportant, right?

0 (1h 46m 42s):
Visually dependent. I don't need a dog to take over my olfactory system if I lose olfaction. But I'll tell you from having lost my sense of smell. Sure, yeah, yeah. For one day, right? I was in intense fear. I bit into blue. I love blueberries. I'm like a drive-by blueberry eater. If they're there, I just kind of picked them up like a grizzly bear and cram 'em in my mouth. So keep them away from me if you don't want them eaten. But I can't, I almost can't help myself. I bid into a blueberry or a handful of blueberries and they just, it was the sensation of little bags of water. And I immediately felt like tremend tremendous grief.

2 (1h 47m 14s):
I, I'll tell you a sort of a, a throwaway line that I use in this. When, when I talk with people, you know, I ima I mean, you know, take the two most basic behaviors that sustain us, right? Let's say I give you a choice between a beautiful looking layer cake with, with, with strawberries and blueberries and, and, and whipped cream, but that smells of sewage versus some gray brown mix that smells of cinnamon. Which do you eat?

0 (1h 47m 49s):
Oh, simple.

2 (1h 47m 50s):
The latter, right? You eat the latter. Right? Now imagine I offer you a mate choose the, the gender of your liking, right? That looks like a Greek god or goddess, right? But smells of sewage or an ordinary looking individual that smells of sin itself. Who do you choose

0 (1h 48m 11s):
The latter,

2 (1h 48m 11s):
Right? So in the two most basic behaviors we have, we follow our nose, not our eyes, right?

0 (1h 48m 19s):
Definitely not always in predictable ways, because you offered an extreme example, which is the best example. But I, for instance, for reasons I don't know, I've never liked the smell of perfume ever. In fact, I find it aversive. But I do, I confess, I do like the smell of certain body odors very much. And I'm very particular about that. And I know within an instant. And so this is a, a problem for any romantic partner who likes perfume for me. But I know many people like perfumes and colognes and things of that sort. I like perfume. And in fairness, I've also been told that by someone that they couldn't spend time with me because they do not like my smell.

0 (1h 49m 2s):
In fact, they dislike it. And I, unfortunately for me, there's at least one person on the planet who said the opposite. So the, so I completely agree with what you're saying. Yeah. I can also say that I imprinted on the smell of my, I had a bulldog mastiff when I raised from the time he was a puppy, and I imprinted on, I imprinted on his smell immediately. And even though to other people, it was a bulldog mastiff, after all his smell was, was rather aversive to me. He, he smelled delicious, right? And it made me, it smelled like home. And he was my best animal friend for a long time. So, and on and on and on, right? The smell of children, as you said, the backs.

0 (1h 49m 42s):
We had a guest on this podcast who I'm sure you're familiar with, Charles Zucker. Yeah. Professor Columbia has done incredible work in vision and old faction. Yeah. Thirst sensing it. And he and I talked a little bit about this, that there's something in the breath of romantic partners that's hopefully repetitive, not aversive as well as in children. He was talking about the smell of his grandchild, the ba, the nap of their, the back of their neck, and how he misses that smell because when he thinks about missing his grandchild or children, it's that smell that, that, that's associated with that feeling.

2 (1h 50m 17s):
See? Hexa decal.

0 (1h 50m 19s):
Hexa decal. Yes. Is Charles your grandchildren smell like hexa decal? Yes. He's gonna come after me now. They do.

2 (1h 50m 25s):
And, and so this, this is a study ran by Eva Micho, who was a graduate student in our lab. And, and Eva was interested in aggression. She was really into aggression. And actually when she start, and, and, and so when she started off, we said, okay, let's do chemo signaling of aggression. She actually was going to like m m a clubs and collecting body odors. And we, we had all sorts of ideas going. And, and she, she worked on that for quite a bit. It never went anywhere really. And then at the same time, we had a colleague of ours from Germany, I mean, when I say colleague, primarily a friend or acquaintance.

2 (1h 51m 13s):
I met at conferences Hines Brier. And, and he was stunning in his lab, a molecule, hexa decanal, that was a chemo signal in mice where in mice it was described as a chemo signal that promotes social buffering. Where social buffering, as far as I understand it, it's not my field, but as far as I understand, it's basically a feel good together thing. So when lots of mic are together, they feel good about being in a group. And that's social buffering. And it's promoted by hexed decanal, which they emit in their feces mice and in his work on Hexed canal.

2 (1h 52m 0s):
And, and so, so, so Brier and his colleague Schwartzman, they, they discovered the receptor for this. And then they went and discovered that the receptor is very highly conserved throughout mammalian evolution. And therefore they hypothesized that maybe this is a universal mammalian signal now, which is unusual because in, in chemo signaling, typically you tend to think of things as being very species specific. But here they hypothesized that may be hexa decanal, which promotes social buffering in mice, may do something in all mammals again, because this receptor is very highly conserved. Or 37 <unk> I think so they, so, so he approached us and said, look, you gotta study this stuff in humans, right?

2 (1h 52m 46s):
Because he knows us as the human people, right? I mean, we go to these olfaction conferences where, where lots of people study mice and, and, and zebra fish and whatnot. And we're the, the human group. So, and, and eventually he just FedExed us hexa decal. And, and so we had this thing sitting around and Eva was not going anywhere with her aggression studies with sweat from human participants. And yet she built the entire paradigm to study human aggression. So their standard paradigms, this is a paradigm known as the tap the Tyler Aggression Paradigm. I'll soon describe it. And so we said, okay, we have this Hexa Canal stuff here, and it promotes social buffering.

2 (1h 53m 30s):
Social buffering sounds like it would make you less aggressive. Why don't you run your tap experiment using Hexa canal? What's the tap experiment? So basically what you do is you bring in a participant to lab and you have them thinking that they're gonna be playing against another person in, in this game. And you can, you can do something like have another person walk into the other room playing online. So, so connected so you can fool them into being quite convinced that this is what's happening. And they go into their own room, and in the initial game they play on each round, they're, they're provided with a sum of money.

2 (1h 54m 12s):
And this is real money that they'll receive at the end of the experiment. And by term, each one of them decides how to divide the money up between the two, right? So they're playing against another person, they think, but that's actually a computer algorithm that they're playing against. And the computer algorithm is, is programmed to be an, in scientific terminology, a jerk, right? So the, you know, like let's say they have to divvy up a hundred checo, which is the Israeli currency. So, so the com you know, the other player would say, okay, you know, I'll keep 96 and you get four, right? And then if you, you can either accept it or not accept it, and then neither of you get anything, right?

2 (1h 54m 52s):
So basically you're being shafted by, by the other side all the time. And this is called the provocation phase. You're really getting angry at this person because they're they're really not nice, right? They're, they're shafting you on every trial or almost, and you play this game and, and it goes to its end. And then you cl you play a second game as far as, you know, against the same participant. And the second game is a reaction time game. So a target shows up, and the first to press it wins. And on every trial where you win, if you want, you can blast the other participant with a loud noise. And, and it's a really loud noise. So you're also wearing earphones. It's 90 d b and it's, it's a screeching horrible sound.

2 (1h 55m 34s):
It's the most punishment that an IRB committee will let you endure on a, on a participant in an experiment, unless you're in Stanford 70 years ago or whatever that

0 (1h 55m 43s):
Was. No, I was referring to the, the classic prisoner experiment, which took place in the building next door to where I work, by the way.

2 (1h 55m 50s):
So you can blast the other participant with varying levels of, of sound and you, you have a selection box from something very low to something very high. And what's nice about this is that then allows you to quantify aggression, because the more volume you're blasting the opponent, the more aggressive you are towards your opponent. And, and so you have a, a measure of aggression. Again, the Tyler aggression paradigm, obviously invented by Tyler, very well validated, studied all over, you know, a v very standard protocol. So we brought in participants and had them play the Tyler or the tap, either under exposure to hexagonal or control.

2 (1h 56m 30s):
Now, he decal doesn't, it's, it's incredibly difficult to even detect heed decanal, but just in case, because it, it, it's not very, very, it's considered a semi volatile, it doesn't have a strong smell, but we buried it both the control and the hexa decanal in a, a control odor that hid them in a mask. And, and she ran lots and lots and lots and lots of participants, men and women. And I'll first tell you the result with men, which is that Hexed canal consistently reduced aggression. People were less aggressive under Hexed Canal. The effect size was, was quite meaningful.

2 (1h 57m 10s):
And later on we learned because I'm, I'm no specialist in the world of aggression, but compared to the effects seen in the aggression world, in, in research, really, really strong effects. So unusually strong, so hex a decal, lowered aggression in men. And we were like, cool, this is, you know, sort of what we were hoping to, to see consistent with the hypothesis and, and consistent with it seems to do in mice. But then we looked at the data from women and hexagonal increased aggression equally, significantly. Is this thought

0 (1h 57m 42s):
To be something related to maternal protectiveness?

2 (1h 57m 44s):
We're getting there. So you, you got there really fast. It took me a year, but, and, and, and ever got to it. Really? I'll, I'll, I'll tell you cuz remember we're reaching the back of the head of your, of, of whose, was it grandchildren? Charles, Charles Zer grandchildren, the Charles

0 (1h 57m 60s):
Zucker, one of the kingpins of the New York Neuroscience Mafia.

2 (1h 58m 4s):
Yes. So, so this was really odd to me at that time. And so I didn't have the intuition you just had, and I was like, this, there was some bug here. I mean this, this, it makes no sense to me. You know, why would something increase aggression in women and decrease aggression in men? This is really, really strange. And, and I said, okay, I wanna see this happen again before, you know, we go ahead with this. So she went and did the entire experiment again, and this time she did it within the FMRI magnet so that we, we can also track brain activity while this was happening. And first of all, it replicated again. So once again, hex decanal men made men less aggressive and women more aggressive.

2 (1h 58m 49s):
And, and, and the extent of, more than the effect alone, the dissociation was remarkable. This has the, it's, it's almost like a chromosomal test. I mean, you, you look at the data on the unit, unit slope line, and all, all the men are above below, and all the women are above there. There's this figure in the paper. Then she, she also looked at, at the brain data. And, and this is, you know, although our lab does a ton of fm r i, it's one of the major tools we use to measure brain activity. I'm, I'm, I'm quite cognizant of the limitations of FM r i and, and this is, I think, sadly, I think the only study in my career at least, where, where I actually managed to also get a mechanism out of fm i not only an area that's involved in activity.

2 (1h 59m 35s):
And, and so here's what we saw, that that hexa decanal alone increased activity, quite pronouncedly in an area of the brain known as the left angular gyus. Now this is an area involved in what's referred to as social appraisal. So that was kind of cool in that a social order activated the social brain, not the olfactory system per se, and, and very pronounced. So on one hand that was cool, but then what was uncool was that it did the same in men and women. And this was in contrast to behavior, which you don't like seeing, right? I mean, because you would expect brain activity to reflect behavior. And it increased activity in the left Anglo gyus in both, both men and women.

2 (2h 0m 19s):
But then she did a follow up analysis, which was look at what's referred to as functional connectivity. That is how does this region of the brain talk with the entire brain as it were, under hexagonal versus control. And here, the dissociation reemerged powerfully whereby the connectivity from the angular dirus was mostly to the classic neural substrates of aggression. So the amygdala and the temporal pole and the connectivity went in opposite directions in men and women. So hex decal increased functional connectivity in men and decreased it in women.

2 (2h 0m 59s):
So in a way, this is almost saying that the default brain reaction is aggression, right? The default is to aggress. And in men, hex decal increases the control that the left Anglos is holding over your aggression and, and keeping you back. And in women, it let it roam free and they became more aggressive. But I was still puzzled. So, so the, so I was convinced this happened twice. The mr data provided not only a, a pattern, but a mechanism, which is unusual. And yet I, I was telling Eva, you know, but you know, this makes no sense to me. And then, and then her insight, which of course afterwards is like, duh, is no, there's a place where this makes perfect sense.

2 (2h 1m 42s):
And that is if you are a mammalian offspring, because paternal aggression is often directed at you, there's infanticide all over. And sadly there's male aggression towards human children as well. And maternal aggression is often protective. So if you are an offspring, if you have a molecule that will make your mother more aggressive and your daddy less aggressive, both of those are good for you. So you're winning. So we remembered a recently published paper from a group in Japan that looked at the odors emanating from baby heads. We now come full circle to zucker's grandchildren.

2 (2h 2m 22s):
They used a method known as GC m s gas chromatography mass spectrometry, to measure the volatiles from baby heads because baby head odor is a cultural thing across cultures, even in Japan. And so we quickly went to that paper and to see if one of the molecules that report is hexa decanal. And we were very disappointed that it wasn't one of the molecules that reported in the paper. And so we, we wrote to the authors who are since then, our co-authors, and we said, look, you know, we're studying this molecule hexagonal and we don't see in your results. And, and we were wondering maybe you had some results that you didn't publish or some supplementary materials or whatever.

2 (2h 3m 4s):
And this lab, which is a hardcore GC lab, said, no, no, hexagonal is a semi volatile, which we knew and our previous paper was not directed to the semi volatile range. But we can now do use what's called gcx GC double GC that is directed at semi volatiles. And we can do this again, we just studied 11 babies and we can, we can see if this is an issue. So he said, yeah, please do. The bottom line of all this is that hexa the most abundant, semi volatile in baby hits. It's tons of it coming out of baby hits. So babies, again, speaking about if humans do or don't chemo signal babies are conducting chemical warfare, right? They're, they're, they're, you know, reducing aggression in their fathers or males around them and increasing aggression in their mothers or females around them.

2 (2h 3m 55s):
And both of those things are good for them.

0 (2h 3m 57s):
Incredible. This is somewhat different than what we're talking about. And yet similar in other ways because it's built off of anecdotal evidence, but it's anecdotal evidence that you hear all the time. And yet when you look in the scientific literature, at least by my read, the data are not clear, maybe even contradictory. And that relates to the coordination of menstrual cycles among co housed Yeah. Women or women who are friends. The, you know, many women listening to this and maybe some men who are aware of, of this effect will say, oh yeah, absolutely. When I spend time with my friends or go away camping or even spend a day a day with them, our menstrual cycles become coordinated.

0 (2h 4m 40s):
However, my understanding is that the early literature, Barbara McClintock correct, discovered this phenomenon, published a paper in science as an undergraduate,

2 (2h 4m 50s):
1971 Nature,

0 (2h 4m 51s):
Amazing nature paper, again, one of the three Apex journals and as an undergrad, fantastic. So discover this, describe this. And probably women all over the world who became aware of this one way or another, probably probably said yes, absolutely. This gives validation to what we've observed, right? Over and over again. And yet, as subsequent papers have been published, this result has been called into question is, is there any final word on whether or not menstrual cycles become coordinated among women who spend time together? And if so, is there any role of olfaction in this or chemo sensing through the nostrils or, and or mouth to support this idea? So,

2 (2h 5m 31s):
So, yeah. So, so I'll start off indeed to echo the background is that this study was conducted by, by Martha McClintock when she was an undergraduate at Wesleyan College. And she noticed that she thought her menstrual cycle and her co inhabitants in her dorm room we're coordinated in time. And I should say that this comes on the basis of similar or related type effects in rodents. Now, ruins don't have a menstrual cycle like humans do, but, but there's a, an effect in ruins referred to as the witten effect, which resembles this type of, of, of effect.

2 (2h 6m 16s):
And she published indeed that paper as an undergraduate in nature in 1971. And to answer your question, she published a follow-up in 1998, also in nature with then her graduate student to Chicago Stern. So this is Stern and McClintock, 1998. And here's what they did. They collected sweat from donor women and deposited it on the upper lip of recipient women. So this would be a fun experiment for you at least. Cause you said you like body orders, but for many others, perhaps it would be daunting. Well, I like

0 (2h 6m 50s):
Certain body odors from certain individuals. Okay? I don't, I don't think I uniformly like all body odors, although I do seem to uniformly not like the smell of perfume. Although I, just to clarify cuz I put this out there and I learned the hard way in the comment section on YouTube. Some of those perfumes I find downright aversive. Yeah. Like it's a, I think the great Marcus Meister, who great neurobiologist once said, there's basically three responses. It's either yum, yuck, or me. So some I are truly

2 (2h 7m 19s):
Yuck. I've never heard that one,

0 (2h 7m 20s):
That one, right? In terms of animal behavior, human behavior, we're either a move forward back or, or stop or pause. So some are truly a yuck, some many are met, zero to date are yum for me. Yeah. Now body odors, the distribution has shifted. It could be any one of those three yum, yuck or me. So just to be clear, but the the yum category is definitely included. Thank you for, for allowing me to do

2 (2h 7m 51s):
That. So, so, so, so she did this study. So, so because right in the original McLin study, you, you might suspect other drivers of the effect, even let's say you ex you accept the effect, but still there might be other social drivers of the effect. There are not body odor, right? There might be some dominant woman who's dominant in some other way. And this might be driving the coordination, right? So here, there was no direct link between these women other than body order. So if the effect reemerged, it would definitely be an olfactory effect. And what she found is that if she took a sweat from the follicular or the ovulatory phase of the donors, one extended the, the cycle in recipients and one shortened the cycle in recipients, I don't remember which was which, but, but basically definitely denoting a chemo signaling effect with, with opposing effects on duration based on the time it was collected from, again, published in nature in 1998.

2 (2h 8m 53s):
That's it. I I, there there's a, a quotation, I think this is from, from, from, from, I'm not sure. But, but you know, that, that if something is published in nature or science, that doesn't necessarily mean it's not true. So with that in mind, the findings were since called into question quite widely. One reason is just statistics of cyclic events are surprisingly complicated. So, so it's tricky. It's once you have a cyclic event, statistics become tricky.

2 (2h 9m 36s):
And, and so sh show Martha took a lot of heat on the statistics of, of claiming an effect. And I think there was at least one effort of replication that didn't really work out. If you ask me, I'm on the fence. So I'm, I'm, and, but I'm maybe in a minority in my field. I think a majority in the field is currently negative. I'm not. And I've, we've said in lab that we should do a planned replication.

2 (2h 10m 16s):
We will. It's just, again, it's a horrible study to run. It's tons of work and, and, and you have to run it for a really long time. And, and so it's, it's just completely non-trivial. But we have a graduate student now in lab interested in these exact things. Ruth Weiss groin, and she's doing similar stuff. And, and I hope we'll, we'll do that. I hope, we'll, we'll try to, to replicate this

0 (2h 10m 43s):
Very interesting result. And I think interesting because it of its n real world meaning outside the laboratory of course or experiment analog, but also because pheromone effects and all factory effects in humans seem unique among neurobiological slash endocrine phenomena. Because there seems to be so many stories that we all have of the smell of our grandmother's hands or the recognizing the scent of, of somebody, or I knew from the moment that I smelled their breath or, you know, or I just liked their smell kind of thing. Yeah. These kind of things that, that inform the, the deep potential for a real biological phenomenon as opposed to the kind of thing like, oh, you know, you just throw something out there, oxytocin is bonding and, and all of a sudden, you know, the, the general public not at no to no fault of their own.

0 (2h 11m 40s):
Comes to think that every every aspect of bonding is, is oxytocin. And every defect in bonding is lack of oxytocin. But the, the general public provides a sort of a, a rich it's fodder for, for exploring all these things. And a lot of times they turn out to be true, right? When in the context of old faction.

2 (2h 11m 58s):
Yeah, no, it's, it's a very primal system, you know, so, so it's, it's linked to the most, you know, limbic primal mechanisms in our brain, and it drives primal behavior.

0 (2h 12m 9s):
It's, it's an incredible system. I, I have a question about a particular study, but I'm just gonna cue it up and you'll know immediately what I'm, I'm queuing up. And that is, what is the relationship between odors and hormones? And in particular, crying,

2 (2h 12m 27s):
As I pointed out previously, the, the sort of flavor of the month in, in human social chemo signaling research is the smell of fear and the, the media of the month is sweat, right? So, so the, the few maybe tens of labs in the world that study human social chemo signaling all collect sweat. And, and that's the media they look at.

0 (2h 12m 51s):
Is it always from the armpit or is there, are there meaningful differences in terms of the sweat emitted from different locations on the body? I already know the answer to that as I ask it, but let's just stay above the waistline and Oh, no, no,

2 (2h 13m 2s):
Yeah, yeah. So,

0 (2h 13m 3s):
Or below the waistline, I mean, we're biologists after all.

2 (2h 13m 6s):
We, we just, yeah. So it's, it's funny, we, we, we have, we're working on a paper on that right now, on the smell of fear. So, so we have a nice paradigm for generating fear. We throw people out of airplanes. It's a very effective way to generate fear. I

0 (2h 13m 19s):
Have to come to your lab, it sounds like the greatest lab in the world.

2 (2h 13m 22s):
We, we didn't invent that, by the way. The first to do that was, and I hope I'm pronouncing her name correctly, I think it's Muji Peru. But, but that's our paradigm for generating fear. And we started that on our own, but we've since entered into collaboration with the Israeli paratroopers brigade, and we now collect body odor from every first time jumper. So we, we went that path because we like everybody else in this field, you know, the, the holy grail there is, is finding the molecules, right? I mean, if you'll have the fear molecules, that's a bonanza, right? Because, I mean, you know, you could think of many reasons why it would be a bonanza, but for, for me, you know, if, if you find the molecules, you, you can then try and find the receptors.

2 (2h 14m 9s):
And when you find the cognate receptors, you can then develop blockers, and you can imagine, you know, what's the term I'm looking for? I'm switching into Hebrew. It's about midnight now, right? I'm, I'm sorry, it's too warning. You're doing

0 (2h 14m 26s):
Incredibly well, considering the inver of

2 (2h 14m 28s):
Two in the morning. We would never know, no one traveled

0 (2h 14m 31s):
In today from Israel. So he's a, he's a circadian inverted, as we

2 (2h 14m 35s):
Say, anxiety. So, so you, you can imagine developing like a nasal spray against anxiety, right? Where, where you would quell those receptors and kill the fear response, right? Which rather than going the current path, which is through neurotransmitters that then have effects all over the place, you would be getting fear at its source, right? So, so that would be why I would want that. And, and, and we figure out that doing that, you know, collecting fear from like three, four or five people in an experiment, you'll never be able to do analytical chemistry on that. So we now have, we, we have a setting we call Fear bank, which now has more than a thousand samples in it.

2 (2h 15m 16s):
So we're, we're trying to do analytics on that. But, but in doing that, we've, we've joined, you know, the, the crowd, everybody's doing fear and everybody's doing sweat. And in one of our discussions in lab, you know, we were saying, well, there's gotta be, you know, or there potentially definitely could be additional bodily media that are, are playing into social chemo signaling. Now, many of these, you know, you can't really study, right? I mean, so, you know, just to throw right, most spl mammals communicate social information through urine. But, you know, starting doing experiments with humans, with smelling urine, it would be difficult, you know, both in IRB and in agreement and you know, and, and then we, we, we, you know, this is a rare case where we actually hypothesize what we out to do.

2 (2h 16m 5s):
And, you know, and they only claim in retrospect that it was hypothesis is, is tears. We, we, we started thinking about tears and looking into tears because tears are a bodily liquid emotional tears that, that we emit in emotional situations where, where these are situations where nonverbal communication is, is critical and key and, and tears are a liquid that that is puzzling beyond ocular maintenance. Right? And, and so, so you know, the, the most influential text, I think till this day in, in, in emotion research is, is Darwin's book, the showing of the Emotions in Man and Animals, I think is the full name of the book.

2 (2h 16m 56s):
And an entire chapter, chapter six, is devoted to tears, an entire chapter of this book, why? With, with no conclusion. Why? Because the book revolves around describing the functional incidence of emotional expressions. So for example, showing of the teeth as a sign of aggression, right? So, so animals first bit with their teeth. And, and Darwin argued that through evolution, just showing the teeth alone became an aggressive sign because it started from biting. Or what I I find is a, is a beautiful example, and this is work partly done by, by Adam Anderson, now at Cornell is, is the emotional expression of disgust.

2 (2h 17m 42s):
So disgust, which comes from land disk distaste, right? Is spinning something out of your mouth. Now what, what Adam showed is, is that the musculature patterns of activation and the temporal sequence of activation when you experience moral disgust are the same as when you spit a bitters taste out of your mouth, right? So again, so there's a functional incident spitting something out. And through evolution, the argument was that it, it became an expression of emotion and you expressed disgust just as if you're spitting something out of your mouth, even though there, you know, in the case of moral disgust, there's nothing you're spitting out of your mouth.

2 (2h 18m 21s):
So, so darn systematically went through the expressions of emotions, and for each one went to their functional anant and explained everything very nicely. And then he got stuck with tears, right? Because tears are an, obviously an emotional expression and he could not find a functional anant. So he ended up saying, this is an epic phenomenon, basically, right? I, I dunno what, what all scientists do when they don't have a good explanation and blame it on nature, right? Right. So, so, but he bothered to write this entire chapter on, on, on the ocular sort of maintenance com, you know, function of tears and so on and so forth, but, but nothing emotional. So we thought, well, maybe the function is, is a chemical signal.

2 (2h 19m 4s):
And, and, you know, so, so with that in mind, we, we harvested emotional tears, which was also an amusing event on its own right? Because we, we, we, we, we posted messages on all sorts of boards that, that were seeking experiment participants who cry with ease. Now, this generated an unfortunate gender bias in our study, right? Because we received about a hundred women volunteers and about one man. And you know, I think this is not a problem only in, in macho Israel, right? Probably anywhere in the west. This would be, I mean, definitely in America would be the same.

2 (2h 19m 45s):
I think you, my

0 (2h 19m 46s):
Guess is that there are probably men out there who cry easily emotional tears easily. Oh, I'm sure. But they're not gonna show up. Yeah,

2 (2h 19m 52s):
Yeah, that's what I'm saying. Yeah, it's a cultural thing. It's not, you know, you're not gonna come to a lab and say, you know, I cry all the time. It is just not gonna happen. And then we, we, what we did is for each one of these participants, you know, we would ask them, you know, is there a particular film event that you know of that, you know, a scene that that makes you cry? And and interestingly in these effective choirs, there's always Oh, yes. You know, the scene in, in so and so, I always cry profusely from that. You know, they, they have the, can you gimme

0 (2h 20m 21s):
An example of a, one of the more commonly named scenes?

2 (2h 20m 24s):
Yeah, yeah. With these, the movie The Champ Dies, he's a boxer, and he dies, and literally in the hands of his, about eight year old son, and his son is standing next to his bed and, you know, saying, champ, champ, and, and he dies, right? It's a winner. Okay. And waterfalls. Yeah. Yeah. Got it. So, you know, we're probably the neurobiology lab with most sad movie films on those shelf in the world, right? We have a whole huge collection. There is

0 (2h 21m 3s):
A thing as tears of joy, by the way.

2 (2h 21m 5s):
So No,

0 (2h 21m 6s):
No.

2 (2h 21m 7s):
Well, we're going ahead of ourselves, but they say we tried to collect them and failed. Even people who think they shed tears of joy and laughter their eyes water a bit, but it's not the same thing in, in, in the effective criers, we end up screening. So we collect a full ml of tears, a full ml of tears in about 15 minutes. Wow. So, so that's pouring, right? Yeah. And that doesn't happen from laughter that we, or we've never seen that. We've never seen that happen from laughter. We tried. So, so, so we have, we have all these sad films. And by the way, one of the amusing things is when we ultimately published this paper in, in science, we were forced in retrospect to go out and actually buy the films, right?

2 (2h 21m 57s):
I mean, you know, originally we like downloaded them from here, there, but you can't because you're, you'd be violating, you know, copyright, copyright laws, right? So we had to buy, like, purchase all these films that the participants such them, so, so we, we actually have these in lab like DVDs, you know, that we actually purchased, but so, so nice

0 (2h 22m 19s):
Coverage of potential legal fallout there. No,

2 (2h 22m 21s):
Yet. No, we did, I believe, believe, I believe. Yeah. It was that. I believe so. And, and yeah. And, and well, we can touch on that later. But, but so, so we, so most of these volunteers who, who come saying they can cry with ease, actually don't meet the bill. And so out of the about a hundred, at least more women that we screened, we ended up with about six who, who could really come to lab week after week and pour tears.

0 (2h 22m 55s):
There's a name for this in psychiatry, they call it a narrative distancing. Some people, when they watch a film where someone's getting hit, they, they, they, they flinch quite a lot. They, it's almost as if they're experiencing it, but it works in the opposite direction too. I know someone like this where if they watch a film that someone's experiencing something even mildly positive that their mood elevates so they they can quickly bridge. Yeah. And, and it's not always adaptive as you can imagine. So there's lack of narrative distancing, right?

2 (2h 23m 25s):
Yeah. One, one, you know, issue you can bring up with this entire line of studies in our lab is, is I don't know if there's something very unique about the donors, right? I mean, we're assuming these are tiers and no, this is

0 (2h 23m 35s):
Pretty common. I think that the numbers I saw out there, about five to 8% of

2 (2h 23m 40s):
That's exactly what we got about right? Interesting. About 600. So, so, so we collected tiers and, and we exposed participants to these tiers. And, and we found a few things. First of all, the tears are completely odorless. You cannot detect them at all, completely odorless. And yet when you sniff them, you have a pronounced reduction in testosterone within about 20 minutes, half an hour. This

0 (2h 24m 19s):
Is men and women smelling men, women's tears. Men men smelling women's tears. Yeah. But not perceiving any odor, nothing,

2 (2h 24m 25s):
Just sniffing them. And you have about 14% drop in free testosterone free.

0 (2h 24m 34s):
Okay? So this is testosterone that's already been liberated from the testes

2 (2h 24m 37s):
Free testosterone

0 (2h 24m 38s):
For that. We've done a few hormone that's either bound or unbound is unbound, excuse me. Yeah. From sex hormone binding globulin, et cetera. And it's the active form. So it's, it's it's subject to very short timescale changes. Yeah.

2 (2h 24m 53s):
And, and this is, you know, people who, who studied testosterone, which is not me, but they tell me this is a really strong effect. Like, it's, it's hard to even pharmacologically get an effect like that, that fast. Yeah. I mean, no pharmacology.

0 (2h 25m 6s):
Yeah. Years ago I spent time studying endocrine effects of this sort. And that's a, a tremendous sized effect, right?

2 (2h 25m 12s):
So, and so here, I'll point out in passing that one, one of the concerns we had because of the effort to run this study is that nobody would ever try to replicate it. And to our joy about two years later, an independent group from South Korea, al I don't know at all, replicated the testosterone effect to a t I mean, like same numbers. So, so it it lowers testosterone. And, and, and we then also looked using MR at the, at the effect on brain activity and saw pronounced EF effect on activity, a dampening a lowering of activity under, under an arousing state, a lowering of activity both in the hypothalamus and in the fusiform DRIs for whatever reason, I don't know, first

0 (2h 26m 13s):
Recognition area

2 (2h 26m 15s):
Amongst other things. Yes. And we don't know why, but pronounced and currently Shania groan in our lab is replicating this again and this time with a stronger behavioral component. And I can share with you unpublished data now under review. That's, as you would expect, given the effect on testosterone, perhaps sniffing tears, lowers aggression in men. Very interesting. Using, again, the tap, the same experiment used by yon in, in the ol experiment.

0 (2h 26m 51s):
I'm gonna, the, the tap, the, I'm gonna think of that as the, the sad, the the titration. The sadist titration,

2 (2h 26m 58s):
Yeah. Tyler aggression paradigm. So not

0 (2h 26m 60s):
Unlike the milgrim experiments of the, of the 1950s, which post this was looking at sort of post-holocaust behavior, right. You know, people basically tor in American laboratories thinking they were torturing other people. Yeah. Simply because they were told to. And a lot of people did that, even though most people would report that they would never torture somebody else.

2 (2h 27m 20s):
Yeah. No, humans are not a wonderful species. Well,

0 (2h 27m 23s):
Or as we could say, I think it was the, the, the great Carl Young that said, we have all things inside of us, but the, the goal is not to experience them all. Certainly, it's an incredible study. And it points again to the, the, the power of, of these chemo sensory systems and, and pathways. And obviously there's so much here.

2 (2h 27m 47s):
I don't know if you want me to, to tell about this or not. And I guess you can edit it out, please. You don't, but please, this is just, you know, sharing stories about the politics of science and, and so, so whereas the effect on testosterone was, was replicated by, by an independent group in the original study in, in science where we had, we, it had three components. One was the effect on testosterone, which was robust, the second, which was brain activity, which was robust, and there was a significant but weaker effect on behavior. And I don't think we studied the right behavior in retrospect. What we looked at then was ratings of arousal associated with pictures.

2 (2h 28m 33s):
And there, there was an effect. It was significant, but it was, it was not what carried the story. Now, there's a lab in Holland of a guy by the name of vin. I'm probably mispronouncing this, but I think it's veer hoes

0 (2h 28m 54s):
For the non Dutch. Yeah. Dutch names are always a little bit of a challenge, but,

2 (2h 28m 58s):
And I shouldn't say that being an Israeli, I shouldn't go too much on that line, but, but that lab really didn't like our original tier story. And the reason they didn't like it is because they've, they've built a career on this notion, including a book with this title, that emotional tears are uniquely human. Now, here I should, well, I should share. So one of, one of the things we really liked about the, the, the tier result is that partially before we did our work, but more afterwards.

2 (2h 29m 39s):
And, and we like that because usually things, so usually in our chemo signaling work, like what I told you before about the Bruce effect, we look at what happens in ruins and we see if the same thing is happening in humans. This was a rare case where after we did this work, more or less identical effects were discovered in rodents. So a paper published in nature two years later found that mouse tears, mouse pup tears lower aggression in, in male adult mice towards them in a,

0 (2h 30m 8s):
In a smell dependent way.

2 (2h 30m 10s):
Yeah, yeah, yeah. So, and, and, and they also actually found the actual component in tears that, so the tear pheromone that lowers aggression, right? So, so, you know, this has us thinking of agre as tears as, as, as you can think of tears as like a, a chemical blanket in a way that, that you're covering yourself up again with, you know, to protect against aggression. Right? And, and so our finding, you know, which to me, I mean, this is consistent with how I think about behavior in general. I, you know, I don't think, you know, beyond language, there are very few things definitely sensory things that are uniquely human. You know, I I I, I'd be hard pressed, but so, so, you know, our finding went against, you know, against their, their story, right?

2 (2h 30m 53s):
Because, you know, here we're saying no, you know, tears are this chemo singling mechanism like all animals. And by the way, I, you know, just after this entire debate about six months ago, there was a paper in current biology, the dogs emit emotional tears. And, and it was, the dogs emit emotional tears when they reunite with their owners. And you were talking before about, about oxytocin. So I think what they showed there is that not only that, but that the, the, the view of seeing the tears and the dog influences oxytocin in, in the humans. I absolutely hope I'm getting this right, but

0 (2h 31m 32s):
That's, I absolutely believe this. I mean, I, from the, from the time I brought Costello home at eight weeks old,

2 (2h 31m 38s):
Tells your dog,

0 (2h 31m 39s):
He's my dog, unfortunately passed away, but having a long time, actually, the only time I can recall crying, listen, I, I've certainly cried before many times in my life, many, many times. The only time I ever recall crying to the point where I wasn't sure that I could keep producing two years, but somehow it is when I had to put him down, right? It's just like, you know, and if I talk about too long now, I'll start trying to, you know, it's one of those things and I think, I think it's a healthy emotional state. Yeah, sure. For sure. But I recall when he was a puppy thinking this oxytocin thing must be real, because I can recall being in faculty meetings, which, you know, fairly, fairly stated are not always that interesting, but they're, they could be pretty interesting.

0 (2h 32m 19s):
And someone presenting data in my mind, thinking, I hope Costello's okay, what's he doing down in my office? This is when he was very little. And also not needing to eat, not being able to focus on anything else except my attachment to him for about the first two or three weeks that I had him. Then it was easy, then I could focus off on other things. And I think, I think that dogs, perhaps through oxytocin, hijacked the circuitry that's intended for child rear. Yeah, I really do. Otherwise, why would people be so ridiculously attached to their dogs? I mean, hence all the, the posts of everyone thinks their dog is the cutest dog, the same way everyone thinks their children are the cutest children. And you know, Casa by the way, was a very handsome

2 (2h 32m 57s):
Bull dog. So, so, so yeah. So, so, so again, so they're, so even, you know, to put another nail in that story of, of, of tears are uniquely human, so they're not dogs shed emotional tears. And, and, and so that group really didn't like this, and they went ahead and, and tried to replicate. And to your listeners, I'm showing double quotations on the replicate only the behavioral part, the ratings of arousal in women of women and, and failed to replicate

0 (2h 33m 35s):
That. I see

2 (2h 33m 37s):
Now, this, this was, you know, just sharing on how science works and doesn't work in my, in my notion in this case. So at the time, after they got this accepted in some journal, not a field journal, in a journal of memory of something, they contacted me for a, a response. And I, I wrote to the office and I said, look, you know, this is very odd to me. Why don't you come, you know, why don't we replicate this again together and see if it doesn't work? If it doesn't work, I'll publish it with you that it doesn't work. But, you know, and so I said, why don't you send over a graduate student or the lead author, and we'll do it here and we'll show them how it's done.

2 (2h 34m 23s):
Because they, they did it very wrongly in the paper. And so they replied that, no, they don't have money to send over a graduate student to do it. So I replied saying, okay, I'll fund the graduate student coming over and I'll fund the entire study and their stay and so on and so forth, and let's do this together. And they replied, no, they're not willing to, to do that, which, you know, I don't think is the way things should work. And, and they published this sort of failed behavioral effect in, in that paper. So I'm just sharing this, you know, that it's not only there, there was that successful replication with the effect on testosterone, but there was supposedly this failed replication on the effect in, in behavior.

2 (2h 35m 7s):
And then I published a, a rebuttal on, on that, which I don't know if I should have done, but I did.

0 (2h 35m 12s):
Well, I think it's, it's interesting. I mean, I, I think provided studies are done correctly. I mean, the, the positive result almost always trumps the, the negative result. And yet I think replication is key. The problem as you pointed out, is that replication is rarely pure replication of the exact study. Yeah. This one study,

2 (2h 35m 28s):
This one is not even remotely, but in, in, i, I published the detail. So actually they hid something in their data that did partially work. So I, I asked for their data and I reanalyzed it, and that's what I published in the rebuttal. But, you know, this is just sharing on, on how science works. I, I took advice. So I'm, it's not that that I'm friends with him, but at that, that time I was communicating a bit because we were on some board with, with with Daniel Conman, who's, who's Nobel, you keep fast

0 (2h 35m 54s):
And slow,

2 (2h 35m 55s):
Right? And so, so I asked him, how, how should I deal with this? You know, gimme some advice here. I I was really, you know, it, it, it was an emotionally not fun to be in that position. And he said, don't, a, don't, don't n never publish a rebuttal, don't do anything. And I was, you know, how can I, you know, I have to do something. He said, no, don't. Because once you do that, then, you know, people don't go into the details. They won't read the details of your rebuttal. They'll be like, well, there's a group that says this, and there's a group that says that. So it's unclear. Well,

0 (2h 36m 28s):
And yeah, I mean, I, I appreciate that you're bringing it up today, and I, I do appreciate that you published the rebuttal and that you offered in a very magnanimous way to, to do a collaboration.

2 (2h 36m 37s):
That's what he then said. That's so, so, so common's advice after that was that, well, if you insist, then just publish, write a response that you offered them to, to come do it together. They refused. And there's nothing you can do about that.

0 (2h 36m 51s):
It's a lot like fight sports, right? People talk a lot of trash. Although in science, you know, I will say this, you know, as long as we're on the, the sociology of science, science is very,

2 (2h 37m 1s):
D states are lower,

0 (2h 37m 1s):
Science is very different than podcasting or social media or other fields. Because in science, people generally are very kind to your face. And then they, you get it in the, you get it in the neck on grant reviews or anonymous reviews. Yep. I was on a grants review panel this morning. I'm a nice reviewer, meaning I judge things objectively. But I, I try to always think from the perspective of the graduate student author of the, of the proposal, listen, I, I think that science is a, is a game of, of, of people who, most of them are seeking facts. However, the, the ego is strongly woven into it, like any, like anything else. So I think it was very magnanimous of you to offer the collaboration.

0 (2h 37m 42s):
So I'm gonna tell this lab whose name I can't pronounce. Please accept the collaboration, then we can invite everyone on here for a round table. I appreciate that you shared that story, and I know a number of other people will, for a number of reasons. I have a couple of more questions, and I realize, and thank you by the way, for your, for your willingness and stamina, because it is probably 1:00 AM Israel time now, and you just arrived later, I think, but you're doing terrifically well. So I I if you'll indulge us just a, a touch further, there are two topics that I want to touch on. And if you want to cover these in shorter thrift, that's fine. Although don't feel any obligation to, the first one is, I think most people are familiar with the scent of food or foods as a signal of the nutrient contents of those foods.

0 (2h 38m 30s):
You know, an orange that smells great or that smell of something baking. You know, it didn't, it, it suggests something about the, the contents and quality of that food. After all, you and I both separately lived in the same apartment in Berkeley above the Cheeseboard, which the smell of cheese wafting up through the cheeseboard is something I will never forget. And the breads never forget it. Amazing bread.

2 (2h 38m 52s):
I mean, I don't know if you've conveyed that clearly enough to listeners or watchers. No.

0 (2h 38m 57s):
The probability

2 (2h 38m 58s):
Is we really just discovered that we lived in the same, we never met, I mean, like this before. Yep. And we lived in the same,

0 (2h 39m 6s):
Are we clique friends?

2 (2h 39m 9s):
I had a, in a lingering way, I guess.

0 (2h 39m 11s):
Absolutely. Through the, through the, the, through the

2 (2h 39m 14s):
Floorboards. It had a great floor of that place. It had a great wooden floor.

0 (2h 39m 17s):
It was an amazing place. I lived there with my girlfriend for a year and a half, and then it was an amazing place. We won't give it out the address Yeah. For out of respect for the people that live there now. But do check out the cheeseboard if you're ever in Berkeley. Their hours are weird, but, so you have to look online, but that they're, it's a unique place. Yeah. With, with great bread and cheese and some good flavors of pizza. In any case, I'm wondering whether or not smell can signal things about the nutrient contents of foods in a way that's divorced from the smell that we are perceiving. So for instance, I could imagine based on what you've told us about Smell Today, that, you know, I, I don't know.

0 (2h 40m 4s):
I, I, I, I smell a, a, a piece of meat cooking and it smells great to me. And I think of it as, oh, that's so savory and my mouth is watering. And I, I love the smell of this. And I'm thinking, okay, this is protein and fat, and I love the taste of steak and a little bit of char, but that nature has co-opted that to get, ensure, or I should say, increase the likelihood that I will ingest some other thing that's in stake for, that has no odor, but whose nutrient content is very important to me. For instance, amino acids. Right? Right. I mean, amino acids are essential to life, and yet we don't go around sniffing for amino acids. We go around sniffing for savoriness umami type tastes and, and things of that sort.

0 (2h 40m 50s):
So I could imagine a million different examples of this in the same way I could imagine that the scent of somebody that we fall in love with or become romantically attached to, or, you know, sexually attracted to is signaling all sorts of things about Sure. The potential for offspring of a particular immune status. That's a long-term game, but also something about pleasure and safety of a potential interaction. So what I'm asking here is about that whether or not there are subconscious signals that the olfactory system has learned to seek, but learned to seek through more overt signals, sort of the, the tip of the iceberg phenomenon.

0 (2h 41m 29s):
Yeah.

2 (2h 41m 30s):
So, you know, I don't have a good answer for you, although I think it's a really good question or, or, or a good idea in fact. So, so whether, whether the there's, you know, order cues on nutrient value is a really good idea. Moreover, it's probably good to the extent that somebody probably did it, and I should know, and don't, we haven't done anything on that line. So I don't know, I don't know if, if the nutrient value of food is systematically encoded in odor, if that's not been done, and I will check after our meeting today, then it should be That's a really good idea.

0 (2h 42m 18s):
I mean, one of the reasons I ask this is because, you know, the obesity crisis in the US is a huge issue and elsewhere and highly processed foods, you know, have a lot of things that are problematic. But one of the things that they don't have often is a direct relationship between the scent, the taste, and the nut and the nutrient content. And I don't mean macronutrients, sugar, fat, I, excuse me, carbohydrates, fats, and proteins, but the, the vitamins and micronutrients things that support the microbiome, whereas foods that are not highly processed, for instance, meat or a piece of fruit contain many micronutrients that are vital to aspects of our biology.

0 (2h 42m 58s):
But we don't go around sniffing for probiotics.

2 (2h 43m 0s):
I'll tell you one sort of factoid that may support your hypothesis here. And that is that there appears to be potential olfactory, perceptual similarity in metabolic products. So something that's metabolized from something else has perceptual similarity across those, those two things. So, so, so metabolic cascades play into the coating of all factory space, and, and that is consistent with the direction you're, you are, you are implying, but again, I don't, I don't know of a direct test of, of, of nutritional value in smell.

2 (2h 43m 48s):
And, and again, the fact that I don't know doesn't mean of course that it doesn't exist. And in this case, I would suspect that it should exist in scientific press. And, and if not there then with the companies that have vested interest in this, which are many,

0 (2h 44m 5s):
Briefly

2 (2h 44m 6s):
Share, just, just please an, an and amusing anecdote to share with you is that we've received two independent peop, you know, of companies who have turned to our lab recently asking for help to, to bring odor to engineered meat, right? That's a growing thing. And all these, you know, meats that are going,

0 (2h 44m 30s):
You had to bring it up. This, this audience is going to be very polarized along the, along the lines of engineered meat. Yeah.

2 (2h 44m 38s):
I'm, I'm

0 (2h 44m 39s):
You're not, you're not pro, you're not promoting Oh,

2 (2h 44m 41s):
No, no, no, no, no. I, I'm, I'm agnostic. But, but, but we've had two companies turn to us and say, look, you know, we have this great product, but it just doesn't smell like meat, so help us make it smell like meat.

0 (2h 44m 53s):
Interesting. The reason it's so polarizing is that anything related to nutrition on social media is a total barbed wire topic. We've had experts on nutrition. Come on here, we'll have more, but

2 (2h 45m 2s):
I'm nothing,

0 (2h 45m 3s):
Don't worry. You're, you're, you're safe. No, don't worry. Noah's not, and is not promoting, he hasn't even said whether or not he's gonna help them out. No,

2 (2h 45m 11s):
We we're not actually, no, no, because yeah, it just never, it didn't happen. Yeah.

0 (2h 45m 15s):
No, the, the, whether or not those engineered meets are yum, yuck, are met is is a personal issue to people in terms of taste, whether or not they are better for neutral or worse for you and the planet than given the ingredients that are required. That's a, a whole world we'll avoid now. I, I

2 (2h 45m 35s):
Will, but take, you know, I'll take that the opportunity to, to, to highlight something related maybe because on on what you're saying, on the, on the scale, you know, there's this, you know, I'll take the opportunity to dispel another misconception about ol faction, right? There's this common notion that our sense of smell is incredibly subjective, right? And that what you might like in the smell I will not like in the smell. And that we all have our own, you know, totally subjective world of all faction. I think I know the study you're gonna tell me there are many, the cross-cultural similarities. There are many that, that is utterly untrue.

2 (2h 46m 15s):
Many not only from my lab, there are many from many labs. Please clarify for those that don't follow this literature. So, so yeah. So, so humans are incredibly similar to one another in their all factory perception. And this is in contrast to which most people think. So why, why is there this misconception? The misconception is there for two reasons, first of all, or for several reasons, but two are stand out. First of all, we're, we're attracted by outliers because you know, I'll tell somebody, look, you know, for example, a factory pleasantness is highly correlated amongst humans.

2 (2h 46m 55s):
And let's first put this in numbers. You'll take a, a bunch of humans and a bunch of odorants and have them rate pleasantness. The correlation across the humans will be about 0.8. That's incredibly high. Incredibly high. What do you think is pleasant? I think is pleasant. Yeah. Yeah. Now why, why does that go against what culturally people think? For two reasons. First of all, we're, we're attracted or, or biased by outliers. But that's particularly that shows in fact the result. What do I mean? So you'll tell somebody, look, people are very similar in their pleasantness estimates in the cell. You know, that can't be, I love cilantro and you know, my girlfriend hates the smell of cilantro, right?

2 (2h 47m 35s):
Or, and there are a few classic examples there. Guava, right? You know, is another polarizing orders. So there are a few polarizing orders, right? And, and that's true, right? So that's true that, you know, half of the population loves the smell of cilantro and half hates it, half loves guava, half hates it. That's true. Microwave pop popcorn. However, I assure you that, you know, you can come to our lab, we have about a thousand odorants in our lab, okay? We won't smell the thousand, right? But I assure you, you know, take a hundred odorants, okay, from our mixtures and labs, right? And we'll, we'll smell them, right? And out of the hundred odors, 90 will totally agree on, right?

2 (2h 48m 18s):
And including univer. I mean, you know, nobody will say they like the smell of feces or fecal smells. And everybody will say they like the smell of rose and flowery smells. There will be rare, rare exceptions. Again, the correlation about 0.8 across individuals. So a 90 of a hundred will usually be in high agreement. Then five ordering will be in sort of intermediate agreements. And yes, there'll be the five odorants that we're in total disagreement on. But I asked you, you know, if we agree on 95 and disagree on five, are we the same or are we different? We're the same. They're just outliers to this, to this rule. And, and, and so one reason is this issue of, of outliers attract how we think about things, but no, we're actually much more similar than, than what we think.

2 (2h 49m 4s):
And the second thing that that drives this cultural effect is the la is our poor application of language to olfaction, right? So, so in other sensory systems we grow up with, we, we we're, we're we develop with anchors, right? So since you're a little kid, you know, your're mother shows you a cow and says, what does a cow do? Moo, right? And we all know moomoo, and what color is this? It's, well, this is kind of an odd black, but it's black, right? Or, or what color is that? It's red, right? So you have these anchors, but as you all know, you know, the red that I'm seeing is not necessarily the red that you're seeing. We just both know to call that red. And since you say red, and I say red, I think why we're seeing the same thing, but no, we're not seeing the same thing, right?

2 (2h 49m 45s):
And in, in odor, we don't have those anchors, right? We, we don't from childhood, you know, our mom doesn't tell us, so what's this smell and what's that smell, right? And so we don't have these language anchors that make us think that we're perceiving the same thing. Now, how can you quantify that? The most important term in, in measuring sensory systems is similarity, right? That's the measure, right? So what can you do? Let's say we take 10 odorants and I have you rate all the pairwise similarities, right? So you end up with 45 numbers, right? So you know how similar is one to two, one to three, and one to four, and then two and all the possible wise similarities. Let's say you rate similarity from one, which is totally dissimilar to a hundred, exactly the same, right?

2 (2h 50m 28s):
So now I have a similarity matrix that describes Andrew's perception of smell, right? I have, you know, based on these 10 odorants that I selected, now I can run my similarity matrix and then I can see if the similarity matrix are correlated, right? And then we've gotten rid of the issue of names and orders, right? It doesn't matter if, I'll call this lemon in this orange and you call this sweet potato in this marshmallow, right? It doesn't matter if I think that these two are highly similar and you agree, and I think that these two are very different, and you agree, right? We perceive the world in the same way if our similarity matrixes are aligned, right? And what's nice about that is that then you can do that for vision audition and off action in a common group, and you can see where we're more alike each other or not.

2 (2h 51m 16s):
And we've done that for color vision, all faction and tonal audition, okay? And we are most dissimilar in color vision, okay? We're in color vision. The variance is about a hundred percent amazing. It's quite different. And there's tons of literature on this, tons of it, tons of it, right? And in all faction and audition, they're about the same. So we're not different. We're very similar. We're just very poor at appreciating this. And, and mind you, not that there's not variability, there is variability. And of course the system is malleable as all sensory systems are. So you can learn to like an odor and, and that will change you and learn to dislike an odor, right?

2 (2h 51m 58s):
But just the way you can learn to like a sound or dislike a sound. So, you know, this doesn't take away from the hardwired link of a structure to its perception that you can, that they're malleable. And, and, and we're we're not very variable. We're, we're actually kind of similar.

0 (2h 52m 14s):
That's a perfect segue to the question I have next, which is if in general people perceive certain odors, similarly, you could imagine that odors could be manufactured, co-opted, et cetera, in order to elicit richer sensory experiences and drive choice making. Yeah, that's obvious at the level of the smell of a hotdog stand or freshly baked bread, et cetera. But what I'm talking about here, and I'd like to ask you about is doing this at scale. And scientists, geeks like to say in silico in through computers. So for a long time now, there's been this idea that there will soon be Google smell.

0 (2h 52m 58s):
Not to call out. Google is the only search engine, but duck, duck go smell. For those of you that don't want hear, smell, chat, g PT smell you your chat, g p T and on and on. In other words, you know, vision, visual cue information is sent through computer interfaces, right? As is auditory information. Not so much haptic somatic sensory, although it can, you know, we, our lab uses vr, it's a, it, it can be done, right? But it hasn't really taken hold. However, smell being such a rich source of behavioral and hormonal and other sorts of deep, deep information that can drive people in into yum, yuck, or <unk> type decision making.

0 (2h 53m 39s):
Yeah. Seems like an amazing candidate. So what is your experience with generating smells in silico in computers? And here folks, for those of you that aren't catching on to this, and, and I don't expect that everyone would, because what we're really alluding to here is the idea that you'll look at, you'll put into a search engine blueberry pancakes recipe. And that not only will you get photos of those blueberry pancakes and a recipe, but you will get the hopefully validated odor of those pancakes and that recipe coming at you in real time through the computer.

2 (2h 54m 18s):
So I'll start off answering from, from the, the name you threw out there, Google. So about probably about five years ago, Google had an April Fool's spoof. Oh, right. And they put out this video of Google Smell. Okay. And, and it had all these like classic like sales images of, you know, holding up your phone to a rose and it generating rose and, and, and all these things. Right? So Google is now trying to do that and they just, they just published, I mean, I, I know they've been trying to do it for a while.

2 (2h 55m 0s):
They visited our lab, but they just sort of went public with this that really just like about a, a month ago or something that, that they have this offshoot startup, I think it's called Osmo or something like that, that started off with a ridiculous sum of money for a startup, like, I don't know, tons of money. A lot. There's a lot of money in that world. Yeah, yeah. In Google. Yeah. To, to, you know, to digitize smell. And, and, and there are other companies that are trying to do this as well. And we've been talking now for quite a while about our, our lab's chemo signaling work.

2 (2h 55m 43s):
But actually half of our lab is devoted to this question of, of ultimately digitizing smell. And, and so, so this is a very, very active field of research. And, and, and I'll say one thing that that dovetails with what you were talking about before. In many ways, COVID is going to be one of the best things that ever happened to all faction research, because suddenly all the world is, are all the world, lots of people are, are very cognizant of the importance of smell. And the smell is like way up there in people's awareness because of Covid.

2 (2h 56m 25s):
And this is driving a renaissance of, of olfaction research and, and awareness to olfaction is something that's worth paying attention to. And, and our lab has been involved in this way, in this effort for a long time where, where the initial part of this effort is in fact to develop a set of rules that link odor structure to odor perception. That is the, the going saying was that, that until recently, at least there was no scientist or perfumer for that matter, who could look at the structure of a novel molecular mixture and predict for you how it will smell or smell something and tell you what it molecular structure could or should be.

2 (2h 57m 9s):
You know, so in in contrast, let's say the trivial like color vision, let's say. So you know, if, if, if you know what the wavelength of the light is, you more or less know what perceived color it's gonna be. Of course there are exceptions to that and, and, and all sorts of issues. But as a rule, you, you would know or you know, or the other way around, you know, you can generate a wavelength and you would know what color light it's going to be perceived. So, so that's an example of where the rules linking structure in this case measured by wavelength and perception. In this case experience dis color. The rules are well known in all faction. We didn't have that until recently, but over the past few years, a bunch of labs have really pushed this forward.

2 (2h 57m 51s):
There's a bunch of work out of Leslie Vash Hall's lab at Rockefeller and Andreas Keller working with Leslie, who who've done a lot of work on this front, also worked from Joel Mainland's lab lab at Mon and Fair Discovery. Joel was a, a graduate student in our lab. And, and recently in our lab we've had, and, and I hope this doesn't come across as overly arrogant, but we, we've had a sort of mini breakthrough on this front to call something a mini breakthrough as far from, and, and, and, and this is a paper led by Aaron Revia from our lab, and Kobe Schnitz, also a major contributor there, a paper published in nature about a year and a half ago in the height of a covid pandemic.

2 (2h 58m 40s):
So nobody really, or I won't say nobody, but it, it wasn't noticed in the way it would otherwise would've been. It was, it was published in nature really on like a week where the whole world was like going berserk over covid. And in this paper we develop an algorithmic framework where we can predict the perceptual similarity of any two molecular mixtures with very, very high accuracy. So if you gimme two molecular mixtures, I can predict how similar you, you will smell them to be. Hmm. Okay. Now not only could we predict that, but we could design it so we can generate mixtures with known and similarities.

2 (2h 59m 26s):
And the, the, the result was highlighted and, and, and you'll appreciate this coming from vision, is that using our algorithmic solution, we generated olfactory metaverses. So we measured mixtures completely non-overlapping in their molecular structure, but they smell exactly the same. Okay. Now, if you would come to a classic perfumer or most classic perfumers and tell them that you can generate two mixtures with zero molecules in common, but smell exactly the same, they would tell you no. And yet we did. And, and anybody can recreate them. This is simple actually.

2 (3h 0m 8s):
And, and in the paper we do a few things, like we generate a metavir for Chanel number five. So you don't like perfumes. So this one, but, but we, we, we take, so we generate a Chanel number five with no component from Chanel number five in it. Okay. And we actually have a, a, a publicly available website. I'll give it to you for your links if you want that. Anybody can do this. We built an, an engine that you can generate these, these meta mirrors. Now, once we did that, in a way we've generated the, the, the, the infrastructure for digitizing smell because what again, what we, what our, what our algorithm predicts our, our framework predicts the similarity, but in a way that's enough for you.

2 (3h 0m 51s):
Why is that enough? We have a map of 4,000 molecules for each one. We know they're a perceived smell. Now you can make up any mixture you want for me, I can project it into that map and measure its pairwise distance from all the points in the map. If it falls on lemon, then what you generated smells like lemon. And if it falls, you know, on tomato, then what you generated smells like tomato. So we, we now solve that problem. We can predict the odor of any molecular mixture. We can say how it's going to smell. What we can do is then find a set of components which we call odor primaries that can be used to mix any odor that you can perceive.

2 (3h 1m 37s):
And, and that's what we're working on now and about a month ago. So this is in collaboration with a lab of Jonathan Williams and Max Plank in Munich. Jonathan Williams is an atmospheric chemist, but he's really good at, at using gcms, these tools that measure molecules. So Jonathan Williams measured Odorants in Germany, transmitted the information to us over ip. We fed that into our algorithmic framework and recreated it from a device that mixes primaries. And we tried to do four different odorants in our, our proof of concept test.

2 (3h 2m 20s):
One of them was rose and we failed at recreating rose. We in fact recreated something that had a percep, but most people perceived it as bubble gum. The second one we tried to do was Anis and we failed at recreating Anis. And most people said it was cherry, which is not very far, but it failed. The third was gasoline. And we were slightly but significantly better than chance at recreating gasoline. And the fourth with was Violets. And 15 of 16 people said, violets. So the first odor ever transmitted over IP is violets.

2 (3h 3m 1s):
And we did that last month. Of course, this is not anything near a practical solution. The device that Jonathan was using to measure is a 1.5 million device bigger than this table.

0 (3h 3m 19s):
That's right. I remember when VCRs, half the audience won't even know what that is. VCRs were like this big. So we're, we're all good. Oh yeah. I'm all good with the, with the prediction that things will come down in size and cost.

2 (3h 3m 30s):
Yeah, I was just saying, you know, don't hold your breath for this to be on your table tomorrow. And, and you know, again, even, even, you know, all we have in hand is this very initial proof of concept. You know, it doesn't, it's not even yet close to being a paper we are submitting because there's still lots of work to be done. But we're on, we're on the path. We're on the path. And you know, Google will probably beat us to it. They got a lot. Oh,

0 (3h 3m 57s):
I don't know. You seem pretty doggy in there, you know?

2 (3h 3m 59s):
Yeah. But they have so much more resources that, that at this stage. And, and, and they, they've already published two papers from that effort that are good. Yeah. You know, if they

0 (3h 4m 13s):
Definitely have a lot of dollars in a lot of people, a lot of good neuroscience and other biology engineering graduate students in postdocs go there. But, but the real question is, are they getting the best people? Because as you and I both know, in science, the oftentimes it's small groups of, of the very best and most creative people that can outrun and outgun large groups. And, and here I don't have anything against Google, by

2 (3h 4m 37s):
The way.

0 (3h 4m 37s):
Yeah, I know. I I use it all the time. I,

2 (3h 4m 40s):
I'm not a betting man, but I would put my, my money on Google on this race. But I'll give, I'll try and give them a, a, a run for their money. There you go.

0 (3h 4m 48s):
Let's that one. Well, well, since I mostly just want to see the problem solved, regardless of who gets there first, what I'll say is you better get going Google. Cause no's being he's humble and he's dogged. I better, better get cracken there. We just cost the weekends of and, and broke up the relationships of a bunch of scientist. I remember when I was a graduate student at Berkeley, I remember hearing there was a guy in, in our common friend, Irv Irving Zucker's lab that worked a hundred hours a week. So I was like, oh, I'll work 102 hours a week, which was not a good choice. But in any case, it's, it's, it's abundantly clear that you're making progress here. And I, and I go to some of the earlier discussions we had, and I think we're not just talking about transferring recipes and smells of, of food, gasoline from people watching the, the F1 race or something.

0 (3h 5m 34s):
But I'm thinking dating apps, I'm thinking you nowadays, everyone knows that when you travel and you want to see your family, your grandkids or kids, you better to get on FaceTime and see them or zoom than to just hear their voice. We're talking about being able to smell them. I'll

2 (3h 5m 50s):
Tell you more than that. I'll tell you more than that. I mean, we're talking now of trying to achieve the olfactory equivalent of circa 1956 black and white tv. Okay? Basically, right? I mean, you know, I'm not dreaming, let's say, of being able to transmit to you the difference between a cabernet or arm Merlot. Right? But if I can generate something that's vaguely wine, that will be an amazing success from my perspective, right? But jump ahead in your imagination to, to 4K order transmission, then medical diagnostics is what you wanna be talking about. Because in, in this is, this is over extension, but you can almost say that every disease will have an odor.

2 (3h 6m 37s):
I mean, every disease is a specific metabolic process. Metabolic process have metabolites, metabolites have a smell, olfaction once it's digitized and, and high resolution, which again, in our hands, it's not gonna be, I mean, we're talking, you know, in my retirement, maybe I'll read about this one day, if I'll still have vision, I mean, this is not close, but when, when olfaction digitization is brought to the equivalent of 4K vision and audition that you have now, then it will be in medical diagnosis. You, you'll have, excuse me, for the, the imagery, but you will have an electronic nose in your bathroom.

2 (3h 7m 19s):
Each one of us will have in the toilet, and it will be doing diagnostics all the time. And, and that's, that's where it's gonna go. But again, n not anywhere in the very close future.

0 (3h 7m 33s):
Well, it's, it's certainly an exciting proposition and I'm delighted that you and other groups who are so strong are working on it. I really am. No, my, I want to say thank you for your time today. First of all, this was a tremendously interesting conversation, and we touched on so many things. Hormone smells, the architecture of the olfactory system. I know that people listening to this are realizing, but I'm gonna say it anyway, what an incredible gift you've given us in as a thank you, as a expert in this field, giving us this tour of, of the work that you and others who you credit so generously have done to elucidate this incredible system that we call olfaction chemo sensation.

0 (3h 8m 19s):
Thanks. Also, just for the incredibly pioneering work that you've done. You know, I, I don't have many heroes in science. I have heroes outside of science and a few in insights. But I'm gonna, I'm gonna purposely embarrass myself a little bit by saying that from the time I was at Berkeley. And I then, and saw that experiment being done of people foraging, falling ascent trails. And then when I was a ju until I was a junior professor, I used that in my teaching slides in a class that I taught that was sort of the early origins of this podcast in many way. And over and over again, when your laboratory publishes papers, I find like this is super interesting, super cool, and I find myself telling everybody about it.

0 (3h 9m 0s):
And that's really what I do for, for a living, is I, I learn and then I blab about it to, to the world. So thank you so much for the work that you've done and the spirit that you bring to it. Whatever drives that spirit as the great late Ben Baris used to say, keep going because we are all benefiting tremendously. And and I also just wanna say that, you know, for people listening to this, that the spirit of science is one of, as you mentioned, there's complex politics and all these things, but it's absolutely clear that you delight in the work you do. And so I delight in it. I'm grateful for it. I'm grateful for your time today. And so on behalf of me and, and many, many people listening to this, I just wanna extend it, a huge debt of gratitude.

0 (3h 9m 41s):
Thank you so much.

2 (3h 9m 43s):
Oh, so I'm, I'm the, I'm blushing. I don't know if this doesn't come across on the, on the Radio podcast, but thank you so much for very warm words. I mean, you know, as you know, when you work in your lab, you don't, there's these moments where you suddenly discover that somebody is like, cares a bit about it. And those are always very rewarding moments because usually you, you function without that. I mean, I guess that's one of the things you need to be a scientist, is to have the, you know, the drive to work without that because it, it comes only rarely.

0 (3h 10m 22s):
There's immense gratitude and appreciation for you and what you do from me, and now I know from a large segment of the world as well. So my only request is that you come back and tell us about the next results sometime not too long from now.

2 (3h 10m 35s):
Yeah. Well, I'm, I'm gonna catch you live now, although you have the power to edit this, so I guess that's not fair. But first you come visit us in Israel and, and tell us both about the science and the public science work you're doing, and then I'll come again. Fair enough. A good bargain.

0 (3h 10m 51s):
And I accept delighted. Thank you so much.

2 (3h 10m 54s):
Yeah, pleasure.

0 (3h 10m 55s):
Thank you for joining me for today's discussion about olfaction and chemo sensation with Dr. Nom Sobel. If you'd like to learn more about the work in the Sobel laboratory, or read some of the papers described during today's episode, as well as learn about the current and future projects in the Sobel Laboratory, please go to the link provided in the show note caption. If you're learning from and or enjoying this podcast, please subscribe to our YouTube channel. That's a terrific zero cost way to support us. In addition, please subscribe to the podcast on both Spotify and Apple and on both Spotify and Apple. You can leave us up to a five star review. If you have questions for me or comments about the podcast or guests or topics that you'd like me to include in future huberman Lab podcasts, please put those in the comments section on YouTube.

0 (3h 11m 37s):
I do read all the comments. Please also check out the sponsors mention at the beginning and throughout today's episode. That's the best way to support this podcast.

Momentous (3h 11m 44s):
Not so much on today's episode, but on many previous episodes of the huberman Lab podcast, we discuss supplements. While supplements aren't necessary for everybody, many people derive tremendous benefit from them for things like improving their sleep, their focus and hormone support. The Huberman Lab podcast is proud to have partnered with Momentous supplements. If you'd like to see the supplements discussed on the huberman Lab podcast, please go to live Momentus spelled O U s. So that's live momentus.com/huberman.

0 (3h 12m 10s):
If you're not already following the huberman Lab podcast on social media, we are huberman Lab on LinkedIn, Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram. And on all those accounts, I include information, some of which overlaps with content to the huberman Lab podcast, but often, which is distinct from information covered on the huberman Lab podcast. So again, it's Huberman Lab on all social media platforms. If you haven't already subscribed to our newsletter, we have a zero cost monthly newsletter. It's called the Neural Network Newsletter, and it includes podcast summaries and toolkits where protocols for things like enhancing sleep, for exercise, for meditation, for dopamine, for focus, and many other topics. To sign up, you simply go to huberman lab.com, go to the menu and click on newsletter and provide your email.

0 (3h 12m 54s):
And I want to be clear that not only is the Neural Network Newsletter zero cost, we also do not share your email with anybody. Once again, I'd like to thank you for joining me for today's discussion about olfaction and chemo sensation with Dr. Nom Sobel. And last but certainly not least, thank you for your interest in science.