0 (0s):
Welcome to the Huberman lab podcast. We discuss science and science-based tools for everyday life. I'm Andrew Huberman, and I'm a professor of neurobiology and ophthalmology at Stanford school of medicine. Today. My guest is Dr. Rhonda Patrick, Dr. Patrick is known to some of you as a podcaster, and one of the premier educators in the landscape of mitochondria metabolism, stress, and other aspects of brain and body health, her podcast found my fitness is one of the premier podcasts in the world for disseminating knowledge about how the brain and body work and how we can use behavioral tools, micronutrients, supplements, and other protocols in order to maximize our immediate and longterm health.

0 (46s):
Dr. Patrick did her formal training in cell biology, exploring the links between mitochondrial metabolism, apoptosis, which is naturally occurring cell death, which is a healthy form of cell death that occurs in our brain and body throughout the lifespan and cancer biology. She then went on to do post-doctoral training with Dr. Bruce Ames investigating the effects of micronutrients meeting vitamins and minerals and how they affect metabolism, inflammation, DNA damage, and the aging process. She has published landmark review articles and primary research, meaning original research articles in some of the premier journals in the world, including science nature, cell biology trends in cell biology and facet.

0 (1m 28s):
Indeed, Dr. Patrick is an expert in an extraordinarily broad range of topics that impact our health. For today's episode, we focus primarily on the major categories of micronutrients that are essential for brain and body health. I have to confess that before the discussion with Dr. Patrick, I was aware of only one of the categories of micronutrients that we discuss. And so you'll notice that I'm wrapped with attention throughout the discussion. And I think that you'll want to have a pen and paper handy because she offers not only a very clear understanding of the biological mechanisms by which other micronutrients operate, but some very clear and actionable tools and items that we can all embark on.

0 (2m 10s):
If we are to optimize our brain and body health, we also discuss behavioral protocols. Dr. Patrick is well known for her understanding of the scientific literature on sauna and the use of heat and cold for optimizing things like metabolism, longevity, cardiovascular health. And I'm delighted to say that we discussed that as well and how behavioral protocols can interface with supplement based and nutritional protocols. I'm confident that you'll learn a tremendous amount of information from Dr. Patrick, much of which is immediately actionable. And if you're not already following and listening to her excellent podcast, you'll absolutely want to do that. It's found my fitness.com is the website where you can get access to that podcast.

0 (2m 51s):
It's also on apple and Spotify and YouTube as found my fitness. Dr. Patrick also has a terrific newsletter that I recommend signing up for. It's found my fitness.com/newsletter is where you'll find it at. It includes research on fasting, micronutrients, sleep, depression, fitness, longevity, and far more along of course, with actionable protocols.

Momentous (3m 13s):
I'm pleased to announce that the Huber lab podcast is now partnered with momentous supplements. Our motivation for partnering with Momentus is to provide people one location where they can go to access the highest quality supplements in the specific dosages that are best supported by the scientific research. And that are discussed during various episodes of the Berman lab podcast. If you go to live momentous.com/huberman, you will see those formulations. I should mention that we are going to add more formulations in the months to come, and you will see a specific suggestions about how best to take those supplements, meaning what dosages and times of day. And in fact, how to combine those supplements with specific behavioral protocols that have been discussed on the podcast and our science supported in order to derive the maximum benefit from those supplements. And many of you will probably also be pleased to learn that momentous ships, not just within the United States, but also internationally. So once again, if you go to live momentous.com/huberman, you will find what we firmly believe to be the best quality supplements in the precise dosages and the best protocols for taking those supplements. Along with the ideal behavioral protocols to combine with those supplement formulations,

0 (4m 28s):
I'm pleased to announce that I'm hosting two live events. This may, the first live event will be hosted in Seattle, Washington on May 17th. The second live event will be hosted in Portland, Oregon on May 18th, both are part of a lecture series entitled the brain body contract during which I will discuss science and science-based tools for mental health, physical health and performance. And I should point out that while some of the material I'll cover will overlap with information covered here on the Huberman lab podcast and on various social media posts. Most of the information I will cover is going to be distinct from information covered on the podcast or elsewhere. So once again, it's Seattle on May 17th, Portland on May 18th, you can access tickets by going to Huberman lab.com/tour.

0 (5m 12s):
And I hope to see you there before we begin. I'd like to emphasize that this podcast is separate from my teaching and research roles at Stanford. It is however, part of my desire and effort to bring zero cost to consumer information about science and science related tools to the general public in keeping with that theme, I'd like to thank the sponsors of today's podcast.

AG1 (5m 30s):
Our first sponsor is athletic greens. Athletic greens is an all-in-one vitamin mineral probiotic drink. I've been taking athletic greens since 2012. So I'm delighted that they're sponsoring the podcast. The reason I started taking athletic greens and the reason I still take athletic greens once or twice a day, is that it helps me cover all of my basic nutritional needs. It makes up for any deficiencies that I might have. In addition, it has probiotics which are vital for microbiome health. I've done a couple of episodes now on the so-called gut microbiome and the ways in which the microbiome interacts with your immune system, with your brain to regulate mood and essentially with every biological system relevant to health throughout your brain and body with athletic greens, I get the vitamins. I need the minerals I need and the probiotics to support my microbiome. If you'd like to try athletic greens, you can go to athletic greens.com/huberman and claim a special offer. They'll give you five free travel packs, which make it easy to mix up athletic greens while you're on the road. Plus a year supply of vitamin D three K two, there are ton of data. Now showing that vitamin D three is essential for various aspects of our brain and body health. Even if we're getting a lot of sunshine, many of us are still deficient in vitamin D three, and K2 is also important because it regulates things like cardiovascular function, calcium in the body. And so on. Again, go to athleticgreens.com/huberman to claim the special offer of the five free travel packs and the year supply of vitamin D three K2

Thesis (6m 53s):
today's episode is also brought to us by thesis. Thesis makes what are called nootropics, which means smart drugs. Now, to be honest, I am not a fan of the term nootropics. I don't believe in smart drugs in the sense that I don't believe that there's any one substance or collection of substances that can make us smarter. I do believe based on science, however, that there are particular neural circuits and brain functions that allow us to be more focused, more alert, access, creativity, be more motivated, et cetera. That's just the way that the brain works different neural circuits for different brain states. And so the idea of a new Tropic that's just going to make us smarter all around fails to acknowledge that smarter is many things, right? If you're an artist, you're a musician, you're doing math, you're doing accounting a different part of the day. You need to be creative. These are all different brain processes. Thesis understands this. And as far as I know that the first nootropics company to create targeted nootropics for specific outcomes, they only use the highest quality ingredients, which of course is essential. Some of those I've talked about on the podcast, things like DHA, Gingko, biloba, phosphatidyl searing. They give you the ability to try several different blends over the course of a month, discover which nootropics work best for your unique brain chemistry and genetics and goals. And with that personalization design, a kit of nootropics that's ideal for the different brain and body states. You want to access. I've been using thesis for more than six months now, and I can confidently say that their nootropics have been a total game changer. My go-to formula is the clarity formula, or sometimes I'll use their energy formula before training to get your own personalized nootropic starter kit go online to take thesis.com/huberman, take a three-minute quiz and thesis. We'll send you four different formulas to try in your first month. That's take thesis.com/huberman and use the code Huberman at checkout for 10% off. Your first order

Inside Tracker (8m 37s):
today's episode is also brought to us by inside tracker. Inside is a personalized nutrition platform that analyzes data from your blood and DNA to help you better understand your body and help you reach your health goals. I've long been a believer in getting regular blood work done for the simple reason that many of the factors that impact your immediate and health can only be assessed with a quality blood test. What's unique about inside tracker is that while there are a lot of different tests out there for hormones and metabolic factors, et cetera, with inside tracker, you get the numbers back in terms of your levels, but they also give you very clear directives in terms of lifestyle, nutrition, and supplementation that can help you bring those values into the ranges that are best for you and your health goals. And that's very different than a lot of the other programs where you get a lot of information. We don't really know what to do with that information inside tracker makes that all very easy to understand and very actionable based on the very easy to use dashboard inside tracker. If you'd like to try inside tracker, you can visit inside tracker.com/huberman to get 20% off any of inside trackers plans. Just use the code Huberman at checkout.

0 (9m 39s):
And now for my discussion with Dr. Rhonda Patrick, Rhonda, welcome. There's been a long time coming even longer than, you know, because even before we discussed you coming on this podcast as a guest, I've been watching your content for a very long time. So I want to start off by saying thank you. You were the spearhead to break through from academic science to public education. So I consider you first in and the rest of us are just in your wake. So thank you for that. That's been,

2 (10m 9s):
Oh, that is so kind. Thank you. Thank you so much. Well,

0 (10m 11s):
It's absolutely

2 (10m 12s):
True. I'm so excited to be here having a conversation with you. Thank

0 (10m 15s):
You. Well, it's absolutely true. If anyone does their research, they will realize that the statement I just made is absolutely true. And there isn't even a close second, you know, any other public facing educators that have formal science training and do regular posting. Your content came in several years after you initiated it. So we're all grateful. I have so many questions, but I want to start off with a, kind of a, a new but old theme that you're very familiar with. So temperature is a powerful stimulus, as we know for biology, and you've covered a lot of material related to the utility of cold, but also the utility of heat.

0 (10m 58s):
And as I learned more and more from your content and from the various papers, it seems that there's a bit of a conundrum in that cold can stimulate a number of things like increases in metabolism, brown, fat, et cetera, et cetera. Hopefully you'll tell us more about those, but heat seems to be able to do a lot of the same things. And I wonder whether or not the discomfort of cold, deliberate, cold exposure and the discomfort of heat might be anchoring to the same pathway. So would you mind sharing with us a little bit about what happens when we get into a cold environment on purpose and what happens when we get into a hot environment on purpose? And I'm hoping that this might eventually lead us to some point of convergent understanding.

0 (11m 43s):
So if you would,

2 (11m 45s):
I would love to, let's take a step back. And I think you brought up a really important point here. And I think that point has to do with the intermittent challenging of yourself and whether that is through, you know, temperature changes like cold or heat or through other types of stressors, like physical activity, or perhaps even dietary compounds that are found in plants. These are things like polyphenols or flavanols humans were, you know, we evolve to intermittently challenge ourselves. And before we had Instacart where you could basically just get your food delivered to you before the industrial revolution, you know, occurred, we were out hunting.

2 (12m 28s):
And I say, we, not us, but humans, we were out, you know, gathering. We were moving and we had to be physically fit. You couldn't catch your prey. If you were a sedentary slob, right. You were moving and you had to like, you know, pick your berries. You had to move. And so physical activity was a part of everyday life and caloric restriction or intermittent fasting was also a part of it. This is another type of, of challenge. You know, we, we didn't always, you know, have a pray that we caught or maybe temperatures were such that, you know, there was nothing for us to gather, right? So food scarcity was something common as well as eating plants. So getting these compounds that I mentioned, so this is these, these are all types of stress, intermittent challenges that activate genetic pathways in our bodies.

2 (13m 16s):
These are often referred to in science as stress response pathways, because they respond to a little bit of stress. You know, physical activity is strenuous. Fasting is a little bit stressful, heat cold. These things are all types of little intermittent challenges. And there is a lot of crosstalk between these stressors and the genetic pathways that they activate. And these genetic pathways that are activated help you deal with stress and, and, and they do it in a way that is not only beneficial to help you deal with that little stressor exercise or heat it's, it stays active. And it helps you deal with the stress of normal metabolism, normal immune function happening just life aging, right?

2 (13m 59s):
So this concept is referred to as hormesis, right? This is a, a little bit of stressful challenge that activates the stress response pathways in a beneficial way. That is a net positive that actually, you know, is it has a very profound antioxidant anti-inflammatory response or, you know, or whatever the response is. It could be the production of more stem cells. These are cells that help regenerate different cells within tissues or something like a top McGee, which is a process that can clear away all the gunk inside of her cells, pieces of DNA, protein aggregates. So you'll find that the stress response pathways are activated like by a variety of stressors. So for example, one pathway is called heat shock proteins, and as their name would apply, one would go, oh, they're activated by heat will correct.

2 (14m 45s):
They are activated very robustly by heat. And we can talk about that, but, you know, you can eat a plant like broccoli sprouts, which is high in something called sulfur faint. This is a, a compound that is sort of like a hormetic compound. Whereas Davidson David likes to say, it would say Xeno, hormetic compound. I love that. I love that term. And it activates each shock proteins among other things. It also activates a very powerful detoxification pathway called NRF two, which helps you detoxify things like carcinogens that you're exposed to, well, guess what heat activates that? So what I'm getting at is there is overlap like cold also activates each shock proteins. You're like really cold. Yes. It activates, these are stress response pathways, and they are activated by various types of stressors.

2 (15m 31s):
Now, you know, you're going to more robustly activate heat shock proteins from heat versus cold, but there is some overlap. So I think that sort of forms a foundation there.

0 (15m 43s):
Yeah, that's very helpful. And, you know, it brings to mind in the context of the nervous system, I was sill be, well, you know, you only have a small kit of neurochemicals to work with there isn't dopamine for Netflix and then dopamine for relationship and dopamine for work, et cetera. Their dopamine is a generic pathway by which motivation craving and pursuit emerge, et cetera, at just like adrenaline is a, a generic theme of many different behaviors. And I, it seems that it is the job of biological systems to be able to take a diverse range of inputs, even unknown inputs. Like we don't know what technology will look like in three years, but you can bet that some of those novel technologies will tap into the very systems that I'm talking about now.

0 (16m 25s):
And there certainly will be other stressors to come about. That will tap into these pathways. I have two questions relate to what you just said before we talk a little bit more about cold and heat. It, you mentioned plants as a route to, to creating intermittent challenge. There's a lot of debate, mostly online about whether or not plants are friends or plants are trying to kill us. The extreme version from the carnivores types, pure carnivore diet types is that plants are trying to kill us from the plant based diet folks. It seems like it's more about what's healthy for the planet animals and maybe for us. But if we set aside that argument and we just raised the hypothesis that plants have compounds that are bad for us, but maybe by consuming them in small amounts, they're creating this wormy cyst type scenario.

0 (17m 16s):
So then I think we conceivably solve the problem. We could say, yes, plants are bad for us, but in small amounts, they provide this hormetic response and they're good for us, right? So in the same way that he does too much heat is bad for us too much. Cold is bad for us can kill us, can kill neurons, but appropriately dosed in an intermittent challenge type of scenarios can be good for us. Is that how I should think about plants and these compounds? Do you think of them as good for us or as bad for us? They're a very sharp blade and we want to use them potently.

2 (17m 48s):
I, I think that it's impossible. It's impossible. I mean, you'd have to eat nothing but the same plant all day, every day in LA, I mean the bioavailability of these, these compounds in the plants, they are attached to a food matrix. You know, it's, it's not like taking it in a supplement form as well. It's, it's such that like, it's, it's very difficult to make it toxic. Now there are some cases, for example, if you eat cabbage and I think there's some group in Africa or somewhere that like, that's all they eat is cabbage and there is a gray trudgin in cabbage. It's not sulforaphane, it's another compound, but that's all they eat every day.

2 (18m 29s):
Nothing but that. And they

0 (18m 30s):
Get,

2 (18m 31s):
Yeah. And they're like iodine deficient on top of that. So, you know, I do think there's there. You can, of course make, I mean, there are types of plants that are toxic in small quantities, right? I mean, it can lock exactly. So,

0 (18m 44s):
So don't play this game with them,

2 (18m 47s):
But you're not going to get poisoned from eating, you know, you're, you're, you're serving of broccoli at dinner, right. So, I mean, it depends on the plant. It's it's, I don't, these generalizations are kind of, they're just not useful. And I think that a lot of people online in the blogosphere, it, they gravitate towards them because it's easier and it's a lot more sensational

0 (19m 11s):
Plants, meat, and starches. I'm one of those rare omnivores out there. Now, I feel like I'm a rare, or it's rare to be an omnivore, but I think once you step out of the social medias, as you said, the blogosphere that most people, I would say 99% of people on the planet and are probably omnivores and someone will probably correct me, but I doubt the number falls below 90, 98.

2 (19m 33s):
I think if you look at data, you know, and, and when we have carnival data by like, I can't wait to see it, but like right now, it's a lot of, okay, well, this is a lot of anecdotal evidence and there's, you know, there's a good, there's a lot of good starts with anecdote, but like people change a thousand things at once and they don't realize that, but they do. And so anecdotal data is only so good, right? It's, it's a, it's a starting point. And so we don't really know long-term what carnivore diets are going to do. You know, they may be beneficial short-term they may, you know, be beneficial for reasons of elimination of other things, like who knows, right. Lots of possibilities. But I do think with respect to plants, you know, that there's, that there's so much evidence, like, for example, sulfur Fein is one that I really like because there's just evidence that, so for Fein is a very powerful activator of the NRF two pathway.

2 (20m 29s):
And this is a pathway that regulates a lot of genes and a lot of genes that are related to like glutathione production genes that are involved in detoxifying compounds that we're exposed to from our food. Like heterocyclic amines. In fact, there've been Gul studies. So these are genetically, these are studies that are genome associated studies for people listening, that aren't familiar. People have a variety of versions of genes, and we have a gene that's able to make heterocyclic amines to basically D detoxify it. So it's not as harmful. And, and people that don't have a certain version of that that's doing it well are very prone to like colon cancer and increased cancer risk.

2 (21m 13s):
But if they eat a lot of broccoli and cruciferous vegetables that negates that risk because they're getting so for a Fein, which activates a lot of the glutathione transfer, glutathione transferees and synthase gene. So glutathione is a major antioxidant in our brain and in our, in our vascular system and our body basically. So, you know, there's, there's evidence that, that, that eating things like, you know, compounds that are like sulforaphane or broccoli or block broccoli sprouts, which have like a hundred up to 100 times more sulforaphane than broccoli are activating glutathione in the brain. There's human evidence of that. I mean, that's amazing.

0 (21m 51s):
Yeah. Sorry to in trouble. I just want to make sure when, so broccoli sprouts are different than broccoli, and you just told us that they have much, they're much richer in these, these compounds. So note to self, I should have broccoli sprouts, not just broccoli. Can we cook the broccoli and still get these nutrients? Or do we have to get raw? I confess eating raw broccoli is really a verse of, to me.

2 (22m 13s):
So then the sulfur Fein is formed from a compound called gluco Raffin, which is in the broccoli. And the enzyme that converted into sulforaphane is my Ross' NASE and it's heat sensitive. So you do somewhat lower the sulforaphane levels when you, when you cook the broccoli. However, there was a study a few years back that showed adding one gram of mustard, seed powder, ground mustard, seed powder, which also contains the myrosinase enzyme to your cooked broccoli increases the sulforaphane by fourfold.

0 (22m 47s):
So, so th this is great, cause I confess, I like broccoli if it's cooked to the appropriate density, not too mushy, but definitely not raw. The idea of eating raw broccoli to me just sounds horrible, but I like the way mustard seeds sounds. So just a little bit of mustard, seed powder added to the cooked broccoli can recover some of these compounds.

2 (23m 7s):
So what I do is I will, you know, lightly steam my broccoli, and then I add a little bit of my Kerrygold butter. And then I add some mustard seed powder on the top of that. And it's kind of a little, little kick. Like it's just a little spice, you know, and if you don't case that it's expired, like it should have a little cake.

0 (23m 26s):
And because I know people will want to know how often and how much, you know, are you eating this every day or most days of the week?

2 (23m 33s):
Well, I had shifted to supplementation with sulfur Fein. I've I admitted I'm admitting right now that I've been terrible about it the past, like, I don't know, six months or so

0 (23m 45s):
Supplementation or the report of the broccoli.

2 (23m 47s):
Yes. The supplementation. And, and so there's another way to get there's another compound and it's actually called Maringa and Dr. Jed Fe, he who's really the expert on sulfur Fein. He's a good friend of mine. He's been on the podcast a couple of times. He, he, he basically thinks, and, you know, has done a lot of research on moringa as well. That it's a, it's like a cousin and it activates the NRF two pathway similarly to sulfur Fein. And so I've been buying this Cooley Cooley Maringa powder. I don't have any affiliation with them

0 (24m 22s):
Truly as a brand Cooley

2 (24m 22s):
Cooley is the brand. I have no affiliation, but Jed, Fay, he has researched it like, like that specific brand. And so it's like legitimate, it's legit, you know, it's like science back in terms of actually containing Maringa and activating NRF two. And I add it to my smoothies. So that's what I've been doing.

0 (24m 41s):
What, what are some appropriate dose ranges? So of course we give the usual recommendations that people should talk to their physician, et cetera, et cetera. But if people are going to, what do you take? That's always the, let's take that. Let's say the David St. Clarion approach where he'll talk about what he does as a way to, to deal with this. And of course everybody's different and should in all seriousness should, anytime you add or delete something from your consumption should consult some trusted healthcare, professional trusted by you. What do you recall? The, the dosages, I do a

2 (25m 15s):
Big heaping tablespoon.

0 (25m 17s):
So Maringa truly Maringa it sounds like a song

2 (25m 20s):
It's with a K. I know, but you know, for people also listening, it's like, well, why would I do that? You know, I mentioned the glutathione in the brain. I mentioned it in plasma. It's, it's been shown to lower DNA damage in people and in white blood cells, it's also been shown. There's been several different studies in China, you know, in China, there's a lot of air pollution. And I mentioned that, you know, it's a very powerful activator, NRF two, and I know you're familiar with NRF two, but NRF two is like a transcription factor. That is, it is, it is binding to a little specific sequence in a variety of different genes. And it's like turning them on. Or in some cases, turning them off, it's regulating, what's being activated, or what's not being activated, being turned off.

2 (26m 1s):
And some of the genes are, are basically these, these detoxifying pathways. We talked a little bit about the glutathione, but there's also ones that are involved in air airborne, carcinogens like benzine. So benzene is found in air pollution. I mean, cigarette smoke. If you're, if you're smoking cigarettes still like, please try to quit.

0 (26m 21s):
I mean,

2 (26m 21s):
Yeah,

0 (26m 21s):
It's nothing of the lung cancer. You're mutating your DNA

2 (26m 24s):
And heart disease, risk, heart disease risk. But anyways, people, and this has been repeated and, and more than one study that literally after 24 hours of taking, I can't remember off the top of my head, what the dose of sulforaphane from broccoli extract Brock broccoli seed extract was, or broccoli sprouts extract, not the seed. It was the sprouts. Anyways. They started excluding like 60% benzene. And acrolein, I mean, that's something that we get in cooked

0 (26m 51s):
Foods coming out in their urine, coming

2 (26m 53s):
Out in their urine. Yeah.

0 (26m 54s):
Well, I'm not a smoker and I have to be honest. It's rare that I hear of a supplement for the first time. Cause I've been, you know, deep diving on supplements since I was in my teens. This is fascinating. And it brings me back to this question that we had before. And I, I, I appreciate that you answered it very clearly. Plants have compounds that are good for us. They're not just stressing us. They're activating pathways that are repairative, that's what, that's what I'm taking away from everything you're telling me.

2 (27m 21s):
Right. And, and, and that our bodies were supposed to be getting that stress to have those pathways activated. Like it is like, you know, right. I mean, this is conserved among different animals. Like this is, this is, this is something that is, is it's supposed to happen. And in our modern day world, we don't have to eat plants. We don't have to move anywhere or exercise. We don't have to go through periods of not eating food because we can have it at our fingertips at any second. Right. So, I mean, we've got this conundrum of, we're never activating these stress response pathways that we're, that we're supposed to activate.

2 (28m 1s):
We're supposed to,

0 (28m 2s):
I find that fascinating and again, drawing a parallel to the nervous system. So what I'm hearing you say is that historically we would have to go through some stress, some confront Colcord front heat or confront effort or, or hunger in half to exercise, essentially in order to obtain these compounds. And then those compounds are repairative. I, I feel that resembles the dopamine pathway. I always say, you know, there's nothing wrong with dopamine. People think about dopamine hits as bad or dopamine is bad. There's absolutely nothing wrong with dopamine. The problem is dopamine, especially high levels of dopamine released without the need for effort to access that dopamine is problematic.

0 (28m 43s):
So a line of cocaine gives you a ton of dopamine with no effort except to ingest the drug, whereas working for four years or more to get your degree will release a lot of dopamine and a lot of cortisol along the way, as we know, and it's considered a healthy accomplishment in most cases, a tremendous amount of you we're approaching the spring. And there'll be a lot of graduations. Weddings are coming up now that the pandemic is kind of hopefully slowing and there'll be a lot of dopamine. High levels of dopamine are great, but only after the effort of having done something in order to access it. And so that's what I'm taking away from what you're saying is that we need to go through this intermittent, the different types of intermittent challenge. And we can re we are rewarded with particular compounds that are, repairative both for the challenge, but then it make us stronger.

0 (29m 30s):
It is hormesis really is. It seems a case of what doesn't kill us, makes us stronger. What, so you mentioned,

2 (29m 36s):
Can I add to that one? You just said, because please, because this has been shown with, for example, sulforaphane animal studies, you precondition give the animal sulfur Fein, and then you expose them to like, you know, hypoxia or some sort of be ischemic, stroke condition, whatever they do to induce that. And the sulfur Fein, it basically protects that like their precondition and their, their re their stress response pathways are primed. And so when they're then exposed to the ischemic stroke, they, their outcomes are so much better, so much better than the animals that didn't get the sulforaphane 48 hours before, whatever it was, you know, and, and this is like, this has been shown in multiple animal studies with sulforaphane specifically in the brain.

2 (30m 16s):
I know mark Mattson, Dr. Mark Madsen. He's a lot often thought of as the intermittent fasting king, but, you know, he's a neuro neuroscientist and he, he did publish some work and talks about sulforaphane as well.

0 (30m 28s):
I'm really glad you brought that up. That example up, because many of the questions I get on social media and elsewhere are about traumatic brain injury and TBI in, you know, is just one example. And people always think, oh, sports it's football. Whenever you say TBI, people always think football. And I just wanted just take a moment, a moment to editorialize 90% or more of traumatic brain injury is construction work at home accidents, but football players are hockey. Players are martial. Artists are a tiny fraction of the people who have TBI and concussion of various kinds. It just so happens that within those communities, many of them, 75% or more experienced those.

0 (31m 8s):
So it's salient within those communities. But passion is, is prominent. People are always asking, what can I do in order to offset brain injury? I had a concussion two years ago. What can I do? And it's been, it's been a tough question because we really don't have anything for them. I mean, you tell them sleep well, eat well exercise, but it sounds like some of these repairative pathways either should be explored in the context of brain injury, or I'm guessing are being explored in the context of brain injury.

2 (31m 36s):
Yeah. So a couple of things there. One is that, I mean, traumatic brain injury. I mean, it's terrible, but it's also, it's so interesting because it's also like literal time brain aging, like, you know, like it's, you're able to like accelerate it and understand. So I, I often think of when I think of traumatic brain injury, I think of so much overlap between Alzheimer's disease and dementia and these neurodegenerative diseases, because there is, there are, there are a lot of similarities that there, you know, and so, so for a faint, I personally think, and I do think there's been some animal research with TBI. I mean, and, and so for a Fein, mostly preconditioning rather than treatment.

2 (32m 18s):
So again, it's like, well, I mean, if you're gonna, if you want a healthy lifestyle thing and you're a construction worker, or you're filling the blank, that's, you know, gonna, I mean, anyone that drives into a car, I mean, you're at risk to some degree, right. Or

0 (32m 28s):
Bicycle,

2 (32m 29s):
Bicycle. Yeah.

0 (32m 30s):
Around Stanford. We have, you know, I would say people, demonize motorcycles, people demonize a lot of things, but moving fast through space on a small object next to a 3000 pound vehicle, and we've lost, we have a number of friends have died. We have known people with traumatic brain injury. I'm not against cycling or cyclists, but it, it is, it's a risky sport by any stretch. So in taking things like meringa or an eating my broccoli sprouts, maybe cooking them a little less than I'm currently cooking them, putting on the, the mustard seed. Is there evidence that w well, first of all, NRF two is expressed in neurons, right? So those, those cells should be protected.

0 (33m 11s):
Are there other cells of the body that could possibly gain protection from these paths?

2 (33m 16s):
Well, lungs for one, but, you know, just even in plasma cells, I mean, I think it's pretty NRF. Two is pretty ubiquitously expressed liver. So there's, I mean, there's, there's so many animal studies that have looked at all those things. I try to kind of gravitate towards human ones, cause it's a little, little, a lot more relevant, but, but I think, you know, overall, like I mentioned, you know, DNA damage lower, it was like 24, 24 or 34% lower in human blood cells after broccoli, broccoli, sprout powder supplementation. Wow. And, and I made a video on this, like years ago, 2016, maybe. And I think I have like the references on there to exact amounts.

2 (33m 56s):
I can't remember,

0 (33m 57s):
But

2 (33m 58s):
It was kind of an old videos to the 2016, but I also had jet on the podcast and he, he did talk about this, but you know, it's also been shown in randomized controlled trials to help treat autism and autistic symptoms. And yet again, it's doing interesting things in the brain. And I think it's, I think it does have something to do with the oxidative stress and the glutathione, which would be relevant for TBI treatment. And it hasn't been shown empirically that that helps with treatment. But I do think someone could do that study. I think that it's, it should be done, honestly, because it's a low hanging fruit. I mean, if there is any impact and there is at least one preliminary study that glutathione is increased in the brain after humans are, you know, basically taking sulforaphane.

2 (34m 43s):
So

0 (34m 44s):
Really a for people listening, that's so important because a number of compounds that people take in supplement form don't cross the blood-brain barrier, or they get metabolized in ways that what's listed on the bottle almost becomes irrelevant for what your cells actually experience. So that's very reassuring. We will get back to heat and cold in this theme that I tried to surface, but I just find this too interesting to, to diverge at this point from, from these themes. So what other compounds or micronutrients do you place in the top tier of useful? Interesting. There are animal studies maybe there, hopefully also some human studies. We've talked about a few. I know you've talked a lot about omega-3 fatty acids.

0 (35m 25s):
So if you had to do your kind of top three, your, your superstars of nutrients for the brain and body, it sounds like we've got one, one set. What would you put in alongside them?

2 (35m 37s):
Omega-3 the Marine omega-3 fatty acids. So these are found in Marine types of, you know, animals, fish, cold water, fish, fatty fish. So, so there's, there's three fatty acids. There's one from a plant and, and that's often referred to as ALA people call it short alpha-linolenic acid, and then there's co eicosapentaenoic acid or EPA and docosahexaenoic acid, which is DHA. Yeah.

0 (36m 3s):
As you can pronounce two of the most difficult words to pronounce right next to it. Oh. And spell and right next to ophthalmology, which if you can spell it, I know people who have appointments in ophthalmology departments that don't know how to spell off the <inaudible> a little secret. There's a, there's an extra P in there. So the ALA, the I'm not going to attempt to pronounce it because your pronunciation was perfect. Both of these two compounds and you sit her in Marine sources. So fish, so sardines, Cod, this sort of thing, but what about krill? I've seen krill oil and there was a few years back. People were saying, krill is a better source for omega threes. Then is fish oil. I took some krill oil capsules made me itch all over.

0 (36m 46s):
So I stopped.

2 (36m 47s):
I have a shellfish allergy.

0 (36m 48s):
No, I don't think so. I don't think so. I'm not a big fan of shellfish, but I like, you know, I've voiced her is every now and again, or shrimp or something and feel fine. So

2 (36m 56s):
Yeah, we can talk about sources. So krill is a, a source, mostly of a type of DHA and EPA that's in phospho, lipo, lipid form. So it's a, phosphatidylcholine, omega-3 fatty acid and that's different than most, most of the, well, if we're talking about fish oil supplements, that's a different story. But if you're talking about comparing fish to CRA eating krill, like we're talking about, are we talking about the supplements? Yeah.

0 (37m 25s):
Yes. I apologize. Yeah. Krill supplement versus fish oil, fish oil supplement. And if you, if it fits in the conversation, talking about great sources of, of omega-threes in their whole form, I I've, I've a bad feeling. You're going to tell me sardines.

2 (37m 42s):
Yeah. They're, they're awesome. Except for,

0 (37m 44s):
Except for the taste

2 (37m 46s):
And, and for the potential contaminants, mercury, I think was one, no, show us. Yeah, it was mercury. And Joe was telling me about like, he used to eat sardines. Joe Rogan was telling me that he used to eat sardines every day. And, and then he had like really high mercury levels. And I was really shocked because sardines are like, you know, low in the fish, you know, groups. So there, the, the higher up you get like sword, fish and sharks, like really high mercury, cause they're eating all the other fish. Right. But I think some brands, and if you look at like consumer lab, consumer lab, there's, it's like a third-party site that I'm not affiliated with, but I use them because they do a lot of analysis of different foods and supplements.

2 (38m 30s):
And so you can look at like some of their sardines and they've like, they have a list of like ones that are pretty decent. But anyways, back to your question about fish oil supplements versus krill oil supplements. So the one of the major differences is that fish oil supplements. If you get a high quality one, it's in a triglyceride form. So you're, you've got like a, a glycerol backbone with three fatty acids and, and that's attached. And those are either DHA or the EPA. And or if you have a lower quality fish oil supplement, then you have what's called F FLS stir form. And typically the reason for that is it's when fish oil is purified, it's run through this column with alcohol or something, they cleave it off the glycerol backbone.

2 (39m 16s):
And then it's just kind of easier to leave it like that. Then like, restratifying it, which costs more money. So you can get it an FLS molester form, which isn't as bioavailable. And in fact, if you don't take it with food, you're going to be in trouble. You're not going to absorb much of it at all.

0 (39m 32s):
Would you see this on the packaging? Is it going to say it's in this Ethel Ethel form,

2 (39m 36s):
Some official Browns, we'll put it on their website perhaps on their packaging, but you, most of the time you'll have to dig for it on the website and or call them. But I think for the most part ones that are like higher end we'll we'll market, it like triglyceride form. And it's not that epolesters bad. It just means take it with food. So, so, so then one of the major prescription omega-threes out there is both of them actually Lovaza, which is a mixture of DHA and EPA, as well as the SEPA, which is a highly purified EPA. These are both prescribed by physicians, to patients with hypertriglyceridemia. So high triglycerides among other things, I think maybe dysregulation of lipids as well.

0 (40m 19s):
This is amazing for people. So these are prescription drugs that are essentially very high potency purified omega-threes, but they're given to people for lipid issues. So this is the treatment of issues with fat metabolism by giving people fat, just a really, I just want to push home again, I'm not carnivore keto or anything, I'm an omnivore, but, but to just push home that we, one thing that's so wonderful that you've done over the years that you continue to do is to move away from these very broad sweeping statements about, you know, fat is bad. I mean, here's a case where we're saying fat is not only good. It can be used to combat issues with that metabolism. And then there, you know, fats are not just one thing.

0 (41m 1s):
There are many things. So anyway, I just am want to put a little highlighter and an appointee of appreciation there and, and make sure that people are, are sensitized to the fact that if you hear that fat is bad, you have to ask what kind of fat. Right. And here we're talking about these omega-threes okay. So the triglyceride form can be taken with or without food and there's prescription forms. What I can't get, I don't know if I can get ahold of the prescription form, unless you

2 (41m 28s):
Know,

0 (41m 29s):
Where I have a friend with high triglycerides, it's illegal folks. Don't don't share prescription drugs,

2 (41m 33s):
Or you talked to your doctor and you say, I'm already taking this from, I mean, I don't know how it works anyways.

0 (41m 38s):
It's the dosage that you recommend. People get one way or another.

2 (41m 43s):
Okay. So the, the dosage that physicians prescribe for high triglycerides for example, is four grams a day,

0 (41m 50s):
Four grams of EPA

2 (41m 51s):
Of yes. Of the, the SEPA. I think Lovaza is also prescribed at four grams a day. And you can, you can get either of those from your physician. My father-in-law just got one of them prescribing us to use. We were buying our own omega-3 for years and years. It's like, Hey, you can actually get this in health insurance can cover it. And it's really purified form, but you have to take it with food. That was the bottom line. I've totally gone on tangents, but like, you're asking more interesting questions anyways. So,

0 (42m 17s):
Well, normally I ask about mechanism and then I talk about protocols, but in the, or,

2 (42m 21s):
Or the Y

0 (42m 22s):
Or the Y,

2 (42m 22s):
But we haven't gotten there

0 (42m 24s):
Yet, but I think that w we definitely will get there, but I think a number of people nowadays are just really excited about what they can do for their health. And so here we're, we're just raising the importance of omega-threes and then we'll definitely get to the why and the underlying,

2 (42m 37s):
I think four grams is, I mean, and in fact, like, you know, bill Harris, Dr. Bill Harris is he's just one of the pioneers on omega-3 fatty acid research. He was on our podcast, not, you know, last August. And he was saying the reason FDA chose that was literally just because how much they could get people to take, like it, like, it, it wasn't like an upper end, like, oh, this is not anything above that is unsafe. That wasn't the case. I mean, it was, it was, it was just purely like costs and like, like, you know, compliance, you know, so like what they can get into a pill, the amount they can get and how many pills they can get people to take. Yeah.

0 (43m 16s):
I'm smiling because our good friend such in Panda at the Salk Institute, who's done a lot of important work on intermittent fasting and other incredible work on circadian rhythms, et cetera. When I was talking to him in preparation for an episode on intermittent fasting, he, I said, why the eight hour feeding window? And he said, well, the graduate student who ran those studies had a partner. I think it was a girlfriend. As I recall, hope I didn't get that backward. And the partner said, listen, you can be in lab 10 hours a day, but you can't be in lab 14 hours a day if you want this relationship to work. And so it was eight hours of feeding window, plus some measurements and time to walk into the lab, park, the car, et cetera. And so the eight hour feeding window that everyone holds.

0 (43m 57s):
So wholly was actually just born out of this relationship between these two graduate students, you know, had they been single? I was single all through graduate school or most of it anyway, and I lived in the lab. So if it'd been me, we'd all be intermittent. Fasting would mean eating 14 hours a day. That was a joke, not a good one, but just want to make clear I'm joking. But the point that you're making is a really good one that the four, four gram amount is not a threshold based on anything, except the threshold of people's willingness to actually take the stuff. So, and I think that's important for people to hear, because so often we hear the eight hour feeding window, you know, four grams of EPA, you know, 150 minutes of cardio.

0 (44m 38s):
And it's really a question of what you can reasonably do in a study.

2 (44m 41s):
So I take four grams a day. I take two in the morning, two grams in the morning and I take two Rams in the evening. I take my EPA in the morning and I take my DHA in the evening,

0 (44m 50s):
Split them.

2 (44m 51s):
I do. I don't know if I don't think it's necessary, not necessarily I'm I just happened to buy, I happened to get a certain fish oil supplement that's like separates them. And so, you know, like Lovaza Lovaza is a great one and it's all like in one, and it's easier.

0 (45m 6s):
What if someone doesn't have a prescription? So I take over the counter fish oil. I know I feel better cause I've done the experiment of going on and off. I take the mainly for, I don't have depression, but my mood is better. My joints feel better. I just feel better. And I like to think that my platelets are slipperier and, and they're, they're, they're, you know, cruising through any little obstructions in my, my veins or arteries. That's the image I have in my head, but I don't have any data to support that part.

2 (45m 32s):
Yeah. I mean, so if you're, if you're asking for like, where do people get these?

0 (45m 37s):
Well, let's say I look at the bottle and it says two grams per serving, but then I look and it's 750 milligrams of EPA, right? Or a thousand milligrams of EPA, let's say half of it is EPA. Then do I want to hit a threshold of EPA or a threshold of, of what's listed on the bottle right on the, on the front of the bottle. And it, because my understanding is that we need to hit a threshold level of EPA in order to derive these important benefits.

2 (46m 8s):
I think two grams is, is a good threshold. Now the international fish oil standards, I F S O they have a website where they do third-party testing of a ton of different fish oil supplements from around the world. And they measure the concentration of the omega-3 fatty acids in the actual supplement, because nothing is ever what it says on the bottle. And then they also measure, measure contaminants. So mercury PCBs docks, and things that you'd find potentially in fish that were harmful to humans. And they also measure mercury and then oxidized fatty acids. So these omega-3 fatty acids are polyunsaturated fatty acids, which are extremely prone to oxidation.

2 (46m 54s):
So please keep your fish oil in refrigerator because it's colder. Yeah. They're extremely

0 (46m 60s):
In the cupboard. So now I know

2 (47m 1s):
That th the, the shelf life's, you know, increased lower oxidation,

0 (47m 6s):
Right?

2 (47m 7s):
Yeah. So anyways, they measure that. And I typically like to look for, they give you a total oxidation number. It's called Toto T O T O X <inaudible> is what we call it for short. And I like it to be at the least under 10, ideally under six. It's really hard to find all the right mixtures of things, but people can go to this website and they can browse through the products. I have put together an Excel sheet, which I have a, a YouTube little screencast that I'm yet to publish, press the publish button on, but it basically, you have to go back and check and update. Cause these are from different lot numbers. You know, the products they do have up to like 20, 27 or something.

2 (47m 49s):
And so I've gone through and found my top picks of E high EPA brands and high DHA brands. If I were to buy some, the ones that I would choose because of the low total oxidation and the high concentration of either EPA DHA. Now people can go and do this themselves. It just takes some work.

0 (48m 6s):
No, I'm glad that you did the work. I I'm going to put up a tweet every week with you tagged until this list is published online. Sorry, Rhonda, but I'm going to do it. I know it's very sadistic of me, but in service to the community

2 (48m 21s):
And I, and I chose five brands from region, I try to choose, I tried to find one in like Europe and one in Canada. So there was like a great selection of,

0 (48m 27s):
Thank you. You were doing that work. I don't want to do that work. And I trust you. So yeah, I try and get two grams per day of EPA from supplementation. I'll now put it in the refrigerator. Mood is better. I D made that decision mainly based on the data that I'm aware of, looking at comparison of people doing that anywhere from two to four grams of EPA per day, compared to SSRI, serotonin, selective, serotonin re-uptake inhibitors and treatment of depression. And I don't want to take an SSRI if I don't have to, unfortunately I don't have to, but the data by my Rita remarkable people that take these things in sufficient doses, meaning the EPA is, are able to get by with much lower dosages of accessorize for depression relief or in some cases to come off their SSRI as completely or avoid going on anti depressant medication.

0 (49m 18s):
Now, of course, this is not something people should cowboy, you know, mental health issues are serious, but what other reasons I'd love your thoughts on that, on the mental health part. And so maybe you could tell us what are some things that getting two to four grams of EPA per day is going to help with in our brain and the rest of our body.

2 (49m 36s):
So do you, do you know, so I actually published a paper back in 2015 about the role of omega-3 and vitamin D in depression, bipolar disorder, bipolar disorders, schizophrenia, and impulsive behavior. But so like within that paper, like the doing background research, and this was a review article, by the way, I was just connecting dots. Cause that's,

0 (49m 58s):
I'm going, I'm going to grab that. I confess, I don't know the paper, but I love quality reviews because the references they're in are so useful.

2 (50m 6s):
Well, there's a huge role for inflammation, the cause of inflammation and depression. And, you know, I think we did a short animated video on this as well, like years ago back when it was, you know, publishing that, that work where, you know, people are injected with lipopolysaccharide. I mean, this is something that we're, we're generating from our, from our gut, mostly from, you know, our gut permeability, which happens a lot endotoxin. It's also called it's like it's endotoxin lipopolysaccharide, it's basically the outer membrane of bacterial cells when bacteria die. So like when the immune cells in our gut come into contact with the bacteria, because we drank alcohol five days in a row or whatever we release endotoxin or something stressed us out, we release endotoxin into our body and that causes inflammation.

2 (50m 53s):
And so you can inject people with lipid lipopolysaccharide and cause depressive symptoms. However, if you take those same cohort of people, give them EPA. And I think it was somewhere around two grams and then inject them with lipopolysaccharide we're establishing causation here, right? It totally the depressive symptoms versus the placebo. So the placebo was saline control. So there was, this was a placebo controlled because obviously it's hugely important for depression. It ameliorated the depressive symptoms that was caused by lipopolysaccharide

0 (51m 22s):
He's an LPs lipopolysaccharide is no joke. I, years ago, when I was working on thermal regulation, we would inject animals with LPs to induce fever. It there's a, the vagus nerve registers the presence of LPs signals to these particular hypothalamic areas and cranks up body temperature. Because basically it's a signal that the body is infected. Right. Amazing. So I will continue with my two grams per day. Maybe I'll ramp it up to four. I'm not doing the DHA separately. There is D DHA in the same supplement. Is that okay?

2 (51m 59s):
Yeah. Yeah. And, and, you know, to kind of, we have, we've got a lot of things to hit back on because your, one of your original questions was krill oil versus fish oil and DHA DHA specifically, is it it's, you know, in phospholipid form, it it's more bioavailable. So our bodies, you know, if you're comparing exact quantity or concentration, you know, in triglyceride form versus phospholipid form, you will get more in your plasma cells, in your plasma plasma cell, in your P in your plasma with krill oil, however, krill oil supplements are so low dose.

2 (52m 39s):
Like, I mean, good luck getting two grams of omega-3 from krill oil and also krill oil supplements are notoriously rancid. I don't know for whatever

0 (52m 50s):
Reasons what made me itchy all over.

2 (52m 52s):
I think they're just, I like, I haven't found a good krill oil supplement. I prayed pretty much stay away from it. I mean, if you smell it too, I mean, it's just like, like, it just smells ranted. So, but the thing is, and I also published a paper on this back in 2019 or yeah, something like that about DHA and phospholipid form getting into the brain in, through a different mechanism than DHA in triglyceride form. And so it's going through a transporter called the MFS two-way transporter. And I think it's very relevant for people with an <inaudible>. So I kind of

0 (53m 31s):
With an Alzheimer's susceptible,

2 (53m 32s):
Right? So, so like 25% of the population has an, a Lil and a gene called Bowie four. And basically it is April we, but the four is referred to as the bad kind of version of it. This is something in our blood, our bodies, it's also in our brain. And if people have one of these versions. If they got one from their mom or their dad, they have a two fold increased risk for Alzheimer's disease. If they get two, which is much, it's much more, it's less, it's less common. I think it's like 2% of the population is to me has two wheels, but they have like a 10 or 11 fold increased risk of Alzheimer's disease. So there is a role for phospholipid form DHA and the brain, but you also make phospholipid DHA inside your body.

2 (54m 14s):
And you can do that by taking in more triglyceride form. So two grams like the magic more two grams or more is the magic number. I think so. So kind of back to like the why for fish oil and I, I personally think it is one of the most powerful anti-inflammatory things, dietary lifestyle, things that we can, we can get easily relatively easily. That is it's going to powerfully modulate the way you think, the way you feel and the way you age and a variety of different types of studies kind of led me to that conclusion, a variety of, you know, observational studies.

2 (54m 57s):
So there's been lots of work by Dr. Bill Harris and his collaborators looking at what it's called the omega-3 index. So this is actually the omega-3 level in red blood cells. So red blood cells turnover about every hundred and 20 days. So it's a, it's a long-term marker of omega-3 status. This is very different from 99.9% of any study you see, or any lab that you go to to get your omega-3 levels tested. You're getting your plasma phospholipid levels tested, which is kind of like, you can think of it as what did I eat a couple of days before? Oh, I had fish, my mega three levels are great, but did you eat fish like that every week? Or was it like, you know, it was like you went out to dinner, so it's not a great biomarker for long-term omega-3 status.

2 (55m 44s):
It's kind of like the, you know, fasting blood glucose levels versus the HBA one C, which is like a long-term marker, right. Of your, of your blood glucose level. So the omega-3 index, he's done a variety of studies, observational studies. So for people listening, these are studies that are obviously flawed because they're not establishing causality there. You know, you're looking at people's lifestyles, but in the say in the case of bill Harris, his work he's measuring something. So he's measuring omega-3 index and he's measuring omega-3 index in people, and then looking at their mortality risk, for example, or their cardiovascular disease risk. And what he has found is that most for first of all, standard American diet has omega-3 index of 5%.

2 (56m 30s):
Japan by contrast has an omega-3 index of around 10 to 11% big, big difference there. And they also have about a five-year increased life expectancy compared to people in the us. And

0 (56m 43s):
That's mainly due to their fish intake seafood. So

2 (56m 45s):
What he showed was, I think it's a big part of it. I mean, you can't always say it's the only thing, but what he showed in his data was that in, and I think it was Framingham study where he, he looked at the omega-3 index and people that had a omega-3 index of 4% or lower, so close to what the standard American is a little bit lower. They had a five-year decreased life expectancy compared to people that had an 8% omega-3 index. And so a big difference there, right? Five years, five years, life expectancy. But here's the really interesting thing, Andrew, he also looked at smokers and smokers and their omega-3 levels. And so we stratified it.

2 (57m 26s):
Right. And he found smokers that had no omega-3, we're like the worst of all. I mean, it was like, it was just like worse, right? We all know smoking is bad for us and we'll take, take years off our life expectancy, but smokers that had the high level, like smokers that were taking their fish oil or eating fish or whatever it was, they were doing to get them up to 8%. They had the same life expectancy as non-smokers with the ALO low omega-3 index. Wow. Right. Wow.

0 (57m 52s):
And that's, that's amazing. And it's also amazing to me that people still smoke cigarettes, but I see a lot of people vaping and I, and I'm, and I know a lot of people consume cannabis, right? People has there been any studies of specifically vaping are people smoking marijuana and we'll call all cause mortality and

2 (58m 15s):
Yeah, I haven't seen them.

0 (58m 16s):
They're not motivated enough to come in as research subjects. Okay. That was, that was again, a poor joke. It is hard to study people, marijuana use, unless I'm told by my colleagues that study this stuff, unless you offer people marijuana, in which case they'll do it. But again, they're actually not very good research subjects in all seriousness because they are not very motivated or consistent and they forget their appointments. So that's incredible. And you mentioned that the data on pollution related to the plant compounds earlier, so it's almost like these things are, again, are acting in a repairative way.

2 (58m 53s):
The omega threes are, I mean, they're, they are resolving inflammation. They're like blunting inflammation. They're, they're doing so many different. Like they ha they affect so many different parts of the inflammatory pathway, which is, I think it plays a huge role in, in the way we age, the way our brain ages, the way we feel, our mood, just our joints, all that. And so it's, it's amazing, but it's not, you know,

0 (59m 17s):
I love fish oil. I feel better when I take it. I try to eat some fatty fish a couple times a week. I do want to just touch on food sources for a moment. First of all, are there plants that original mega threes? And second by, I have some friends who are really into meat. And I liked me a lot. My dad's Argentine, but I don't eat very much of it. I try and eat high-quality meats in relatively limited amounts, but I do eat pretty often, but I've been told by these sources of questionable authority that if an animal grazes on really good grasses, for instance, that the meat can contain a lot of omega threes, which in principle makes sense based on this omega-3 index.

0 (1h 0m 2s):
Cause you're telling me that a lot of it, this omega-3 is sequestered into the red blood cells. So if I'm eating high quality grass fed meat and the grasses had omega-threes do the mistakes have omega-threes or no.

2 (1h 0m 15s):
So there was a study published that compared conventional meat. So meat that is that animals are fed, you know, corn or soy or whatever it is,

0 (1h 0m 25s):
Which is terrible, but for animals and people, as far as I can tell, I'm sure I'll get, I'll get some attacks, but that's okay. I won't read those comments. The, the, again, a joke, I read all the comments, but the, it seems to me that these animals would have to get either be taking fish oil or eat plants that are very rich in omega threes in order for the, the meat to actually contain sufficient omega-threes.

2 (1h 0m 51s):
So, so the meat comparing the conventional meat to like the GRA grass fed or pasture raised cows or cattle, there were higher levels of alpha linoleic acid and ALA is that it can be converted into EPA and DHA, but the conversion is very inefficient and very dependent on a variety of factors, including genetics, genetics, a huge, you know, regulator, like some people can do it much better. Others, like you're getting like 5% of conversion to EPA. Estrogen is a major regulator of making that more efficient.

2 (1h 1m 33s):
And it makes sense because pregnancy, when your estrogen just goes through the roof, I mean, these omega-3 fatty acids play a very important role in brain development. So you're, you know, women are supposed to be converting any ALA they can into the longer chain omega-3 fatty acids. Right? So, so estrogen does affect that. But I would say plant sources. So if you're looking for the ALA plant sources would be, you know, walnuts, flax seeds. Those are probably the highest, but if you're, if a person is a vegan or vegetarian, their best bet is to actually get micro algae oil. And you can supplement with micro algae oil because micro algae do, they do make the DHA.

2 (1h 2m 17s):
And so that would a better source for, for people that are, that are vegetarian and vegan rather than doing the flaxseed oil, because that conversion inefficiency, you know, the enzymes that convert ALA into EPA and DHA, again, it's inefficient.

0 (1h 2m 34s):
And then for people that eat fish sardines, you said salmon, and you have to eat the skin. As I understand

2 (1h 2m 42s):
You don't have to, but it's good. The oil. Yeah. And, and the reason I say like, like, I, I think the best would be wild Alaskan salmon versus a farm raise because the farm raise again, they're feeding them, they're feeding them corn, they're feeding them like green and stuff. And then they give them, asked to xanthan. So asked to xanthan is a carotinoids, it's the carotinoids that's in things like krill, crustaceans that make their red pigment.

0 (1h 3m 7s):
That's also being used now as a supplement. And there's a prescription form to try and rescue some age-related vision loss because of the, the role of the vitamin a pathway and photo receptors. Okay.

2 (1h 3m 20s):
Yeah. Well, you know, actually the carotinoids themselves, so like glutenins use Anthem, they're really good at sequestering singlet oxygen, which is some damaging, right?

0 (1h 3m 29s):
As we age the, because the retinal cells, the cells, the IRES, so metabolically active, they accumulate a lot of reactive oxygen species and a mitochondrial repair and eliminating reactive oxygen species is, is a major theme of trying to rescue vision. I think that's a whole other podcast and story. There's some really interesting data now on the use of red light to try and trigger these pathways from Glen G. That's my good friend of many years and amazing scientist, Glenn Jeffrey's lab at university college, London, I'm Dell. We should talk about that at some point. If not today, now they have a second study.

2 (1h 4m 6s):
Yeah.

0 (1h 4m 6s):
It's looking real. I mean, you know, it's, they're, they're cautious. They're, they're appropriately British and cautious about it, you know, I've, I always joke if those studies have been done over here, everyone had already know about it. Glen is a very conservative guy, but they've done this stuff now in, in pigs and rodent models. And now also two studies in humans. It's looking pretty, pretty interesting. So sardines, but also anchovies. I'm an Al I, by the way, I hate all the food items that I'm describing. I can barely tolerate salmon. I don't like fish at all. Actually. I like live fish tanks when I was a kid. I just don't know. I find fish unless it's in sushi form. I find it absolutely repulsive. And I don't know why I probably have some mutation. So

2 (1h 4m 46s):
Raw fish is actually higher in mercury than cooked.

0 (1h 4m 49s):
Okay. Well, that's good. Now. I don't really like sushi that much. Anyway, you're giving me great reasons to not eat fish, but except I should eat these other fish sources or supplement more heavily. That's the message

2 (1h 4m 59s):
I eat my every day. My first meal almost is like I can of sardines and an avocado with like

0 (1h 5m 6s):
Avocados. Good. I

2 (1h 5m 7s):
Love it. Yeah. With a little bit of lemon and then some little hot sauce, like, you know, I've caught him as a very good in mono unsaturated fat. It's not really high in polyunsaturated fat. Omega-3 really, I mean, it's, it's, it's either the DHA and EPA that's in the Marine sources, fish, or it's the plant ALA source, which is like the flax seed or the walnuts. So

0 (1h 5m 30s):
It's rough. I mean, all these companies now are, are making these plant-based products that tastes like meat. My wish is that they would just make a fish that tastes like a steak, but that's okay.

2 (1h 5m 41s):
Fish come out, albino the ones that they farm raised because they don't eat any of the

0 (1h 5m 46s):
I'm joking. I don't want to genetically modify fish that tastes like a stakeholder. You know, I love the taste of sake. The point here is that if you don't, if you, if one doesn't see themselves regularly consuming these fish, these fish sources of omega-threes, it seems to me that the only way to really get them is from supplementation

2 (1h 6m 7s):
And supplementation is a good way to get a high dose. And to get back to your dose point, there was a couple of studies that, that basically, you know, I think there was some, there were some where they showed that people that are in the 4% omega-3 index range in order to get to the 8%, right. The five-year increased life expectancy. If we're comparing the two groups was to supplement with at least two grams, it was about two grams a day. And that, and I think it was a little bit less if it was triglyceride form, but I think two grams is a good, safe number. So most Americans that are not eating a lot of fish and they're not supplementing are probably around a four to 5% omega-3 index and to get to the 8%.

2 (1h 6m 49s):
And I think that's a good empirical way of thinking about it. Right. Okay. Well, I want to get to that 8%, by the way. I'm almost 16% omega-3

0 (1h 6m 58s):
Yeah. I was going to ask about, about testing. So, so where can somebody measure where, and how can somebody measure their omega-3 index? Which again, just to remind people as the, essentially the percentage of omega threes that you have in your blood with the caveat that the omega-3 index will be heavily biased by what you ate in the previous days.

2 (1h 7m 19s):
No. Okay.

0 (1h 7m 21s):
Understood. I thought you said in red blood cells, if I ate salmon two days ago, my omega-3 index is going to go up.

2 (1h 7m 26s):
No, that was plasma.

0 (1h 7m 27s):
I misunderstood.

2 (1h 7m 28s):
So plaid, so most people are measuring. Like if you look at a lot of studies and honestly, Andrew, I think a lot of the reason for conflicting data is because people are measuring plasma. Omega-3 levels that the phospholipids it's in a phospholipid right? So your phospholipids are carrying thing. These are lipoproteins, they're carrying things like omega-3 and triglycerides and stuff and shuttling them around. So the omega-3 index is actually in the red blood cells and red blood cells take 120 days to turn over. So if you're going to do a baseline test, if you want to know before supplementing what your level is, you have to wait 120 days before doing the second test, after supplementing to know how much you went up, because that's how long it takes for your red blood cell to turnover.

2 (1h 8m 12s):
So the omega-3 index I'm bill Harris has a, a company that he co-founded is called OmegaQuant and they measure the omega-3 index. They have a variety of different index tests. You can do like a basic one or a little more advanced with, from

0 (1h 8m 28s):
A blood draw.

2 (1h 8m 29s):
It's a little blood spot thing. Yeah. And you know, like he uses money to like funnel back into doing lipid research. So he's like out there doing all sorts of interesting studies on omega3s is great, but I, the mega three next is great. I think that honestly, more people and more researchers should be using it because the conflicting data, it all, it always comes down to what we're measuring the sensitivity of it, you know, are we even measuring anything? So, you know, you're, you're giving someone 500 milligrams of DHA and you don't see any effect. Well, did you measure what their levels were? And did you measure the Amanda omega-3 index? Do you know, there's all sorts of problems with randomized controlled trials.

2 (1h 9m 9s):
And I think that it just, we need to like, as scientists, we need to come together and like make some progress. I mean, you know, let's all talk to each other. Let's, let's, let's figure things out like this, this test is out there. It should be used. It should be used not just by Bill's group. Like everyone.

0 (1h 9m 26s):
Yeah. Well, and I'm learning so much for me and I agree we need more collaboration. I've always enjoyed really fruitful collaborations in my lab at Stanford. And collaborating is just so much more fun online. There seems to be a bias, more towards creating silos as opposed to bridges. But I appreciate that you bring up the need for more collaboration and knowing which measures are best. And in this case now thank you for the clarification. I understand this omega-3 index is going to be best. You mentioned you see, basically, when now I'm going to look at you. I think you are 16% omega-3

2 (1h 9m 59s):
And dolphins are 19%. I'm almost, is

0 (1h 10m 1s):
That your goal you're trying to get there

2 (1h 10m 3s):
Is

0 (1h 10m 5s):
To do the interesting actually they should probably do something where you're trying to achieve the omega-3 ratio of the, your favorite species. Now that we've covered a bit of how to get these things into one system, depending on what one eats, et cetera, and some of the better measurements w how is omega-3 and some of these other related lipids, how are they having these positive effects in my mind? And this is, this is incredibly elementary, but my understanding is that at some level they're making platelets more slippery. Is that true or not? I hope I'm happy to be wrong. How is it possibly impacting my mood? Is it through the synthesis of membrane on neurons that allows neurons to release more transmitter like serotonin dopamine?

0 (1h 10m 50s):
I mean, what are some of the purported reported and known mechanisms?

2 (1h 10m 55s):
I think some of the most well-known mechanisms do have to do with the, the omega-3 fatty acids being very powerful regulators of the inflammatory process in some way, shape or form, whether that has to do with resolvins that are produced. So these from the metabolites of like DHA, for example, resolvins play a role in resolving inflammation. Like you want your inflammatory response to be activated when it's supposed to be, but you want to resolve that inflammation in that inflammatory response in a timely manner, right. And resolve is help do that. And so resolvins are one. And then there's these specialized pro mediating molecules, the SPMS that also help resolve the inflammation.

2 (1h 11m 39s):
There's like you mentioned the leukotrienes and prostoglandins, and these things are being effected by EPA, and they do affect platelets and platelet aggregation. And they, you know, they do affect that whole pathway as well. And so there's just, and there's, you know, I think there's just so many different ways and inputs. And so when we talk about inflammation, honestly, that's a big general term, but you're talking about when you're talking about serotonin release, you know, at the level of neurons, you know, we know that these inflammatory molecules cross the blood-brain barrier. And I just mentioned to go about injecting people with lipopolysaccharide and causing depressive symptoms. You know, it's known that, that omega-3 actually specifically EPA is able to help serotonin inflammation inhibits the release of serotonin.

2 (1h 12m 27s):
And so EPA is actually able to blunt inflammatory responses along with DHA as well. DHA does that through resolvins and stuff. And this then helps more serotonin to be released because you're, you're not having so much inflammation getting into the brain and effecting serotonin release, right? That's one mechanism. And then another would be, well, DHA itself has been shown it's, it's a very important fatty acid that makes up cell memories, many cell membranes, including in our neurons. And as you very well know, Andrew, the structure and function of receptors of transporters, these membrane bound proteins on the surface of ourselves, including neurons are effected by the membrane fluidity. You know, like how rigid and how fluid the cell membrane is.

2 (1h 13m 11s):
And DHA plays a role in that. And so, for example, in animal studies, if you make an animal deficient in DHA, they're serotonin receptors, dopamine receptors they're affected because the structure of them is affected through the fluidity of the membrane. And so I think that's another mechanism and, and I'm talking sort of general, cause I'm not a neuroscientist.

0 (1h 13m 33s):
Nobody, it makes perfect sense. I mean, we know for instance, neuroplasticity and the re almost always involves the recruitment of more receptors or an improvement in some feature of receptor two neuro-transmitters and they literally move laterally in the membrane. They kind of float around like little rafts. Sometimes they are in fact in lipid rafts. And so it makes perfect sense that these molecules like DHA, which are part of the structural fat of the neuron, because of course the outsides of neurons are basically fat, not just the myelin that people have heard of, but the actual membranes that if getting that right, you wouldn't want it as rigid as concrete, but you wouldn't want it as soft as need to come up with something here.

0 (1h 14m 14s):
What's that gooey stuff that kids play with. It's like that goo anyway. Yeah, it's disgusting. And it's too soft to be a membrane for a neuron. That's what, that's what we

2 (1h 14m 23s):
Need someone to put it in.

0 (1h 14m 24s):
Someone, put it in the comments and tell me what that disgusting gooey stuff is. You don't want your neurons to be that gooey. And yet you don't want them to be like concrete either. It's a balance, it's a balance. And in mentioning DHA, I'm just going to, I realize I'm backtracking, but I want to make sure that we close all the hatches for people. We talked a lot about EPA, but our food sources of DHA that you find particularly attractive either by taste or by potency for DHA. What, what are just a few that we could throw out because I am ma'am, I am aware that there are supplements where you can get a nice ratio of EPA to DHA, or you can take them separately as you do. But if I want to make sure that I'm getting enough DHA, what do I need to be sure I'm eating on a regular basis?

2 (1h 15m 8s):
The fish is packaging, the DHA and EPA and the ratio. And, but I, I also do eat salmon row, which is very salty. And it's a, it's a really high source of the phosphate phosphatidylcholine DHA that we talked about it is. And actually

0 (1h 15m 25s):
That I like for some reason, yeah, I'll eat. So I'm discovering something about myself that this is, was not meant to be nutrition, nutritional psychotherapy, but you're doing that for me anyway. I'm discovering that. Yeah. I like eating embryonic fish. I just don't like eating the actual

2 (1h 15m 39s):
Fish.

0 (1h 15m 41s):
Okay. So fish eggs are, are okay. So caviar

2 (1h 15m 44s):
Caviar. Yes. And that's a good source of the phospholipid form. And I was consuming that a lot because I wanted to get the phospholipid form. So, and it's actually really good. There's been some animal studies and piglets and rodents as well, showing that consuming phospholipid DHA during fetal brain development, like gets like 10 times more DHA in the brain. Again, it's

0 (1h 16m 7s):
Makes sense based on fetal development. So do I need to, by beluga caviar stuff can get pretty expensive at $200, a 10.

2 (1h 16m 16s):
I need to. Now I think it's a, it's a matter of preference. And you're, if you're supplementing with your, your two to four grams of fish oil, I mean that you're going to get fossil a bit form anyway, cause your body's going to make it.

0 (1h 16m 30s):
Okay. I've seen, I've seen some containers of, of what I assume to be quality fish eggs that are not at the caviar level that you can find in the better grocery stores that aren't super expensive. Right. I wouldn't dip as low as to go eat for instance, like I'm fishing bait. Like when we were kids, we used to go fishing and you put the fish egg on the thing. That's probably not good, although it's good enough for the fish. Okay. I'm only half joking here, folks. I'm just trying to protect you from yourselves. Don't get any crazy ideas about eating fishing bait. Okay. So that's great to know. So we have these plant-based compounds. We have the omega-threes so EPA DHA, and then you mentioned there's a third category. What would you place in your camp? Third category of foods or supplement based nutrients that our health brain and or body health can really benefit from?

2 (1h 17m 19s):
I mean, I think the most obvious would be vitamin D, which is actually as, you know, a steroid hormone that we produce when we're in the sun, depending on the time of year, we can make it in our skin. And depending on how much melanin we have under skin or whether or not we're wearing sunscreen or how old we are, it's, it's a very, there's a sliding scale on how efficient that process is.

0 (1h 17m 41s):
And as far as I understand that there's an inverse relationship with the darker, the more darker the darker your skin is naturally the more vitamin D you need to consume is that right?

2 (1h 17m 51s):
Well, the darker your skin is the harder it is. So there was a study out of the university of Chicago. This was several years ago where they looked at African-Americans and compared African-Americans to Caucasians with light skin and fair skin and how, how well they could make vitamin D from sun exposure and, and, and how long they had to be in the sun to make X amount. Right. And it turns out that African-Americans with darker, darker pigmentation, which protects them from the burning rays of the sun. It's a natural sunscreen, had to stay in this on like six times as long as someone with none of that natural sunscreen. So I think the, the, the, the take home there is, you know, a lot of people with darker skin living in Subsaharan, Africa, or people living in India with darker skin or in the Philippines, you know, these equatorial regions where there's there, you tend to see darker skin because it's protection from the burning rays,

0 (1h 18m 45s):
They

2 (1h 18m 46s):
Are in the sun more, and they're getting more vitamin D, but people that may be moved to the United States like Minnesota, or in a place where, you know, UVB radiation, isn't getting to the atmosphere 12 months out of the year. It's only getting there four months, for example, or even living in our modern day society where people just don't go outside anymore. I mean, we're inside, we're in our laptops in school, we're at work when we're cubicle, whatever. So supplementation does play a major role, not only for people with, you know, darker skin that, that aren't outside all the time, but for everyone, 70% of the U S population has inadequate vitamin D levels, 70 of the whole us. So this is everyone.

2 (1h 19m 26s):
And, and so I think that insufficient levels defined as less than 30 nanograms per milliliter. And, and that's sort of defined by the, the endocrine society and looking, looking, looking at a lot of different aggregate studies and all cause mortality, for example, there's been a lot of different meta analysis of all cause mortality studies where vitamin D levels are really seem to be ideal between 40 to 60 nanograms per milliliter. And so in order to get to that level, if you are not outside all the time, live in sunny, Southern California, where you're always outside without sunscreen on, I always wear sunscreen because I'm trying to protect skin from so many wrinkles and stuff.

2 (1h 20m 9s):
Right. But also skin cancer is, you know, somewhat of an issue as well. So, so, so basically the point is that vitamin D is a steroid hormone, meaning it actually binds to a receptor and another receptor dimerizes with it vitamin the, the retinoid receptor. And that complex goes into the nucleus of a cell where your DNA is. And it rectally recognizes little sequences of DNA called vitamin D. Response elements are called <inaudible> they're specific sequences of DNA that this complex vitamin D bound the vitamin D receptor goes inside and recognizes and turns on a whole host of genes, turns off a whole host of genes. I mean, this is, this is important stuff.

2 (1h 20m 51s):
Like imagine 70% of the population having insufficient testosterone, right? It's a steroid hormone,

0 (1h 20m 57s):
Which might we might be headed there, but probably not. No, I think that its names are very important. And I think that one of the issues is that vitamin D is called vitamin D. It's not called the AGA or, you know, variant, blah, blah, blah. It doesn't sound like a hormone. I also am glad that you're mentioning skin as the major kind of interface between the environment and vitamin D synthesis, because a lot of people think of skin as just a protective sheath around us or something to adorn ourselves with earrings or tattoos or whatever, but skin obviously serves those roles, but the skin is an endocrine organ. It has the capacity to make things that impact hormones and to make hormones as this beautiful study out this last year, where this took place in over in Israel, where they had people get outside for 20 or 30 minutes a day, three times a week, exposing a culturally acceptable yet, you know, substantial amount of their, their skin during that time and saw big increases in testosterone and estrogen.

0 (1h 21m 59s):
And this is through a Korat and a site linked pathway involving P 53 that had a bunch of this was done in humans, but they did some knockout studies in parallel. And what this study told me or reminded me is that skin is an endocrine organ. So the idea that sun could trigger the activation of, of a production of a hormone is really interesting and makes total sense. So when vitamin D gets into cells and it's binding to these VDR EAs, what, what sorts of things are they triggering? So like for testosterone, we know it's going to trigger protein, synthesis, muscle growth, tendon strength, et cetera, with estrogen, it's going to be a, keep your neurons going your joints feeling good. I was remind people that by the way, cause it guys are always seemed to want to increase their testosterone and reduce their estrogen.

0 (1h 22m 43s):
Just re remind people, if you reduce your estrogen guys, your libido will plummet to near zero. Don't crush your estrogen. It also make you stupid. If you're not already stupid, it will make you stupid. So estrogen is vitally important for males and females when vitamin D gets into cells, what sorts of things is it stimulating?

2 (1h 23m 4s):
Okay. So first of all, it's, it's regulating more than 5% of the protein encoded human genome, more than five. And this was, you know, I say more than because when I was looking at this data really in depth, back in you starting in 2012 to 2014, it was that, and then it's now grown. But one of the important things that you'll find interesting that I published on back in 2014 was that I'd gone through this, this big published database where someone had, you know, published all these genes, they found <inaudible>. And basically I found that trip to fan hydroxylase one and tryptophan hydroxylase two was on there.

2 (1h 23m 45s):
And so then I started looking at the sequence and I was doing some in silico work. And it turns out that the <inaudible> and tryptophan hydroxylase too. So for people listening, tryptophan hydroxylase is an enzyme that converts tryptofan into serotonin. So tryptofan is what we, an amino acid that we get from our food. You convert serotonin, you convert tryptophan into serotonin into the gut in the gut, but you also do it in the brain. However, serotonin does not cross the blood-brain barrier. So tryptofan has to get into your brain and then you have to convert it to serotonin in your brain. Well, the enzyme that does that in your brain is called tryptophan hydroxylase too. And it's activated by vitamin D.

2 (1h 24m 27s):
The one in the gut is actually tryptophan. Hydroxylase one, some of my, my published work hypothesized that it might actually be repressed by vitamin D because it has a sequence, the sequence itself, this 12 nucleotide sequence can determine to some degree whether it's going to be activated or turned off. And so, like, I was able to kind of look at that and think, oh, maybe this and that. And so since then, there've been some groups that have confirmed more with InVivo and, or in vitro studies is mine was all silicone and all that stuff. But anyways, so saratonin a really important one, but most people, I mean, this is regulating our immune, our immune cell immune system. It's regulating our blood pressure, you know, all that that's water retention, you know, I mean, bone of course, homeostasis 5% more than 5%.

2 (1h 25m 16s):
I mean, I can't tell you like so much,

0 (1h 25m 19s):
I mean, and with Sev seven, 0% of the U S population deficient, I mean, I think that this could be the linchpin in a number of really important issues. So supplementing vitamin D three is what I normally, here's the, I do. I take a, I think I ended up taking 5,000. I use sometimes 10. I use a vitamin D three per day just on that for a long time. And I've had my levels tested in there in range, but I have a family member I'll just mention this. I have a family member who was not feeling well, just kind of feeling awful, little low D had some digestive issues. This went on a long period of time was taking on my recommendation.

0 (1h 25m 59s):
15,000 I use of T3 and was still deficient, D three now takes, and I'm not suggesting anyone do this as a special case perhaps, but no chronic illness that we're aware of needs to take 30,000 IUs per day in order to bring their D three range just into normal, which is to me, it's striking because they eat quite well. They're a healthy weight, et cetera, but it, and it's made a tremendous difference in terms of their mood. Now, of course it is correlative. Now they feel better. They're doing it. Who knows. They're probably also getting outside more, but I mean, I think people need to get tested. They need to get their D three levels tested, but where, where in what is a good starting range for people to, to think about D three supplementation and again, foods that can increase T3.

2 (1h 26m 45s):
So vitamin D three is a good way to supplement with it. Their vitamin D two would be a plant source. You often find it as fortified in like foods like milk. It's usually D two, there's been a few

0 (1h 26m 56s):
And still drink milk. Besides kids, people, you can't find cows.

2 (1h 27m 2s):
I mean, all the locks, ways that you're getting,

0 (1h 27m 6s):
Therefore

2 (1h 27m 7s):
To find in those as well.

0 (1h 27m 8s):
Okay. Oh, they

2 (1h 27m 9s):
Are. Yeah. The fortified Milk and oat milk and all that stuff. Yeah. They're there, they're in all that stuff. Okay. Vitamin D is naturally to some degree in fatty fish, like, you know, like you think about Cod liver oil, right? It's like it has vitamin D, but it's not, you're not going to correct a deficiency with eating right, with eating fish for your vitamin D like you're either going to correct it with sun exposure, being in the right area, having the right amount of sun and being the right age. Because as you get old, you become very inefficient at doing that converting vitamin D making vitamin D three and your skin.

0 (1h 27m 44s):
Well, that's probably what was going on here because this person is getting up in their age.

2 (1h 27m 47s):
It's a lot of single nucleotide polymorphism. My more physics, we talked about AICPA, we for previously, but there's a variety of genes that people have very common, actually. In fact, I've had many people that have had to do done that exact same thing. So I'm measuring your vitamin D levels before and after supplementation, or the only way you're gonna figure that out. Right. Very important. If you don't measure it, like you don't know, like, you know, you can't know what you don't measure. So, so there's a variety of snips that basically make that conversion inefficient. And in fact, there've been a lot of these Mundelien randomization study. So these are studies where people, scientists will look at common snips, people that have these common variations of a gene.

2 (1h 28m 33s):
That's a little more than 1% of the population. So it's not a random mutation it's actually found in a, in a sizable percent of the population. And then they've looked at various outcomes. And a lot of times they'll look at genes that are also involved in some kind of lifestyle factors. So vitamin D and snips that basically make the conversion of vitamin either vitamin D precursor into D three or in D three into 25 hydroxy vitamin D or into the active steroid hormone, which is 1 25 hydroxy D. And there's a variety of different snips that show people. And so you're not looking at vitamin D levels at all. You're looking at just the snips and you know, if they have it, there have low vitamin D. Okay. So it's really a way of doing a beautifully randomized controlled trial with an observational study, because your you're not biased.

2 (1h 29m 22s):
You know, vitamin D levels are also associated with health. People that are have higher vitamin D are either outside more than more physically active, or they're aware of their health and they're supplementing, right? So you always have to worry about that when you're, when you're, you're doing an observational sleep, but when dealing around a visitation is beautiful for that reason where you now just random people randomly have these genes, and it's not like there's no health status. Like if you have this snip, like your friend, like your family member was healthy and all that, you know, they were healthy and yet they couldn't get their D levels up. Right? So these, these Mandalian randomization studies have found that people that can't convert into the precursor, the 25 hydroxy vitamin D, which is usually what's measured, it's the most stable form of vitamin D in the body.

2 (1h 30m 3s):
They have a higher all-cause mortality if they can't do it. So people with, you know, that don't have it have a lower all-cause mortality, they have a higher respiratory related mortality. They have a higher cancer related mortality. So to me now, why did I get on this rant? Oh, because your friend, your family member. So basically they also are more likely to get multiple sclerosis. This has all been done with and minimization. And so it really does hammer home, the importance of measuring your vitamin D levels and being, being very proactive about that. I mean, you can, you can get it done anywhere. Your doctor will do it. You ask them to do it. You know? So supplementation wise, typically, if you don't have one of those snips for, for the most part taking 1000 IUs of vitamin D will raise blood levels by around five nanograms per milliliter.

2 (1h 30m 52s):
So let's say you're deficient, you're 20 nanograms per milliliter, and you want to get to 40, you're going to need at least 4,000. I use, if you're normal, don't have any of these snips that change your metabolism of vitamin D. Right.

0 (1h 31m 4s):
Does it matter when you take it relative to sun exposure, time of day with, or without food?

2 (1h 31m 11s):
I've seen some not so great preliminary evidence suggesting maybe time of day is important. I don't think it really, like, I can't seem to, you know, to find anything that really suggests because like the, for it to actually be converted into the hormone, I mean, it's stored

0 (1h 31m 30s):
Hormones are slower.

2 (1h 31m 31s):
Yeah. It's not like an immediate thing. Right. So like, you know, maybe we'll get some new data that's like otherwise, but I just don't. Yeah.

0 (1h 31m 38s):
It simplifies the problem anyway. So for people who are going to be stubborn and not get their D three levels test or their D levels tested and simply say, oh, I'll just take some D three. That was me, by the way, B until I got tested, I threw 5,000. I use into the mix and figured, well, it's not going to kill me. It'll bring my vitamin D levels up. I realized that's a bit of a, of a, of a coarse way to approach it, but, you know, I feel fine and I'm still breathing an ambulatory. So is, is that reasonable? A thousand to 5,000 I use for most people will be reasonably safe. Again, we're not making just assuming that people are going to just jump to it without the blood test.

2 (1h 32m 18s):
Of course. I think that if we, if we, if we look at the, the, the literature, the scientific literature, it is extremely hard to get like hypercalcemia, which would be the major concern with really high levels of vitamin D three supplementation. I mean, we're talking like hundreds of thousands of ICU a day for a long time. So

0 (1h 32m 39s):
Yes,

2 (1h 32m 40s):
Yes. Now the, the, the upper tolerable intake was set by the, the, the medicine Institute to be 4,000, just, it was just like the safe, it was kind of like one of those things where it's safe. I personally take 5,000. I use it as well. And, you know, my levels really hover around 50 nanograms per mil. And I, I do out, you know, I don't, I don't put sunscreen on like all the time. Like I do put it on my face and I wear a hat, but like, some of my skin is being exposed. So I do make it, you know, from the sun as well. But

0 (1h 33m 11s):
You brought up the fact that you keep arms exposed, if you could, because in these studies that I mentioned before, looking at sun exposure on skin and increases in other hormones, testosterone, estrogen, mainly it was, it became clear from looking at those data, that the amount of skin that you expose is important, which makes perfect sense once you hear that. But I think most people think, oh, I'm out in the sun, but are you wearing shorts and a t-shirt or are you wearing a sweatshirt? And it's a hoodie, or, you know, are you, are you all covered up out in the sun? Well, that might be great for setting your circadian rhythm by way of a light to through the eyes. Cause that's the primary mechanism for that. But it seems to me that the, the more of your body surface that you can safely and appropriately, please folks appropriately exposed to the sun, the more vitamin D you're going to create.

0 (1h 33m 59s):
Right. So laying out in, on your back deck in shorts and a t-shirt with arms exposed and legs exposed is a very different stimulus than walking around in jeans and a sweatshirt. Right. Okay. Yeah. Okay. Especially if you have sunscreen on your face, I know it almost seems like trivially simple, but I am not sure that people are used to thinking about their skin as a interface to create these hormones. Yeah. So surface area matters.

2 (1h 34m 24s):
And by the way, you know, there there've been studies looking at people that are deficient in vitamin D. In this case, it was African-Americans that were given a 4,000 IEU a day, vitamin D supplement to bring them back to sufficient levels. And this was, this was a smaller, smaller study than I would like, but it reversed their epigenetic aging by like three years. Because again, it's a hormone it's regulating more than 5% of your protein and coding human genome. There was, there's been studies looking at vitamin D receptor knockout, mice. And I use this a lot in my presentations when I'm talking about vitamin D and longevity.

2 (1h 35m 3s):
But if you look at these animals, the vitamin D receptor, as I mentioned earlier, vitamin D binds to the receptor, and then it complexes with the retinoid receptor. And they go into the nucleus of the complex and reg you turn on and turn off genes. Well, if you get rid of that receptor, which is what you can do in animal studies, you can just, you can sort of determine like what effects there'll be with no vitamin D, right? Like what, how do you study? No, no vitamin D. And so what was found was that these animals, and if in fact, I don't think it was a complete knockout or, you know, cause I think it might be embryonic lethal, but

0 (1h 35m 37s):
Some hypomorphic, which is basically geek speak for a gene is very, is vastly reduced in its function number and function. Number of people know what I mean? But, but isn't eliminate completely.

2 (1h 35m 49s):
Yeah. Right. Well, these animals, if you look at them after the age of four months, I mean the mice look like, I mean, the they're accelerated aging. They're wrinkled. They have no hair. I mean, they just, I mean their lifespan lifespan shorter. I mean, they just, they, you can look at this animal and not know anything about mice or work with them and be like, that animal looks like it's, you know, of course my slave spins are only like two, two and a half years, but like 500 years old. Right.

0 (1h 36m 15s):
It looks like it, it went to graduate school twice. Yeah. Actually graduate. School's a lot of fun. I like to think I aged backwards in graduate school, which is not true. I look at the photos. I definitely aged forward you on the other hand look exactly the same way you did 10 years ago. I'm not saying that to flatter you, but it's absolutely true. I mean the, the data or the data it's, it's remarkable. So I, I think it's, I'm definitely gonna try and get my omega-3 percentage up there. I'm not gonna, you know, hinge it all on that, but cool. You're doing a lot of things. Right. So if I'm taking vitamin D three, I still need to get out into the sun. Correct. Okay. I think a lot of people don't know that, or at least I have family members that have been a little bit resistant. Like I take my vitamin D so I don't need to get outside as much.

0 (1h 36m 56s):
I think people are really afraid of getting out into the sun because they're worried about melanomas and, and I'm as a, to be honest, I'm as scared of sunscreen as I am of melanoma. Like there's, some of the things in sunscreen are really spooky, mainly the compound. And here I'm not one of these conspiracy. I drink tap water, listen folks. I like people cringe. When I drink tap water, I have the occasional croissant or doughnut. I'm not, you know, I'm, I'm 90%, 80% of the time I'm doing the right things the right way. I think, although I'm now going to improve on them with this new knowledge, but, but I don't like what I see in most sunscreens, because if you look at these compounds, they cross the blood brain barrier. I don't want compounds crossing the blood-brain barrier that

2 (1h 37m 39s):
Oxide

0 (1h 37m 39s):
Dioxide, some of the tri-color sands that are also in these cleansers. I mean, it's once you know, a little bit about neurons focusing realized that the neurons you got are basically the ones you've got for your entire life. You know, there's a reason why there's a blood brain barrier, a blood ovary and a blood test, these barriers because the genetic material resides in the testes, the ovaries and the brain, those neurons don't turn over. There are a few new neurons, but not that many, unless you're a mouse frankly. And so protecting those is very key. And a lot of the things in sunscreen are downright dangerous. So I think there are sunscreens that are safe, but it's very hard to figure out which sunscreens are free of these compounds. I'm amazed that they're still on the market, frankly.

2 (1h 38m 20s):
I've always geared towards the ones with the minerals that are like reflecting. It, it is, it is somewhat difficult to penetrate things all the way through the skin, into the, get into the bloodstream. I don't, but I don't know. Maybe some of these compounds get in there easily. I have seen the evidence with some of those things. Yeah.

0 (1h 38m 38s):
Yeah. They go, there is some evidence they go transdermal

2 (1h 38m 42s):
And they get in. Okay, well, I know that some of them react with the sun and while they do protect from the UVA and or be they like form massive reactive oxygen species and carcinogen. I mean, it's like the very thing you're trying to protect yourself from might actually, cause we don't know. I mean, like it's completely speculation, but there is like, I think some more, more and more evidence coming out with some of those compounds and etiquette. I can't remember all, all of them off the top of my head, but a lot of high-end ones also have have, you know, it's the chemical sunscreen ones, right? The chemical ones. Yeah.

0 (1h 39m 15s):
We should do. I'm proposing that we do at journal club, a journal club folks is where academics get together and read paper. Well, they get read papers and they get together and they pick apart the papers. There's a strong correlation between being an early graduate student and being the most critical because once you've actually published some papers, you realized that, you know, most studies people are doing their best within the context of what they can do, but it'd be great to do a journal club at some point about sunscreens. Cause I'd love to really figure out what's in these compounds. I mean, people are using them like crazy and I'm not one of these people. Who's like, oh, I won't use commercial toothpaste or anything like that. I, I I'm, like I said, I drink tap water. I use commercial toothpaste, whatever. But when it comes to sunscreen, it freaks me out because some of these compounds do go transdermal and some of them cross the blood brain barrier and I'd like to keep my neurons free of that stuff.

0 (1h 40m 1s):
Anyway, we're speculating now and wear hat, but get out in the sun and get your D three levels up. Okay. So we've talked about these plant-based compounds, the omega-threes and D three, unless there's something else that you just absolutely must throw into the mix. I probably will return us to the conversation. And I opened up with, which is about cold and heat, which admittedly, I pulled us off that, that path. So I want to, I take full responsibility for that. But before I do that, I just want to offer you the opportunity. Is there, are there, is there anything that fit to supplement based or food based compounds that you, you know, you think are expressions are useful for brain and our body health?

2 (1h 40m 44s):
I do think magnesium is important in there as well. I mean, I think, you know, again, about 40% of the us population doesn't get enough magnesium. It's an mineral we're supposed to be getting from our diet and

0 (1h 40m 56s):
Involved in everything

2 (1h 40m 58s):
It is it's involved. It's also involved in vitamin D metabolism. And in fact, being deficient in magnesium may make it more difficult for you to actually make vitamin D hormone. So that 1 25 hydroxyvitamin D so one of those other factors, again, talking, we talked about genetics, but there's also a magnesium status as well, considering 40%. That's a big number now, you know, magnesium is also involved in making ATP, the energetic currency of ourselves there. You know, basically all of our cells need ATP to do anything. And they're also, it's also involved in utilizing ATP as well as DNA repair enzymes, either enzymes that are involved in repairing damage to our DNA.

2 (1h 41m 40s):
I personally think that magnesium insufficiency is a insidious type causes an insidious type of damage daily that you can't look in the mirror and see like when you're deficient in vitamin C, you're like my, my gums are falling apart. I had scurvy, right? But like, you can see DNA damage. You can't see it, but it's happening. It's happening right now in my body. And it's happening in your body. It's happening. Normal metabolism is happening, you know, every day. But we repair that damage. We have repair enzymes in our body called DNA repair enzymes. They require magnesium. Magnesium is a co-factor for them. What that means is, you know, a co-factor means enzymes need it to function properly. And so without that, cofactor, they're not doing it properly.

2 (1h 42m 24s):
And I liked the way I like to think about magnesium. It's easy. Cause people go, what food should I eat? Right. Naturally. That's the next question? Well, magnesium is at the center of a chlorophyll Mol molecule. Chlorophyll is what gives plants, their green color. So dark leafy greens are high in magnesium. It's one of the, and people basically what is the 40% insufficiency insufficiency in the U S tell us people aren't eating their greens. They're not eating their greens. They're eating their packaged food. They're eating their processed food and standard American diet. Isn't really high in dark leafy greens. So, so dark leafy greens are how I like to get my magnesium. I think it comes along with all these other important. I mean, you get calcium in them. You get that vitamin K one, you're getting a lot of other micronutrients and you're getting other compounds that we don't know about.

2 (1h 43m 8s):
And ones that we know about like sulforaphane, right?

0 (1h 43m 11s):
W as with broccoli, do I need to eat the dark leafy greens raw? And in this case I'm a little more open to it because I actually liked the taste of dare I say, kale and kills a dark leafy green. Right? Let's start. I mean, it's obviously I'm

2 (1h 43m 27s):
Not,

0 (1h 43m 28s):
I'm gonna try Chromat meaning I'm not, I'm not colorblind, but I, but I just want to make sure it falls under the strict category because every once in a while I'm like, oh, I eat my vegetables. I like avocados and be warm. I mean, because vegetable, I love vegetables also, but so kale, what are some other examples?

2 (1h 43m 42s):
Kale, spinach, chard, Swiss, chard, rainbow chard, romaine lettuce.

0 (1h 43m 47s):
I mean just the bitterness and important component to this. I know the

2 (1h 43m 50s):
Museum, no, but for four sulforaphane sulforaphane for cruciferous vegetables, that would be the, the, the brassica family. But your question about cooking them. So magnesium is, it is bound to the food matrix and it, and it can be somewhat less bioavailable, but I, you know, so cooking, it can somewhat release the, the magnesium, but it goes into the water too. So like, you have to like either steam it or kind of, you know, like get your water in with it. Like yeah. You know, I personally don't worry about it. Just, don't worry. I think like

0 (1h 44m 30s):
If you don't worry, I'm not

2 (1h 44m 31s):
Going. I also would like I to supplement with Maggie, I do take around so supplementation with magnesium. I mean, we could go on and on, let's keep this short and sweet because we didn't get back to the other stuff, but you know, it can cause GI distress at like high doses. I personally like to take around 130 or 135 milligrams that way. It's not like I'm a huge ball is to my gut.

0 (1h 44m 54s):
It depends on the form of magnesium too.

2 (1h 44m 56s):
Yes. Yeah. I mean, you can take like magnesium three and eight, for example, and you know, isn't as effect, you know, it doesn't affect the gut as much

0 (1h 45m 5s):
Magnesium citrate.

2 (1h 45m 6s):
Citrate is what I take

0 (1h 45m 8s):
Is pretty, I

2 (1h 45m 9s):
Take

0 (1h 45m 10s):
Gut stimulus. I mean, I feel like it's a little bit harder to man to,

2 (1h 45m 14s):
Well, I take a hundred, 135 milligrams should be pretty good. I'm in citrate, actually a boy. Do we want to go here? So

0 (1h 45m 20s):
I mean, it's up to you and we can, we don't have to, I personally, I've been supplementing with magnesium for a long time. I've I use three and eight and BIS glycinate and malate for different reasons. So I, yes, I would love to go there if you're, if you're,

2 (1h 45m 38s):
I would say Malai would be the best and that, that, that has to do with the short chain, fatty acids being good for the gut and a lot of work done by a former colleague of mine and good friend, mark Chickamauga, showing that the short chain fatty at citrate Malai lactate, but, but specifically Malai really in lactate are the, are the major ones that get into the, to the gut epithelial cells and our energy source for the mitochondria and the goblet cells. So anyways, whole other

0 (1h 46m 4s):
That's okay. Yeah, I take Molly because I was told that it would be helpful. First of all, it doesn't make me sleepy, like some of the other forms of magnesium, which are act as a mild sedative for me, they do tap into the GABAergic pathway, neuro neuro-transmitter folks that in general, broad sweeping generalization here can, can have somewhat of a, of a sedative quality, which is why I take magnesium three and eight and, or BIS glycinate before sleep, 30 to 60 minutes before sleep definitely enhances my transition time to sleep and the depth of sleep. No question in my, my experience, there's some data that three and eight can be cognitive can be neuroprotective.

0 (1h 46m 44s):
Although those are still, those studies are still ongoing. I I'm getting the sense that maybe you're a little more skeptical of that.

2 (1h 46m 50s):
I, yeah, I know. I I've. I've seen the studies with the three and eight, I think like looking at the actual data from the, the one clinical study. There wasn't statistical significance until all three of the pieces of data were pulled together. But that really could just be because their sample size was too small. Right?

0 (1h 47m 8s):
Yeah. I'm thinking that, that paired with the there's some words yeah. The goal song lose work on with, so in the, this is getting kind of into inside ball of neuroscience, you know, that the quality of the labs matters folks, and that's something that's not accessible to people outside of fields and, you know, go song Lou. And some of the other folks with at that time at MIT did I, I think very highly of their work. And so they, the animal studies are indeed jus animal studies, but I was pretty impressed by what they did in those studies. Very pioneering thing. When you think about this being done 10, 12, 15 years ago, and then yes, we need more human clinical data. But I, for me, I figured that that given the safety profile of mag three and eight, given that it helps me sleep better and sleeping better is just better for everything, frankly.

0 (1h 47m 53s):
That's why I take it in BIS glycinate in three and eight seemed to be somewhat interchangeable, but there's, I don't know of any reports that BIS glycinate can be neuroprotective, but mallet, I take her in the daytime. I, I, it for me, and again, this is subjective. It has a tangible effect in improving the recovery time from exercise. So it, I don't know that I've been sore from a workout since I started taking Molly and I used to get very sore from even kind of trivial workout. So I don't know what's going on there, but I keep taking it.

2 (1h 48m 22s):
Malai again, the short chain fatty acid. And I mean, you know, when you do have yet, when you do intense extra exercise, you release endotoxin from your gut. I I'm just going back to the interesting work cause the, the Malai being the short chain, fatty acid, and, you know, you know, mark sugar log is showing, this is all an animal research by the way. But I mean, it was like, you know, feeding these animals. Malai, I mean, it really protected the gut endotoxin release and it affected metabolic syndrome and all sorts of things. But I think Molly, Molly is awesome. And I always try to eat green apples. They're really high in malic acid and tart cherries. Tart cherries are really high in it as well.

0 (1h 48m 59s):
But

2 (1h 48m 59s):
I, I, I was really interested in the magnesium three and eight stuff. I take a supplement called magnesium by Moonjuice and it's like a little powder. It's got a little bit of monk fruit, but it tastes good. So I, I do it a little bit before bedtime as well. Probably several more hours though, because I don't like to drink tons and tons of fluids before I go to bed. And it has magnesium three and eight and a variety of other versions of magnesium in it as well. And I really like it, but I thought the magnesium threonate stuff was super interesting. I, you know, would love to see more clinical data as well. But I think, you know, once we get it, it'll probably be like, oh yeah, it's getting into the brain. And it's awesome. So, you know, why wait? Right.

0 (1h 49m 36s):
I, and along those lines, I once put out a post that said, you know, I've, I feel like there are a number of different categories of health concerns, health information, consumers online, and understanding which one you're in for which topic can alleviate a lot of the strain and stress of finding the information that there's some people that are perfectly comfortable with data from a mouse study. It's like, if it's done in mice, great, I'll try it. Other people say, no, it has to be done in humans, a double blind placebo controlled studies, you know, randomized clinical trials, et cetera. Then other people are just say, you know what? I don't even care about any of that. Just tell me what you do. And then other people are saying, you know what? I don't even care what you do. Just tell me what to do. And then there's this other category which are, if it's in pill form or powder form, they'll take it.

0 (1h 50m 17s):
And so I think a lot of the battles of people picking apart people's posts and things have to do with the fact that, that people don't realize that people are showing up to the table in one or some combination of those stances. We know people that will try anything and we know people that won't take anything. So the idea here is to create an array of possibilities for people. And I think the animal data are very impressive. We should have you back onto

2 (1h 50m 43s):
And get with the hope of, because I feel like the animal data is very promising. And so I'm like, it probably is that why not?

0 (1h 50m 50s):
Well, and obviously you're doing things right. So cold and heat converge on some common pathways related to what you called intermittent challenge, which I love. I think if, you know, interment fasting, cold heat exercise, I mean, maybe even intermittent sleep deprivation, I keep waiting for the intermittent sleep deprivation movement. I will say I pull a few all-nighters per year just for work demands and procrastination and deadlines. And I'm the worst combination of, of academic because I'm both a procrastinator and a perfectionist. So you end up pulling some, all nighters, the sleep I get the next night is pretty amazing. I must say, it's the sleep of gods, but I don't recommend any when you sleep deprivation for that.

0 (1h 51m 34s):
But I can imagine that we also evolved having some sleepless nights. So this idea of intermittent challenges is a really attractive one. And I want to make sure that we credit you with the phrase intermittent challenge,

2 (1h 51m 44s):
Dr. Mark Mattson.

0 (1h 51m 46s):
Okay. Dr. Mark Madsen gets

2 (1h 51m 47s):
Flushed and he has

0 (1h 51m 48s):
Used those words that raise. Okay, great. We'll make sure

2 (1h 51m 51s):
Dr. Davidson, Claire. I love the xenohormesis. It was in like one of his publications just so many years ago and I just love it. It's brilliant. Brilliant term. So

0 (1h 52m 0s):
It's hard guys are pretty smart, you know, it's, I mean, it's a, it's a good school, I guess. Of course it's a good school. We will credit the appropriate people. Thank you for that clarification. So you've talked a lot about the use of deliberate, what I call deliberate cold exposure only to distinguish it from cold that you might just be accidentally exposed to, but it's sort of obvious when we say cold exposure, there are some amazing data on cold. The other day, I saw a post from you and it's, you've included this in talks before. I did not know this until I learned it from you. So credit to you that even 20 seconds of immersion in, I think it was four degree,

2 (1h 52m 40s):
49 degrees,

0 (1h 52m 41s):
49 degree Fahrenheit. Okay. I was translating to Celsius at 49 degree Fahrenheit water. So cold water can lead to long lasting increases in epinephrin adrenaline. And I have to presume other neuro neuromodulators and neurochemicals as well. What are some cold protocols that you find particularly interesting or attractive from the standpoint of, I don't know, pick your favorite metabolism, neuro slash mood effects, brown fat stimulation, which of course weaves back to metabolism. You know, we could, we could do an entire episode all about coal, but what I'd love to know is what sort of activity or stimulus you you think is a reasonable and particularly potent one to use in terms of cold.

2 (1h 53m 29s):
So today I did three minutes at 49 degrees Fahrenheit. I have a cold tub

0 (1h 53m 34s):
To get it up to your neck.

2 (1h 53m 35s):
Well, I try to keep floating up. And so I'm like, it's like really hard. So the F like, I, I would say like, maybe most of my shoulder, I mean, really I'm floating up. I was telling, I was telling my husband, I was like, this there's too much water in here for me. I can't

0 (1h 53m 51s):
Get salt in there. Is it like the dead sea where you float on top?

2 (1h 53m 54s):
Is there salt in there? I don't know. He takes care of all the stuff that, you know, it's, it's, it's the, it's the plunge.

0 (1h 53m 60s):
Yeah. They may Ben, by the way, where the podcast, nor I am sponsored by plunge, they did give me one. That thing is fantastic also because it circulates the water, which makes sure that you break up the thermal layer and it's even colder.

2 (1h 54m 10s):
It is even colder. It's sucks. Anyways. So look, I'll, I'll, I'll give, give, I'll be honest here. I wish I did more cold than I do. I do cold. When I'm going to go on a podcast, I definitely do call when I'm gonna do a podcast. When I'm going to give a talk or when I'm anxious, I need to make it more of a ritual. I love doing the sauna. I hate the cold. I hate it unless it's summertime. It's a lot easier for me to get in the cold in the summertime. But what I do love about the cold is how I feel after. And I feel less anxious. I feel good. I feel more focused, which is why I usually do it before any type of public speaking, or just when I'm just anxious, I'll just get in there.

2 (1h 54m 55s):
And so the 20 seconds at 49 degrees, I think it was 49 degrees Fahrenheit. It was really a good number because time and temperature do time or duration, I guess, would be a better word and temperature do matter. But, but you know, you can, you can do 20 seconds at a colder temperature, which is I prefer, or you can do a minute or longer at a warmer temperature. I think there was another study showing 59 degrees Fahrenheit at one hour. It was like two or three full, but who wants to get one hour?

0 (1h 55m 28s):
Yeah, I'm familiar with that study that I love to, this is really reveals just how absolutely nerdy I am and maybe why some times and relationships in my life were challenged. I love reading the methods, sections of papers. So, you know, people can come at me with a number of about papers and I might miss something of our surely I miss certain things like anybody does, but the methods I sort of, I relish in reading the methods. And that paper is really interesting because they had people sit in lawn chairs, basically in swimming pools. So that for an hour, and it wasn't real, it was chilly. It wasn't super cold. I mean, sixties, not right. It's not warm, but it's not ice cold obviously, but an hour is ridiculous at some level, but the increases in dopamine were massive and lasted hours.

0 (1h 56m 14s):
So it's, it's really, so the mood enhancing effects that you report are, they're not, you're not imagining that those are almost certainly a, you know, the consequences of having slowly elevating, but significantly elevated dope dopamine that goes on for hours. That's almost a dreamlike profile for dopamine because most everything else like an Adderall or Ritalin, a cup of coffee and a, and a workout drink or pre-workout drink or something is going to give you a big spike of adrenaline and dopamine and a big crash. And somehow it creates this really nice contoured profile. So I, whatever you're experiencing there is very nicely supported by the data.

2 (1h 56m 52s):
Well, I, I need to get, I need to get doing it more. I I've, I've had a couple of scary experiences going from hot to cold

0 (1h 57m 0s):
Where

2 (1h 57m 1s):
Blood pressure changes. I think where I basically went straight from a really hot jacuzzi. I was in there for like 30 minutes. I mean, I was, I was doing hatred. Yeah. 104 degrees, Fahrenheit

0 (1h 57m 13s):
Toasty.

2 (1h 57m 13s):
And then I'd for 30 minutes. And then I went straight into, at the time it was our pool. It was in like February was like winter time. And it was 50. It was in the fifties, it was cold. And, and I was in there and I was like listening to Simon Garfunkel. I was like trying to stay in a long time, get on my Cole. And I was trying to impress Dan cause he like goes in there for like, he he'll stay in there for like 15 minutes, but I started to feel really Blinky, like low blood pressure or something. And I got scared. So I got out and then I couldn't stand. Like I had vertigo or something and I was so scared, so scared. And so, and I've, I've had a couple of times too where it just going straight from the sauna to it, to the cold plunge where I'm starting to feel.

2 (1h 57m 58s):
I'm like, Ooh, I feel a little blood pressure change or something. And it makes sense. The sauna is causing vasodilation and the cold plunge is cold or cold exposure is causing vasoconstriction until it's like a very, you know, just shock to my system. And so now I wait, like I wait like a few minutes before going in, but I do need to kind of like make it more, the cold more routine because I talk all about the science. I'm familiar with all the science and you know, the, the norepinephrine or Nora adrenaline, you know, it's affecting brain and mood and, and you know, way more about that than I do. I know how I feel. And I know it's a neurotransmitter and you know, it is, it is released at least in rats they've shown or was it mice?

2 (1h 58m 40s):
I think it might've been rats, but multiple showing in that it's released from the cold in the brain

0 (1h 58m 44s):
And now in humans as well. Oh, the

2 (1h 58m 46s):
Brain.

0 (1h 58m 47s):
Oh, in that study, but that's the, we can put a link to this. It's published in 2000 European journal of physiology that big dopamine increase. They also looked at up in Efren and cortisol and saw some really yes. So this has been done in,

2 (1h 58m 59s):
Oh

0 (1h 58m 59s):
No, no, not yet.

2 (1h 59m 0s):
No.

0 (1h 59m 1s):
Yeah. They're very hard to measure a doping directly from the brain unless you're doing micro dialysis knows unfortunately that unfortunately their skulls were intact. Fortunately for them, unfortunately for the research committee, their skulls were intact, so they couldn't measure directly in the brain, but obviously there's a correlate there. You know, it's, it's a very real effect. I think that, but the, the advantage of not doing it too often is that you're not cold adapted now. It's very hard for anyone to get truly cold adapted. I, some people start to look forward to the cold and what I think they're looking forward to is the feeling afterward that dopamine rush. But if you get cold adapted, then it certainly blunts the, some of the effects.

2 (1h 59m 43s):
They want to be cold adapted because that means I have more mitochondria in my adipose tissue and perhaps even muscle like that's been shown.

0 (1h 59m 52s):
So maybe there's a good opportunity to so cold and UCP one, if you could educate us on UCP one, I find this really interesting and I learned about it from you so

2 (2h 0m 1s):
Well. So norepinephrine actually released in the plasma. It does act as a hormone. Vasoconstriction is one thing it does, but it also regulates a variety of molecular functions that have to do with adaption to cold one happening, happening to be, you know, shivering is a very inefficient way to produce heat, which is what your body's trying to do when it's exposed to cold. And your muscles are basically contracting and, and, and producing heat from that. But that's just not very efficient. So the, the more eloquent way to do it or elegant, I guess, a way to do it is, you know, to basically have your mitochondria produce tons and tons of heat. So the way it does this is by activating a gene called UCP one uncoupling protein one, or epinephrin is upstream of that, activating it.

2 (2h 0m 47s):
So that, what that does is essentially so mitochondria are these little organelles inside of yourselves that are responsible for producing energy. Usually that's in the form of adenosine triphosphate ATP, and that's what lets everything function inside of your body, from your neurotransmitter production to your heart beating, et cetera. However, you can uncouple your mitochondria, basically your mitochondria. They're like a little battery. So they have it. They have, well, they have a double membrane, first of all, their structure, but they have a negative charge on the inside and they have a positive charge on the inner membrane. So in between the outer membrane and inside the inside part,

0 (2h 1m 27s):
Like a neuron,

2 (2h 1m 28s):
Like a neuron. Yeah. So I guess it's like a neuron, it's like a battery negative and positive. Well basically you can uncouple that, that charge. And so that positive charge protons start leaking out of the mitochondria and your mitochondria freak out. So this is called uncoupling it, and they start to it's maximum respiration as we call it, they try to make as much energy. They're like, I got to get those that, that, that proton back, that gradient electro-chemical gradient. And so they just go insane. And they, in this case, it's uncoupled energy. So the energy that we're making is actually heat, not ATP, but heat is, but you're essentially burning substrate. So who cares? You're burning, you're burning glucose, you're burning lipids. You know, you're, you're basically burning things and making heat.

2 (2h 2m 10s):
And so that's what uncoupling and does, and that is a much more efficient way of producing heat then shivering. So as you become more adapted, maybe the, the, the longer duration that you've stayed in the cold, or the more times you've done it, you'll no longer shiver anymore. You will start to then just do this uncoupling type of thermogenesis as it's called. And another type of adaptation that occurs is you actually produce more mitochondria in your adipose tissue. And, and that actually happens also regulated by Nora epinephrin or Nora adrenaline through a protein called PGC one alpha. And what that protein does is it makes more mitochondria in your adipose cells.

2 (2h 2m 53s):
So per adipose cell, you're getting more mitochondria. It's a beautiful way to basically make more heat when you're, it's, it's one of those things where it's like, it's, it's your body's going okay, I'm going to be exposed to this cold next time. How can I make sure I don't die? Oh, I can have more mitochondria and I'm going to make more heat. And so you're making more mitochondria in your adipose tissue. And, and this is often referred to as like the Browning of fat. And the reason for that is because if you look under a microscope at a lipid drama, you know, basically a fat cell, not Olympia drop it at adipocyte, you'll find that it looks darker because there's more mitochondria in there. So it's referred to as Browning fat.

2 (2h 3m 34s):
And so we, I don't want to get into the whole beige fat brown, you know, there's this whole, I'm sure you've had experts on that. Talk all about that.

0 (2h 3m 41s):
No, not yet. I mean, I always think of white fat base fat brown fat, and beige is kind of intermediate right. Can be converted into beige,

2 (2h 3m 47s):
Right. And beige can take on a thermogenic characteristics essentially. And so, so you can activate base fat so that it's thermogenic in the sense that it's burning glucose and, or, you know, fatty acids and, and producing heat. So, so the more you expose yourself to cold, the more you can brown your fat, so to speak. And, and therefore you can tolerate the cold for longer periods, which people do notice. And you can then have the thermogenic qualities of having more brown adipose tissue or beige activated beige adipose tissue, which is, you know, you'll get a lot of naysayers out there saying, oh, brown fat doesn't regulate metabolism at all.

2 (2h 4m 28s):
Well, and the reality is there's like thousands of researchers trying to build pill up brown, fat and thermogenic. Like they're trying to make it a pill because does affect metabolism. You know, it's not the only thing it's certainly, if you're obese and trying to lose weight, you're not going to like do that just by doing cold exposure. You need to do dietary and exercise changes, you know, predominantly, but it does, it does affect metabolism. And you know, this is, this has been shown in human studies. So it is interesting nother. It's another possible mechanism for effecting metabolism and that's an adipose tissue, but you also make more mitochondria and muscle tissue.

2 (2h 5m 10s):
And this is regulated, not via nor epinephrin, but it is still PGC one alpha, interestingly, not like not that anyone else really cares about me and maybe you do,

0 (2h 5m 18s):
And I'm eating this up.

2 (2h 5m 21s):
So PGC one alpha is, is respond to his response to norepinephrine and adipose tissue to make more mitochondria. But in, in muscle tissue, it's unclear what the regulator is. Cold exposure does it. So this is, this was shown at least in a couple of studies I've seen where people that were exercising, I believe, or maybe may have been men only that were exercising, did some separate training and then did cold water immersion, something like 50 degrees Fahrenheit, 15 minutes and PGC one alpha, which is a biomarker for mitochondrial biogenesis, which is the generation of new mitochondria, by the way. That's awesome. You want more mitochondria in your muscle? It's associated with improved muscle mass, improved endurance.

2 (2h 6m 2s):
I mean, mitochondria are essentially either the making energy in your cell and we, you know, we don't make more mitochondria and normally, like you have certain inputs, extra high intensity interval training exercise can do it

0 (2h 6m 13s):
And actually make more mitochondria.

2 (2h 6m 15s):
Yes. Yeah. And that's been shown in people and

0 (2h 6m 18s):
Weight training or just high intensity interval training.

2 (2h 6m 21s):
I haven't seen weight training. I've seen it in, in high intensity interval training and Durance training, but that doesn't mean that it hasn't been shown. I just haven't seen it or that it hasn't been looked at.

0 (2h 6m 31s):
So do you know, I'm, I'm always looking for reasons to finally do more hit type high intensity interval training work. I do weight training and I do low intensity cardio.

2 (2h 6m 41s):
It was a brilliant study by, at the time he was a postdoc Matthew Robinson, and he's now gone on to start his own lab at the university of Oregon health science center. And, and he did this study where both young and old, older people were, they had this whole high intensity protocol, which I can't remember what it was, but their protocol for X amount of time, I'm S I'm sure it was at least a month. They then measured biomarkers of mitochondrial biogenesis and their muscle tissue. And the, the amount of mitochondrial biogenesis in old people specifically, it happened in both young and old from hit from the high intensity interval training was, I mean, it was like enormous and at least 50%, I think.

2 (2h 7m 27s):
So. I mean, it was just like, whoa. And so like, why would you want that? Well, you know, mitochondria, you're, you're, might've con you don't make yourself, your cells turning over and you make new cells, you replace old ones where your mitochondria, you don't really do that for the most part. You can, mitochondrial biogenesis does happen, but you have to stimulate it to happen. And the way you might've con like what happens with your mitochondria is they essentially are bobbing around inside of your cells. And then they, they fuse with other mitochondria exchange exchange, all their content and mitochondrial DNA, and then fizz back apart. And that's how they kind of stay young ish. But like, as you age, you, you keep doing that with the same pool of mitochondria, then you're going to get a bunch of old mitochondria mixing old stuff together. Right. So why wouldn't you want to like, bring up new, healthy, young mitochondria into that pool?

2 (2h 8m 13s):
Right. So in my mind, when I hear mitochondrial biogenesis, I'm like aging. Like, that's the first thing I think of. So anyways, cold exposure does that other things as well. So

0 (2h 8m 23s):
No, I, and police thank you for offering to, you know, somehow filter that the level of detail, but I assure you that listeners of this podcast are familiar with getting drinking from the fire hose of mechanism. And that was really helpful. And again, this is just one example of maybe four or five other things that you've said, at least that are gonna inspire me to change my behaviors. I'm gonna start doing some high intensity interval training. Dr. Andy Galpin was on this podcast recently. And he told me that, that the subtle zone to cardio and the weight training's great, but that I really should be doing some max heart rate work per week, you know, going into max heart rate for 90 seconds and resting and repeating that maybe even mile repeats.

0 (2h 9m 4s):
I'm just curious as a brief aside, before we, we talk about heat, what, what sort of cardiovascular or other types of training do you do? Do you do hit? I imagine you are doing high intensity interval training. If you could just give us a sense of the contour of your, your week as it relates to exercise. And, and because you've been very gracious in sharing some of what you do for supplements and food, what about exercise?

2 (2h 9m 27s):
So I, it all depends on my week, of course, and, and, and what I've got going on with my son and my work schedule. But I typically, I do a lot of high intensity interval. Tabatas on a stationary cycle. I use Peloton because I just like the instructor. They're like telling me what to do, and then me competing with everyone else. I'm like, you know, so

0 (2h 9m 47s):
You're revealing something about your psychology. This is what we just learned about. So this podcast is actually just a decoy for, for a psychological assessment of the guests. No, I'm kidding. But so now we know you're competitive. Good. Yeah. That explains a lot of how you got through graduate school and then do what you do. So you're getting on the Peloton and what does it look like for someone who's not familiar with Peloton? I know what they are, but I've never been on one. You are pedaling against the instructor for how many seconds.

2 (2h 10m 14s):
So you're, there's a bunch of people that are online, either doing a class with you at the same time, or have all time doing us who can see you can kind of toggle on what you want. And like, you can try to compete against that time.

0 (2h 10m 25s):
Remember?

2 (2h 10m 26s):
Oh yeah. And the instructor is just there to like whip you like, like, you know, make you there's, there's a part of the brilliance with Peloton is like, I used to do rush. What's called rush cycle. And I used to go, and it's basically, you go in and group, group cycle and have an instructor there and you do all this high intensity interval training stuff. And I loved it because there was a competitive aspect to it that had me working harder than I would work if it was just me in the room, like without an instructor or anyone there. And it was just like, I'm at a gym, any gym. And I'm just on a stationary cycle, listening to a podcast doing something, which is fine if that's your group. Right. But there is something about that group setting that kind of make holds you accountable to, right.

2 (2h 11m 11s):
And the Peloton made it somehow virtual. It was amazing. And I remember being back at rush cycle, this is before a pandemic and people talking about Peloton in my class and I'm like, oh, that's ridiculous. Why would I do that? Like, that's never going to work. I need to like be here. And then the pandemic hit. And I was like all over the Peloton and it works for me really well. So I tend to do that at least three times a week. Sometimes I do it more like, you know, I'll do four and I do a 10 minute, just 10 because it's efficient. And I push my ass. I push myself really hard if it's 20 seconds on 10 seconds off. And it's 10 minutes

0 (2h 11m 47s):
On means you're peddling. Like your life depends. You're

2 (2h 11m 49s):
Maxing it.

0 (2h 11m 50s):
And there's a lot of resistance.

2 (2h 11m 51s):
So you do well. So you basically, there's a part where you're, I always do resistance. I'm like the power I do the power for. There's a part where you're sitting set cycling. You're trying to go really fast, but I always crank the resistance up. I always go above what they give me. And then, and then there's a part where you're standing and then you really crank the resistance up, which I really do. And like, you feel it in your glutes

0 (2h 12m 9s):
And going up the hill.

2 (2h 12m 10s):
Yeah, exactly. And so they like break it up. And most of the time you'll have like those two to two parts and I love the efficiency of it. You, you just, you get it done. And people sometimes hear me go 10 minutes, or really you think you work. I'm like, look like you, Mac, you do max, you had Tabata for 10 minutes. And it like, it's, it's intense.

0 (2h 12m 28s):
Yeah. Most people can't sprint for the, for the gate of an airplane. They're about to miss carrying a backpack. So if you think about, if I think about that, and then I just described myself sprinting through the airport and going, all right, Andy Galpin, I got my 90 seconds max heart rate in for you carrying this thing, but 20 seconds on 10 seconds off repeating that over and over for 10 minutes. So by the time you're done, you're cooked.

2 (2h 12m 52s):
And then I, because I'm competitive during the recovery that they give you at the minute at the, and I'm pushing it, max, I want to write a number

0 (2h 12m 59s):
Right quick.

2 (2h 13m 1s):
Yeah. Three times a week. And then I always have my sauna on predate, reheating up. It takes about an hour and a half, and I get it to about 180 9 degrees Fahrenheit. I hop right in the sauna after my, you know, my, my Peloton.

0 (2h 13m 13s):
So the elevated heart rate continues is that,

2 (2h 13m 15s):
I mean, I literally down a bunch of water and then I get in and, and then I like either read a science paper or prepare for a presentation or a podcast, or I Passover things in my mind. And it's interesting because something about getting in the sauna, I think the stress, the heat stress of it, I used to, so I started doing the sauna in 2009 in graduate school. Okay. And I

0 (2h 13m 41s):
Early adopter, I

2 (2h 13m 43s):
Started doing it every day. I lived across the street. I live in a studio apartment with Dan. We live in this small studio, partly a small department could ever imagine. And it was across the street from a YMC because I was poor, very poor, very poor. I mean, so, you know,

0 (2h 13m 57s):
Well, I recall I lived in my lap.

2 (2h 14m 1s):
Wow.

0 (2h 14m 1s):
But then again, I lived in my lab as a postdoc. And as I admit, I lived in my lab with my bulldog as a faculty member for other reasons. But I get it when you're a graduate student, you're poor, but yes.

2 (2h 14m 14s):
And so I used to, I used to go to the sauna before going into the lab and I would, and I would, I started noticing that I was all of a sudden able to handle stress better, like the stress of my six month setback because of failed experiment, which is crushing on top of the pressure from your advisor, my advisor and my own pressure. Cause I'm very competitive with myself. And I put a lot of pressure on myself. So I was having a hard time. I mean, I was very stressed out in graduate school and the sauna started to really noticeably affect my anxiety and my ability to handle stress. And I was like, what is going on here?

2 (2h 14m 55s):
So I started looking into the literature and, you know, started getting interested in the effects on the brain. And in fact, at the time I had a friend who was not actually experimentally, but theoretically looking into the, the opioid system. And basically, so when you get in the sauna, you release a lot of endorphins. Endorphins are the feel good hormones, feel good, opioids that, you know, make you feel good, but you also release something called dine orphan. And dynorphins is an endogenous opioid that binds to a receptor called the Kappa opioid receptor, which dynorphins is responsible for that dysphoric feeling when you're in the sauna and you're hot.

2 (2h 15m 36s):
And when you're running, doing exercise and you're like, you feel uncomfortable. Well, I think that's tine warfare. I'm speaking. Absolutely. I think,

0 (2h 15m 45s):
I mean that there's evidence in alcoholics that some of the symptoms of withdrawal that they experience are related to dynorphins and dynorphins is known to negatively impact the dopamine receptor system. So basically it's the feel like garbage pathway,

2 (2h 16m 1s):
Right? You feel like garbage. And so you think that that would not be good, but this is where my, my friend that comes in, he, he was looking at the effects of like treating morphine or heroin addiction and, you know, people that are using those drugs, they basically the endorphins or the, you know, morphine or, you know, heroin, they bind to a receptor in the brain called the mule opioid receptor. And as, as they P they take these drugs that mule, your receptor becomes down-regulated. And so you need more and more of the drug to feel as good as you did. Right. Well, endorphins also bind to that receptor. And he was looking into some of the other, other drugs that are like solving Sal Salvadorian, Salvin Nora or something salvia it's called it, binds to the capita opioid receptor.

2 (2h 16m 49s):
It also makes you kind of feel uncomfortable. Anyways, he had put some studies in front of me that showed basically binding of the, you know, either dynorphins or, you know, whatever Ligon to the Kappa opioid receptor, basically sensitizes the mew opioid receptor to the feel-good endorphins and also changes. I think it also it or something. So basically there's a lasting effect of feeling good. So the endorphins that you release later from hugging someone or a joke you're laughing out or whatever you feel it for longer. Right. And so anyways, this is with the sauna, with respect to the sauna, it's a big sort of hypothesis of mine. I did kind of publish that part of my hypothesis in a review article, but I do, I do wish more people would kind of look into that.

2 (2h 17m 35s):
That'd be amazing. But, but what I was getting at, I think was I would use, I would use the sauna to memorize things. This is way back in the day and I still do it. And I wanted to talk to you about this because your, of your neuro you're a neuroscientist that there's something about being in the sauna. And like, and I think, I don't know if it has to do with the, like the stress response, like when you, when you have an emotional trigger, like you remember things better, right? I mean,

0 (2h 18m 3s):
Absolutely. Th th there is a clear and known explanation for mechanism for this.

2 (2h 18m 8s):
So in the sauna, I mean, you also release norepinephrine, just like you do in the cold. There's a lot of overlap, you know, you're really, you're you, I mean, it is a stressor, but I like use it to remember things like I'm going through something. I want to go through a presentation or a talk or a podcast or whatever. And I go in that sauna and I mean, you should try it. Like, if you haven't already, I don't know if you,

0 (2h 18m 29s):
I have a sauna and Nicole punch now, and I haven't tried prepare, I read books in the sauna in the evening. It's a, it's a time I insist on having my phone out of there mostly cause I initially, because I thought I'd cook the phone, but also just to get some separation from the phone and screens leaving. So I read books, the only challenge, sometimes you're dripping sweat onto the books, but I'm willing to forego a few pages of a book. The, the, the idea that being in this semi stressful environment would aid in the learning and, and retention of information is, is really well substantiated by this beautiful work, by a guy named James McGall. I don't know if his lab is still active, but he was at UC Irvine for awhile. And then I think at a university of Arizona as well, and they have a great memory group at both places, very strong in learning and memory on both places.

0 (2h 19m 15s):
And he was the one that really defined this kind of inverted U shaped function for the relationship between adrenaline and memory. Basically, if you're too relaxed and not stressed enough, you're not going to remember any information at peak levels of stress. You actually are a memory machine, at least within the context of whatever it is you're trying to learn. So it very well, what you're describing is very well matches with that. And then of course it tapers off as you really increase adrenaline to the point where people are starting to lose autonomic function, where they're just, they're, they're panicking basically, but obviously you're keeping it in range. The other thing that I would like to ask you about is in the sauna, of course, there's vasodilation and profusion of blood to the brain is a wonderful way to enhance cognition.

0 (2h 19m 59s):
There's even some really nice data showing that during inhales, as opposed to exhales people are better at learning information, believe it or not during the inhale you're taking in and absorbing and remembering more than during exhales. And these are beautiful studies done in humans, of course. So I can imagine that vasodilation getting more profusion of blood to the brain, plus a little bit of stress, or maybe a lot of stress from the epinephrin and yet it's an, and then of course, there's going to be the, I don't want to call it placebo, but there's going to be the, the context of the condition, place, context of it. Like if we, if we had a good experience remembering something in the sauna, once we tend to the positive association effect of that location is real.

0 (2h 20m 39s):
Just like if people go to a new city and they get robbed, like if you go to Cincinnati, I've never been to Cincinnati, but you get robbed in Cincinnati, your purse gets taken, your wallet gets taken. You kind of hate Cincinnati as, as tourist, but that could happen at any number of different cities, right? The opposite is also true. So if something good happens someplace, I'm imagining that it's a combination of those effects, but I'll start, it would be very hard to, to do this in the cold. I feel like the cold is a very potent address. I think it takes you too far down that curve. The, or

2 (2h 21m 6s):
I have to sing songs or something when I'm in. Oh yeah, I sing

0 (2h 21m 9s):
Songs, but afterward you're very efficient at learning

2 (2h 21m 11s):
After I am. And yeah, with respect to the sauna, the basal dilation does occur. So there's a lot of overlap between moderate intensity, aerobic exercise and heat stress. And as you can imagine, when you're exercising, you're elevating elevating your core body temperature you're you're sweating. And when you're actually in the sauna, blood does get redistributed to the skin to facilitate sweating, but much like exercise blood flow in general is improved to the brain, to the muscles everywhere. So, you know, I think generally speaking that, and, and this, you know, there's studies showing that sauna use is associated with a much lower risk of dementia and Alzheimer's disease. Like people, you know, people that use it four to seven times a week have greater than 60% reduction in dementia and Alzheimer's disease risk.

0 (2h 21m 58s):
Oh, sorry. I didn't mean to cut you off. You said people who use it, I apologize, but maybe you tell us again, people use it four to seven times per week. Have

2 (2h 22m 6s):
They have a greater than 60% reduction in dementia risk and Alzheimer's disease risk compared to people that use it only one time, a week. People that use it two to three times a week, have something like a 20, a little greater than 20% reduction in risk. There's a dose dependent effect on dementia risk and Alzheimer's disease risk. It also has a profound, like there's a, there's a big link between the cardiovascular system and the brain, obviously blood flow, a big one, right? You know, like you need to get blood to your brain, but cardiovascular mortality. So mortality from cardiovascular disease, if people use are actually, this was men. If men use this on a four to seven times a week, it's a 50% reduction in cardiovascular related mortality compared to one time a week.

2 (2h 22m 52s):
Again, dose dependent manner, two to three times a week is something like 24% lower death from cardiovascular disease. There's also lower, you know, sudden cardiac death. So like a heart attack, that's like 60 something greater than 60% lower. If, if men use it four to seven times a week versus once again, a dose dependent thing. And the thing that's so profound there also to me, when, again, looking at the methods, when I look at the data, and this has all worked from Dr. Yari lock-in, he's in the university of Eastern Finland. And just one of the world experts on sauna use, especially with respect to cardiovascular health. What some of his data has also shown is that if you look at the duration, the time spent in the sauna.

2 (2h 23m 34s):
So a lot of the time, so I mentioned the temperature I do is about, I do like 180 9 degrees Fahrenheit. Typically I go in there, I'm pretty heat adapted. And so the more you do, the more you do the sauna or any sort of heat stress, whether it's a hot tub or jacuzzi, you, you become adapted. You're, you're basically start to sweat at a lower core body temperature to cool yourself down. All these sort of physiological changes start to happen earlier. And so I stay in for like 30 minutes, like, I mean, so I stayed a long time. That's a lot, you have to listen to your body. Most of the studies that I just talked about were from the, the duration, the time spent in the sauna, when I said 50% reduction in cardiovascular disease related death, what was shown was that men that were in the sauna for only 11 minutes, even if they used it 47 times a week, that reduction was only like 8% instead of 50, it had to be greater than 19 minutes.

2 (2h 24m 28s):
So like 20 minutes is the sweet spot at about 1 74 degrees Fahrenheit. And so, and most, most of the sun is in Finland, by the way, they're there they're humid. So they, they, they put hot water, hot, not hot. They put water on hot rocks to create steam. And so it's usually between 10 to 20% humidity in the finished Shauna. So those, those studies were, I would say most of the time, you're going to find that their humidity is also elevated, but to me, the, the dose dependent nature of it and the duration, knowing like, you know, to me, that's a very strong data that this is more causal than some, you know, corollary thing, because that's always the problem with observational studies and including these, which they corrected for a whole host of factors like cholesterol, you know, exercise, just everything does everything under the sun.

2 (2h 25m 16s):
I mean, they correct for those. And on top of that, you have the dose dependent nature of the duration, the time spent in the sauna and the frequency. So to me, it's like, something's going on here? Plus there's been studies intervention studies where it's like, you know, comparing directly head to head, moderate intensity aerobic exercise on a stationary cycle to 20 minutes in a sauna there they're physiologically the same things happen. So heart rate elevates while you're doing the activity, blood pressure increases while you're doing the activity. But then after heart rate decreased his resting heart rate decreases below baseline blood pressure is improved. So it decreases below baseline. This is happening the same in moderate intensity cycling versus sauna.

2 (2h 25m 58s):
So again, this sauna like this heat stress, there's something about it that really mimics this moderate intensity aerobic exercise, which is really great for people that can't go for a run that can't even get on a bike. So, you know, disabled people, granted there are some safety concerns there they're pretty mild, but they do exist. You know, so people that had a recent heart attack or have some rare kind of heart disease or problem drinking alcohol, never do that. Elderly people, low prone to low blood blood pressure, always talk to a physician before doing this on it is it is stressful, pregnant, pregnant women. Oh yeah. I definitely avoided saunas when I was pregnant. But the, the it is, I think it's very relevant for disabled people.

2 (2h 26m 39s):
And also people like that are sedentary. I've been sedentary. Most of her life. Like my mother I've been able to kit get her in the sauna because she's not, I mean, I, I did get her on the Peloton ones, but it's really much easier. She feels like it's a spa treatment. And, and it's like, she can listen to her music in there. And like, I care about her health, but she's, she's mostly been a sedentary person. And so I find it much easier to convince her to get in the sauna. Then you get on Peloton. Ideally you do both. The question would be, well, I exercise, I run, I do my high intensity interval training. Why do I need to get in the sauna? And, and the reality is, is, and so I published all this in a, in a review in the experimental gerontology last year, I guess, early or late last year.

2 (2h 27m 23s):
And it basically cardio-respiratory fitness, which is a marker of it's a marker of health car. You know, cardio-respiratory fitness has improved in people that do exercise and sauna compared to exercise alone or sauna alone. So for those healthy fit people out there already exercising, there's a synergistic effect by also adding a sauna into that routine. And to me, that's great. And there's so many beneficial things happening with the, with the heat stress. In addition to like mimicking aerobic exercise, there's the heat shock proteins that we talked about earlier. And those, it kind of brings me back to my early days of science when I was at the Salk Institute for biological studies, doing research on little nematode worms that we, or someone else injected amyloid beta 42, the peptide, the 42 immuno acid peptide that is involved in amyloid plaques, found in the brain correlated with Alzheimer's disease and other brain disorders.

2 (2h 28m 28s):
We injected those into the muscle tissue of worms. And basically these worms become paralyzed with age because the, the, the aggregate aggregated proteins, these proteins aggregate well, he chucked proteins. One of the main things they do is they basically make sure that proteins inside of your cells maintain their proper three-dimensional structure and are folded, right? And so they don't, they're not prone to aggregating and forming these plaques in your arteries and also in the brain. And there's back to my, my, my warm studies I was doing. I would, I would elevate hate shock proteins in this worms. And it would totally, you know, correct the problem where the, the, they would no longer become paralyzed, they'd move around.

2 (2h 29m 10s):
Like they were young. So many animal studies have been done looking at Alzheimer's disease. You know, like I'll, I'll human, like Alzheimer's disease in a rodent. And he chucked proteins protecting from it. You know, so he, chucked proteins are robustly activated in humans. And this has been shown to even, you know, 50% higher over baseline levels after just 30 minutes at 1 63 degrees Fahrenheit in the sauna. So, and they stay activated at least in rodents for, you know, 48 hours, at least. So, you know, having these heat shock proteins around, making sure they're properly taken care of are, are proteins. So they're not aggregating in our brains.

2 (2h 29m 51s):
And in our, in our plaques could be another potential way that saunas protecting from Alzheimer's disease and other, you know, cardiovascular health as well as longevity. So, you know, there's, there's people that have snips in heat shock protein factor, 70 that if they have one of them. So they got one from their parents where they have more active, he chucked protein 70, they live on average one year longer than people that don't have that snip. And if they have two versions, if they got one from their mom and one from their dad, they live on average two years longer than people that don't have that snip. So it's also been associated with human longevity as well as in lower organisms. So you can heat Chuck a worm or a fly, and they live 15% longer. The system worked on by Gordon lift gal at the buck Institute and years and years ago.

2 (2h 30m 36s):
So anyways, I guess what I was getting at was the heat shock proteins are part of that stress response pathway that we talked about earlier. And, you know, they're also activated by cold as well. Cold shock does activate heat, shock proteins, not as robust. So for a free that activates them again. It's one of the reasons I think we should get all of these things because they are more robust inputs. You know, their input activating mechanisms are more robust for, you know, different ones. So there is crosstalk. There is, you know, I mean, I guess I get, it'd be more accurate to say there's overlap, but, but you know, it's also like you want to get the most robust from all of them. Right? I do. So, I mean, that's why I want to do the sauna and exercise and eat myself, you know, my broccoli sprouts and, and all that stuff.

2 (2h 31m 22s):
So,

0 (2h 31m 23s):
Oh, it's super interesting. A couple of, couple of questions came up for me. One is you mentioned these snips, these nucleotide repeats basically genes that some people have more of or less of than others that can predict longevity in some sense, is that the FOXO three pathway?

2 (2h 31m 43s):
That's one that can, yeah. I mean, FOXO three is in fact, if you go back to the warm studies I was talking about, that was like one of the first things. When you see it with your own eyes, you can take these worms that you basically decrease their insulin signaling pathway and their IGF one worms have order called homologous genes. So they have a lot of similarities to humans. They have an insulin like receptor, they have an IGF one like receptor, and they make something like FOXO three, which we have. And basically if you, if you decrease that insulin signaling pathway there for boxer three is always active in those worms. And they, they live like a hundred percent longer. And not only do they live longer, I mean, they are like a very young worm.

2 (2h 32m 25s):
I mean, they are like, you look at this thing and you're like, this looks like the warm that was just born like hours ago. What's going on this thing's at the end of his life. Now, as a, as a side note, the thing that always got me on this was by the way, this was discovered by Cynthia Kenyon. And this was like back in the nineties. And I honestly, I'm not sure that anything has been as exciting in the warm world since then, but I thought it was a really big finding. The only, the only caveat there is that the worms go through this dour, it's called a dour stage when, when this happens, when you decrease their insulin signaling and stuff, and they like go into this like metabolic, Stacy's like, they're not eating as much or moving. And so it's like, okay, well they live a hundred percent longer, but like, they go into this weird state.

0 (2h 33m 8s):
Yeah. I know people like this, some in the longevity community, they know who they are, but they'll get the last laugh because I'll be dead well fed, but dead. And they'll, they'll still be going. So in terms of the, the many data on sauna and, and I also just want to acknowledge these finished groups that did this work is really pioneering, right? When you think 20 years ago, long before social media or any of this, and they're out there up there, I should say, measuring cortisol and growth hormone and all this stuff in, in people getting it now, sauna very, very interesting. So 20 minutes seems like the threshold at 170 degrees Fahrenheit more times per week seems to be better than fewer when th when, in terms of all cause mortality, cardiovascular risk.

0 (2h 33m 57s):
According to what, what I just learned from there

2 (2h 33m 59s):
Would be a good, I think, minimum effective dose

0 (2h 34m 1s):
Four times a week, and you combine it with the cold. I've also seen a protocol where is a very extreme protocol. I don't recommend this to people right off the bat, where they had subject human subjects, get into the sauna for 30 minutes, get out for five 30 minutes, get out for five 30 minutes for a total of two hours of exposure. But that was what led to these massive 16 fold increases in growth hormone. I should have. So I, and they had to do it very seldom. So it sounds like these protocols you're describing 20 minutes done a four times per week are far more reasonable for most people to access. But I know people are probably desperate to know what if they don't have a sauna. You know, a sauna is kind of a unique item. So I have a couple of questions.

0 (2h 34m 42s):
Can people use hot baths and with the appropriate warning, of course, that without getting into description of the mechanics and the underlying biology, it's pretty obvious that the testes, if they get too warm, you'll, you'll kill sperm. That's the reason why the testes are housed in a structure called the scrotum that can move around. So just to be, you know, Erie, our biologists, just talking about realities here. So if you're trying to conceive children or keep your sperm, healthy guys should probably stay out of warm hot bath

2 (2h 35m 13s):
For at least six months. That's been shown. So, so sperm production. So sperm motility goes down and sperm production goes down, but that is completely re re corrected if they stay out of the sauna for six months. So three, six months later, it's back to normal.

0 (2h 35m 28s):
Great. That's very useful information. I'm sure to a number of people out there. So there, if people don't have access to a sauna and we get this about coal too, you always say, what about cold showers? And I always say, well, the studies may have mainly been done on immersion because it's hard to keep things controlled in cold showers. It's just, doesn't make for a very good experiment because how you get a bigger person, less of them is under the shower. And so it doesn't make for a good experiment. So it's a, it's not as good as immersion, but with the, with heat, I could imagine that a hot bath we work almost as well.

2 (2h 35m 58s):
Yeah. So there's been some studies looking at, for example, activation of heat, shock proteins, also brain drive, neurotrophic factor increases with heat stress. And so the SA the hot bath at around 104 degrees Fahrenheit, which is typically what studies will use for temperature, which is actually cooler than what I cracked my bath hot. It's so hot.

0 (2h 36m 16s):
You're very heated adapted.

2 (2h 36m 18s):
I'm very adapted. Yeah. And it's 20 minutes from the shoulders down. And that is like a very robust activation of heat shock proteins and in brain drive neurotrophic factor. And then he checked proteins are also protecting against muscle atrophy. So that's also having to do with the protein structure in the muscle tissue as well. And this has been studies in animal animal data, as well as some recent human data, as well as local hyperthermia or local heat treatment. But essentially it showed that it protected. I mean, it was like there was a study where they were looking at muscle disuse and it was, it was something like the local heat treatment prevented like almost 40% of the muscle atrophy from Desia. So like, and it's funny, cause I used to use this on and when I was injured and stuff, I would go in the sauna because I, I like, I, I didn't know at the time because I was graduate student, but I knew like, just from experiments that like, you know, like I'm not losing as much muscle.

2 (2h 37m 10s):
I feel better. Like I, you know, like at the time I had that was reading a little about the growth hormone and stuff back then, but, and I knew about he chucked proteins. And so I kind of knew, but that data wasn't around yet. And so now we have the data and I've always like, felt like I wasn't losing my muscle. Like I should have been when I was doing this on and I was doing it literally seven days a week. It was like, hardcore,

0 (2h 37m 34s):
This is also during graduate school.

2 (2h 37m 35s):
Yeah. Now, now I'm doing, I'm doing the sauna, like a bare bare minimum I do three, but I try to do four because of the, it all depends on my schedule. I also like to do long runs. I really it's like long being like three miles, not like campaigns long, but I really, for me and I, we were talking about this earlier. Like off-camera that the runs for me are, are for my brain. And I get this mind wandering effect where I daydream. And I think about things. I work through problems. I get creative, I come up with ideas and this is all happening on the runs. And, and so I, I just, I, I, I miss my runs if I don't do them and I miss it because of the brain effects I get from it.

2 (2h 38m 19s):
And when I exercise, I, it's funny because I'm a female and you think that I'd be exercising, you know, to stay fit and in shape. And, you know, I care about my figure, but when I exercise, literally what I'm thinking about is my brain. And I'm like, this is the best longevity, longevity drug there is. This is it right here, Rhonda, like you, you're always wondering, you're always wanting to know, you're wanting to do the best. Like if you don't exercise, you're missing that essential dose. And so that for me is, is, is the motivation, the doping seeking thing I'm looking for, admittedly, I need to, I do not do enough strength training and I have to do it, have to have to have to I'm like, I'm just I'm. So after the endurance and the hit and I, and I really need to add that in because muscle mass is also extremely important for aging as well.

2 (2h 39m 4s):
You know? So that's, that's my, that's my fault.

0 (2h 39m 6s):
Well, the, the brain effects are really interesting. I also run, I try and get one longer run per week and a few other runs and I do it without a phone. I'd only listen to podcasts. I casually will listen to music, but I really try not to. I also find that my mind solves problems. It, I feel like it, it washes out the cobwebs, so to speak some of the most brilliant and prolific neuroscientists that I know who've had very long careers. Eric Kendall, Nobel prize winner at Columbia comes to mind for all his work on memory, used to swim a mile a day. And now I think swims half a mile a day, but he's in his late nineties and he's still sharp, which is incredible. And his lab has done some work showing that any load bearing exercise repeated.

0 (2h 39m 50s):
So endurance work, unlike the Peloton or cycling, that's really load bearing all the yurts, cycling really hard with the resistance, but causes the release of osteocalcin from the bones, which acts in an endocrine way, sort of like a hormone can actually travel to the hippocampus. And at least in these animal studies induce the proliferation of neurons growth of synopses, BDNF, a number of downstream things, which kind of makes sense if we were to put a, just so evolutionary story on, on this, you know, a body that's active can signal to the brain that the body still needs. Cognition, you know, an inactive body in some ways is depriving the brain of any signal of what the body is doing, right?

0 (2h 40m 30s):
This is obviously I'm making this up as, as, as conjecture, but we know in ocean and various ocean animals that they'll swim around for some period of their life. And then they'll have a completely stationary portion of their life. And basically the brain degenerate there, you don't need much of a nervous system if you're not moving. So I think there's really something there. And also just letting your, the ideas in mind, drift. I love that you, and I appreciate that you shared your protocols because I think right now, we're in an interesting time in public health information history where people are just kind of getting bombarded with cold is good. Heat is gold. Is it cold? Is good. Heat is good. Excuse me. I misspoke. There are all these micronutrients and of course, macronutrients are important too.

0 (2h 41m 12s):
And today you really enriched us with the description of the underlying mechanisms and the logic behind them, but also sharing what you do is really informative because I think people need a jumping off place and obviously they need to start someplace and getting heat adapted, et cetera. It takes time. But I really appreciate that. You're willing to share your protocols and that you do the things that you, that you teach and educate people about as a final question, because I have half half to ask red light sauna or no red lights on. I've been a little bit vocal about my feelings that none of the red lights on as I've ever been in got hot enough. And it was frustrating. That's all I got.

0 (2h 41m 52s):
I feel like it's neither here nor there. However, I do acknowledge that red light and low-level light therapies are now known to do a number of interesting things was a Nobel prize in 1908 for phototherapy, for lupus. So, you know, it's not like a new thing. The idea that red light and light could do things positive for our biology, but do you have a red light in your sauna? Do you think it's useful? And I mentioned this because this is the number one question I get about sauna red light or no red light or some, some intermediate answer.

2 (2h 42m 22s):
So I don't have a, an infrared sauna, but I do have, like, I have a sauna that has lights. It makes red light, but I don't think it's the red light that you're talking about. It's not activating it at a specific wavelength, which is

0 (2h 42m 35s):
It's usually, so that the range that seems to be helpful. And I have, I confess I use a red light panel for other things is 670 nanometer out to about 720 nanometre. So it looks like red and very dim pant lights, dim red and bright red. And the idea is that red light can travel. The photon and energy is such that it can travel down through the deep layers of the dermis of the skin.

2 (2h 43m 3s):
I, you know, I, I don't have a red light in my sauna. I don't know if it's essential or not. I don't think so. Based all the studies I've talked about. I think that would be, it is a, you know, the, the, the potential effect on mitochondria is interesting. I do think there's a lack of really good solid evidence in humans, but that might only be because it's just not studied enough. And that's usually the case. So perhaps, you know, like there's the juve, right? The juve ha they have those pant red light panels and stuff,

0 (2h 43m 35s):
And cozy are the two ones I know cozy and Jew they're there. As far as I know, I'm probably going to insult both companies at the same time, but I'd rather insult them both at the same time than, than just compliment one or insult one. Both of them seem excellent for getting the appropriate wavelengths of red light. And I do not have a relationship either.

2 (2h 43m 52s):
Yeah, well, I, I personally think that the, the sauna in and of itself it's about the heat stress. And typically the question I get is infrared sauna or regular sauna. And there are some differences as well. Infrared saunas, maybe the infrared saunas are the ones that have the red light that you're talking about. Infrared saunas only get up to around 140 degrees Fahrenheit. So as I mentioned, the studies were about 1 74 degrees Fahrenheit. And so you really have to stay in a longer period of time. However, there have been some studies coming out of Japan. They, they use infrared sauna. If this whole protocol it's called way on therapy and they, they, they, they get people in infrared saunas, and then they wrap them in a towel and like, they stay warm for X amount.

2 (2h 44m 39s):
So it's like the whole protocol ends up being like an hour long, but again, it's 140 degrees Fahrenheit. So it's an infrared sauna and it's been shown to improve a variety of like coronary heart disease and conditions. Heart-related conditions. Like there've been some improvements. So obviously there's, there's evidence that infrared saunas can be beneficial for cardiovascular health. I do. I've used infrared sauna as many times that my, my in-laws, they have an infrared sauna and I have to crank that thing up for a while until it's maxed. And then I have to sit in there for an hour. At least I do sweat a lot. And that's another thing we didn't talk about. You do sweat some heavy metals in some, some heavy metals are excreted predominantly through sweat and others through urine.

2 (2h 45m 22s):
So, so for example, cadmium, there's like 125 fold increase in cadmium, excretion from sweat. When you get in the sauna also lead is something like 17 fold, excretions higher. Another one is aluminum. It's about four fold higher. So infrared, you do sweat a lot too. And not because the different main differences that you're heating your body up through thermal radiation versus the ambient hair air, like a, a standard, you know, sauna is a heater and the heater heating up the air and, and that's how you're heating yourself up. So it is a little bit of a different mechanism. I prefer regular saunas. Most of the data out there from, from the heat stress itself, like the, your heart rates elevating when you're in there, you're feeling hot.

2 (2h 46m 4s):
You're getting that cardiovascular. I mean, that's what you're feeling when you're in a hot sauna. And that for me takes really long time in the infrared sauna I get at the very end, but I do think there are some benefits from infrared and they are more affordable. They're less of a fire hazard, but again, hot baths are I think, a good alternative modality for heat stress compared to like a regular sauna. So

0 (2h 46m 26s):
Great. That's a really helpful answer. I, like I said, I use the red light, but not in the sauna. And, and thank you for reminding us of that 174 degree Fahrenheit threshold that was mainly used in all these studies. So we covered a lot of territory, but I just want to thank you again. It was extremely thorough and extremely informative. I now have my notes are always look a little bit like they were drawn out by a macaque monkey who has no knowledge of the English language, but I can decipher this to tell you that there are at least 10 additions to my current protocols that I'm going to add, and I'll have lots of questions. So I apologize in advance for that, but I'll be half of the listeners and just directly from me.

0 (2h 47m 10s):
Thank you so much for your time. I learned a ton.

2 (2h 47m 13s):
My pleasure. Thanks for having on it. It was really awesome conversation. So I enjoyed it a lot.

0 (2h 47m 18s):
Let's do it again.

2 (2h 47m 19s):
Totally

0 (2h 47m 20s):
Great. Thank you for joining me for my discussion with Dr. Rhonda Patrick. I hope you found it as interesting and as actionable as I did once again, if you'd like to learn more about Dr. Patrick's work, sign up for her newsletter and to listen to her excellent podcast, go to found my fitness.com. You'll find links to the newsletter as well as the podcast there. Or you can go direct to the podcast by going to found my fitness on YouTube, found my fitness on apple, or found my fitness on Spotify. And once again, the newsletter is found my fitness.com/newsletter. If you're enjoying and or learning from the human lab podcast, please subscribe to our YouTube channel. That's a terrific zero cost way to support us. In addition, please subscribe to the podcast on both Spotify and apple and on apple, you have the opportunity to leave us up to a five-star review.

0 (2h 48m 8s):
If you have suggestions of topics or guests or feedback of any kind, please put that in the comment section on our YouTube page. In addition, please check out. The sponsors mentioned at the beginning of today's podcast, that's the best way to support this podcast. We also have a Patrion it's patrion.com/andrew Huberman. And there you can support the podcast at any level that you like

Momentous (2h 48m 30s):
as also mentioned at the beginning of the episode, we are now partnering with momentous supplements. So if you go to live momentous.com/huberman, you'll find what we firmly believe to be the highest quality supplements available in the specific dosages that match the peer reviewed science and recommendations made on various episodes of the Huberman lab podcast. You'll also find specific protocols of how much to take and when, what time of day, what time of night, et cetera. And you also find behavioral tools that can synergize with those supplements. Many of you will also be pleased to learn that momentous supplements of course, ships within the United States, but also internationally.

0 (2h 49m 6s):
If you're not already following us on Instagram and Twitter, please do so. It's Herberman lab on both Instagram and Twitter there. I teach science and science-based tools, some of which overlap with the content of the Huberman lab podcast, but much of which is distinct from the content of the Huberman lab podcast. Thank you once again, for joining me for my discussion with Dr. Rhonda Patrick, and as always thank you for your interest in science.