0 (0s):
Welcome to the Huberman lab podcast, where we discuss science and science-based tools for everyday life. I'm Andrew Huberman, and I'm a professor of neurobiology and ophthalmology at Stanford school of medicine. Today, I have the pleasure of introducing Dr. Dunkin French as my guest on the Huberman lab podcast, Dr. French is the vice president of performance at the UFC performance Institute. And he has over 20 years of experience working with elite professional and Olympic athletes prior to joining the UFC. French was the director of performance science at the university of Notre Dame, and he has many, many quality peer reviewed studies to his name, exploring for instance, how the particular order of exercise, whether or not one performs endurance exercise prior to resistance training or vice versa, how that impacts performance of various movements and endurance training protocols, as well as the impact on hormones, such as testosterone, estrogen, and some of the stress hormones such as cortisol.

0 (1m 1s):
He's also done fascinating work exploring how neuro-transmitters things like dopamine, and epinephrin also called adrenaline can impact hormones and our hormones can impact neurotransmitter release. What's particularly unique about Dr. French's work is that he's figured out specific training protocols that can maximize, for instance, testosterone output, or reduce stress hormone output in order to maximize the effects of training in the short-term and in the longterm. So today you're going to learn a lot of protocols, whether or not you're into resistance training or endurance training, you will learn for instance, how to regulate the duration of your training and the type of training that you do in order to get the maximum benefit from that training over time.

0 (1m 46s):
So whether or not you are somebody who just exercises recreationally for your health, whether or not you're an amateur or professional athlete or whether or not you're just trying to maximize your health through the use of endurance and or resistance training today's discussion, we'll have a wealth of takeaways for you. There are only a handful of people working at the intersection of elite performance, mechanistic science, and that can do so in a way that leads to direct immediately applicable protocols that anybody can benefit from. Dr. French also provides some incredibly important insights about the direction that sport and exercise are taking in the world today and their applications towards performance and health.

0 (2m 27s):
Before we begin, I'd like to emphasize that this podcast is separate from my teaching and research roles at Stanford. It is however, part of my desire and effort to bring zero cost to consumer information about science and science related tools to the general public in keeping with that theme,

ROKA (2m 42s):
I'd like to thank the sponsors of today's podcast. Our first sponsor is Roca. Rocha makes eyeglasses and sunglasses that are of the absolute, highest quality I've spent my career working on the visual system. And I can tell you that everything about the way that Roca, eyeglasses and sunglasses were designed was with performance in mind. First of all, they're extremely lightweight. So you actually forget that you're wearing the most of the time. Second of all, even if you get sweaty, if you're running or biking or it's a hot day or running around, just happened to be perspiring quite a lot, they don't slip off your face, which is terrific. They also have a great aesthetic and they have a lot of different styles to choose from. The clarity of the lenses is superb. I don't think there's a match for the clarity of Roca glasses out there. And if there is, I'm not aware of it, they are absolutely crystal clear. And that's true in any environment, whether or not you're working in a dim environment or a bright environment. The clarity is unmatched. If you'd like to try Roca, eyeglasses or sunglasses, you can go to roca.com. That's R O K a.com and enter the code Huberman to save 20% off. Your first order

Helix (3m 44s):
today's episode is also brought to us by helix sleep. Helix sleep makes mattresses and pillows that are uniquely tailored to your sleep needs. All of us have unique sleep needs, and we should be sleeping on a mattress. That's ideal for us. If you go to the helix site, they have a quick two minute quiz ask you a number of questions about whether or not you sleep on your side, your back, your stomach. Do you tend to run hot or cold, et cetera, maybe you don't have the answers to those questions, which is fine. They'll match you to the mattress. That's ideal for your sleep needs. I took that quiz. And about 10 months ago, I started sleeping on the dusk helix mattress. That's D U S K that's the mattress that's ideal for me, and I'm sleeping better than I ever have before. So if you're interested in upgrading your mattress, go to helix, sleep.com/huberman, take their two minute sleep quiz and they'll match you to a customized mattress and you'll get up to $200 off all mattress orders and two free pillows. That's helix sleep.com/huberman.

Headspace (4m 37s):
Today's episode is also brought to us by Headspace. Headspace is a meditation app. That's backed by 25 published studies by now. I think most people have heard about or experienced the benefits of meditation, improve focus, better sleep, reduce stress, more creativity, and insight. There's just so many studies out there that support those claims. The challenge, however, is sticking to a meditation practice. And over the years, I confess there have been times when I've meditated regularly. And then I stopped meditating, even though it always provides benefits for me, the first time I do it. And every time I do it with the Headspace app, it makes it very easy to meditate consistently because they have different types of meditations to select from, and they come in different durations. So sometimes I only have three or four minutes to meditate. They have those sorts of meditations. They also have longer meditations of 20 minutes or more. If you want to try Headspace, you can go to headspace.com/special offer. And if you do that, you'll get a free one-month trial with headspaces full library of meditations that you can use in any situation. This is the best deal offer by Headspace right now. So again, if you're interested, go to headspace.com/special offer.

0 (5m 43s):
And now my conversation with Dr. Dunkin, French Duncan, French. Great to see you again, flight wise.

2 (5m 49s):
Likewise, thank you. And don't often have many Stanford professors in the performance Institute, so I'm really,

0 (5m 55s):
Oh, well, this place is amazing and you have a huge role in making it what it is the reason I'm so excited to talk with you is that you're one of these rare beasts that you have been involved in human performance and athletic performance. At the collegiate level, you are obviously very involved in MMA now in the UFC performance Institute. And you also had the fortunate experience. I like to think of doing a PhD in what exactly was the PhD in. It was exercise physiology, physiology. So you're familiar also with designing studies control groups, all the sorts of things that in my opinion, anyway, are kind of lacking from the internet social media version of exercise science, which is that people throw out all sorts of ideas about how people should be training, what they should be doing and eating and not eating and doing.

0 (6m 49s):
And certainly science doesn't have all the answers, but I just think it's so rare to find somebody that's at the convergence of all those different fields. And so I have a lot of questions for you today that I'm sure the audience are going to be really excited.

2 (7m 2s):
Well, listen, I mean, I appreciate that. It's very humbling and yeah, I've worked hard to get to where I am, but I've always tried to be authentic. And I think authenticity comes alongside, you know, academic rigor and objectivity and insight and knowledge base, right? At the end of the day, it's about having confidence, having expertise and being able to deliver that expertise to, to in my world, to athletes. And I think, and that's what I've always tried to do. I've tried to have many strings to my bow so that I can talk with many different hats on, you know, one day I'm talking to a coach next day, I'm talking to an athlete the next day, I'm talking to a CEO the next day, I'm talking to a, you know, an academic professor and, you know, so I think, you know, being able to wear those different hats is certainly a skill set that I've tried to, to build throughout my career.

2 (7m 49s):
And, you know, like I said, I've been blessed to work with, I think it was 36 different professional or Olympic sports last time I counted. So yeah, it's been, it's been a wild ride. It's been great.

0 (7m 60s):
Which of those sports was the most unusual

2 (8m 3s):
I've worked with crown green bowling, which I don't know as an American guy, I don't know whether, you know, that part of it basically imagine a, you know, a 20 foot by 20 foot square of turf with a, a small raise in the middle I E the crown. So it's, it, it slopes to the edges. And then, you know, you use, you, you, you throw out a white jacket, a smaller ball, and then you smartly sort of roll out larger balls to try and get closest to the jackets. It's a very European thing let's say, but yeah, sports performance, a crown green bowl, and there you go. Okay.

0 (8m 38s):
Wow. And then two mixed martial arts fighters and everything in between. So along those lines of, can you give us a little bit of your background? You know, where'd you start out, where are you from originally?

2 (8m 49s):
Yeah. I'm from the Northeast of England. So I'm from a town called Harrogate, which is in Yorkshire, which is a Northern kind of area of

0 (8m 57s):
<inaudible> all year long.

2 (8m 59s):
Yeah. You can imagine. Yeah. With the two weeks of some of that we get, you know, but yeah, I mean, I did my, my undergraduate studies there in sports science say, you know, I did teacher training to be a physical education teacher after that, like most people are then, you know, worked as a high school, physical education teacher, you know, great experience working with kids, you know, developing, you know, athletic qualities, but something in the back of my mind, always, you know, I wanted more, I wanted to be, you know, to be at the higher end of elite sport. And, you know, I was a failed athlete. Like many people, I am representing my country in, in different sports and things, but I never made it professionally. So, you know, that that little seed was sown in as much as I then started to reach out to, you know, to different areas, to do a PhD, whether it was in the UK or also, you know, chance my arm took upon, see if we could get over to the states.

2 (9m 50s):
I mean, all my buddies were going on, you know, gap years after the finish university or whatever, and, and going to Bali and hanging out or whatever, traveling through Thailand. And I figured, well, you know, I I've always loved the states and can I go and kill two birds with one stone and do something academic, continue my studies and, but also doing a different environment and get some life, life experience in them, many, many rejections, as I'm sure you kind of aware from different professors, whether it was Roger a Noecker or, you know, William Kramer wrote to these folks just cold, cold, cold, and, and send out information and saying, yeah. So have you got any opportunities pushed from more, but you know, dug it and kept, kept asking. And yeah.

2 (10m 30s):
Dr. William Kramer, who was at ball state university in Indiana at the time, you know, a muscle neuroendocrinologist and researcher in muscle physiology using resistance training, you know, he basically said, listen, I can guarantee your funding for the first year of your studies, but not the next three times.

0 (10m 45s):
I was like a typical academic response. I can take care of you, but not that well necessarily, right.

2 (10m 51s):
I spoke to my parents and said, Hey, can we, can we take a point? And that, you know, they were great in supporting me. And yeah, long story short came out to, to begin my PhD at ball state after a year, Dr. Kramer transferred to Yukon, you know, Connecticut and stores in the Northeast there. And I transferred to him and with him and yeah, four great years with my, with my PhD and getting my PhD with a, with a really prolific research group that looked at, you know, neuroendocrinology hormonal work, but using a resistance training, primarily as an exercise stressor as a major mechanism, and then looking at all the different physiologies off the back of resistance training,

0 (11m 30s):
Enormously productive, I found dozens of papers on how weight training impacts hormones and your name is on all of them. And it's remarkable. I have a question about this. I'll just inject a question about weight training and hormones. You hear this all the time that doing these big, heavy compound movements or resistance training increases, androgens things like testosterone, DHT, DHA, and so forth. Does anyone know how that actually happens? Like what about mood? What about in, what is it about engaging motor neurons under heavy loads sends a signal to the endocrine system, Hey, release testosterone.

0 (12m 10s):
I've never actually been able to find that in a textbook. Yeah. Well, I mean, and how can I do more of that?

2 (12m 17s):
Yeah. As much as I know, you know, and again, I'm digging out into the annals of Dunkin. Frenchy's kind of brain now, but yeah. I mean, I think it's the stress response, right? It's mechanical stress and it's metabolic stress. And these are, you know, downstream regulation of testosterone release at the gonads comes from many different areas. You know, th there, my work primarily looked at, you know, catecholomines and, and, and sympathetic arousal.

0 (12m 41s):
So like epinephrin adrenaline,

2 (12m 43s):
Rex, epinephrin adrenaline, you know, noradrenaline how they were signaling the signaling cascade using the HPA axis, releasing cortisol, and then, you know, looking at how that also influenced the adrenal medulla to release, you know, androgens and then signal in that, the gonads

0 (13m 3s):
That raises an interesting question. So in presumably weight training in women, people who don't have testes will also, it increases testosterone. And is that purely through the adrenals when women lift weights, their adrenal glands release to

2 (13m 17s):
Absolutely. I mean, that is the only area of testosterone release for females, and yes, it's the same downstream cascade. Obviously the extent to which it happens is, is significantly less than females, but that's how there's good, good data out there that shows, you know, females can increase their anabolic environment, their internal anabolic, <inaudible> using resistance training as a stressor, and then they get the consequent muscle tissue growth. You know, whether it's tendon, ligament, adaptations, you know, the, the, the beneficial consequences of resistance training, which is driven by anabolic stimuli.

0 (13m 49s):
I have two questions about that. The first one is something that you mentioned, which is that the, the androgens, the testosterone comes from the adrenals under resistance loads in women is the same true in men. I mean, we hear that the testes produce testosterone when we weight train for, for men that have testes, but D do we know whether or not it's the adrenals or the testes in men that are increasing testosterone more, both a little bit from each

2 (14m 16s):
The field is divided presently in as much as understanding the acute, a dream, the acute androgen adrenergic response in terms of, you know, anabolic response to exercise in an acute phase and the exposure to, you know, a stimulus that is stress driven, which might be partly from the adrenal glands, partly from the gonads versus a longer tuneable exposure to anabolic environments, which is primarily driven by obviously the gonads and the release of the endocrine environment from, from testosterone release at the gonads. So this, the, the field is split in terms of exercise is promoting hypertrophy muscle tissue growth.

2 (14m 56s):
And whether that is very much a, an adrenal stimuli, or if that's significant enough in these acute responses versus the longitudinal exposure, just elevated basal levels of, of anabolic tents, testosterone, a bit level,

0 (15m 11s):
It sounds like in most cases, like with most things, it's probably both, it's probably the adrenals and the gonads. And then you mentioned that testosterone can have enhancing effects or growth effects on tendon and ligament also that you don't often hear about that. People always think, you know, testosterone muscle, but to SaaS throne has a lot of effects on other tissues that are important for performance. It sounds like, can you, yeah, what's this?

2 (15m 34s):
Yeah, absolutely. I mean, I think, you know, the, the, the testosterone hormone is it, I mean, listen to, is androgen receptors on neural tissue on neural axons, pretty much everywhere. Exactly. So, you know, it, the binding capacity of testosterone and influence in different tissues within the body, I touched on, you know, muscle tissue, but, you know, the, the ligaments, the tendons, and even bone to, to some extent, you know, testosterone is, has potential to influence that in terms of removing osteopenic kind of characteristics, et cetera. So, yeah, it's, it's a, it's a, a magic and magic hormone let's say, and with many, many, and, and impacts in terms of adaptation.

0 (16m 13s):
And I definitely want to get back to your trajectory, but as long as we're on the interactions between androgens, just Australian and its derivatives and different tissues, you know, from the work that you did as a PhD student and, and throughout your career, could you say that there's a, there are some general principles of training that favor testosterone production in terms of that, that somebody who's not an elite athlete could use somebody who's already adapted to weight training, somewhat like they know the difference between a dumbbell and a barbell. And they know they know the various movements. They're not going to damage themselves, but once they're doing that, I mean, I've heard shorter sessions are better than longer sessions, but in rep loads with that, there's a lot of parameter space.

0 (16m 54s):
But if you are going to throw out some of the, the parameters that you think are most important to pay attention to for the typical person, who's trying to use weight training to build or maintain muscle yeah. Lose body fat. So body recomposition and, or stay strong and healthy for sport of a different kind.

2 (17m 13s):
So the work that we obviously, you know, I was exposed to backing my PhD. It, it was a double-edged sword. And as much as testosterone is really stimulated by an intensity factor and also a volume factor now growth hormone is a little bit different. That's largely driven by an intensity factor.

0 (17m 29s):
Oh, really? I always thought the growth hormone was driven my volume, which just goes to show you. No, no, no, no. I think you're probably right with just goes to show you that most of what's out there on the internet is completely right. Not only, not only is it wrong, it's usually backwards. So no trust, I trust your instinct because, because I think people just make this stuff up, right. Because it's very hard measure, growth, hormone and testosterone. And, and I'm, can't imagine most of the, the stuff that I see out there they're taking drips and, and, you know, measuring free versus bound and all this kind of stuff, but that's what you do in, in laboratory.

2 (18m 2s):
Yeah. You, you look at total composition and you look at how much of that is free circulating in the system. How much is bound and therefore biologically active bound to receptors creating adaptation. But yeah, coming back to testosterone in terms of the training strategies, it's largely driven by boasting an intensity and a volume factor. So if you look at many of the exercise interventions that we use to try and investigate and interrogate testosterone, it was, it was usually, you know, a six by 10 protocol. So you touch in by 10, meaning six sets of 10 repetitions, which is quite a large, you know, 60 repetitions is quite a large volume for a single exercise.

2 (18m 42s):
And that was usually pitched at about 80% intense, over one repetition maximum.

0 (18m 46s):
Okay. So 80% of the one rep max six, six sets of 10 reps separated by rest of two minutes, two minutes, which is actually pretty fast, at least to me at anytime you see the two to three minutes when you're actually watching the clock, those two minute rest periods go by pretty fast, but

2 (19m 1s):
The third fourth set you you're dying for more. Yeah. And I think, you know, we, you know, we, we formulated that kind of exercise protocol to really target, you know, the, the release of testosterone and try and drive up these anabolic environment to study the, you know, the endocrine, you know, consequences. But I think that's, that's, that's the type of protocol that is most advantageous for driving anabolic environment. And that

0 (19m 25s):
Was it for the workout. Yeah.

2 (19m 27s):
I mean, we, we would do that in a back squat. So, you know, multi-joint, you know, challenging exercise, multi muscle, multi-joint 80% load of your one repetition max. And then six by 10, we did play around with, you know, your classic German volume type 10 by 10 kind of protocols, but they were just unsustainable at that 80%. The key to what we also did was we always adjusted the loads to make sure that it was 10 repetitions that were sustained. So if the load was too too high and an athlete or participant had to drop the weights on the six repetition, we would unload the bar and make sure they completed the 10 repetitions, bringing me back to the point of it's an intensity and a volume derivative that that is going to be most advantageous for testosterone release.

0 (20m 14s):
That's really interesting. And one thing that you mentioned there is especially interesting to me, which is, you said when you go from six rep sets of 10 repetitions to 10 sets of 10 repetitions, you it's not as beneficial and might even be counterproductive. But to me, the difference between six and 10 sets is only four sets. It doesn't even sound that much. So that sort of hints at the possibility that the thresholds for going from a workout that increases testosterone to a workout that diminishes testosterone is actually a pretty narrow more.

2 (20m 43s):
Yeah. And I think it comes back to that intensity factor then, you know, what, what we saw, but 10 by 10 protocol really sees pretty significant drop-offs in the load. And again, we're trying to stimulate with intensity with mechanical strain through intensity, as well as metabolic strain through volume. And I think that's, that's the paradigm that you've got to look at is that the mechanical load has to come from, you know, the, the volume, the actual weight on the bar and the volume is, is the metabolic stimulus. How much are we driving lactate? How much are we driving? You know, glycogenolysis in, in, in terms of that type of energy system for, you know, executing a 10 by 10 protocol. And what we often saw was just a significant reduction in the intensity capabilities of a, of an athlete to sustain that.

2 (21m 27s):
So we shortened the volume to try and maintain the intensity.

0 (21m 33s):
Interesting. And you could imagine just taking very long rest, keeping the session, being a big, lazy bear in training. I sometimes do this. I tell myself I'm going to work out for 45 minutes and then two hours later, I'm done, but not because I was huffing and puffing the whole time, but because I was training really slowly, right. Is there any evidence that training slowly can offset some of the negative effects of doing a lot of volume?

2 (21m 55s):
It's an old adage of, you know, two responses to your question. I mean, the first one, I would say, you know, there's a difference between 10 sets of six and six sets of 10. And I think that comes back to the volume conversation. You know, six sets of 10 is driving up metabolic stimulus. If, if you're doing 10 sets of six, you can probably take it to a higher intensity, but you're not going to get the same metabolic load. You're not going to get the same internal metabolic environment that drives a lactate release, that they will then signal, you know, further anabolic testosterone release because of the lactate in your body. That that's a key consideration. The rest is often the consideration that's overlooked out there in general population.

2 (22m 37s):
And in many sports in environments, you know, that the rest is, is as important a program and variable as the load and the intense, the intensity, the load, the volume, et cetera. And yes, if you remove, if you extend the volume, if you extend the, the duration of your rest periods, what you're ultimately doing is influencing that metabolic stimulus. Again, you're allowing the flushing of the body, the removal of waste products, you know, lactate to be, you know, removed from the body and then the metabolic environment is reduced.

0 (23m 6s):
So you want, so if I, if I understand correctly, you want to create a metabolic stress. So, so the way that I've been training slow and lazy is not necessarily the best way to go. I could, I could, in theory, do a 45 or 60 minute session where I pack in more, more work per unit time. I'm not going to be able to quote unquote perform as well. I won't be able to lift as much. I don't have to, you know, unweight the bar between sets, or maybe even during sets, if I have someone who could do that, but it sounds like that's the way to go. So it's gotta be, so this, the old adage of high intensity short duration is probably the way to go. Correct.

2 (23m 43s):
And, and, you know, in, in, in layman's terms, if the same objective, the same training goal is just muscle tissue growth, and we're not talking about maximal strength or any of those types of parameters. We're just talking about growing muscle. If there's an athlete, a and they do six, six sets of 10 with two minutes rest, and there's athlete B that does six sets of 10 with three minutes, let rest athlete a, will likely see the highest muscle gains muscle hypertrophy gains because of the metabolic stimulus that they're driving with the shorter rest periods.

0 (24m 11s):
If we're all the years that I've spent exploring exercise science and trying to get this information from the internet and various places that this is the first time it's ever been told to me clearly. So basically I need to put my ego aside and I need to not focus so much on getting as many reps with a given weight and keep the rest restricted to about two minutes, get the work in, and then I'll derive the benefits.

2 (24m 38s):
I mean, you've absolutely nailed it to be honest. And again, if you think about human nature and how we approach, we're inherently lazy, right? As, as, as, as humans, we want to, you know, we want to take that rest. We want to take the time out to recover and feel refreshed, but we're trying to create a training stimulus. We're trying to create a very specific stimulus internal to the body. And that is often driven by the metabolic environment at that moment in time. Now, if we allow the Medica Bolic environment to change by extending the rest periods, we're not going to see as beneficial gains at the end of it. So it is a, it is very much a motivational and ego thing rather than saying, okay, I'm going to push my loads as high as I can, and really challenge maximum strength.

2 (25m 20s):
Do fewer repetitions, take longer periods of time. It's a completely different approach to training. It's a different end goal.

0 (25m 26s):
Interesting. And you mentioned lactate, so it seems still a bit controversial as to what actually triggers hypertrophy. You hear about lactate buildup or people that the common language is the muscle gets torn and then repairs, but I don't know, does the muscle actually tear, I mean,

2 (25m 42s):
Microtrauma disruption of, you know, the Mike within the muscle tissue.

0 (25m 46s):
Interesting. And we're talking now about non drug assisted people. Who's, who's, let's just say let's define our terms. Here are that whose testosterone levels are within the, the, the range of somewhere between 300 and 1500 or whatever, 1200, because it does seem that athletes who take high levels of exogenous androgens can do more work and just get protein synthesis from just doing work. You know, I've seen these guys in the gym, right? That, that hotel signs are not that hard to spot where they're just doing a ton of volume, not necessarily moving that much weight, they're just bringing blood into the, into the tissue. And then they're loading up on, they're eating a ton of protein, presumably because they're basically in puberty part 15, right.

0 (26m 29s):
They've got in their 15th round of puberty where during puberty, you are approaching synthesis machine. I mean, that's, to me that that's a pretty clear about puberty. Interesting. So, and then you, in terms of, because I know the audience likes to try protocol so that you described a protocol very nicely. What about day-to-day recovery? I mean, can the workout the, you described as intense, but short, how many days a week can the typical person do that and sustain progress?

2 (26m 59s):
Yeah. I mean, I think that comes back to your training age and your trading history. Obviously there's a resilience and a robustness with, with an incremental training age. So, you know, that's not a protocol that I would advise anyone to go out and start, you know,

0 (27m 12s):
Tomorrow might bring them off the

2 (27m 14s):
Floor, but at the same time, it's also relative, right? So 80% of your maximum at a young training age is still 80% versus, you know, I've been trained in 10 years, it's still 80%, but yes, the mechanical load is going to be significantly. It's just more tonnage. Right. But yeah, I think a protocol like that, we would look at two, two times a week, something that's, that's pretty intensive like that, because again, it comes back to the point you make is that you really need to be for want of a better term suffering a little bit through that type of protocol, both in terms of, of the challenge of the load, but also being able to tolerate them, the metabolic stress that you're exposed to it's, it's a, it's a, you know, a bit of a sicko feeling, right, because of the lactate that you're driving up.

2 (27m 57s):
So I, you know, I wouldn't promote as an athlete doing that type of modality, you know, multiple, multiple times and less urine from the realms of bodybuilding. And then you really, that that's the sole purpose of, of what you're trying to achieve. Most athletes in most sports have a diverse requirements in terms of outcomes that they're trying to achieve. They're not just targeting muscle growth and muscle growth is a conduit to increase strength, increased power, increased speed, obviously. So yes, trying to get bigger cross-sectional area of a muscle means that we can produce more force into the ground or, or wherever it may be if we're a locomotive athlete, but usually sports men and women are not just purely seeking muscle growth.

2 (28m 39s):
They, they, they look for different facets of muscle endurance or maximum muscle power, muscle strength, you know, so then you've got to be very creative in how you build the workout. If it's a bodybuilder, absolutely they're chasing muscle growth and they're going to do so with these types of protocols, which sees high intensities and high volumes of workload on a pretty regular basis. If it's just somebody, you know, a weekend warrior that wants to keep in shape and look, and look good, I would say, you know, two times a week for a really challenging workout like that, and then flex the other types of workouts within the week to have more of a volume emphasis where you reduce the intensity. And you might just look at, you know, larger rep ranges from 12 to 15 to 20 under the workout where you're looking at, you know, reducing the volume, but increasing the intensity and really trying to drive in a different stimulus to give you more end points of, of, of success.

0 (29m 31s):
Great. No, that's, that's really informative along the lines of androgens and intensity. When I think intensity, I think epinephrin adrenaline. And since you have a background in catacholamines and testosterone, last time I was here at the UFC performance Institute, we had a brief conversation and I, I want to make sure I got the details, right. That in the short term, and a big increase in stress hormone can lead to an increase in testosterone, like a, like a parachute jump, but so stress can promote the release of testosterone. Yeah. That was news to me. Right. We always hear about stress suppressing, testosterone, stress, suppressing the immune system, all these terrible things.

0 (30m 14s):
But in the short term, you're saying it can actually increase the release of testosterone. So I have that. Right. And correct. Okay. And so then the second question is, does my cognitive interpretation of the stressor make a difference? In other words, if I voluntarily jump out of a plane with a parachute, does it have a different effect on my testosterone than if you shove me out of the plane against my will? Well, presumably with a parachute to,

2 (30m 43s):
I mean, so, so this was what all my PhD work was, was looking at was the, you know, the, the pre, the, the exposure to a stressor and the pre arousal of how your body essentially prepares for that stressor, and then how it manages it throughout the exposure to the stress. And it was actually motivated from parachute jumpers. There, there was an older study looking at parachute jumpers into, into, into combat. And then, you know, they, they were studying, you know, the cortisol, the stress response and the epinephrin response of these parachute jumpers. So we, we got us thinking about, hold on, you know, there's certain workouts that you do that are just the daunting, you know, it's like, okay, it's squat, squat Saturday, or whatever it may be.

2 (31m 24s):
Oh my gosh, this is going to be a, it's going to destroy me

0 (31m 28s):
Or have to talk to this person. I don't want to talk to, or, you know what, right. I mean something or PhD, dissertation exam or something,

2 (31m 35s):
Even public speaking or whatever it may be now, you know, we, we, we used an exercise. We use a resistance training protocol that, that these athletes knew were, was going to be very, very challenging. It's going to be, there's going to have some anxiety to doing it, the new that we're going to be some physical distress from doing it. And therefore, you know, them, their mindset of how they were going to approach that was already set. So what we saw prior 15 minutes prior to the start of the next exposure to the workout, the, the epinephrin, the neuro adrenaline, the adrenaline was already starting to prepare the body sympathetically to go into what it knew was going to be a very, very challenging workout. So that brings you back to, you know, exercise preparation competition for certain preparation preparation for certain competition, excuse me, you know, pre-workout routines the use of music, you know, all these different things that we know can now, you know, anecdotally in the gym we put into place, but you know, the data that I presented to show that it was the first of its kind to show that this link between, you know, epinephrine and norepinephrine release and arousal, and then consequent performance.

2 (32m 44s):
So force output throughout the, throughout the workout was intimately linked.

0 (32m 49s):
What was the takeaway there? Should, is it beneficial for people to get a little stressed about the upcoming impending event? Whether or not it's a lift in the gym or whether or not it's talking to somebody that you might be intimidated to talk to, or an exam is, is the stress good for performance or is it harmful?

2 (33m 8s):
Yeah. And I think that's a great question. And I think I can only talk to, you know, physical exertion, which is what we were, we were, we were exploring. And, and I don't want to try it on the toes of the psychologists with flow state and these types of things, because clearly

0 (33m 21s):
I think you're in the position of scientific strikes on this one. I think you have the leverage. I mean, I mean, most, you know, I have a lot of friends in that community is I'll just say as a, as a buffer to, to your, the answer, you're about to give that there's, there's very little science around flow and there's very little neuroscience related to most psychological states anyway. So I think we've got a lot of degrees of freedom here. I'll take it out. I'll be anything you like credit Duncan, anything you dislike, send them, send the mean comments to me. Yeah.

2 (33m 53s):
From my data, certainly the greater the arousal, the higher the performance was from a, from a physical exertion perspective. And I think that was the intriguing part of some of my findings where there's definitely a biochar, an individual biokinetics to some of these hormonal kind of releases in as much as those guys that had the highest, you know, adjunct response in terms of epinephrin release neuro epinephrin release also sustained force output through for a longer period of the workout than those that didn't. So the, the, the, the individuals that had a lower stimulus of, of the sympathetic arousal, let's say, certainly didn't perform as well throughout the workout. Now, the intriguing thing then becomes is okay.

2 (34m 36s):
And I think this, this really segues into what we're doing here with, with combat athletes, with mixed martial artists. You know, there's a philosophy, there's a paradigm now from a self in terms of the exposure, repeated exposure, you know, the, the more you do that challenging workout, do you get the same psychological stimulus? Do you still get the same stress response? And, and the assumption is unlikely. You know, you accommodate, you become accustomed to the stress. Your body will therefore adapt, and that's the classic overload principle, right? You then need to take the stress it down a different route. But I think when you look at, you know, the, the, the athletes that we work with here, it's, it's a fist fight at the end of the day.

2 (35m 16s):
That's, there's nothing more stressful than that. But I think just the exposure to the rigors of training, to understand the bad positions, the bad situations, to know that they can get out of certain situations that have certain, you know, submission holds or whatever. It may be a thing that really ties in with some of my PhD work in terms of what these guys do to approach what is, you know, really challenging sport and arena in mixed martial.

0 (35m 40s):
Yeah. It's definitely the extreme of what's possible in terms of asking, does stress favor or hinder performance, because yeah, like you said, at the end of the day, it's someone trying to hurt you as much as they possibly can within the bounds of the rules. And you're trying to do the same. So that's, you know, I find that your thesis work fascinating were where you never to be at the UFC performance Institute. Luckily they made the right choice and brought you here, but where you have never to come here, I was still fascinated by this because over and over, we hear that stress is bad. Stress is bad, stress is bad, but everything I read from the scientific literature is that stress an epinephrin in particular is coupled to the testosterone response to performance and to adaptation provided it doesn't go on too long.

0 (36m 30s):
So I'm, unless I'm saying something that violates that, I mean, that's your work. So it's a really important and beautiful work. And I, I refer to it often. So I'm just glad that I think we could, you know, bolt that down because I think the people need to know this, that, that discomfort is beneficial. Now there's a, there's another side to this that I want to ask about, which is the use of cold in particular things like ice baths, cold showers, or any other type of cold temperature exposure, you know, in theory that stress also it's epinephrin.

0 (37m 9s):
And so how should one think about the use of cold for recovery? So if it's stress, how is if stress, if colds causes stress, then how is cold used for recovery? That's what I don't understand. And maybe you just want to share your thoughts on that. Yeah,

2 (37m 26s):
No, and I think, you know, it's a great question, and I think the, the jury is still out there, certainly no, in some of the conversations that we we've been having, but I think, you know, when we talk about stress, it's your classic fight flight or freeze approach and, you know, throwing your body into, you know, a cold tub, an ice bath or whatever it may be certainly is going to have a physiological stress response. Now, people using that for different end goals. And again, I think that's where the narrative has to be explained if you are using the stress specifically to manage the mindset, to use it as a specific stress stimulus. That's the same as me doing six by 10 80%.

2 (38m 8s):
You know, you're just trying to find something to disrupt the system, to do something that's very in, for want of better term, painful discomfort, whatever. You're just finding a stressor and then being able to manage the mindset. But if you using cold specifically from a physiological perspective to promote, you know, redistribution of vascularity of bloods flow, you know, to, to different vascular areas of muscle that you feel have gone through a workout that a damaged or whatever it may be, I think there's w we've got to understand what that stress mechanism is. And, you know, the, the data, the literature is certainly still out there with respect to cryotherapy and cold baths, and some of these, you know, high these, these cold exposures in terms of what they do at the, at the level of the muscle tissue.

2 (38m 57s):
If that's, if that's the target, if you're trying to promote a flushing mechanism, or you're trying to promote redistribution of, of the blood flow, what you've got to understand is that cold is going to clamp down every part of the vascular system. And we've really got to understand how the muscle would be redistributed to areas of interest. So, you know, I think the stress response is, is, is, is a real thing with respect to, you know, cold exposure. But I think the narrative around, what are you using the cold for has to precede the conversation because yes, it's, you know, it's like putting your hand over a hot cold, you know, that that's a stress the same way as jumping in a cold bath is.

2 (39m 40s):
Yeah.

0 (39m 40s):
I think most people don't realize that you're going to get the epinephrin release from holding your hand up too close to the plane, and you're going to get it from getting in the,

2 (39m 47s):
But your body doesn't know the difference, right? Your body does not know the difference. It is a, a primordial kind of physiological response that it's created over millions of millions of years. And I think that that's, that physiology is, is not changing. And it's, it's fixed in a particular way right now that, that it doesn't understand the difference between whether it's six by 10 doing a challenging workout over here, whether it's putting our hands on the hot coal, whether there's a lion stood in front of me or whatever that epinephrin response from the level of the brain down to the whole signaling cascade is, is the same

0 (40m 22s):
And cold I've heard can actually prevent some of the beneficial effects of training that it can actually get an get in the way of muscle growth, et cetera.

2 (40m 33s):
Yeah, there's this, there's some pretty robust data out there now showing that it definitely has an influence on performance variables like strength and power in particular, but absolutely in terms of muscle hypertrophy. And there's a big kind of theme in, in the world of athletic performance right now, in terms of periodization of cold exposure as, as a recovery modality, when do you use cold, you know, should you be using cold for recovery in periods of high training load when you're actually pursuing, you know, maybe general proprietress for preparatory work, we actually try to pursue muscle growth. Well, that's usually where you get the most sore. It's usually where, you know, you feel the most fatigued, but it's probably not the most beneficial approach to use an ice bath in that, in that scenario, because you're dampening, you're dulling the, you know, the MTL pathway and, and the, the perch hypertrophic signaling pathway, whereas in a competition phase where actually quality of exercise and quality of execution of skill and technical work has be maintained.

2 (41m 35s):
You want to throw the kitchen sink of recovery capabilities and recovery interventions in that scenario because you now, you know, the muscle building activity should be in the bank that should have been done in the, in the general preparator preparatory work. And now you're focusing on technical execution. So you're absolutely right.

0 (41m 53s):
No, it's interesting. So if I, if I understand correctly, if, if I want to maximize muscle growth or power or, you know, improvements and adaptations, then the inflammation response, the delayed onset muscle soreness, all the stuff that's uncomfortable and that we hear so terrible is actually the stimulus for adaptation. And so using cold in that situation might short circuit my progress. But if I'm, you know, I don't know that I'll ever do this, but if I were to do an iron man or something, or run a marathon under those conditions, I'm basically coming to the, to the race, so to speak with all the power and strength I'm going to have. And so they're reducing inflammation is good because it's going to allow me to perform more work,

2 (42m 36s):
Essentially. Absolutely. Yeah. You have to be strategic about when you use some of these interventions and, you know, the, the time when you're preparing for a competition is not the appropriate time, excuse me, is the appropriate time when you want to drive recovery and make sure that your body is optimized. You know, when you're far away from a competition, you know, dates or, you know, out of season or whatever it may be. And you're really trying to just tear up the body a little bit, to allow it to it's natural, you know, healing and adaptation processes to take place where you don't want to negate that you, you know, you want the body to optimize its internal recovery and that's how muscle growth is going to happen. So, so interesting that there's a time kind of consideration that you need to make with these interventions, for sure,

0 (43m 20s):
At the UFC performance center that are the fighters, periodizing their cold exposure, or they just see doing cold cold at, at,

2 (43m 27s):
At will. Well, it's not just the UFC. And again, I talk about my personal experiences with different sports. I think just education around where science is at and our understanding of concepts, like the use of cold exposure for recovery, ice bath. You know, everyone wants to jump in an ice bath, but I think as we've, as we've stepped back and scientists have start to say, start to figure out and look at some of the data, you know, we're now more intuitive about, well, actually that might not be the best or the most optimal approach. And I think that's that's any given sport. So yes, certainly here the UFC, we're trying to educate our athletes around, you know, appropriate timing. And it's the same with nutrition is the same with an ice bath intervention.

2 (44m 10s):
It's the same with lifting weights. It's the same with going for a run or working out on the bike. You know, the, the there's there's tactics to when, when you do things and when you don't do things. And I think, you know, stress and cold exposure, w we have to have a consideration around that as well, but it's not just, you know, MMA fighters up to any, any athlete. And I think it's the best, the best professionals, the most successful professionals do that really well. They underst they listen, number one, they educate themselves and then they build structure. And I think, you know, at the most elite level, we always talk about it here at the UFC, but the most elite level, you're not necessarily training harder than anybody else, everybody in the UFC trains hard, like everyone is training super hard, but the best athletes, the true elite levels are the ones that can do it again and again and again, on a daily basis and sustain a technical output for skill development, therefore their skills can improve or physical development that physical attributes can improve.

2 (45m 8s):
So that ability to reproduce on a day-to-day basis falls into a recovery conversation. Now, when is the right time to use something like an ice bath and when isn't is part of the high-performance calm conversation, for sure.

0 (45m 22s):
So really they're scientists, they're building structure, they're figuring out variables, but it sounds like the ability to do more quality work over time is one of the,

2 (45m 32s):
I mean, it's fundamental. I mean, garbage in garbage out quality in quality out, but in our sport, you know, talk about, you know, mixed martial arts, it's truly a decathlon of combat. So there's so many different attributes, whether it's a grappling, whether it's a wrestling, whether it's a transition work, whether it's a standup striking. So th the different facets of a training program in this sport significantly large compared to something like, you know, a wide receiver in football, and that's no disrespect for wide receivers, but they run routes. They're going to run around passing tree and that's all they need to do. These guys have to be on the ground. They've gotta be great on the ground. They've gotta be great standing up. They've got to be great with the fit, you know, the back against the fence.

2 (46m 13s):
So there's so many different kind of facets to our sport. So managing the distribution of all the training components is one of the biggest challenges of mixed martial arts and, and the best guys get that rates. They, they allow their body to, to optimize the training and remember, why, why are we doing training? We're doing training for tap technical and tactical improvement. Now, if you, if your body is fatigued or you just can't expose yourself to more tactical development or technical development, then you're essentially doing yourself a disservice. You're going to be behind the curve, whether it's with respect to those guys that can reproduce that day in day out

0 (46m 51s):
On the topic of skill development, regardless of sport, we hear all the time. And it certainly is intuitive to me that the person who can focus the best will progress the fastest. But it's kind of interesting. Sometimes I talk to athletes and they seem a little bit laid back about their training sometime, and yet they obviously know how to flip the switch and they can really dial in the intensity. Do you think that there are optimal protocols for skill learning in terms of physical skill learning? Like, could it ever be, parameterized like the six sets of 10 reps, you know, and this gets to the heart of neuro-plasticity, which is still, you know, it's not a black box, but it's kind of a, a black box with portions of it illuminated.

0 (47m 38s):
I like to, I like to say, but, you know, what are your thoughts on skill development? Is there for somebody that wants to get better at sport? Do you recommend a particularly long or short training session? It does intensity matter or is it just reps?

2 (47m 54s):
Yeah, I think it, no, it's, it's not a volume driven exercise. It's a quality driven exercise. And listen, my, my expertise is not in motor learning and motor skill acquisition. I, I tend to default to gov Dr. Gabriela Wolf fear, UNL V for that she's one of the leading proponents in this area. But, you know, if, if you look at, you know, true skill development, it is about rehearsal of accurate movement, accurate movement mechanics. And the soon, as soon as that becomes impacted by fatigued or inaccurate movement, you're now losing the, the, the motor learning. You you're losing the accuracy of the skill that, you know, people can call it muscle memory or whatever, the one, right.

2 (48m 38s):
But essentially you're grooving neural axons to, to create movement patterns and they're situational throughout sport, right? Yeah. You know, whether it's a crave turn in soccer or a jump shot in basketball or a forehand down the line, you can carve out that particular posture and position and skill, and you can isolate it and you can drill it again. And again, again, as soon as fatigue is, is influencing that repetition it's time, it's time to stop. And the best coaches understand that they understand that it's quality over quantity when it comes to skill acquisition. So to answer your question in a roundabout way, I would say, yes, it's, it's, it's shorter sessions that are very high quality.

2 (49m 18s):
And I think the best athletes in my experience are the ones that consciously and cognitively are aware of it. Every moment of the training session, they should, they should leave the training session, not necessarily just physically fatigued, but mentally fatigued because they're completely engaged in the learning process. The problem then becomes okay, if we just do lots of, you know, 30 minutes sessions, we've got to do a lot of 30 minutes sessions to get the volume exposure of the repetition and the rehearsal of this skill again. And again and again. So it's a bit of a paradox. It's a bit of a double-edged sword, but you know, a three hour session versus a 90 minute session, you know, we'll, we'll take the 90 minute session any day when it comes to skill acquisition, because that's going to be driven by quality over quantity.

0 (50m 5s):
Yeah. Training and skill learning is incredibly mentally fatiguing. I've often wondered why when one works out hard, whether or not it's with, you know, run or with the weights, why it's hard to think later in the day, right? Yeah. It really, there really does seem to be something to it. And I've wondered is it depletion of adrenaline, dopamine? I sometimes think it's might be dopamine and here I'm totally speculating. I don't have any data to support this, but if you hit a really hard workout or run early in the day, oftentimes the brain just doesn't want to do hard mental work, which gives me great admiration for these athletes that are drilling their mind and body all, all day, every day with breaks.

0 (50m 48s):
But, so what are your thoughts? What, what, what leads to the mental fatigue after physical performance?

2 (50m 53s):
Well, again, I don't want to talk out, you know, I'm talking to the man here, you know, this

0 (50m 58s):
Just two scientists speculating on this point up until now. We've been, you've been giving us concrete peer reviewed study based feedback on my questions. But, but if we were to speculate, I mean, I think this is a common occurrence. People think if I get that really good workout in, in the morning, I feel better all day. That's true. Unless that workout is, is really intense or really long. And then you just, the mind just somehow won't latch on to mental work. It quite

2 (51m 25s):
What as well. I mean, just philosophically. And I think there's, there's a, there's a coming back to this kind of stress consideration, you know, like public speaking, I've taken an exam, you know, I mean, if you're, if, if, if you have an amazing coach who is setting up training in a particular way, it's challenging, there's a strain related to it. And I'm not talking physical strain, I'm talking, figuring things out, you know, figuring out the skill. And I think that can be stressful. Like the learning process can be stressful. So, you know, we've touched on stress. I also think if they, if they, you know, if, if they hit the right technique, you know, that reward center in the brain, that dopamine shot is, is going to fly out there. And there's only so many times that we can get that before that becomes dampened.

2 (52m 7s):
And I think there's an energetic piece to it. You know, there's the fueling of the brain. There's the, there's the, the carbohydrate fuel then exercise that actually the strategy around how you fuel full learning and fuel for physical training is actually pretty similar glucose. Yeah. It's, it's glucose, it's sugar at the end of the day. Right. So, you know, I, I, you are you fueling accordingly around your training sessions, be that very physical because everyone thinks, okay, you know, I'm going to jump on the treadmill and I'm going to bang out, you know, 15 sprints, max effort, and I'm going to be dropping off and laying on the floor at the end of it. I need to refuel. Well, what about the refueling of the brain in a very demanding exercise or drilling session where you're looking at technique that you're trying to figure out?

2 (52m 54s):
That's very challenging for your mind to figure out the complexity of it. It still needs to be fueled or refueled afterwards. And I think that's obviously might be an area where athletes do themselves a disservice by not appropriately fueling from what might be considered to be a lower intensity session. But the, the, the cognitive challenge has been significantly high

0 (53m 16s):
Doing skill work or drill work, and it's taxing the brain and they're thinking, oh, you know, I wasn't, you know, pushing hard lifts or doing sprints. And so I can go off the rest of my day, but then they're there. Their mind is drifting. Yeah.

2 (53m 30s):
I speculate. Yeah,

0 (53m 32s):
That seems very reasonable. I mean, I know that I'm here and presumably with the other athletes you've worked with nutrition is a huge aspect of that. And I think the general public can learn a lot from athletic nutrition because at the end of the day, the general public is trying to attend to their kids, attend to their work, whether or not they're lawyers or whatever they need to focus. Nutrition is a barbed wire topic. Oh yeah. But if, since we're free to do what we would do if we were just sitting in each other's offices, which is to just speculate a bit it for the typical person, right. Do you think these low carbohydrate diets, a typical person who exercises run swims, yoga, lifts, weights, maybe not all those things, but some collection of those is pushes themselves to do those things and to do them well, but isn't necessarily a highly competitive athlete.

0 (54m 23s):
Do you think that nutrition that doesn't include a lot of glucose doesn't include a lot of carbohydrates is a problem or is it okay? What do you, what do you recommend for athletes? What do you recommend for typical people?

2 (54m 38s):
Yeah. Again, disclaimer, I'm not a dietician, but

0 (54m 41s):
That's okay. The dieticians don't know what to recommend either. And I say that from having spent a lot of time with the literature, now it's a complete mess. It's like, I thought we didn't understand anything about the brain, the nutrition science stuff is all over the place. So I think we have again, large degrees of freedom.

2 (54m 59s):
Right, right. I mean, I think, you know, I think it's, it comes down to metabolic efficiency. So we would never, we would never advocate a high, I never say never. Right. Okay. But you know, we rarely advocate a high performance athlete in a, in a high intensity intermittent sport, like MMA being totally ketogenic or recommend that. No, because at the end of the day, some of those high intensity efforts usually require, you know, carbohydrate fueling for the high-end and the energy, the energy is produced at those high intensity. So we try to navigate around that. Now there, listen, there are fighters in the UFC and elsewhere, Matt brown is a great example who promotes the ketogenic approach and it works for him, but we, we, we look at the science and the nature of the characteristics of our sport.

2 (55m 50s):
And we don't necessarily promote that

0 (55m 52s):
Real quick. What about ketones for people that are ingesting carbohydrates? This is an interesting area because people always hear ketones and they think, oh, I have to be ketogenic to benefit from taking ketones. Right. There are a number of athletes and recreational athletes now as well, taking liquid or powder based ketones on, even though they do eat rice and oatmeal and bread and other things as, so are there any known benefits of ketones, even if one is not in a state of ketosis? So

2 (56m 23s):
The, the, the, the, the only, the, the use of ketones that I'm primarily aware of is, is in our sport, is after the event, you know, in terms of the brain health with, with athletes are taking, you know, potentially taking

0 (56m 35s):
Trauma to the brain, et cetera, and looking to maintain the, the, the fueling and the energy supply to the brain. But yes, it's probably a little bit on my remit, so I don't want to talk on that because I'm not, I'm not fully familiar with that. Well, I've heard that ketones after head injury can provide a buffering component. It's not going to reverse brain damage, but it might be able to offset some of the micro damage. Right.

2 (56m 57s):
So that, that's what, that's how we use it, just to sustain, you know, the energy supply to the brain that might be compromised through brain trauma. So that's why we use ketones to come back to your original question. If it's a general population, then yes. I think there's, there's a place to argue that actually been on a ketogenic diet at times, and maybe the cycling and exercise, maybe not, I don't mean cycling and bike. I mean, cycling ketosis is beneficial because I think it's going to lead to better metabolic management and metabolic efficiency, those lower intensities, where we should be fueling our, our metabolism with lipids and fats, clearly the, the Western diet and, you know, the Monday diet is heavily driven by processed foods and carbohydrates that, you know, people become predisposed to utilization of that fuel source above lipid use fat use intensities that are very low.

2 (57m 53s):
So, you know, some of our data with the fighters shows that as well. But I think the challenge for us is that we're working with a clientele that require high intensity bouts of effort. So, you know, fueling appropriately is very important for that. Now we use, we use tactics here where we essentially have athletes on what you would say, kind of a, is it a largely a key to genic diets, but then we will fuel carbohydrates around training sessions. So we'll do very timed exposure to carbohydrates. So it's no straining post-training immediately pre during and then immediately post. And then the rest of their diets, you know, breakfast, lunch, and dinner, what would look like ketogenic type approaches.

2 (58m 36s):
So we're trying to be very tactical in the exposure to maximize the intensity for the training and then return to a metabolically efficient diet, which is heavily reduced in carbohydrate because we've fueled the, the, the sessions that needed

0 (58m 51s):
I'm smiling. Because once again, the, this place, the UFC performance center is doing things scientifically, which, you know, to me, the idea that Anna and I'm pleased to hear that because to me, that's idea that the ketogenic diet is the best and only diet or carbohydrates and low protein diets are the best. I it's just it's ludicrous. Right. Then you mentioned metabolic efficiency. I think some people might be familiar with that term. Some perhaps not, but the way I understand metabolic efficiency is you're you teach the body to use fats by maybe doing long, long bouts of cardio, maybe lowering carbohydrates a bit. So teaching the body to tap into its fat stores for certain periods of training.

0 (59m 35s):
And then you also teach the body to utilize carbohydrates by supplying carbohydrates immediately after training and before training, you teach the body to use ketones, and then you use them at the appropriate time, as opposed to just deciding that one of these fuel sources is good and all the others are bad. Are dispensable, do I have that correct?

2 (59m 52s):
I mean, from Bob, see, Bahar is formerly of USA. Triathlon is, is the guy that kinda came up with the, the, the concept of metabolic efficiency, but yes, you're absolutely right. I mean, low intensities of exercise or just day-to-day living. We shouldn't be tapping into our carbohydrate fuel sources, extensively that's that's for higher intensity work, or, you know, the fight or flight needs of, of stress. You know, if you know, athletes or any individual has a, you know, a high carbohydrate diet, they're going to start to become predisposed to utilizing that fuel source preferentially.

2 (1h 0m 33s):
Now at low intensity, that can be problematic certainly for an athlete, because if they preferentially use carbohydrate at lower intensities, when the, when the exercise demand goes to a higher intensity, they've already exhausted their fuel stores. You know, they can't draw upon fat because the oxidation of that, that fat is just too slow. So they're essentially now become fatigued because of they've already utilized the carbohydrate stores. So what we try to do yes, through diet manipulation and a little bit of exercise manipulation is as you say, teach the body or train the body to preferentially use a specific fuel source fat, obviously at lower intensities and carbohydrate at high intensities. And we will look at specifically the crossover point between the two tells a lot in terms of how an athlete is, is ultimately, you know, how their metabolism is working

0 (1h 1m 19s):
Well, again, I I'm smiling because I love this because it's grounded in something real and scientific, which is that we have these different fuel sources. The body can adapt to use any number of them or one of them. I think most people are looking for that one pattern of eating that one pattern of exercising. That's going to be best for them or sustain them. And they often look back to the time when they felt so much better switching from one thing to the next, but the adaptation process itself is also key, right? Teaching the body. And I, so if we were to just riff on this just a little bit further, if, if somebody I'll use myself as an example, since I can only speculate what other people's current nutrition protocols are, but if somebody is eating in a particular way and they want to try this kind of periodization of nutrition could one say, okay, for a few weeks, I'm going to do more high intensity interval training and weight training, and I'm gonna eat a bit more carbohydrate cause I'm depleting more glycogen than if I switched to phase of my training where I'm doing some longer runs.

0 (1h 2m 23s):
Maybe I'm not, maybe I'm training less. Maybe I'm just working at my desk a little bit more. Then I might switch to a lower, lower carbohydrate diet. Do I have that right? And then if I'm going to enter a competition of some sort, certainly not UFC or MMA of any kind to be clear, not because it isn't a wonderful sport, but because it's a, that wouldn't be good for my other profession. But if I were going to do that, then I would think about stacking carbohydrates, ketones, and, and fats. Is that, do I have that more?

2 (1h 2m 52s):
Yeah, I think, yeah. You just said it eloquently at the end of the day, you're consciously understanding what the, the exposure to physical exertion is, and you're flexing your diet accordingly. And I think need-based eating exactly, you know, for if one of editors, you know, you can call it whatever fancy terminology there is out there, but yes, it's, it's, needs-based eating, but you're very conscious and cognizant of what is my current exercise status. You know, if, you know, if I'm taking some time off, then, you know, don't Gorge on the carbohydrates. We probably need to be cut. It's going to be lower intensity work, or even just habitual. Day-to-day walking around doing your groceries. You know, that that doesn't require massive amounts of glycogen storage and carbohydrate fueling.

2 (1h 3m 37s):
So you can potentially go more ketogenic in nature, you know, oxidizing lipids for that fuel. If you are in a high period of, of high intensity training, then you have to consciously flex your diet to support that that's not normal. You've, you've made a change of elevated the demand. So the fueling requirements for the regenerative, not only fueling the exercise, but the regenerative requirements of your body after that type of work is going to be really important as well. So yes. Take on more carbohydrates. So I think it's consciously interpreting the nature of your diet against what, where you are at any moment in time.

0 (1h 4m 13s):
Yeah. I think the listeners of my podcast generally are experimenters. They are scientists of themselves, which, which makes me happy obviously. And, and, and I like to think that they're paying attention to the changes they're making and how they're affecting themselves. And they seem more open to trying things provide. They can do it safely, you know, and, and, and seeing what works for them. And I'm certainly gonna try some of the change up. I also really a creature of habit. And I think the talking to you today, I realize I'm probably doing a number of things truly wrong in my training, but also that I don't tend to vary my nutrition with my training. Quite as much as I should. I'm just locked into a protocol.

0 (1h 4m 54s):
We, we covered a number of things related to your PhD thesis work. And then, but I cut you off early on related to your trajectory after you finished your thesis, you, I know you were at Notre Dame for a while. Was that your first spot after, after your PhD thesis?

2 (1h 5m 10s):
No. No. I, I basically finished my PhD and I dropped into the British Olympic system for about 14 years. I was with, you know, I've done three full Olympic cycles with different sports and largely a strength and conditioning coach as a practitioner. I was always working in universities and academia alongside, you know, in terms of continuing to publish and write and, and do research and teach as well, because that explains

0 (1h 5m 38s):
The volume of publications. I don't think people realize the work that goes into getting a quality peer reviewed publication. It's not a, what do they call it now on Instagram Aneca data where people would do something, what, you know, they have this experience and then they put it in the world that it's, that anecdata are, I don't even know that we can call it data, but so 14 years in working with the British Olympic team. Yeah.

2 (1h 6m 2s):
Yeah. So with, you know, whether it was GB boxing, primarily with, with the, the Rios, excuse me, the, the Beijing cycle, but also lightweight rowers and gymnastics. And for the London Olympic games, that cycle I was with, I was a, the lead strength, conditioning and physical performance coach for British basketball. So GB basketball. I had about three years in the English premier league and with, with Newcastle United and the soccer team, and then for the Rio Olympics, I close with great Britain TaeKwonDo. So again, another combat sport after I'd finished there, I kind of moved to the university of Notre Dame, where I went into more of a, more of a managerial position working across all the different technical services, medical nutrition, stranding conditioning, you know, sport psychology, whatever it, sports science, whatever it may be as the, you know, the director of performance sciences for Notre Dame athletics.

2 (1h 6m 56s):
And then after about 16 months there, the UFC came knocking and they recruited me out of Notre Dame. So it's been, it's been a great ride and lots of, you know, I've got, you know, lots of athletes have taught me a lot along the way. Lots of coaches, you know, every day is a school day. I still try and keep that, that mentality. And, you know, in this world, we call it white men, white belt mentality, you know, it's, you know, I'm a, I'm a PhD, I've got 25 years of experience in, in high performance sport. But I still, I still learn every single day from these people out on the mats and in the ring. And it's impressive to see.

0 (1h 7m 29s):
Yeah, it certainly is. I, I got introduced to MMA just a few years ago. I think the first time I came out here was one of the first times I'd heard of MMA cause I was having my laboratory and you know, nose down. And it's a really interesting sport because it incorporates so many different types of movement. As you said, you know, it's not just stand up boxing, it's just kicking it's EV you know, ground game, everything, and I'm still learning about it. But it, as you mentioned, going in with that, beginner's mind that what white Ben meant a white belt mentality. What, what has been the most surprising thing for you in terms of being exposed to M MMA in particular, as opposed to other sports, like what's, what's unique about MMA fighters, besides that they have this huge variety of, of tactical skills that they have to learn and perfect.

2 (1h 8m 18s):
Yeah. That's a great question. I would say two things. I'm going to answer two questions. One actually reiterate what you've already said. Like the degrees of freedom in mixed martial arts are exponential. Like no other sport. You know, we've got 11 different weight classes. We have men's classes, we have women's classes. We have, you know, kickboxers wrestlers jujitsu fighters judoka is, you know, like karate fighters. You know, the stylistic backgrounds are infinite. We have a, we're a weight classification sport. There's a whole issue relating to making weight and then rebounding to, to fight about 24 to 30 hours. Like just the variability in this sport. The, the, the considerations that you have to make are unprecedented compared to any other sport that I've worked with.

2 (1h 9m 2s):
And a lot of them go against, and there are the antithesis of what you would expect for a high performance, you know, in terms of, we, we don't always have a very clearly defined competition schedule. You know, once these guys fight, they don't necessarily know when the next fight is going to be. What's the closest spacing of, of a fight. I mean, listen, I think the, the record is around it's, it's just over a month, I believe. So, you know that that's a quick turnaround, but most of these guys are fighting, you know, three or four times a year, three times a year is, is pretty normal. The, the, the bigger fights, maybe two times a year, but invariably, the guys don't know when that next date is going to be.

2 (1h 9m 43s):
So we're in this gray area of, okay, what do we do? Like, are we, are we taking some time off or we're just going to do some general prep work? Are we going to try and keep this, you know, the knife sharpened in case I get, I didn't

0 (1h 9m 54s):
Realize this in that way. It's a lot like special operations.

2 (1h 9m 58s):
Absolutely. You don't know when the call is going to happen

0 (1h 9m 59s):
To be ready at all times there isn't this, like, let's get ready for the season, right?

2 (1h 10m 4s):
Yeah. Like when, when I was with the British Olympic association, you know, I knew it was the, the British open, the Spanish open, the French open, the European championships, the Israeli open, the American open, the Canadian open the Olympic games. You know, it's a circuit in

0 (1h 10m 16s):
Your brain

2 (1h 10m 17s):
Just plan like, you know, where all the targets are going to be here. It's a moving target because you might be just hanging out doing some general prep work, and then you might get a short notice fight. They give you a quick call and it's in six weeks or five weeks and okay, I've got to ramp everything up really quickly. So that's a real challenge in terms of just managing all these, this, these different components of mixed martial arts along the, the other to combat to your question. The other thing which is truly fascinating about these individuals is there, there's the mental resilience. And again, we've touched on it in the talk, but you know, the ability to do what they do on a daily basis to look at all the different skillsets that they have to try and engage in and, and, and bring into their training to do that and, and, and embrace the grind, embrace the process of just learning the physical side of our sport is unprecedented, but the mental side, you know, we have a funny that we always say it's 90% medical, 90% mental apart from the 60% is physical.

2 (1h 11m 19s):
So it, you know, it's just, it's just more and more and more. And these, these guys' ability to, to just do that on a daily basis is, is, is, is very impressive. Like the resilience that their internal drive and their resilience is, is, is really impressive to see.

0 (1h 11m 34s):
Yeah, all the fires I've met here have been really terrific. It's interesting. Every time I meet a fighter, how often I, I shouldn't be surprising where they're often very soft-spoken right. Always extremely polite and fighting is such a, you know, it comes from a very primitive portion of the brain, right. As, but a large portion of the brain, nonetheless,

2 (1h 11m 53s):
No, the skill is that switch, you know, and again, that's the recoverability piece, right? Like you cannot be Taipei or you cannot be like supercharged 24 hours a day because you're going to just fry your system. Right. And I think that's something else where we're really trying to manage this whole process, be it through nutritional interventions, be it through education, around sleep bit through training pro program management, be it through psychological interventions. You know, you could look at fights and say like, these guys are gold. Like they're red alert and they they'll run through a brick wall, but actually again, their ability to turn it on and off means that they can do what they do. You know, they can bring it down and, and be very normal, very polite, very accommodating.

2 (1h 12m 37s):
Yeah.

0 (1h 12m 37s):
Maybe even better than most people, because you know, one of the reasons I'm obsessed with, with human performance and high-performance, and people like fighters, you know, elite military, or, or even bodybuilders for that matters that they, they experiment. Yeah. They find the outer limits of what's possible. But one of the things that they have discovered as you're describing is this ability to toggle between high alert states and calm states. Most typical people can't do this. They see something that upsets them on the internet or something on the news or some external event pressures down on them. And they're stressed for many, many days and weeks. And sometimes it goes pathological, right? And this, I don't say this as a criticism, it's just that most of most human beings within our species, most members of our species never learned to, to either flip the switch or to just voluntarily toggle between states.

0 (1h 13m 27s):
I think athletes learn how to do that extremely well. And it sounds like MMA fighters do that even better than perhaps many other athletes. I mean, yes,

2 (1h 13m 36s):
Th there's the odd one or two that we've struggled with. But I think in terms of that chronic exposure, w we, we see that coming from challenges around, you know, cyclical, weight, cutting and metabolic disruption and metabolic injury, not necessarily from the psychological drive, you know, they, they do, they do understand that this is a job for them. And the time on the mass, you know, most of them can, can turn it off a little bit and, and downgrade things when they're off the mats. It's a, it's impressive to see, because again, like, as, as a layman, just looking at the fight game, you think, you know, it's going to be crazy, chaotic a hundred an hour every hour of every day, but that's not, that's clearly not the case.

2 (1h 14m 16s):
They, they, they manage their energy and their efforts.

0 (1h 14m 20s):
Well, this is a little bit like science. Although maybe scientists could take a lesson from

2 (1h 14m 25s):
Evidence-based practice. Practice-based evidence like that.

0 (1h 14m 27s):
That's good. A couple more questions. I can't help myself. I know we talked about temperature earlier on when we discuss cold, but I can't help myself. I have to ask you about heat because earlier we were having a conversation about heat adaptation, about how long does it take for the human body or athlete or typical person that's maybe exploring sauna or things of that sort to learn to be a better sweater? It sounds like something none of us would want to do. We all want to say cool, calm and collected. But one of the reasons to deliberately expose oneself to heat is for things like growth, hormone release, et cetera. We talk about this, but a couple of questions. One is heat exposure, stress in the same way that the ice bath or cold exposure of stress.

0 (1h 15m 13s):
The second one is, is there any difference there that's important? And the other one is how does one get better at heat adaptation or at least what are you doing with the fighters to get them better at dealing with heat? How long does that take? So the first question, just cause I threw three questions at you is, was, you know, is heat stress like coldest stress?

2 (1h 15m 34s):
Yeah, I think it is. And I think, you know, he shot proteins for example, are driven by that stressful exposure to a change in environment. So I think, you know, it's, it w we do graded response in terms of heat, acclimation strategies, but yes, we've touched on it earlier in the conversation for me, heat is still a stressor. And if it's managed incorrectly, you can have detrimental responses rather than beneficial responses.

0 (1h 16m 1s):
So barring like hyperthermia and death, like, I mean, obviously you heat up the brain too much. People will have seizures and die, but you lose neurons, but what's the right way to acclimate heat, taking into account that people are, you know, should check with their doctor, et cetera. We do all these disclaimers, but, you know, but let's say, I let's just say, I want to get better at dealing with heat, or I want to extract more benefit from heat is, I mean, how many minutes a day are people typically exposing themselves to heat? How often and over how, what periods of time?

2 (1h 16m 31s):
Yeah. So we, we, we normally start with about 15 minutes of exposure. Now, if someone's really lacking acclimation to heat, you know, you can do that in three, five minute efforts. Do you know what I mean? And actually take hot, hot sauna. Yeah. Hot sauna. Take time to step it a hundred

0 (1h 16m 45s):
Degrees or something,

2 (1h 16m 46s):
Correct? Yeah. Yeah. 200 Fahrenheit. Yes. And we, we, we try to work up to 30 to 40 minutes to 45 minutes in the sauna continuous. Now, w we have to understand, you know, why what's the advantage of heat acclimation for our athletes, ultimately their ability to sweat and to lose, you know, body fluids is going to be advantageous to their weight cut process. So their ability to make weight, it is a technique that these guys, some of these guys adopt. So if you don't have, you know, high sweat rates, it means you're going to have to sit in the sauna for longer and longer and longer to get the same Delta in sweat release. So the more acclimated you are, the more your body is thermogenic, genetically adapted, the more sweat glands you have, the small pores, you can sweat more and therefore you'll lose that fluid quicker and you spend less time in the sauna.

2 (1h 17m 37s):
So that's why we do it to try and promote the, the limp to limit the exposure. When it comes back to your first question, is it a stressor? It's it absolutely. It's a stressor. If you've got to spend, you know, two hours and over, you know, over a four hour period, two hours of it's sat in a sauna yeah.

0 (1h 17m 53s):
Where the phone doesn't work. So you can not just divorced them from their phone and that's a stressor in itself.

2 (1h 17m 60s):
I mean, yes. The thing, you know, there's, there's a, you know, w what we do is we like anything we build up in temperature, we bought, we build up in volume of exposure. So, you know, we start with 15 minutes and then we just try to add on and add on across a time. And now, now for us, we kind of found about 14 Saundra exposures starts to really then drive that at stations that we're looking for. So it's not a quick fix, you know, a heat acclimation strategy has to happen long before fight week or long before the fights. You know, this is a, this is a process that has to begin, you know, eight to 10 weeks before the fight so that we can actually get that adaptation. And that tolerance to the stressor, to the exposure of

0 (1h 18m 39s):
Heat is interesting. I, until today, when we were talking about this earlier, and again, now I didn't realize that, but it makes perfect sense. Now that I hear it, that heat adaptation is possible that your basic can train the body to become better at cooling itself, which is what sweating is. I mean, I should have known that before, but, you know, you don't see that in the textbooks. And so, I mean, listen,

2 (1h 19m 1s):
It's, it's, it's the same as the ketogenic conversation. Now you're training your body to be more better metabolic efficient. You train your body to tolerate heat, mind, you're training your butt. Like the body is a, you know, as an organism, as an organic system, it's, it's hugely adaptable. It's usually plastic. But I think the skill is understanding the whens, the ways and the werewolves in terms of changing the overload, changing the stimulus to drive specific adaptation and philosophically that's. That's how we go about our work here. We talk about adaptation led programming. Now adaptation led programming fits into every single category, not just lifting weights or running track.

2 (1h 19m 42s):
It fits into nutrition. It fits into sitting in the sauna. It fits into being in a cold bath or not. It fits into so many different things because we're driven by scientific insights. And, and that's how we really want to go about,

0 (1h 19m 55s):
I love it. I love this concept of adaptation led programming and doing that, not just in the context of, you know, throwing another plate on the bar or something like that, but in every aspect of, of one's training and, and performance. And I think there's a lot here that's applicable to the recreational athlete too. Yeah. Would you say that, you know, what comes to mind is 12 weeks? It feels like 12 weeks is a nice block of time for someone to try something in terms of to try something new, see how they adapt, adapt, and then maybe switch to something new. I realized that it's very hard to throw a kind of pan time frame around something, but in terms of, if someone wanted to experiment with heat adaptation or experiment with cold adaptation or change up their training regimen or, or diet, and look at metabolic efficiency, do you think 12 weeks is a good period of time to really give something a thorough, go and get an gait gain an understanding of how well or how poorly something works for oneself?

0 (1h 20m 50s):
Or would you say eight is enough for,

2 (1h 20m 53s):
I mean, that's, that's the, how long is a piece of string kind of response rate? I mean, yes, if, if we're just talking arbitrary numbers three months, exposure, 12 week training strategy, 12 week intervention is, is more than adequate to say for 99% of things that change within the body that physiologically adapt to a training stimulus or an overload stimulus. You're going to start to see either regression or progression, you know, beneficial or detrimental effects within three months. Absolutely. I would say so now, listen, w I say that in as much as we do training blocks here that are three weeks long, right?

0 (1h 21m 30s):
Well, that's because of this constraint that sometimes people suddenly have to get the call to fight,

2 (1h 21m 35s):
Correct. Yeah. So it's like super condensed. And, you know, in that, in that scenario, we're always conscious of is a body is a body or this individual, do they have the ability to tolerate that super overload that like super condensed exposure. Now we might be doing that purposefully. We might be trying to do an overreaching strategy where we're really trying to damage or flex something. And I don't mean like negatively damaged, but like we're trying to damage tissue to really get an adaptive response versus, you know, a more drawn out 12 week strategy, which is more coherent, more planned out, more structured in nature. But yeah, for all your listeners, I would say if, if 12 weeks to engage in a process of, of, you know, trying to change and adapt your body or expose yourself to something is more than sufficient to see if it's going to be the right approach for you.

2 (1h 22m 25s):
And I think, you know, the, the, the hue, the individual interpretation is always has to be considered. And I think that's where it comes back to, to be a thinking man's athlete or be a thinking man's trainer, like someone that's going through exercise. Don't you have to cognitive consciously understand where your body's at any moment in time, you know, you've gotta be real with yourself. You create a journal, create a log of your training, create a log of your feelings, your subjective feedback of, you know, how you felt, your mood, your sleep, your athletes do that. Yeah. Yeah. We, we, we tried to promote that because again, that's, that's part of this process, you know, maybe 12 weeks for you, but I might get the same responses in eight weeks, you know, and I think that's, that's a, that's another critical theme here is that, you know, we could put 15 guys on the mat and give them the same workout, and there's going to be 15 different responses to that same workout because the human organism is so complex.

2 (1h 23m 25s):
And in nature that it's going to adapt differently. You know, some people will tolerate it. Some people are going to be challenged by it. Some people have got a metabolic makeup, that's going to promote it. Some people are met metabolically challenged by it. You know, th there's, there's just so many different things that we have to consider. And that's what we try to do here. It's across we bear is that we try to understand on an individual level how to optimize athletic performance.

0 (1h 23m 48s):
I think it's terrific. And you know, the athletes here are so fortunate to have this and most people out there I've, you know, I've certainly been trying to encourage people to learn some science and some mechanism and become a scientist to their own pursuits, whether or not skill learning or athletic pursuit, et cetera, as a sort of a final question. What are some things about the UFC or something about the UFC that perhaps people don't know in terms of its overall mission or what you guys are trying to do here? I mean, I think I've, I've become a fan of MMA and I am more and more as time moves on. Some people might be in MMA, some people not into watching MMA, but what are some things that the UFC is interested in and doing that most people might not know about it.

0 (1h 24m 31s):
And certainly I might not know about,

2 (1h 24m 33s):
Yeah. I mean, I think, you know, we, we, we try to be cutting edge. We try to be super progressive. You know, we, we, we think we've got an amazing platform here, particularly the performance Institute to do some really cool things that can inform many different people and adults that doesn't just mean the, the 600 or so athletes that are on our global roster. What we're trying to do is, is influence, you know, global community around optimizing human performance. So, you know, any moment in time, we're engaging in different technologies with different vendors, different partners, you know, exploring opportunities to learn more shared data, understand what's the best mechanisms for, you know, interpreting your body, interprets in how your body's responding to training, interpreting, you know, your nutrition or whatever it may be.

2 (1h 25m 20s):
We, we get we're in a really privileged position to do that, but we've also, you know, hence you being here today, you know, we were also trained to venture into some really cool areas of science and research. That's got applicability that you can take from high performance athletes and apply, you know, to yourself, do you, you know, Joe blow walking down the street, you know, out there that that is really interesting and that's everything from, you know, whether it's CBD and psychedelics through to different technologies for, you know, thermal monitoring and Bluetooth heart rate monitoring or whatever it may be through to data management, et cetera, and, and, and, and anything in between. We've, we've got some great partners on the nutrition side, on the psychology side, on the data.

2 (1h 26m 4s):
And I think, you know, we, we always try to just push the envelope a little bit more. I think we, we keep our core mission with our athletes, but I think a lot of what we do, hence your podcast and, you know, like an amazing platform, you do such a great job of it that, you know, we can all learn and take from, you know, the elite and interpret how it might help us and just in the general population. So I think that's, you know, that's, our north star is to provide our athletes the best integrated service of care, but we also want to influence, you know, just the global community and put, you know, UFC at the forefront.

0 (1h 26m 39s):
That's great. Well, you guys are certainly doing it. We can't let the cat out of the bag just yet, but the things that we're gearing up to do with my laboratory and the work together, hopefully we'll be able to talk about that and share that in, in the year to come. But that's, we're very excited about that. And Duncan, look, you know, th I have this, this filter that I use when I talk to people, academics or otherwise, which is, you know, some people, they open their mouth and it, and it doesn't make much difference, but when you speak, I learn so much. I I'm going to take the protocols that I've heard about today. I'm going to think about how I'm training and how I could train differently and better home eating, how I could eat different differently and better for sake of performance.

0 (1h 27m 22s):
And just in, in general, thank you so much for your time, your scientific expertise, the stuff you're doing in the practical realm. It's, it's immense. So hopefully we can do it again.

2 (1h 27m 34s):
Yes. Thank you. This has been a blast. I appreciate it. And yeah. Keep doing what you're doing. Cause I know there's a lot of people out there that love the platform. So thanks for the invite and it's been awesome.

0 (1h 27m 42s):
No, thank you. Thanks so much. Thank you for joining me for my conversation with Dr. Dunkin French. I hope you found it as insightful and informative as I did. If you're enjoying this podcast and or learning from it, please subscribe to our YouTube channel. Please also leave us a comment or a suggestion of a future topic or future guests that you'd like us to have on the Herberman lab podcast. In addition, please subscribe to our podcast on apple and Spotify and on apple, you can leave us up to a five-star review. Please also check out the sponsors that we mentioned at the beginning of this episode. That's a terrific way to support this podcast. We also have a Patrion it's patrion.com/andrew Huberman.

0 (1h 28m 22s):
And there you can support the podcast at any level that you like many previous episodes of the Huberman lab podcast.

Thorne (1h 28m 28s):
We discuss supplements, supplements for sleep supplements, for focus and for other health benefits as well. While supplements may not be for everybody. If you're going to use supplements, you want to make sure that those supplements are of the very highest quality for that reason. We've partnered with Thorne, T H O R N E because Thorne supplements are of the very highest quality and the amounts of ingredients listed on the label of Thorne supplements, precisely matches what is actually contained in those capsules, bottles and pills and powders and so forth. This is extremely important. A lot of analyses of supplements and supplement companies have shown that what's listed on the bottle is often not. What's actually contained in the bottle. Thorn stringency is unmatched. They've partnered with all the major sports teams with the Mayo clinic. And so there's a lot of trust in Thorne supplements for all the right reasons. If you'd like to try Thorne supplements, you can see the supplements that I take. You can go to Thorne T H R I need.com/the letter U slash Huberman. There, you can see the supplements that I take. You can get 20% off any of those supplements. And if you navigate into the thorn site through that portal, you can get 20% off any of the supplements that Thorne makes.

2 (1h 29m 37s):
I'd also like to mention that if you're not already following us on Instagram at Huberman lab, you might want to do so. There I do brief science tutorials and offer science-based protocols for all sorts of things that are often separate from the protocols and information covered on the Huberman lab podcast.

0 (1h 29m 54s):
We're also on Twitter as human lab and last, and certainly not least thank you for your interest in science.