1 (0s):
Welcome to the Huberman Lab Podcast where we discuss science and science-based tools for everyday life. I'm Andrew Huberman, and I'm a professor of neurobiology and ophthalmology at Stanford School of Medicine. Today my guest is Dr. Robin Carhartt Harris. Dr. Carhartt Harris is a distinguished professor of neurology and psychiatry at the University of California San Francisco. He's one of the leading researchers in the field of psychedelics and how they change neural circuitry in the brain. His laboratory is responsible for understanding, for instance, how psilocybin also sometimes refer to as magic mushrooms change neural circuitry in the brain, such that new ideas and new forms of learning occur.

1 (43s):
His laboratory is also responsible for carrying out various clinical trials, some of which have demonstrated that appropriate dosages of psilocybin can alleviate major depression in more than 67% of people that take the drug. Now, this is not to say that everybody should take psilocybin in today's discussion, describes both the clinical trials and why treatments with psychedelics in some cases work and in some cases do not work in order to treat major depression, as well as discussions around psilocybin, lysergic acid, dimmy, sometimes also referred to as L S D, as well as D M T, and how these change the brain and how those brain changes can relate to changes in mental health as it relates to depression and other psychiatric challenges, as well as how psychedelics are being applied in order to change a neural circuitry for sake of expanding different aspects of the human mind, including creativity, intelligence, and much more.

1 (1m 34s):
During today's discussion, Dr. Carhartt Harris teaches us about the history of the study of psychedelics, as well as how the legislature that is, the laws surrounding psychedelics are evolving in the United States and elsewhere for the use of psychedelics to treat psychiatric challenges. By the end of today's discussion, you'll have a thorough understanding of how psychedelics work, both in the short term during the actual journey or trip. In fact, much of my discussion today with Dr. Kahar Terrace talks about the different aspects of the psychedelic journey and how those relate to therapeutic outcomes. And of course, by the end of today's discussion, you will also understand the long term effects of psychedelics. That is how they can actually rewire the brain. Before we begin, I'd like to emphasize that this podcast is separate from my teaching and research roles at Stanford.

1 (2m 18s):
It is, however, part of my desire and effort to bring zero cost to consumer information about science and science related tools to the general public. In keeping with that theme, I'd like to thank the sponsors of today's podcast.

Eight Sleep (2m 29s):
Our first sponsor is eight Sleep. Eight Sleep Makes Smart Mattress covers with cooling, heating, and sleep tracking capacity. I've talked many times before on this podcast about the fact that sleep is the foundation of mental health, physical health and performance. One absolutely critical variable to getting excellent sleep is the temperature of your sleeping environment. That is in order to fall and stay deeply asleep at night, your body temperature needs to actually drop by about one to three degrees, and in order to wake up in the morning feeling refreshed and alert, your body temperature has to increase by about one to three degrees. There are a lot of ways to control the temperature of your sleeping environment, but one of the best ways is to control the temperature of your actual mattress, the surface that you're sleeping on. With AIDS Sleep, you can do this very easily. There's a simple to use app where you can program in the temperature of your mattress across the night, so you can make it slightly cooler, the beginning of the night, getting cooler, putting you into deep sleep, and then rapid eye movement sleep, and all of that in terms of its impact on your sleep can be tracked within the same app. I've been sleeping on an eight sleep mattress cover for more than two years now, and it has completely transformed my sleep. If you'd like to try eight sleep, you can go to eight sleep.com/huberman for their exclusive Memorial Day savings. Now through June 5th, 2023, eight, sleep currently ships in the usa, Canada, United Kingdom select countries in the EU and Australia. Again, that's eight sleep.com/huberman.

Levels (3m 46s):
Today's episode is also brought to us by Levels. Levels is a program that lets you see how different foods affect your health by giving you real-time feedback on your diet. Using continuous glucose Monitor, one of the most important factors in terms of your energy levels and your immediate and long-term health are your blood glucose or blood sugar levels as they're commonly called with levels, you can assess how different foods and activities impact your blood glucose levels. When I did this, it taught me several things. First of all, it taught me that certain foods really my blood glucose levels, and while spikes in blood glucose aren't always a bad thing, I was able to assess how certain foods were spiking my blood glucose too much such that I would have post eating dips in energy levels. And by removing those foods and substituting in other foods really evened out my energy levels. So if you're interested in learning more about levels and trying a continuous glucose monitor yourself, go to Levels Link slash huberman right now, levels is offering an additional two free months of membership. Again, that's Levels Link slash huberman.

Hvmn (4m 43s):
Today's episode is also brought to us by Hvm n Ketones iq. Keto IQ is a keto supplement that increases blood ketones. Now, most people have heard of the so-called ketogenic diet, but most people, including myself, are not on the ketogenic diet. That is I. And most people eat complex carbohydrates, fruits and things of that sort in addition to quality proteins, et cetera. It turns out that even if you're not following a ketogenic diet, increasing your blood ketones can still have benefits. So for instance, I use Keto IQ anytime. I want to do extended bouts of focused work, preparing for podcasts, research, writing grants, and if I ever want to exercise, but I don't have time to eat or I don't want to have my gut full of food taking Keto IQ and thereby increasing my blood ketones allows me to do cognitive work or physical workouts without getting hungry and with plenty of energy and cognitive focus. If you'd like to try Keto iq, you can go to hvm n.com/huberman to save 20% off. Again, that's hvm n.com/huberman.

1 (5m 41s):
I'm pleased to announce that I will be hosting two live events in September of 2023. The first live event will take place in Toronto on September 12th. The second live event will take place in Chicago on September 28th. Both live events will include a lecture and a question and answer period and are entitled The Brain Body Contract during which I will discuss tools and science related to mental health, physical health and performance. And I should mention that a lot of that content will have absolutely no overlap with content covered previously on the Huberman Lab podcast or elsewhere. If you're interested in attending either or both of these events, please go to huberman lab.com/tour and enter the code huberman to get early access to tickets.

1 (6m 21s):
Once again, that's huberman lab.com/tour and use the code HUBERMAN to access tickets. I hope to see you there. And now for my discussion with Dr. Robin Carhartt Harris, Dr. Carhartt Harris, welcome. I've been wanting to talk to you for a long time. I certainly have known who you are for quite a while because I place you in this very small but very special and important category of researchers who has been pioneering the use of psychedelics for the treatment of specific clinical conditions and really carrying the torch for essentially the entire field. So I wanna start with a, a voice of gratitude and say, thank you for doing this incredibly important work.

1 (7m 5s):
Could you tell us a little bit about what psychedelics are? In fact, I'm curious as to how the name psychedelic ever came to be and what you think they potentially reveal about the workings of the brain. And then we'll talk about the clinical applications.

2 (7m 20s):
Sure. Well, even that one is, is kind of hot one because opinions differ on how to define psychedelic. But perhaps a good starting place is to start with the etymology. Where did the word come from? And it, it was a Brit excommunicated living in, in Canada, Humphrey Osmond, who was due to present a a paper at a National Academy of Sciences meeting on psycho medics drugs that mimic aspects of psychosis in their action.

2 (8m 1s):
And certain drugs like masculine, let's see, 1956 and L S D were on on the bill and he felt dissatisfied with them being under this category of P medics and felt that the signature psychological effects of these compounds went beyond just mimicking psychotic symptoms. And so he wanted to find a more apt term to speak to in a sense the principle component of their action. And he jotted down a few different possibilities about a dozen or so, I think. And one of them was psychedelic, actually.

2 (8m 41s):
It started as an ended up being psychedelic. And he had a correspondence going on with another Brit also living in the US ORs Huxley, where they were playing with some terms to refer to these compounds. And, and in the end, Osmond won with psychedelic and he had this little ditty of, to fathom hell or so angelic, just take a pinch of psychedelic. That's where you put the disclaimer in. And so what does that mean?

2 (9m 21s):
It's to ancient Greek words, psyche means the human mind, or if we are being actually true to the ancient Greek, it means soul. And then the other component means to make clear or to make visible or to make manifest or to reveal. So all of those work, and it's, it's an neologism, it's a made up word, but it does have that ancient Greek origin. And it's speaking to this principle that these compounds reveal aspects of the psyche of the human mind, the soul that are ordinarily not entirely visible.

2 (10m 10s):
And so that's the etymology and it's wonderfully poetic. But I happen to think it's also very accurate. It's a useful term because it's sort of, you might say valence, nonspecific. It doesn't say you're gonna have a great time or that you're gonna go mad. It's more that it reveals a psyche and it could be hellish, but it could be heavenly. And so that's the etymology and also a bit of the psychology and sort of, you know, pointing to the phenomenology, the subjective experience. But there's also a pharmacology here. And quite recently there was put out a consensus statement about psychedelics that's really referring to what we call the classic psychedelics to say that these are all compounds that work on a particular receptor in the brain, the serotonin two A receptor.

2 (11m 8s):
And that's another way that we could define these compounds. I said, this one's a little hot because I'm of the view that while the pharmacology is really useful, how the drugs work chemically, you can't avoid the phenomenology. And if we are true to the etymology where the term came from, then we must recognize and we cannot neglect the subject of experience.

1 (11m 35s):
Thank you for that beautiful description of what brought us to today in terms of using the word psychedelics. And now it's thrown around all the time. Yeah,

2 (11m 45s):
Too much.

1 (11m 45s):
Yeah, too much. And and I'm guessing, well, not guessing, I'm certain that it's also used to describe many compounds that don't touch the five H two, five h t two A, the serotonin two A receptor. So there is a broader categorization by most people. And it'll be interesting to see where all the nomenclature and naming goes for the time being. I'd love for you to tell us a bit more about this idea that psychedelics, however one defines them, can reveal something about the mind that can't be revealed otherwise. Are you talking about the subconscious, I mean, you know, psychologists and most famously Freud, but also Yung and also neuroscientists, I think think about subconscious processing.

1 (12m 30s):
I think perhaps the most salient example for me that's outside the realm of, of anything psychedelic would be blindsight. This phenomenon that you take people that are blind but still have some connectivity in their brain and you present them, you know, a board with a computer screen with different number of dots on each side, and you say how many dots are on each side of the screen? And they say, what do you mean I can't see the screen, I'm blind. And you say, well, just guess. And their guess rate is accurate, far more than ch chance would, would predict. So they have so-called blindsight and people have said, well, this is the subconscious revealing itself. There's no psychedelic drug involved, but what you're describing is a pharmacologic induced state that reveals something that normally should we assume is masked, or that we are oblivious to, even though it's expressing itself.

1 (13m 24s):
What, what does it mean for these drugs to be rev, you know, revealing something about the workings of the mind that would not be obvious to us otherwise. Yeah, yeah.

2 (13m 33s):
So, so the example of blindside is interesting, but it's different. Blindside would be referring to non-conscious processing, maybe implicit processing. So stuff going on in the mind in perception in a sense that is below the threshold of conscious awareness, but yet is influencing you. So it's sort of, it's kind of related, but it's different. So in in depth psychology, psychoanalysis, psychodynamic psychology, you know, Sigma Freud, Carl Yung and so on, we talk about the unconscious. And there it's more about the kind of blood and guts of the human condition, the human nature, both the personal unconscious.

2 (14m 21s):
So things that you might not want to necessarily be conscious of cuz it's painful. So that, that's the repression aspect, pushing it out of conscious awareness.

1 (14m 32s):
Repressed memories in particular. Yeah,

2 (14m 34s):
Like traumatic memories, difficult relationships. It could be complex trauma, not necessarily just a specific, you know, index trauma, but a series of trauma. And then you have the collective unconscious, which was really Carl Jung's contribution to say that, you know, there's a transpersonal quality to the unconscious. There's aspects about humans, not just this individual human, there's aspects to our mo our minds are psyches that are not fully available to conscious awareness, but can come up in certain states.

2 (15m 16s):
You know, psychoanalysis went crazy for dreaming as, as their royal road to a knowledge of the unconscious that was Freud. But we now know with psychedelics, and this was what drew me into the area, was discovering literature that was speaking to this particular action, the psychedelic action, and was saying that when these drugs, like LSD, psilocybin found in magic mushrooms, when they're used in in psychotherapy, material comes up that maybe may have been repressed.

2 (15m 58s):
That that is of, you know, therapeutic value and awareness and insight of this material seems to catalyze the therapeutic process with, you know, strong emotional release, these cathartic experiences and, and insights, you know, whether they're insights that are personal or whether they're transpersonal. But for me, this is really where the meat of it is. With psychedelics and classic psychedelics in particular the likes of compounds like LSD and, and solo ibin. I would say that if it wasn't for this action by classic psychedelics, we wouldn't be so interested in psychedelics.

2 (16m 45s):
I, I think if we only had compounds like ketamine, mdm, a cannabis, that just, that could be said broadly speaking to be psychedelic. Like I don't think it necessarily would've captured the world's attention as psychedelics are right now. I actually think it's a major gap to fill is this principle action of the classic psychedelics. What does, what does this mean that I'm referring to psyche revealing, what is that? And I suppose where I'm going with this is what is that in terms of the biology as well? What's going on in the brain and the body when people become aware of things that previously they weren't fully aware of.

1 (17m 33s):
I'd like to talk about some of the clinical trials that you've been involved with in particular looking at psilocybin, the, as you mentioned, the principle halluc hallucinatory psychedelic agent in magic mushrooms. I'd like to start with a kind of nuts and bolts question just so that everyone's on the same page. I've read the papers that you've published and that others have published in this area. And typically the dosages used in these trials are 25 milligrams of psilocybin. And we talk about one recent trial in particular that compared 25 to 10 milligrams to more frequent use of very small amounts, one milligram over three weeks, for instance.

1 (18m 17s):
However, when people talk about magic mushrooms, they often talk about gram doses of the mushroom because I'm assuming that they contain milligram dosages of psilocybin here we're not encouraging use of any kind. These are clinical trials. But for clarity of understanding, what is the conversion typically like one gram of magic mushrooms will contain how many milligrams of psilocybin on average. Because what I want, what I'm trying to do here is, is calibrate people to this idea of microdosing versus macro dosing. And that's fairly straightforward to do with respect to the clinical trials.

1 (18m 59s):
But then in the, a lot of the lay discussion around this, you hear about heroic doses versus micro doses. And so I think there's a lot of confusion. So if you would educate us on this idea of what's a microdose and perhaps also how many milligrams of psilocybin are contained in a gram of magic mushrooms?

2 (19m 23s):
Sure. Well, a microdose is, is neither of these are that simple, but they're fun. It's a fun challenge. But microdose one definition is that it's a dose of typically a classic psychedelic like L S D or celly that is, that has sub perceptible psychedelic effects. Like it doesn't put you into a noticeable alter state of consciousness that feels like you're tripping. And if that was L S D, it looks as though the threshold is around about, let's see, 10, 11, 12 micrograms micrograms.

2 (20m 7s):
Micrograms

1 (20m 8s):
Very clear here. Micrograms, yeah. So 10, so 10 micrograms of L S D are you saying will not induce visual hallucinations in most people. So

2 (20m 18s):
It's, it's, that's threshold level, that's about the level that, that some people who are sensitive could feel it, but if you were to talk to the microdosing gurus, they might say that that's kind of the ballpark for an L S D dose that you would consider a microdose and then you would take sort of semi-regularly. It, it's typically something like one day on, one day off or one day on, two days off, this kind of thing. There's different protocols and yeah, so you know, some, like Jim Fadiman, one of the popularizes of microdosing I think would say that a true microdose should be sub perceptible.

2 (21m 6s):
You shouldn't feel it yet. The assumption is it's gonna change you in some way on a kind of trait level more than a state level and maybe behaviorally and the typical story goes, it will improve wellbeing and maybe, maybe it could improve certain aspects of cognition, say related to creative thinking. I emphasize the maybe there, because that's another angle with microdosing, we are kind of waiting for some compelling evidence as things stand right now, I'd say we lack that compelling evidence. There's some suggestive stuff, but often the study designs aren't that strong.

2 (21m 51s):
It's really hard to do a study with microdosing because you need to have permission to give people a microdose that, you know, for practical reasons they would go home with and otherwise you, you are requiring them to be in the lab, say three times a week for x number of weeks to meet the criteria of a course of microdosing, which might be, you know, two or three times a week for say a month. And that's a hard thing to do in a lab study. It's expensive. You'd need to do that against a suitable control.

2 (22m 32s):
So a placebo control. And there is a study that's been done in New Zealand that has some interesting preliminary data that did, I think kind of did the design right, but it hasn't been published yet. I've seen some positive findings presented around improvements in, in mood, but it's a bit early to get too excited about that needs to go through peer review and all that. But as things stand, you know, the evidence is pretty thin and, and you know, we have to be honest about that. We did quite a creative study with my colleagues at Imperial.

2 (23m 16s):
The guy leading that Ballash Chai Hungarian chap did a really creative design, very much his brainchild, he instructed people to do their own blinding, their own placebo controlled blinding of their own microdosing. So this was a classic citizen science study, like do it yourself science where they would get their LSD tabs and chop them up, put them into gel capsules, opaque, and have other capsules that are the placebos that they just close empty capsule. And then there was a whole barcode scan technique so that you, you kind of shuffle them up, you know, but they've got the barcode in the QR code so you can break the code later on, but once you've shuffled them up, you no longer know which ones had have the, the microdosing and which ones are empty.

1 (24m 9s):
Was this L s d,

2 (24m 10s):
This was L S D, you also tried it with mushrooms. But the issues with the mushrooms was people would burp, sometimes they'd belch and then they'd have this mushroom taste. So then he instructed people to get some like non-psychoactive mushroom material to put in. So it's really not an easy study, not an easy study. And, and it was, I love that kind of science, you know, real creative first mover kind of science. And the results were fascinating because the short story is that the microdosing didn't compellingly beat the placebo.

1 (24m 47s):
It did not,

2 (24m 48s):
It didn't. And he controlled because he asked, he controlled for expectancy. So people with positive expectancy, which is in a sense the vehicle that carries the placebo response, it's why you have a placebo is that positive expectancy can drive a therapeutic effect to, you know, a large extent. So he measured that pretrial and then used it to kind of correct for the response. And how did it work? Those who got a placebo but thought they got a microdose did as well as those who thought they got a microdose and did get a microdose.

2 (25m 28s):
So it was the bigger effect that the majority of the effect was in thinking that you got a microdose. So in a sense it was a victory for the power of the placebo response. And it's created all sorts of controversy. People don't wanna believe it, you know, that kind of thing. But that's the beauty of science, isn't it? That science is not about what you want to believe. That right there, it's the beauty of science, really.

1 (25m 54s):
I love that experiment of kudos to them. I'm not going to attempt to say his last name correctly. I

2 (26m 3s):
Tried. Yeah, I probably

1 (26m 4s):
Made a massive it. No, no, I, I think you, you got it. You were involved in a clinical trial that was published last year comparing 25 milligrams of psilocybin to 10 milligrams of psilocybin is a very, to a, a drug called sram. Yeah,

2 (26m 25s):
Yeah. Lexapro, yes. Lexapro.

1 (26m 28s):
And this one milligram over a three week dosage in wanting to discuss the results of that study a bit and some of the other trials that you've done involving psilocybin for depression, the treatment of depression, could we calibrate ourselves 25 milligrams of psilocybin? Is, is that what wouldn't, it's gonna be a perceptible dose, presumably hallucinations and all that. And is that what one would find in, I'm guessing here if I'm accurate, this does not mean that I have experience here, but two, two grams of, of mushrooms more

2 (27m 1s):
Than that we think. Yeah, sorry, I missed that. I missed that one went off on a tangent. But yeah, 25 milligrams of soy in would be, we don't know. And and it's important that I say that because I wouldn't want people to hear my answer here and then use it to calibrate their own dosing of mushrooms and get it way off. So it's guesswork. And I would love to see someone do a proper study on it and, you know, look at the occi content in a given mass of philosophy, mushrooms, magic mushrooms. But to my knowledge, that hasn't really been done.

2 (27m 43s):
Someone like Paul Sta Hitz would, would give a better answer here. But I, I think the percentage within the mushroom mass is some of susy in the mushroom mass and soin, which is the metabolite of susy is something in, in the 1%, a little bit higher maybe range.

1 (28m 4s):
Okay. So one, one gram 1000 milligrams of magic mushroom would contain about 10 milligrams of psilocybin. Is that right? Broadly

2 (28m 15s):
Speaking, yeah. Okay,

1 (28m 16s):
Great. That helps calibrate. And I think again, just allows the layperson to understand a bit more of where we're headed with these psilocybin trials and, and the results. So we don't have to restrict our discussion to just that one clinical trial. But if we include that one and, and compare to some of the other trials that you've done, I mean, your laboratory is seeing phenomenal, in my opinion, phenomenal results in the treatment of otherwise intractable depression, major depression, which so many people suffer from, from too. I I suppose there are two sessions of using psilocybin in these ranges of 10 to 25 milligrams.

1 (28m 60s):
Do I have that correct? Yes. Okay. Could we talk a little bit about what people typically experience during those sessions that allows this phenomenal transformation of mood and state and trait as well? And I'm especially interested in whether or not it is the experience during those sessions, that is the trigger that's necessary for the, the transformation from a depressed to a non-depressed state because we, the, the impulse is to think it is that what one thinks and sees and hallucinates is and hears is so vital. But of course these drugs can create neuroplasticity changes in our neuro wiring, presumably for long periods of time.

1 (29m 45s):
So what are your thoughts on the, the experience itself, and maybe for those who have not done these compounds before, you could explain a little bit about what's typical for people and what you think is leading to that incredible positive and pervasive change in mood, state and trait.

2 (30m 3s):
I would, I would say that it's more than impulse that is leading us to think that the experience is important. It's really data and, and converging evidence now. So independent teams, independent studies are rds, are converging on the magnitude of certain kinds of experience rated yes. With subjective rating scales is predicting therapeutic outcomes pretty, pretty strongly and very reliably. And so that's guiding us. Now, could you say, well maybe those experiences are some kind of epiphenomenon of say, a central brain action?

2 (30m 44s):
Well, absolutely, but then all experiences an epiphenomenon by that principle, and yet we care about it, you know, and it matters to us and in our human relations with each other. So I think it does matter to a, a human being when they're in a say a celly therapy session. And as the drug effects begin to come on and the body starts to feel a little strange and tingly and there's some initial anxiety, and then in their mind's eye, they start to notice patterns and maybe colors and then maybe those patterns deeper and they're dynamic and they have this fascinating organic quality.

1 (31m 30s):
Are they patients in your studies typically using a, an eye mask? Yeah. Or so they're in the eye mask. So eyes closed. Yeah, that's why you said mine's eye as opposed to looking out into the, the

2 (31m 41s):
Clinical setting. And that's one of the major differences to psychedelic therapy versus taking a psychedelic is you shut your eyes, you know, and it's a, it's a world away from taking a psychedelic Yeah. A, a rave or something, you know, in a sense, good luck with that. But in psychedelic therapy, yeah, it's, it's, you know, settled conditions, there's music playing. And what I'm describing here is very much the default. There's, there's actually, you know, very little variability between the different sites that have done this work on these conditions. Typically it's two people, ideally mental health professionals at at least one who's a psychiatrist or a clinical psychologist or some other kind of psychotherapist or psychiatric nurse.

2 (32m 34s):
But ideally two who meet those criteria with a individual who's ingested the drug and music playing throughout a kind of runway into taking the drug. And then throughout, so there's continuity

1 (32m 49s):
Music with lyrics or, or without lyric,

2 (32m 51s):
Without lyrics to begin with. And the music typically is spacious to begin with, and then builds and becomes atmospheric. There might be, I don't know, some tribal drums in the distance or, or something as, as it develops, or like the sound of a bird in the distance, you know, a bird's call. And then as it gets into more stronger drug effects, the music starts to coax emotion and very intentionally, you know, strings for example, would come in and it's, it would be an interesting experiment and one that we'd love to do actually to see whether, if you were to pull that out, whether the, the psychedelic experience would be as emotionally intense as, as it is in psychedelic therapy when you have music there as a default.

2 (33m 56s):
And across the board, people should find this remarkable because it kind of is all of the published studies that are now, you know, having such an impact on psychiatry and beyond, have music there as a staple component. And we just take it as assumption that it needs to be, I tend to share that assumption, but it's remarkable that it hasn't been tested properly, but it's there. And you know, if you were to run with that and, and if you were a, a, you know, had a kind of critical agenda, you would say, well, this is music therapy, you know, why are you making all this fuss about psychedelics where it's music that's there in all of these trials, there's all these fantastic findings.

2 (34m 40s):
So there is something to that, you know, and it, this will tee me up probably to talk about psychedelic therapy being a combination treatment. We have a hyphen between the two because I share the hypothesis, the assumption that should be tested better, that there is a positive interaction between the two, that there's a synergy between the two. That's

1 (35m 5s):
Why it's psychedelic therapy. Yes, with a hyphen, just like Cart Hart Harris,

AG1 (35m 12s):
I'd like to take a quick break and acknowledge one of our sponsors, athletic Greens, athletic Greens now called Ag One is a vitamin mineral probiotic drink that covers all of your foundational nutritional needs. I've been taking Athletic Greens since 2012, so I'm delighted that they're sponsoring the podcast. The reason I started taking Athletic Greens, and the reason I still take Athletic Greens once or usually twice a day, is that it gets me the probiotics that I need for gut health. Our gut is very important. It's populated by gut microbiota that communicate with the brain, the immune system, and basically all the biological systems of our body to strongly impact our immediate and long-term health. And those probiotics and athletic greens are optimal and vital for microbiotic health. In addition, athletic Greens contains a number of adaptogens, vitamins and minerals that make sure that all of my foundational nutritional needs are met and it tastes great. If you'd like to try Athletic Greens, you can go to athletic greens.com/huberman and they'll give you five free travel packs that make it really easy to mix up athletic greens while you're on the road, in the car, on the plane, et cetera. And they'll give you a year supply of vitamin D three K two. Again, that's athletic greens.com/huberman to get the five free travel packs and the year supply of vitamin D three K two.

1 (36m 27s):
This is extremely useful to hear because I think most people think, okay, psychedelic, whether or not they have experience with psychedelics or not, get some visual hallucinations, some auditory hallucinations, some synesthesia, some visual auditory blending, some add sensation, you know, rubbing a surface and, and being able to elicit the sounds in one's mind, of course, et cetera. But so seldom do we actually hear about the, the specifics of these clinical trials in a way that, for instance, points to music as one of the perhaps key variables. Now you mentioned that as people enter these psychedelic states, that there's a little bit of initial anxiety.

1 (37m 8s):
About a year and a half ago I had a discussion with Dr. Matthew Johnson, who's running some psilocybin trials at Johns Hopkins, as you know, and he mentioned the critical importance, at least in his mind, to this idea of the patient letting go or allowing the experience to take them someplace mentally as opposed to trying to constrain their sensory and cognitive experience. I'm curious what your reflections are on that, on that idea and why it might be so valuable clinically, and this ties back to this earlier dis discussion we were having about the unconscious or about psychedelics revealing something that's there all the time, but that we don't have access to.

1 (37m 59s):
You know, it's, and again, I'm, I'm struggling to find the right language for this because we don't really have a neural mechanism like, you know, top-down inhibition or something like that to explain how this, you know, unconscious might be uncorked in the psychedelic experience, but to make it quite simple and direct, how important do you think it really is for the patient to feel like they are letting go and what in the world is letting go in biological terms? Yeah,

2 (38m 28s):
Yeah. Well, I think we'll get there in terms of having the neuro correlates of the mind revealing itself to itself. You know, the emergence of uncon the unconscious into consciousness or unconscious material into conscious awareness. It's a, it's a wonderful challenge. It's a huge challenge, but it's a challenge to embrace and letting go very much is again, a staple component of how the different teams do this work in terms of encouraging a willingness to let go.

2 (39m 8s):
And when we started out doing our depression work and, and did that first trial, it was the first trial of, of a psychedelic in formally diagnosed depression, you know, where that was the target population, a depressed population. It was the first modern study to do that. And we visited Hopkins friends there and, and were mentored on how to do the guiding Bill Richards Mary Kasim. They were just so brilliant and, and, you know, wise in, in their, in their guidance to us as to how to do the guiding in our trial.

2 (39m 56s):
And so this phrase of trust let go be open. You'll hear a lot, I dunno who fairly it should be attributed to, but I would attribute it to Bill, bill Richards. Yeah, everything's borrowed, you probably got it from someone else, but it's such a key principle and it's, it's almost like a mantra that you are trying to instill in people trust, let go be open. And those different components where the trust is about therapeutic rapport, that, again, you know, this goes beyond just intuition. Now we formally measured therapeutic rapport.

2 (40m 37s):
We do it even with just a single item, a visual analog scale item, the subjective rating scale item on the morning of dosing. And we find that it's a, it's a significant predictor of the quality of the experience that you have under the drug in, in the psychedelic therapy and then the therapeutic outcomes x weeks or months later. So very powerful kind of chain of, of sort of predictive components there. But trust essentially important. And again, not just intuition, but the data pointing to that let go.

2 (41m 17s):
There's a readiness, a readiness to surrender, to let go, to not resist. And we do measure that too and see that it's predictive of response. And then the being open is about a, a willingness to go there, to confront, to be inquisitive. Something that's easier said than done can be terrifying. You know, when you are dealing with a very vulnerable population, it's probably more the rule then the exception that they're carrying some significant adversity, life adversity or, or frank trauma that they've suffered.

2 (42m 0s):
And so that message of be open, be willing to confront and to go there is really, you know, it's really powerful and that, that's how it plays out. And, and often there is struggle, there's something going on that is, I don't want to be feeling this, make it stop. That can be nightmarish at times, but it's very, very strong. And with these big doses that we give, it's, it's very strong. And a actually a, a student that I've worked with, I think now doing a PhD, Ari Brower is working on a fantastic project characterizing the different phases of the psychedelic experience where the early phase is dominated by negative emotions and, and negative, negative valence feelings of anxiety and struggle.

2 (42m 57s):
And then it's a different story in the latter half.

1 (43m 1s):
Could I ask about that? First of all, I think that's fascinating and important to analyze the different phases. And again, I'm delighted here because people typically hear about a psychedelic journey, but we never really hear about the, the kind of stereotypical components of the beginning, middle, and end of that journey. We know that there's a peak and that there's a kind of a parachuting down and, and et cetera. But when you say that typically there's an anxiety, maybe some negative valence in the early stage, do you mean about the sensations people are experiencing or about some prior event that's being called to mind, that they're remembering likewise for the positive phase of the psychedelic journey or trip?

1 (43m 40s):
Are people, do they still call it a trip? Yeah. All right. For the, I guess we'll use trip for the psychedelic trip, are people feeling positive about the experience? Like, ah, like there's been some sort of breakthrough or they're in a, in a calmer state? Or is it that they tend to be focusing on prior events that were positive? So in other words, is there a threading through of some concept that comes to mind for people, maybe about an earlier trauma or maybe about a sense of self or a sense of other forgiveness? You know, it could be any of these things, but what do we know about the kind of finer details of all that? Hmm.

2 (44m 20s):
I would say the initial struggle is more against the general drug effects than pinning it on, on something specific. It's more that, you know, normal waking consciousness. We have a sense generally speaking, if we are well or well enough, a, a sense of assuredness about what's what, you know, there's a table here and, and so on. And, and, and we have that assuredness in to an extent about ourselves as well. It might be a losery, but we have it. And what the drug's doing is it's breaking down all of that and it's scary as hell, you know, and if it's a big dose, it's just like human nature to be, to re you know, rage against that a bit and, and a bit like dying.

2 (45m 6s):
You know, I don't want this, it feels like I could be dying.

1 (45m 10s):
I might lose my mind. Yeah, that too and never come

2 (45m 13s):
Back. Those two are the classics is, oh, but I might, you know, I might know that I've taken a psychedelic and I might even know a bit about psychedelics, but I still fear that I'm gonna go mad or that I know they, you know, generally speaking, these drugs don't have a high, you know, fertility risk. I still think I'm gonna die. You know, and it's just, it's very palpable and that, and that comes up. So yeah, that's that. I mean, those are the core fears that those two and very reliably that comes up and it's really like a basic drug action.

2 (45m 58s):
It's dose dependent, but it's a basic drug action that is forcing something about the nature of the mind and the way it's made up that makes it feel that way. Oh, but it feels like I'm losing my mind or it feels like I could lose my mind or that I could go insane or that maybe I'm, I'm dying here and this is bad. Yeah.

1 (46m 21s):
You've talked many times before and have done really wonderful work looking at the changes in communication between different brain areas while under, while people are under the influence of psychedelics. And I think the gestalt of those data, correct me if I'm wrong, is that compared to the non psychedelic state, that under psychedelic influence there is far more, let's just call it interconnectivity or communication between a brain areas that typically aren't communicating, which probably is not surprising to people given the, the subjective effects of these, of these drugs. What is the evidence that after the psychedelic journey is over that some or perhaps all of that enhanced communication across brain areas is maintained?

1 (47m 7s):
And if so, what role do you feel that could play in these incredible positive therapeutic outcomes?

2 (47m 13s):
Yeah, so we, we've had a, some recent findings in, in that direction where yes, it's true. And you know, the picture that says a thousand words that some people might be familiar with are these two circles. A project that we did in collaboration with some researchers where ordinarily the communication is going on within systems, like other regions of the visual system will be speaking mostly within the visual system. There'll be a kind of cliquey cliqueishness or a modularity to the quality of the communication in the brain.

2 (47m 56s):
And then the cool finding with soy was the first paper is that the communication, yes, it sort of transcends these modules and becomes much more intermod crossing different modalities. And that effect correlated with the magnitude of the subjective effects. And then we replicated it with LSD using different methods and new paper will come out soon where DMT showing a similar effect. It's a bit of a debate about what regions are most implicated, but the general effect of an increase in global functional connectivity is what we call it, or global communication in the brain.

1 (48m 38s):
And this is while under the influence of this is under the influence to putting people into a brain scanner while they are under the influence of the drug. Is that right? Yes. Yes. That itself must be a quite an experience given that these scanners are small tubes, you're in a bite bar, you, you've got a bite bar in your mouth. That's a quite a quite a study. You

2 (48m 57s):
Don't always have a bite bar. Okay. At least with the psychedelics. But yeah, you've gotta keep your head still and, and you have the loud Mr scanner noise going, but because it's regular, there aren't too many surprises. So it's actually surprisingly tolerable

1 (49m 15s):
And you're in a hospital setting, so you're not worried about what would happen if you had a cardiac event or something. Yeah,

2 (49m 20s):
You've got professionals around and you know, most people generally tolerate that setting quite well, surprisingly well. But yeah, we do all that and, and yes, we do see that opening up of the communication across systems in the brain and it does speak to kind of intuition about the subjective experience that, you know, different modalities might be blending with each other and

1 (49m 46s):
Is, sorry for interrupting, but I have to ask, is it thought that the activation of the serotonin two A receptor is what's responsible for the increased communication between brain areas that under normal circumstances would not be communicating?

2 (50m 0s):
Yes. So there's a few reasons why some modeling work that computational modeling work that first identifies where the two A receptor is and then looks at models, its basic effect on neural activity will recapitulate the, the, or recreate the effect that we see actually in the data with the scanning. So doing the computational modeling, you can see the same effect by knowing whether to where the, the key receptors are and then making them do a certain thing that we know psychedelics do,

1 (50m 38s):
I can imagine two possibilities and I think it's important to distinguish between these two. One possibility is that the activation of this serotonin two A receptor leads to increased connectivity and thereby auditory and visual hallucinations emerge changed patterns of thinking emerge, et cetera. That's sort of the obvious interpretation, but the scientist in me has to ask, is it possible that all of that increased connectivity is occurring? And yet that is a distinct phenomenon layered on top of some other effect of the psychedelic drugs impacting access to the, to the unconscious hallucinations.

1 (51m 19s):
In other words, is it the increased connectivity that's leading to the subjective experience or are those two things happening in parallel?

2 (51m 26s):
Well, they happen in parallel and they map to each other. But the question of causality, what causes, what is the tricky thing where I, I would suggest that the, the, the causality is circular that they influence each other. And this gets a bit philosophical, but it kind of matters because otherwise, you know, there's a trap that it's easy to fall into where you are thinking that it's all about the brain action causing the subject of experience. And that's typically what we do in cognitive neuroscience. It's kind of like the sort of first port of call kind of materialist approach.

2 (52m 11s):
But one can be a materialist essentially, but still appreciate that circular causality that mind also interacts with brain and it's so hard to pick the two apart and there is a kind of essential dualism where subjective experience is a thing in and of itself, but that's not to divorce it from what's going on on the biological level.

1 (52m 33s):
The re the reason I ask is because as I understand it nowadays there's a bit of a movement within the scientific community that studies psychedelics to develop drugs that can essentially cure or alleviate many of the symptoms of depression or trauma that are built off our understanding of how psychedelics like psilocybin. And here I'll throw M D M A in there, although classically non a psychedelic, it kind of gets lumped in. We can get back to that later, but that do not produce hallucinations or massive changes in subjective experience. Hmm. Actually I think this is what initially got us into conversation on Twitter, as I had learned about this paper published out of a group at uc Davis that is essentially modifying psychedelics so that they have potential therapeutic application for the treatment of depression, but zero hallucinogenic properties.

1 (53m 29s):
Yeah. And I thought, wow, this is going to be a very controversial thing in the world, right? Because the, the history of psychedelics, as you pointed out, has been one of people accessing different modes of thinking, feelings, seeing things, these in letting go trust, et cetera, a therapeutic relationship. And here we have, I don't want to say pharma cuz it's not really pharma, but we have laboratories who are trying to tease apart the activation of receptors independent of all that subjective experience in order to essentially treat the same conditions. I'd love for you to comment on this where you think it might be going and you know, whether or not you think that's the right or the wrong approach if it has any validity at all.

2 (54m 11s):
Well it is pharma, it's just smaller pharma sort of startup pharma, but, okay,

1 (54m 15s):
So cuz pharma would like to have drugs that can cure depression but don't make people hallucinate. Is that correct? Oh,

2 (54m 20s):
They would and patients might, and the system would love it because the system is used to it, it's medicine,

1 (54m 27s):
Right. And it doesn't give this this mental imagery of, you know, the summer of love in San Francisco or of, of, you know, kaleidoscope eyes. Right. It's, it's more, yeah, you could imagine the more I have to be careful with my wording here, those who would not be inclined toward that would, might, might embrace a therapeutic that, that is strictly effective at treating depression with no hallucinations. Yeah.

2 (54m 55s):
And it doesn't look like, you know, an individual lying on a sofa, crying their out eyes out about, you know, the life that they've lived and that deep catharsis being life transforming is very different from that model. I'm skeptical of it, I for a few reasons and one is that I, I can't see the logic, I can't see the pieces fit in a way that's compelling. And I'm also skeptical cuz I think it could easily be wishful thinking because of that point that patients would like it and the system would like it and I just, you can't, you gotta bear that in mind as well.

2 (55m 49s):
So wouldn't it be convenient, you know, if it were true and you could get the therapeutic action without the psychedelic effects?

1 (55m 57s):
Well, in a way that's a little bit of what microdosing seems to be designed to do. Yeah. Like you said, take dosages there below that, that perceptual or, you know, awareness of some effect threshold over a longer period of time in an attempt to ping the circuits or twist, you know, alter the circuits but not hallucinate. Yeah. Not have a catharsis. So

2 (56m 18s):
If, if microdosing can do that and it's sub perceptible, then microdosing isn't psychedelic action because where's the psychedelic action when psychedelic, when defined means psyche revealing, you're not getting that effect. You might be getting the pharmacology, you might be getting some direct serotonin to a receptor agonism that could be driving a therapeutic response. But you can get that with SSRIs as well, you know, and so my point is what's, what's new? Okay, maybe it's a bit new and people are now developing direct to a agonists rather than indirect through a serotonin releaser like the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, the SSRIs like Lexapro, you know,

1 (57m 4s):
Are there any SSRIs that selectively agonize, which folks by the way means activate in a good way, A agony sounds terrible to those non form might think that mean that disrupt, but that can activate the serotonin two A receptor. Are there any drugs that will do that that are not psychedelic? I'm not aware of any, but then again, I'm not a psycho pharmacologist. Well

2 (57m 28s):
There are, I mean are there any that are, are licensed and used as medicines in psychiatry? I actually had this debate recently on social media and I couldn't see, I couldn't see a compelling example. I saw two A agonists that we used for other things. You have a compound like lide used in, in treating Parkinson's, but actually it's more of a dopamine agonist.

1 (57m 53s):
They're always hitting other things, right? Yeah.

2 (57m 55s):
They're

1 (57m 56s):
Always say tapping other neuro neurotransmitters

2 (57m 58s):
Systems. There've been for other things. So is there a, is there a selective serotonin to a receptor stimulator, an agonist that it isn't psychedelic that is therapeutic in psychiatry? And the answer firmly is no, I haven't seen it yet. Will they develop one? Well, for patient's sake, I hope so because it would be great, let's wait and see if they do. I doubt it'll be psychedelic and I doubt it would have much to do with psychedelic therapy and it would be much more like the system we are used to of chronic pharmacotherapy, take your drug every day, let's, let's hope they find it and it works for patient's sake.

2 (58m 41s):
But as things stand right now, I'm a little skeptical now some of the findings that are being seen that are really exciting, fantastic work being done showing things like increases in the communication components of neurons, dendritic growth, spine growth, synaptic spine growth. Yeah.

1 (59m 6s):
By the way, folks, just, I'll interrupt for the, not necessarily spine, the bone, you know the, not the cerebral column, but spines are these little like little tiny twigs with bulbs on the end of, of neurons that are allow for communication points between neurons. So neuroplasticity is often associated with growth of dendrites and spines and so forth, which is what, what robin's referring to that, that reminds me, and I just wanna make sure that we closed the hatch on the earlier answer because I interrupted you. Is the increased connectivity between, or communication between brain areas that's observed while people are under the influence of the psychedelic also observed later after the effects of the drug wear off.

1 (59m 46s):
Yeah. And then I'll just throw in another question there because we're onto this topic now. To what extent do we think that neuroplasticity structural changes in neurons, functional changes in neurons are responsible for that? And how long does that last, let's say I take, let's say I come into your clinic, I'm a, I mean subject in your experiment. I take, do come in in the morning, I do my psychedelic journey five to six hours later I'm parachuting back to reality as we call it. And then I go home, increase connectivity lasts for how long and how long are the structural brain changes occurring?

2 (1h 0m 23s):
Well, you're asking fantastic questions and, and partly because we don't have the answer yet, but we do have some, we do have some data and so we have looked at first of all the, in a sense the functional plasticity or what we assume it to be, or at least the functional changes, the increase in communication across systems that increase in global connectivity, functional connectivity. Do we see it after the trip? We know we see it during the trip pretty well replicated, correlating with intense drug effects. Do we see it after the trip? Well, the answer is we've seen it in two different depression cohorts, celly therapy for depression.

2 (1h 1m 4s):
In one study where we looked the next day we saw it a kind of residual effect similar to what you see acutely being seen the next day. And then in a subsequent study we saw it also three weeks later. So we've seen it in two independent data sets. This decrease in modularity is how we measure. It's the same thing essentially. Broadly speaking, it's the same thing. An increase in global connectivity, functional connectivity, and actually unpublished. We've seen it in healthy volunteers on a correlational level, not on an absolute change level, but if you look at its relationship to a mental health outcome, and this is an important thing to stress with the depression work, we saw a relationship between the magnitude of that change, the decrease in modularity or increase in global connectivity and the improvement in symptom severity.

1 (1h 2m 5s):
So interesting. Yeah, I mean what I, and just to state a different way, so what Robin's referring to is when you say modularity as neuroscientists, we think of the the different modular networks of the brain that, you know, the eye talks to a region of the thalamus involved in vision, which talks to the visual cortex, which, you know, eventually converges with auditory information of course. But there's a separation or modularity of function. This increased connectivity is cross modular in during the trip, but afterwards as well. And you're saying that that correlates very strongly with the strength of the therapeutic outcome for depression? Yeah, I mean the, the logical extension of that is that extreme modularity of brain function is depressive in some way.

1 (1h 2m 50s):
Now we don't want to go too far, but what does that mean? That increasing crosstalk between different modules of the brain is so strongly correlated with a positive therapeutic outcome.

2 (1h 3m 3s):
We don't know other than that there's a relationship. I mean this is, this is the thing and we need to be a little careful not to run with it too far. I mean, there's some things that it suggests, I think it suggests a more flexible mode of brain functioning if you are not getting stuck in modules or the modules aren't excessively cut off from each other, but you see different things with, with different presentations. If you were to look at cognition, sharper cognition is actually associated with more modularity. So it does, it's a rule that's a little slippery and we need to be careful with it.

1 (1h 3m 46s):
I I, I just, again, I'll forgive me for interesting, but I think of, I have friends who are, I would say are on the spectrum, who are very linear in their thinking and extremely intelligent in a, in the kind of classic sense of being able to ratchet through hard problems to arrive at a solution. And then I have friends who are, let's just call 'em what they are from the creative communities outside of science that are very expansive. They see connections between many different things, but you sometimes you have to, not all of them, but you have to catch their ideas with a butterfly net. And oftentimes what they're saying doesn't, sometimes just doesn't make any sense. Now they also produce incredible creative works, but to have a conversation with them is anything but a linear experience.

1 (1h 4m 32s):
They're not random thought generators, but there's a non-linearity or randomness to their processing that's distinct from these other folks that I'm describing as on the spectrum. And of course it's a spectrum. There's some, a whole range in between. Yeah, it sounds to me like there is some therapeutic value to being able to move along this continuum from the more linear to the non-linear. Yeah. Is that Is that correct? Well, I

2 (1h 4m 57s):
Think so. Yeah. You're, it's resonating what you're saying. It's speaking to my intuition that, you know, you could be very passy, you know, passing things up, chopping things up, like an analytical scientist, a splitter, like I'm doing

1 (1h 5m 11s):
A bit a splitter, as we say in science. You're either a lumper or a splitter. Yep.

2 (1h 5m 16s):
Or, you know, the way I'm being very particular about what, what, when to call it something psychedelic, you know, that, that kind of pass the analytical way of thinking you would, you might associate with a more modular system, you know, whereas the system that's more globally interconnected and open Yeah. Might be more flexible and creative and divergent in the associations and so on. So yes, that's speaking to my intuition too, how you, you are describing it, and I imagine if you take severe psychopathology, severe mental illness, like a depression, I've always thought that there's something intuitive about the term itself, like a depression in a landscape, you know, which is a whole

1 (1h 5m 59s):
Physical depression. A

2 (1h 5m 60s):
Physical depression that it's easy to fall into. And if you do, it's hard to get outta.

1 (1h 6m 5s):
So, almost, if I understand what you're saying correctly, almost like getting stuck at one location on this continuum, because most people don't reside at one or extreme, one extreme or the other full-time and kind of migrate back and forth between expansive states and more linear states. Yeah.

2 (1h 6m 22s):
Like, like you do with low mood, you know, if you are healthy and inverted coms, you can feel your low mood, your disappointment, but you can spring back, but someone with, and you know,

1 (1h 6m 31s):
You can spring back. Yeah. Right. Whereas the suicidal depressive person or suicidally depressed person, somehow, at least in my understanding there, there's something about the extreme depressive states and extreme anxiety states, something my laboratory is a bit more familiar with anxiety, which alters the perception of time such that people feel like that negative state is going to go on forever, or that if it goes away, that it's going to return at random. Yeah. Kind of a vulnerability to the time domain. Yeah.

2 (1h 7m 10s):
Yeah. That's it. And it, it's so tragic, but that that cognitive bias in depression, that it, everything's hopeless and, and that there is no light at the end of the tunnel. Yeah. So, you know, if you were to get stuck in that rut and have that bias, then you are cutoff from other things, other sensory modalities or modules, you know, cutoff from the world, cutoff from other people, stuck in your inner rut. And so, yes, I think we are sharing this intuition that decrease in modularity or an opening up of the, the system, the brain could relate to an opening up of the mind that is kind of enduring after the, after the psychedelic dosing session.

2 (1h 7m 57s):
And yeah. And, and the third replication was to see in health is an improvement in wellbeing because they're healthy. We don't look at depression.

1 (1h 8m 4s):
So these are people that are healthy walking into the trial. Yeah. Take psilocybin twice.

2 (1h 8m 9s):
Well, actually they do, but the first dose is one milligram, which they, they don't feel it's a placebo dose, quote

1 (1h 8m 17s):
Unquote micro. Yeah.

2 (1h 8m 18s):
We sticky g on their heads to measure their brain waves during each dose. And one milligram, you see no change. So we, I think, I

1 (1h 8m 29s):
Think that you microdose or No, I'm just kidding. I mean, nothing against the micro doses. I've always just been a little bit skeptical based on my conversations with the Yeah. The scientists actually doing the work with, yeah. With, with psychedelics, it seems like the, the answer keeps coming back. Do two, one or two, maybe three macro doses in a controlled, safe setting.

2 (1h 8m 54s):
Well, that's compelling. The evidence for that is compelling and that's what's making all the difference right now. And microdosing is just appealing. But again, you know, science isn't about what we want to believe. It's about what's actually coming through and what seems to hold up, you know, to testing.

LMNT (1h 9m 14s):
I'd like to just take a brief break and thank one of our sponsors, which is element. Element is an electrolyte drink that has everything you need and nothing you don't. That means plenty of salt, sodium, magnesium, and potassium, the so-called electrolytes and no sugar. Now, salt, magnesium, and potassium are critical to the function of all the cells in your body, in particular to the function of your nerve cells, also called neurons. And we now know that even slight reductions in electrolyte concentrations or dehydration of the body can lead to deficits. And cognitive and physical performance element contains a science back to electrolyte ratio of 1000 milligrams. That's one gram of sodium, 200 milligrams of potassium and 60 milligrams of magnesium. I typically drink element first thing in the morning when I wake up in order to hydrate my body and make sure I have enough electrolytes. And while I do any kind of physical training and after physical training as well. Especially if I've been sweating a lot. And certainly I drink element in my water when I'm in the sauna and after going in the sauna, because that causes quite a lot of sweating. If you'd like to try Element, you can go to drink element, that's lmn t.com/huberman to claim a free element sample pack with your purchase. Again, that's drink element LMN t.com/huberman.

2 (1h 10m 26s):
Would you say that's right? That one or two or three sessions? And how, how far apart are those typically spaced in time? Yeah, typically 1, 2, 3 weeks across the sites is the way people are doing the, the psychedelic therapy dosing sessions, two sessions, you know, Hopkins, Imperial, nyu. That's been a kind of default to we, we actually used three in a current anorexia trial, Cy therapy for anorexia, two patients left to to see after 19 who've gone through the trial.

2 (1h 11m 6s):
Very exciting results there.

1 (1h 11m 7s):
You're seeing alleviation of the, the obsessive thought about food, willingness to consume, wait, even healthier amounts of food.

2 (1h 11m 15s):
Yeah. Even I improved weight at the long follow up. So,

1 (1h 11m 19s):
So critical. I, when we did an episode on eating disorders and I learned that anorexia neosa, which by the way folks, the rates of are not increasing. It's been pretty stable through time, despite what's said about social media and et cetera. But anorexia nervosa being the most deadly of all psychiatric illnesses, which is a big statement because, you know, manic depression, so-called bipolar depression has a 20 to 30 times the, the typical suicide rate. Basically many anorexic people with anorexia, I think is how it's now is what one says, not anorexic, but people with anorexia often die.

1 (1h 12m 1s):
Many of them die. Yeah.

2 (1h 12m 3s):
Yeah. So tragic, so often young people as well, and similarly with suicide in terms of premature death. So the tragedy with psychiatry is, is so strong and, and so it's, it's so rewarding to be doing that trial and to be seeing good results. I have to check myself a little bit that I'm, I'm reporting on it in this really promissory way and the trial isn't yet publicly released and, and published, so it's still ongoing as well.

1 (1h 12m 35s):
But that was three do three sessions. It is

2 (1h 12m 37s):
Three sessions, and I can't say what the dosage is because we still have, there is a blinding component, but there are three dosing sessions in there. Let's see now, I think they're two weeks apart. And we do the follow up. Yes.

1 (1h 12m 56s):
I'd like to close out this description of the, of the journey and the trip by extending past the day when people actually take the drug into this, what I've heard described as the integration phase. You know, you have to reintegrate, right? I mean all this la all this increased connectivity during the session, hallucinations, insights, anxiety, letting go, maybe revelation, maybe epiphany. Okay, great. At what point is that consolidated? Meaning are these patients or subjects in studies having daily conversation with their therapist? Are they journaling every day?

1 (1h 13m 36s):
And, you know, I want to keep in mind that most people are not going to be part of a clinical trial. And of course here we're not suggesting what people do or not do, but let's just put it this way. Were people to use psychedelics. W w what is the way that people can maximize on the neuroplasticity and the brain changes in a positive way in the days and weeks afterwards. In other words, how long does this so-called integration last? And you know, what, how far can we take this? I mean, I could imagine that how often one chooses to think about the insights could also have an impact. Yeah. Right.

1 (1h 14m 16s):
Because clearly people went to raves, clearly people did psychedelics in the sixties. We don't know if, clearly people do psychedelics now, but we don't have data on those people. You have access to the understanding of how they're spending their time and the therapeutic outcomes, which we haven't gotten to the numbers yet, but again, are are incredibly impressive, you know, in upwards of, as I understand, it's 60% or more people getting re relief from depression. Yeah.

2 (1h 14m 42s):
70. Yeah,

1 (1h 14m 42s):
70% incredible. Especially when compared to the typical antidepressant treatments and and so on. So what is this business of integration? How is it done properly? Yeah,

2 (1h 14m 56s):
Yeah. Gosh. Well, how long does it last as well? A lifetime, you know, life is a journey. Like a trip is a, a journey and there's always work to do, you know, as Jack Cornfield says, after the ecstasy, the laundry, and

1 (1h 15m 14s):
I love

2 (1h 15m 14s):
That. Yeah. There's, there'll be other good ones as well. I forget them. But yeah, so the work's ongoing and, and, and the yeah, but this gives you a foot up. It, it enables people to do the work more easily. And, and that's true of the classic psychedelics. It's also true, very true of M D M A therapy for post-traumatic stress disorder. It's really giving you a leg up, making it easier to do very, very difficult work, going back to a trauma, trying to digest it, process it, integrate it. So it's a such an essential component of the treatment model.

2 (1h 15m 60s):
But one has to be realistic as well. So, you know, by saying our integration lasts a lifetime. Well, people delivering a service can't be there for a lifetime. So what's the answer there? And people are wrestling with that issue right now. And I, I think one of the solutions might be that it, it's in a sense on you to a point, you know, the therapeutic team can treat you to a point, and then it becomes what you might call practice in a similar way that meditation is a practice, it's something that you have to keep up.

2 (1h 16m 40s):
And if it slips, then things could slip and, and that's the way it is. Or you have a, another psychedelic treatment, you know, so people have even used this term of practice in relation to psychedelics where there's a psychedelic practice, like there's, you know, a meditation practice, but I'm using meditation intentionally here because they actually think that meditative practice, spiritual practice, elements of spiritual practice could be a very important compliment to psychedelic therapy.

2 (1h 17m 23s):
And I think it's probably doing something similar in terms of promoting an ability to sit with a former colleague of mine said it quite well in relation to psychedelic therapy versus chronic pharmacotherapy or like SSRIs being on them all the time. So psychedelic therapy allows you to sit with rather than sit on. And I thought that's quite good. Yeah. So, you know, the meditation, the mindfulness, the ability to yes, be present centered, but also present centered and accepting. So if things come up, you can watch and process and then let go

1 (1h 18m 7s):
That holy grail of, of mindfulness. Yeah. You know, you know, awareness without reactivity respond. You know, I, I grew up in the Bay Area and you'd hear this language, right? And I'm not being disparaging this. I have friends that are on the board of Eslan and work down there, you know, and I've gone there and it's, you know, and yet you hear these terms, right? Be responsive, not reactive, which to a neuroscientist is like grates on me, which probably just means I have issues, but, and surely I do. But you know, li what does that mean, right? It's sort of saying like, oh, to a be the observer, but not be drawn into the experience. You know? And, and again, I don't wanna be overly reductionist, but what, what I find so compelling about the emerging data, cause it really is data on psychedelics as treatments for depression and trauma, namely psilocybin and M D M A, is that it really seems to allow people this space that that is so commonly thrown around, you know, giving space between stimulus and reaction.

1 (1h 19m 9s):
I mean, Victor Frankl talked about this, but you know, was talk, I've been reading a wonderful book called The Prince of Medicine, good, good Dates back to the Origins of Medicine, very dense book. People been talking about this stuff and thinking about this stuff for thousands of years, psychedelics seem to give people access to that better version of self, which is remarkable. What's also remarkable, it's perhaps worth pointing out, is that five years ago, I never would've been comfortable having this conversation. I would've been afraid to lose my job. Stanford magazine this week just published an entire issue about psychedelics with how ketamine works, M D M A psilocybin with the appropriate cautionary notes in there. But clearly times are changing.

1 (1h 19m 50s):
Speaking of which I know you're doing a trial on first time use of psychedelics. What inspired that and what are you observing? And as you tell us that, please give us a few of the, the key contours. What's the dose? How old are these subjects? I'm assuming it's men and women. Are they suffering from depression or not? Well, kind of. What, what's the landscape of that study? And I I I realize this is still early days of the study, or maybe it's close to completion. It's not yet published, however, correct. It's

2 (1h 20m 22s):
Not, it's not published, it's not submitted, it is completed. So this was one of another one of our covid studies in a sense, meaning covid hit and we had to finish the study and it was hard to finish the study because of Covid. That was true of our celly therapy versus Prim Lexapro trial, which is published New England Journal Medicine. But the,

1 (1h 20m 45s):
This was 20 that paper by the way, folks will provide a link to, in the show note captions as well as some of Robin's other papers. I think the 2022 New England Journal paper is really fabulous given it's the different dosages and the comparison to essentially what is microdosing and the comparison to satra.

2 (1h 21m 4s):
Yeah, that's interesting that you, you link the way we go, small doses of suici to microdosing, we didn't think of it that way. We thought it was just a necessary placebo for the big, big dose, the 25 milligrams that Yeah. And so that we could say to everyone, we're giving you suici and not be lying. Yeah. For those who got Estella Lexapro for six weeks, they, they got a very, very low dose of psilocybin, but it allowed us to standardize all the psychotherapy and so on. But the, the other study that you're referring to was in health healthy volunteers, middle-aged average age I think was 40.

2 (1h 21m 44s):
So not your typical student study. That is so often the case in psychology research, you know, all, all the undergrads end up volunteering for your study. So this is more, more of an age range. And also I think it was an equal proportion of male and female. All the staff actually were female, which the staff were very proud of. And

1 (1h 22m 7s):
Although it produces its own potential confound, right, to have all one one sex of, of, of staff possibly.

2 (1h 22m 15s):
Yeah. They did a good job in the sense that we saw significant improvements in wellbeing at the end of the trial. So let me describe the design. It was a repeated measures design, meaning people come in, you collect your baseline data and do a brain scan and you give people a placebo. We gave people a placebo. And actually, let me rewind a little bit. Everyone's healthy volunteers, middle-aged, never taken a psychedelic in their life, none of them entirely, you know, fresh virgin people coming in and, and the plan is to give them their first ever psychedelic experience. So that's what we did in this study.

2 (1h 22m 56s):
But to do it, we have this repeated measures design where they'll first get a placebo and we have the placebo so that we can do all the procedures, all the therapy, all the music listening, but not give a whopping dose of suici. We, again, we gave them a placebo dose of suici one milligram. We stick eg headsets on during the experience to record the brain activity from the scalp, the oscillating electrical activity. And we do the MRI scanning before and after to see deeper into the brain. And we can look at the functional connectivity that we were referring to earlier, and also properties of brain anatomy, which we did in this study.

2 (1h 23m 40s):
So the, the short story is that all of the changes that we saw both psychologically and neurobiologically were seen with the 25 milligrams. It all happened with that big whopping dose. And what did we see? Well, we did see significant improvements in psychological wellbeing. We saw what I call the entropic brain effect, which is actually formally quite a accurate, we see an increase in the informational complexity of ongoing brain activity recorded with the EEG on the dose of psilocybin. The, the activity becomes more complex.

2 (1h 24m 22s):
It's harder to predict across time. It's more informationally rich. And that effect correlates as it does very reliably with the magnitude of the subjective effect. So the bigger the trip, the bigger the centropic brain effect now pretty well replicated finding. But then the mr the MRI seeing deep into the brain was probably our most exciting result where we didn't just see some functional brain changes, but we've seen some anatomical brain changes as well. And we used a technique called diffusion tensor imaging that looks at the cabling of the brain, the white matter tracts.

2 (1h 25m 4s):
And we saw a change in major tracts. So we, we sort of limited our search space to really thick tracts, really thick fibers. And the fibers that came through as changing were ones that traveled between the prefrontal cortex and, and the thalamus and the striatum. There were two tracks, two prefrontal tracks that changed and they changed in the direction of the decrease in axial diffusivity were, which could be interpreted as tracted integrity, where a decrease would be an increase in tract integrity.

2 (1h 25m 44s):
It is something that you see in the developing brain that axial diffusivity decreases as a brain goes from being a baby to being a adult axial diffusivity goes down, and then in aging and pathologies of aging, axial diffusivity goes up. So we,

1 (1h 26m 3s):
This is in the opposite direction of, of the results you talked about earlier in terms of brain connectivity of a sort of increased communication across areas. If I understand correctly, and I'm perfectly happy to be wrong by the way, that this decrease in axial diffusivity is translates to a higher fidelity of communication between the prefrontal cortex and the thalamus and striatum as opposed to less. And your description of this is somewhat like the, the transition from babyhood and childhood to adulthood speaks to the same, where we know that there's a massive culling of connections as opposed to growth of connections.

1 (1h 26m 43s):
So in other words, as we get older, we get better at doing certain things and less good at doing potentially most everything else. Is that right?

2 (1h 26m 52s):
Ish? Because the, the change was anatomical and not functional. So the other stuff was, is really measuring communication in, in the brain by looking at how the activity fluctuates across time and whether those fluctuations in activity are synchronous between regions. And if they are, we say they're functionally connected and we infer that they're talking to each other cuz they go up and down in synchrony. But when it comes to the anatomy, we are talking about the just static, you know, material stuff. And so we are seeing the fibers and a property of the fibers change.

2 (1h 27m 37s):
At least that's what we think. And recently we had an independent person come in and reanalyze the data. Cuz you know, one of those things incredible finding requires, you know, credible evidence, really strong evidence. And, and I would say the evidence at the moment is one study, so we need to be cautious on that. But we did reanalyze it and use this correction procedure, free water correction to be more sure that it was a change in, in the actual microstructure rather than something to do with the ex extracellular space, the, the water surrounding the fibers.

2 (1h 28m 17s):
And it came through, I, in fact, the, the change was strengthened by doing this correction step.

1 (1h 28m 24s):
So these are, are, this is neuroplasticity as the consequence of one first time session with 25 milligrams of psilocybin. Yeah,

2 (1h 28m 33s):
Yeah. So we're excited and, and the two, understandably so the two different, yeah, no, the second analyst coming in wasn't sure she believed it and then she, you know, thought this correction technique might kind of kill the result. And then it came through and, and she's like, okay, now I'm excited too. So we'll see. We dunno what it means. What, what does it mean functionally we don't know. How did the people change? Well, psychologically, as I said, wellbeing improved. We did look at their cognition and we used a, a cognitive flexibility paradigm that looks at people's ability to notice a rule change and then flexibly adapt their behavior based on noticing this rule change.

2 (1h 29m 16s):
And people improved after the 25 milligrams and didn't significantly improve after the placebo dose. There weren't correlations with the, the d t I change the, the cabling change and these psychological outcomes. But, you know, with these studies in smaller sample sizes, you don't always see those correlations come through. So it's something we don't know what it means, but it's, it's a change in brain anatomy that's in the opposite direction to what you see in an aging brain or with pathology of aging. And it's what you see in a healthy brain as it goes from, you know, normal neurodevelopment into adulthood.

1 (1h 29m 59s):
Very, very exciting and intriguing and I appreciate that you highlighted that. It's just one study, although from everything you've said, it sounds like it's been done with immense rigor. So we will eagerly await the publication of that study and so we can peruse all the data and, and the subsequent studies. I want to hear a bit about the study that you have been carrying out on the use of psilocybin for the treatment of fibromyalgia. I'm intrigued by fibromyalgia because, because I have a good friend who also, I won't reveal who it is and no, it's not me, this isn't, I have a friend thing who also is a scientist who's sits at a fairly high position in the National Institutes of Health, who quietly has expressed to me that they are incredibly frustrated with the fact that the standard medical community has largely ignored fibromyalgia.

1 (1h 30m 53s):
And that for many years it was kind of lumped with things like chronic fatigue syndrome and other so-called, again, so-called, I'm not saying this, but people often refer to these as, oh, it's psychosomatic that's all in your head, which is a neuroscientist is a ridiculous statement to hear because it's all in your head. Your brain is in your head after all your physiology and your psychology are influencing each other, of course. And, and the, the world is starting to appreciate that more. But first of all, maybe you could tell people what fibromyalgia is, what inspired you to do a study on fibromyalgia using psilocybin of all things. Cuz that's surprising to me. And if you are allowed to, or if you have access to the data in in mind, share with us a little bit about what you're discovering in that, in that study.

2 (1h 31m 40s):
Sure, yeah, happy to. So again, it's Saab in therapy and the population is fibromyalgia syndrome. So this is people presenting with a generalized chronic pain. So unlike some other pain disorders where the pain is focused, you can say it's my lower back, which is very common, chronic, lower back pain. This is more generalized and it, and for that reason it's hard to sort of know what it is. And, and that's why it's been a controversial space in medicine and it's been, yeah, it's had that charge thrown at it that maybe it's psychosomatic. And just to your point, is anything ever, you know, independent of, of the mind anyway.

2 (1h 32m 26s):
But this is actually a fascinating space for how, you know, subjective experience, the lived experience and the mind can influence the body. Because there's some really interesting literature around the etiology, like the, how the pain has come about in a sense. Like what caused the pain, what's the story there? And ahead of the trial I would say to my colleagues, let's just be careful because there is some fascinating literature around things like a background of trauma and how it, that can relate to issues related to inflammation and how that can express into things like fibromyalgia syndrome.

2 (1h 33m 16s):
I just said be very careful there because if you go in with an assumption that there's some very trauma for example, then there's that whole other side of psychoanalysis that massively tripped it up around false memory and so on. And so please don't hold prior assumptions that you're gonna uncover Barry trauma in every case. Now the team have treated I think eight people and it's going, it is going very well. Again, I just wanna be careful with how I describe it to ma, you know, to manage expectations and not get too carried away. But I check in with the team every week and they're still based in London doing the work.

2 (1h 34m 2s):
And it's remarkable what I hear about the profound experiences that people have under the drug. In this study we only give one dose, it's a very mechanistic study. We actually have the EG cap on in the sessions like in the healthy volunteer study, but this time now taking into a clinical population. And

1 (1h 34m 27s):
So they're in the I they're, they are wearing an eye mask under the influence of 25 milligrams of psilocybin. Most of them probably have not done psilocybin before. So it's a little bit like the first time study. In some sense they have fibromyalgia that's debilitating in some way. They, they don't, they want, they don't want it obviously. And during the session are they thinking about their pain? Are they being told to think about their pain? They're

2 (1h 34m 58s):
Not being told to think about the pain in, in fact, as I understand it, while there is a therapeutic model around acceptance of the pain, it isn't un, unlike some of the P T S D work, you aren't encouraging them to focus on, you know, the index trauma and then, you know, work through it and try and digest it. We don't, we don't do that with the pain. So the pain's there but there isn't an invitation to focus on it. And that's probably one of the differences with classic psychedelic therapy versus M D M A therapy, arguably M D M A therapies more like it's a bit closer to traditional torque therapy where there is more dialogue, people are able to talk on M D M A

1 (1h 35m 45s):
In the M D M A trials, do you know whether or not they used I masks or, because this seems to be an important distinction between, as you described, the therapeutic trip versus the trip that one does, you know, going into the woods and taking sil, you know, taking psilocybin in the woods or at a party or while staring at a poster or, or a, or a leaf. Again, I'm not trying to trivialize those experiences. I mean obviously they can be profound, but so I'm told but the MDM a trials seem to involve, as you said, more more directed dialogue and sometimes even kind of empathic connection between people by they're actually looking at one another.

1 (1h 36m 34s):
You know, the eyes and eye contact being such a key part of the human social cognitive connective networks. So do you know if they put eye masks on people during the therapeutic

2 (1h 36m 47s):
Session? I'm pretty sure that they have the eye masks there,

1 (1h 36m 51s):
Right? Because a lot of the M D M A work and I was part of an M D M A trial, it was as I understand, geared toward developing because it's an empathogen empathy toward the self. Yeah, yeah.

2 (1h 37m 4s):
So I'm pretty sure they have the eye masks there, but they probably, and it's a great question because you could formally test this if probably don't use them as much. The thing is with the classic psychedelics, if you're looking at your guides, your facilitators and their faces are melting or whatever, you

1 (1h 37m 21s):
Know, on M D M A, you just might really start to feel more connected to Yeah. They might

2 (1h 37m 26s):
Look especially beautiful and, you know Sure. Yeah. And, and yeah, there's that, that fascinating effect of loving, you know, the people that you are with. And so, yeah, I, I imagine they talk more and use the eye shades less and it is more interpersonal rather than like intrapersonal or going inside. They do use a fascinating terminology that some people have critiqued. But it is a very interesting phenomenon and, and it's this notion of the inner inner healer. They use that, that language a lot. It's been critiqued cuz it sounds very suggestive, you know, and that's probably one of the vehicles here driving the therapeutic process is suggestion.

2 (1h 38m 9s):
I think we have to be honest about that. But so when they go inside, that's another term that we use very much in the classic psychedelic therapy work. You go inside, you know, you put the eye shades on and people are encouraged to go inside, you know, but when they do that in the M D M A work, especially, they might be told explicitly and listened to the inner inner healer, you know, in that kind of language. So you could see how a, a cynic or a skeptic could come in and and see that as some kind of like suggestive priming or biasing. I think they, they have a point skeptics often do, but I, I don't think it, it's all of the story.

2 (1h 38m 54s):
And, and just briefly, cuz it's an interesting point, speaking to that point a bit, in our celly therapy versus PRI trial, we measured pretrial expectancy and we did it for both conditions. So, you know, what kind of improvement do you expect with the Lexapro, the prim at the end of the trial, and what kind of improvement? If you go into the celly arm and get a big two big doses of celly, what kind of improvement do you think you'll see in that? In, in that arm? And, and of course it was a coin flip as to what arm people went into and there was no crossover.

2 (1h 39m 36s):
And what we found was that it was true that we had a, a sample bias. So most people had higher expectations on average there were higher expectations for psilocybin and its efficacy or effectiveness versus the ssri, the Lexapro. However, when we looked at the correlation or the predictive relationship between pretrial expectancy and response, we saw the pretrial expectancy for the esce teleram predicted response to esce teleram across virtually every single measure, all these different measures of depression and anxiety and wellbeing.

2 (1h 40m 18s):
And, and I think none of the scales, I'm pretty sure it was none of about 12 or so mental health rating scales, was there a relationship between pretrial expectancy, even though it was high, it didn't predict pretrial expectancy, didn't predict response to the celly therapy. So that was a bit of a, you know, smash on the head for the idea that that classic psychedelic therapy is some kind of placebo response. And I think it's so important to address that question because if it doesn't come through as it didn't, as it didn't come through, then it, it opens up even more intrigue about, well what is it then If it's not just a placebo response or a super placebo response, like an amplification of the placebo response, then it must be something else.

2 (1h 41m 14s):
And how intriguing it has a direct therapeutic action, it must be something and we don't yet know what it is. I talked about the, the residual, you know, increase in global connectivity. That's one possibility. But the truth is we're we're just scratching the surface

1 (1h 41m 33s):
And yet the therapeutic outcomes are again, just so marvelous, marvelously impressive. I'm curious as to why, well, there aren't that many labs, but the, the laboratories that are focused on classic psychedelics for the treatment of depression and, and now as you mentioned, promising results for anorexia and fibromyalgia as well, although preliminary pro. Yeah. Very promising. Why the lack of attention toward L S D? Is it that the L S D trips are just too long? Is it that they are qualitatively different? Are there any data on non micro doses of lsd?

1 (1h 42m 14s):
And here I wanna be very careful because I, I learned through by interactions on social media that this term micro doses very misleading and in some cases can be dangerously misleading because as you mentioned earlier, the effective psychedelic dose or you know, the effective meaning that can induce a a, a real trip with hallucinations, et cetera of L S D is actually in the microgram range. Hmm. So some people hear microdose and they think microgram of LSD is a micrograms is a microdose when in fact a macro dose of LSD can be measured in micrograms. Yeah. Right. So this is where, you know, in the absence of scientific training, people can really go, go astray or even in, just in lack of understanding of the metric system.

1 (1h 43m 2s):
Hmm. And since now you're a Yeah, you're a recent rival to the us fortunate for us, sorry, England's loss is the, is the USS gained by Robin's lab moved from, from England to the United States recently. So score one for us, but why isn't there more use of L S D in these trials?

2 (1h 43m 25s):
I think it, it probably is the duration of the trip. It used to be stigma and it was easier to get your psilocybin study through because others were, they were getting that through. So there was still like some Franz vide or in Zurich in Switzerland, and then Roland Griffiths coming along and doing the soy work at Hopkins. So you could appeal to that presidents and say, well they're doing it over there, you know, can we not do it in, in little England? So that's how it worked for us. We did actually go on and, and do an L S D study once we'd kind of laid the foundations for doing this kind of work.

2 (1h 44m 7s):
And it was a brain imaging study. It was a really extensive one actually, where we use both MRI and another modality called m e g, sort of super EG in a sense. But, you know, why didn't we, why didn't that turn our heads to think, oh, should we not be doing our trials with L S D? It's, it does have something to do with the pragmatics. Like a study day with psilocybin is long enough,

1 (1h 44m 35s):
It's a four to six hour trip.

2 (1h 44m 37s):
Yeah. And the FDA ask us to have the people in the lab and until eight hours post dose with personally I think could be quite excessive. Especially if it's a low dose. And you know, if you have that in the placebo condition as well, it becomes, it's a long day impractical.

1 (1h 44m 57s):
Yeah. Scientists are not paid nearly enough to warrant the, there's no such thing as overtime in for the graduate students in postdocs. Yeah.

2 (1h 45m 5s):
It's often that those, you know, more junior members that are doing that really hard work.

1 (1h 45m 9s):
I, it was described very well to me by a, a student when I was a, a graduate student said to me, they really can't afford to pay us by the hour because we used to work, he was a electrophysiologist, so he would run experiments, no joke folks, three to five day experiments sleeping in bouts of two hours here or there in a dark room with a bunch of equipment and recordings. So these are long, long acute physi physiological electrophysiological recordings. So yeah, no, no scientist does it for the money. I promise you that there's money in pharma. There is not money in personal income. It's not lucrative if we're the basic scientist.

1 (1h 45m 53s):
So, yeah. So L S D is what, anywhere from eight to 15 hours, something like that. Yeah,

2 (1h 45m 58s):
15 would be a little long. You'd be a bit worried if you were still tripping at that time. Maybe with a really big dose.

1 (1h 46m 3s):
Oops. No, just kidding.

2 (1h 46m 6s):
But yeah, eight hours plus and dose dependent. Yeah. If it's a bigger dose, it's a, a longer experience. But you know, if you're gonna dose UHD, say, you know, 10:00 AM in the morning, which is more or less how it often goes, then at 6:00 PM still feeling the effects. And then how long do you wait now to kind of close things out before they can go home? Even with soy, you have people still at work into the evening and the staff were always there later of course, cuz they gotta pack up and yeah. So these are long days and it, and it, it's just, it, it, it's too much. You know, I

1 (1h 46m 45s):
Mean that makes sense. You know, practical is constraints. I learned from a, a recent guest on this podcast that we recorded with Dr. Satchi and Panda, who was a colleague of mine when I was down at the Salt Institute, has pioneered a lot of the studies on so-called intermittent fasting that the reason the intermittent fa that that the eating period in these studies in animals and now on humans is eight hours the sort of feeding window in these sizes because the graduate student was going to otherwise lose their relationship because their significant other says, listen, you can be in the lab for 12 hours, that meant some hours before the experiment, then eight hours and then some hours afterwards. But you can't stay in there longer. And, and many people use the eight hour feeding window as a consequence.

1 (1h 47m 27s):
So the science has to exist and, and be carried out in real world frame. It does, yeah, it does. MDMA is a little bit, a little bit shorter, right? It's about a four to, it's also about four to six hours,

2 (1h 47m 39s):
Correct? Yeah. It's kind of similar to celly. Yeah, it is. And actually in the maps work, they redose after a certain point or

1 (1h 47m 45s):
The boost the booster,

2 (1h 47m 46s):
They have a booster or optional booster. Yeah. So, so there is that, and now people are thinking, well even these solar Sabin sessions are long and expensive and if you have to have two staff members there all the time, that's expensive. That's where most of the expense is, is in the staffing. So can we abridge the experience, make it shorter, and get away with it and get, get similar kind of therapeutic outcomes. So there's a lot of interest in that direction.

1 (1h 48m 18s):
May I ask about, sorry to interrupt, but I wanna make sure I don't forget to ask about combination psilocybin M D M A therapies. The reason I ask about this is, and here truly not me, but I know people who do self-administered combination psilocybin and M D M A, I think I have this right, I think it's called a hippie flip. There's another one that involves LSD too. Again, I'm not suggesting people do these kind of drug combinations, but the way it was described to me was that the psilocybin, because it's so serotonergic sometimes can be not a downer, but can have a bit of a kind of a kind of a murky feel to it.

1 (1h 48m 60s):
Some real deep introspection sometimes in the, the darker realms of one's psyche depressive thoughts, et cetera. Not that it necessarily stays that way throughout the trip, but that the M D M A, because it has a very strongly serotonergic, but also dopaminergic, I mean, so it has an amphetamine component, a cocaine, like in fact, if you've ever seen someone in an M D M A, their pupils are about the size of, of, of quarters for a reason. They're in, in, you know, extremely extreme autonomic arousal compared to a sedative, which by the way would constrict the pupils. So they described the use of M D M A to kind of balance out the kind of affect component of it.

1 (1h 49m 43s):
What are your thoughts on combination psilocybin mdm a, does this hold any therapeutic potential? This is obviously a backyard chemistry in the sense that people are, or you know, kind of cowboying this stuff on their own. Which again, I don't really recommend, I like to see the science go first, but I understand this is how it works in the real world. Yeah, yeah. What are, what are your thoughts on combining compounds? Yeah,

2 (1h 50m 6s):
Well I guess they're cowboying it in recreational context, but also underground therapists do work with this combo.

1 (1h 50m 14s):
That's what I'm referring to. Yeah. Sorry, I'm not talking about people partying with this stuff. I'm talking about, there are thousands now of therapists that offer psychedelic therapies illegally, really? Cuz it's not legal, at least not in the US to possess or sell, but that are doing this. Yeah. So that's really why I'm asking. Yeah,

2 (1h 50m 32s):
Yeah. And, and you know, I think there's something to be said for, well it has to be careful with this as a scientist, but you know, if they're doing it, are they using some kind of trial and error? The same is true of course with the, you know, longer history of psychedelic plant medicine use of by plants. We include the fungi as well. So in the extended sense plants, you know, there will have been trial and error there. It might not be as systematic as the science we do today, but maybe there's been a learning process and maybe what they do, they've come to because they found it works. So by that principle, I'm interested in that combination and whether it does offer some advantages, maybe in certain patients, you know, if we, one of the buzz terms in medicine these days is precision medicine.

2 (1h 51m 23s):
Precision medicine and personalized medicine. So maybe there are certain cases where, you know, introducing, say psilocybin after the M D M A or the other way around could offer some advantages. And the differences are interesting. You know, psilocybin can get you to deep places. Maybe you know, the kernel of your suffering and, and major life experiences and complexes that are causally linked to whatever the pathology that you're presenting with. But it can do it sometimes quite aggressively, you know, and if it's say, post-traumatic stress disorder, it can be overwhelming and you can fight it.

2 (1h 52m 13s):
And really it's that it's that, you know, the resistance is really challenged and they fight back and the therapeutic breakthrough and the progress isn't happening because you've agitated the defense mechanisms. Whereas what M D M A offers is something arguably more directionally reliable in terms of, in terms of the valence, like it's more directionally positive, generally an MDM a experience,

1 (1h 52m 43s):
Hard to have a bad time on m d

2 (1h 52m 45s):
Yeah, yeah. To,

1 (1h 52m 46s):
To be quite blunt. I mean, but one of the concerns I, I had with M D M A, I've never done IT Recreation. I have had not, and have not ever done it recreationally. But when it was done in this therapeutic setting, I realized because there was music on at the beginning, I asked, I actually asked them to turn it off because I realized that the, the music was becoming such an attractor to my attention that I suddenly was starting to think about music and my love of music, which was not the focus of the session that I had saw was there, you know, for, and I'm glad that they did turn the music off because the moment they did, I was able to drop in within the IASS to this, the sort of go inward and address some certain issues that at least to me felt key and productive.

1 (1h 53m 27s):
So that seems to be the kind of hazard with M D M A is that it's such an empathogen that one could start to, you could go down any number of different rabbit holes. Yeah,

2 (1h 53m 40s):
Yeah. But, but it's also, it's a strength because you, well, you know, the classics like psilocybin can take you there very reliably, but maybe a bit aggressively. M D M A makes it easier to go there. And, and that's its strength. And that's why that marriage of M D M A therapy for P T S D in particular is a, is a good combo. It works because you are gonna go there in a sense. You have to, to really make the therapeutic progress, you're gonna have to go back there. But we're, we are gonna set it up so that you can go back there and feel safer and, and more trusting and be able to go back there, whereas you've never otherwise been able to go back there without, you know, dissociating or having, you know, horrible flashbacks and so on.

2 (1h 54m 31s):
So that's the strength that it offers. I guess the limitation would be that maybe it doesn't take you as deep as the classic psychedelics, and I tend to think I'm biased on this one, that there's a kind of honesty to the classics in that it is, it is hell as well as heaven, you know, and that's the psyche. It is in all roses. And you know,

1 (1h 54m 55s):
I I I really appreciate that you bring that up because I think that there's such a fear of so-called bad trips. There's such a fear in non psychedelic states to, to avoid the, the painful and everything, everything we know from trauma and the treatment of trauma. And we've had several guests on here, my close colleague, close close colleague at Stanford, Dr. David Spiegal, associate chair of psychiatry, clinical hypnotists, amazing, amazing human being and scientists and clinician is as really just, you know, like embedded this in my mind that the only way to deal with trauma is to get right up next to that trauma, to the point where some relief is experienced.

1 (1h 55m 38s):
There is no other real way. And so I really appreciate that you're saying that, saying that the classic psychedelics may offer the, the, with a very strong nudge, perhaps the opportunity to get into the, the uncomfortable in a way that M D M A or some non-classical psychedelics perhaps did not. We were talking about timeframes or, or duration of trips and these different compounds and how they differ and how they're similar. I'd love for you to educate me on DMT and some of the work that you're doing with dmt. My understanding is that it's a very brief trip minutes, people I know who have done this again, therapeutically.

1 (1h 56m 19s):
Actually I'll just point to one very exciting, I think group and initiative, which is the Veterans Solutions Initiative, which is a group, this is carried out in Mexico, but in conjunction with laboratories at Stanford and elsewhere who are evaluating the neural changes. And this involves iboga, which is iboga, which is a very long duration, psychedelic 22 hours or more, followed by a, I think one or two doses of D M T, this is for veterans with, to deal with any number of issues, appears to be working with great success. And I've spoken to several of people who've gone through this. And the way that they described D M T almost across the board was quote, here, I'm just pulling quotes, right?

1 (1h 57m 2s):
An data, the most profound experience of my entire life, even greater than the birth of my children. Hmm. Quote like being attached to the shockwave of an atom bomb. Hmm. Quote, there's no way I would do another dose because the first one was so unbelievable. Interesting. By the way, I think most of us, including me, would think, why wouldn't you want to do it again then? But this idea that that was just beyond anything. So these are significant, excuse me, these are significant statements coming from individuals who have existed at the extremes of human experience to begin with. Right? These are so-called tier one operators within special operations who exit and may or may not have trauma.

1 (1h 57m 46s):
But D M T sounds like a big deal.

2 (1h 57m 51s):
Yeah.

1 (1h 57m 51s):
Short duration, really big deal. What do we know about its chemistry? What do we know about how it's impacting brain networks and what in the world is going on that people are describing it as the ways I just mentioned a few moments ago. Yeah,

2 (1h 58m 6s):
Yeah. It's, it's, it's a rocket ship. If, if the celly is like a ship leaving port, then yeah, this is, this is a rocket ship into craziness. Is

1 (1h 58m 20s):
It five eight? Is it serotonin two A?

2 (1h 58m 22s):
It it is, yeah. So it is a classic psychedelic, it's a direct agonist, a direct stimulator of the serotonin two A receptor. It's a, an order of magnitude less potent than celly. But potency is a funny thing because it's dose dependent. So that doesn't mean that the experience with DMT is less than that of psilocybin. It's just that you give more of the drug. But it has, that's matched by, its its stickiness for the serotonin to a receptor, which is this kind of golden ruling in psychedelic sciences that it was discovered in the mid 1980s. This tight relationship between the affinity or the stickiness or the binding potential of a psychedelic for the two A receptor, in particular, serotonin two A and its potency and the stickier the drug, the more potent, so LSD really sticky, very, very potent.

2 (1h 59m 16s):
You only need those tiny microgram doses. So d m t by its affinity is, is a little less potent, but by its effects when you give a standard dose, it's just in in, it's just wild. And D M T, because there's another compound called five methoxy dmt, which is a bit different pharmacologically and subjectively, it's it similar in terms of its kinetics. It's another rocket ship. Both compounds in the wild, so to speak are smoked often.

2 (1h 59m 57s):
T m T and five m e o people are vaping. Both actually. Now there are vape vape pens that have been developed for people to administer, administer this. But more traditionally it's been a smoking thing. This

1 (2h 0m 12s):
Is clinically not recreationally or both?

2 (2h 0m 16s):
Both. Now. I mean, you know, underground practitioners are using the vape pens. They like them because people titrate the dosage. They get a feel for what it is to be going into this state so that they feel they can let go and go into it. But, and actually I think some of the veterans work might be giving five m e o after the, I began phenomenologically. If there's a difference between d m T and five m e o people might put it on five m e o being more of a reliable ego dissolution experience, less visual and more kind of all round immersion in the greater whole loss of self-identity and just immersion in everything.

1 (2h 1m 4s):
Yeah. Maybe we could just talk about ego dissolution for a second. Cause such a sticky, interesting idea. I can take a step back as a neuroscientist and, and say, okay, ego dissolution this idea that the, that, you know, from a very early age, we have a concept of self and that, you know, I wake up every morning and I know I'm me and not somebody else. And presumably you do the same. And most most people do the same, I would hope. But that, and that there are objects in the world and people in the world beyond us. But every time I hear about ego dissolution, it sounds like it's a kind of a temporary elimination of the, of the idea that things stop and start and stop between us and everything else.

1 (2h 1m 48s):
Almost like, you know, in a kind of a, here I'm not trying to sound philosophical or metaphysical, but there, there's sort of the molecular continuity of, of life, right? We're all at all just little, little bits, which is true. Which is true. Right? Not a functional way to go through the day, right? Because you wanna make a cup of coffee, you don't really want to get lost in that if your goal is to make a cup of coffee. But, but, you know, what is the, the, what is the power of ego dissolution? Is it the idea that we bel that we like belong? Is it a sense of meaning? Yeah. Is it the sense that we're, we're not as important as we think, which of course could be a wonderfully useful way to go through life, you know, to, to think that we're not as in as imp like we're, we are vitally important, but we're not the only thing, right?

1 (2h 2m 37s):
Because I do believe connection is vital as most people do. What is ego dissolution and why would this serotonin two a activation cause that, that's remarkable. Yeah.

2 (2h 2m 51s):
Great questions. I mean, what, what is it, you alluded to it with the start stop. I think, you know, because you could define it by boundaries in a sense. What it, what isn't me? I is as valid here as, as the, you know, a developing sense of what is me that a child develops at whatever age. And so a, a major characteristic of the ego, dissolution, ex experience, rather than just a negative a thing going away. My sense of self going away is, is the positive. Oh, now I feel interconnected with other people in the wor world at large.

2 (2h 3m 34s):
And I realize, you know, that there is that molecular continuity and actually that's a ground truth. And oh, maybe the ego thing is somewhat elusory or at least the construction of my mind.

1 (2h 3m 48s):
And indeed it is, right? I mean, well

2 (2h 3m 50s):
It is, yeah. I mean there's no transcendentalism about that. It's just like logic.

1 (2h 3m 57s):
I think about about it a little bit like family. I mean, we all know what immediate family is, but you know, it's sort of like, forgive me for interrupting myself. I do it all the time anyway. When I teach neuroanatomy, you know, some clever student always figures out, okay, well that's connected to that and that's connected, but ultimately everything in the brain is connected to everything else. Yeah. There's just no way around that. That's a true statement. Yeah. And so you really just have to decide where you draw the boundaries. Yeah. Between where you draw the line, where what, where are the modules, what are the modules? You could say the brain is just one big macro module. Yeah. And then you also want to include the body. And now fortunately, people are starting to embrace this idea that it's not mind body, it's both because the nervous system extends through both, of course.

1 (2h 4m 41s):
So as the same could be said of family, like we're related, right? Not just by virtue of the fact that we're human beings. If we did our genealogical charts, we would find a, a convergence at some point. Yeah. And of course, you know, this becomes a bit of a game, but then one realizes that where you draw the boundaries and if you draw them at brother, sister, parents, biological parents, et cetera, that's a game too. Yeah. And so it is just a construct. Yeah.

2 (2h 5m 10s):
Yeah. I mean, it is a fun game, you know, where do you draw the line and when to pass and when to collapse. It's, it's also a classic consideration in science when to pass

1 (2h 5m 21s):
The lump versus the splitter. You go,

2 (2h 5m 23s):
It's brilliant. Yeah. It's, but you asked this question like, well why do psychedelics do it? And there we think psychedelics do it because the target receptors, at least, you know, classic psychedelics do it. And that's important to stress. So M D M A doesn't really do it in the same way. Might soften the ego a bit, but yeah, that's debatable. My

1 (2h 5m 47s):
Experience with M D M A is that it's such a strong in pathogen. Yeah. And, and that it can cause empathy for others. Yeah. Certainly you could imagine situations where one in the M D M A journey and afterwards says, you know, oh, these, these my oppressors, you know, or the people that harmed me, they, and here I'm not referring to my experience, but you know, they did the best with what they have, actually have a empathy for them. Forgiveness. Yeah. But also for oneself that there's an an, a empathy for self. I know I said this earlier, that is very hard for most people to access. Perhaps it's not the narcissists out there listening, they'll be like, of course empathy for self.

1 (2h 6m 28s):
But everyone else, I think all the other healthy people or the healthy people other than narcissists and not picking on narcis, I have to imagine they suffer too. In fact, I think that's the root of their narcissism, that empathy for self is not something that comes reflexively for most people. And here I'm not talking about self-love or self-respect, but this notion of being able to see the self as not just deserving of love and care, but actually holding that in place while in confrontation with something challenging in a way that allows more, not less access to adaptive responses to that challenge.

1 (2h 7m 8s):
I think that's the way I, I kind of conceptualize it. Yeah.

2 (2h 7m 11s):
Yeah. But I mean, drugs offer a, a great, they offer great, they are great scientific tools for tackling this question. What is ego dissolution and why do drugs modulate it? And what does that tell you about the brain? You know, because other drugs like cocaine releasing more of a, a different neurotransmitter dopamine more than serotonin, the opposite is the case with M D M A is more of an ego inflater, right? Oh,

1 (2h 7m 40s):
Absolutely. People become hyperlinear hyper linked to their own desires and wishes, and future outcomes become an obsession. It's the stuff of kind of American psycho and the kind of cliches and stereotypes of the, the, the eighties cocaine culture. Yeah.

2 (2h 7m 59s):
Yeah. We did a study once actually looking at dose dependent relationship with ego inflation on one axis and ego dissolution on the other, and saw that it just massively passed or differentiated between cocaine and, and the psychedelics. It's quite a neat study.

1 (2h 8m 15s):
So cocaine makes people's egos super inflated. Yeah. And psilocybin

2 (2h 8m 19s):
Doesn't touch dissolution. And the opposite is the case with, with psychedelics at least, is

1 (2h 8m 24s):
Your imaging to, to explain how how cocaine does that

2 (2h 8m 28s):
That would be a great study. Yeah, great idea. We should do that.

1 (2h 8m 32s):
I have a sabbatical coming up. I've got 12 months of sabbatical coming up. Yeah, that's, I don't wanna, I'm gonna show up in your lab.

2 (2h 8m 39s):
That's a really good one. If it's right to finish the thread on, on why psychedelics and eco dissolution, we do know some things or you know, we have some hypotheses and it's the target receptors are serotonin to a receptors that, that classic psychedelics hit are heavily expressed in what these days I like to call recent brain because evolutionarily it's recent brain, it's cortex that humans have more than any other species. If you look at a mapping of cortical expansion from say, maca or chimp to human, it's the very same map that you'll find the two a receptors in. So that's the target. It's, and, and it's just easy to think that, oh, well that could be the egoic brain, you know, and, and the classic psychedelics come in, they kind of, they scramble up the activity.

2 (2h 9m 31s):
That's the tropic brain action. And in terms of, you know, the start stop, the boundaries, that tropic action sort of spreads out the system. It doesn't shut it off. It sort of spreads it out, you know,

1 (2h 9m 47s):
Dissolution.

2 (2h 9m 48s):
Yeah. And, and you know that you were talking about the headspace as well, so that fits if it's, you know, if it's more capacious, it sort of fits the, the big qualifier with psychedelic therapy that, that people rightly bring up is it doesn't last. You know, that's the paradox of it. The paradox of ego dissolution. So the ego might go away during the trip and you have these profound insights about the molecular continuity and how we're all one and interconnected. And then you calm down and however long later, you know, the ego comes back, but maybe with a vengeance.

2 (2h 10m 30s):
And sadly, you know, things can go awry when people haven't done the work, perhaps haven't done the integration work, and maybe ego defenses come back and, you know, and it's not, it's not a pretty picture.

1 (2h 10m 46s):
How often do you see that in the, the trials that you do? What percentage of the, the out of people coming through, what do you think end up with worse than they, they were before the, the trial?

2 (2h 10m 60s):
It's very rare in the trials that we've done. Yeah. But you see defenses come back. So you, you do see people relapse. That's more, you know, if you, if you're pushing out to like three months plus in something like treatment resistant depression, that's more the rule than the exception. Sadly, people relapse. If their histories are, you know, histories of chronic depression, then while you might give them a, a window of wellness, sadly it doesn't last. That's not to say that it, it doesn't ever last. It does. And, and we have people who are in our first treatment resistant depression trial who are, well, to my knowledge today, back at work, doing fantastically well.

2 (2h 11m 44s):
But sadly, the majority have relapsed to my knowledge

1 (2h 11m 49s):
And need to do more psychedelic journeys. Well,

2 (2h 11m 51s):
They can't because it's illegal. That's been the really difficult situation that we've been up against, is that we do a trial where all of a sudden this schedule one drug becomes a medicine in the trial, or at least an experimental medicine. We give the treatment, it works fantastically well, gives people a remission that they've never really had for however long and, and then a trial lens and they're denied that treatment. And worse still, if they were to have that treatment, they would be committing a crime. It's sort of a sick joke in a way, but that's, that's a situation that we've been in.

1 (2h 12m 27s):
That's a perfect segue for what I want to talk about now, which is, what is the current state of legality in terms or the progression towards legality? I'd also like to touch on the role of, let's just say incoming big pharma. There are a lot of startup companies now trying to capitalize on these discoveries that you and others have made. You know, the landscape out there is very unclear to me. Maybe I'll just call out some silos as I see them, and maybe we can draw some bridges between them if they exist at the ground level, not the grassroots, but at the ground level, I look to laboratories like yours, Matthew Johnson's, Roland Griffiths, some laboratories at Stanford, Nolan Williams Laboratories doing, studying the effects of psychedelics in human beings.

1 (2h 13m 23s):
So not animal models in terms of their clinical application for the treatment of depression. Anorexia, I now know fibromyalgia trauma. Let's lump M D M A in there as well, assuming that it all works in an equivalent way at the level of kind of where the legislature's taking things. Okay? So labs using government, money, philanthropy, et cetera. Then there are the, the sort of the therapists out there that are accessing what we believe are clean sources of M D M A, psilocybin L S D to do this. They are doing it illegally. This is in the US or other western European countries, cuz obviously it's gonna differ by country who are administering these things sort of on the basis of what they're reading in these studies that you all are publishing, but also expanding on and experimenting hippie flips and combination drugs and ketamine and et cetera.

1 (2h 14m 20s):
But let's leave Ketamine out for right now because it's legal. But there's that, then there's the, I don't wanna say it's sort of recreational slash open market, black market. And here I want to raise a flag to the fact that Doc, Dr. Peter Atilla did a terrific podcast on this recently in his own podcast. The drive, the fact that fentanyl lacing with fentanyl is now showing up in M D M A and psychedelics that are purchased on the street. So serious caution to those, getting it from uncertain sources and, and then you've got pharma, and then as an umbrella for all of this, you've got the FDA and law enforcement agencies, which currently say this stuff is illegal.

1 (2h 15m 4s):
Unless it's being used in a clinical trial, selling it or possessing it can get you charged with a crime ranging from, I don't wanna say cuz I don't know, but I'm up to felonies, right? Years in prison. Okay. So can't take it through airports, can't, don't get caught with it. Don't buy it, don't sell it, kind of thing. So where are we going from that picture of these silos? I know things are in clinical trials now, most people, including myself, are not familiar with how the different phases relate to the proximity to legality. Could you just kind of give us the landscape and touch on how long you think it will be before the people that come through your trials could then go get a prescription for psilocybin or potentially buy it without the risk from a reliable source?

1 (2h 15m 53s):
One would hope, but without the risk of getting thrown in jail. I used to live in Oakland, California. My understanding, and please correct me if I'm wrong, folks don't trust this information and get in trouble, my understanding is that psilocybin is decriminalized in Oakland, but that's not the same as being legal. So what is going on out there?

2 (2h 16m 13s):
Wow. Well, so much. Yeah,

1 (2h 16m 15s):
I just asked 55 questions, but, but feel free to answer just a subset of them if you'd like. Yeah,

2 (2h 16m 21s):
Yeah. Well, Oakland's a funny one. I, I live close to Oakland. There are head shops in Oakland, you know, that might be selling cannabis and, and you know, cannabis related paraphernalia that are selling mushrooms as well. Psilocybin mushrooms. That's a fact. Openly.

1 (2h 16m 41s):
Yeah, that's a fact. I can, I can verify that. Okay. I haven't purchased them, but I've gone in and kind of checked it out like, what, what's going on here? Yeah, yeah,

2 (2h 16m 48s):
Yeah. So, you know, the police aren't going to prioritize that activity, the purchasing of, of those mushrooms as a crime now in Oakland because of the decriminalization. So those head shops shouldn't strictly be selling, well, they shouldn't be selling, they won't have a license to be selling licenses don't exist yet for that here. But let's see whether they get shut down, they probably will. I don't know. But there's a, there's a church, you know, in, in Oakland that are sort of say that, that they're selling and it's part of sort of religious rights that they're using that church model as a loophole.

2 (2h 17m 40s):
You know, the way that Native Americans can use pe and they have a more genuine case I think because there is a history there, but they're trying to kind of piggyback on that. But anyway, that's, that's sort of, you know, close to where we are right now. But federally, which is really the major inflection point is the FDA and the licensing of psychedelics as medicines to be legally prescribed across the country, across the US and beyond that is close because the key phase, so there are different phases of clinical trials and the key one to know about is phase three.

2 (2h 18m 23s):
Phase three trials are licensing trials if they're successful. And typically you have to do at least two successful ones, show the results to the regulators who are the fda, the medicine regulators, and say, is this good enough now for you to give me a license so that I can sell and provide this medicine that we've demonstrated as a medicine. So that work has been done with M D M A therapy for post-traumatic stress disorder maps, have led that work and done two phase three trials. I think they've already publicly announced that the second trial had results consistent with the first, we know the results are the first because they're published and they were remarkably good.

2 (2h 19m 6s):
Something like 67% remission rates

1 (2h 19m 9s):
And long term, my understanding is some of those remission rates for trauma are years.

2 (2h 19m 15s):
Yeah.

1 (2h 19m 15s):
Which is different than what you're describing for psilocybin where people might need ongoing dosing. Yeah,

2 (2h 19m 20s):
That's true. Yeah. Yeah.

1 (2h 19m 22s):
But of course, just for trauma in those trials, my understanding is those MDMA trials were not focused on depression.

2 (2h 19m 28s):
Yes, yes. Focused on, on the trauma. So that's something, because that data is being filed now to my knowledge, like as we speak, and they're anticipating a decision maybe this year with rollout happening as early as next year. I mean, that's sort of best case I think. Could

1 (2h 19m 50s):
I ask you, when you say rollout, who's, and it's the appropriate term for M D M A is a so-called rolling, about 20% of my audience, maybe 50 will, will understand that not funny joke that I made who's going to roll it out? Is this, where would one get the md, the, the clean source of N dma, meaning not laced with fentanyl, not laced with methamphetamine, not undergone any chemical conversion to some other drug, which can happen with extended shelf life, et cetera. Are people going to go to their psychiatrist to get M D M A and who's going to be providing it? Is it gonna be some big major pharma?

1 (2h 20m 33s):
This seems like a serious set of issues.

2 (2h 20m 36s):
It is, and I don't have all the answers. I, I do know that maps would be providing because they've done the work and they have set themselves up in a sense to potentially become the provider, whether as a farmer company, which is the big question they're wrestling with at the moment. It's very expensive to become a farmer company.

1 (2h 21m 1s):
And yet they probably deserve to make the choice because they've put in so many years of hard work when all of this stuff was considered like raver culture party drug. They were the ones that spotted the therapeutic potential. I mean, we knew there was therapeutic potential based on work going back many decades, but points to them. And I think that, I think in my opinion, they should have the agency to make those decisions. Yeah.

2 (2h 21m 25s):
And it's a remark, such a remarkable thing that's been achieved. And I, I think they've done it all on Phil philanthropic donations. I think so, yeah. So there there is this, yeah, big question mark and the F D A are also asking questions about, to, to your question, you know, who, who can provide this? Because in the phase three work, and up until this point there's been a maps training, a maps therapist training, and you have to do this formal training in order to, to be a practitioner within the trials. But now there's a question from the F D A, whether that MAPS training can be the training that a clinician has to have to now be a provider.

2 (2h 22m 15s):
And when I say rollout, it's like offering this as a service essentially. And so where would the referral come from? That's a good question. That I'm not a hundred percent on the answer, whether it would have to come from a psychiatrist or whether someone's sort of general physician could do that referral. But they will be going to a provider who is licensed and certified and will have done some training and there will be a consensus on, you know, what constitutes good enough training to provide. There will also be some stipulations on the basic underlying professionalism of the clinician who provides.

2 (2h 22m 59s):
So I imagine there'll have to be a mental health professional. I don't think they would have to necessarily be a psychiatrist. They could be a, I think a clinical psychologist for all the dosings. I think without question, there would have to be a physician present or at least within ready access in case of an emergency. Yeah,

1 (2h 23m 19s):
Especially with M D M A because of the propensity for cardiac issues. Yeah, because of the amphetamine properties. Yes. And where is psilocybin in terms of the phase trials? Is it in phase two, phase three?

2 (2h 23m 32s):
It's in phase three. There's psilocybin therapy work being done for treatment resistant depression by a company called Compass. Those trials, which are always multi-site. So there's always a bunch of teams or labs in a sense geographically spread out that are each contributing to data that then gets massed together and is then submitted as part of the phase three trial results. So that's happening with Compass right now. It's sulu IBIN therapy for treatment resistant depression. Those trials have just started. And I think the earliest estimate that I heard in a, in a journalistic article was because I don't think Compass would say, or they wouldn't say publicly something like 2026.

1 (2h 24m 21s):
26. Wow. So M D M A is, is ahead of PIL seven?

2 (2h 24m 26s):
Oh yes, yes. Quite a few years ahead. And it's more of a, not a certainty, but it's very, very strong position with M D M A, whereas the work's only just begun with, with soy in terms of the phase three trials. But then you have this other situation of like however many psychedelic research centers there are now across the globe. It was nice to, you know, we had the first one in London in 2019. First one in 2019 is 2023 now. And I dunno how many there are, but so much has happened in such a small space of time. Yes.

2 (2h 25m 5s):
But you know, all these different indications I've been able to tell you about anorexia and fibromyalgia syndrome, trying to do a, a trial with a colleague of mine at U C S F in methamphetamine use disorder. He's got a trial going on in Parkinson's disease and chronic lower back pain and bipolar disorder. I mean, there's so much going on O C d almost the full gamut of psychiatric disorders, not schizophrenia to my knowledge are being looked at. So there's so much ground, ground, you know, groundswell of activity.

2 (2h 25m 45s):
And I think these small investigator led studies, typically they're small because trials are expensive, are gonna be reporting positive results. I know what we are seeing and it'll be, you know, for, let's see now at least four trials, all with really positive results and very difficult to treat disorders. And that's just us. And I know there's so much elsewhere, addiction disorders as well, you know, Mike Johnson's work, obviously Michael Bogan shoots. So all this compelling groundswell, it's really something. And yet, you know, the system to really make a big breakthrough in terms of licensing is of course slow.

2 (2h 26m 26s):
And it's, that can frustrate people, but it, it has to, it it has to be done properly.

1 (2h 26m 34s):
Yeah. Else we, we revert back to what happened in the seventies where there was a lot of interest in psychedelics. It's kind of interesting to me. There was a, a close juxtaposition of meditation and kind of behavioral approaches to self-directed state change. And psychedelics and meditation kind of made it through the hatch. I mean, there were some years where it was considered kind of counterculture woo, magic carpet weirdo stuff by western science. But now, I mean, there are tens of th probably tens of thousands is not an overstatement of quality studies exploring how meditation can provide advantages for the mind and even for mental health.

1 (2h 27m 18s):
And psychedelics are now catching up. But they used to be close cousins in the, in the cultural framework. But the problem was, I think psychedelics were viewed as making people crazy. And university professors lost their jobs for having discussions like the one that you and I are having right now. And some people went to jail, but mostly, mostly people either left academic institutions or lost their jobs. Whereas now these are some of the, these studies of the sort that you are doing and that are taking place at Stanford and Hopkins and elsewhere are some of the greatest magnetic pull for philanthropy for universities.

1 (2h 27m 58s):
Donors are very interested in supporting these sorts of studies because they and their family members and people they know suffer from psychiatric illness for which the current big pharma approaches simply have not worked. So it's sort of interesting to me that what once was seen as kind of poison is now being viewed as a potential therapeutic. It's not just interesting. I think it's, it hopefully it speaks to the evolution of, of the human species. People seem to be coming more open-minded about becoming more open-minded.

2 (2h 28m 38s):
Right. That's a good one. Yeah. And yet, yeah, it's, there's so much that's happening so fast and there's, you know, there are elements of, it's, it's complexifying the space, there's, there is critique, there's been some bad practice in psychedelic therapy, boundary crossing issues that have caused some scandals.

1 (2h 29m 4s):
That's too bad, isn't

2 (2h 29m 5s):
It?

1 (2h 29m 6s):
Yeah, well, you know, I think to the gene therapy, right? It just takes one bad incident. You know, gene therapy was on a fast track three decades ago, and then one, sadly child died in a gene therapy trial and it's like, shut down gene therapy practically for half a decade. And then it slowly started ratcheting up again, pre gene therapy, broadly define it. Now we're in the age of, you know, potential directed gene therapy using CRISPR and things of that sort, which makes people, some people cringe and other people very excited, you know, if you have Huntington's in your family, CRISPR is like the most exciting technology ever because you could potentially eliminate it from your family line going forward. Of course.

2 (2h 29m 46s):
So I I just really hope that we can be balanced as this all plays out because it, it could go similar way given the stigma, given the history that people be very twitchy with, with some isolated incidents. And, you know, I over-generalize them perhaps in a sense, shining a light on them I think is important. That, that has happened recently is important because it really drills home how important it is that this work could be done, right? And, and what the necessary safeguards and, and standards should be.

2 (2h 30m 28s):
Yeah, it won't be, it won't be an easy road forwards, but, but let's hope, you know, we've gotta hope that it succeeds because current treatments, you know, people talk about the mental health crisis and to your point earlier about anorexia rates, it's not always actually the case When you look at the epidemiology, when you look at the data that you see a big inflection in, you know, diagnoses or cases of psychiatric illness, I would say it's more that the treatments haven't moved, they haven't really progressed, they haven't got any better since the 1950s, more or less. And, and new drugs have been more of the same.

2 (2h 31m 12s):
So there haven't been any paradigm shifts. And that's why I get a little impassioned when I talk about psychedelic therapy and, and that point that this is something different. It's not, you know, a drug every day it, that system. It's not cutting it, you know, do we really wanna keep on with that system? Sure. You know, not everyone will want to trip and that will terrify some people so much that they'll just want to be on their Lexapro or, or a non psychedelic psychedelic or whatever. And of course you should be allowed to have those options, of course. And the more options, the better. But I think there is, there's great value in that really understanding what psychedelic therapy is.

2 (2h 31m 59s):
And, and, and I think when you do, you realize that it is a major paradigm challenge on many levels and, and the fact that it's different might be, it's, it's greatest appeal at the moment, I think.

1 (2h 32m 14s):
Well, I am certainly grateful for your passion, for the potential for psychedelics to be added to the array of potential treatments. And I really also appreciate how much you put it in there alongside the other treatments, maybe even combination with other treatments as opposed to saying, this is the thing that's gonna cure everything. And yet the passion that you have for this potential paradigm shift, the one that really appears to be happening at the level of clinical data now is so important. So I want to extend a, a voice of gratitude for that and for the work that you're doing. I mean, I've been outside of this field, but as a neuroscientist, I've been paying careful attention to it really for the last five, seven years or so.

1 (2h 33m 4s):
And it's abundantly clear that it is a small group of individuals who are really thinking in terms of how the system works now and what needs to be done in order to change the system for the better like yourself that are really the driving force behind this new movement or paradigm shift that without question is going to lead to improvements in mental health and physical health outcomes. So I just wanna say thank you for that. Also, thank you so much for joining us today to share this immense knowledge set about the history of psychedelics, what they are, what they aren't their clinical applications as seen in your laboratory and other laboratories.

1 (2h 33m 46s):
I'm sure people already notice this, but you're incredibly generous in terms of attribution and, and also in your caution about explaining how some of the results in particular on anorexia fibromyalgia are perhaps preliminary, but very exciting. They're not published yet anyway. We wouldn't call them preliminary. And also for touching on mechanism that is not just about people feel better, but pointed to some potential underlying mechanisms in terms of connectivity changes and on and on. So thank you so much for your time today. Thank you for the work that you're doing, and thank you for the work that is sure to continue. We will provide links to studies in your laboratory, links to your laboratory so people can learn more and support in the ways that they deem appropriate for them.

1 (2h 34m 31s):
But just thank you, thank you, thank you. Such important work you're doing, Robin. Thank

2 (2h 34m 37s):
You, Andrew, it's been a pleasure.

1 (2h 34m 38s):
Thank you for joining me today for my discussion with Dr. Robin Carhartt Harris. I hope you found it to be as informative about the science and clinical uses of psychedelics as I did. If you'd like to learn more about Dr. Carhartt Harris's research or support that research or inquire into being a research subject in one of his laboratory studies, please see the links in the show note captions. In addition, please see the links to his Twitter account and other social media accounts also in the show note captions. Also in the show note captions, you'll find a link to Dr. Carhart Harris's Twitter account where he regularly posts about new advances in the field of psychedelic science. If you're learning from and or enjoying this podcast, please subscribe to our YouTube channel. That's a terrific zero cost way to support us.

1 (2h 35m 20s):
In addition, please subscribe to the podcast on both Spotify and Apple and on both Spotify and Apple. You can also leave us up to a five star review. Please also check out the sponsors mentioned at the beginning and throughout today's episode. That's the best way to support this podcast. If you have questions for me or comments about the podcast or suggestions about guests you'd like me to include on the huberman Lab podcast, please put those in the comment section on YouTube. I do read all the comments,

Momentous (2h 35m 44s):
not so much on today's episode, but on many previous episodes of the huberman Lab podcast, we discussed supplements. While supplements aren't necessary for everybody, many people derive tremendous benefit from them. For things like improving sleep hormone support, as well as focus, the Huberman Lab podcast is proud to have partnered with momentous supplements. If you'd like to see the supplements discussed on the huberman Lab podcast, you can go to live Momentus spelled o u s, so it's live momentous.com/huberman.

1 (2h 36m 10s):
If you're not already following me on social media, I am huberman Lab on all platforms. So that's Facebook, LinkedIn, Twitter, and Instagram. And on all those platforms I post about science and science related tools, some of which overlaps with the content to the huberman Lab podcast, but much of which is distinct from the content on the Huberman Lab podcast. So again, it's Huberman Lab on all social media platforms. If you haven't already subscribed to our Neural Network newsletter, the Neural Network Newsletter is a monthly newsletter in which we distill down the essential points of particular podcasts and we list out toolkits such as toolkits for sleep, toolkits for neuroplasticity, toolkits, for optimizing dopamine, and on and on, all of which is available at zero cost. You simply go to huberman lab.com, go to the menu, scroll down a newsletter and supply your email, and we do not share your email with anybody.

1 (2h 36m 56s):
Thank you once again for joining me for today's discussion with Dr. Robin Carhartt Harris. And last but certainly not least, thank you for your interest in signs.