2 (0s):
Welcome to the Huberman Lab Podcast, where we discuss science and science based tools for everyday life. I'm Andrew Huberman and I'm a professor of neurobiology and ophthalmology at Stanford School of Medicine. My Guest today is Dr. Lisa Feldman Barrett, Dr. Lisa Feldman Barrett is a Distinguished professor of psychology at Northeastern University. She also holds appointments at Harvard Medical School and Massachusetts General Hospital, where she's the Chief Scientific Officer of the Center of Law, brain, and Behavior. Dr. Barrett is considered one of the top world experts in the study of emotions, and her laboratory has studied emotions using approaches both from the fields of psychology and neuroscience.

2 (44s):
Indeed, today you will learn about the Neural circuits and the psychological underpinnings of what we call emotions. You will learn what emotions truly are and how to interpret different emotional states. You'll also learn how emotions relate to things like motivation, consciousness, and affect. Affect is a term that refers to a more general state of brain and body that increases or decreases the probability that you'll experience certain emotions during today's discussion. Dr. Feldman Barrett also teaches us how to regulate our emotions effectively, as well as how to better interpret the emotional states of others. You'll also learn about the powerful relationship that exists between our emotional states and the movement of our body.

2 (1m 25s):
In fact, much of today's discussion is both practical and will be highly informative in terms of the mechanisms underlying emotions, and it is likely to also be surprising to you in a number of ways. It certainly was surprising to me. I've been a close follower of Dr. Feldman Barrett's work over many years now, and have always found it to be tremendously informative. And when I say her work, I mean both her academic published papers as well as her public lectures that she's given and her two fabulous books on emotions in the brain. The first one entitled How Emotions Are Made, and the second book, which includes information about emotions but extends beyond that, entitled Seven and a Half Lessons About the Brain. As you'll see from today's discussion, Dr.

2 (2m 5s):
Feldman Barrett is not only extremely informed about the neuroscience and psychology of emotions, she's also fabulously good at teaching us that information in clear terms and in actionable ways. You'll also notice several times she pushes back on my questions in some cases, even telling me that my questions are ill posed. and I have to tell you that I was absolutely delighted that she did that because you'll see that every time she did that, it was with a clear purpose of putting more specificity on the question and thereby more specificity and clarity on the answer, which of course she delivers. By the end of today's discussion, you'll have both a broad and a deep understanding of what emotions are and their origins in our brain and body.

2 (2m 46s):
You'll also have many practical tools with which to better understand and navigate emotional states. And moreover, you'll have many practical tools in order to increase your levels of motivation and better understand your various states of consciousness. Before we begin, I'd like to emphasize that this podcast is separate from my teaching and research roles at Stanford. It is however, part of my desire and effort to bring zero cost to consumer information about science and science related tools to the general public. In keeping with that theme, I'd like to thank the sponsors of today's podcast.

Eight Sleep (3m 18s):
Our first Sponsor is Eight Sleep Eight. Sleep makes Smart mattress covers with cooling, heating and sleep tracking capacity. I've spoken many times before on this podcast about the fact that sleep is the foundation of mental health, physical health and performance. One of the key things to getting a great night's sleep is to control the temperature of your sleeping environment. And that's because in order to fall and stay deeply asleep, your body temperature has to drop by one to three degrees, and in order to wake up in the morning feeling refreshed, your body temperature actually has to increase by one to three degrees. With Eight Sleep, it's very easy to control the temperature of your sleeping environment. It's a mattress cover that allows you to control the temperature of your sleeping environment at the beginning, middle, and end of your night, and in doing so, allow you to fall and stay deeply asleep throughout the night and wake up feeling extremely refreshed. I started sleeping on an Eight Sleep mattress cover well over two years ago, and it has greatly improved the quality of my sleep. If you'd like to try Eight Sleep, you can go to Eight Sleep dot com slash Huberman to save up to $150 off their pod three cover Eight Sleep currently ships in the U S A Canada UK select countries in the EU and Australia. Again, that's Eight Sleep dot com slash Huberman.

Levels (4m 25s):
Today's episode is also brought to us by Levels. Levels is a program that lets you see how different foods and behaviors affect your health by giving you realtime feedback using a continuous glucose monitor. One of the most important factors impacting your immediate and long-term health is the way that your body manages its blood glucose or sometimes referred to as blood sugar levels to maintain energy and focus throughout the day. You want to keep your blood glucose steady without big spikes or dips. Using levels, you can monitor how different types of foods and different food combinations as well as food timing and things like exercise combined to impact your blood glucose levels. I started using levels a little over a year ago and it gave me a lot of insight into how specific foods were spiking my blood sugar and then leaving me feeling tired for several hours afterwards, as well as how the spacing of exercise and my meals was impacting my overall energy. And in doing so, it really allowed me to optimize how I eat, what I eat when I exercise and so on, such that my blood glucose levels and energy levels are stable throughout the day. If you're interested in learning more about levels and trying a continuous glucose monitor yourself, go to Levels Link slash Huberman right now Levels is offering an additional two free months of membership. Again, that's levels link l i NK slash Huberman to get two free months of membership. And now for my discussion with Dr. Lisa, Feldman Barrett, Dr. Lisa Feldman Barrett, welcome. Oh,

2 (5m 50s):
It's my pleasure to be here. Yeah, I've wanted to talk to you for a very long time. I'd like to talk about emotions. I think everyone has a sense somehow of what an Emotion is feeling happy, feeling sad, feeling excited, feeling curious perhaps is even Emotion, I don't know. You'll tell us what are the core Components, what are the sort of macronutrients of a, of an Emotion? Because I know there's a debate about whether or not we should be talking about emotions versus states, but what is an Emotion?

2 (6m 32s):
We all are familiar with what one feels like to us, but from a scientific perspective, how do you define an Emotion? Well, s this is a scientists debate about this. Nobody in the last 150 years has ever been able to agree on what an Emotion is and I think, from my perspective, the interesting but tricky bit is that anytime you wanna talk about what the basic building blocks are of Emotion, none of those basic building blocks are specific to Emotion. So for example, there are a group of scientists who will tell you, well, an Emotion is a coordinated response where you have a change in some physical state, a change in the brain, a change in the physical state, which leads you to make a particular facial expression.

2 (7m 23s):
So you've got physiological changes in the body, changes in the brain, changes in the face, or in motor movements. Okay? But that describes basically every moment of your life. Your face is always moving in some way. If it wasn't you, you would look like an avatar basically. So we're, we're constantly engaged in, in movements, and those movements have to be coordinated with the physiological changes in the body because whether we're, whether we're in a state that we would conventionally call Emotion or not, because the physiology is supporting those, it's supporting the, you know, the glucose and the oxygen and all the things that you need to make movements of your body.

2 (8m 4s):
And, of course, all these movements are being coordinated by your brain. So of course there's a coordinated set of features that doesn't really describe how emotions are distinct from any other experience that you have. But the, the claim was for a really long time that there would be diagnostic patterns. Okay? So when something triggered fear, you would have an increase in heart rate and you would have a propensity to run away or to freeze, or not just to fall asleep, although that is something animals do when they are faced with a predator.

2 (8m 44s):
But that's not part of the Western stereotype for fear. So that wasn't what scientists were looking for. And, and also that you would make a, a particular facial expression, which was presumed to be the Universal expression of fear, where you widen your eyes and you gasp, like that facial set of facial movements. In other cultures, like in Melanesian culture, for example, is a, is a symbol of threat where you are threatening someone, you are threatening them with aggression, basically is a war face. But in western cultures, that's the, the face that western scientists believed was the, you know, the, the distinctive part of that distinctive pattern for fear.

2 (9m 29s):
And so the way that scientists defined Emotion for a long time was these kind of states where you'd see this diagnostic ensemble of signals. And that would mean that anytime someone showed one of those signals, they may move their face in a particular way, or their heart increased at a particular time. You'd be able to diagnose them as being in a state of fear as opposed to a state of anger or sadness or whatever. The empirical evidence just doesn't bear that out. And so it was kind of a mystery. The mystery is how is it that you feel angry or sad or happy or you know, full of gratitude or awe, how is it that you experience these moments?

2 (10m 24s):
But scientists can't find a single set of physical markers that correspond with each state distinctively right that in, in a way that you could tell them apart. That's a, that was a really big puzzle for a really long time. I have to ask you about this perhaps myth, perhaps truth about Facial Expressions and emotions, because as you were explaining the Core Components of Emotions, I had to think back to the classic textbook images of the different faces associated with fear, with delight, with confusion, on and on.

2 (11m 8s):
We, we will get to that and your opinions on that scientifically in informed opinions, of course. But there is a bit of a myth that the Emotion system and the facial expression system run in both directions. For instance, people will say, if you smile, it's harder to feel sad or anxious. I can't say that's been my experience, but I very well could be wrong. So we know that when people's emotional states change their Facial, Expressions often will change, right? If you see someone crying on the street versus somebody smiling really big, you, we can make some Assumptions about what might be going on at internally for them.

2 (11m 55s):
But put simply, is it true that changing one's facial expression can direct shifts in the brain and body perhaps that change our emotional states? If you'll permit me, what I would say is that your question is ill posed. So first of all, it presumes that there's an Emotion system and that there's a facial expression system. Now, clearly there's a system for moving facial muscles, okay? But a movement is not the same as an expression. A movement is a movement. An expression is an Interpretation of the meaning of a movement.

2 (12m 38s):
Not all movements of the face are expressions. And this is, you know, a problem. It's a problem in science, in it's often the case, I think, in my experience in the science of Emotion, but elsewhere too, that scientists in their efforts to make their work meaningful to people, will try to interpret their findings in, in ways that the average person would find interesting, or the way that a physician would find interesting or a teacher or what have you, to be able to use this information.

2 (13m 18s):
But then they forget that they're actually making an Interpretation and they start to refer to their observations with the Labels of Interpretation. So facial movements are facial movements. People move their faces and that those movements have meaning, but they're not always to express an internal state. In fact, one might think that they're very rarely to express an internal state. So I don't know that there's a facial expression system either. So that's, there's certainly, like I said, there, there's circuitry for moving a face, but, but what those movements mean is highly variable.

2 (13m 60s):
And so that would be my second point that where I would say when you see someone crying on the street, you are not looking only at their face. You might be aware that you're focusing on their face. That might be the part of the entire sensory ensemble that you are focusing your attention on. But your brain is taking in an entire ensemble of signals, as you know, it's taking in not just the, you know, movements of the face, the tears or whatever. It's taking in all of the, the entire sensory array, the sounds, the smells, what's going on inside your own body. Your brain is being bombarded with signals from, from all of those sources.

2 (14m 43s):
And when it's making a meaning out of any signal, it's doing it in an ensemble of signals. So research shows that babies cries aren't acoustically specific to when they're tired or hungry, or right. The, you can, I can show you a video without context and show you someone crying, and you might make a judgment. You might think make the stereotypic judgment in the west, oh, that person is sad. And then we pan out and really, you know, it's a little girl whose dad just came home from Iraq or something, right? So brains are always interpreting faces in context, they're making guesses. This is something that I've talked about quite a bit, that we don't read movements in people, we don't read emotions in Facial, Expressions, we make inferences about the emotional meaning of facial movements, and we do it in an ensemble of other signals, the, the context as you, if you will.

2 (15m 41s):
And that's really what's what's happening. So do I think that, that there's feedback from the face to the brain? Sure. I mean, there's feedback from every muscle, but there's this constant conversation between the brain and the body. The brain is sending motor commands. The body is, is, you know, has sensory surfaces, which are sending signals back to the brain. So if the face is influencing the brain, it's doing so in a way that's not special. It, it's doing it in a way that that works for all other parts of your body too.

2 (16m 25s):
And I, guess what I would say? This is kind of a long-winded answer, but over time your brain has learned that certain patterns of signal over time recur. And so if you're smiling, if your brain is, you know, telling your, your facial muscles to move in a particular way that looks like smiling, it's happening in a larger ensemble of signals. And then the brain is predicting what's gonna happen next because it's learned over time what happens next. So probabilistically, so if you think about that as cause then sure, but it's not as, it's not this simplistic kind of idea that an Emotion is triggered, it causes facial muscles to move in a particular way.

2 (17m 22s):
And therefore if you just pose your face in, in those, in that particular arrangement, it, that will somehow feed back to the Emotion system and change that system. 'cause there are no, there is no Emotion system in your brain, and the the causation just isn't that, it's not that simplistically mechanistic That makes sense to me. I, I frankly never bought the idea that just smiling would make me feel happy, especially if my internal state was not one of happiness, like fighting the internal state. Also, in the early two thousands, I think it was, there was a lot of discussion about how positioning the body in certain ways, you know, taking up more space would allow people to feel more powerful.

2 (18m 10s):
And they, some of these studies and argued that there were even hormonal shifts associated with taking up more space that were associated with feelings of empowerment. And then when shrinking of oneself was in associated with elevated cortisol states. And as I say all this, I'm, I, I want to be clear that I do not take a simplistic view of the Nervous System or of course, or endocrine system. Of course. and I, I didn't, I don't think you, that you were implying that either. Just wanna make sure that anyone listening or watching isn't thinking that, for instance, that cortisol is bad, cortisol is wonderful and essential, you just need to regulated properly. Or that the idea that the body and emotional states are are inextricably linked makes a ton of sense to me.

2 (18m 53s):
But the idea that you could just, you know, grab onto one of the nodes in the emo, now I have to be careful not say Emotion system like position of the body, like being hunched over makes you depressed. No, that never made sense to me. Taking up more space makes you feel more powerful. That doesn't it, it can't be that way. And yet we were told for about a decade through, especially through popular press, that this stuff was true. And so what I love about your work is that it includes a neuro anatomical, a psychological, a network perspective that, that there isn't one seat of emotions and and so on.

2 (19m 34s):
So if we could go a little bit further into the facial expression piece for a moment. Sure. I was taught in my psychology and neuroscience textbooks, 'cause it was right there in front of me that there were some core Categories of facial expression that were Universal across cultures that conveyed something about the internal state of the person that the downward, you know, lips in the corner and, and some, and maybe even a furrowing of the brow was associated with negative valent states like sadness, perhaps even depression. That the opposite of upward turn corners of the mouth and widening of the eyes was delight and excitement. Some of that feels pretty true to my experience, but how do you and other serious scientists of emotions view that somewhat classic literature now?

2 (20m 24s):
Yeah, so I'll just say that my, my journey here, my scientific journey was not one of attempting to overturn a C'S worth of, are we allowed to swear bullshit, basically. I mean, it's just, it's like, it's, it's stereotype. It's basically western stereotypes enshrined as scientific fact. And that sounds like a pretty harsh thing to say, but I think I pretty much stand by that at this point. But for me, when I was a graduate student, when I was an undergraduate in, in psychology and in physiology and in anthropology, you know, I also had read that Darwin said that there were these distinctive Facial Expressions that were coordinated with specific emotional states, the specific states of the Nervous System, this was Darwin's view.

2 (21m 25s):
and I assumed it was correct until I started to try to use that information in the lab and everything fell apart. You know, so when you show someone in a laboratory like a student or somebody from the community, a face, a disembodied face where their, the person's eyes are widened in the face and they're gasping like a stereotypic fear expression, most of the time they don't know what it is. And so I would try to use these faces and as stimulant experiments, and they weren't, they weren't working the way that they were supposed to work.

2 (22m 10s):
And there were really going all the way back to the beginning of psychology. There were always debates about whether or not this was actually accurate. And there's a really interesting story about how Darwin came to this idea, which I can tell you about, but it, it's not because he cared about Emotion and he was basically taking his own very western views about Emotion to make some claims about evolution, actually. So I have more to say about that and about why it's a problem to take anything that anybody said, even Darwin from, you know, hun 150 or so years ago, or whatever it is, and treat it like it's a modern text.

2 (22m 58s):
You know, he was writing at a particular time for a particular purpose. And that doesn't necessarily mean that whatever he wrote is true. But I'll just tell you what the evidence says. That there has been a, in psychology, a debate, really vicious debate actually for probably 50 years about the nature of Facial Expressions and whether they're Universal and whether there's this one-to-one correspondence between a particular face and like a facial configuration and a particular emotional state, smiling and happiness scowling in anger wrinkling your nose and disgust.

2 (23m 38s):
And so in 2016, I think the Association for Psychological Science tasked me and some other senior scientists with a attempting to write a white paper, a consensus paper on what the literature actually shows. So what does the research actually show? If you read all the research, you know, can you find a pattern there? Does it actually reveal anything about whether or not Facial Expressions are Universal, particularly for Emotion And the way they do this, they have a journal for this purpose, for taking a widely held belief that is highly debated and bringing together a panel of experts who disagree with each other at the outset.

2 (24m 24s):
And they have to work together to see if they can come to consensus over the data. And this is something that, you know, people have tried in the past and I mean they're really vicious. People have been vicious with each other over this question. So when we brought together a, a group of people, so several people refused to serve senior scientists refused to serve on this panel, but Out of fear of losing their funding or something. Why, You know, that's a whole other conversation about whys certain scientists would not wanna engage with, with people who disagree with them.

2 (25m 7s):
That's an interesting conversation to have. But I don't think it's as simple actually as just they, their careerist or they, they care about, you know, their money or, or funding or whatever. That would be an easy answer. But I don't actually think that's what's going on. But that's another sort of, but anyway, so there were five of us who got together, all senior scientists, all from different fields. Some of us hadn't met each other before. We all knew of each other, of course. And we met over Zoom for two and a half years. This is pre C O V I D 'cause people were all over the world, right? And we AG we read over a thousand papers. So, so I was the only one in this group of the five of us who my starting hypothesis was that facial movements are meaningful, but they're not, there's no one-to-one correspondence between a particular facial configuration like a scowl and anger.

2 (26m 7s):
Not, not just that it would vary across cultures, but that it varies for you across situations. I mean, do you scowl every time you're angry? I don't scowl every time I'm angry, in fact. and I also scowl at times when I'm not angry. So, and there are scientific reasons to think that, that the, that a the collection of Facial Expressions that people make when they're angry or when they're sad or whatever would be highly variable. So that was my starting position. And then the, there were varying four guys, so there was, I just refer them as the guys, 'cause it was me and four guys. And the guys, they all, to some extent thought that Facial Expressions were Universal, but they had differing reasons and all for, for, for hypothesizing that.

2 (26m 54s):
And they also had different commitments, degrees of commitment to that position. But we right off the bat sort of agreed that we, it didn't matter who was right, that was just not relevant. The only thing that mattered was that we could come to the consensus over the data. And if we couldn't, we had to really pinpoint why. Like, so what would be the critical experiments that would have to be done in order for us to come to consensus over the data? And we also agreed that we had all kinds of contingency set up. So, you know, you've got five senior people who are all running big labs and they're investing, you know, upwards of three years working on a paper.

2 (27m 40s):
So if we can't come to consensus, what are we gonna do? Are we gonna write one paper and sort of write about the process or are we gonna write separate papers or, you know, but we, we had all these contingencies laid out. But the key here, I think is that we agreed that we were not gonna be adversarial about it. 'cause it didn't matter who was right. And in fact, if somebody had to admit they were wrong and someone was gonna have to admit they were wrong, I mean, it turns out all of us were wrong about something, but it, we were gonna be like supportive of each other and, and really encourage each other because, you know, being wrong is, no one likes to be wrong, but for scientists to admit they're wrong is hard.

2 (28m 21s):
And it's something that we should encourage each other to do. I think more and, and more publicly and I think the people who do that are really brave. And so that was my position, and they all agreed. And the long story short here is that two and a half years, a thousand papers later, we all very reasonably came to consensus that there was no evidence for Facial Expressions of Emotion being Universal. And that instead, what is, what there's clear evidence of is that Facial Expressions, the way that people move their faces in, in, in moments of expression is highly variable.

2 (29m 3s):
Meaning sometimes in anger, use scowl meta-analysis. So statistical Summaries of many, many, many studies, even in the West show that people scowl about 35% of the time when they're angry, which is more than chance. So it gets you a good publication in, you know, the proceedings of the national academy. But that means 65% of the time people are moving their faces in other meaningful ways. That's not scowling. So if you actually used a scowl or even, you know, a scowl in blood pressure or you know, just maybe not one signal, but so a couple signals, but you would be wrong more than half the time, you would miss more than half the cases.

2 (29m 49s):
And even more importantly, I think that that's the reliability question. So there's low reliability for the correspondence between a scowl in anger. It's above chance. So scowling is one expression of anger, but it's certainly not the dominant one. And there is no dominant one. It's just highly variable depending on the situation that you're in. So sometimes when I'm angry, I sit quietly and plot that demise of my enemy. You know, sometimes I smile in anger, sometimes I cry in anger. It really depends on the situation. But more importantly, half of the scowls that people make are not related to anger.

2 (30m 33s):
That means that the specificity is, again, higher than chance, but not that much higher than chance. So if you see someone scowling, the chances are that they might not be angry, they might be concentrating really hard or they might have gas. I mean, there are a lot of reasons why people make a scowl. And with, we found this for every Emotion category that had ever been studied. and I want you to notice what I just did there. I'm not, I'm no longer referring to an Emotion as if it's an entity or a thing. So anger isn't one thing, it's a category of things, a grouping of things.

2 (31m 15s):
And if I'm not mistaken, it includes verbs, right? That like anger as a set of verb actions in the, in the brain and body. Yes. It, it's a process. It's, it's, it's not an event. It's A Exactly, it's not a noun, it's a verb. And it's a and it's a process. But the point is that it's, it's a highly variable grouping of instances. If you're, if you are talking about all instances of anger, all instances of anger that you have ever experienced or witnessed is a highly variable grouping of instances that vary. That they, that doesn't mean they're random, but what the body does in anger depends on what the physical movements will be in anger.

2 (31m 57s):
And that depends on the situation that you're in and what your goal is. And, and there are ways to talk about that in neuroscience terms, which are a little more precise. But the important thing to understand here, I think, is that we're only talking about western cultures. Now, the minute that you go outside of the west to at, or even to the east, I mean, so, you know, there are other cultures, you know, that have been studied like China and cultures in China and Japan, in Korea, they all, they all have access to knowledge about western cultural practices and norms. So what happens when you go to, you know, to remote cultures which have much less access.

2 (32m 43s):
So they, it's not like they have no access because we, we live in a globalized world. So even hunter gatherers in Tanzania, the za have access to western practices and norms, but much less, much less. And we did do that. And, and all betts are off there. I mean, most of the time they don't even, they don't even understand or experience facial movements as having anything to do with Emotion. So if they saw an emoji of a smiley face, would they just assume it was a couple? They might think it's a face there, because as we both know, there's some fairly hardwired brain circuitry for the the two eyes that, and a, and a line beneath it and something in the middle that's pseudo noses, that organization of, of just spatial features.

2 (33m 29s):
Yeah. Cues up face for both. Well, for most primates, including us. Well, It's really interesting that you say that because yes, of course that's true, but it's not there at birth. What's there at birth is a preference for that configuration, right? So it's, it's like there's some, and we could talk about why that's there, it's actually very controversial. But, but what babies, what newborns orient to, they orient to that, or they orient to that configuration, but it doesn't have to be a face. And then very quickly they start learning faces because they're exposed to fa they're, I mean, really the first three months of life is almost like a massive continuous tutorial on what faces are because they're, you know, being fed and, and Everyone's in your face literally baby last night, and you see the baby of some friends of and have a unbelievably cute baby, the big cheeks.

2 (34m 17s):
And you want, and there's this desire to see the baby smile, right? Of course. So you do the things that, yeah. And if the baby shows some sort of facial expression that makes it seem like it's a little bit like resistant, what you're doing, you, you stop doing it, you change up your strategy. Yeah. And then when baby cracks a smile, like, now I am going to assume that the baby may or may not have been happy inside that little baby head, but when they do, there's a reciprocity, then we smile. Exactly. Exactly. And so it's a, there's a template that, that's very robust. Right? But I want you to notice though, that, so first of all, I'm not saying that, that recognizing faces a face as a face is not hardwired. It is, but it's hardwired by, not by genes alone.

2 (34m 59s):
Right? And in fact, there's a really wonderful book called Not by Genes alone, basically there's cultural inheritance. We have the kind of nature that requires nurture. We have the kind of genes that require early learning. We have, we need wiring instructions from the world to get the rest of the information that we need to be competent, culturally competent in our, in our, in our lives. And that starts at birth, it probably starts before birth even, but in the third trimester, there's some evidence of learning, fetal learning even in the third trimester. So the point is not that people aren't hardwired for viewing faces or recognizing faces, it's just where does that hard wiring come from?

2 (35m 42s):
It's not by genes alone. Genes aren't the blueprint. The brain is expecting certain inputs from the world, and it needs that because infant brains are wiring themselves to their world. And part of that world is people making faces at them than smiling. And those people happen to also be the ones who are maintain, who are maintaining that baby's Nervous, System. I mean, there is reward learning, right? Or reinforcement learning right off the bat because these are the people who keep you comfortable. They are the ones who feed you. They're the ones who help you get to sleep and so on and so forth. And so you're gonna be very, very sensitive to changes in the contingencies of their behavior. Your brain as a pattern learner is just gonna learn those patterns. If we know that smiling is more, you know, smiling is a cue for happiness.

2 (36m 28s):
It's 'cause we've learned it. And that doesn't mean that that learning isn't hardwired, it just means that it, that information got into your brain by cultural inheritance, which is a part of evolutionary theory in the extended evolutionary synthesis. Not in the original, you know, not in the original formulation that some people still kind of stick to.

AG1 (36m 54s):
As many of you know, I've been taking AG one daily since 2012, so I'm delighted that they're sponsoring the podcast. AG One is a vitamin mineral probiotic drink that's designed to meet all of your foundational nutrition needs. And, of course, I try to get enough servings of vitamins and minerals through Whole Foods sources that include vegetables and fruits every day. But oftentimes I simply can't get enough servings. But with AG one, I'm sure to get enough vitamins and minerals and the probiotics that I need, and it also contains adaptogens to help buffer stress. Simply put, I always feel better when I take AG one. I have more focus and energy and I sleep better. And it also happens to taste great for all these reasons whenever I'm asked, if you could take just one supplement, what would it be? I answer AG one. If you'd like to try AG one, go to drink AG one.com/ Huberman to claim a special offer. They'll give you five free travel packs plus a year supply of vitamin D three K two. Again, that's drink AG one.com/ Huberman. So it's far more nuanced than it was presented to me in those textbooks. And, and it sounds like it was outright wrong on many Dimensions. Well,

2 (37m 59s):
Can I just mention one thing though, please? This is really serious stuff. Like sometimes people think, well, you know, what's the big deal? This is such a big deal, and I'll tell you why it's a big deal. Because in our culture people believe that they can read mental states of other people by their face. And they believe it so much that it's enshrined in the Legal System. And there are people who lose their lives because juries believe that they can read remorse or, or the lack of it. And in fact, there was just a case, you know, last year I believe where, you know, the Innocence Project got involved because there was a woman who was on death row and what put her on death row was a police officer's claim that he could read her emotions by her, the comportment of her face and her body and, and you know, it was possible to get a stay of execution so that she could be retried.

2 (39m 11s):
And, you know, so I'm not saying she was guilty or not guilty, I'm just saying what put her on death row was evidence that would not be admissible in a scientific way Now. And there are, there are lots of cases where judgments are made that end up impacting people's lives in pretty serious ways. So this is a really serious thing and it's, it's puzzling to me why it's so, it's got such traction, this idea that there are these Universal expressions that we can use to read each other.

2 (39m 55s):
You know, it's, it's just not true. I mean, the science just, it's so overwhelmingly, I feel like, you know, scientists, I don't like to use the T word, you know, the f word fact, you know, it's a scary word, T word truth. But I think in this case, I feel like I can, I can really, at least with a little t I can, I can use it. You probably have particular facial movements that you make on a regular basis that are tells for you. I know I do, you know, my husband can look at my actions and he can make really decent guesses about what's going on for me upstairs, right? But that's because he's known me for 30 years, actually 30 years today.

2 (40m 35s):
I should just say that. Congratulations, we met each other 30 years ago today. But he's, you know, brains are pattern learners. So I'm not saying that everything is random and that there's no, it's all noise. I'm saying that there just aren't these, you know, Universal templates. They just, it's not like that. And we really have to stop assuming that, that, that there are. Well, I'm so glad that you're getting that message out there, and I'm very thankful that you highlighted the seriousness of this, these myths that have propagated. And that's a perfect segue into what I was already going to ask, which is, it's based on something that I think is in very much agreement with what you're saying.

2 (41m 16s):
A previous Guest on this podcast, I think it was our first Guest episode, Dr. Carl Deis Roth, colleague of mine at Stanford, credible bioengineer really, you know, 0.01% in his, you know, category of science as well as a practicing psychiatrist said something which really stuck with me over the years, which I once heard him say, you know, we don't really know how other people feel at all. In fact, most of the time we don't even know how we feel. And that prompted the question for me about how good or poor are we at gauging our own emotional states, and in particular at labeling them both to others and for ourselves.

2 (41m 59s):
And, and so here's the, the direct question. Is language sufficient to capture this incredibly complex thing that we're calling emotions? So for instance, the other day I was in New York with my sister, then she left, I went out for a bit, I was having a pretty good day, and then I returned to the place where I was staying and I was hit with this feeling of intense loneliness and I, don't know why. And then I had a bunch of ideas about how that related to growing up. and I was gonna see friends the next day, and I'm an adult, and so I could use some top-down regulation and say, oh, you know, maybe I'm a little tired, or I didn't because I hadn't slept as well the night before. I've been pretty rested recently. And then I actually wrote in my journal, I, I said, you know, maybe most of feeling good is being pretty well rested and not in any physical pain.

2 (42m 45s):
That's a big part of feeling good is the absence of fatigue and the absence of physical pain. And, and then I thought, wow, that's just so basic. It's like two building blocks. It is clearly insufficient. But then I couldn't think of a word to adequately describe the Emotion that came about an hour later when I was feeling a little bit better, but not completely better. So was I lonely? Not really, not anymore. Was I sad? Not really. But you know, as I head headed out into the city, I was thinking, I don't really have a word for how I feel. I'm sort of okay, not great, not low, you know. And so I think that we have emotional Labels, I certainly do for peaks, you know, these peak emotional states, super happy.

2 (43m 27s):
I loved the time with my sister. We do this every year. This was a particularly good year for us to do this. And, and it went really well. We were texting back and forth how great it was. I certainly know what it feels like to be really down in the, in the pits. I've got language for that. But then there's this huge range in between. And so I guess the simple question is, should we even trust language as a way to understand how we're feeling? Or are there additional, if not better signals that we should perhaps learn to elaborate our understanding of emotions with? So I'm gonna give you an a simple answer and then I'm gonna give you a more complicated answer.

2 (44m 7s):
Great. So the simple answer is no language is not sufficient. Period. Great. I think the way that you have, well, I should say one language is not sufficient. So English is not sufficient, and probably French on its own is not sufficient. And probably Swahili on its own is not sufficient. Although it's very interesting that the, the states that we mark with words in each culture, some of them overlap, but a lot of them don't. And it's very, very useful to have Labels of Emotion concepts from other cultures that, that capture configurations at, or state that we, we don't really mark, we don't mark those and, and sort of distinctively pull them out as as different from other states.

2 (44m 58s):
I'd love to know what some of those are. Oh, they're, they're, I should have brought them with me. I mean, there, there are some, like, there's one, there's a German word, which I can't remember the name of the word, but it's like the experience of someone having a face that deserves a punch. I'm sure someone will tell us in the comments. Yeah. You know, someone, someone who knows German or spend time there, please put that word in, in the comments, but don't, don't punch Anybody. Another one that's my favorite is ligo, which is, it's a Polynesian headhunting Emotion word, and it means exuberant aggression in a group Like soccer or, or headhunting, right?

2 (45m 44s):
Where you're basically, or I should say also in the military. So when I was listening to N p R one day a couple of years ago, must have been more than that. 'cause it's in my book. So it was probably more than seven years ago, I was listening to these guys talk, these former military personnel talk about being deployed in a war where they're with their buddies and they're, they're basically hunting the enemy and they feel exuberant. Like they're, you know, and, and they're, they, it's not that they're happy, but they're, it's pleasant and it's very intense, very high arousal, you know, and in the moment it, it seemed right.

2 (46m 31s):
And then they come back, you know, and they ask themselves like they come back. And so they're now, you know, their deployments ended, now they're back home and they're like, are I a psychopath? Like, I enjoy killing people. What is this about? and I was thinking, no, no, you just experienced li and if you had a word for it, you would understand that it's a groupy feeling where you're all in it together and it's really intense. And, you know, they were experiencing the, the intensity of, of having their life on the line and, and being responsible for their, for their brothers, you know, and sisters in, in, in their troop or, and you know, so the, the, what they would realize is it's a perfectly, it's perfectly within the range of normal human variation.

2 (47m 16s):
It's just that in English, we don't have a word for it really. But there are words that are concepts in other languages, right. Or the not, the other one that I like is called Giggle, which is where when you see a baby who's really cute and you just wanna like, oh, you don't wanna, and I experience Yesterday evening, just squeeze. That kid was so cute. There's little cheeks, they're just like jumping at you and yeah, you just wanna go, oh, I wanna bite you. And the parents are delightful people too. Yeah. Yeah. And Dave was just facing out 'cause they have one of those Yeah. Outward facing baby things. Yeah. And it's just sort of like, yeah. Yeah. It's and I think That Giggle It's called, it's Called Giggle. Giggle. Oh, giggle was from the other episode that we did on Pelvic health. Yeah. Well it also has, that's to do with babies, But Yeah. In a different way. Or there's one in Ja Japan. I think there's a Japanese word for the despair that you feel when you've got a bad haircut.

2 (48m 0s):
Really? Yeah. 'cause it's, I mean it's really is a different kind of feeling than, you know, 'cause you've gotta like wait for it to grow, you know, whatever. Anyways, the point being that amazing words for us, mark particular states, and they're not all the, they're not always the states that other people in other cultures care about. But I, there's a but the, even again, the freezing of your question, I just wanna come back to, and I'm not trying to pick at you, but No, feel Free. No, no. What I love is that what, what you said before when you said my question was ill posed in your, in the answer that followed, it made it very clear why, and I learned something about how the, the, the, the not Emotion system, but the thing plural that, that create emotions work.

2 (48m 44s):
So feel free, I I I grew up in the same culture that you did. I'm not Canadian by birth, but but in the academic culture, yeah. You know, I mean the, the stuff that we take online, by the way folks, is nothing compared to the kind of hazing that I experienced growing up in, in academic culture as it was done then. I don't know if it's still that way now. So feel free. Yeah. I think you I'm tougher than I look. Well No, but I think my point is that I'm trying to get at here is that when we ask questions, any of us me too, anybody asks a question, there are certain Assumptions that we're making in order to allow us to pose the question. And sometimes what I'm taking issue with is not the question itself, but it's the Assumptions behind the question.

2 (49m 27s):
Right? And this is a very classic thing in philosophy of science, which I know I just said the P word philosophy, which scientists, you know, usually they roll their eyes back in their head and they fall over when you talk about that. But I think it's really important. So, you know, can language is language sufficient to label or to, to, to gauge emotional states kind of sounds like, and this is the assumption that people make, that there's a state in here called an Emotion, and now I have to label it and I have to identify it. That is not how it works. Like that is not what your brain is doing at all. And in order to explain what I think is happening and what I my best available guess, you know, like based on what I understand, it's like not even remotely that that is just not a meaningful question at all.

2 (50m 16s):
I do think words are important. I just don't think that they have to be insufficient by virtue of what the brain's actually doing. And the way that I come at this is just really different from a, a lot of my colleagues. So really for a hundred years at least, I hate when people say things like that, like for a hundred years. But it really is like for, for a hundred years at least, what psychologists and neuroscientists do, have or did and are still doing, is they start with a folk experience, a folk category, a common sense experience. I feel angry, I'm making a decision, having a memory, I'm remembering something. They start with their experience and then they go looking for the physical basis of that experience in the brain or in, you know, in the body.

2 (51m 2s):
I think that's really problematic because not everybody in the world actually uses those Categories or has those experiences. Well A lot of that has to do with the scientific publication process for sure. One of the most important statements I ever heard, he's from the late Ted Jones, one of the greatest neuroanatomists of probably the last 500 years, which was the following. He said, A drug is a substance that when injected into an animal or a person produces a scientific paper In many ways, that is wonderful. Yeah, yeah. You kind of catch, catch you square in the face. Can you go? Oh, right. Yeah. I mean, basically every drug disrupts if taken an hour or two before sleep changes the amount of rem sleep that you get.

2 (51m 47s):
And so, so, and I could imagine that almost any perturbation of the language system, the body, the Facial Movement system could give you a quote unquote effect that you could write a paper about. Yeah. But that doesn't mean it has any semblance whatsoever to what's happening in the world when we or other people experience emotions. And, And here's the, here, you know, there's so much in what you said that I, I just wanna, it's very, it's very exciting to talk to you. So the first thing I'll say is that, you know, we often will identify we, we as in the, you know, people, but also scientists, identify biological signals by what we believe them to mean psychologically.

2 (52m 33s):
So serotonin is, is a happiness chemical. No serotonin evolved as a metabolic regulator. It is a metabolic regulator and whatever it's doing, it's allowing an animal to spend resources when the animal, the animal's brain isn't sure there's a, a reward at the end of that. Right. So you were saying before, you know, the absence of fatigue, the absence of Discomfort, that's a, that's a pleasant feeling, right? Well, yeah. So maybe serotonin has something to do with pleasantness because it has something to do with energetics, right? Cortisol. Cortisol is not a stress hormone, it's not a stress hormone.

2 (53m 15s):
I mean, it's a hormone that is secreted more when the brain believes that there is a big metabolic outlay that's required. That's what stress is. Basically. It's the brain believes there's a big metabolic outlet that's about to be required. And it matters. These kind of like little semantic tweaks, like they matter a lot because of how we do, because of how we do research. So I would say I don't start with the Categories that derive from English and my own experience. I start with the Nervous System. I try to learn what is the best available evidence for how that Nervous System evolved, how it developed, how it's structured, right?

2 (54m 1s):
Anatomy, to me, it's very important. Some of my best hypotheses come from just learning the anatomy and realizing, oh no, there's a connection there that's direct. I mean, that should mean something, you know, I mean, I could give you lots of examples of where we've had, we've made discoveries solely because we noticed an an a set of anatomical connections and we're really curious about what they might be involved with. But if you start with that premise, then you think about the brain and I think about the brain in a really different way, right? So I don't think about the brain as a stimulus driven organ.

2 (54m 43s):
I think about it more like this, that the, the brain is, first of all, the brain is not running a model or, or making inferences about the world. All the brain knows is our signals from the sensory surfaces of its body. So your brain is modeling your retina and it's modeling your cochlea and it's modeling the sensory surfaces of the skin. And sure signals, you know, are, you know, hit those surfaces and those surfaces transduced those signals and send them up to the brain. But the brain only knows the body and anything it knows about the world, it knows about the world through the body, through the sensory surfaces of the body.

2 (55m 29s):
So that's the first, for me, really big important point. The second important point is that I think about the brain as being trapped in a dark silent box called your skull. You know, and it's so weird saying these things to you. You're so much, you know, you're like, you, you're this really esteemed like neuroscientist. And here I am explaining to you no, but how I think the brain works. It's just very, you know, Well, it's important for our audience, but it's also important for me, even though yes, I, I know I know these facts, but it's, I I believe it's always informative to go back to the fundamentals. Sure. Because we forget, you know, actually I would say that the, someone once described the, I'll call him the great 'cause he's a great visual neuroscientist, visual neuroscientist.

2 (56m 15s):
Tony Mian, who founded the Department of of Neuroscience at N Y U once said, you know, a real intellectual is somebody that can appreciate and work with a topic at multiple levels of Granularity. For sure, for sure, for sure. Right? It's not about, and oftentimes it, the, the more expertise is associated with more focus on detail. So I love returning to the core basics. So, so I, I think it's wonderful. Okay. Please, please continue. So I think about the brains being trapped in this box, and it's receiving signals continuously from the sensory surfaces of the body. But those signals are the outcomes of some set of changes. And the brain doesn't know what the changes are. It doesn't know the causes of those signals. It just knows the outcomes, it knows the signals. That's what it's receiving.

2 (56m 55s):
And so it has to guess at what the causes of those signals are in order to stay alive. And so that's in philosophy called an inverse problem. So the brain just has a massive continuous inverse problem that it has to deal with all the time. Like it can't have, it doesn't have access to all the information? No, it's just a guessing machine. It's A guessing machine. So for example, you know, if you hear a loud bang, what is that loud bang? Could be a car door slamming. It could be thunder, it could be a car backfiring. It could be a gunshot. The brain doesn't know.

2 (57m 36s):
It has to guess. And it's not making a guess, like a intellectual guess. The guess is a motor plan. It's a plan for changing the internal state of the body in order to support motor skeletal motor movements. Do I need to run, do I need to shut the window? Do I need to get an umbrella? Do I, you know, do I need to hold my breath because a car is backfired? You know, what do I need to do? So where does that plan come from? Well, it comes from past experience, the experience that's been wired into the brain. But the, I think that the evidence suggests that what the brain is doing is basically reinstating bits and pieces of past experience.

2 (58m 28s):
So remembering, although we don't experience ourselves as remembering, but basically it's reimplementing ensembles of signals from the past that are similar to the present in some way. Now, a bunch of things which are similar to each other in psychology is a category. So what the brain is doing is it's creating a, it's constructing a category. And in fact, we think about the brain as a continuous category constructor. It's constructing a category of possible futures, possible outcomes, possible motor plans.

2 (59m 9s):
And how does it know which is the right one? Because it's not just picking one. There's gonna be some sample that it's re it's re-implementing. But how does it know which one, which is the right one? 'cause there can only be one. Well, I feel like in the example of a loud noise, what I immediately thought of as you were describing that is that my system would become aware of it. I would become aware of it. But then it's a question of is there another loud noise? How closely are those loud noises spaced? Is it getting louder or less loud? And then, and so a bunch of Categories, it, it's like a bookshelf with an infinite number of books. But then with the second loud noise, now it's just, you know, one wing of the library.

2 (59m 50s):
And then with the, the next thing that happens in the context, it starts narrowing. And then pretty soon you get presented with the book that says, you know, the roof is about to cave In for sure. And, and I think your, your point, your, your Analogy there is pointing out two things. One is that really why, why the, what the brain is attempting to do is to reduce uncertainty. Because uncertainty is super expensive. Now, sometimes we like deliberately, you know, cultivate uncertainty, right? Like we do not, you know, we deliberately try to learn things we don't, you know, that we don't know. We, we, you know, put ourselves in novel situations, you know, we seek novelty and because it's fun and interesting and whatever.

2 (1h 0m 29s):
Sure. But imagine every single Waking moment of your life was like that, where you didn't know, you couldn't narrow things down from the library to the wing, to the bookshelf, to the, you know, the, to the, the particular shelf on that bookshelf to the be terrifying. Yeah. You, it would be be terrifying. Yeah. It would be. I That's the label I would give it. Yeah. It would be terrifying, right? Because I couldn't plan anything or do anything because all possibilities are open, Right? It's, and it's just actually metabolically unsustainable. And, you know, there are some, there are some brains that are wired in a way that they don't predict very well. They don't create these Categories very well. And so they're, they're dealing with in really unbelievable amounts of uncertainty.

2 (1h 1m 18s):
So that's one thing I is, but the part of what's the goal here, if you could say there's a goal is to reduce uncertainty. And I'm gonna get to why this has anything to do with Emotion in a minute. But I, I just need to set up the ground rules or the Assumptions, you know, of what I'm, what I'm working with here. So the other thing though, that you pointed out, which I think is really important, is that the, none of this is static. It's all evolving over time, right? The signals are evolving over time. So both the signals that are constantly hitting the sensory surfaces of the body and making their way to the brain, but also the intrinsic signals in the brain, it's all changing over time.

2 (1h 1m 59s):
So when we talk about context, that's important, how is the brain making a decision about similarity? Like, what are the features that are similar? It's, it's not just at a single snapshot in time. It's always happening dynamically over time, right? And most of the time though, you don't ask your, you don't wait to hear a second sound. You don't, you're not deliberately attempting to figure out what the sound is. Your brain is just sorting it out, right? And it's sorting it out by narrowing down the possibilities. And there are some selection mechanisms in the brain that help it guess better.

2 (1h 2m 40s):
But also the signals coming from the world are, are also helping to select which possibility is the right one.

Inside Tracker (1h 2m 51s):
I'd like to take a quick break and acknowledge our Sponsor Inside Tracker. Inside Tracker is a personalized nutrition platform that analyzes data from your blood and d n a to help you better understand your body and help you meet your health goals. I'm a big believer in getting regular blood work done for the simple reason that many of the factors that impact your immediate and long-term health can only be analyzed from a quality blood test. However, with a lot of blood tests out there, you get information back about blood lipids, about hormones and so on. But you don't know what to do with that information. With Inside Tracker, they have a personalized platform that makes it very easy to understand your data. That is to understand what those lipids, what those hormone levels, et cetera mean, and behavioral supplement nutrition and other protocols to adjust those numbers to bring them into the ranges that are ideal for your immediate and long-term health. Inside Tracker's ultimate plan now includes measures of both A P O B and of insulin, which are key indicators of cardiovascular health and energy regulation. If you'd like to try Inside Tracker, you can visit Inside Tracker dot com slash Huberman to get 20% off any of inside tracker's plans. Again, that's InsideTracker dot com slash Huberman to get 20% off.

2 (1h 3m 57s):
There's this scene that comes to mind from that movie. I think it was Saving Private Ryan, where like the, the, the guys that are about to hit the ground on D-Day are flinching with every crack of gunfire. Like they're just, everything's a stimulus to move, right? And to, and, and then some of the more seasoned soldiers are literally having bullets whizzing by their head and people are dropping dead all around them, and they're moving forward steely-eyed and stable and upright. And in part we look at that and and say, okay, they're courageous. They're seasoned. Maybe they're desensitized in certain ways, but actually it fits much better with the idea.

2 (1h 4m 42s):
Based on what you're saying, it fits much better with the idea that they have intimate knowledge, both conscious and unconscious knowledge, that something right next to them is a threat, but not a threat worth responding to. Right, exactly. But if it were headed straight for them, yeah, they would quite, quite understandably thought. So what I would say it's, is that it's, it's not, you know, I keep referring to things as signals and really I'm just, I'm, that's like my generic word for a quantity of energy of some sort, you know? But your brain, my brain, every brain is constantly making signal noise distinct, you know, like distinctions, do I need to care about this? Do I, do I not need to care about this? Right? And we have ways of learning and we also have ways of queuing each other.

2 (1h 5m 25s):
So, you know, humans use eye gaze to cue each other about what is signal and what is noise, right? So if you and I were sitting, we're, let's say we were at a coffee shop and we were in a part of town that I'd never been to before, and we were sitting having coffee and you know, a loud siren went by. If you turned and looked, I would probably turn and look because you just queued me that that was something I need to care about. If you ignored it, I'd probably ignore it because you just queued me that I didn't need to worry about it. I didn't need to care. And we're constantly doing that with each other. And we also do it with little babies and with kids. And that's how we teach children. This is signal, this is noise. This you need to worry about this you can ignore.

2 (1h 6m 6s):
And so yeah, your, your description is perfect. So what does this have to do? Any of this have to do with Emotion In order to answer that part of the question? I, I, I wanna say, so okay, you've got these signals. The brain is like, has these electrical signals going on? We'll just ignore the hormonal signals for the moment. 'cause that's complic, you know, one is complicated. So it's got all these electrical signals going on. It's when it's remembering something, it's just basically reinstating a pattern of signals and it's got these signals coming in from the sensory services. Okay, so what's, so what is the brain doing? It's a signal processor. So what is it? I don't mean a computer, I mean a signal processor in the engineering sense.

2 (1h 6m 47s):
So what's it, what is it doing without getting into all the dynamics of Prediction and, you know, whatever, what the brain is doing is it's, it's assembling a set of features. It's some of the features that it's assembling are very close in detail to the sensory surfaces of the body. So in primary visual cortex, there's a retina topic map the details there are very, very low level, like a line, an edge, you know, same thing in primary auditory cortex, right? It's tone atopic. So there are tones, but it's very, very, very low level details.

2 (1h 7m 28s):
And we might, there are many, many, many, many of these little features. So we would say there, there's a, it's a high dimensional array. Lots and lots and lots and lots of features. And then, and let's just talk about one structure, just the cerebral cortex. Let's not worry about just, but what I'm about to say is basically true of really the rest of the brain as well. If you take the cortex off the surface, the cortical sheet off the, that wavy, you know, cortical sheet, you take it off the rest of the brain, the subcortical parts, and you stretch it out like a napkin. You can see there's a Compression gradient there in the architecture of the neurons. So at the primary sensory areas, there are these tiny little parametal neurons that are representing these, these very low level features, and they feed into bigger neurons, which feed into bigger neurons, which feed into more bigger neurons.

2 (1h 8m 19s):
So what's happening is you've got this very detailed array being compressed in its dimensionality until you get to the middle of the brain at the front where there are many fewer neurons, but they're bigger and they have many more connections. So it's a dimensionality reduction that's happening. So Just to make sure I understand correctly, and that the audience understands the physical world obviously is transformed by our sensory apparati, the retina, the cochlea, the, the sensing neurons in our skin. Yeah. It's physical things, mechanical pressure, light photon, sound waves. Okay.

2 (1h 8m 59s):
Tho that's translated into Neural code, which is chemical and electrical. Yeah. And, and those sensory inputs are, are fairly vast and these high dimension, high dimensionality. So lots of different orientations of lines. A lot even, you know, even though it originates with just three cone photo pigments, lots of opportunity for encoding different shades of color contrast. Okay. And all of that. And so you have lots of little neurons to represent all the possibilities of the physical world that are occurring. But as that information is passed further up along, excuse, I have to be careful with hi, the use of hierarchies. 'cause that's controversial nowadays. Not for political reasons, but for accuracy reasons.

2 (1h 9m 42s):
As that information is passed along, there's more convergence onto a smaller number of larger neurons. So these are neurons that have access to a lot of information, but in courser form, Right? So they're low, you know, it's like, like compressing an MP three, like how an MP three compresses information, for example. So the cortex is representing features. So, and I represent, I'm just using that in a generic way Sure. Because that's also controversial about exactly how is the brain. Okay. But yeah, but it works. But for now I'm using it just in a generic way. So you go from lines and edges to a shape, like a round shape to a face to, right?

2 (1h 10m 24s):
So you're, you're basically, you're, you're, you're going, what's happening is there are Summaries of Summaries. Of Summaries. Of Summaries. I love that. I hope everyone hears that. 'cause I've been in this field of neuroscience a long time as you move along the neuro axis from the sensory epithelium. Now it sounds very, very nomenclature ish, but from the surface of the skin inward, you're getting Summaries Yeah. As and more and more Summaries. I think that's so important. I that's a, that's a like a gazillion dollar statement. Thank you for understanding of the Nervous System. So, But each of those points correspond to some mental feature, like a line or an edge or a circle or a square or a face or, right.

2 (1h 11m 12s):
But, but now then you, when you, when you're in the midline at the front, what are those features? Well, those features are things like they're, they're Multimodal Summaries, meaning they're Summaries of the sights and sounds and smells and Right. But they, and they are lower dimensional, meaning they're, they're coarser. So there are things like threat, reward, pleasure, I mean, really abstract. That's what abstract means. It doesn't mean that those representations have no sensory or motor meaning that, that it means that threat, for example, A summary can have many different patterns associated with it.

2 (1h 11m 56s):
And the brain is treating them all as equivalent. This, this to me, again, feels so, so important for people to understand because as I'm hearing this, and this word Summaries is just ringing in my mind. It's so important because one of the core Components of my experience of my emotions, 'cause that's all I can really say for sure, my subjective Interpretation and labeling of my own emotions, is that they are pretty broad bins, like I described earlier. They're pretty broad bins. And so that, that's where I was exactly where I was going. So what about the word anger?

2 (1h 12m 37s):
Where is that represented? Like, well, that's a, that's a one of these Multimodal abstractions. In fact, anger is just a couple of phon Eames, it's a couple of sounds, but those sounds, the sound of anger corresponds over thousands of instances that you've learned in your life to very different patterns of sensory motor features. That's right. Because what's going on in your body during anger can vary. What the way you move your face in anger can vary depending on the situation. What you see someone else doing in anger can vary. And so the word anger, or any word is actually just a Multimodal summary of many, many, many, many instances which are in their sensory and motor features.

2 (1h 13m 32s):
The sensory and motor meaning very different. And, and it seems to me are highly constrained by developmental and cultural experience. Absolutely. Because just today I learned that there's a word in Japan for the feeling that one has of having gotten a haircut. They don't, like there's a word in Germany that pertains to the feeling of wanting to punch someone specifically because of the look on their face. Well, really It's more like you, like you, they, to you, it feels like they're asking to be punched in the face. Got, even, even so you added yet more dimensionality to it. So upon learning just those things, just today there is, is additional dimensionality brought in such that if I were to ever want to punch somebody in the face simply because of the look on their face, that I wouldn't necessarily label that as anger alone.

2 (1h 14m 26s):
It now has another dimension to it. And so I, I think I'm finally, I think I'm finally starting to understand how the developmental and the cultural influences plus the fact that language is a pretty crude descriptor for this Neural process that you're describing. Oh, it's absolutely, absolutely. But okay, so, but, but before you use the word Granularity, and so I'm going to use that word too. In fact, I've view, I've coined that phrase Emotional, Granularity, just as an aside, you know, I, I coined that phrase almost 30 years ago, and now people study it like it's a phenomenon, which is cool in a sense, but also I kind of wanna keep reminding them, like, that's a word that refers to a process.

2 (1h 15m 12s):
It's not a thing, it's a process. And the, but the process is, so when the, the brain is a category constructor, how fine-grained are the Categories? How precise are the Categories, right? Like, if you are using, if you are feature of equivalence that your brain is using is threat, you're in really big trouble. 'cause there are like a gazillion different sensory motor patterns that could go with threat. So your category is gonna be massive. So how does the brain figure out which of those massive number of options is the one to use in this, in, in, in this instance, if on the other hand, you don't just wanna use sensory motor patterns as the features of equivalence or the features that you're using to say this instance right now is similar to these past instances.

2 (1h 16m 4s):
If I had to search, like right now what is similar to right now, it would be me sitting across the table from somebody who has a beard and is dressed in black. And you know, there, there are a lot of details there that probably don't matter, right? So you, you'd be searching for a specific match from the past that's not very efficient either. So you need something in the middle. And that'd be, that is to say you need to have ca your brain has to be able to make Categories that are more fine grained, but not super fine grained. But they have to be more fine grained than just threat. Yeah. You want to keep the, in the Library Analogy that I made earlier, you want to keep the rest of the library accessible at some level.

2 (1h 16m 46s):
Yeah. So you're not just staring at that one book. But if you use the category bad, this feels bad, then your brain is basically going to be partially constructing an entire wing full of books, like a entire wing full of options. If you use the word angry, then maybe it's a bookcase. It's constructing a bookcase full of options and a category that's the size of a bookcase. And if you were using the word frustrated, then maybe it's a shelf, the brain can learn to construct Categories at different scales of gen generalizability.

2 (1h 17m 30s):
So if I'm in an instance and my brain is making a guess, is it drawing from past instances that were associated with the word anger, were associated with the word fear? Maybe it's some combination. It's the words are just features, they're just sounds. There are also all sorts of other features. Like, what was my heart doing? What, what, what kind of motor actions did I make? What did I see next? So the point being that I'm trying to bring here is that it's not like your brain creates an emotional state and then Labels it. What your brain is doing is creating a category of possible futures of what's gonna ha what it's gonna do next.

2 (1h 18m 14s):
And that state is largely determined by the what the brain is remembering and how it's drawing from that huge population, that huge library of options. Which books is it sampling? I love this so much because it explains so much that frankly has been perplexing to me and also somewhat troubling to me. Like for instance, I, we hear about emotional intelligence, you know, and, and sometimes I wonder whether or not true emotional intelligence would be what you just just described, the understanding of how this process works so that you can work with it. and I definitely want to talk about how one can work with this knowledge, because I think it's incredibly powerful in, its, its explanatory power, but also its actionable power.

2 (1h 19m 3s):
The other thing is that it's clear to me, just based on my experience today, of hearing these words from other cultures that relate to different emotional states, that the system, unlike a lot of systems in the brain, I like to think is fairly plastic. Yeah. Like the moment that you know, that there are additional Dimensions to sadness, anger, et cetera, there's something comforting about that. What's really unsettling is the idea that we have such broad bins that we are, we would define, you know, a near infinite number of situations as just fear that would suck. That's not a good existence. And yet I have to ask whether or not you think that as a species, not as a culture, but in our entire species, whether or not we are taking the exact opposite approach that we're sort of moving into the emoji ization.

2 (1h 19m 54s):
Is that a word? I'll make it a word and people can assault me in the comments, the emoji ization of this very rich and complex system. Yes. We're starting to get into this mode of like, I'm gonna post an angry face and therefore like, this is a bad, I'm angry at you. This is a bad interaction. We're gonna, it's, it's combat potentially combative or, and you know, maybe Twitter x or Instagram or other Social Media sites are kind of the, the epitome of this, where you reduce this high dimensional space in you, you keep the, the sensory stimulation very high. It's movie after movie after movie and color and sound and people doing crazy parkour stuff and bears eating giraffes or whatever it is.

2 (1h 20m 35s):
Probably not bears eating giraffes, but like, you know what I mean? And you can see stuff that's sexual and violent and political and emotional and sweet. And then the cats are kissing the monkey and you're like, or the monkey's kissing the cat. And so it's high dimensionality in terms of sensory space, but then what do we call it? We're like, oh, this is an emoji. You assign an emoji, you're harting something, you're giving a thumbs up or a thumbs down. So I almost feel like we we're trying to, we we're regressing to a state where we're kinda like an infant trying to figure out like, what the hell is going on? And we're saying, you know what, you get like six Categories of response when in reality we should probably be expanding the number of different responses that we can have in order to accurately match the way that our Nervous System actually works.

2 (1h 21m 18s):
Yes, exactly. There are many different things we could talk about with respect to the summary that you just gave, which I and I think is completely accurate. So what I would say is that if you look through even just the last, I don't know, hundred or so years, like the 19th, you know, 19th, 20th centuries, maybe you can see that the complexity of the, of people's responses expands and contracts, right? So for example, this is something that I've written really speculatively about, but one of the things that I found really interesting is that, you know, authoritarianism, authoritarian thinking is the reduction of complexity to some things that are really, really simple.

2 (1h 22m 7s):
Like you're getting rid of all the complexity to, you know, basically these very, very course low dimensional judgments and things become black and white. It's the avoidance of complexity so that there can be simple single answers to things, and it happens in human culture at times. And then, then there's an expansion of complexity at times too. So what predicts that? Like what is it in the human Nervous System or our collective human nervous, you know, like we're we're just a bunch of brains attached to bodies interacting with other brains and bodies, right?

2 (1h 22m 52s):
So like, what is it that causes these ripples of, and, and I have some thoughts about that, that are really, really, really speculative. But I think the other thing that's, that's really important is that we've talked about, we'll go back to our, our cortical sheet that we've, and by the way, this is just one Compression gradient in the brain. There are others too, right? There are at least four others that I can think of. So this is just one. But all Compression gradients work the same way, which is that now we've talked about going from the low level details compressing to these Multimodal Summaries. These really like simple features that are right, but that Compression is what engineers would call lossy.

2 (1h 23m 40s):
Meaning you lose the information, you lose the information. So when you go from lines and edges to a face, those neurons, they just know the face. They don't have, they lose what they've thrown away the details, they've thrown away those details are gone for those neurons that are representing a face, they Don't have access to that, They don't have access to it. You know, so we said, well, the brain is making a guess. It's making a guess about what these, what this big, very, very high dimensional, you know, soup of signals in the world and in the body. Like what do they mean, right? When the brain makes a guess, it starts with the compressed low dimensional signals.

2 (1h 24m 23s):
It starts with the features like anger or like threat, or it starts with these Summaries. And then it has to infer or guess at every synapse there's a guess that's being made about what the details are at the next level. Because what's happening is, the guess is basically the brain going from these really general things to these very specific sensory motor patterns. It happens along the cortical sheet, it happens also down the neuro axis, down the nerve, you know, from the cortex to the midbrain, to the brainstem, to the spinal cord. You have to go from a representation of, you know, run to the actual physical movements of muscles spindles and, you know, angles of joints and things like that.

2 (1h 25m 15s):
So what you're doing is you're going in the other direction, you're adding detail, you're particularizing, and the brain is guessing. It's guessing. Well if it's using anger as the general feature, well, which, which instance of anger is it? And what are the specifics that are gonna happen? And, And what are the witness? And forgive me, but, and what are the adaptive steps that I might take or not take? Because I'm quoting a lot today, so forgive me. But in the words of the great sherton Nobel Prize winning physiologist, the final common pathway is movement. Is movement. And that's, And, and movement is nuanced, right?

2 (1h 25m 57s):
Yeah. Humans, I, I suppose have among the greatest variety of different speeds and types of movement and I, think about parkour, gymnastics, think about then what like a a, a cheetah can do. Cheetahs are impressive. A gymnast is truly impressive in terms of the range of movements and speeds, et cetera. In any event, the ultimate choice of the Nervous System has to make is whether or not to move which direction, how fast or stay still. Yeah. Move forward, move back. And, and I just, I'll just add because I I'm hoping that you'll expand on this. It's been said before that ultimately the Nervous System is trying to make decisions about yum, yuck or meh. Like, like, am I gonna move towards something?

2 (1h 26m 37s):
Am I gonna move away from it or am I just gonna stay put? And Well, that's only, that's only at the, the, the, that, that's a very, that I would say that those are very low dimensional features. So those are those compressed features. But that's not the only thing the brain has to decide. That's just a misnomer. Well, I can get out of this little pickle that I just put myself in by saying that. I didn't say that. No, I know you. And now I won't quote who did, 'cause he's a very famous neuroscientist, but he tried to reduce it all. He's at Caltech, it, he's not somebody who studies Emotion. He studies the visual system. But he said that, you know, that, that there's a, that that the Neural circuits, maybe it's 'cause he studies mice are, are essentially bend into yum, yuck and meh outputs. And, and I, I've always liked it on the one hand 'cause threes work and it's simple, but rarely is the way that we describe things, the way it actually works.

2 (1h 27m 22s):
Yep. So we would, you know, in, in studying humans, we would say, well, that's affect, affect, that's mood. Or you know, it's just like, is it, is it, should I move towards it? Is it pleasant? Should I move away from it? Is it unpleasant? Or, you know, is it irrelevant? Basically like, I don't care. Okay, think about when you're feeling horrible. You just feel, you feel hor. You just feel, you feel bad. What do you do? You don't know what to do. You Don't know because you don't have a plan of action. And that's ultimately, that is what those, those compressed like summary features, those very low course features, they have to be decompressed into details. Otherwise you don't know what to do.

2 (1h 28m 3s):
So ultimately what the brain is doing is it's sampling from the past based on similarity to the present to plan an action. And when I say action, I don't just mean skeletal motor action like moving a limb. It you, the first actions that are planned are the actions of coordinating the heart and the lungs and you know, all of the internal actions that are required to support the motor, the skeletal motor movements. So your brain is making, is categorizing and it's making a it's, it's creating a category. And it's, there are options there. Those options, the motor plans begin with, should the heart beat faster?

2 (1h 28m 46s):
Should it be slower? Does blood pressure need to go up? Should the, you know, should the blood vessels constrict or should they dilate? Should the breathing be deeper or more shallow? I mean, those are the first plans that get made. And then milliseconds later, there are the skeletal motor plans. And then your experience of the world derives from those motor plans. Those visceral motor, that is the plans for the viscera, for the internal organs and the skeletal motor. So I'm just gonna refer to them as motor. Those motor plans actually give rise to your experience of the world. There's not some state that exists as an emotional state, which then you apply a label to.

2 (1h 29m 27s):
The label is a, just a set of features that are useful for generalizing from the past to the present. And the bin size or the, the, you know, of, of what a word refers to can change. It can change, it's different for different people. And it can change in your lifetime. And you can add new bins. That is, you can, so for example, there's a, there's a concept gokin look, which I probably just butchered. So if you speak Turkish, I'm sorry, but it's like, it has features of it, of like loss and like people blocking your goals.

2 (1h 30m 11s):
So we would say it's anger and sadness together. That's gokin. Look, when you lose something and you're pissed off about it, that's a, but that's a category on its own right? It's just a different way of parsing that, that that really detailed soup. And the more words, you know, the more words are just useful for pointing to a set of features that are similar to each other. So what I mean by that is, if I say to you, Andrew, I had pizza last night for dinner pizza two sounds, two syllables. That those two syllables sat, they stand in for like 50 different sensory and motor features.

2 (1h 30m 56s):
'cause I don't have to say to you, I had a food, I didn't have p of last night, but let's say I did, I had a food that was round and flat and had sauce and also cheese and it, it had mozzarella cheese and also a little Parmesan cheese and it had mushrooms on it and a little bit of olive. And you know, that's like really, really detailed and complicated. But instead I can just say I had pizza, two features, two sounds, two syllables, phonemes. And with those two phone names I have just communicated to you in your brain, my brain had 50 features. It was representing of details. And now I have just communicated those to you, or some number of them with two sounds very efficient.

2 (1h 31m 44s):
Now of course you might think that I was from Chicago and had deep dish pizza and I'll just resist. I don't wanna like offend anybody from Chicago. It's not pizza. I'll, that's not real pizza. That's not real pizza, right? So you could then ask me, was it, but you're from Chicago, is that deep dish pizza? And then I would say, no, no, I'm actually from Toronto, which is just like New York. And so no, it was thin crest pizza, which is really the only kind of pizza there is just saying. But, you know, but my point is that words are just stand in for, they're just low. These like low dimensional features.

2 (1h 32m 23s):
These, these sort of gross features that stand in for many, many, many, many little detailed features. And that's how we communicate with each other. So, and, And we are constrained by, you know, what we know in our Yes. So, and what we can say and our, the extent of our vocabulary, And I'll just say that little babies, three months old, they don't speak yet and they don't understand language, but they can use words to learn abstract Categories. So abstract just means that the, the word refers to many different patterns of sensory motor features. So the word is, or the category, the things that make the instances similar are a function or a goal, not like the sensory motor feature.

2 (1h 33m 10s):
So you say to a baby very explicitly, like, because we're talking about three, four month old babies, right? Babies can also do this implicitly too. But in experiments you say to a baby, look sweetie, this is a bling. And you put the bling down and it makes a beeping noise. And then you say, now this looks different, feels different, right? Smells different. Look sweetie, this is a bling. It beeps. Now you take something else, which also is different and you say, look sweetie, this is a bling.

2 (1h 33m 54s):
Now the baby expects this to beep. By the way, folks just listening, Lisa just gave three examples. First with a pen, then a coffee mug, and then her very own watch three very distinct objects, but all of which make that are told, the baby is told make a bling sound. And they will bin those three. Yeah. Visually distinct objects, functionally distinct objects into one single bin. Because They make a because they are sharing a function, which is to beep. I think this is so, is so important and I, and if I may, I I, I want to ask whether or not we can take this incredible understanding of emotions.

2 (1h 34m 40s):
'cause that's really what we're talking about. We're Really talking about how the brain, my, my version of how the brain works and how emotions emerge out of this system basically. And, and absolutely you described it far better than I could and, and, and anchor that to this concept of movement. That the movement is the final common path with the understanding that the movement system, and forgive me, but that we have systems in the brain and body that allow us to move. That's for sure. Systems plural, that they run in both directions. In other words, how we feel, what we feel our emotions has some bearing on the movements that are more or less likely for us in a given context.

2 (1h 35m 23s):
And our movements clearly can also influence the way that we feel internally. Well, It's, well, I mean, so if, if we just look at how things are happening, here's, here's what the anatomy tells us, that when the brain makes a guess, that guess starts as a motor plan, starts as a visceral motor plan and a skeletal motor plan. So heart rate changes, breathing changes, blood pressure changes, and, and potentially skeletal muscle movement, right? And literal copies, literal copies, efferent copies of those signals are sent to, they propagate to the sensory areas, telling the brain, telling those neurons, this is the last time we made this in this context when this other stuff just happened, the, like this temporal context, right?

2 (1h 36m 10s):
The, and we made these movements, here's what we saw next. Here's what we felt next, here's what we smelled next. So Yeah, I think of this, the image that pops in my mind, and we should explain to people what efferent copy is in neuroscience and neuroanatomy, the connection to a structural is called an afferent with an A and the connection's out from a structure called the efferent. You know? But the way I was thinking, It doesn't even matter. It's just basically the point here is that in our experience, in our, in the way the brain, your brain conjures an experience, okay? And, and that experience is that you feel something first, you see something, you feel something, you act. That's not what's happening.

2 (1h 36m 51s):
What's happening is your brain is preparing the action first and the feeling what, and your experience comes from that action preparation. So it's a copy. It's like literally you have axons that are sending motor signals down the, the, you know, brainstem to the spinal cord and literal copies of those axons. Like those axons have branches that collateral branches that just send axons to other places. The same signal that is being sent to your spinal cord to move stuff in your body. That same signal is being sent to other neurons in the brain as predictions of the sensations that are gonna happen in a second from now, a moment from now, probably faster than a second, but you know, in a couple milliseconds if you move.

2 (1h 37m 44s):
And so yes, it is the case that what you feel is linked to what you do and what you do is linked to what you feel. But not in this simple mechanistic way that, that neuroscientists and psychologists have been using forever. You, it's not like you are, you, are you, you, you're probed by a stimulus. You, you see something, you hear something, and then you process it and evaluate it, and then you react to it. No, that's not what's happening. What's actually happening under the hood is that based on how things are right now, your brain makes a guess or some guesses. And those guesses start as motor plans.

2 (1h 38m 24s):
And the consequence of those motor plans are predicted sensations. And then of course, sensory signals are coming from the sensory surfaces. And they say, and here's the really, here's to me the really the most mind boggling thing about this whole explanation. If your sensory neurons in your sensory areas are already, so they're firing the, the, the, the action potentials, the spiking has changed based on these prepared motor movements. So these are sensory predictions. And you know, when I give talks and on my website, I have some cool examples of, of how this works. You can experience it yourself. You, you, you know, start to experience, you know, you hear things that aren't there.

2 (1h 39m 7s):
You, you feel vibrations in your chest that aren't there because your brain is predicting, it's predicting these sensations. So let's say the sensations come, the, the sensory signals, I should say, let me say. So the sensory signals from the sensory surfaces of the body make it to the brain. If you have, if your neurons are already firing in a way to anticipate those signals, those signals just confirm the firing and then they're done. They don't make it any further into the brain. So when you're predicting, well, your experience is constructed completely by your brain, the signals from the sensory surfaces are there just to confirm or to change the signals.

2 (1h 39m 56s):
So if there's things you didn't anticipate, then those errors of Prediction, those are the signals that are propagated and become compressed and stuff. And we have a special name for that in science, we call it learning. You know, Andy Clark is a philosopher who writes a lot about Prediction predicting brain and and so on. And he talks about normal everyday experiences being a controlled hallucination. I think that's true. Yeah. I subscribe to that. It's a fairly adaptive, in most circumstances, controlled hallucination. But, but it has its limitations.

2 (1h 40m 36s):
And it, I mean, what we were talking about, if I could be a somewhat of a summary neuron, you can tell me if my summary is too course. Is that first of all, that the Neural systems and the brain, let's just call it the Nervous System, 'cause we're talking about brain and body are incredibly dynamic. There's, it's a bunch of inputs. Those inputs gets, are incredibly elaborate. They get summarized, the summary prepares the body for a certain action that's a motor commands, a pre-motor commands, and then some action may or may not be taken. But already, as soon as an action is taken or not taken, the whole state of the Neural system is different. It's changed as a consequence of just, of what just happened.

2 (1h 41m 17s):
And, of course, when people hear that, and when I hear that indeed, I, I feel like, wow, it's, it's a tough system to study because these are dynamical Neural systems. Sure. And, and we have the technology to put people in functional scanners and look at what lights up, so to speak. We have the capacity to ask people how they feel based on questionnaires. But you can imagine that's incredibly crude. So then you give them Likert scales of, you know, rate from one to 10, how happy or sad you are. And so you're adding some, some depth and dimensionality to it. But it's incredibly crude. It's nothing like real experience. And if somebody's more verbal, less verbal, maybe they somaticize more or less.

2 (1h 41m 57s):
I mean, an example comes to mind that, you know, occasionally you learn from Social Media, which often I learn from Social Media. And someone once said, I don't think in thoughts, I think in fields. and I thought, okay, great, you're probably also from Northern California. and I said, wait, Andrew, stop being so judgmental, what do you mean? and I asked, and they said, I experience emotions in their mind first as a, as a bodily state. Then the label comes much later. That's not how it works for me. It feels fairly more integrated brain and body for me. But other people started chiming in. No, I think of Emotion, I experience emotions clearly as a verbal label. It's all in their head.

2 (1h 42m 37s):
And so you start to realize that we might all be encoding the world slightly differently or very differently. And it's changing in time. So then the question becomes, you know, how, what are the anchor points in terms of our understanding of emotions that we can work with? And, and, and the following questions come to mind. Neither you nor I are clinicians, as far as I know, I'm certainly not, I was Actually trained as a clinician. Oh, There you go. I'm wrong again, but I, but I Haven't, no, no, no. But I mean, I haven't pr I haven't practiced in like really gazillions of years. So, Okay, well you're, you're well, you're more than qualified to answer the question I'm about to ask, which is, to me, there is a great conflict of information in the psychology, psychiatry, and let's just call it wellness and mental health space, which is when we are feeling lousy, like not good, let's put valence on it.

2 (1h 43m 28s):
Just lousy. I don't want in a state that we we're having an Emotion that we don't want to have. There's an entire category of information that says you need to feel your feelings, you need to feel your feelings, you need to acknowledge that they're there. You need to go into the feeling, maybe even full catharsis. You need to amplify the feelings until they quote unquote leave your body. After all Steve Jobs was into scream therapy and he helped him expunge his anger. Who knows? You get these examples, he's probably the worst example. 'cause it seemed like he was angry a lot from what I hear. But then there's another category of thought, which is no, you need to use your ability to top down control inhibition of the cortex on lower structures.

2 (1h 44m 12s):
Again, I'm deliberately using crude language here to say, wait, you know, this is an Emotion emotions pass. This is not real. This is just a limited set of high dimensionality stuff that's been summarized. And you know what? Like, I don't need to feel this way. I can make myself feel differently. Maybe I'll go for a run. In fact, I always feel better after I go for a run. So even this question as simple as should we feel our our feelings or should we not feel our feelings? And, of course you would hope that this would be answered appropriately such that people don't go harm other people or themselves. Sure, sure, sure. But, but, but assuming that they're not gonna harm other people or themselves verbally or physically, then you really get yourself into a bit of a pickle.

2 (1h 44m 55s):
Like, we don't understand what to do with emotions ours or other people's, because clearly we don't understand emotions per se. So I would say, I'm gonna answer your question and then I wanna also pick at the word the, I wanna pick at an assumption because it, it's come up actually a couple of times and there's something super important in your Descriptions that I just wanna pull out for, for the listeners. 'cause this thing's really important and you're doing it very naturally. But I think some people it would be, it just bears commenting on. So let me just deal with the question of should we feel our feelings or use our words, you know, we say to little kids, use your words like, don't throw a tantrum.

2 (1h 45m 39s):
Right? But then there was also this other feeling below, just feel it's important to feel, and you don't wanna get it, have it be pent up and you know, this whole, Or use your body and like, like hit a pillow. Yeah. I mean there's scream therapy. Bite the pillow. Yeah, scream the pillow. Tear the pillow. Yeah. I mean there's, you can pay $5,000 for a week of doing this. Yeah. So, and they'll tell you're gonna feel better at the end. Yeah. So, Right. The answer there is, it's the wrong question. Like, flexibility is important for everything always, right? So first of all, you don't have, you don't have emotions in your body. Your body doesn't keep the score, you know? Yeah. Great book title because it's super catchy. Yeah. But with all due respect to, I think the important work of VanDerKolk, I think it oversimplified and led people to believe that their back pain was trauma and that all trauma is somaticize.

2 (1h 46m 31s):
But I, and it's not, No, it's not. But I, I would go further and say like, first of all, your body does keep the score. Your brain keeps the score, your body is the scorecard. That's super important. And he has done really important work. But his explanations for why things work is scientifically incorrect. It just is because we don't feel things in our bodies. We, everything we feel, we feel in our brains, we don't see in our eyes, we see in our brains, of course we need our eyes, but we don't see in our eyes, just like if you, you know, pinch your, your hand with, you know, take skin and pinch between, you know, two, two fingers the skin.

2 (1h 47m 15s):
You don't feel that actually in your hand. You feel it in your brain. That's the magic of the brain in a sense. So what I would say is it, it depends on the situation and what your goal is. Sometimes it is useful to use your words, and sometimes it is useful to go for a run. It just depends on what your goal is. Well, In both those cases, you're, you're that you gave both those examples. Excuse me. You're, it's a way of shifting off the Emotion. I guess what I'm asking is, Well, sometimes you don't wanna shift off the Emotion. Sometimes the mo sometimes the wisest thing to do is live in the Emotion.

2 (1h 47m 59s):
That is, you know, sometimes Discomfort, sometimes when something feels bad, it doesn't mean something is wrong. It just might mean that you're doing something hard. Well, earlier I wrote when you were talking about the, the broad categorization of emotions, I, I wrote down, you know, simple is good when it feels good. Like I just feel really great. But then when things feel lousy, well that's where nuance could be beneficial. Yeah, Absolutely. Because we're, because emotions are recipes for action that when you go from be feeling bad to feeling anger or, or sad, it's a recipe for action. and I would also say, and this just, this is an Analogy, but I, I sort of, I stand by it, you know, when I was, I had major back surgery a couple years ago, and I know something about chronic pain.

2 (1h 48m 46s):
It's not my area of study, but I know something about it. 'cause I've, I've reanalyzed some, some data sets and I've read a lot. So I'm not an expert, but, you know, I have ideas. and I thought to myself, well, I just, I don't wanna end up with chronic back pain. So what I did was, I made sure after I got through the first couple of weeks where I really needed oxycodone so that I could walk, you know, I was up and walking the same day. I had surgery, if you could call it walking as sort of a euphemism for like, hobbling around on a, with a walker. But I made sure that I felt the pain. That is, I dosed myself with Discomfort quite deliberately because I wanted to make sure that I'm, I'm, I'm sorry for using, you know, Cartesian language.

2 (1h 49m 31s):
I don't know how else to say this. I, I wanted my brain to be taking in the Prediction error. I wanted my brain to, to feel the, to, to, to, I wanted to focus attention on the changing dis you know, the, the changing Discomfort over time because it meant that my body was healing as the Discomfort got less. But my brain would never feel that Discomfort changing if I took painkillers. And because the Prediction error, the things that the brain doesn't predict are teaching signals. and I think it's true also in your life.

2 (1h 50m 12s):
Like sometimes you wanna feel it because you, you wanna feel the Discomfort because it's instructive about something. And sometimes it's not. And that's, maybe that's not really an answer. But the only way that you can figure that out for yourself is to do it. Sometimes if you're always getting rid of Discomfort, you never know when it's useful. And it is useful sometimes. But now I wanna get to this point that I was making before, like we are talking about feeling and Emotion interchange, like they're interchangeable and they're not, right. So here's how I would say it. Your brain is always regulating your body 24 7, and your body is always sending sensory signals back to the brain about the sensory state of the body.

2 (1h 50m 58s):
And our nervous systems aren't wired for us to experience those sensory changes that are happening in the body in any degree of detail. We're just not. And it's a good thing, like right now, as we talk here, our hearts are beating and our, you know, pancreas is squishing stuff out. You know, li liver is, you know, filtering and like, you know, oxygen concentrations are changing. Like, oh, there's a whole drama going on inside each of us and our listeners. And we're largely not aware and I hope our listeners aren't aware because if they were, they would not be listening to anything we were saying.

2 (1h 51m 40s):
They'd be completely, you know, in enraptured or, or in Discomfort at what's going on inside them. Instead, the brain creates a low dimensional summary. This gross kind of like barometer, which is feeling, affective feeling, we call it, or you could call it mood, but scientists call it affect with an, a feeling, pleasant feeling, unpleasant feeling worked up, feeling calm, feeling comfortable, feeling uncomfortable. It's kind of a general barometer of the state of the body. And it's not Emotion that those feelings, those features of feeling are features of consciousness because your brain is always regulating your body.

2 (1h 52m 22s):
Your body's always sending signals back to the brain. The brain is always representing them in this low dimensional way, whether you're paying attention or not. Like whether the brain is focusing, it's, you know, applying attention to those neurons or not. The, those signals are there. And even when we're not emotional, you know, like if you're driving on the highway and somebody cuts you off and you think, what an asshole, the assholeness of that person, that intensity of that negative affect is you experience it as a property of that person, but really it's coming from you. It's, it's not a property of that person. It's, that's a feature of your experience in that moment.

2 (1h 53m 7s):
And affect is always there. Sometimes it's in the foreground, sometimes it's in the background, but it's always there. And it's a summary of physical things, which is why it helps to, if you take ibuprofen or Tylenol, it will redu. I mean, studies show it reduces negative feeling. If you go for a run, if you go for a walk, if you shift your attention to the outside world, then the features that of experience that are derived from the inside world diminish. That's why going for a run helps or going for a walk helps, or, you know, getting sleep helps, right? These are all things where you're changing the state of your body.

2 (1h 53m 50s):
And so the sensory state of your body's changing. And so your affect changes. But emotions are the story that the brain tells about what caused the sensory signals that affect derives from. So what caused those changes? What do I need to do about those changes? That's, that's like, it's a, it's a much bigger event than just these features of experience, which are all features of consciousness, which are always there. They're always there. And in fact, in our culture, we, we pathologize people when they just experience their bodies as physical sensations and not as emotions.

2 (1h 54m 34s):
Like we say, oh, that person is so much somaticizing or somatizing, they're not. They should, they're really, they're, they should be experiencing Emotion, but really they're, you know, just experiencing a stomach ache. And that's bad. But that's actually a judgment call that is probably sometimes wrong. Sometimes it's probably better to experience a stomach ache. Sometimes it's more productive. Part of being emotionally intelligent is knowing when not to construct an Emotion, you know, like right before co the Covid pandemic was announced officially I was in New Zealand giving talks and my daughter who was, who was in college at that time was flying literally like, I think less than a week before the pandemic was announced.

2 (1h 55m 24s):
She got on a plane and she flew to New Zealand to meet me because it was spring break. and I always would bring her with me on spring break. And in that, and I remember really vividly I was in New Zealand. There was only one case, one case of Covid in New Zealand at that point. and I, I got on the phone to my husband and I said, I'm experiencing a very high level of arousal and it's very, very unpleasant. Now my husband knows me very well. And he said, yeah, there's a lot of uncertainty. and I said, I know now. He didn't say to me, well, you're anxious and you just don't really know it.

2 (1h 56m 6s):
I, 'cause I wasn't anxious, I was feeling uncertain. And as you know, or maybe people are, are know that when there's a lot of uncertainty, there's also a lot of arousal because the brain is attempting to learn. And the neuromodulators that are important for learning new things happen to also cause a subjective sense of arousal. And some, they actually also modulate your autonomic Nervous System so your heart can beat faster or whatever. And our go-to explanation for what that is, is to experience that arousal as anxiety. But I was uncertain and remember that how your brain, the story it's telling itself, the category it's making is a plan for action.

2 (1h 56m 51s):
Well, what do you do in anxiety and fear? You freeze or you run away. What do you do in uncertainty? You forage for information, you tolerate the Discomfort and you forage for information, which is what I was doing when I called and said, what should we do? Should I meet her at the airport and turn around and come back? Or should we have a vacation? Like, I don't really know. And you know, what I ended up doing was foraging for information for another couple days and then made a Split second decision in the air when we were flying from one island to the other. and I just rerouted us and we went home. And then the borders closed like two days later. You know? But my point is that it, this is not just, you know, psychological mumbo-jumbo.

2 (1h 57m 40s):
You can train yourself to experience your heart pounding in your chest as determination when, when my daughter, this is all in how emotions are made, these examples, but they're true. I mean, my daughter, this is the, this book I wrote a couple years ago when my daughter was 12 years old, she was testing for a black belt in karate. She was five feet tall, not even, and she was testing against these like massively large adolescent boys, okay, who were like a foot taller than her. And her sensei, who was a 10th degree black belt, didn't say to her, don't be afraid.

2 (1h 58m 20s):
He said, get your butterflies flying in formation. and I was like, enraptured. I was like, oh my God, this guy is totally brilliant. That is the best, you know, meaning to give to arousal. That changes the meaning of it. What you do when you create an Emotion is you're giving meaning to those affective feelings, and you have more control than you might think in how you do that. You can do it by changing the physical state that gives rise to those feelings, but you can also change it by learning more how to make more Categories and how to make them more fluidly so that you do something different.

2 (1h 59m 9s):
And the, it's not that things will necessarily feel any more unpleasant or any less or or any more pleasant, it's that the feeling becomes a source of wisdom. It's a cue to do something different. This is a case where I absolutely believe that knowledge about how emotions and affect and states of the brain and body work, which is what you're beautifully describing for people today, is extremely useful in and of itself. and I think and I, it's a, frankly, it's a, it's a refreshing and welcome departure from a lot of the conversations that we normally have on this podcast where, you know, we talk a lot about protocols, we talk about tools, right?

2 (1h 59m 59s):
Things that people can do, ways they can implement the knowledge. And, and here the, this is certainly one of those cases as well, but it's a beautiful one and a very important one where the knowledge itself, just the knowledge of additional words for different states. I love the example of butter putting butterflies into formation because it, it inherent to that is that you're not trying to get rid of the butterflies. Quite the opposite. Yeah. You're deploying them in certain ways. Yeah. And there's an action step and a psychological step there, of course, that's required, but that it isn't, you know, view morning sunlight for an average of 10 minutes to set your circadian rhythm, which is something that I say over and over again, I'll go into the grave saying that they'll probably put a window over my grave, so sunlight can get in at this point, but, which would be fine with me.

2 (2h 0m 47s):
But in any case, knowledge is, power is something that we hear, but it's not always true. Often it's knowledge is power, but you need to do X, y, and Z in a certain order. But here, what you've provided, and you, you're continuing to provide is knowledge that people can use that real estate within their brain. I'm deliberately not giving it a name because it's, it's distributed real estate that allows them to take an unpleasant feeling and work with it, that it has more dimensionality than we probably realize. That's becoming clear to me that rarely, if ever, is there less dimensionality.

2 (2h 1m 29s):
You can always give it more dimensionality by just shifting your attention and you can practice this really. So, you know, like there's a story that I tell about when I, the brief moment when I tried to learn how to paint, you know? And so there's an object like a cup, and you have this three-dimensional object, and you wanna render it on a two-dimensional canvas. So you could just try to draw the cup. And then what you get is a pretty shitty looking, you know, cup. But what, what a realist painter will teach you to do is to take the cup and to break it apart into pieces of light. And then what you try to paint are the pieces of light. So you're transferring your first, what you're doing is you're taking this very low dimensional course object called a cup, and you're breaking it into tiny little pieces of light, which Is what the visual system Does, which is what the visual system does.

2 (2h 2m 22s):
And so what you're doing is you're categorizing it differently in order to emphasize the features that are more high dimensional, that are in there, right? They're in there in, in the brain. But you can, but what you're doing essentially is you're, you're having the brain, your brain is applying attention to basically focus more on those details. And then you transfer the details on to the two dimensional canvas. And what you get is a pretty decent looking three dimensional cup on a two dimensional canvas. Amazing. Un, unless you're me. And, and then it still looks shitty, you know? And so maybe I'll, I'll take it up again sometime in the future.

2 (2h 3m 5s):
But my point is that you can do that with your own sensory condition of your body. In Emotion. You can deliberately focus on what your heart is doing to the, to the best of your ability that you can sense it, right? Or you can deliberately focus on your breathing, or you could deliberately focus on what your muscles are, how they, how tense they feel. You can, you can change the dimensionality of your experience by the shifting of your attention. Love it. And forgive me for giving another example, but I think it's one that will resonate with both of us and hopefully with our listeners as well, which is the great Oliver Sacks neurologist and author talked about and wrote about, you know, he'd worked with these patients that were either had LockedIn syndrome or severe autism, or severe Tourettes or Parkinson's.

2 (2h 3m 54s):
And you know, most people would, even clinicians who specialize in those areas would look at those people and say that they're living in a diminished world. It's, it's, they lack capacities that other people have. And, and it's all about the a the absence of certain abilities. And, and then what he did eventually was incredible. He loved animals. So he would spend time thinking about what it would be like, for instance, to be a bat hanging in the corner of a room and experience the room, not through vision, but mainly through echolocation. And he would spend a lot of time thinking about that. He also did a lot of drugs at one point in his career and then stopped because they were very destructive drugs, not just psychedelics, but also methamphetamine.

2 (2h 4m 38s):
So yes, he has that, but he eventually changed his practice to trying to experience human Emotion, but first think about animal sensory experience. And he would do that for lots of different types of animals, octopuses and bats and all these different things. And then it allowed him, in his words, it allowed him to then interact with patients in a way where he could feel, maybe even empathize a little bit with how they experienced life. And then he would write books about it in a way, and here I'm borrowing someone else's words that storied these people into almost greater, larger than life characters. And now of course, he wasn't trying to detract from their suffering, but he was trying to give people an understanding of what that suffering was like through their actual experience.

2 (2h 5m 26s):
And he did it, in my opinion, and the opinion of many other people, a masterful job doing that. Yeah. Masterful job. And, and it, but it came through much in the same way that your art teacher said, you know, pay attention to the way the, the, the changes in light across the, the, the object as opposed to trying to draw, draw the object themselves. That when we, so the, the, the takeaway here that I, I think we're arriving at is that, that you've provided is that if we take a, if we add dimensionality to our description of, or experience of the sensory inputs, and there's a ton of it to reach to, and we maybe even come up with some new internal Labels or language-based Labels that we can experience the world in much richer and much more adaptive ways.

2 (2h 6m 11s):
Absolutely. and I, I love, I love your stories and I love this story in particular about Oliver Sachs because it resonates with my experience. When I was reading Ed Young's new book, oh, At first he wrote the we contain multitudes, which I think won of Pulitzer. And then what is the recent one, right? With the Animals? An Immense World. An immense world. And what I, what I was thinking was, you know, it's a, first of all, it's a masterful, masterful, masterful book. I, I wish I had written that book. I, I wrote him a fan letter. I was like, this is such an amazing book. It's an amazing Book. But because he helps you ex experience.

2 (2h 6m 53s):
So what, what I wanna say is this, that there are all these animals that have different sensory surfaces than we do, and they can detect signals in the world that are, that we, that are not relevant to us because we don't have sensory surfaces for them. And it reminds you, first of all, that what you experience as reality is really not in the world alone. And it's not in your head alone. It is in the transaction between the two. You know, your, the neurons in your brain, in in your Nervous, System are also part of the reality. And so reality is the transaction reality are the, are the features that are the transaction between signals in the world and signals in your brain and the parts of the world that some other animals experience that we will never experience.

2 (2h 7m 43s):
They're not really part of our reality because they don't interact with any of the anything that we have. But for those animals, it's part of their niche. It's part of their, you know, niche is just the word for the parts of the world that matter to you basically. and I was thinking that if people read this book, and you know, maybe it will help them have empathy for other people who don't have minds like theirs and who don't experience the world in the way that they do. Your description of what, what Oliver Sachs his, what his, his actions were and his goals. It did occur to me that this book by Ed Young would be a great tool for helping people to understand that the way that they experience the world, it might be different than how other people experience the world.

2 (2h 8m 33s):
And even a little bit of a window on that, it would be a good thing. So I'd like to ask you more about this word affect, and then I'd like to discuss how things that we do or don't do might be useful for putting us in broad Categories of affect so that we might experience particular arrays of emotions. So this is my attempt to understand affect in an effort to think about some actionable items. Absolutely. I love the word affect the way you described it as, or setting up a potential or a series of potentialities for different emotions to occur.

2 (2h 9m 15s):
You know, I make it a point to get sunlight in my eyes in the morning to try and wake up my brain and body because indeed it does that, broadly speaking, I make an effort to get good sleep at night because that makes everything better. Absolutely. And when I'm not sleeping well or enough, it makes everything worse. This is nonclinical non nuanced language, but I think most people when they hear affect and they think about the examples I just gave kind of understand like, yeah, like when a kid is tired or young kid, they get cranky when we're sleep deprive. I do get cranky, indeed. There are times when I'm sleep deprived and little things great on me.

2 (2h 9m 58s):
They're like, a splinter just feels super annoying and maybe even painful. But when I'm well rested, things are going better. It's not that bad. So tell, tell us more about affect, because I think it's a really important anchor point for us to understand emotions in ourselves and other people Neuroscientists. Think about the sensory systems for touch and proprioception, which we call somato Sensation as being in the service of motor mo skeletal motor movements. You really, the, our sense of touch and even vision actually also works this way.

2 (2h 10m 40s):
And he, and actually audition does too. These senses actually serve in the brain's ability to control the movements of the body. And the same thing is true for the regulating the systems of the body. So brains, one of their fundamental jobs are to coordinate and regulate the systems inside your body, your heart, your lungs, your gut, you know, all the moving parts and the information, the, the sensory signals that, that those organs and, and tissues and so on send back to the brain.

2 (2h 11m 26s):
As I said before, those sensory signals are important to the brain's ability to regulate the body, but we don't feel them directly. We usually experience them as affective feelings, these very simple physical sorts of feelings. And then we elaborate them in various ways. They, they really, when they get very intense that those are the moments when the brain creates a sto creates Emotion out of them. So the brain's regulation of the body, the predictive regulation of the body is the technical term is Allostasis. But when I'm explaining this to the public, I use a metaphor and, you know, all metaphors are wrong, but some metaphors are less wrong and useful.

2 (2h 12m 14s):
So the metaphor that I use is your brain is running a budget for your body, and it's not budgeting money, it's budgeting glucose and salt and oxygen and water and all the nutrients that you need to stay alive and well. And so you can think about withdrawals from that budget, like burning glucose or using up oxygen. You can think about deposits like sleeping and eating. You can think about, you know, savings. So when you're with a friend who you trust and you know, everything you do actually is just slightly less metabolically expensive, right?

2 (2h 12m 54s):
And you can also think about Taxes, like if you are stressed, socially stressed within two hours of eating a meal, that same meal will cost you a hun and the equivalent of 104 more calories in the inefficiency that you will metabolize it because of that stress, meaning you'll burn more energy, you'll be more inefficient in metabolizing the food. So it's as if you had eaten 104 more calories. Oh, so I had it exactly backwards. Yeah. And so over the course of a year, that's 11 pounds. So when we say that people are taxing on us, Yeah, we like, it's literally true.

2 (2h 13m 38s):
Their Their language works. Yeah. They're like, their Language works. So the way I describe it is that you can think about affect as a quick and dirty summary of the state of your body budget. If things are going reasonably well, then you'll feel okay, you might even feel pleasant. If you're running a deficit in your body budget, then you're gonna feel fatigued or, or distressed. And that doesn't mean something is necessarily wrong. Like, for example, when you exercise, you get to a certain point where you've reached your ventilatory load. Usually it's like, you know, 20 minutes in or 10 minutes in or whatever, depending on hard you're working and you start to feel unpleasant and fatigued.

2 (2h 14m 25s):
But that doesn't mean that something's wrong. That just means that you're working really hard and you have to push through it. And then, you know, when you're, you know, drink water and you know, you eat afterwards and replenish and then you're fine, right? In fact, you're better. It's, it's a, a way of building a better, stronger future. You, so affect is basically, you know, when, when things, when you're feeling really worked up, it probably means that something's uncertain somewhere. So I just think about these as like quick and dirty ways of thinking about your, your what your, what your affect means. And, and then oftentimes, as we've said before, Emotion regulation that is controlling Emotion really actually is not so much about changing the meaning of affect.

2 (2h 15m 9s):
It's changing the affect. And so it's useful to understand that affect is tied to the state of your body, or actually what it's tied to is your brain's beliefs about the state of your body. Your brain is modeling the state of the body. And that's interoception, that's the technical word. Interoception is not your awareness of your body, it's your brain's modeling of your body, what your brain believes to be true about the metabolic state of your body. And that's how I think about affect. That's how I think about my own affect. That's, and my daughter actually who, you know, was depressed for, so I should say depression is like a bankrupt body budget.

2 (2h 15m 54s):
Like, you just can't move you, you feel fatigued, so fatigued that you can't move and you're very distressed is like bankruptcy. And actually if you, I mean, depression is a metabolic illness. And if you look at the symptoms of depression, they really are about metabolic having metabolic deficits, basically. And it's interesting that one of the hallmark features of depression, subjectively speaking, is lack of positive anticipation about the future, which makes perfect sense from the perspective of a depleted grand body budget. Yes, exactly. You're, and you're basically think about the fact that Prediction error, right?

2 (2h 16m 39s):
So if you're feeling unpleasant, you're not gonna be anticipating pleasant things. And even if those things that are in the world could give you pleasure, you won't notice them because learning from Prediction error, things that you didn't predict is expensive. And if you don't have the resources, you're not gonna right. So it's, but anyways, my daughter came up with this after we had this very interesting thing that happened to us on another trip. We were in Sweden because I was giving a, a keynote at the Karolinska Institute, and we went, I took her to Sweden, and this is when she was recovering from depression. And like, you know, she is just one of the millions of young adults who, you know, adolescents and young adults who were experiencing depression.

2 (2h 17m 24s):
And we got to Sweden and she was very, very jet lagged. We both were, it was like one of these like, you know, we had to like, you know, planes, trains, and automobiles. Like it was just, you know, getting there. And she woke up the next morning and she, she looked horrible. She felt horrible. It actually seemed to me like she was about to enter another depressive episode. and I said to her, I basically got her outta bed. I fed her a meal, I gave her four ibuprofen and I put her back to sleep. And she got up five hours later and she was absolutely fine. Her mood was fine. Now, I'm not telling you that ibuprofen is the, an antidepressant that you should take if you're depressed, but what I'm telling you is that, you know, you said something Andrew that was so interesting at the beginning you said, am I fatigued?

2 (2h 18m 15s):
Does my body, do I have pain somewhere? Is my body hurt? You know, these are, well, right when basically what she was having was, she was fatigued and she was having what I would call, it's called, the technical word is visceral nociception, which means her stomach hurt her, you know, everything hurt. And sure, you know, her muscles probably hurt too, but it was really her inners really. She just was distressed. And the, the ibuprofen helped her get back to sleep. And then she slept and she got up and she was completely fine. And then we walked around Stockholm for the rest of the day talking about this experience, which for her was like flipping on a light switch, you know, how emotions are made.

2 (2h 18m 54s):
This book that I referred to, I wrote that book for her. I wrote that book for her, but also for me because it was a way of putting down on paper all the things that I wanted her to know that, and that I thought other people should know about their kids, you know? And maybe even their kids could read it. But what she did with that was she came up with a new concept called the Emotional Flu. And the Emotional Flu is when you're having a bad body budgeting day and you're just like, you didn't get enough sleep, maybe, or, you know, there's some stress at, at, at work or at school that you can't get rid of otherwise, you know, my husband likes to say, well, you know, other people's opinions of you are just electrical activity in somebody's head, which I love.

2 (2h 19m 44s):
Like, that's just another way of categorizing it. It's sort of like taking apart the, taking apart the cup into pieces of light, right? And so whatever, there are just these moments where you feel depleted. And you could use the, I mean the, we usually, we often use affect to as a, as a indicator of how the world is. You know, if I feel bad, something must be bad wrong in the world. But you have to resist that sometimes because sometimes there's nothing wrong in the world, it's just that you didn't get enough sleep or you know, you need to have a little bit more, you know, protein or maybe you haven't gone for a walk and you're stiff or whatever. You need to do some stretching. Are those, sorry to interrupt, but I think people are going to want to anchor to a few of these positive steps that they can take to re to, I don't wanna say replenish, but to shift affect in positive directions, sleep, movement, nutrition.

2 (2h 20m 36s):
Yes. And I've heard you say before that we are essentially amino acid foraging machines. Yes. So, yeah. I noticed you said protein, you didn't say you need a bagel, you said protein. We could go down that rabbit hole. Maybe. Maybe we do, maybe we don't. But I want to use this also just as a quick opportunity to say, as you're saying, all this one can immediately understand why alcohol and drugs of abuse are both so compelling. Yeah. Right. You're not feeling well. Yeah. So take a, you're feeling tired, take a stimulant that releases dopamine and epinephrine, but you're taxing your already taxed body budget. Yes. In a way that then puts you in a more depleted state later. Yes.

2 (2h 21m 16s):
Or alcohol, like yes, you feel lousy and alcohol never did this for me, but friends I have who are recovered alcoholics will tell me that it was like a magic elixir. It made them feel right. Yes. That's their language. Yes. But then of course there's a price to pay later because then it drops your baseline below where it was initially Absolutely 100, 110%. But I just also wanna say that, so is serotonin, like so are, so is, so are SSRIs maybe. And when I say maybe what I mean by that is if you really have a metabolic problem, like say something's wrong with your mitochondria or you're recovering from an illness and you know that, or, or there's just some metabolic problem in your body, that metabolic problem is real.

2 (2h 22m 2s):
If you start to feel unpleasant, you will, I mean, feel unpleasant, it will feel, your mood will be negative if you start taking ston, if you start taking SSRIs, which will leave more serotonin in the synapses of your neurons before it's re it's taken up again, that will juice the system. You will be able to spend, you'll be able to move. You'll feel like you have more energy for a while. But your Nervous System is, is a complex system. And so it's gonna make adjustments elsewhere to try to deal with that budgeting problem. So exactly what happens when you take drugs of abuse and what happens on the short term can happen for some people with SSRIs on the longer term, where at first it starts to work and then it stop stops working, and you start to gain weight and you know, and your, because your metabolism is slowing, because your brain is attempting to deal with that, with that budgeting problem.

2 (2h 23m 3s):
So it really matters what the, you know, what the source is. It could be that your brain believes you have a budgeting problem, but there really isn't one. It could be that there really is one, these things matter to how you treat it. One thing to just mention about SSRIs and I, unfortunately, for reasons of confidentiality, I can't cite the source on this, but let me just say that somebody who's highly informed in the, in the landscape of, of pharmaceutical treatments for psychiatric challenges has told me that there's an emerging theory among psychiatrists is kind of a collective emerging theory. That one of the reasons why nowadays you hear about so-called treatment-resistant depression, but you did not hear about so-called treatment-resistant depression prior to the advent of SSRIs, is that there's a growing body of thought in the psychiatric community.

2 (2h 23m 54s):
The SSRIs may over time, as you're pointing out, deplete the very Neural systems that subserve enhanced mood. So it's, it's different than a drug of abuse that gives you a very acute effect like methamphetamine or cocaine Absolutely. Or alcohol. But that over time you may actually be pulling the very Neural circuits and neurochemicals that would allow for positive affect deeper and deeper into the trenches. Yeah. So to speak. And so there's a growing number of people who simply don't respond to the drugs any longer. Right. Or other treatments. Right. So I wasn't trying to say the mechanism is the same. I was basically saying the theme is the same, and I'm agreeing with you. Yeah. What happens over the short term with drugs of abuse happens over the longer term with, for some people with SSRIs, because it hasn't been recognized yet that the, that at the basis depression is a metabolic problem.

2 (2h 24m 47s):
And when you have a metabolic problem like diabetes or obesity or like, or heart disease, it's not that that causes depression. It's that there's a common problem, which is that somewhere in this very complex system of your metabolism, there's there, there's a drag and it produces negative mood. And that's how you experience it. Sometimes it's good not to turn, it's productive not to turn that negative affect into an Emotion. Sometimes, you know, sometimes a cigar is just a cigar. Sometimes you just need to deal with the affective problem by dealing with the physical, your physical state.

2 (2h 25m 28s):
And that's the tricky bit is knowing when is affect telling you something is wrong with the world. And when is it telling you that there's something wrong with your physical state that you need to attend to? Well, I think everything, to me at least, starts with a good night's sleep on a consistent basis. Absolutely. And, and every psychiatric challenge, and indeed suicide itself is seems to be associated with and often preceded by challenges in sleeping. Oh, absolutely. Changes in, in absolutely. In circadian rhythm. So I think that's why, to me, sleep is the foundation of mental health and physical health. Yep. Absolutely. And so when I tell people, when they say, well, what can I do? I was like, well, if there's only, if there's only one thing that you could pick, I would say get, get a good night's sleep on a regular basis.

2 (2h 26m 12s):
If you could pick two more, I would say eat healthfully. Like stop eating pseudo food. Don't get me wrong. Like, I love french fries, I love french fries. They're like, that's god, God's most perfect food. I mean, really, but eat healthfully. Like eat real food and get exercise. And if you do those three things, I know I sound like a mother, and so feel free to roll your eyes at me. But as a neuroscientist, those are the, actually, before you start with all the, you know, mentalizing Jedi tricks, you could just start with this and that would actually take you pretty far. And, and, and that will resonate very well with our audience. The basics of sleep, exercise, food, sunlight, and social connection are the ones I was gonna say that we just anchor to.

2 (2h 26m 58s):
Those five are the ones that, that we just keep returning to over and over again. Yeah. Yeah. and I think people will say, oh, it's just simple motherly advice. But I would, I think that those five things, even just the one thing around sleep, yeah. There's some work that's required to get that done. So it's not as simple, the Categories are simple, but the work that's required to get great sleep as often as one can on a consistent basis, if you're raising kids, have a career for sure live in the world. There's a lot there. And so that's where I think there's, there's a, there's an elaboration of, of things and one needs to learn to be, be flexible, like when you're traveling, how do you do that when you know friends are visiting? How do you do that when weather's off and, and so on.

2 (2h 27m 40s):
The, the relationship piece is something I was just gonna, I was just gonna say, I'm so glad you mentioned that. I'm so glad You mentioned that. 'cause you said before, and, and this was another one of those moments, I listened to you, I've listened to as many of your podcasts as I possibly can, but I think it was the first or the second one with Lex Friedman where you said, you know, we are regulating each other's nervous systems. and I will never forget that. And you know, I imagine that you married your husband for a number of different reasons, but when people pair up with romantic partners, with friends, with coworkers, the ideal situation is one in which we are not taxed. Where maybe even people and just being around them or just knowing that they are in our lives provides a sort of deposit to Yeah, It's a savings.

2 (2h 28m 28s):
It provides a savings. It's A savings for sure. Yeah. I mean, and then I think that's a lot of what emotional resonance to put kind of pop language on it Yeah. Is, is all about Yeah. Who, who feels good to be around, who doesn't feel good to be around. Yeah. I would say the best thing for a human Nervous, System is another human. And the worst thing for a human Nervous System is also another human. And so you really wanna be around the people who make you the best, the best version of yourself that you could be. And that doesn't mean that you always get a savings. Like sometimes you're, sometimes you're taking care of that person and so you're, you're absorbing some of the, their burden. Right.

2 (2h 29m 7s):
And vice versa. But I would say the research on, you know, social isolation and loneliness and so on, shows us that, you know, well along with research on Synchrony, and there's just a whole bunch of research to, to suggest that we are the caretakers of each other's nervous systems. And it doesn't matter what your opinion is, like it doesn't, you know, it just, but we just, that's how we evolved as a species. And so you get to decide what kind of a person are you gonna be, you know, are you gonna be, are you gonna be a savings or are you gonna be a tax? And in general, it seems that people who decide that they're going to be a savings tend to, because people gravitate towards that and want more of that.

2 (2h 29m 52s):
Yeah. And hopefully would provide that also. I mean, I think the reciprocity piece here feels really, really strong. Well, That's a really interesting thing about, about the synchrony work, right? So there's work that if you research that, if you put people together who don't even know each other, but if they, if they like each other and they, they have a sense of trust, even after a couple of minutes, they start to synchronize their physical signals, their heart rate starts to synchronize, their movements start to synchronize their heart rate probably synchronizes. 'cause their breathing starts to synchronize. Right. And it's really interesting to see what you, what you typically see is that who is pacing and who is leading, like one person is the leader and then the other person is the pacer. and I got that language from when I learned hypnosis, by the way.

2 (2h 30m 34s):
And, but it switches back and forth like, who's the leader? Like in a, in a good, in a, in a what we say good, like in a, in an interaction that looks productive. It, it's switching all the time. Who is, who is pacing and who is leading. It's not that always one person is, is is in charge, so to speak. Physiologically speaking, We did a series recently on mental health with Paul Conti, who's a psychiatrist. And the, the word narcissism came up a few times because people have a lot of questions about that. And, you know, and he emphasized that narcissists are not confident. They, they operate from a place of, of a deficit of pleasure. It's never enough and an intense envy, although that's not how they present.

2 (2h 31m 14s):
And they're often usually not aware of it themselves. But it's what leads healthy people to feel as if the interactions with those people, narcissists often can be very compelling in the moment, but they feel very taxed afterwards. Yeah. And kind of confused by what happened. Yeah. And it sounds like it ties back to this lack of synchrony on the positive side of things. It's also clear from what you just said, that when people regulate each other's nervous systems in a way where people are making little deposits and providing savings for each other, or maybe things are just neutral, that those nervous systems are then in a position to like pay attention to other things too.

2 (2h 31m 57s):
Yeah. And, and, and not just try and work out the dynamics. Oh, for sure. Oh, and that's very true at work. So there's research showing that, especially in the creativity, you know, sector innovation, sector of the economy. The best predictor of performance on the job is the extent to which people feel, I mean, after you account for sleep and, and you know, watering and sleeping and feeding, right? Like the, that the best predictor is the amount of trust that you have in your team and in your managers. Because if the world is predictable, it could still be, things could be hard. Where even when things are unpredictable, you have people, you know, who have your back. And so basically what you're doing is you're, you're, they're making, you know, deposits or savings, they're causing savings in each other's body budgets.

2 (2h 32m 46s):
So they're, their resources can be spent on the harder things, which is, you know, failing and, you know, calling, having to pick yourself back up and try again, which is, you know, partly what you do when you're an innovator. So I think that there's also research to show that in your personal life when you do random acts of Kindness for people, or when you're kind in general, you derive also a body budgeting benefit from that. You know. So for a while I had a friend who we would meet each other for lunch once a month and, you know, we would take turns paying, I mean, we could both pay for ourselves, but we kinda got a double hit.

2 (2h 33m 28s):
You know, he paid for me one month and then I would pay for him one month. And then, you know, so we get the double hit of, you know, being kind to someone else and you know, and also they got the, you know, benefit of someone being kind to them. And I'll just say, I think Kindness is a, I don't know that we have so many conversations about that in our culture right now, but I think Kindness is very, very underrated and should be, you know, like when I'm, when my, when I feel like shit, I bake bread for my neighbor who's in his seventies, him and his wife.

2 (2h 34m 8s):
That's what I do when I, you know, when I'm not feeling good. And, you know, if I, I mean, after I've taken care of the physical, the possible physical causes, I, and then I feel great because he's always so, he's always so grateful. And, and then I felt like I made his day better. And then also he helps me in other ways, like with my garden and stuff. 'cause he's just like a master gardener. And so I feel like we have this relationship where we help each other and I know, it sounds really sappy, but, and even though all the research backs up, what I'm saying, I, it doesn't quite describe the feeling of when someone is just really happy because you just gave them a little surprise and they're, you know, like that's, that's, there's just some juice in that I think On some culture out there.

2 (2h 34m 58s):
There's a word for that. I'm sure there someone won will tell us. I'm sure there Is. I'm sure there is. Well, I have to say I've thoroughly enjoyed this conversation. Oh, me too. I I've been looking forward to it for a long time. And you've provided us with a really broad arc, but also a deep dive into not just how emotions are made, not just about affect, but as you mentioned earlier, you know, really how the Nervous System works and I, I'm certain in fact that our audience is taking this in and realizing that that knowledge is incredibly powerful. The, the addition of nuance both to language and to sort of self-reflection states as extremely valuable.

2 (2h 35m 45s):
Oftentimes when one gets into a conversation that has some level of reductionism and you get into nomenclature and things like that, it can really pull away from the, the real life experience of something. But this is exactly the opposite. What you've done for us today is you've provided such a rich array of information that adds written richness and depth to the real life experience. And, and that is really invaluable. So, on behalf of myself and all the listeners and the people watching this, I wanna say thank you for today's discussion. Thank you for the books you've written, which we've provided links to in the show Note captions, thanks for showing up on Social Media despite the, the, the, the challenges that exist there.

2 (2h 36m 28s):
Sometimes you always handle yourself so well there. And we will refer people to your excellent Social Media accounts as well. And, and just for all the work that you're doing and that your laboratory, and you're now director of various things and related to AI and more, I, and we'll talk about this hopefully in future episodes, but just a really enormous thank you. Thank you for joining me for today's discussion about the psychology and neuroscience of emotions with Dr. Lisa Feldman Barrett. If you're learning from and or enjoying this podcast, please subscribe to our YouTube channel. That's a terrific zero cost way to support us In addition, please subscribe to the podcast on both Spotify and Apple and on both Spotify and Apple.

2 (2h 37m 9s):
You can leave us up to a five star review. Please check out the sponsors mentioned at the beginning and throughout today's episode. That's the best way to support this podcast. If you have questions or comments about the podcast or topics or guests that you'd like me to consider for the Huberman Lab podcast, please put those in the comment section on YouTube. I do read all the comments,

Momentous (2h 37m 28s):
not on today's episode, but on many previous episodes of the Huberman Lab podcast, we discuss supplements. While supplements aren't necessary for everybody, many people derive tremendous benefit from them for things like improving sleep, for hormone support and for focus. If you'd like to see the supplements discussed on the Huberman Lab podcast, you can go to live Momentous spelled O u s. So live Momentous dot com slash Huberman.

2 (2h 37m 49s):
If you're not already following me on Social Media, I am Huberman Lab on all platforms. So that's Instagram, Twitter, now called X, Facebook, LinkedIn, and Threads. And at all those places I discuss science and science related tools, some of which overlap with the content of the Huberman Lab podcast, but much of which is distinct from the content covered on the Huberman Lab podcast. So again, it's Huberman Lab on all Social Media platforms. And if you haven't already subscribed to our zero cost Neural Network Newsletter, the Neural Network Newsletter is a monthly Newsletter that includes podcast Summaries as well as toolkits in the form of protocol. So these are short PDFs that list out the specific things that one could do in order to, for example, improve sleep, improve learning, regulate dopamine.

2 (2h 38m 31s):
We have toolkits and protocols that relate to fitness from our fitness episodes and much, much more. To sign up, simply go to Huberman Lab dot com, click on the Newsletter tab at the top of the site and then enter your email and click subscribe. I wanna point out that we do not share your email with anybody. And again, the Newsletter is completely zero cost. Thank you once again for joining me for today's discussion with Dr. Lisa Feldman Barrett. And last but certainly not least, thank you for your interest in science.