0 (0s):
Welcome to the Huberman Lab podcast where we discuss science and science-based tools for everyday life. I'm Andrew Huberman and I'm a professor of neurobiology and ophthalmology at Stanford School of Medicine. Today my guest is Dr. Kyle Gillette. Dr. Kyle Gillette is a dual board certified physician in family medicine and obesity medicine and expert in hormone optimization. He is an MD that is a medical doctor and he treats patients with a variety of backgrounds, ages, and goals. Today we discuss male hormone optimization. We discuss behavioral tools, nutrition based tools, supplement based tools, prescription drug based tools, and their interactions in determining overall levels of testosterone, free testosterone, dihydro, testosterone, estrogen, growth hormone, thyroid hormone, and many other hormones that impact mood, libido, wellbeing, strength, cognition, and various psychological factors.

0 (1m 1s):
We've covered hormone optimization in both men and women in previous episodes of the Huberman Lab podcast, but today's discussion is different. Dr. Kyle Gillette offers very specific recommendations for people with different goals and of different ages, and we get deep into the weeds of, for instance, how does one know whether or not their testosterone is optimized or not? How often to test for specific hormones such as testosterone and other hormones and really how to gauge how good one should feel. This is something that's often overlooked in discussions about hormone optimization or health optimization of any kind for that matter. For instance, people will talk about reduced libido and discuss whether or not testosterone levels are to blame, but how does one calibrate their libido in the first place?

0 (1m 48s):
That is how does one know whether or not their libido is normal, too low or too high? We also discuss, for instance, whether or not hormone optimization should be pursued continually throughout the year. For instance, whether or not you should cycle on and off supplements and or prescription drugs geared towards hormone optimization, and we discuss the behavioral foundations of optimal hormone function. These are things that every male should be doing and various things they should actively avoid if their goal is to have healthy hormones and to quote unquote optimize their levels of every hormone from growth hormone to testosterone at any stage of life. And while today's discussion is about male hormone optimization, I want to emphasize that we discuss all the various ages for male hormone optimization.

0 (2m 33s):
So for those of you that are parents, for those of you that are young, those of you that are middle-aged or old or teenagers, we explore adolescent puberty, teen and late teens, early adulthood, adulthood, and into the late geriatric ages. So regardless of your age and whether or not you are male or female, today's episode ought to be of interest to you. I should also point out that we will soon also be hosting an expert guest on female hormone optimization. One thing that I'm certain people of all ages and biological sex will enjoy about today's conversation is that we also get into descriptions of how psychology and life events impact hormones and how hormones impact our psychology and the way that we show up to various life events.

0 (3m 16s):
So today is really a broad overview that goes all the way down to fine details about male hormone optimization, and I'm certain that by the end of today's episode, you'll have an immense amount of new information about how this endocrine that is hormone system in your body works and how it interacts with your brain and other tissues and many, many actionable tools that you can pursue regardless of stage of life. Before we begin, I'd like to emphasize that this podcast is separate from my teaching and research roles at Stanford. It is however, part of my desire and effort to bring zero cost to consumer information about science and science related tools to the general public. In keeping with that theme, I'd like to thank the sponsors of today's podcast.

Thesis (3m 56s):
Our first sponsor is thesis. Thesis makes Custom neutropics, and as I've said many times before on this podcast, I am not a fan of the word neutropics because it means smart drugs and frankly, there are no specific neural circuits in the brain or body for being quote unquote. Smart thesis understands this, and they've developed custom neutropics that are designed to bring your brain and body into the state that's ideal for what you need to accomplish. They use the highest quality ingredients, things like phosphide, sine Alpha gpc, many ingredients that I've talked about before on this podcast and that I happen to use myself. I've been using thesis for over a year now, and I can confidently say that their neutropics have been a game changer for me. I like their neutropic for clarity. I use that before cognitive work often, and I like their neutropic for energy, and I often use that before workouts, in particular workouts that are especially intense. To get your own personalized neutropic starter kit, go online to take thesis.com/huberman. Take their three minute quiz and thesis will send you four different formulas to try in your first month. Again, that's take thesis.com/huberman and use the code huberman at checkout to get 10% off your first box.

ROKA (5m 4s):
Today's episode is also brought to us by Roka. Roka makes eyeglasses and sunglasses that are the absolute highest quality. The company was founded by two all-American swimmers from Stanford and everything about Roka, eyeglasses and sunglasses were designed with performance in mind. I've spent a lifetime working on the biology, the visual system, and I can tell you that your visual system has to contend with an enormous number of challenges in order for you to see clearly. For instance, when you move from a sunny area to a shady area and back again, whether or not you're looking at something up close or often to the distance, Roka understands the biology, the visual system, and has designed their eyeglasses and sunglasses accordingly so that you always see with perfect clarity. Roka, eyeglasses and sunglasses were initially designed for activities such as running and cycling, and indeed they are very lightweight. Most of the time, I can't even remember that they're on my face. They're so lightweight. But the important thing to know about Roca eyeglasses and sunglasses is that while they can be used during sports activities, they also have a terrific aesthetic and they can be used just as well for wearing to work or out to dinner, et cetera. If you'd like to try roka eyeglasses and sunglasses, you can go to Roka, that's rka.com and enter the code huberman to save 20% off on your first order. Again, that's roka R o k a.com and enter the code huberman at checkout.

Helix (6m 17s):
Today's episode is also brought to us by Helix. Sleep Helix makes mattresses and pillows that are of the absolute highest quality. I started sleeping on a Helix mattress well over a year ago, and it's been the best sleep that I've ever had. One of the things that makes Helix mattresses so unique is that they match the design of the mattress to your unique sleep needs. So for instance, if you go onto their website, you can take a brief quiz. It's only takes about two or three minutes, and you'll answer questions like, do you tend to run hot or cold throughout the night? Or whether or not you sleep on your back, your side of your stomach, or maybe you don't know. Regardless, they will match you to the custom mattress that's ideal for your sleep needs. For me, that was the dusk D u SK mattress, which for me was not too firm, not too soft, and was ideal for my sleep patterns. You'll take the quiz and you'll find out what mattress is ideal for your sleep patterns. So if you're interested in upgrading your mattress, go to helix sleep.com/huberman, take their brief sleep quiz and they'll match you to a customized mattress and you'll get up to $200 off any mattress order and two free pillows. They have a 10 year warranty and you get to try out the mattress for a hundred nights risk free. Again, if you're interested, you can go to heli sleep.com/huberman for up to $200 off and two free pillows.

0 (7m 23s):
The huberman Lab podcast is now partnered with momentous supplements. To find the supplements we discuss on the Huberman Lab podcast, you can go to live momentus spelled O U S live momentus.com/huberman. And I should just mention that the library of those supplements is constantly expanding. Again, that's live momentous.com/huberman. And now for my discussion with Dr. Kyle Gillette, Dr. Gillette, great to have you back.

2 (7m 46s):
Great to be back. Thank you.

0 (7m 49s):
I'd like to begin with a question about one of the most mysterious and important phases of life, which is puberty. I've long wondered whether or not how quickly somebody goes into puberty, so at what age and how long puberty takes. So how brief or protracted that puberty is for them to acquire the so-called secondary sexual characteristics, things like hair growth on the face for males or changes in bone and muscle density and growth, et cetera. You know, when I was in middle school and high school, I noticed that some people transitioned into all that very fast and some people took a long time to acquire those characteristics.

0 (8m 30s):
Can we learn anything about ourselves, our hormones, and maybe even how long we're going to live based on the time in which we enter puberty and how long it takes us to progress through puberty? And I guess that also raises the question, does puberty ever truly end?

2 (8m 47s):
There are many takeaways from puberty, some of the actionable items from it is yes, it can and does affect your adult height and also stature and also body composition. So puberty is a time, and if you're, if we're talking specifically about males, think of it as a a time where if you have obesity as a child, you could potentially use that time to change your lifestyle and habits and reset things. And it is a bit easier. It's almost like a, a free injection of testosterone and metabolism and drive and effort into your life.

2 (9m 28s):
There is a wide variation in how quickly puberty goes through. So there's stages called tanner stages, which we don't necessarily need to get into, but if you enter puberty very early, then it can decrease your adult height or stature.

0 (9m 45s):
So for a given male that enters puberty at 13 versus a male that enters puberty at 15, can we say that the guy that entered puberty at 13 is going to be shorter than the guy that entered puberty at 15 or it's not quite that straightforward

2 (10m 2s):
If they are identical twins and the individual who entered puberty at age 13 also finished puberty when all the way through the tanner stages. And if you do a bone scan, which I believe is usually done on the left wrist and it says yes, your growth plates are mostly closed, you're not gonna grow more than a couple inches of height after that.

0 (10m 20s):
Okay. Just a related question. When I was growing up, it was thought or at least people would say that resistance training in particular lifting heavy weights could stunt one's growth. Is that true or false?

2 (10m 37s):
It is false When you're talking about just lifting heavy weights, dirty bulking certainly has the potential to stunt one's growth for, for two main mechanisms.

0 (10m 46s):
Could you define dirty bulking?

2 (10m 48s):
So dirty bulking is eating an excess of calories, not just to acquire lean metabolically active body mass or get stronger, but purposely acquiring body fat.

0 (11m 3s):
So purposely acquiring muscle and fat by overeating. Yes. And lifting weights can stunt one's growth. Do I have that correct? Correct.

2 (11m 13s):
So it does two things. If you're doing it as a very young child, it can, that fat can pro can become leptin resistant and it can produce more leptin and that leptin can activate the hypothalamus, which activates the pituitary, which releases gonadotropins, which basically just increased testosterone and estrogen earlier than it otherwise would have. It's the same mechanism behind why childhood obesity causes early puberty.

0 (11m 39s):
Interesting. I do remember a paper published in Science magazine. I believe it was focused mainly on females, but showing that when enough body fat accumulates the hormone leptin is secreted and that triggers the onset of puberty. Correct. Given the increase in childhood obesity that we're observing now, are we seeing an earlier onset of puberty in males and females?

2 (12m 2s):
Yes, in both males and females. Not to get too technical, but there's a G-protein coupled receptor on the hypothalamus and leptin directly binds it. So it does appear directly causatory and not just correlation.

0 (12m 15s):
Okay. So, and if I understand correctly, what you're saying is for a young guy, let's say 1314, who wants to really bulk up and deliberately, deliberately, excuse me, overeats and is doing their squats and deadlifts and bench presses and really trying to get big, they will get big, but only in the lateral dimension they are, they're effectively limiting their total height and it can shut down the long bone growth of of their limbs. Is that correct?

2 (12m 42s):
Correct. The, the growth of the long bones is mostly related to the estrodiol alpha receptor. So basically one of the receptors for estrogen, which can be secondary to early puberty and also is related to body fat because you have that conversion of testosterone to estrogen.

0 (13m 0s):
So can we assume that if a young male wants to get into resistance training, that body weight exercises are probably okay and maybe even some weight training kettlebells, et cetera, but that they should avoid doing so-called dirty bulking, trying to deliberately gain weight up until what age? Until puberty is over.

2 (13m 23s):
I would say an individual should limit the amount of body, abnormal body fat accumulation or dirty bulking indefinitely throughout their entire life.

0 (13m 33s):
So again, if I understand correctly, that recommendation to avoid deliberate weight gain or rapid weight gain is not just to allow an individual to reach their maximum height, but also to avoid laying down a lot of body fat cells. Correct?

2 (13m 50s):
Correct. The balance between that is when you are going through puberty, you are able to add a lot of lean body mass, not just muscle mass but bone mass and other mass as well.

0 (14m 1s):
I started lifting weights when I was 16 and I confessed. I trained pretty heavy at times. I don't know whether or not I would've been taller than I am now, but when I started that training I had already reached what was at least close to my predicted height. I can't say that I deliberately waited until I had grown. It just so happened that I stumbled into the weight room and found that I liked it at age 16, at which point I was already the height that I am now. So in any case, what I'm hearing is that laying down a lot of excess bad body fat is not a good idea. What if somebody grows up chubby or fat for whatever reason, reasons related to the eating patterns in their family, maybe even some genetic reasons.

0 (14m 44s):
Is it safe and or wise for a young person? So let's say somebody who's around the age of puberty or even younger or in their late teens to be dieting and actively trying to lose body fat, is that safe

2 (14m 58s):
Under the supervision of a physician? It is certainly safe to change your body composition. In pediatric obesity medicine, you're often talking about a recomposition or a renormalization of the growth curve compared to Pierce.

0 (15m 13s):
Great, thank you. So as you may have sensed, we started chronologically with puberty and I know that there's another puberty that even precedes the puberty that we're all familiar with. Maybe if you wanna just briefly mention that, cuz I was talking with you about this before we started the puberty that I'm most familiar with, and I think most people are most familiar with the acquisition of deepening of the voice, growth of muscle and bone, body hair, acquisition of libido and things like that. That's actually the second puberty that we all go through. Maybe just mention for us and educate us on the first puberty. I think most people will be hearing this for the very first time.

2 (15m 51s):
The first puberty of everyone's life is the first three months of their life. You may notice that your baby has more acne the first three months and that they also have in general, just more changes related to androgens and estrogens, perhaps oilier skin, even more gene urinary, like genital growth during the first three months. And this is mostly due to D H E A, which is an adrenal hormone. The second puberty or the puberty that most people know of actually starts that same way as well. It's called achy and, and it's when the adrenals kick in, I guess for the second time,

0 (16m 29s):
Is there a standard age or age range in which the testicles descend in males

2 (16m 35s):
Usually before birth. It is not uncommon to have one or even two undescended testes, but there is a risk of testicular cancer, especially if they're not fixed early and also heat damage to the testy.

0 (16m 49s):
Well thank you for that coverage of the two puberties. So early in life, I imagine some of our listeners probably still in one or the, well, one or the other puberty, the ones that are in the first puberty obviously aren't aware that they're listening to this podcast, but maybe it'll be embedded in their subconscious, but some listeners probably are still in puberty. But I think everyone can remember back to their puberty and roughly when they first entered puberty and how quickly they aggregated the secondary sex characteristics. I'd like to turn now to a general question about what all males ought to do in order to optimize their hormones. So if you could just list off the things that all males should do on a daily basis, weekly basis.

0 (17m 29s):
I mean, should guys in their teens and twenties be getting their blood work done? Should they be taking supplements? We already talked about weight training. What should they be doing? What should they avoid doing? If the goal is to have a long arc of healthy hormone optimization throughout the lifespan,

2 (17m 45s):
There's many things that you should do. An analogy that I often make is when there's a brand new car that comes off the assembly line, you do a full scope of diagnostic workup, hook it up to the computer, and I think we should do the same thing with humans as well. Deer in puberty, you know, obviously you're a functioning human, but I would say there's still development and I think that the, the human always develops. I don't think development ever ends, but you wanna monitor that progress across a person's lifespan.

0 (18m 17s):
So for, oh, sorry. So for blood work, I mean, what would be the earliest, let me put it this way. If blood work didn't cost anything and everyone could get it, when would you want to see everybody get their blood work done for the first time

2 (18m 33s):
Of, obviously individuals under the age of 18 should talk with their parents about this. And as long as that the parents and the child kind of agree and the parents are on board with this as well, you can start getting blood work. Often a child will come in with complaints of either precocious puberty or delayed puberty, and this individual might be nine or this individual might be 15 for a healthy child when they're going through kind of their later tanner stages, which is four and five. So they've developed several secondary sexual characteristics. They might have hair growth or starting to notice more beard growth. That's a good time to do it.

2 (19m 14s):
If you're concerned with stature or height or if you're not tracking along where most members of your family have, not just their height and stature, but also the timing of their puberty, then that's time to get laps.

0 (19m 28s):
Great. So if I could travel back in time, I would've gotten my blood work done for hormones and lipids and everything else. Yeah. At 18 I unfortunately didn't know where and how to get that and I didn't have any pressing clinical issues. And so I think the first time that I got my blood work done, I was in my late twenties, maybe even my early thirties, and I'm still dying to know what my blood work was when for instance, I was 17 and I felt a certain way and, and I, and I confessed that in many dimensions. I actually feel better now at, I'll be 47, soon at 47 than I did in my teens and twenties. And I think it was more on the psychological side. I think that, but in terms of just understanding why we felt great or why we felt or feel terrible or not so great, I think blood work is extremely informative.

0 (20m 18s):
What do you think are the key things to look for in blood work? I mean, ev testosterone is always the topic that comes up in the context of male hormone optimization, but certainly there are a lot of other hormones that are important as well.

2 (20m 28s):
And with testosterone, you want to get either testosterone in an S H B G or a free testosterone.

0 (20m 34s):
Could you define S H B G for our listeners

2 (20m 36s):
Please? It is sex hormone binding globulin. It is the protein that binds up all androgens and estrogen of the body. So the stronger the androgen, the stronger it binds during puberty. Strong androgens, especially D H T, which is the strongest bioidentical androgen has a huge role, a prominent role in secondary sexual characteristics. And if your S H B G is very high, then your D H T can run higher because it's not metabolized, but there's not quite as much free D H D. So you want to balance between a high enough free D HT and a high enough total D H

0 (21m 14s):
D. And obviously these blood tests are going to have to be read and interpreted by a qualified physician. Most people aren't going to be in a position to evaluate them properly or at least not with the full depth that they could if they had a, an MD like yourself looking at them. Okay. So everyone should get blood work as early as possible depending on their budget and and availability. What should everybody do in terms of monitoring those markers? So assuming that there's no major intervention, how often do you recommend that people get their blood work done?

2 (21m 46s):
Let's say we, let's take an individual who just turned 18, they just got their first set of blood work, they'll probably find something in it that they may want to optimize using shared decision making with their physician. Usually a good follow-up is about six months.

0 (21m 60s):
Okay. So twice a year getting blood work done, then having a physician evaluate it? That sounds reasonable to me. And for those that didn't initiate this at 18 such as myself, it's the best time to start then would be as soon as possible. Yeah.

2 (22m 13s):
Right.

0 (22m 15s):
In terms of the other things that all males should do, meaning all males of all ages, puberty and beyond should do what? What are some of those things? So on a daily basis, maybe you could just take us through the arc of a day and and push out some of the protocols that you use or the things that you like to see your male patients use in order to try and optimize their hormone status.

2 (22m 38s):
I'll briefly touch on some of the lifestyle pillars to start. Diet and exercise are the first two in puberty, sleep is particularly important of course, but with diet and exercise throughout a lifespan, you want to not exclude things that are helping you. For example, dairy and puberty. If you're consuming dairy and then all of a sudden you cut out all dairy, dairy can help increase IGF one and free IGF

0 (23m 5s):
One. And what, and just again for our audience, maybe you just mention what ig, what having enough IGF one can do for us that's beneficial is

2 (23m 12s):
It helps you grow, it helps with genital development, secondary sexual characteristics and long bone growth, skin growth, hair growth, a host of

0 (23m 22s):
Things. So getting an array of nutrients that include dairy. What other sorts of nutrients are important during development?

2 (23m 31s):
You wanna have adequate vitamin D. Vitamin D helps with testosterone production. It helps again with bone mineralization and stature after an age of about 25 and there's not a strict cutoff, but up to about a, a age of 25 optimizing your growth hormone. And IGF one helps with bone density and bone growth. So from the dietary standpoint, you want to have enough free estrogen, not too much when you're growing, but you want to help basically stockpile bone to prevent a risk of osteoporosis or thin bones fractures when you're older.

0 (24m 7s):
Well, someone who broke his left foot five times while in high school, I can say, you know, whatever young people can do to optimize their bone density would be great. That problem seems to have resolved itself over time. But I don't know. Back then I was, I did a short run as a vegetarian, but I've always been an omnivore. I realize that some of this relates to ethics and food allergies and things of that sort, but would you say that on balance that most people would benefit from eating a combination of, you know, quality proteins from animal sources and non-animal sources, fruits, vegetables, and starches. I mean, what do you think, for instance about people following a pure carnivore or a very pure vegan diet in their twenties and thirties,

2 (24m 52s):
In their late twenties? It might be a reasonable option in early twenties and certainly teens, it is a horrible idea because it is likely to significantly decrease your free androgens. So you will have less testosterone acting on receptors through the body.

0 (25m 7s):
Are there any other micronutrients or macronutrients that people in their twenties and thirties should emphasize?

2 (25m 14s):
We haven't really touched on fatty acids or fiber too much fiber is going to be paramount in kind of like setting your set point of your gut microbiome the rest of your life. There is prebiotic fiber, which you can think of as fish food for your good gut microbiomes. Your gut microbiomes kind of like an aquarium or a fish

0 (25m 33s):
Tank? No, I'm just thinking about goldfish swimming around and that the goldfish eating people don't eat goldfish people. Yep, thank you. Live or dead.

2 (25m 41s):
Yeah, but any fiber or food that you're putting in your gut, it's either going to, it's going to skew your gut microbiome towards something that is more beneficial or or more detrimental.

0 (25m 52s):
And would you say that the prebiotic fiber and the getting essential fatty acids that would be important to do throughout the lifespan or just for the people in their twenties and

2 (26m 2s):
Thirties throughout the lifespan? Particularly important in the teenage twenties, thirties because it helps with brain development. You're certainly more of an expert than me when it comes to brain development, but it does continue to de develop through really throughout the lifespan, but certainly through the twenties and thirties as well.

0 (26m 20s):
What about taking a multivitamin while you're growing up? So many people do that. Is it necessary, is it useful? And if it's not necessary, is it safe to do anyway?

2 (26m 32s):
It's generally safe to do anyway. I do not think everybody needs a multivitamin. The more exclusionary your diet is, for example, if you have celiac disease or if you're planning on fertility soon, then perhaps it's more reasonable to take a multivitamin.

0 (26m 48s):
In a previous discussion of ours, I asked you about caloric restriction and testosterone and if I recall correctly, the idea was that if somebody is overweight, they have a excess fat adipose tissue, then getting rid of some of that adipose tissue by through caloric restriction and exercise provided it's done not too fast in a healthy way is going to be beneficial for testosterone in the long run. But that for individuals who are not carrying an excess of body fat, caloric restriction is actually going to lower testosterone. First of all, do I have that correct? And second, are there any addendums to that that you'd like to, to give us now?

2 (27m 26s):
That's correct. If you look at an individual in a caloric deficit, several changes will happen. One is that they'll have less building blocks for hormones. Another is that they will be in a catabolic state more often. So that balance of anabolism and cat metabolism will be different. They'll likely have less signaling from growth hormone and IGF one and they'll also have the high S H B G that we defined earlier as the binding protein. So their are free androgens and free estrogens will go down. Got

0 (27m 58s):
It. Okay. So we touched on sleep being critical. I would say throughout the lifespan, try and get enough quality sleep at least 80% of the nights of your life. And the other 20% are just what happens when there's noise outside or you're stressed, it just, you have an exam or you're having a great time for whatever reason. There are a lot of good, good reasons to lose some sleep now and again. Yeah, as well. But so we have sleep, we've got nutrition and we touched on that. We'll get back into supplementation now. What are some of the other pillars of creating a, the proper environment for hormone optimization?

2 (28m 33s):
Stress is probably the next one. During both puberty but also the twenties and thirties, individuals are figuring out how they want to cope with stress and also figuring out what they want to choose to put their effort into. So if someone is overstressed, then they can have it, can put all the other lifestyle pillars and then they stop dieting, well they stop exercising and everything else can go skew. There is also some degree of social component to this, so perhaps I need to add a seventh pillar of social. You know, during your twenties and thirties you may be forming a family as well.

2 (29m 15s):
Perhaps you have children and the health of the family unit is going to be vitally important. Not only, not necessarily directly for hormone optimization, but it's gonna throw everything else off if it's off.

0 (29m 29s):
And for people that are not ha starting their own families in their twenties and thirties, can that social connection be extended to friendships and work relationships as well?

2 (29m 38s):
Absolutely. In fact, if someone's not starting a family, it, it is just as concerning. But for other reasons, each individual is gonna have their close group of family and friends. And if someone does not have one of those connections, that's when things can potentially get bad. Not just for them individually, but also society.

0 (29m 57s):
So when you say stress, you mean learn to manage your stress. What does that look like? I mean, when if a patient you know has high blood pressure, even if they don't, you just sense that they're stressed, they've a lot of pressured speech, or they're not feeling well or communicating that they're not doing well. What are some of the things that you recommend in order to try and ameliorate that stress?

2 (30m 16s):
There's different mindfulness or relaxation techniques going outside can often help with this as well. Dietary changes and exercise can help with this too. Some people like prayer or meditation and a lot of people like counseling or therapy or even just talking openly with a family member or a friend.

0 (30m 37s):
What would be some of the other pillars for hormone optimization here? I feel like we're not just talking about people in their twenties and thirties, but again, we're, you know, wrapping our arms around basically puberty onward. I mean, I, I mean, gosh, I, looking back, I, I started meditating pretty early. I started weight training and running early. I gave some thought to my diet in high school, but really was in college that I started thinking more about what I was ingesting and why and trying to do better there. But people are coming to the table at different stages of life and trying to optimize for hormones. So, you know, so what, what would the be some of the additional things that everybody should do?

2 (31m 13s):
Everyone should get outside and find a movement past time to last a lifetime. You're gonna get sunlight, you're gonna get some degree of heat and cold exposure and you're also just gonna move more. Being in an artificial environment where there's artificial lights, artificial air conditioning is going to have many effects on your body. So that's vital. Another one is finding what your purpose is in life. So I call this spirit, but it's really just the self-actualization component of Maslow's hierarchy of needs, which is basically your physical needs, your mental needs, and then your purpose in life. What you really like to do.

0 (31m 52s):
Yeah, picking some goal or target. And I always say that you don't have to stick to the same goal over time. Certainly I haven't, although I got started early in the science game and I'm still in it. The idea is not to pick the end goal is to pick a goal and then once you reach that goal to assess and then pick another goal and so on. I think sometimes when people hear about picking a purpose, they're like, oh my goodness, I have to define sort of like naming oneself. Yeah. That you, you, you actually can change your, your, your goals and purpose over time. This is terrific. Would you suggest that people actively use or avoid supplementation prior to doing all these other things? I'm somebody that likes to throw the kitchen sink at things, but I also like to do things pretty systematically.

0 (32m 34s):
So I always say behaviors first, then nutrition, then supplementation and then maybe and if and only if there's a real need and of course working with a doctor, prescription drugs. But you know, there are probably people in their twenties or thirties, maybe even in their fifties that aren't feeling great and they want to do something in order to be able to train more and or to feel more confident to seek out social connection. They try and go go about the whole business from the other, from the other side as well. And what are your thoughts on that?

2 (33m 3s):
I see supplements in medications as very similar. One's prescribed and one's not. In general, medications have more side effects or potentially stronger therapeutic with more efficacy, but they're just tools to reach an end goal. So depending on the goal, if there's an individual that's an athlete, then certainly they should consider supplementation. Or if someone desires optimal or very, a very high level of cognitive performance, they should also consider supplementation. At the same time. Food is medicine and a lot of the benefits you can get in supplements, you can get in food as well.

0 (33m 38s):
Yes, it depends on how much time and energy you're willing to spend. And also finances. You know, I know that when I was in college I could afford just a few supplements and they were basically whey protein and some fish oil. I was fortunate that I was pointing in the direction of those things and some creatine I couldn't afford much else. Over time. Of course I could afford more, but it really does often depend on, on finances before we get into some specific recommendations to optimize testosterone, estrogen, thyroid growth hormone, et cetera. I wanna ask you a question I've been wondering about for a long time. You know, so often in the discussion about male hormone optimization, people will say, well, you know, if your libido is suffering, you know, you might want to be concerned about testosterone or even estrogen, right?

0 (34m 22s):
Cause we know that estrogen can impact libido as well. Sometimes having estrogen too low is detrimental for libido. Or people will say, you're not recovering from workouts or you're just, or you're feeling kind of depressed. The problem is it's all subjective. So how does one know whether or not they're recovery from workouts? Their energy, their confidence, their libido is within a healthy range? I mean, obviously for people in a relationship, they can know whether or not their libido matches the sort of cadence of, of the relationship in their partner. But how should people think about this and maybe even start to talk about it? Because one of the big differences I think, between males and females is that because females have a monthly cycle, they are familiar with the changes that occur in their hormones over time.

0 (35m 7s):
Because every 28 days, those hormones are changing dramatically in ways that impact their physiology and psychology. But for males, I feel like they're sort of a, a, a dearth of language to get into the more subtle aspects of this. It also has to do with privacy issues and people feeling like they don't want to overshare too much, not knowing what's appropriate to share. But when you talk to a patient who's in their thirties or maybe even their seventies or sixties, doesn't matter, a male patient, what are you listening for? And you know, I know you're not a a psychiatrist, but you know, what are your ears tuned to in order to try and figure out whether or not this person could really use some help with hormone optimization or whether or not something else or maybe they're just doing great and they don't realize it because they're placing demands on themselves that are excessive.

2 (35m 50s):
You wanna, you wanna use a lot of open-ended questions. This process is called motivational interviewing and your goal is to listen to the patient and not plant an idea in their mind that they can follow. Because everybody is going to have a different goal. Some people are better at reading their biofeedback or telling how they feel on a daily basis. There is screening questionnaires designed, for example, an ADAM questionnaire to look at men's men's health and hormone related health.

0 (36m 23s):
It's called an ADAM questionnaire.

2 (36m 24s):
Adam questionnaire,

0 (36m 25s):
A D A M. Correct. Is it available online that people could administer it to themselves? Although we don't want people making clinical diagnosises of themselves or anyone else? Is it that sort of exam? It

2 (36m 34s):
Is interesting. I don't believe it is a clinically validated tool like an A S C V D, which is like a, a risk of heart attack and stroke tool or many other tools. There's one for depression, there's one for anxiety, they're called PHQ nine and GAD seven respectively. But anyway, there's often an in the atom questionnaire and what you hear from the patient if you are very careful, listener is often different.

0 (37m 1s):
Can you gimme an example of some of the questions on this Adam questionnaire or the sorts of motivational interviewing that you might do? So say, I'm your patient, we sit down, what sorts of questions would you ask to probe these kinds of dimensions of, of hormones?

2 (37m 14s):
Questions about libido, questions about athletic performance, questions about motivation. And often the patient will answer one thing, but what you hear from them subjectively is far different.

0 (37m 27s):
Interesting. Can you gimme an example of, of a question? I'm hap I'm happy to be the, the Guinea pig here.

2 (37m 31s):
A, a classic one is a guy comes in and a, a lot of times they say, oh you know, the wife made me go to the doctor. I go once a year. That's it. I don't want anything, I don't want any medications. Their screening questionnaires might be zeros across the board. So nothing, no issues. They're apparently in perfect health. They talk to you for a while, they get some rapport, they like you. And then right as you're finishing up the visit and about to go out the room, they mentioned that their libido isn't quite there and they're having a little bit of ed as well and perhaps they're even having some chest pressure tightness.

0 (38m 7s):
I see. So right as you're leaving the room, a patient will tell you that they're having some sexual side effects or not side effects, they're having some sexual challenges and then they'll mention chest pressure. Is the chest pressure a sort of general decoy for it's gotta be my heart or is it, or is it related to the other things they're reporting?

2 (38m 25s):
It can be related. In fact, erectile dysfunction is known as the canary in the coal mine. So coal miners would take the canary down and it would, the canary would die before the, the coal miners would've, I believe carbon monoxide poisoning. And often one of the causes of ed is plaque buildup, which can happen in the coronaries as well, but sometimes they notice the symptom and the genitals before they do in the coronaries.

0 (38m 50s):
So for such a patient, let's say that patient was a young person where plaque buildup in the arteries and veins is not all that likely, if they're, let's say in their twenties or thirties, what would be your next step of the interview at that point and what, what would you consider, would you immediately order labs for that person to try and rule out any kind of actual hormone level deficiency?

2 (39m 11s):
I certainly would order labs. There's some individuals that are very similar and they come in and they have the same symptoms and one individual might have a very, very high testosterone and one individual might be severely hypogonadal. So there's a, a big difference between the subjective and what the labs look like. So I certainly order labs. You also ask them about if it's situational or not, or not you ask them if they have ed, if they're, you know, you ask 'em about their habits, you even ask about porn and masturbation and all these issues. And of course it's between the doctor and the patient. And depending on what they tell you, you can often determine if there is a situational component.

2 (39m 51s):
Some people call it, it's psychogenic ed, but I don't love the term psychogenic ed because it kind of puts some, some blame on the patient's mind. But a lot of the time that is the case. There's even a test, and this is very rarely ordered, but it's called a nocturnal penile esent.

0 (40m 10s):
Yeah, because is is it true that there are periodic erections during sleep? Correct? Yes. Yeah.

2 (40m 16s):
So you basically put a cuff to see if you were having a, a normal sized erection during sleep. And I believe about 90% of the time they do that test, they are indeed having erections

0 (40m 28s):
Which would point to this psychogenic origin of whatever challenges they're having In terms of sexual interactions. You mentioned porn and masturbation. This topic has come up a bunch of times on this podcast and on other podcasts I've gone on because of the relationship between dopamine, yes, sexual motivation and sexual behavior. And I've been of the pretty strong stance that while I'm not judging porn or masturbation, it can create a brain wiring situation where males in particular essentially teach their brain to be aroused by watching other people have sex as opposed to being the first person actor in sexual interactions.

0 (41m 10s):
So in that sense, you know, that's more about the brain wiring and neuroplasticity and dopamine, but what are your thoughts on porn and masturbation as they relate to hormones? I mean this is a big debate on the internet. In fact, one of the most common debates is whether or not masturbation increases or decreases testosterone in males. Certainly it will decrease motivation to go find sexual partners. We know this. Yes. And there are more and more data on this all the time in terms of the effects of pornography and masturbation. And here I suppose we need to be somewhat specific and operationally defined what we're talking about, we're talking about porn and masturbation to the point of ejaculation, right?

0 (41m 49s):
Because my understanding is that the ejaculation and and orgasm associated with it causes increase in prolactin, which blunts libido for some period of time. The duration of that will vary from person to person and circumstance to circumstance. But basically all of this points to the fact that porn and masturbation can really limit libido in the real world. And to me, pornography and the screen is not the real world though screens exist in the real world. The real world doesn't exist in the screen.

2 (42m 20s):
That's an accurate statement. And prolactin does have a significant acute increase after ejaculation. It does to some degree after orgasm as well. But prolactin acts on the pituitary to inhibit the release of the hormones, LH and F s h of which LH can increase testosterone. So this may be one of the cases where the dose makes the poison. And if it is a very frequent habit, certainly daily or more than once a day would be very detrimental from a hormonal component. Not even taking into account the, the neural wiring.

0 (42m 60s):
Listen, I think it's terrific that you've actually defined frequency because this is the problem on the internet or even in the doctor's office, you'll see descriptions about pornography being dangerous for certain things or or detrimental to hormones. But you'll say frequent, but what's frequent, so you were saying daily or multiple times per day would be potentially detrimental to the hormone profile of a male of essentially

2 (43m 20s):
Any age. And that's just for masturbation with pornography with porn use as well, it would likely be worse.

0 (43m 30s):
And why, why is that? Just the, the, the sort of dopaminergic drive of the stimulus. Just a really intense visual stimulus,

2 (43m 37s):
Dopamine sensitivity. I think that using the analogy of a dopamine wave pool, it would deepen the pool but not increase your supply of dopamine.

0 (43m 48s):
Maybe you could describe the dopamine wave pool, cuz I think it's such a powerful way of thinking about dopamine and what dopamine does. In fact, I've always credited you in when I've done it, but I've, I've generally stolen your analogy of the dopamine wave pool because it's so astute.

2 (44m 3s):
The dopamine wave pool describes the natural variation of ups and downs in your dopamine or your motivation. And in the wave pool, depending on how high the peak is, you often have a deeper trough. So you do not want too high of a peak. In addition, if your peak is very, very high, for example, when you're using mini substances like cocaine or like amphetamines, your dopamine can go so high, you lose almost all the water from the wave pool. And then when you crash from that, not only is the trough low, you have less dopamine in the pool to begin with.

2 (44m 43s):
The dopamine receptor is extremely sensitive as is the GABA receptor, which is an inhibitory receptor. Whereas dopamine is technically a stimulant more related to adrenaline and nor adrenaline. The depth of the pool can change very quick. So you want to have that happy medium where you're fairly near the top, but you're not so near the top that the depth of the pool is gonna go down.

0 (45m 6s):
So if I interpret that in the context of this discussion about libido, sex porn and masturbation it, if somebody has a very intense sexual experience and not, not here, we're not necessarily talking about an intense orgasm. We're talking about just an in, you know, a lot of intense visual. So very, a lot of intense imagery or auditory input or both, that is going to lead to a situation where dopamine is going to be depleted afterwards. Correct. A guest on this podcast before my colleague at Stanford, Dr. Anna Lemke, who's expert in addiction, talked a bit about this as sort of a seesawing, like here we're talking about a wave and a crashing out of the water from the wave pool. There was a seesawing from pleasure and pain.

0 (45m 48s):
It's gonna be a longer and deeper period of lack of pleasure following that. And I think a lot of people think, oh, well that's great, you know, they want the intense experience. But if that intense experience is coming from pornography and masturbation or I suppose coming from, you know, high adrenaline activities like, you know, life, life risking park or hanging off the side of a building, it inevitably is going to lead to depressive episodes, low libido episodes that follow, is that right?

2 (46m 15s):
Correct. In a similar physiologic way to withdraw from stimulants like amphetamines,

0 (46m 22s):
Now is sex with a partner different because there are many people who are chasing more and more intense experiences with a partner as opposed to through pornography and masturbation? Again, here we're talking about all ages, and I should always say anytime we're talking about sex with a partner, we're talking, I, you know, the, the four conditions that I always lay out on the Human Lab podcast are that we're talking about consensual age appropriate context, appropriate species appropriate interactions.

2 (46m 49s):
Yeah. And this is also a case where the dose makes the poison. So if there's, you know, obviously meeting all those criteria, if they have one preference that for both of them is a positive experience, then that is likely, okay, you're not gonna be able to maintain dopamine over a certain threshold for a long period of time. So there very well may be a crash from that experience as well. And the crash may be different in one partner than the other.

0 (47m 24s):
Interesting, oh, I'll draw an analogy to food. It'll be like, you know, you don't have to serve the banquet meal seven, seven nights of the week, maybe just two. Is that right? And there are other delicious foods out there. Can I, yes. Can we use that analogy? That is very reasonable. Okay. Not trying to be PG 13. Just trying to parsim Occam's razor the ability to describe a lot of things in, in a, in a few words, I'd like to return to the key things that people should do, or I should say the key things that men should do to optimize their hormones. So we talked about getting some movement, getting some sunlight, getting quality social connection one way or the other. Avoid excessively frequent masturbation and viewing pornography. And for some people zero might be the optimal number.

0 (48m 7s):
And I keep coming back to this for most people. For most people. Interesting. I feel so fortunate to have grown up prior to the availability of internet pornography. I've never been a big consumer of pornography, I've just not been my thing. But I hear so often from males of all ages about their addiction to it, their affliction by it. It's really a serious issue and that's one of the reasons why I'm grateful that you're willing to talk about this in your clinical experience with these patients.

AG1 (48m 32s):
I'd like to take a quick break and acknowledge one of our sponsors, athletic Greens, athletic Greens now called Ag One is a vitamin mineral probiotic drink that covers all of your foundational nutritional needs. I've been taking Athletic Greens since 2012, so I'm delighted that they're sponsoring the podcast. The reason I started taking Athletic Greens, and the reason I still take Athletic Greens once or usually twice a day, is that it gets me the probiotics that I need for gut health. Our gut is very important. It's populated by gut microbiota that communicate with the brain, the immune system, and basically all the biological systems of our body to strongly impact our immediate and long-term health. And those probiotics and athletic greens are optimal and vital for microbiotic health. In addition, athletic Greens contains a number of adaptogens, vitamins and minerals that make sure that all of my foundational nutritional needs are met and it tastes great. If you'd like to try Athletic Greens, you can go to athletic greens.com/huberman and they'll give you five free travel packs that make it really easy to mix up athletic greens while you're on the road, in the car, on the plane, et cetera. And they'll give you a year supply of vitamin D three K two. Again, that's athletic greens.com/huberman to get the five free travel packs and the year supply of vitamin D three K two.

2 (49m 47s):
n terms of exercise, you know, here's again, it's a double-edged sword. On the one hand, it's great to get exercise, but I'm familiar with, you know, if I train an hour a day, you know, 10 minutes of warmup in 50 minutes to an hour of weight training or 50 minutes to an hour of cardio, I feel great. Especially if it once a week I take a complete day off. That's sort of my general schedule. I'm also familiar with when I go out for runs that are excessively long, two hour runs or I spend 90 minutes in the gym too frequently start to feel like garbage.

0 (50m 16s):
Everything suffers, my sleep starts to suffer. Doesn't matter how much I eat, I don't seem to recover, I don't feel well. So I realize that recovery ability varies between individuals, but what do you think is a healthy, sustainable exercise regimen that anyone can follow that will also support their hormone status

2 (50m 36s):
For really vigorous exercise around three to four times a week is very sustainable over a long period of time. On top of that, you could add in three or four more instances of less vigorous exercise.

0 (50m 49s):
Okay. So for less vigorous, what do you mean that, you know, zone two cardio where you can hold a conversation, but beyond which you, you can't and for more vigorous you're, you're thinking weight training or hi high intensity interval type training, is

2 (51m 1s):
That right? Correct. You can also weight train and have some benefit even at a low to moderate intensity. If you think about weight training where you have, and it's not necessarily related to the incidence of doms, which is delayed onset muscle soreness, but if you weight train lazy or easy from time to time, obviously you wanna weight train very heavy from time to time as well because of more lean body mass growth. But if you weight train lighter, you're going to be able to do it more often and it can still help with the hypertrophy of collagen, for example, in tendons and ligaments.

0 (51m 40s):
So here again, like to perhaps drill into this notion of intensity and lightweights, because for me some of the most brutal workouts I've ever done were in what I would consider a high repetition range, 15 to 50. Actually I went up to Oregon to watch the international track and field championships and we went by to Cameron Hayes's place, right the, the Cameron Hayes and he and his trainer put us through a workout that was 25 to 50 repetitions per set and it was done in circuit and it was brutal. So it was light, I mean that's, those weights were nothing, in some cases it was body weight, but the number of repetitions was brutal. So when you say limiting intensity, are you talking about limiting the number of sets to failure?

0 (52m 21s):
Are you talking about really being kind of a lazy bear in the gym? I like to do that every once in a long, long rest, that sort of thing. What are, what are your thoughts on that as it relates to hormone optimization? So I'll just mention and then I'll let you answer. I feel best overall when I'm training for 10 minute warmups and about 45 or 50 minutes of weight training where I'm pretty lazy between sets, two to three minute rest training somewhere in the six to 10 rep range. Going to failure every once in a while, but mostly getting that sort of last rep before what I would think is failure, no forest reps, that kind of thing. And then jogging on the other days nice and easy. When I do that, I feel fantastic in all other dimensions of life when I train more intensely than that, even with lightweight.

0 (53m 6s):
So faster cadence and lower rest, I feel like garbage. I get a headache, I'm kind of ornery, I everything suffers. So what are your thoughts on kind of defining a optimal exercise strategy for hormones? I've never measured my hormones in those two different contexts, but I have to imagine that it's cortisol related.

2 (53m 25s):
When they study the effect of exercise, specifically vigorous exercise, one area that's been studied is vigorous exercise episodes lasting longer than an hour and they usually track it by a rating of perceived exertion, which isn't perfect and it's not extremely actionable, but it's helpful for clinical science. But the takeaway from that is basically do not, it is not hormonally helpful to train, especially regularly train vigorously for longer than an hour.

0 (53m 58s):
Okay. So I'm happy to hear that because it sounds like for most people that hour of work is really the threshold. I think this is important for people to hear, especially males because I think with all of the incredible examples out there of people like cam, like David Goggins, people who are training for very long periods of time, you know, and leaving aside all issues of what people are doing in order to optimize the recovery. I think an hour a day of exercise is just a great program. Yeah. That most anyone can follow. And beyond an hour you start running into challenges and I, you know, the occasional 90 minute or two hour workout is no big deal, but if you start doing that more than once every two months, I think you're headed for trouble.

0 (54m 43s):
Have you seen that in people's blood, blood work and in their hormones? Do you ever see people that are just badly over trained because they're just training too hard and too often?

2 (54m 52s):
Yes. When the blood work is particularly bad, they're often in a large caloric deficit as well. There's a synergistic effect between a caloric deficit, even if you're maintaining adequate protein intake. You might not be maintaining adequate iron intake or adequate vitamin D and you're also just literally in a caloric deficit, perhaps low carbs as well, very low free testosterone and they're simultaneously doing a lot of vigorous exercise.

0 (55m 24s):
Interesting. I often hear, and I'm starting to wonder whether or not some of the quicker to result nutrition tactics, things like dropping all carbohydrates or the quicker to results exercise habits, like starting to do six day a week really intense workouts. Whether or not in the short run they work because they cause the cosmetic changes that people are seeking, but that they really undermine the overall goal, which is at least to me, to have your hormones maybe not optimized to the, you know, a hundred percent, but to always be aiming for a hundred percent and be close to it at every stage of life.

2 (56m 3s):
Consistency is key here. If you are not consistent, then the law diminishing returns certainly applies. So 80 or 90% of the benefit over many, many months is far better than a hundred percent but only half the time.

0 (56m 21s):
Yeah. One thing that I found to be tremendously useful is to finish the workout while I still have energy to not take myself to exhaustion and then I'm able to kind of talk about the dopamine wave pool. I'm able to sort of ride that into the rest of the day feeling great. I, I sort of save or bank some of the vigor from the training to bring it into my work. But then again, I'm not an athlete. I don't, I get paid to think and to speak not to not to lift weights or to run.

2 (56m 47s):
Another component of that is the balance between your sympathetic, which is your fight or flight nervous system and your parasympathetic, which is your rest or digest nervous system. There is an anecdote which is likely true that many elite bodybuilders are very parasympathetic. Besides what, while they're lifting

0 (57m 4s):
Weights, you mean they're lazy and they like to eat a lot. Yeah, the lazy bear in the gym kind of phenomenon.

2 (57m 10s):
Absolutely. But that being said, after a very, very vigorous workout, for example, one where you're trained to failure, which bodybuilders and power lifters do all the time, you feel the tiredness or you feel these strain from that heavy sympathetic activity when you are lifting a heavy weight and it can potentially affect how you feel the rest of the day. So many people who have a job where that is highly cognitive do not like to have an extremely vigorous workout in the morning, which is when a lot of people are able to exercise.

0 (57m 44s):
When I exercise early in the morning, that is before 9:00 AM I have more energy all day long. If I do it mid-morning, I have experienced more of an afternoon crash. There's probably some circadian biology in there. I've also noticed, and I've actually seen in my blood work that if I don't get out for a 45 minute jog at least once a week, all of my blood profiles suffer in direction that I don't want them to go in particular testosterone and estrogen move in directions that are not conducive to my goals. I'd like to talk about some of the approaches that people can use in order to optimize hormones and these days, for better or for worse, I think for worse, younger guys are asking about and using testosterone replacement therapy, so-called T R T.

0 (58m 30s):
And I just want to frame this up by saying there is no strict cutoff for what is T R T. There are plenty of people whose blood levels of testosterone estrogen are in the, within the normal reference range and decide to start doing these things. Of course they can limit fertility. There are a bunch of issues even at non steroidal performance enhancing dosages. I'd love to frame this out by first defining our terms because one of the challenges on the internet is people talk about T R t, then they'll talk about performance enhancing drugs, they'll talk about steroids, they're all steroids, right? I mean testosterone, estrogen are both steroid hormones, but what one considered replacement therapy versus what one considers performance enhancing is gonna depend, right?

0 (59m 11s):
So here's my question. Why in the world, why in the world would any male in his teens or twenties or even thirties whose blood levels of testosterone and estrogen are at the appropriate levels, meaning within the normal reference range? Why would they u take exogenous testosterone given all the negative effects on fertility, some of the challenges that it can present if the dosages aren't quite right, et cetera. Why would they do that? Certainly if they are not being paid for a particular endeavor, like they're not making money. If they are playing a sport, chances are they're not allowed to do that anyway.

0 (59m 51s):
It's, it's on the pan substances list. So to me it just seems like a crazy idea. But then again, I'm of a generation that really hasn't thought about doing that stuff until people were in their forties and fifties or even never. So is there ever a case for somebody in their twenties or thirties to take testosterone ESP if their blood levels are within the 300 to 900 nanograms per deciliter reference range?

2 (1h 0m 17s):
Not many cases. The reason for any performance enhancing drug, whether or not it is a steroid synthetic bioidentical or otherwise it, it varies a lot. Some individuals do it only for cosmetic reasons, even if it can have deleterious effects on like the cosmetic appearance for example, of your skin in a long run. But you know, everyone has their different reason. As far as like when does the benefit outweigh the detriment? Not very often if you're in your twenties and certainly probably almost hardly never. There's always, you know, rare cases like Coleman syndrome and whatnot, but almost never if you are very young.

0 (1h 1m 3s):
Okay, so for people in their twenties, thirties and beyond forties et cetera, whose testosterone and estrogen levels are at the appropriate ratios and in the, within the normal reference range and they feel pretty good, right? We talked about the atoms exam or this sort of like feel pretty good as sort of code for libido, energy recovery, et cetera, and are feeling, you know, at least workable for for their lifestyle. For those people, what can they do besides get great sleep train but not too hard or too often, et cetera, et cetera? What are some of the things in the realm of supplementation that can help them optimize their testosterone and estrogen without suppressing their own endogenous production of testosterone and estrogen?

2 (1h 1m 47s):
Let's mention creatine is the first one. Creatine is interesting because it has multiple different effects. It helps with amino acid synthesis, it also helps with oxidative stress. It can also serve as the backup fuel tank for your mitochondria. So kind of holding backup A T P and it does slightly increase total testosterone and it also increases the conversion of testosterone to dihydro testosterone. So potentially it's especially useful in men in their, even their teenage years and their twenties.

0 (1h 2m 18s):
You mentioned the conversion of testosterone to dihydro testosterone and there is mythology out there that creatine can increase hair loss. I'm guessing because there's at least one study showing that creatine can increase D H T dihydro testosterone and D H T is one of the primary hormones that can promote male pattern baldness. So the question therefore is does CRE creatine supplementation increase the rate of hair loss?

2 (1h 2m 45s):
Theoretically it can, but in, in each individual preventing hair loss is a very poor reason to take creatine because it's not going to take you to a supra physiologic level. It's not going to, you know, increase your androgens to an UN-normal level of binding. So I feel like this, if that was a reason to not take creatine for hair loss, then that's You

0 (1h 3m 13s):
Mean for, sorry, you mean hair loss is not a reason to avoid taking creatine?

2 (1h 3m 18s):
Correct. Hair loss is not a reason to avoid taking creatine. It think of it as just bringing you to what you are naturally inclined to have. If your conversion of testosterone a DHT is already high, then often creatine does not affect this. It just kind of resets your balance between testosterone being aromatized to estrogen or bean five alpha reduced D H T. So it's not gonna speed up hair loss more than just naturally being a male does. So in some individuals it will have no effect in some individuals, for whatever reason they have almost no five alpha duct taste activity. It will return them to natural or normal.

0 (1h 3m 58s):
I see. Well I take five grams a day of creatine monohydrate. I do it for the tissue izing effects of for exercise benefits but also for the cognitive effects. I don't know if it's increasing my hair loss. I mean I've got a little bit of of sort of widow's peak type hair loss. That's where it is for me. I suppose beard growth is associated with DHT two most, is that right? I my what I learned, but then again I haven't been into this literature in a long time, is that because of change differences in receptors that D H G causes hair growth on the face and hair loss on the head, is that right?

2 (1h 4m 31s):
Yes. And the amount and the sensitivity and density of those receptors is genetically determined.

0 (1h 4m 38s):
And is it true that if your mother's father was bald, that you will be bald in the same pattern and if that he wasn't, you won't.

2 (1h 4m 46s):
That is a decent correlation. Part of the proposed mechanism of this. Well, there's several genes and you can actually test your genes for hair loss. You do get a decent amount of them from your mother. The unique thing you get from your mother that she may have gotten from her fa that she got one of the copies from her father is your X chromosome and the androgen receptor gene is on your X chromosome. So all men got their androgen receptor gene from their mother.

0 (1h 5m 13s):
It's on their X chromosome, not on the Y chromosome. Correct. Interesting. Even though all of the sort of quote unquote male, male promoting genes are on the Y chromosome like malaria, inhibiting, et cetera. Oh, interesting. Yes. Okay. So five grams a day of creatine for most people should be fine. Beneficial for tissue izing. So strength, bringing water into the muscles and for cogni the cognitive effects and the clinical support recruitin I think is, is quite strong at the five gram per day dosage. What other sorts of supplements can people benefit from? We already talked about the omegas and making sure that people are getting enough prebiotic fiber to support the gut microbiome and vitamin D.

0 (1h 5m 54s):
So what other supplement based tools can people consider?

2 (1h 5m 59s):
Another one we can loop in with creatine is betaine. Some people are non-responder to creatine, so you can increase that to 10 grams or you can use its cousin betaine to help with amino acid synthesis and shunting of energy. Along with that I would put L carnitine, which is actually the smallest peptide hormone. It's just two amino acids that are put together. So it's a, it's a

0 (1h 6m 23s):
Hormone.

2 (1h 6m 24s):
Interesting.

0 (1h 6m 24s):
Well I'm not challenging peptide.

2 (1h 6m 26s):
Yeah,

0 (1h 6m 26s):
I'm not

2 (1h 6m 27s):
Challenging. I would call it a A peptide more, more than a hormone. So I, I would not call el carino hormone. Okay. But I would call dopamine a hormone. Yeah,

0 (1h 6m 35s):
Could a neuro hormone. It's, it's so hard to, to define things as trans or hormones at some level. I agree. So El carnitine, actually I should backtrack Betaine, do you recall what dosage people typically would take if they're I creatine non-responder,

2 (1h 6m 52s):
One to three grams in fact, yeah, several versions of creatine have betaine mixed in because it helps with the processing of methionine and homocystine.

0 (1h 7m 1s):
So if somebody is already taking creatine and likes it in response to it, I'll raise my hand such as myself. Would adding betaine help or is it redundant with creatine?

2 (1h 7m 12s):
Only if their homocystine is persistently elevated and homocystine is kind of like an inflammatory marker that can build up if you're not converting enough of it downstream.

0 (1h 7m 20s):
How would I know?

2 (1h 7m 22s):
Just a blood test. Okay. Or if you knew your MT HFR polymorphism, which is basically how you add methyl groups to many things in the body.

0 (1h 7m 33s):
Great. Any side effects of betaine that people should be aware of?

2 (1h 7m 37s):
Not that I know of.

0 (1h 7m 38s):
Okay. People can look it up and on. examine.com is a great site for that. They'll surely list it. They just revamped their site by the way and it was awesome before and it's platinum now. So elk carnitine, what are the ways to take elk carnitine? I know that there's an oral form, so capsules and there's injectables. The injectables, I think you need a prescription, is that right? Correct.

2 (1h 7m 59s):
Do you need a prescription for the injectables or you should really get a prescription for the injectables for when you inject it of of course at the supervision of your doctor. It's usually done intramuscularly. It's an aqueous solution so it does not have like an oil or a carrier oil in it like tr like testosterone Esther do. However, if you inject it too superficially, it's not gonna make or rake anything often it just burns if you inject it subcutaneously and it does not disseminate throughout the body as well. L carnitine potentially has localized effects if you inject it, if you ingest it orally, then it has a very low bioavailability, maybe only 10%.

0 (1h 8m 41s):
Well I think most people are going to be able to get L carnitine only or you know in its capsule form. So what are the dosages of L carnitine that one needs to ingest then if they want to get a benefit? Because if only 10% is being absorbed, it's probably a lot of L carnitine. How much should people take per day?

2 (1h 8m 59s):
Usually I recommend for oral L carnitine between 1000 milligrams and up to four or 5,000 milligrams.

0 (1h 9m 6s):
Okay, so one to four, maybe even five grams? Correct.

2 (1h 9m 9s):
Okay. Up to five grams a day. If you're on that much, especially if you have a dysregulated gut microbiome, you should be concerned with t M ao, which is a potential carcinogen that both carnitine and choline can convert into and your gut microbiota determine how much that

0 (1h 9m 27s):
Happens. Is it true that I can offset any negative effects of alpha GC choline That is NL carnitine that I take by ingesting garlic, is that right?

2 (1h 9m 38s):
There's a compound in garlic called Allison. I believe it's A L L I C I N. It's also part of the scientific name, the genus of types of garlic. And this can help decrease the conversion to T M ao Burberine actually slightly decreases the conversion to TMAO as well, probably through alteration of the gut microbiome and then just optimizing your gut microbiome can decrease conversion. So not everyone needs Allison, but it's something that you should certainly consider if you were on a high dose.

0 (1h 10m 7s):
I'm going to continue to take the 600 milligrams of garlic every time I take my L carnitine, but I'm going to skip the berberine cuz berberine gives me brutal headaches and it makes me carbohydrates because it drops my blood

2 (1h 10m 18s):
Sugar. It has many other effects including the dawn phenomenon where it drops your blood sugar when you're sleeping and you can't even realize

0 (1h 10m 24s):
It. I am not a fan of burberine and I'm sorry for those of you that are, I'm not trying to offend anyone, although frankly if you're being offended by by stance on burberine then maybe we should have another discussion. In any case, injectable L carnitine, if one can get that through a doctor, how much is absorbed and how much should one take?

2 (1h 10m 44s):
Almost all of it's absorbed. In general, you're taking between 500 milligrams up to you can take a pretty high dose up to 2000 milligrams.

0 (1h 10m 53s):
Okay. And what we did not talk about is what L carnitine does. So why should, why should someone go through all of this? Is it to optimize testosterone? Is it working on the receptor side? What? What's EL carnitine doing?

2 (1h 11m 6s):
It's a shuttle, so I think it's named carnitine palmat till coenzyme A. Basically it's, it just takes nutrients from outside your mitochondria and puts them in. It also has a unique effect, well not too unique because tadalafil actually has its effect as well is that it increases the density of the androgen receptor and the cytoplasm of your cells. So even if your androgen receptor sensitivity doesn't change and even if your doesn't testosterone does not change, you will have more testosterone biting to that increased number of receptors.

0 (1h 11m 39s):
Does one need to cycle L carnitine? Creatine, betaine,

2 (1h 11m 43s):
No reason to cycle any of those.

0 (1h 11m 46s):
Okay. What other supplements can one use to try and improve hormone profiles and, and here I realize we're using a very broad brush because when we say improve hormone profiles, what are we really talking about? And for me at las I I think about the subjective stuff, you know, do people feel like they are going to have more energy as a consequence of doing these things? Are they gonna have the more optimized libido? Are they gonna have more optimized recovery from exercise? Right, because I mean it, it's not clear to me that taking one testosterone from 600 to 800 is always gonna be a good thing, especially if estrogen is increasing in parallel. That could cause issues. It could certainly make things better. It could certainly make things worse.

0 (1h 12m 26s):
Right. So with that backdrop, what are some of the other things people can take and then we'll go back to this issue of what really is optimization?

2 (1h 12m 35s):
Let's briefly mention vitamin D, which is also a hormone. It's actually a sterile hormone and have, if you have deficient vitamin D and you replace it, then you'll optimize your testosterone. Let's also mention boron. So if you have a very high S H B G boron can acutely help lower it usually in a dose of five to 12 milligrams per day. It's not really a sustained effect, but boron is depleted in soils in many countries. I believe it's very high in soils in Greece and Turkey. So eating dates or raisins that are from those areas potentially have more boron. Boron also might be one of the reasons why the reference range for testosterone is much higher in those countries than other countries.

0 (1h 13m 17s):
And just to remind people, the S H P G sex hormone binding globulin is attaching to the testosterone molecule and limiting the amount of so-called free testosterone that's available to have its impact on cells. When Dr. Peter Atilla was on this podcast, in fact sitting in that very chair, he said that the ideal level of free testosterone in male should be about 2% of one's total testosterone do. Would you agree with that number or disagree? I'm sure Peter would be fine if you said either

2 (1h 13m 44s):
2% is a good rule of thumb. Usually the reference range is between about one and 4%. Some people do have genetic polymorphisms in S H B G A specific gene mutation where they have very low hgs. Also men that have varicose veins in their testes, also known as vari seals, tend to have very high hgs. So that percentage would likely be less than 2%. So just because your percentage of free tea to total tea is a little bit above or below 2%, that's okay. We just need to figure out the reason why it is,

0 (1h 14m 20s):
How would somebody know if they have varicose veins in their testicles, especially if their testicles are still in attached to their body.

2 (1h 14m 28s):
Sometimes it's hard to tell. There is several grades. If you have a grade three or a grade four test vari seal, it has what's called a bag of worms appearance. So think about if you've just resistance trained or it's a really hot day or you're wearing very tight fitting clothing, then if you feel it and it almost feels like there's worms in the scrotum, the other way is to do

0 (1h 14m 51s):
A scary visual.

2 (1h 14m 52s):
Yeah, bag of worms.

0 (1h 14m 54s):
Yeah, well just that. Yeah. Anyway, I think parasites when I hear that, but that's not what you're referring to. You're talking about just the the the, the texture.

2 (1h 15m 2s):
The best way for most people to check is to Valsalva for a long period of time when you Valsalva Venus return will decrease.

0 (1h 15m 12s):
Can you explain Valsalva for

2 (1h 15m 13s):
People? It's bearing down like you're lifting a weight or having a bowel movement where you swallow and all all, a lot of times you can almost see buildup of blood in your like jugular veins as well. So you have incre decreased blood return to the heart and increased blood in the veins themself.

Inside Tracker (1h 15m 35s):
I'd like to take a brief break and thank our sponsor inside Tracker. Inside Tracker is a personalized nutrition platform that analyzes data from your blood and DNA to help you better understand your body and help you reach your health goals. I've long been a believer in getting regular blood work done for the simple reason that many of the factors that impact your immediate and long-term health can only be analyzed from a quality blood test. The problem with a lot of blood and DNA tests out there however is that you get data back about metabolic factors, lipids and hormones and so forth, but you don't know what to do with those data. Inside Tracker solves that problem and makes it very easy for you to understand what sorts of nutritional, behavioral, maybe even supplementation based interventions you might want to take on in order to adjust the numbers of those metabolic factors, hormones, lipids, and other things that impact your immediate and long-term health to bring those numbers into the ranges that are appropriate and indeed optimal for you. If you'd like to try inside Tracker, you can visit inside tracker.com/huberman and get 20% off any of inside tracker's plans. That's inside tracker.com/huberman to get 20% off.

2 (1h 16m 40s):
Okay, so vitamin D three, I'm guessing you're talking about vitamin D three specifically when you say vitamin D and then boron five to 12 milligrams per day. Right. And then what are some of the other things to optimize testosterone that are in supplement form? We could talk about things that affect the steroidogenesis cascade so we could touch on tong. I know we've talked about that a little bit before.

0 (1h 17m 2s):
It's also Yeah, but I'm guessing a number of people probably haven't heard that conversation,

2 (1h 17m 6s):
Also known as LJ and that upregulates several different enzymes in the steroidogenesis cascade. And by that what you mean if, and this is another good thing to Google, I think anybody interested in hormone optimization should understand where hor, where sterile hormones come from. They come usually from cholesterol and they can be shunted off to vitamin D very easily. They can be shunted off to testosterone or estrogens or estrogens quite easily as well. But tongkat helps with the conversion of multiple key steps where you synthesize testosterone. Another think of it as like a co-enzyme or a co-factor.

2 (1h 17m 46s):
An up regulator of these steps is insulin and IGF one. So a good rule of thumb is if you are not expecting as much growth hormone insulin and IGF one for example, lower carb diets, caloric deficits, you're trying to cut body fat or body weight, then ton cat is going to be theoretically especially powerful.

0 (1h 18m 10s):
What sorts of dosages of Tonga do you recommend to your patients?

2 (1h 18m 14s):
Anywhere from 300 to 1200 milligrams a day with Tongkat you need to be careful with the standardization because, and if you're thinking about a general tongkat supplement, which is by far the most well studied, then you're looking at the URI CHONe content, which is a plant compound that is likely the main active pharmacologic effect. So that's the compound that's having the effect on the body. And if you standardize the URI CHONe very, very high than theoretically you're having more effect at a lower dose.

0 (1h 18m 50s):
I take 400 milligrams of Tonga ALI per day. I take it early in the day because it has a bit of a stimulant effect and if I take it after 2:00 PM it starts to inhibit my sleep. I've been taking it for years and I rather like the, the effects that it seems subtle but you know consistent, I've never cycled it. Do you recommend cycling it?

2 (1h 19m 12s):
I don't see any reason to cycle it. There is, there is a reason to cycle some supplements but no reason to cycle Tonka.

0 (1h 19m 20s):
My blood work tells me that it causes an increase in free testosterone for me and also a slight increase in lutin hormone for me. What are some of the other effects on various hormones that you've observed in the blood work of your patients? Taking Tonga Ali

2 (1h 19m 36s):
Tonka can also slightly increase D H E A and if you have a very high S H B G, again that's the protein that binds up your androgens and estrogens and extremely important protein. The higher your S H B G, the more it helps decrease it. So they've studied tongkat in populations with very normal HGS and it does nothing for SH B g.

0 (1h 19m 60s):
Interesting. Does that mean it does nothing for somebody overall? So if somebody has S H B G that's in the normal range, well taking tongkat benefit them in any other way?

2 (1h 20m 9s):
Yes, it it'll increase their total and free testosterone.

0 (1h 20m 13s):
Got it, okay. Does it, is it known to have effects on anything else like thyroid hormone growth hormone or is it purely in these steroid synthesis pathways or steroid, I should say synthesis and receptor and modulation pathways?

2 (1h 20m 26s):
There's no direct effect on those pathways. However, anytime you alter your free androgen or free estrogen, particularly one without altering the other, it will alter the binding protein that binds thyroid hormones. So any change you make, whether it's natural optimization or hormone replacement, you're going to slightly skew your thyroid hormone profile. One common like actionable example of this that I see often clinically is someone starts let's say estrogen replacement or testosterone replacement. Maybe they're taking a AI with their testosterone replacement

0 (1h 21m 3s):
Aromatase inhibitor,

2 (1h 21m 5s):
Correct. An aromatase inhibitor which blocks the conversion to estrogen. If they're taking testosterone and they have very little estrogen, then you're going to decrease the binding protein, also known as thyroxine binding globulin, which binds active thyroid hormones. So if you start T R T and you either have low aromatase activity or no aromatase activity, no conversion to estrogen, then your free thyroid hormones will go up even just acutely. Usually feedback inhibition, which is how the body talks to itself and says, you know, we need to make more of this or less of this, but acutely there's not always enough time.

2 (1h 21m 46s):
You're going to have very high thyroid hormones and you can have tachycardia, which is a fast heart rate or you can feel kind of like overly fight or flight due to increased thyroid hormone activity in the end tissue.

0 (1h 22m 1s):
Interesting. Okay, so Tong Ali, this this a broad range, 300 to 1200 milligrams per day and I realize that the source matters there. What are some of the other hormones that you prescribe to your patients who do not want to go on testosterone replacement therapy or take exogenous D H E A or anything like that?

2 (1h 22m 21s):
We could talk about Fido next. Fido is interesting because it's a genus of plants. Fido gratis is one of them. There's many others that are very interesting. That species is likely the most well studied and it will increase lh. So rising hormone, I would not consider it an LH mimetic, so it doesn't really mimic it, but it increases the release of lutin hormone from the pituitary. That's a hormone that binds to the latex cell to the LH receptor, kind of like H C G does and it will increase the release of testosterone.

0 (1h 22m 54s):
I see. So I think for people that aren't familiar with H C G, so human chorionic gonadotropin is basically synthetic luteinizing hormone and luteinizing hormone is the hormone release from the pituitary that is going to travel down to the testes to stimulate the production of sperm and testosterone, but mainly testosterone, is that correct?

2 (1h 23m 12s):
Mostly correct. Technically synthetic LH is also known as little r LH or recombinant LH and H C G can be synthetic, but often it is just refined from the urine of pregnant ladies since the it since the placenta mix it. That's why it's called chorionic gonadotropin.

0 (1h 23m 31s):
So where are they getting all this pregnant women's urine? I mean is, I mean there's there a location. I mean not that I want to go there. Donation, yeah, really. So they're women

2 (1h 23m 42s):
Trimester pregnant ladies, it's very high

0 (1h 23m 44s):
Donating their urine and then they're purifying it and then men are injecting it?

2 (1h 23m 50s):
Yes.

0 (1h 23m 51s):
Wow.

2 (1h 23m 51s):
And that's actually the same for menopausal ladies. So first trimester pregnant ladies, that's how you can make you know, non-synthetic H C G. And then for tropin, which are also known, there's a couple of different names for it. Like minur, you have menopausal ladies that have very high LH and FS H and then you refine the FSH and lh.

0 (1h 24m 14s):
Okay. So moving away from the sources and from urine Fido gratis, what dosages do you have patients take? I've heard of some potential toxicity to the testicular cells.

2 (1h 24m 28s):
There is one study, and this is a rat study, but you can equate the dose of toxicity in rats in humans. They did not give these rats any antioxidants, but it increases a couple different like pro-inflammatory markers. One is G G T or gamma glutamyl transferase comes from both the testes and the liver and one is ALK and phosphatase, also known as alk foss. Again, coming from both areas, there are several different ways that you can attenuate this increase. And you can also just check to see if you have increased in the rat dose that equates with humans that had no effect. So the safe dose was an average of 300 milligrams a

0 (1h 25m 7s):
Day. So that would be 300 milligrams a day in humans is the dosage that did not have toxicity. Correct?

2 (1h 25m 14s):
Correct. And often even if there is toxicity in rats, there is not toxicity in humans. So it's not directly equitable, but to be safe. Another regimen that I have people take is 600 milligrams every other day or 600 milligrams three times a week. Often Monday, Wednesday, Friday. Mm.

0 (1h 25m 33s):
This is very interesting and and relevant because I, I've been taking OCIO for some period of time. All my markers and and tests indicate that there's no toxicity, but I've been taking 600 milligrams per day but I've been cycling it for about eight to 12 weeks on and then a few weeks off. But based on what you're saying, I'm thinking maybe three times per week or or every other day might be better. Is that right?

2 (1h 25m 57s):
If you weren't gonna get any labs, that is certainly the regimen that you want. If you're gonna check your G G T and ALK FOSS or even take other things to prevent those from increasing, then you can certainly be more aggressive with your ocia dosing you can increase it quite a bit and it has a dose-dependent response in both the activities associated with high testosterone and also just LH and testosterone. So the on a more aggressive regimen would be 600 milligrams daily for a month and then take one to two weeks off.

0 (1h 26m 30s):
Great. I think that's more or less what I've been doing. Okay, terrific. In terms of other hormones, what are some of the supplements that can support growth hormone, right? A hormone that's associated with tissue repair and in some cases metabolism and fat loss. What are some of the tools nutritional and or supplement based one can do to tap on the growth hormone pathway and, and let's lump IGF one in there too since they're essentially working along the same dimensions.

2 (1h 26m 58s):
A quick synopsis growth hormone is a peptide hormone and it is released by the pituitary. There's growth hormone releasing hormone and grelin that stimulate the release. So there's also peptides that are very analogous to these two things. You have that pulsitile secretion of growth hormone in a very fast half-life of just minutes and then it increases IGF one. There is both peripheral IGF one and central IGF one and IGF two, but no need to get into the specifics. There is a happy medium to where your growth hormone is at a adequate level and your IGF one is an adequate level. Usually those two are congruent. So in most cases we just check an IGF one and occasionally the binding peptides for IGF one, kind of like S H B G that we talked about earlier.

2 (1h 27m 46s):
But you're estimating a free IGF one is is kind of confusing because all hormone, almost all hormones have binding proteins to help regulate them. But often you wanna look at free testosterone, free estradiol, free IGF one or at least estimate it free cortisol even and free thyroid hormone. But when you're talking about growth hormone and IGF one, usually you don't need to do anything to optimize it. If you are diabetic then and depending on the type of diabetes, your IGF one and growth hormone can be too high. Specifically in type one diabetes, your growth hormone is extremely high but your IGF one is low.

2 (1h 28m 30s):
So if you are in a dysregulated state or have pathology, I would just talk to your doctor about IGF one or growth hormone taking thing. Taking amino acids before you go to bed could potentially help with growth hormone release just because most growth hormone is released while you sleep.

0 (1h 28m 48s):
I've heard that fasting can increase growth hormone and I know there are certain patterns of weight training that can increase growth hormone. Some of those regimens in the weight room that increase growth hormone have been covered by Dr. Duncan French who is a on a guest on this podcast. But so maybe we'll refer people to that episode. For the specific protocols, these high volume

2 (1h 29m 12s):
Training during those training exercises, it usually does it transiently for a period of a few hours and it, a lot of this IGF one is released by the muscle itself. So it's not necessarily released by the liver IGF one that is released directly due to growth hormone signaling. Usually the growth hormone comes from the pituitary and binds to the liver where usually has a half-life of about a week where the pericrine or autocrine think of it as like the peripherally acting or acting in the muscles itself, which is also helpful, is released and is not as concerning because it's not related to insulin resistance but it is related to the training itself.

0 (1h 29m 54s):
So fasting and growth hormone. Is it true that fasting can increase growth hormone? And maybe as a little related tangent, I've heard that limiting food intake for the two hours before going to sleep can increase the pulse of growth hormone. That one experiences during sleep, of course everyone gets a pulse of growth hormone during sleep, but especially carbohydrate laden meals can blunt that peak that occurs during sleep quite substantially. So two questions. Does avoiding food intake in the two hours prior to sleep help increase growth hormone release? Maybe it's being overly neurotic, maybe people need to avoid food in the four hours before sleep.

0 (1h 30m 34s):
But regardless what is the relationship between fasting and growth hormone release? I find this really

2 (1h 30m 39s):
Interesting fasting, certainly potently increases growth hormone release. However the end binding to the receptor is less sensitive. So although fasting does increase growth hormone, the genes that are downstream to it, both the growth hormone genes and IGF one related gene transcription activity will not be significantly higher. However, if you are optimizing the growth hormone that is released as pulsitile secretion, it is helpful to avoid eating for two hours. So the general rule of thumb is avoid eating about two hours before bed. I think that's clinically significant and helpful.

2 (1h 31m 21s):
But fasting otherwise specifically for growth hormone optimization in someone who already has normal growth hormone signaling is not helpful.

0 (1h 31m 30s):
That's extremely useful to hear because the, one of the major reasons why people fast is to get that growth hormone increase. But if they're adjusting things on the backend that negate that, well then no such luck. Not that I have anything against fasting, I do a pseudo intermittent fasting mostly cuz I prefer to eat at fairly regular times of day. Okay, so it doesn't sound like there's a lot that people can take in supplement form to improve growth hormone. What about thyroid hormone? What are some of the things that people can take or do in in order to make sure that their thyroid hormone levels are appropriate?

2 (1h 32m 5s):
You wanna have a balance of iodine and you wanna have a good source of iodine. So there's some camps that say you should use a huge high dose of iodine and there's protocols for it and there's some that say you should use just barely enough iodine, I believe like 200 micrograms per day. But you wanna balance, one of the things that I see that many people do not talk about when it comes to iodine and thyroid is there's compounds known as goitrogens or goitrogens and these goitrogens are neither good nor evil, but they're actually kind of a nice check and balance. You need more iodine if you consume more goitrogens. And some examples of these are some of my favorite food foods, cruciferous vegetables, boron is also a goitrogen.

2 (1h 32m 51s):
So higher goitrogens, higher iodine.

0 (1h 32m 55s):
So ingesting iodine containing salt is useful. Yes or no.

2 (1h 33m 1s):
Iodized salt does prevent goiter, but it is not necessarily the ideal form of iodine. Good forms of iodine often come from the ocean. If you look at a chart of hypothyroidism, there is a tendency to have more hypothyroidism the more inland you go.

0 (1h 33m 18s):
So trying to eat some cruciferous vegetables each day would be the best way to improve thyroid

2 (1h 33m 24s):
Hormone along with plenty of iodine. You don't want too much iodine signaling. Many people are familiar with radioactive iodine tablets and that's basically an extremely high amount of iodine to block out the, like the radioactive iodine that comes from after a, you know, like a nuclear meltdown or whatnot.

0 (1h 33m 42s):
So we've got creatine, bi elk carnitine with Allison garlic to offset the tmao vitamin D three boron, toga, Ali Fedia, some fasting, love to talk to you about peptides. So I can imagine a hierarchy. The hierarchy starts with behaviors, nut and nutrition behaviors of course includes training and limiting stress and all the things we talked about before, sunshine, et cetera, and optimize nutrition. Then we talked about supplements, all the things we just listed off to optimize testosterone and we can get into this but estrogen as well, which is important for libido and brain function and tissue function and joints feeling good et cetera.

0 (1h 34m 27s):
But then we get into the realm where one might or could consider exogenous hormones get taking a small dose of testosterone or taking a small dose of of GH even if you know if that were appropriate and certainly only working with a doctor. But in between there's a step of so-called peptides and of course there are many peptides we've already talked about some of them, but when people talk about taking peptides, the ones that I hear most often about is A, A category that increases GH and IGF one. And those to my knowledge go by the things like sir ilin tesamorelin sort of a a kit of things that taken separately or or in combination to increase GH and IGF one.

0 (1h 35m 10s):
But then other people for instance are taking peptides like B BPC 1 57 to try and improve tissue healing and recovery. There's a lot of interest in peptides. Please if you would tell us about what you know about the safety of peptides in terms of their sourcing and the utility of peptides. You know, is this something that people should consider before thinking about hormone replacement? Should people be wary of these things? I am very wary of particular sources that are sold online that are not clean. They contain contaminants and it could be dangerous. I really would love your thoughts on peptides. So I'm just gonna sit back and let you riff on peptides, but if you could touch on some of the ones that I mentioned, I'd be most grateful.

2 (1h 35m 50s):
A peptide is just a chain of amino acids between two and a couple hundred in length. So I think of peptides as several different categories and the G H RRP that you mentioned, I would consider those. And that stands for growth hormone releasing peptide. You have two main types, the golin agonist that or they hit the grelin receptor and those and it helps release growth hormone because of that. And then also the G H R H like peptide. So they're very similar to growth hormone releasing hormone. Often they just change a couple amino acids and it acts like that.

2 (1h 36m 30s):
Tesamorelin is one of them, Smolin is another one and CJC is another common one I believe. Those are all in the class of G H R H like peptides. Whereas IPO morlin or ibut Morin, which is also known as MK 6 77, those two are in the class of ghrelin agonists. So they're more like they hit the receptor that ghrelin does, whereas the other ones hit the GH H R H receptor.

0 (1h 36m 55s):
I think if ghrelin is making me hungry,

2 (1h 36m 57s):
Hungry and angry,

0 (1h 36m 58s):
Why would I want to take something that would increase growlin signaling?

2 (1h 37m 3s):
Some people are trying to gain weight, it also does increase your growth hormone. So if your growth hormone is very low, you can consider it ibut. Moin is a long-acting. So as a long half-life also known as MK 6 77, it was, well it was studied mostly in growth hormone deficiency.

0 (1h 37m 20s):
And do these people get angry also,

2 (1h 37m 23s):
They can, many people report a side effect of anxiety or significant hunger. Most people take it in the evening so they don't notice that hunger as much. It can also greatly increase your blood glucose. So if your insulin resistant or pre-diabetic gets E, especially concerning,

0 (1h 37m 42s):
This is one of those rare moments where I hear something and I that and I think, okay, even though there's this kit of compounds that can increase GH and IGF one based on everything you're telling me, maybe just taking GH is the better option for those people because growth hormone, at least it's synthetic growth hormone is mimicking an endogenous hormone. I mean certainly not taking anything, it might be the ideal, but for those that want to increase growth hormone and they want to use pharmacology to do that. Sounds like these peptides are pretty precarious.

2 (1h 38m 13s):
Yeah, it kind of depends on the situation. If there's a, an individual that struggles with hunger and not eating enough, for example, you know, someone who has a very small stomach or they just have a very low hunger drive, sometimes you want more of that. Or exogenic signaling the hypothalamus, you have anorexic signaling, which is kinda like anorexia and origen signaling, which is, I call it the hangry center of the hypothalamus or the the hangry center. And if there's an imbalance between those two, then perhaps it'd be helpful, potentially theoretically helpful in anorexic of which the incidence of anorexia and men is increasing significantly.

0 (1h 38m 57s):
As you're telling me this, I'm remembering being 14 or 15 years old and I would go into the kitchen sometimes and I was so hungry I would just obliterate all the food. And I do remember being, I've always been a pretty high energy guy, but having immense amount of energy. I don't, can't recall if it was a hangry feeling or not, but I'm guessing that was growth hormone. I grew one foot in a single academic year. Yes. So I imagine that was at least in part due to growth hormone. In any case, somar is is the peptide that I hear most often about. I admittedly tried a run of it. I was researching a book and decided to take it before sleep on an empty stomach. It gave me a tremendous depth of sleep.

0 (1h 39m 38s):
But that sleep was really truncated, which is his nerd speak for saying deep. But short sleep, I would wake up after very intense dreams. I can't say that it helped me recover from exercise that much. I didn't notice any additional fat loss or anything sort of abandon it except for occasional use. Again, this was prescribed by a doctor. You know, I I was trying to get the sense that these, these peptides and their effects are, are somewhat vague and distributed and highly individual. Is that a fair way to, to describe them?

2 (1h 40m 6s):
Part of the problem with the effect of peptides is many people take them in levels that are far above the physiologic range. Even individuals who are checking their IGF one while they take these different GH p, most of them do not check the binding peptides. For example, IGF binding peptide one, two, or three and their free IGF one level might be significantly different. So the a common doses that people will take these off label for as a supplement are often much greater than the therapeutic or physiologic range,

0 (1h 40m 46s):
Which for me just underscores the fact that it's pretty precarious. I mean I, I'm not coming in here as the referee of what anyone should or shouldn't do, just trying to gather and distribute information. But it, I've heard for instance that some of companies where people can acquire these things without prescription, they, those companies are not good at cleaning out the l, the lipi polysaccharide, the LPs which can cause an inflammatory response. In other words, these are dirty compounds and that just sounds risky. It just sounds, frankly, it just sounds really dangerous to me.

2 (1h 41m 17s):
LPs is a common additive in many companies that are not pharmacies, but they're selling things that people often use as human consumption. One interesting note about lipopolysaccharide is your gut microbiome actually makes a lot of of it as well, especially Prevotella, which is a specific species that can have to do with your baseline body temperature. So your baseline body temperature might also change depending on if you're on a peptide that has LPs in it.

0 (1h 41m 48s):
Yikes, yikes and yikes. But I tend to be pretty conservative when it comes to taking anything exogenous, but I do rely on many of the supplements that we talked about earlier. And I do try and optimize the behavioral things and nutritional things for a long time. Okay, so then leaving peptides behind, we are now, I suppose in the territory of exogenous hormone. So let's say that somebody decides they're not concerned with fertility or they're gonna bank sperm or they already have kids or they're going to defer on this issue of wanting to have kids. My understanding is that nowadays a lot of people are using testosterone, let's not even call it replacement therapy cuz some of these people have 600, 700 or even you know, 800 nanogram per deciliter reads.

0 (1h 42m 32s):
So they're not replacing anything that is diminished, they're just trying to augment what's already there, increase what's already there. My understanding is that taking a low dose more frequently is gonna be more beneficial than the kind of old school way of giving, you know, a hundred or even 200 milligrams in a single injection once every two weeks. Is that right? And and what do you do with your patients? So let me give you a hypothetical. Somebody comes into your office, they do their blood work and they have blood levels of let's say 600 nanograms per deciliter. Testosterone, their estrogen is also in normal range. Everything else checks out. But they're complaining of, you know, slightly diminished libido, slightly poor recovery from workouts, maybe you know, reduce motivation and drive, although no major depression.

0 (1h 43m 18s):
And you come to the conclusion that testosterone therapy, not replacement, but testosterone therapy might be a good option to explore. What's a typical dosage range and frequency of administration range that you might consider exploring.

2 (1h 43m 33s):
And some of this depends on the S H B G and free testosterone as well. So if that same individual had a very high S H B G, which again is the binding protein that binds up the testosterone in all androgens and estrogens, if it is extremely high and they have a free testosterone of two, then they might need a different dose because they need enough testosterone in order to have a normal yugen free testosterone. But a general normal dosing range, especially for someone starting is around 100 to 120 milligrams divided over the course of a week. Usually either every other day or three times a week, occasionally twice a week.

2 (1h 44m 13s):
Many people with S H B G a bit higher can get away pretty easily with twice a week. This is assuming that the Esther Isy eight or an anate.

0 (1h 44m 21s):
So two 60 milligram injections of testosterone, eight per week.

2 (1h 44m 25s):
Yeah. Very common dosing to

0 (1h 44m 27s):
Hit that 120 milligrams per week as kind of the typical average.

2 (1h 44m 30s):
Correct. And I would consider this a, like a physiologic yugen adult dose. For many people, even 200 milligrams a week is far above the reference range. All of this is said with the caveat that testosterone is normally released in a pulsitile manner. So it's high in the morning, low in the evening. Whereas if you're on testosterone therapy then you are going to have a steady state. So your testosterone level is gonna be pretty much the same even in the evening.

0 (1h 45m 1s):
And in your experience when patients do that they, I'm guessing they report the normal constellation of positive effects, you know, improved mood, improved energy, improved sleep recovery, et cetera. What are some of the hazards or things that can crop up in blood work or just subjectively that can be warning signs that even a dosage of 120 milligrams divided into these two or three dosages per week can is too high

2 (1h 45m 25s):
Every organ system in the body. So this is when you really have to be at least well-versed in every organ system. Not just the gonadal like you know, genital system. You need to have, you know, dermatology prowess, acne is very common change. Lots of different skin pathologies or even bruising can be related to hormone replacement. Hair loss is very common to see as well. Mental status changes. It could in occasionally it even induces a manic or a bipolar episode because testosterone is also dopaminergic and then cardiovascularly not just in the heart, but also concerns for like microvascular ischemic disease, ferritin buildup because the estrogen also increases and then fertility concerns as well and lipid concerns too.

2 (1h 46m 16s):
So you really have to be, you know, hematologist, dermatologist, cardiologist, lipidologist, the whole nine yards.

0 (1h 46m 25s):
So another reason or set of reasons rather to, if one is considering using testosterone therapy to really do this in close communication with a really good physician. Cause that's a lot to monitor. Knowing whether or not you have acne or not is one thing, but knowing whether or not your LDL is going up, your A O B is going up, that's a whole other biz and that needs to be done through blood work is what I'm hearing.

2 (1h 46m 47s):
Correct. And if your physician that is managing or prescribing your testosterone therapy or your H R T is not well versed in these systems, you would want him or her to be part of an interdisciplinary team where they have other experts that can monitor those systems.

0 (1h 47m 4s):
I skipped over a sort of still intermediate set of things, prescription drugs, but maybe talking about testosterone first was a bit of a mistake on my part because I'm aware that there are actually, I think there are companies but certainly groups out there that say, no wait, don't go straight from nothing to supplements to testosterone Once you're doing behaviors and optimizing nutrition supplements. Let's forget peptides, instead of going straight to testosterone therapy, one idea that many people are pursuing is to take the prescription drugs that trigger luteinizing hormones. So take taking H C G human chorionic gonadotropin, which my understanding is we'll increase testosterone but also estrogen or they'll take things like Klonopin.

0 (1h 47m 48s):
In fact, I think there are a bunch of companies out there now that are saying don't take testosterone, it shuts down, spermatogenesis shuts down testosterone production. Klonopin is the way to go. Maybe you could educate us about the H H C G monotherapy, I think it's called, where you're just mono one just taking H C G and Klonopin as a and or Klonopin as a tool to ratchet up hormones.

2 (1h 48m 13s):
So quick points on H C G, human Corona Tropin made during especially the first trimester of pregnancy, it has effects other than binding to the LH receptor, it also binds to the tssh receptor in the thyroid.

0 (1h 48m 27s):
A thyroid simulating hormone.

2 (1h 48m 29s):
Yes, in fact, if you look at a molecule of H C G and thyroid stimulated hormone, they're extremely similar. However, you need a relatively high dose of H C G to bind to the tssh receptor. This is the normal mechanism in pregnancy that accounts for the increased need of thyroid hormone, usually about 30 to 40%. So that's why if someone has hypothyroidism need to increase their dose of thyroid because the HCGs not gonna be doing it for you. The Clomid or Klonopin, there's two main, I believe it's DI stereo isomers and one of them is in Klonopin, one of them is Zoo Klonopin. And these two work slightly differently in Klonopin, I believe has a faster half-life and it is potentially slightly better tolerated.

2 (1h 49m 17s):
However they were studying it. You know, CH Clomid is a very commonly prescribed drug and obviously there is plenty of in Klonopin, in Clomid. However, the drug which was and Rol A N D R O exhale did not go all the way through the FDA approval process despite Clomid being FDA

0 (1h 49m 36s):
Approved. Okay, so there's Clomid, which contains Klonopin, but there are also, cuz we're talking about men hor male hormone optimization. This episode, there are males out there who want to increase their testosterone and other hormones, maybe growth hormone, et cetera, who opt to not take exogenous testosterone. So no cream, no pellet, no no pill, no injectable sippy eight, but decide to take Klonopin a couple times a week. My understanding, I've never done this. I would say, if I had, my understanding is that taking Klonopin, maybe two 50 milligram tablets a week is what I hear people are doing will increase what lutin hormone, the various estrogen receptor subunits.

0 (1h 50m 20s):
Could you explain how Klonopin would benefit anyone? And is this a good strategy? I'm, I'm hearing that it's being done quite a lot now.

2 (1h 50m 26s):
It will increase testosterone in a dose dependent manner, but it has many other pharmacodynamic effects, which is the effect of the drug on the body other than its effect on the hypothalamus and the pituitary. So in the hypothalamus and the pituitary, it does what's called negative feedback inhibition or it, it blocks the oxygen of estrogen. So it crowds out estrogen from the estrogen receptor on the hypothalamus in the pituitary.

0 (1h 50m 55s):
And what's the subjective effect that that would cause? So to my understanding and experience of estrogen is that if I ever took, and I did take a very low dose of an aromatase inhibitor once, and I felt terrible, actually reduced libido joints fell achy. That's when I discovered that wow, estrogen is actually really important for your brain function, for joint function and for libido and suppressing estrogen for me turned just turned out to be the, the wrong idea. But my levels indicate that it's within reference range. Okay, so why would I want to take something that would increase the activity of an estrogen receptor? I just can't find the rationale for that.

2 (1h 51m 33s):
The main rationale behind taking a serum is as a very temporary measure that is not going to suppress pituitary or hypothalamic function. If your testosterone is just so drastically low that it is unlikely to recover Anya anyway. So most of the time it is not clinically useful and serum should not be prescribed very often, certainly not as long-term testosterone replacement or testosterone optimization. In most individuals there's always exceptions to everything, but there's five different estrogen and estrogen related receptors. There's two main estrogen receptors and Clomid and every serum has a very unique profile because they selectively inhibit some receptors in some tissues, but not other receptors in other tissues.

2 (1h 52m 26s):
For example, Clomid can inhibit receptors that are in the eye and it can cause visual changes, blurry vision, especially at higher doses. And it also acts in every other tissue of the body. So side effects from Clomid and other selective estrogen receptor modifiers are very common.

0 (1h 52m 48s):
Hmm. So I'm, at least by my mind, I'm gonna p pool them with peptides and say it sounds precarious and probably not ideal for most people. Going back to testosterone therapy, then again, notice folks have deleted the replacement part because I think so many people are using testosterone therapy without the need to, the sort of reference range need to, to replace anything, but rather are building on what they already have for purposes of increasing vitality, et cetera. Going back to that, my understanding is that taking H C G several times per week can help maintain sperm pathogenesis and fertility even while people are on testosterone. But, and you and I were talking about this earlier, that there's tremendous variation.

0 (1h 53m 31s):
Some people will take a small amount of testosterone and just crush their sperm count. They just won't make any viable sperm. Other people can maintain viable sperm production while on testosterone, especially if they're taking, taking H C G, is that right? Correct.

2 (1h 53m 45s):
And there's many reasons for this. Some of this has to do with heat damage to the testes. So potentially cold therapy could be helpful for that. And

0 (1h 53m 54s):
Ice baths, cold showers. Yeah. Or just avoid and and certainly avoiding sauna, avoiding hot tub. Yeah,

2 (1h 53m 60s):
Yeah, yeah. Stopping the daily hot tub can restore fertility. And many people,

0 (1h 54m 4s):
I know a number of of people that are trying to conceive children that go into the sauna and they'll just put a cold pack in their shorts or between their legs depending on whether or not they're wearing shorts or not when they go in. Or they'll alternate ice and heat in a way that maintains coolness of the, the, the milieu in which the, the sperm live. In other words, they're cooling their scrotum deliberately in order to avoid killing the sperm. Actually I saw an interesting paper that said that for every two degree increase in temperature of the scrotum, there's a 20% decrease in in spermatogenesis and and viability of sperm.

0 (1h 54m 45s):
And that actually, if you look at the difference between people who stand a lot, sit a lot and drive a lot, what you see is a progressive decrease in sperm count that because when people are sit sitting, there's an increase in temperature and then when they're sitting on the hot seat of the car, there's an, or using the, the heated seats actually it kills sperm. I think they're good data on that.

2 (1h 55m 4s):
Yeah, excellent data And anecdotally heat as well. I've had several patients come in for fertility consultations and all we do is like, you know, no medications, no supplements. We change their like several lifestyle things. Ano tight fitting, very tight-fitting. Clothing is another one. And soon they have fertility and they're no longer they, they have sperm, whereas before they did not.

0 (1h 55m 31s):
Interesting. I'd like to talk about some of the dos and don'ts, but we have talked about a lot of dos, things that one can do to optimize hormones. Maybe we could just do sort of more rapid fire q and a on some of the don'ts and maybe throw in some signs where you feel it's appropriate. Cannabis, marijuana, thc, yes or no. It diminishes testosterone levels,

2 (1h 55m 57s):
Smoked cannabis. I would say diminishes testosterone increases prolactin, that's a no Other cannabinoids not particularly harmful.

0 (1h 56m 5s):
So C B D

2 (1h 56m 7s):
Cbd, not particularly harmful. Smoked. C b I'm not sure

0 (1h 56m 12s):
What about edible cannabis and thc?

2 (1h 56m 15s):
As far as I know, edible cannabis and THC does not significantly increase prolactin to a point where it would be disruptive of hormones.

0 (1h 56m 24s):
Can marijuana, thc, cannabis, whatever you want to call it, increase gynecomastia, the growth of male breast tissue?

2 (1h 56m 31s):
Yes, it certainly can. And there's a, a pretty good association between smoked THC and gynecomastia.

0 (1h 56m 38s):
What about nicotine and testosterone and estrogen and other hormones Smoked nicotine?

2 (1h 56m 45s):
Nicotine is particularly concerning not only for testosterone but also for estrogen. Part of it is if you're talking about nicotine from tobacco, there's many other carcinogens in it, especially if it's smoked, but nicotine, even if it is chewed in a dose dependent manner. So if you can use an extremely small amount of nicotine, then it's not as concerning in the long run. But it's a vasoconstrictor and one of the main concerns with it would be cardiovascular disease or even microvascular ischemic disease that can lead to neurodegenerative disease. So like a type of dementia that can be partly due to nicotine. If you use nicotine for a very long period of time, especially at a higher dose, it's a dose dependent effect on your hormone profile.

0 (1h 57m 33s):
Is that also true for nicar and nicotine? Other nicar nicotine gums

2 (1h 57m 37s):
At high doses, if you can use an extremely low dose of a nicotine gum, then theoretically that would be, you know, maintainable. It's not gonna overload the nicotinic receptor. You have acetylcholine and the cholinergic system is one of your, you know, main nervous systems of course, and you have muscarinic receptors and nicotine receptors and there's just better ways to optimize your nicotinic receptor activity. For example, acetylcholine precursors like alpha GC phosphoryl, sine phosphorylcholine, weak acetylcholinesterase inhibitors, especially natural ones potentially have a like a part as well.

2 (1h 58m 17s):
And then other alkaloids, so nicotine is an alkaloid from the tobacco plant. There is other plants like cytosine and the, that genus of plants and that alkaloid is also a nicotine receptor agonist.

0 (1h 58m 33s):
Is it true that cycling for too long, literally bicycling sitting on a a bike seat too long can damage the prostate?

2 (1h 58m 42s):
Yes, it can be very concerning, especially if you're seated bicycling, especially if you're putting a lot of pressure on the perineum. Your core is kind of like a box where your diaphragm sort of makes the top and your abs and Cerus make the front and the sides, your back muscles make the back and then your pelvic floor makes the bottom of the box, which is arguably the most important part of your core. And that pressure can weaken and even lead to incontinence and impotence.

0 (1h 59m 14s):
So we were talking earlier today in the gym about how heavy legwork, hack squats, dead lifts, those kinds of things a lot of guys are doing to increase their testosterone done correctly, can actually augment and build up the strength of the pelvic floor done incorrectly, can actually weaken the pelvic floor and lead to all sorts of issues including sexual effects, negative sexual effects. So how does one go about learning whether or not their movements are being done properly to support pelvic floor or to destruct pelvic floor?

2 (1h 59m 45s):
The pelvic floor is a constellation of muscles just like any other kinda like system in the body. And you know, form is important if you're doing the Valsalva maneuver, which again is that kind of like bearing down or deep breath where you feel all of your abs are tight. You can also notice that your pelvic floor is tight as well. If you have a history of a an inguinal hernia, which is a hole kind of like connecting the abdominal cavity down through the pelvic floor or even the scrotum in some cases, then that can be a sign that there is weakness in that area and you might have to concentrate on it most or even have a physiotherapist or a physical therapist specifically target the pelvic floor, many exercises in which you valsalva or use your glutes or legs, you can learn to squeeze them and have that mind muscle connection in order to help build up the pelvic floor.

2 (2h 0m 42s):
And there's other things many people are familiar with, kegels, that is just one of the many different exercises that can help your pelvic floor.

0 (2h 0m 49s):
My understanding is that while strengthening the pelvic floor is good, excessive contraction of the pelvic floor can actually limit blood flow to the pelvic area, the penis and so forth. So this is, again, it's a double-edged sword, right? I mean you don't want guys out there to just start doing endless number of key goals every day. No. Because they're actually gonna constrict blood flow to that area, right? There's a Yeah. And in fact the, the erection response is para parasympathetic, it's a relaxed induced response, right? Correct. So you know for the, the reason I chuckle is that you know, for cuz we're talking about things we don't have visuals or charts and, and certainly it's hard to know whether or not a given exercise like Kegels are gonna be good or not good if it's excessive what, you know, how many sets and reps does, does it take before it goes from from good to bad?

0 (2h 1m 35s):
Is there a kind of general rule of thumb for people to think about this? I mean clearly blood flow to to that area is key, right? For sexual performance and yet when one trains the legs or even walks you're getting blood flow. So my understanding is this, that a combination of weight training to stimulate the positive hormonal and muscular and connective tissue growth is key provides not over-training but so is casual exercise like walking and stretching and the sorts of things that will then return blood flow to that area, is that a overly basic way to think about it or will that suffice?

2 (2h 2m 10s):
I think that's a good way to think about it. I think the main point with Kegels is there just a one of many different things. So if you're having some pelvic floor pathology certainly or even just concerned about your pelvic floor, don't just, you know, take the advice, do key goals and you'll be okay. That is not near enough. It's just one of the many aspects.

0 (2h 2m 32s):
Okay, so going back to the rapid Q and A and then we'll come back to this issue of blood flow cuz there's some interesting science and protocols there. Question I have is alcohol, does it increase aromatase, the enzyme that converts testosterone into estrogen or not? And is there a dose dependence there?

2 (2h 2m 49s):
It significantly does. There is a dose dependence in general, I would not recommend more than three to four, you know, standard drinks, one huge glass of wine is probably five standard drinks. Ah yeah. But I'd say every two weeks,

0 (2h 3m 8s):
Yeah that's consistent with what I discovered researching alcohol and episode we did on alcohol that no alcohol is definitely better for all aspects of health than any alcohol. And anyone that says that, well red wine contains these various things well it doesn't contain enough of those positive things to have a positive effect. But that if people do opt to drink alcohol, that two drinks per week and meaning 20 grams of alcohol. So that's probably two 12 ounce beers or two, you know four ounce glasses of wine is going to be the upper limit beyond which you're gonna start seeing all sorts of negative effects.

2 (2h 3m 42s):
The other thing to keep in mind with alcohol is has a lot of calories, seven kilo calories per gram almost as much as fat, which is nine and then it's also very GABAergic so it it, it can activate inhibitory neurotransmission and that can also affect how many, how much LH and FSH is released. So that can also decrease testosterone almost kind of similar to how opiates can decrease testosterone.

0 (2h 4m 11s):
Yeah, I feel very lucky that I don't enjoy alcohol. Never really did can kind of take it or leave it certainly don't like sedatives like Valium or anything like that, which as you just mentioned can suppress testosterone. You said the word fat, so I'm gonna pick up on that and say in order to optimize hormone production, is it important to have some saturated fat in one's diet and what happens on very low fat diets to testosterone, estrogen and and other steroid hormones?

2 (2h 4m 40s):
Fat's interesting because there's so many different beneficial fats. Omega three s, almost every American gets plenty of omega six s in any developed country really when it comes to saturated fat there is more of a correlation with hormone optimization. If you're eating things with saturated fat, you tend to have, those are things with more, you know, fat soluble vitamins and things that are very nutrient dense otherwise, but it is not vital in general you want to eliminate any trans fat unless it's trans fat from the ruminants there's always an exception to everything. Right? So there is healthy trans omega-3 fats which are formed in the stomach of like grass fed and finished ruminants

0 (2h 5m 24s):
But ingesting mostly olive oils, maybe nut butters in, in limited amounts cuz they're very calorie dense. But unless people are trying to increase their calories, in which case they're a great source of calories, small amounts of butter or GH probably. Okay, but not excessive amounts, is that the

2 (2h 5m 41s):
Idea? Correct, yes. Fat is perfectly fine. Cholesterol has an interesting, so cholesterol and in general phospho lipids make the bilayer that's around the cell but cholesterol is also a hormone in and of itself because it binds to the estrogen related receptor alpha. So I consider that like in the estrogen receptor category and that can help with metabolism but also potentially have concerns for cancer and tumor risk.

0 (2h 6m 9s):
I wanna go back to the prostate and talk to you about something that's kind of a newer emerging trend. I know that you've talked to a little bit about this in previous podcasts that a number of men, or I should say a number of physicians are prescribing low dose to Dyl, also known as Cialis to their male patients. So in dosage ranges of like 2.5 milligrams to five milligrams per day, but not for erectile dysfunction but rather for improving prostate health and presumably they get sort of a boost in terms of blood flow to the genitalia as well. But again, not specifically a deal with erectile dysfunction but to deal with prostate health and blood flow to the prostate, is that something that you sometimes often prescribe to your patients and of what age?

2 (2h 6m 55s):
Tad lfl is a very underrated medication. The age would kind of depend on the indication. So tadalafil is also a blood pressure medication. It can vary slightly decrease blood pressure, especially at higher doses. At higher doses at thera a high dose would be 20 milligrams, not 2.5 milligrams, but consistently it can somewhat affect with the cones in the eye that have to do with red and green sight. Although if you remove it that effect is reversed. So basically if you don't need really, really good red green discrimination, you can take higher doses. But in general I recommend no higher than 10 milligrams a day, usually just two or five milligrams.

2 (2h 7m 37s):
One other benefit or other use of tadalafil is that it increases the density of the androgen receptor similarly to elk carnitine. So that's an interesting benefit. Another benefit is that if you give it to people with nocturia, which is urinating at night in general, it will cut the episodes in half. So it could go from two to one, which can make a big difference for your sleep, which will secondarily make a big difference for your growth hormone and testosterone optimization.

0 (2h 8m 4s):
Interesting. So you said 2.5 to five milligrams per day is kind of typical for these prostate enhancing effects? Yes. Right. And you mentioned the potential side effects on adjusting visual perception as a vision scientist that rings in my mind, but in terms of red green color discrimination, I'm guessing unless you're gonna be a subject in one of the experiments in my lab or you wanna be a fighter pilot, chances are you can probably get away with a little less red green color discrimination.

2 (2h 8m 30s):
Correct. It's not considered clinically significant unless someone is a commercial pilot. Great. So, so if someone's getting their like pilot exam, that's one of the things we look

0 (2h 8m 39s):
For. Okay. So commercial pilots aside, you might want to ask your doctor about low dose to DYL for sake of enhancing prostate health. Certainly monitoring psa, prostate specific antigen is important. I can give an anecdote there. When I tried smolin, one of the surprising side effects that was not welcome was a dramatic spike in my prostate-specific antigen. No one could explain to me why that would happen, but when I stopped taking summin it went back to normal. So that's one reason I avoid summin. At least frequent use of smolin PSA should be kept. What below levels of, you know, somewhere between one and four is considered healthy, is that right?

2 (2h 9m 18s):
It depends on the age. If there's a 20 year old likely between zero and one, if there's a 40 year old likely between one and three and then if there's an 80 year old, it would not be abnormal to have a PSA of five and have that be well within the reference range. Right. Another thing we should mention about PSAs, if you do take a five alpha reductase inhibitor like Finasteride or dutasteride, often these will cut your PSA in half. So if you, for example, if you have a PSA of six and you start Finasteride or dutasteride and then you recheck it in six months and it's 6.5, that is a huge concern because that's actually doubled.

0 (2h 9m 57s):
I'm glad you brought this up because I almost overlooked the fact that I get a lot of questions about drugs to offset hair loss. Most of those drugs are going to operate through the D H T system, the dihydro testosterone system for the reasons we talked about before. D H G receptors being on the scalp and causing beard growth on the face. Is it the case that a number of people taking things like Propecia and other things to block the D H T or disrupt the D H T pathway are going to experience diminished sex, drive diminished, you know, kind of motivation and general vigor and if so, so are there alternatives like topical DHT antagonists that they might use if they want to keep their hair but not have those negative effects?

2 (2h 10m 43s):
The way that I think about hair loss is you have your fertilizers and also known as growth agonists and then you have your anti-androgens whether there's systemic or topical, there is both, but that's the general layman's way to think about hair loss. If you're only putting fertilizer in your hair but you have androgenic alopecia, male pattern baldness, then those hairs will still miniaturize and eventually you'll still have loss.

0 (2h 11m 6s):
Such a great word, miniaturize. Yeah, it's enough to send anybody off to find a therapeutic. Right. And

2 (2h 11m 12s):
By the way, it's difficult to tell if miniaturization is happening unless you have a magnifying glass you can use that. I

0 (2h 11m 18s):
Almost didn't know for a second there. I didn't know whether or not you were making a joke. You're talking about miniaturization of the hair follicle. Correct. So what can reverse that miniaturization? That's just a fun word to say. I'm gonna just keep saying it.

2 (2h 11m 27s):
Each individual has, again, we mentioned the androgen receptor. Males only have one androgen receptor genus on their X chromosome. So depending on how sensitive that androgen receptor is, and depending on the density of the receptors in the hair follicle, you can have a arbitrary threshold and you don't know what the threshold is until you start to have miniaturization and loss of hair. But over the threshold the follicle will die and eventually the stem cell will leave. But under the the threshold, you're okay. Every androgen binds to the same androgen receptor. So there is nothing special about D H T D H T is just a stronger androgen.

2 (2h 12m 10s):
So the higher your S H B G things that increase S H B G are beneficial for hair loss prevention because you have less binding of that receptor. So if you think about hair loss specifically androgenic or male pattern baldness in the terms of that androgen receptor and everything in general binding to it, not just D H T but also testosterone, it's helpful, it's just that D H T is a huge battering ram whereas the other androgens are just light presses on the

0 (2h 12m 37s):
Door. Got it. So are some of the topical D H T receptor antagonists going to be a better choice for people that want to maintain or their hair grow more hair if they want to avoid side effects?

2 (2h 12m 51s):
Likely. So some individuals benefit from systemic, a systemic decrease in D H T for a couple reasons. One could be prostate and then one could actually be hypertrophy of the myocardium. So D H T also disproportionately thickens the ventricle. So for someone on T R T that might be a benefit that is prone to thickening of the ventricle at baseline, however many people that have just a bit of predisposition they can use things that are topical anti-androgens. Ketoconazole is one of them. Caffeine is actually another one. Wait,

0 (2h 13m 27s):
Drinking caffeine,

2 (2h 13m 28s):
Topical

0 (2h 13m 28s):
Caffeine. Oh, I was gonna say my hair tends to go pretty fast. So maybe the that, but I drink a lot of caffeine. So topical caffeine really rubbing coffee on their head. Yes. Or or taking caffeine tablets. And how does it wait, you have to explain how this works. How do people get caffeine into the hair follicle?

2 (2h 13m 45s):
Topically the caffeine enters the scalp and crowds out, like somewhat crowds out the androgen. It is a weak effect. It's likely just strong enough to be clinically significant. Usually caffeine is put into formulations with other things like ketoconazole that are also weak anti-androgens of notes. Spironolactone can be prescribed topically, but is it is absorbed systemically because the size of the molecule. So unless your doctor specifically prescribes that for you, especially as a male, do not use topical spironolactone. Topical finasteride is also a smaller molecule, so it is also systemically absorbed, but it is not extremely well systemically absorbed.

2 (2h 14m 27s):
If you take topical finasteride, then usually your systemic D dht will decrease by about 30%. Topical dutasteride is likely a tiny bit systemically absorbed, but it's unique because it's half-life is much faster at a lower dose. So topical dutasteride will not affect your systemic dht at all. And I've seen this anecdotally on many people on topical dutasteride therapy. Okay,

0 (2h 14m 51s):
We're gonna have to get you back on here to do an episode all about D H T and hair loss. And hair growth is, you know, again, not a topic that I focus on a lot for myself, but that I get a lot of questions about for men and women.

2 (2h 15m 3s):
One thing that we could mention, I got a ton of questions about turmeric and curcuminoids after last episode.

0 (2h 15m 9s):
Oh yeah. But I had reported my own anecdotal experience that taking turmeric really crushed my D levels and I did not feel good. I mean it crushed all sorts of positive feelings of vitality. The moment I stopped taking turmeric felt great again.

2 (2h 15m 25s):
Many people report this and the interesting thing about turmeric is most of its beneficial action, not all of it. Some people benefit from systemic turmeric and some people that can tolerate it well, it's actually great for the prostate, but most of the action, it does not need to be bioavailable. It acts on the gut microbiome. So you can take turmeric and if it is not absorbed, some turmerics is put in special formulations like my cellar or liposomal or complexed. But a lot of it is put with black pepper fruit extract, which is also known as bio purine, which is actually also a five alpha reductase inhibitor and it affects liver cyros. And so many supplement companies put this black pepper fruit extract, bio purine and almost everything.

2 (2h 16m 9s):
So some people are on really high doses and that could also be making most of the effect of people who, who do not tolerate turmeric well.

0 (2h 16m 18s):
Yeah, I avoid turmeric like the plague based on that one previous experience cuz it was clearly turmeric that caused the effect, the negative effect coming off it. Everything reversed rapidly and the bio purine, the black pepper extract, I also avoid that like the plague based on everything you just sent. I want my five alpha red reductase. I want my D H T to be optimized simply because my understanding is D H T is the more powerful androgen and it's the one that, yes, it causes a little bit of hair loss and I've got a few, you know, patches here and there, but I'm willing to live with that based on all the other wonderful things that D H T optimization does.

2 (2h 16m 57s):
I'll quickly mention a few other things. One, Saul Palmetto is also a five Afro reductase inhibitor, but only a couple of the ISO enzymes. There's three main ISO enzymes and a lot of the problem is that your inhibiting a couple of the ISO enzymes, but not the other one. Finasteride inhibits one and two, Dutasteride actually inhibits all three. And Finasteride inhibits the ISO enzyme that is in genital skin but not in the skin throughout the rest of your body. So a lot of the side effects of finasteride, which is loss of sensation and loss of erectile function, have to do with the disc concordance between the sensitivity of the genital skin and the skin.

0 (2h 17m 41s):
Again, another reason to not disrupt five alpha reductase. And we'll definitely get you back on here to talk about d I think we should just do a whole episode about d H dht because so often when people are thinking about optimizing hormones, especially male males trying to optimize their hormones, they're thinking testosterone, testosterone, maybe nowadays they think a little bit more about free testosterone and maybe they think about estrogen is also being important not to crush estrogen. But D H T is, you know, at least to my mind, the linchpin of so many of the things that subjectively people are really focused on libido, motivation drive, et cetera. I have one final question. It's just a brief one, but many of us have heard that the BPAs that are present in, you know, plastic bottles and even in certain aluminum cans and phthalates a difficult word to pronounce, but a fun one nonetheless, phthalates and work by Dr.

0 (2h 18m 28s):
Shayna Swan has shown that phthalate ex exposure to the fetus, to pregnant mothers and to fetuses very likely is negatively impacting sperm counts, testosterone levels, and even changing genitalia size for the worse in males nowadays. I saw a beautiful lecture that Dr. Shawan did on this when I was in Copenhagen, and it's very clear that it's negatively impacting the male fetus. She was also on Joe Rogan's podcast. I hope to get her on this podcast. However, what she couldn't answer for me was whether or not Phalates and BPAs and these things present in plastics and some people when claiming tap water are bad for males after they're born and after puberty.

0 (2h 19m 9s):
What are your thoughts on, or I should just ask you, do you drink water out of plastic bottles? Do you avoid drinking out of cans that are not specifically non BPA containing cans? And do you actively avoid thalates? My understanding is that thalates are most enriched in pesticides and that's why you're seeing dramatic drops in in sperm and testosterone levels, mainly in rural areas where they're dust cropping.

2 (2h 19m 32s):
Yeah. So I do avoid drinking out of cans that, or plastics that may have BPA or bisphenol A in them. Bisphenol A is known to bind to what I would consider the fifth estrogen receptor, estrogen related receptor gamma. So it, I would, I would consider it a xeno estrogen. So phytoestrogens are estrogens from plants and in general they're not concerning or clinically significant and xenoestrogens are just other estrogens. So I do avoid BPA and I also test my water. I use a water testing service and I test it both after it's through my water filter and the tap water that my two boys drink almost every day.

2 (2h 20m 16s):
And it was very interesting. I only found one microplastic just a bit over the reference range, so it wasn't a terrible tap score. But even in developed countries, these are widely variable as far as ate, again, very difficult and interesting to pronounce, but I remember learning about these because there was, I believe, a lawsuit that had to do with mac and cheese and this was probably five years ago and I was coming up with my list of each provider that does obstetrics has a list, what to avoid for the pregnant lady, you know, sketchy deli meats or high mercury fish like swordfish and salmon.

2 (2h 20m 57s):
And I actually added processed mac and cheese to that list.

0 (2h 21m 1s):
Interesting. Well thank you for that. I'm going to extract your statement that you avoid drinking outta plastic bottles when, when possible, I'm guessing you're not neurotically attached to that. If you were dying of thirst, you might, you know, crack a plastic bottle of water to survive. But listen, Kyle, Dr. Gillette, thank you so much. You gave us an enormous wealth of knowledge. Everything from behaviors to psychology to supplementation to prescription drugs. We will make sure to point out where people can get ahold of you on Instagram and on Twitter and and on other websites in our show note captions. But really just on behalf of the audience and, and just for myself, thank you so much.

0 (2h 21m 42s):
You have an immense amount of knowledge and you're exquisitely good at sharing it with people in an actionable way. So thank you.

2 (2h 21m 48s):
My pleasure.

0 (2h 21m 49s):
Thank you for joining me today for my discussion with Dr. Kyle Gillette, all about male hormone optimization. And I just want to remind everybody that we will soon have an episode all about female hormone optimization. If you're learning from and or enjoying this podcast, please subscribe to our YouTube channel. That's a terrific zero cost way to support us. In addition, please subscribe to the podcast on both Spotify and Apple and on both Spotify and Apple. You can leave us up to a five star review. If you have questions for us or comments about the podcast or guests that you'd like me to interview on the huberman Lab podcast, please put those in the comments section on YouTube. We do read all the comments. In addition, please check out the, the sponsors mentioned at the beginning and throughout today's episode. That's the best way to support this podcast.

0 (2h 22m 30s):
If you're not already following Huberman lab on social media, we are huberman Lab on all platforms. So that's Instagram, Twitter, LinkedIn and Facebook and all of those places. I describe science and science related tools, some of which overlap with the contents of the huberman Lab podcast, but much of which is distinct from content on the huberman Lab podcast. So again, it's Huberman Lab on all social media platforms. During today's episode and on many previous episodes of the huberman Lab podcast, we discuss supplements. While supplements aren't necessary for everybody, many people derive tremendous benefit from them for things like sleep hormone augmentation and focus. If you'd like to see the supplements discussed on various episodes of the huberman Lab podcast, please go to live momentus.com/huberman.

0 (2h 23m 11s):
We partner with momentus because they are extremely high quality. They ship internationally and they formulated supplements in the precise ways that are discussed as optimal to take for various outcomes. Here on the huberman Lab podcast, if you haven't already subscribed to the huberman Lab podcast newsletter, it is a monthly newsletter that includes summary of podcast episodes as well as toolkits, all of which are completely zero cost. All you have to do is provide your email to sign up. We do not share your email with anybody. You do this by going to huberman lab.com. Go to the menu and tab down to newsletter, provide your email, you'll get a confirmation link. Click on that link and you'll receive our monthly newsletters. And you can also access any of the previous newsletters that we've released, including the toolkit for Sleep for fitness, deliberate cold exposure, and so on by going to huberman lab.com.

0 (2h 23m 59s):
Going to the menu, going to newsletter, and there you'll see those as immediately downloadable PDFs. Thank you once again for joining me for today's discussion about male hormone optimization with Dr. Kyle Gillette. And as always, thank you for your interest in science.