0 (0s):
Welcome to the Duberman lab podcast, where we discuss science and science-based tools for everyday life. I'm Andrew Huberman, and I'm a professor of neurobiology and ophthalmology at Stanford school of medicine. Today, I have the pleasure of introducing Dr. Matthew Johnson. Dr. Johnson is a professor of psychiatry at Johns Hopkins school of medicine, where he also directs the center for psychedelic and consciousness research. As many of you know, there is extreme excitement about the use of psychedelics for the treatment of various disorders of the mind. Dr. Johnson's laboratory is among the premier laboratories in the world, understanding how these compounds work, how things like siliciden and LSD and related compounds allow neural circuitry in the brain to be shaped and change such that people can combat diseases like depression or trauma or other disorders of the mind that caused tremendous suffering.

0 (56s):
Dr. Johnson is also an expert in understanding how different types of drugs impact different types of human behaviors, such as sexual behavior, risk taking and crime. Dr. Johnson and his work have also been featured prominently in the popular press, such as articles in the New York times and Michael Pollan's book. How to change your mind and in a feature in 60 minutes about psychedelics and the new emerging science of psychedelic therapies for treating mental disorders during the course of today's conversation, Dr. Johnson and I talk about psychedelics at the level of what's called dosing, whether or not it is useful for the treatment of any mental disorders. We also talk about more typical macro dosing, what those macro doses entail, and he walks us through what an experiment of a patient taking psychedelics for the treatment of depression looks like in his laboratory from start to finish.

0 (1m 47s):
The conversation was an absolutely fascinating one for me to partake in. I learned so much about the past present and future of psychedelic treatments and compounds. And indeed, I hope to have Dr. Johnson on this podcast, again, in the not too distant future so that we can talk about other compounds that powerfully impact the mind and human behavior, and perhaps can also be used to treat various diseases before we begin. I'd like to emphasize that this podcast is separate from my teaching and research roles at Stanford. It is however, part of my desire and effort to bring zero cost to consumer information about science and science related tools to the general public in keeping with that theme, I'd like to thank the sponsors of today's podcast.

AG1 (2m 28s):
Our first sponsor is athletic greens. Athletic greens is an all-in-one vitamin mineral probiotic drink. I've been taking athletic greens since 2012. And so I'm delighted that they're sponsoring the podcast. The reason I started taking athletic greens and the reason I still take athletic greens once or twice a day every day is because it covers my foundational nutritional needs. It has the vitamins I need the minerals I need, and the probiotics are important to me because there is now so much data about the importance of the so-called gut microbiome, maintaining healthy gut bacteria, and the ways in which those gut bacteria impact things like inflammation and keeping inflammation down in the brain and body, as well as supporting things like quality mood, endocrine function, metabolic function, just so many factors. The great thing about athletic greens is that it also tastes very good. I mixed mine with water, a little bit of lemon juice. And as I mentioned, I drink that once or twice a day. If you'd like to try athletic greens, you can go to athletic greens.com/huberman. And if you do that, you'll get the athletic greens. Plus you'll get five free travel packs. The travel packs make it very easy to mix up athletic greens when you're on the road in the car, on the plane, et cetera, and you'll get a year supply of vitamin D three K two. There's now a lot of evidence that vitamin D three and K2 are important for various aspects of metabolic health, cardiac health, and so forth. So once again, that's athleticgreens.com/huberman to get athletic greens, the five free travel packs and your year supply of vitamin D three and K2

Inside Tracker (3m 55s):
today's podcast is also brought to us by inside tracker. Inside tracker is a personalized nutrition platform that analyzes data from your blood and DNA to help you better understand your body and help you reach your health goals. I've long been a believer in getting regular blood work done. And now with the advent of quality DNA tests, you can get a lot of information about your genetics and how that also impacts your immediate and long-term health. The reason I'm such a fan of getting blood work done is that it is really the only way to understand what's going on in your system at a level that can really inform your decisions about your immediate and long-term health. The problem with a lot of blood and DNA tests, however, is that you get numbers back about your hormones and your metabolic factors, et cetera, but you don't know what to do with that information with inside tracker, they have a very easy to use dashboard that gives you that information and then gives you some suggestions and directives about things you could change about your nutrition, about your exercise and other lifestyle factors that can help you move those numbers in the direction that's best for you and for your health. If you'd like to try inside tracker, you can go to inside tracker.com/huberman to get 25% off any of inside trackers plans just use the code Huberman at checkout

Belcampo (5m 6s):
today's podcast is also brought to us by Bel Campo. Bel Campo is a regenerative farm in Northern California that raises organic grass fed and finished certified humane meats. I eat meat about once a day in general, my lunch or my breakfast consists of some meat. And that meat has to be a very high quality, and generally I'll eat some vegetable as well. And then I tend to eat pastas and rice and things of that sort later in the day or in the evening in order to facilitate the transition to sleep. So I'm eating meat about once a day. And I always insist that the meat that I eat be of the very highest quality and that the animals were raised and maintained humanely while conventionally raised animals are confined to feedlots and eat a diet of inflammatory grains, Belle, Campos animals, graze on open pastures and seasonal grasses resulting in meat. That's higher nutrients and healthy fats. In addition, they raise their animals in a way that's not just better for our, but also has a positive impact on the environment. They practice regenerative agriculture, which means the meat is climate positive and carbon negative. So you can feel good about what you're eating at the environmental level. And for sake of your health, you can order a bell campus sustainably raised meats to be delivered to you by using my code Huberman at belcampo.com/huberman and entering my code Huberman to get 20% off your first time order, I'm partial to the rib-eyes or the New York steaks. So on one day I might have a ribeye. The next day I might have a New York steak. I also really like the meatballs. I'm a particular fan of the meatballs. So again, that's bell kempo.com/huberman and enter the code Huberman at checkout to get 20% off your order.

0 (6m 39s):
And now my conversation with Dr. Matthew Johnson, well, Matthew, I've been looking forward to this for a long time. I'm a huge fan of your scientific work, and I'm here to learn from you

1 (6m 51s):
Likewise, big fan and happy to do this with you

0 (6m 54s):
Very well. Thank you. My first question is a very basic one, which is what is a psychedelic. We hear this term all the time, but what qualifies a substance to as a psychedelic

1 (7m 6s):
Nomenclature is a real challenge in this area of psychedelic. So starting with the word psychedelic, it just, if you're a pharmacologist, it's, it's not very satisfying because that term really spans different pharmacological classes. In other words, have you really concerned about receptor effects and the basic effects of a compound? It spans several com classes of compounds, but overall, so it's really more of a, a cultural term, or it does have a relationship to drug effects, but it's at the, at, at a very high level. So all of the so-called psychedelics across these distinct classes.

1 (7m 51s):
Then I can talk more about the way I put is they all had the ability to profoundly alter one sense of reality, and that can mean many things. Part of that is profoundly altering the sense of self acutely. So when someone's on the psychedelic, so the different classes that can be the specific pharmacological classes that can be called a psychedelic are one, the, what are called the classic psychedelics. So in the literature, you'll see that term and hallucinogen and psychedelic are all have traditionally been used synonymously. I think there was a little bit tendency to stay away from psychedelic because of the baggage, but there's been a return to that in the last several years, but the classic psychedelics or classic hallucinogens are things like LSD psilocybin, which is in so-called magic mushrooms.

1 (8m 47s):
It's an over 200 species that we know of so far of mushrooms dimethyltryptamine or DMT, which is in dozens and dozens of plants Mescalin, which is in the payoti cacti. And some other cacti like San Pedro. And even amongst these classic psychedelics, there are two structural structural classes. So that's the chemistry, there's the tryptamine based compounds like siliciden and DMT. And then there's the phenethyl ethylamine based compounds. So these are the basic two basic building blocks that you're starting from either a tryptamine structure or a phenethyl amine structure, but that's just the chemistry, the, all of the what's more important, or at least to, to someone like me are the receptor effects.

1 (9m 36s):
And then ultimately that's going to have a relationship to the behavioral and subjective effects. So all of these classic psychedelics serve as agonist or partial agonists at the serotonin two way receptor. So subtype of serotonin receptor, then you have these other classes of, of, of that you combat that you could call psychedelic. Now the big one would be the in MDA antagonist. So this would include ketamine, PCP, and dextromethorphan, something I've done some research with which folks might recognize from like robo tripping, guzzling, like, you know, call syrup, which is something kind of like high school kids are known to do, and they can't get ahold of real drugs, that type of thing.

1 (10m 17s):
So a large overlap in the types of subjective effects that you get from those compounds compared to the two way agonists classic psychedelics. But then you have, and by the way, this description, this framework I'm describing, not everyone will agree. Some people will say no. Psychedelic only means classic psychedelic. So there's different opinions here, but you have, gosh, salvinorin a, which is a Kappa opioid agonist, which again, is that come from salvia divinorum, it's a plant of became 20 years ago. It sort of popped onto legal high scene. And there's a long history of this.

1 (10m 58s):
You predating the internet going back to like the stuff on gore in the back of high times magazine. And most of this stuff like never worked, you know, it's like the smoke enough of anything. Maybe you get a little bit lightheaded, but this is one of those things that popped around 20 years ago when it quickly got the reputation like holy shit, this stuff actually works and works really strongly in these smoked extracts. Particularly people have these reality altering experiences on par with smoked DMT, the classic psychedelics so often. And we did the first blinded controlled human research with salvinorin a, so lots of entity contact. So feeling that you in the experience of one is actually interacting with autonomous beings, that type of thing.

1 (11m 45s):
And then you have another big one. I probably should have mentioned even before the, you know, salvinorin a, but you have MDM which really stands in a class by itself. So it's been called an Intacct a gin. And, and what does that mean? It means like touching within it sort of alludes to the idea that it can really put someone in touch with their emotions. It's also been called in, in pathogen and it can, it can afford empathy, but I think entactogen is probably that's the term that I, I tend to focus on. And I know I'm not telling you anything you don't know, but the, for the, for the viewers, th th the primary mechanism of MTMA is serotonin release and to a degree other monoamine released opening serotonin.

1 (12m 33s):
And so structurally that's also in the Finastra Lamine class, which contains Mescalin the classic psychedelic, but also amphetamine. So just, you know, like Adderall is, is, is in that phenethyl meaning class. And so this is another example where chemistry doesn't dictate. I mean, you can tweak a molecule, it might have that same basic structure, but now you've profoundly changed the way it interacts with the receptor. So in MTMA does not, you know, exert its actions by. I like to say by, by, by, you know, mimicking the baseball, entering the glove, the post synaptic receptors side, you know, acting as an agonist.

1 (13m 17s):
So mimicking the, the, the, the endogenous neurotransmitter serotonin, like the classic psychedelics do MTMA works on the pitcher side of just basically throwing out more of the natural, the indogenous pumping more surrogate to be more serotonin flooding.

0 (13m 35s):
Yes. So I get the impression that this psychedelic space is a enormous cloud of partially overlapping compounds, right? Meaning some are impacting the serotonin system more than the dopamine system. Others are impacting the dopamine system more the than the serotonin system, given that the definition of a psychedelic is that it profoundly alters sense of self. At least that's included as a partial definition. Can we break that down into a couple of sub categories? So for instance, hallucinating are either auditory or visual synesthesia, perceptual blending, the sense that, you know, you can hear colors and see sounds for instance, a common report of people that take psychedelics in sufficiently high doses.

0 (14m 26s):
So hallucinating, synesthesia, and then in terms of sense of self, you know, as a neuroscientist, I think, okay, what does it mean to alter a sense of reality? Really what the brain does in a very coarse way is to try and figure out what's happening in space, physical space, and that physical space could be within us or outside us, and what's happening in time. Right. And as a vision scientist, the simplest explanation is when I moved my hand from one location to another location, it's measuring the space, the location of my hand in space over time. And then you get a rate and a speed and all that kind of stuff. Right? Yeah. That gets more complicated.

0 (15m 7s):
You get into the emotional realm, but is it fair to say that psychedelics are impacting the space time analysis that the brain is performing and thereby creating hallucinations and thereby altering, you know, the blending of senses? Is it fair to say that

1 (15m 28s):
I think it's, it's fair to explore that area and here here's what I'm thinking. The, the clearly there is a change relationship, certainly at the right dose of orientation in space time. I think as a, as a, you know, I'm primarily a behaviorist and in terms of Pharmaca human, behavioral pharmacology, and I always go to comparative pharmacology, okay, what can we say that, is it truly unique about the classic psychedelic or psychedelics in general? So with that description, I'm thinking, okay, alcohol can really screw up your, you know, time-space orientation,

0 (16m 5s):
Reception, your balance, reassess,

1 (16m 7s):
Tubular, you know, and, and many ways. And so in those gross motorways, like far worse, you know, of course everything's dose dependent, but from the classic psychedelics, you know, obviously the benzodiazepines being very similar apple, same thing. So, you know, I'd want to, you know, dig in a little more in terms of like, maybe there's something more specific we could say about that relationship to time and space that the psychedelics are tinkering with, but I'm not sure it's an interesting hypothesis that the idea that that's a mediator, that, that that's something that there's something fundamental about changing that the representation in time and in space, there might be something to that.

1 (16m 49s):
I think of these as is psychedelics is profoundly altering models. You know, you know, we're all, you know, we're prediction machines and that's large. So much of that is, is top-down and, and, and psychedelics have a good way of, you know, loosely speaking, dissolving those models. And, and one of the,

0 (17m 13s):
Can you give us an example of one of like a model, like, like I know that when I throw a ball in the air, it falls down, not up, that's a, that's a prediction that I learned as a child. I did not come into the world with a brain that knew that relationship between objects and gravity. But one of the first things that a child learns is the relationship between objects and gravity and their trajectories. Yeah.

1 (17m 41s):
And with a four-year-old, I mean, I saw that at earlier ages like that experimentation of like, oh yeah, that's what happens, you know?

0 (17m 48s):
Right. So if

1 (17m 50s):
He were to throw a ball, if your child were to throw a ball and it went up into the sky, that would be absolutely mind blowing. It would be for an adult too. It'd be a pre psychedelic experience

0 (18m 0s):
Probably. Right. And so there's a, there's a, there's a rule there. You're saying there's a kind of a, a prediction. There's a rule that, that underlies a prediction that when that rule is violated, all of a sudden, the circuit, presumably for that prediction go life, it doesn't have a mind of its own, but somehow it, it creates a surprise element or a, or a,

1 (18m 23s):
And it's not filtered out, you know, and this might sound extreme, but there are these cases, it was over overblown and sort of the propaganda, the late sixties, early seventies. But there are credible cases of people it's very atypical of sounds like they really thought they could fly and, you know, jump out of a, of a window now, far more people every year, fall. I mean, who knows, you know, they, they fall and die out of, you know, from height because they're drunk, you know? So this is extremely rare, but, you know, there are some like pretty convincing cases.

1 (19m 3s):
There was one research volunteer in our studies that it, she looked like she was in one of our studies. Like she was trying to dive through a painting on the wall. She was fine, but she reviewing the video, it looked like she really thought that she was going to go through that painting. And so she was the other dimension. Yes.

0 (19m 29s):
So the violating these predictions. Yeah. I, the reason I ask it, the, the question, the way I did is because given the enormous cloud of different substances and given the range of previous experiences that people show up to a psychedelic experience with, I feel like the ability to extract some universal themes is, is useful, especially for people who haven't done them before, right. Who might not have an understanding of what their effects are like, can we just briefly touch on the serotonin system and the dopamine system? I want to acknowledge it as you already know that there are many neuromodulator systems in the body and, you know, the system's cannabinoid systems, but there's something so profound about the serotonin system and the dopamine system, because the way I define a neuromodulator is it's a modulator.

0 (20m 20s):
It changes the way that other circuits behave in, essentially it, it increases the probability that certain circuits will be active and decreases the, probably the other surgeons will be active in, in a, in a general sense. So compounds like LSD eye surgery, gossip, diaphragm, mind. And siliciden my understanding is that they primarily target the serotonin system. How do they do that at a general level? And why would increasing the activity of a particular serotonin receptor or batch of serotonin receptors lead to these profoundly different experiences that we're calling model challenges, challenging pre-existing models.

0 (21m 4s):
And yeah, I mean, at the end of the day, it's a chemical and these receptors are scattered around the brain with billions of other receptors. What do we think is going on in a general?

1 (21m 17s):
Yeah. Yeah. And this is really the area of active exploration, and we don't have great answers. We know a good amount about the receptor level pharmacology, some things about post receptor signaling pathways. In other words, just fitting into the receptor clearly, you know, serotonin itself has not psychedelic, you know, or else we'd be tripping all of us all the time.

0 (21m 39s):
I need a bagel, I get serotonin release. Right. I mean, there's, <inaudible> right. But my understanding of serotonin is that in very broad strokes, that it generally leads to a state of being fairly. It pushes the mind and body towards a state of contentment in the immediate experience. Whereas the dopamine system really places us into an external view of what's out there in the world and what's possible. Yeah. Is that

1 (22m 7s):
They do something. I mean, that's consistent with my understanding and, and, and, and Al certainly not in terms of, I don't primarily identify as a neuroscientist, definitely tell the, you know, the viewers that were far more in your demo domain here than mine, but in terms of how psychedelics and other drugs, you know, interface at the, at the neuroscience level,

0 (22m 29s):
Feel free to, to explain it at the experiential level. And it doesn't have, I think prob there probably are some audience members that are interested in is that the five HTC is at the layer five neurons in cortex, that conversation we could hold. And that's an interesting conversation, but just in terms of the experience of serotonergic versus dopaminergic drugs. Yeah. They, they do seem to create distinct classes of experience. So I think that's, that's the right level for us to discuss them

1 (22m 58s):
And in terms of how they, and I like, I'd like to explore the biology a little bit here and tell you like, sort of what's known and what some of the ideas are, please, you know, have this path, you know, as, as you know, like, you know, these are levels of analysis and it's not which one is going on. It's almost like for the particular question, which level of analysis is most appropriate to, is it, you know, is a question best addressed by the biology, the, the, the chemistry or the, or the physics. I, that's how I think of like receptor level, post receptor signaling, downstream effects on other other neuro-transmitters and then, you know, activation level effects and then coordination of activation. So you've got the clearly the, with the classic psychedelics, the two way activation, we, we do know that there are downstream effects in terms of increasing glutamate transmission.

1 (23m 48s):
So this is likely a commonality. Why, you know, ketamine is very psychedelic in slightly different way, but if people hallucinate on academy, yes, yes. It's more dissociative. So someone is more likely to sort of be less behaviourally active. If they have a really high dose, they go into a K hall. And if they go in a really high dose, like you can call the whole conscious yeah. Not an a-hole, but a K hole and very different. The K hole ketamine is interesting. Cause people can take kind of bumps and kind of dance on it with the sort of an alcohol level strength of a effect. And that's sort of the class that kind of raving, you know, use of it. But then those folks want to titrate their dose because if they do more of like a line, you get up to like 7,500 milligrams, then you're talking about, you know, if you're on the dance floor you're on, on the floor and your friends are trying to make sure people aren't stepping on you.

1 (24m 43s):
So that's like,

0 (24m 43s):
Yeah, why would somebody want to take a dissociative anesthetic? It like, to me, it's completely mysterious as to why someone would want to dissociate from their body people

1 (24m 54s):
Claim that these, these, the, these in MDA antagonist, psychedelics are extremely insightful, you know, in a very similar way to the experiences with the classic psychedelics. So, and ketamine

0 (25m 6s):
Is now legal for therapeutic. Right?

1 (25m 8s):
Right. <inaudible> the, the, the, the intra-nasal form marketed by Janssen, which is S ketamine is one of the yeah. It's prescription and,

0 (25m 19s):
Or taking in the nasal spray. Yeah. And then are they undergoing talk therapy while they're

1 (25m 24s):
Typically not? So it's, it's this very interesting and there's so much work that needs to be done. It's not treated as psychedelic therapy. And by that psychedelic therapy, I mean, you tell the person they're going to have an altered experience. You tell them to pay attention to that experience. They might learn something from that experience. And afterwards you discuss that experience with <inaudible>. The model is provato is, is S ketamine. It's the, the, yeah. The, the spray form of ketamine that's, it's been FDA approved for treatment resistant depression, but it's, you'll, you'll probably feel different. Ignore that that's a side effect. That's an adverse effect.

1 (26m 5s):
Just ignore it. We don't think that has anything to do with the way it works, but just get this thing. It's, it's a direct, you know, sort of chemotherapeutic effect in a sense it's, it's, it's not facilitating a learning process. Now there's older work. There was a guy Karpinski in Russia that did extensive work with higher doses of ketamine. I should say, <inaudible> at the prescribed doses. Isn't very safe. It's a pretty low dose. It's in the mild psychedelic range, but it's not very strong, but this older work that happened in the nineties and early two thousands, and in Russia, they were using very high doses and treating it like a psychedelic, treating it as if it was a psychedelic therapy.

1 (26m 48s):
In other words, telling people, you're going to have this experience. It's going to, you know, we're hoping you learn something from it. We're going to help you through it. We're gonna discuss it afterwards. And they found incredibly high rates of success and some pretty well controlled trials for both heroin addiction and alcohol addiction. So I think a whole lot of work needs to be done now. And you see some of the ketamine clinics that are using ketamine. Off-label a lot of them, are you treating it like psychedelic therapy? There's essentially no research at this point on that. Do you get better results, straight abusive? <inaudible>, there's some good variability, but its antidepressant effects lasts about a week. But the kick in immediately now a week is a long time for like most, most psychiatric drugs.

1 (27m 33s):
Like you'd take it every day. Right. You know, so that's amazing, but it's still just a week. We're seeing effects, you know, a year or more later with, with, with psilocybin and, and some of the classic psychedelics that could be a pharmacological difference or it could be that they get a lot more mileage out of ketamine if they treated it like psychedelic therapy. And so that's some, so what would that look like? Really just like our, our siliciden, you know, sessions, which I know I haven't described, but briefly you have anywhere from four to eight hours of preparation, getting to know the people who are going to be the guides or the therapists in the room.

0 (28m 8s):
Yeah. Maybe you could walk us through this. So let's say I were to come to one of your clinical trials because these are clinical trials. Right. And in your, at your lab at Hopkins and would I need to be depressed or could I just be somebody who wanted to explore psychedelics?

1 (28m 23s):
We've had studies for all of these and a number of other disorders. So healthy, normal studies, the code for not a problem to fix, but we're all here. That's, what's amazing about psychedelics though, because if you administer them under this model and you develop a relationship and give a high dose of a psychedelic, you can be a healthy, normal without a diagnosable issue. But man, we're all human and the issues seem to come to the surface. So, but we've done work with a smoking cessation. So people trying to quit tobacco and haven't been successful override.

0 (28m 53s):
We have reasons. So maybe I'll just ask some very simple questions that would kind of step us through the process. So let's say I were to sign up for one of these trials and I qualified for one of these trials, I'd show up. You said I would do several hours in advance of getting to know the team that would, that would be present during this psychedelic journey first

1 (29m 12s):
Screening. So it's kind of like a couple of days of both psychiatric like structured psychiatric interviews about your whole, your, your, your past and symptoms across the, the DSM, the psychiatric Bible to see if you might have various disorders that that could disqualify you. Like the main ones being the psychotic disorders, schizophrenia. And we're also including bipolar. So the manic side of, of bipolar. So, so after that's, and also cardiovascular screening, heart disease, after that screening, then the preparation where you get your, both, you get, you develop a therapeutic rapport with the people who are going to be in the room with you, your guides, but you're also then didactically sort of explained about what the psychedelic could be like.

1 (29m 56s):
And that's kind of a laundry list because they're more known by their variability. Then, you know, it's gonna, it's not like cocaine. Like you're going to feel stimulated. You're gonna feel like, you know, you can do any it's like, you know, or alcohol, you're gonna probably going to feel more relaxed. It's like, I call them uppers, downers and all arounders and the psychedelics of all around us. It's like, yeah, you could be, you could have the most beautiful experience of your life or the most terrifying experience of your life. So it's this kind of laundry list of like the things that could happen. So there's no surprises.

0 (30m 30s):
I think it's so important for people to hear because the all arounders, they, the, you really can't predict how somebody is going to react internally. I want to just briefly touch on something because we, we left that topic, but it occurred to me that a lot of these effects of psychedelics and how they function, et cetera, is still very mysterious. But then I recall to mind that how most prescription antidepressants work is also very mysterious, they increase serotonin or dopamine or epinephrin et cetera, but why they take weeks on an, you know, several weeks to kick in, et cetera is also mysterious, but going back to the, the, the experience of, of coming to your laboratory.

0 (31m 11s):
Okay. So let's say that somebody passes all the prerequisites and the, and it's the day comes. It comes the day that they're going to have this experience. Are they eating mushrooms like you hear about, or are they taking it in capsule form? And how, what sorts of doses are you prescribing? Is there a dose response curve? And then secondary to that, I'd like to talk about micro dose versus macro dose. So how do they get this stuff into, how do people receive it and how do they get it into their body,

1 (31m 47s):
Pure psilocybin. So the mushroom, and there are many species, the most private people have taken mushrooms in the United States. It's it's most likely, so lots of be cubensis, they're easy to grow. They grow in Cal patties. It's easy for any body to grow them in their closet. It doesn't take a, a thousand watt light like cannabis. It takes like a little 10 watt light bulb and a Tupperware bin. So those are what, those are the types of mushrooms that people typically take. We're not administering those psilocybin is the compound. You could draw a molecule psilocybin again, based on the tryptamine structure. Like that's a single molecular entity. So it's a white powder.

0 (32m 26s):
Does it look like serotonin molecularly? Yes,

1 (32m 29s):
Yes. Yes.

0 (32m 31s):
I looked at it. If I were to show people the chemical structure of serotonin, the chemical structure of psilocybin, it would look quite similar.

1 (32m 37s):
Right, right. And they're basically taking

0 (32m 39s):
Serotonin

1 (32m 40s):
It, a modified version of serotonin, which makes sense. But then again, this repeated theme of the chemistry, doesn't always neatly line up because like, Mescalin looks more like a, like dopamine than it does, like serotonin, but yet it at the receptor activation level, the pharmacologic neural pharmalogical effect it's those are similar. But, but yeah, I mean, and what it does at the receptor is an alternate it's, it's, it's hitting the same switch, but then having an alternate response at the receptor.

0 (33m 14s):
Well, so for people that don't necessarily understand the relationship between what we call ligand, the thing that parks in the receptor and the receptors, the parking spot, one of the reasons that you can get such a variety of effects from different compounds is for instance, serotonin might affect a certain pathway at a particular rate and silicide, and might trigger activation of different components of that pathway, different rates. Since you can have vastly different experiences from two things that look chemically similar, this is also a good reason why people shouldn't just assume that they can cowboy their own chemistry, right. That what you see on paper and what you can mix up in a while is often vastly different than what you predict.

0 (33m 58s):
Right?

1 (33m 59s):
And there's a dose effect curve. That's really interesting. Some of our early work with psilocybin in healthy normals looked at a true placebo plus four active doses, 5, 10, 20, and 30 milligrams of psilocybin body weight adjusted. So, you know, those milligrams per 70 kilograms of body weight, we've recently published a paper in our newer trials where we're dropping the body weight adjustment, cause are going across hundreds of volunteers. We've kind of figured out that, that you shouldn't really be, you don't need to be adjusting by body weight. So

0 (34m 33s):
Yeah. Well, brain size doesn't vary that much between individuals. Yeah.

1 (34m 38s):
Yeah. You

0 (34m 39s):
Know, the end, this is a brain effect. Mostly probably body as well. Okay. So the person ingests the powder. Yeah,

1 (34m 48s):
Well, yeah. And 30 milligrams is a small, he could fit it into a tiny little capsule and it'll take about a half hour, but anywhere from 15 minutes to an hour to kick in and

0 (35m 1s):
Dose range was,

1 (35m 4s):
Most of our studies are looking at where we, we want a psychedelic effect or in the 20 to 30 milligram range again, because we have adjusted by body weight. And the average American has over 70 kilograms, about 150 pounds like people. And in fact have gotten more like, you know, 40, 45 and a lot of cases, but it's still a small pill there. The session day itself is not full of, for most of our studies is not full of tasks. We really want to look at the therapeutic response. Obviously, if it's a therapeutic study, we want it to be a meaningful experience. And a research has found not surprisingly that you get a less meaningful experience when you're in an FMR eye or when you're doing a lot of cognitive tasks, we've done some research on, you know, of that type for sure.

1 (35m 57s):
And plenty of colleagues have, but when you're in a therapeutic study, or if you're trying to understand the therapeutic effects, you have to recognize there's this, this, this trade-off of what you can do. So our typical therapeutic model, which again, isn't just limited necessarily to the therapeutic studies where we're trying to treat a specific disorder is, is to have that preparation. So you're, the person feels very comfortable with their guides. I mean, ultimately what I tell people is like any emotional response, it's all welcome. I mean, you could, you could be crying like a baby hysterically. Like that's what you should be doing if that's what you feel like. And so in a lot of ways, then as people with psychedelic experience on their own, it can be harder to train them in this model because in the real world, people with psychedelic experience, a lot of times the rule is, you know, hold your shit.

1 (36m 49s):
So, you know, several friends go to the party, they split a bag of mushrooms. It's like, you know, there's a social pressure for good reason, not to be the guy, you know, in the corner of the room where everyone's trying to just have a good time relax, like crying about your mother, your other friends, or they're having an experience too. And you're being a drama king and blah-blah-blah, and so like, compose yourself, hold your, you're doing.

0 (37m 13s):
I mean, you're doing therapy for people. This is, it's not just about the experience.

1 (37m 18s):
And the experience of self is very much shaped by, by that, that container by the environment and the degree to which one allows it to happen. Like once you let go of control.

0 (37m 29s):
Yeah. Let's talk about the letting go of control. And then as we March through this hypothetical experience, that does take place in your lap lab. So we're using a sort of generic case example, if you will, the letting go of control is an interesting feature actually, because one of the common themes of, of good psychoanalysis is, or psychotherapy of any kind is that there's a trust built between the patient and the analyst. And that relationship becomes a template for trust more generally and trust in oneself. It's actually the end goal of good psychoanalysis is that the patient actually one of the end goals is that they develop an empathy for themselves, which almost sounds like an oxymoron.

0 (38m 11s):
But if you spend a little time with that statement, it actually pans out. So the psychedelic experience is one in which chemically, you're under a new new set of conditions, right? Let's coarsely space and timer are altered in some way, sense of self. For instance, I might be going to a strongly interoceptive mode where I'm focusing on everything within the confines of my skin. Whereas normally we're sort of interacting in space and pens and conversation. And I'm sorry if I had occasionally I'll pay attention to my breathing, but I'm sort of dilating and contracting my focus for different things all the time. The letting go of control.

0 (38m 53s):
It seems to me could be sort of the expansion of one perceptual bubble to the point where you're not actually worried that that perceptual bubble is going to pop or that meaning you're not worried about what people think of you. Yeah. You're not worried whether or not your brain is going to explode, even though a thought could feel enormous. If I keep going like this, it almost sounds psychedelic, but that's the idea here. Or if I'm paying attention, for instance, to some somatic experience like the, the coursing of waves of heat through my body, that I'm not suddenly saying, you know, is that weird? I'm actually just going deeper and deeper into it.

0 (39m 33s):
So it's essentially expanding or perceptual phenomenon. How do you convince people to go further and further down that path? What do you think allows them to do that? Because I think that that to me is one of the more unusual aspects to psychedelics is that normally the social pressure, but also just our internal pressure from our own brain is pay attention to many things at once. Not just one is that

1 (39m 59s):
Essentially these days. Yeah, exactly

0 (40m 1s):
Tasks multitask. And the more that we focus on one thing, the more bizarre that thing actually can appear to us, right? I mean, even if it's the tip of your finger and you're not taking any psychedelics, you spend a long enough looking at the tip of your finger, you will notice a very weird,

1 (40m 16s):
Right. That's I think if that is the classic psychedelic effect or one classic effect and, and one I've used many times of this example of why people should necessarily, you know, these aren't, these one should be judicious in putting themselves in these circumstances. Someone could be, you know, having a very strong psilocybin experience and they're trying to navigate their way in Manhattan, crossing the street. And they might be staring into the hand and real like that's their hand is the most amazing miracle. Like the entire universe has essentially conspired to come to this one point to make this absolutely breathtaking.

1 (40m 58s):
It's almost like I think of the simplest form of, of, of, well, we know that the simplest form of learning is habituation. Simply keep applying stimuli. And there's less response like this is what organisms do. This is what we have to do. And it's like, there's this disc habituation component. That light is habituation. We wouldn't be able to get through life, but we wouldn't be able to cross that street. If we were like, whoa, like this is a miracle.

0 (41m 20s):
Well, no, I'm so glad you brought this up. I mean, here, I'm reflecting my bias as a vision scientist, but most people don't realize this, but if you look at something long enough, it eventually disappears to it. It doesn't actually disappear, but perceptually, it disappears. You have these little micro cycads that ensure that it doesn't. But most of us don't look at any one thing for very long, right? The, the brain's default is to perceptually jump around like crazy with the visual system, with the auditory system. We all add that when people talk about add a law is sort of baked into our underlying networks at some level, and then we have, we can force attention, but it sounds like on psychedelics, the, one of the primary goals therapeutically is to really drill into one of these perceptual bubbles and expand that bubble.

0 (42m 5s):
And the safety, it seems is the safety. It's sort of like a permission to do that without worrying that something's going to happen.

1 (42m 14s):
Right. Because you know, I've had people there on the couch. Yeah. I remember one lady said this is probably 13, 14 years ago said, Matt, tell me again, I can't die. Like, I feel like my heart is going to rip through my chest. I mean, she was feeling, and I should say, typically cardiovascular response is, is modest. The, the pulse and blood pressure go up somewhat. It can be dangerous for people if they're at severe heart risk. And we do monitoring, we do

0 (42m 44s):
Measure into a variety

1 (42m 45s):
Of devices. So every half hour or so, we take their on protocol and we, you know, space it out a little further, further into the time course, but we take their blood pressure and their Pauls. And if it goes over a certain level, we have a protocol and we've had to do it's only a few times, but the physician comes in, gives them a little nitroglycerin under the tongue and, you know, knocks the blood pressure down a little bit. Doesn't affect the experience. So we have it all in place, even though they'd probably be fine out of an abundance of caution. Sure. But, but yeah, but someone can feel that I got I'm going to die. Like I have never felt my heart beat like this before. And like the experience of the breath can be just, you know, absolutely fantastic.

1 (43m 27s):
And this sort of, and the breath is obviously interesting because it's this auto automatic, you know, control, but it could also be voluntary. So people get into a sense of like, oh my God, what if I forget? It sounds silly. Like we

0 (43m 40s):
Breathe. Exactly.

1 (43m 42s):
But people that can be so compelling. And so one of the REITs and get back to one of your questions, it's like, what do we do to kind of allow them to go further into these bubbles? It's one is, is wearing the eye shades. We don't call them blindfolds. Cause that has a negative connotation. Like,

0 (44m 0s):
And they're probably seeing a lot in there anyway. So blind isn't the appropriate.

1 (44m 4s):
Right, right. That's I've never thought of it. These should be like inner sight shades.

0 (44m 9s):
But when you close the eyes, the levels of activity in the retina actually are maintained. It's spontaneous. It's just spontaneous activity.

1 (44m 16s):
And it seems, and I'd be curious about your thoughts on this. I mean, but the way I describe it is that the, you know, the minds, I mean this kind of loose term we use can be on rocket booster. So a lot of times, for some people like a compound, like psilocybin, for some people, there's no perceptual effect. Like if they're looking at this room, we would pre pretty much look the same. Sometimes folks like, yeah, things seem a little bit brighter. Now, some people will say, oh my God, there's waves. That wall was waving. And these curtains that, you know, on these compounds people don't typically see pink elephants. You do actually get that in another class. I didn't mention the, the anticholinergics sort of like atrophying and cupola mean those drugs.

1 (44m 59s):
Those are the, those are the true hallucinations where you thought you were having a conversation with someone who was never there.

0 (45m 7s):
Well, we will definitely get to those. But when the reason I kind of created vision is like, oh my, when you talked about those, is that knowing a little bit about the pharmacology of acetylcholine? The, the idea of manipulating that system to me sounds very uncomfortable because like the whole idea of witches and flying, there was a whole history there, you know, hundreds of years ago, so-called, which is taking these agents and then thinking they were flying around on broomsticks and things of that sort. And there's a lot of mythology around the broomsticks. It's complicated, but, but that sounds very unpleasant. One thing I, I, about the, the serotonergic let's just for, with siliciden.

0 (45m 49s):
So there's an expansion of a particular, fairly narrow percept. It could be, sound, could be an emotion, could be sadness, could be a historical event or a fear of the future. And you've mentioned before that there's something to be learned in that experience. There's something about going into that experience in, in, in an, in an, in an undeterred way that allows somebody to bring something back into more standard reality. Yeah. Given the huge variety of experiences that people have on psychedelics, given the huge variety of humans that are out there, but what are now very clear therapeutic effects in the realm of depression, what do you think is the value of going into this fairly restricted perceptual bubble?

0 (46m 42s):
What we are calling, letting go or giving up control, because if the experiences are many, but the value of what one exports from that experience is kind of similar across individuals that raises all sorts of interesting questions. And this is not a philosophy discussion. We're talking about biology and psychology here. So let's say, I decide, I'm going to focus on the tip of my pen. I mean, in a psychedelic state, I could fall in love with this pen. I do happen to like these pilots <inaudible> very much, but I could feel real love yeah. For the pen. Yeah. Right. That's not an unreasonable thing to expect on a psych in a psychedelic journey. Right. And then the context of your laboratory model, which I think is a great one, that experience will be just as valid as me going into the experience of some of the deep friction that I might have with a family member over my entire lifespan.

0 (47m 34s):
And yet the export from that those two very vastly different experiences is one of feeling, a better relationship to the world into one cell, right? What

1 (47m 44s):
Does this tell you? How the pen and the processing your childhood trauma both lead to?

0 (47m 50s):
So what does this, I mean, at that level, it raises this question, like how, first of all, how, why, I mean, or just, what are your thoughts on that?

1 (48m 0s):
This is definitely in the, this is in the terrain we're figuring out, you know, so there's no educated speculations the best I can provide, but I, I think the best th th th the, the Mo I think the common denominator are persisting changes and self representation.

0 (48m 21s):
Okay. Tell me more about self representation. That's

1 (48m 25s):
The way one holds the sense of self, the relate, the fundamental relationship of a person in the world. I mentioned earlier that these experience seems to alter the models. We hold a reality. And I think that the self is the biggest model that I am a thing that's separate from other things. And that's why I am defined by certain, I have a certain personality and I am a smoker. That's having a hard time quitting, or I'm a depressed person that, you know, views myself as a failure and all of these things. Those are models too. And I take, I think that change in self representation may be an endpoint for these different experiences. I mean, maybe the falling in love with the pen, the whole idea that you're, especially in contemplation afterwards, and obviously I'm speculating here, but the whole idea that you could have such a deep connection with this random, obviously random aspect of, of the universe could potentially lead to this, you know, transformed understanding of the self.

1 (49m 27s):
And like the pen may be a proxy for the, the miracle of reality in a way that the realized nothing on, I know supernatural thinking, you know, you can be a hard atheist and take this and ultimately, oh my God, like that, just like the pen, this is, you know, th this is amazing the fact that we exist in, so you could, there could be an extrapolation chair and you use the pen, but I think it sounds as similar to all this Huxley's classic description and the doors of perception of the chair and the drapes, like he took 500 milligrams of masculine. He was just like a high dose

0 (50m 1s):
Of Moscow.

1 (50m 2s):
Yeah. And that's, and, you know, that's a heroic dose for sure. And he just going off on the cherry of the chair, like this chair is exuding the quality of being chair.

0 (50m 13s):
And you said this expansion of the perceptual bubble, a narrow, a narrow, a percept that then grows within the confines of that narrow percept. So sense of self is a very interesting phenomenon. If we could dissect it a little bit, there's the somatic sense of self. So the ability to literally feel the self into this process, we call interoception. And then there's the, the, the title of the self. The, I am blank. And I noticed you said that several times, and it's intriguing to me about a good friend. I don't think I can or should mention his name, but he had a very long and successful career within one of the more elite teams in, within the seal teams.

0 (50m 54s):
And he, he's a fairly philosophical guy, also very practical guy, but he has said many times to me that the most powerful words in any language are I am, because whatever follows that tends to, if you repeat it enough, tends to have this kind of feedback effect on the, on how you are in the world and it, the first pass, it, it all, it sounded to me a little bit like, you know, kind of like internet psychology type thing, like the secret or something you said, which frankly, I'm just not particularly I'm. Yeah. If you, you kind of like the whole fake it till you make it, like, I don't actually subscribe to any of that, but in dissecting that a little bit further with him, I came to realize that, that these words I am are very powerful.

0 (51m 41s):
I don't think you reprogram your brain just by saying them, but how one defines themselves internally, not just to other people, but how we one psychologically and by default in defines themselves, I think is a very powerful, like, and depressed people, as well as happy people seem to define themselves in terms of these categories of emotional states. So I think it's, it's so interesting that letting go and going into this perceptual bubble, which is facilitated by obviously a really wonderful team of therapists, but also the serotonergic agent allows us to potentially reshape the perception of self that's.

0 (52m 23s):
That's a tremendous feat of neuroplasticity, right?

1 (52m 27s):
And I think certainly more work needs to be done. And this is the, the, the, the horizon. And I actually credit Chris left to be a philosopher and Australia who has a forthcoming book. It might be out right about now where, or soon within the coming months, psychedelics and philosophy,

0 (52m 47s):
That's the title of the book. It's,

1 (52m 49s):
It might be psychedelic philosophy. It's really

0 (52m 52s):
First Lether view. We'll put a link to

1 (52m 54s):
It, right? And, and so his conclusion in this, it's a really great book and he really plays with the idea it's like psychedelic experiences come along with a lot of supernatural stuff experience. It can certainly go along with that, but the idea is like cannon can these experiences and including those therapeutic effects be explained from a natural list, point of view. And his conclusion is that that changes in self representation may be the commonality. Now that could go along with plant spirits and the, and chakras and whatever your model, you know, system in Jesus, all of that, but it could also be completely devoid of any supernatural and your religious.

1 (53m 38s):
And we do in fact, see all, you know, all of these varieties. So I think there's something about this change and in sense of self, there is, it seems to be something on the identity level, both with, I think of the work we did with cancer patients who had substantial depression and anxiety because of their cancer and also our work with people trying to quit cigarette smoking. I mean, there's this real, there seems to be when it really works, this change in how people view themselves, like smoking, like really stepping out of this model. Like I'm a smoker, it's tough to quit smoking cigarettes. I can't do it. I failed a bunch of times.

1 (54m 18s):
I remember one participant during the session, but he held onto this afterward said, I, God, it's like, I can really just decide like flicking off a bike. I can decide not to smoke. And it's, I call these experiences with psychedelics because people often like in the Kansas state, you say I'm causing most of my own suffering. Like I can, I can follow my appointments. I can do everything, but I can still plan for the victim. I'm not getting outside in the sunshine. I'm not playing with my grandkids. I'm choosing to do that. And it's like, they told themselves that before and the smoker has told themselves a million times I can cheat. And so it sounds when it comes out of their mouth and you folks will say, this is part of the ineffability of a psychedelic experience.

1 (54m 59s):
Folks. I, I know this sounds like bullshit. And this sounds like, but my God, I could just side, like they're feeling this gravity of agency and which I think is interesting because regardless of the, the, the, the debates on the reality of freewill, I think the philosophy of that, whether there's, it's ultimately feel free, will like pure agency, if that exists, which I'm skeptical of, or just the idea that clearly we have a sense of agency. There's something there, whether it's the sense of agency, even that is the human being has. And that seems to be at times, fundamentally like supercharge from a psychedelic experience, this idea, like I'm just going to make a decision.

1 (55m 47s):
Like normally, like you tell a depressed person, like, don't, don't think of yourself that way. You're not a failure. Look at all that. It's just, yeah. It's like, well, you can actually, in one of these states having experienced, we realized like, oh my God, just like using MTMA to treat PTSD. And we're going to be starting work with psilocybin to treat PTSD. Someone could really reprocess their trauma in a way that like has lasting effects. And clearly there's probably something, you know, reconsolidation of those memories. There they are, they are altered, you know, very consistent with our understanding of the way memory works. So the whole idea of people can actually, in a few hours have a such a profound experience that they, they decide to make these changes and who they are.

1 (56m 31s):
And it sticks. There seems to be some,

0 (56m 33s):
Anything like that. And that's profound. I mean, I think a few moments ago, I was, I made some semi disparaging statements about things like the secret and affirmations and, and the reason I, I do that with, with w with a nod to the fact that the people who are putting those ideas forward are well-intentioned people, is that the neural networks of the brain put language last, we, we tell stories, you know, and stories are very powerful, but I think one of the most crucial aspects of the whole self-help literature in popular psychology is this idea that everything you say, your brain and body hear it, that's actually not very unkind or even cruel thing for people who are depressed or anxious to hear, because if they hear that and believe that, and I want to be clear, I don't think it's true that they think that it's very hard to control thoughts.

0 (57m 31s):
Is it very hard to control thoughts? So if somebody says, you know, I can't, and then somebody says, well, no, every time you say you, can't your brain hears that. And it reinforces it. That's a very treacherous place to live and language is powerful, but neural networks, the brain and the networks that underlie emotionality and perception and sense of self, they don't change in response to language. They change in response to experience, and it just fundamentally, you need, there's some prerequisites, you need certain neuromodulators present like serotonin or dopamine. You need those to be at sufficient levels. You don't need a drug necessarily do it. You could, you know, you give a kid, a kitten or a puppy, their first kid and her puppy and the levels of dopamine and serotonin, I've never measured them, but we can be pretty sure that they are higher than baseline.

0 (58m 22s):
And that experience will reshape them, right. Likewise, with an adult in a certain circumstances. So I think I'm fascinated by this idea that I, a somatic and a perceptual experience, but a real experience of the sort that you're describing is what allows us to reshape our neural circuitry and to feel differently about ourselves. And I know there's been really tremendous success in many individuals of alleviating depression, treating trauma with these different compounds. I wanted step from the, the experience under the effects of the psychedelic. So in the person there with your team, they go into this expanded perceptual bubble.

0 (59m 6s):
If, if things go well, they're able to do that to a really deep degree. Maybe it's the, the relive trauma, maybe it's the beauty of the, their ability to connect to things in the world. And now I want to talk about the transition out of that state and then the export into life, because this is really where the power of psychedelic seems to be in the therapeutic sense is the ability to learn, truly learn from that experience so that the learning becomes the default. That one doesn't have to remind themselves, oh, I am, you know, they don't have to do an affirmation. I am a happy person. I am a ha you know, I always think of Bart Simpson, like writing on the chalkboard, right. Didn't work for him. It doesn't work for this other stuff too. But so as they transition out of this state, I know that there's a kind of a heightened, there's a so-called peak where everything seems to be kind of cascading in at such a level that the person just, they can't really turn it off.

0 (59m 57s):
At that point, it would be challenging. And then they start to exit the effects of the drug. Are those transition zones, are those valuable much like is the transition between a dream and the waking state valuable because you're in a sort of mishmash of altered reality and new reality, right? What do you, what do you do to guide people through the, out, out the tunnel as they exit the tunnel?

1 (1h 0m 25s):
And I had to say like, this is where we need more experimentation. Really the clinical model goes back to literally the night late 1950s, and there's been virtually no experimentation on, let's say, you know, randomize people to, we're going to talk more during the latter half of the, of the session versus not, versus we have them, you know, write an essay after their session versus not, versus we have this amount of integration. What's the,

0 (1h 0m 53s):
In your studies, are they, are they writing or talking as they're doing,

1 (1h 0m 57s):
And it's called, you know, very loosey goosey, you know, term integration, but w for us means as they're coming back from the experience of sort of five, six hours, and, you know, so this is the afternoon they've been dosed around nine o'clock. So this is like four o'clock or so just some initial, tell us about the experience. Do you want to not unpacking it? Totally, but to kind of initially just have a little bit discussion before they go home. So there's a little bit of that, but then that night, their homework is to write something. So it could be, you know, a few bullet points, it could be, you know, 20 pages and we, we get everything, you know, in that range, but, you know, try not to be self-critical, it's not great at like, just to, just to process and for a point of discussion the next day.

1 (1h 1m 42s):
So they write something, they come in the next day for one to two hours, depending on the study integration session, basically discuss let's discuss your experience. And depending on what study it's in, like, what, you know, what might that mean for your dealing with cancer? What might that mean for your, your smoking or becoming a non smoker? So you encourage them to simply take it seriously. And I think this is again, a sort of, one of the points that could be the antithesis of what some just kind of social users use. I mean, this was written about by Houston Smith, the scholar of religion, in terms of these mystical experiences that can happen from psychedelics and how a lot of times the attribution to a drug effect is dismissed like the knee, even if one has this, you know, this sense of being one with the universe and it totally like shakes their soul, so to speak, you know, but the next day their friends, like, ah, dude, you are screwed up too much acid for you.

1 (1h 2m 40s):
Whoa. You know, like, man, next time you needed to have a few more beers to like, bring that down, you know, like this sort of like, you know, social, you know, reinforcement for dismissing the experience, oh God, you're talking out of your head, man. Like, you know, even if it's good natured, but it's this dismissal, it's not like, you know, what you want to do, you know, is like, tell me more about that. You know, you were crying at one point, like in talking about your mom, let's talk about that. What was that like? Do you remember that

0 (1h 3m 13s):
You, are you doing that follow-up or you they're encouraged to do that in their own life with the various people in their lives.

1 (1h 3m 18s):
So we do that explicitly in the follow-up where we have these discussions and I T depending on what the situation is, you might encourage the person to kind of follow up. It's it's really the, the basics of it is, is supportive therapy. It's, non-structured, it's, you know, use all the, you know, reflective listening and the sort of the humanistic psychology thing, you know, unconditional positive regard for the person. But, but, you know, I, I think if, you know, if someone feels inclined to, you know, apologize to their, to their, you know, to, to their sibling about some things like, yeah, go ahead and call them up.

1 (1h 3m 58s):
When it, with something big, like a relationship change, I'd be like, sit on that two weeks. Don't make any big don't end. Any relationship don't quit. Your job don't make any

0 (1h 4m 8s):
Big. You also told them not to start any relationships.

1 (1h 4m 14s):
I don't remember that ever coming up.

0 (1h 4m 17s):
I'm not Joey. I was just wondering, you know, it's but yeah, it makes sense.

1 (1h 4m 20s):
Like if they're dating and they're thinking like, ah, I might be time to take it to the next, another level. Should I ask this girl to marry me? If it did come up, I would say there too, mind you sit on that a week or just don't get them,

0 (1h 4m 32s):
Don't get a puppy. Certainly don't get four puppies until I have a question about flashbacks. You know, one of, one of the kind of things you hear is, you know, flashbacks and that, that people do, people get flashbacks. And if so, what is the basis of flashbacks? The, the on the street lower about this is that somehow some of the compound gets stored in body fat tissues and then released later, like, is that complete nonsense,

1 (1h 5m 3s):
No evidence for that. So probably complete nonsense flashbacks

0 (1h 5m 7s):
Or nonsense, or the storage and body fat is complete the

1 (1h 5m 10s):
Storage and body fat. So to answer whether flashbacks or complete nonsense, we have to define it. So I really think these are multiple that are going, it's not the same thing that fall under that term. There is a phenomenon that, that appears real. That's called hallucinogen persisting perceptual disorder. It's in the DSM, a certain number of people, very small number of people, you know, percentage wise who have used psychedelics will have these persisting perceptual disorders. Like they'll see halos around things. They'll see some trails, like, you know, like the, after images, following an object in motion, they'll see distortions in color and it'll be like, anything else.

1 (1h 5m 53s):
That's a disorder in the DSM. It has to be clinically distressing. And it has to be persisting over some number of, of months. And, and so very rare, very mysterious. Some of the keys to that are amazingly, it's never been seen in the thousands of participants, either from the older era, from the late fifties to the early seventies, the people in psychedelic studies with LSD psilocybin masculine, and it's never been seen in the modern era again now with thousands of participants at a number of centers like ours throughout the world. So it seems to be something that is for some reason happening in illicit use.

1 (1h 6m 34s):
So now that brings in, okay, is there polypharmacology right. You know, cause you drink and during it, and you take what you thought what's the dose is what's the purity. But then also what I think is actually even more so than that, what's likely going on is some sort of very rare neurological susceptibility. There is one paper that is a case series of individuals reporting these symptoms and they didn't limit it to the, to just people would had hallucinogen history. And the amazing thing about this is that a number of people seem to have straight up HPP D diagnosis, hallucinogen, persisting, perceptual disorder, who have never taken a psychedelic.

1 (1h 7m 16s):
So it's often prompted by alcohol, benzodiazepines, cannabis, even tobacco. And, and I believe in one individual, no lifetime history of any, it wasn't proceeded by any of those, you know, substance use. So I think it's, I think a bit like the precipitation exacerbation of psychotic disorders, we, it seems pretty clear through observation that some people with, with either predisposition or active psychotic disease, that this can destabilize them a cycle, the same way that a life experience can destabilize those person more easily.

1 (1h 7m 56s):
I think of it like that. There's probably some pretty rare neurological susceptibility. We have tended going, this goes back to the eighties, you know, clinical practice. It ended up in the DSM focused on hallucinogen because I related to the, the psychology of xenophobia. It's always the weird other thing that gets the attribution. You don't attribute it to the thing like, oh yeah. Did you smoke cigarettes? Did you drink? It's like, well, yeah, but I see lots of people drinking and not ending up with this. Like, you take a crazy like drug and you can get people to believe all sorts of crazy stuff. The biggest example of that is the, the, the Katherine owned derivatives. So called bath salts.

1 (1h 8m 37s):
If you remember several years back, Florida, that that ate the other guy's face, there's a homeless guy that like literally a part of someone's face off like yeah. All the crazies a lot while the person was alive and all it took was one sheriff, Stephanie to say, well, I don't know, but I bet it was some of that bath salt stuff that's been going on. The only thing, what, what was, it was the only thing in his system. Maybe we could set the record straight for people. What, what was this, why would he say bath salts? And was it bath salts? It wasn't. And, and so the only thing in his talks was cannabis, which we all know, typically people don't eat people's faces off after they get too hungry, or we're not that right.

1 (1h 9m 20s):
So it's just an example of the xenophobia. Like today, if you get on Google images and look up, you know, bath salts, one of the most common images you'll see is this poor guy's face being eaten off. So we're just so ready to latch on just like the people of another culture that we don't know about. It's, it's, it's very easy to assign attribution to a class that you're very unfamiliar with. So I think they, the psychedelics got that attribution with this very rare neurological susceptibility, the way that alcohol didn't. So I think it's not specific to psychedelics, but we don't really know we need, but we look at it and our research, I've never seen an example of it, but flashbacks can mean a number of other things.

1 (1h 10m 4s):
I think the most common thing, people experiences what we call it, state dependent learning it's it's, it's, it's returning yourself to a similar context, can bring back the same thoughts and emotions as the experience. So, you know, someone used us Mia mushrooms a week ago. Now they do something like they smoke some cannabis or they, or there they take a warm bath or they're simply like relaxed. It seems to come out of the blue and all of a sudden these, or they follow a thought trail that takes them, that reminds them of their in. And they find themselves in that same experience. Again, I think that's more state dependent learning. It's not the distressing component that is in, and it's typically not perceptual.

1 (1h 10m 48s):
And then another class are just sort of perceptual anomalies within a day or two following the experience, which is not HP PD. Most people have joked that this is a free trip. Like you might see a few trails or halos the day afterwards. It doesn't last longer than that. And it's, doesn't screw you up. It's kind of fun. Like, oh yeah, I'm still seeing some traffic. Most people will say, so

0 (1h 11m 14s):
It could mean any of those things out of flashback is. Yeah. Interesting. No, I appreciate you clarifying that. I mean, one very common misconception about neuro-plasticity is that it's an event and it's not an event. It's a process. And we have no understanding of the duration of that process. However, the experience of any drug or any life experience, right? Even if it's a trauma or a wonderful experience or a psychedelic experience, doesn't matter sets in motion, a series of dominoes that fall. And it's the falling of those dominoes that we call neuro-plasticity. I mean, the reshaping of neural circuits could take years.

0 (1h 11m 54s):
We don't know it's the trigger and then there's the actual change. And so I think that some of what you described could be literally the reordering of circuitry, that in some individuals might extend longer than others. And there is one phenomenon that I've been told people experience. And I'm wondering whether or not any of the patients you've worked with or people in your trials have reported this. I've never done. Iowasca which I'm assuming has some overlap with the serotonin system probably hits a variety of the DMC system. <inaudible> that allow the DMT to be orally.

0 (1h 12m 34s):
Right? I should have, I should have recalled that. Absolutely. Well, I've never done it, but a number of people I know that have done Iowasca as well as people I know who've done, MTMA report an increased sense of what sometimes called SMR or these autonomic sensory Meridian reflexes, which is, and it's interesting. A lot of people have these naturally and they hide these. These are, it's actually something that many people keep hidden to themselves. I'll just ask you if you can do it. So some people are able to pass a, like a shiver down their spine or up their spine consciously, you know, like you can kind of like, I'm able to actually pass a shiver up my spine.

0 (1h 13m 14s):
I actually learned how to do this. When I was a kid on a hot day, I was standing on a field in sports camp. I was like, it's really hot here. And I could actually create like a cooling, cooled perception. Some people I've told someone this one's and then this led to a discussion of, oh, I can do it. But I always hid that from people because it's actually somewhat pleasurable. And this is a well-known phenomenon, phenomenon, SMR. And some people I know who have taken MDM, a therapeutically or Iowasca will report that they feel great relief from this. They can generate these autonomic reflexes through their body more readily, probably I'm guessing because they were able to tune into a kind of deeper sense of somatic self.

0 (1h 13m 55s):
Now on the internet ASMR, if you look it up, it's a little bit like the bath salt thing, but in the other direction, like there were people that pay a limit. Let's just say their accounts on YouTube that have many, many millions of viewers of people that will whisper to them about my, for instance, there's a people that will go listen to, it seems to be women in particular whispering about like car mechanics or something or about or scratching. So there certain sounds, we'll do this whispering tapping finger tapping and people experience immense pleasure from it. It's not really sexual pleasure, but it's this kind of deep core of the law. It's the autonomic nervous system down in the corner.

1 (1h 14m 35s):
I only want a certain number of people would call Kundalini, which is another inch scientifically.

0 (1h 14m 41s):
Yeah. People who do long duration, Kundalini, breathing sessions. Many of them will report later feeling as if they, their perception of self is outside of their head and their rut that they're literally walking. It's very uncomfortable for them that they feel like they're walking around with their sense of self extended beyond the body. And this is a mural. This is a clinically described neurologic phenomenon.

1 (1h 15m 3s):
The study has been done. I would imagine that person might actually like, would they duck? Oh, well that would be an interesting, that'd

0 (1h 15m 9s):
Be the kind of thing my lab would want to get into

1 (1h 15m 11s):
That's where their body could clear, but their projection.

0 (1h 15m 16s):
Yeah. The sense of self. I mean, there's a, there's a well-known phenomenon. It's, it's very in a few individuals, very sad where people actually avidly seek out amputation of their limbs because their limbs, they feel don't belong to their body. Oh yeah. This is very sad and fortunately, very rare, but also very sad condition. Anyway, I think that the, the core of this conversation that we're we're drilling into is this notion of, of, of reordering the self and it's, and it's a relief to me to know that flashbacks are not something that is kind of forgive the term baked in to the, to the psychedelic experience. And I suppose that's a good segue to ask about other sorts of drugs.

0 (1h 15m 56s):
I, having said baked in the temptation is to go to marijuana or cannabis. But, but if we, if we could, I'd like to just ask about some of the more dopaminergic compounds in particular. MTMA yeah. My understanding is the MTMA is a purely synced synthetic compound that you're not going to find MTMA in nature

1 (1h 16m 17s):
So far. So there are certain DMT was first synthesized in the lab, and then we thought it didn't exist in nature. And then like Richard Shelties found it like everywhere, who knows a plan out there might be making MTMA. But as far as we know now, no.

0 (1h 16m 33s):
Right. And we'll talk about DMT and its sources within the body, but MTMA could exist in elsewhere, but has been synthesized. And my understanding is the MTMA leads to very robust increases in both dopamine and serotonin simultaneously, which from an, from a neural networks perspective is a very unusual situation, right? Normally, because dopamine puts us in this external susceptive, looking outside ourselves, seeking things in the world, beyond the skin, our own skin and dopamine, excuse me, serotonin tends to focus us inward. Those are almost mutually exclusive kind of neurochemical states, although they're always at different levels.

0 (1h 17m 15s):
So why would it be that having this increased dopamine and increased serotonin would provide an experience that is beneficial? And how do you, to the extent that you can describe it, how do you think that experience differs from the sorts of experiences that people have on psilocybin or more serotonergic agents? Just broadly speaking?

1 (1h 17m 38s):
Yeah. Yeah. In terms of that, that balance in terms of the, the, the effects generally on serotonin and dopamine, I can only speculate, you know, like sort of is that dopaminergic component necessary for, let's say we know that the amygdala is less reactive during, under acute effects and that may play a role in there's less sort of control from the, from the amygdala in terms of like one's experience of memory. So it may be part of this sort of reprocessing this reconsolidation of these memories in a different way where the amygdala is not like going crazy saying freak out, like, you know, in fight or flight,

0 (1h 18m 21s):
I should have said, it seems like MTMA is being used clinically anyway, mainly for trauma, not just for depression, sorry.

1 (1h 18m 31s):
Although part of that, we really don't know, and maybe the MGMA is great for depression and some of these other, and it may be that. And I'm going to be looking at this soon, that psilocybin is great for treating PTSD. A lot of underground therapists say that underground psychedelic therapist. So we don't really know yet underground. Oh. Because they been doing illegal, you know, but more like, you know, a professional therapist would, it's just illegal and this is a kind of a growing thing. So we don't really know which it, it speculating, but it may be that MTMA for a broader number of people is better for, for trauma because the chances of having an extremely challenging experience, what I call the bad trip, like really freaking out is much lower with MDME.

1 (1h 19m 22s):
People can have bad trips, but they're of a different nature. It's not, it's not sort of like freaking out because all of reality is sort of shattering and it's less of this. It can take so many forms with the classic psychedelics, but like typically you'll, you'll hear something like, I didn't know what was going to be like this, no matter how hard you tried to prepare them that like, this is like, get me off this <inaudible>. Yeah. Yeah. And, and just this sense of like, I'm going insane. This is so far beyond anything I've ever experienced and it's scaring the shit out of me, how I have a toehold on anything even that I exist as a, as, as, as an entity.

1 (1h 20m 9s):
And that can be really, I think, frankly, experientially, that's kind of the gateway to both the transcendental mystical experiences, that the sense of unity with all things, which we know our data suggests is related to long-term positive outcomes. I want to make sure.

0 (1h 20m 28s):
So you're saying the bad trip can be related to the transcendental experience,

1 (1h 20m 32s):
Right? I think those are both speculating, but you have to pass through this sort of like, you know, reality shattering, including your sense of self. And one can handle that in one of two ways, you can either completely surrender to it, or you can try to hang on. And if you try to hang on, it's going to be more like a bad trip. So again, I wish there was more, and hopefully there will be more experimentation. There's a lot going on here in the black box, in terms of the operant behavior of how you are, you know, within yourself choosing to handle like letting go, you know, and eventually we'll be able to see this in real time with brain imaging, ah, there, they are surrendering to the psychedelic experience here.

1 (1h 21m 14s):
They are trying to hold on, but we we're not there yet, but I think it's a good through clinical observation seems pretty clear that something like that is going on and certain drugs like DMT smoke DMT can be so strong. The reason I think that can be so extraordinary, you can compare to the others cause it like forces people. Like there is no choice. I have never done it.

0 (1h 21m 35s):
I was told that DMT is like a high-speed locomotive into the psychedelic experience and out of the psychedelic experience. And there's no ability to hold on to the self while you're in the kind of peak phase. Is that correct?

1 (1h 21m 50s):
A lot of people say that, but some Terence McKenna, who's kind of the classic Bard on DMT effects. He would say the sense of self was intact, but everything else, the sensorium and what you navigated, what you oriented towards, everything else changed basically. But it's hard to, when everything's changing hard to say, like, what is the self that's changing? What is the rest of the world? Well,

0 (1h 22m 13s):
Languages is totally deficient to describe experience any way, much less on a psychedelic. What is McKenna's background? Like what is this qualification for being this as he referred this Bard of, of DMT.

1 (1h 22m 27s):
And we're talking about Terrence and there's also the brother, Dennis, whom I know whose, whose he can only imagine what their brothers like parents passed away years a couple of decades ago now, but he's sort of the one who's known as being a Bard. And you can find hundreds if not thousands of hours of him on the lecture circuit in the eighties and nineties on YouTube. But his background was really, oh gosh, I don't recall what his college degree was in. But he basically, when he was like 19, he traveled to south America and, and actually on the initial trip with his, his brother who was even younger than him with some other friends and just in, in search for a DMT snuff that they had read about from, in the Harvard archives, from the work of Shelties from a generation before.

1 (1h 23m 18s):
But they had discovered all of these mushrooms growing that down there, the psilocybin mushrooms, what they recognize and just took a lot of mushrooms and, and,

0 (1h 23m 30s):
And talked about it talked about, and Terrence

1 (1h 23m 32s):
Was basically a very intelligent, very well-read and, and literature and culture person that could be as sort of the, the next generations, Tim Leary, someone who could really speak, get a little closer to the magnitude of what the psychedelic experience was like for people. And he serves like leery somewhat of a, of an advocate. I mean, he would tell people, folks, you could see, you know, the equivalent of a UFO landing on the white house lawn. Like it's right there, it'll take five minutes. It'll shake everything in your reality. You know, he would sort of go to people they're doing it.

0 (1h 24m 9s):
Well, certainly science and clinical medicine is, are just, but two lenses with which to explore these things in life. But what part of the reason I ask is I feel like, you know, in the world of health and fitness, you have this very extreme condition of like Arnold Schwarzenegger's and bodybuilders who have like 2% body fat. And they look like to most people, they look kind of freakish, especially now, right? Oh, especially now, especially now. And yeah, I'll look like

1 (1h 24m 42s):
Regular

0 (1h 24m 42s):
Exactly. Back in his day. Yeah. And you have contortionists who can put themselves into a small box and wrap themselves into a pretzel. But from those two very extreme subculture practices that I don't know anything about contortion ism really, but except that they get really bendy, but it was a community that included lifestyle practices and nutritional practices, and then drug practices from those very extreme subcultures, there's been an export, which is that, you know, weight training is healthy, right? The general public has done that or that yoga is healthy. So contortion ism to yoga, et cetera. And I feel like a similar thing is happening in the realm of psychedelics, where it was leery and Huxley.

0 (1h 25m 29s):
I mean, I like I'm from the bay area. I'm not far from the Menlo park VA where one flew over the Cuckoo's is basically based on right. Ken Keasy and those guys and the, you know, the, there has been an attempt at creating this movement toward openness about psychedelics and their positive effects that this has happened before. The difference is that now there are people like you inside the walls of the university are publishing peer reviewed studies and things of that sort, the reason I asked about McKenna was, you know, it seems like McKenna and his brother are, but you know, just two of many people, Michael Pollan, et cetera, who have no real formal training in biology or psychology.

0 (1h 26m 13s):
The other guys who were at universities, lost their jobs. They were actually removed from places like Harvard and other universities for their kind of cavalier explorations. Right. And now things are kind of returning. So in the same way that bodybuilding led to weight training in every corner gym. Yeah. Men, women, and children, and contortion ism is one extreme, but people generally think that yoga is a pretty healthy practice right there. These are matter of degrees, right? And now here you are inside the, the, the, the walls of a very highly respected university, Johns Hopkins you're on the medical school. So I did an undergrad in the med school, which is a, you know, a serious health institution.

0 (1h 27m 0s):
You know, the question is to me, you know, what are the, what are the valuable exports, right. And where does the extreme lie? I mean, clearly there's a, there's a problem with tinkering with reality through pharmacology. And there's a benefit. It sounds like to tinkering with a reality through pharmacology. And what's so striking to me is this is the elements of atypical experience, atypical representation of the self. So for the, for the average person, right, or for kids that are hearing this kids that are in their teens, right?

0 (1h 27m 41s):
Yeah. What are the, I want to talk about, what are the dangers of psychedelics is something you don't hear a lot about these days, and it's not because I'm, anti-psychotic at all, but what are the dangers, right. If, if, if a kid or adult has a predisposition toward, let's say psychotic thinking, right. Or auditory hallucinations, or whereas on the Asperger's side of the autism spectrum, is there an increased risk of bringing the mind into these states? Cause it sounds like a very lay bile situation. So could we talk a little bit about that and are there classes of these different drugs, whether or not it be MTMA LSD or DMT that are, that you think are particularly sharp blades and therefore need to be wielded particularly.

1 (1h 28m 28s):
Yeah. So these can be pro-family de-stabilizing experiences and ones that, you know, ideally are, are had in a safe container, you know, sort of where, where someone, you know, what are the relevant dangers and what can we do to mitigate those? So there's two biggies one, and I've already mentioned it's people with very severe psychiatric illness, not depression, not anxiety. I'm talking about psychotic disorders like schizophrenia or mania as part of bipolar disorder.

1 (1h 29m 10s):
So, and diagnostically, this has shifted. So it's a little hard to say how many people today with bipolar would have been labeled as schizophrenia back in the sixties when some of this early research or just clinical observation was done. So it seems very clear that folks with the predisposition or active disease, they could be destabilized. And so some of the cases that we know of always think of Sid bear at the first singer pink Floyd seems pretty clear, although I think the federal

0 (1h 29m 40s):
And there, I should be sorry, pink Floyd fans. I've never, the songs are just really long.

1 (1h 29m 45s):
Yeah. You're more of a punk guy, right? Yeah. So I've got my foot in a lot of worlds, definitely in part in the Floyd world. But, but he basically went crazy early on. He, he, it seemed, I don't think his family ever admitted it, but he developed schizophrenia classic pattern and, and, and he was doing a lot of LSD, but you know, like a lot of these cases, it looked like he was showing all of the signs of, you know, some, some, some, some hints of, of, of that. He had that susceptibility before and often this is hard to disentangle.

1 (1h 30m 25s):
What causes what, because when do people typically not always, but develop when's the modal period for first break its adolescence early adulthood. Yeah. And when do people start playing with drugs? Same exact time period. So it can be hard to disentangle, but it seems pretty clear. Now I should also say there are cases of folks with schizophrenia that say psychedelics have helped them. There's anecdotes for everything though. People around

0 (1h 30m 51s):
The little schizophrenia say it's helped them. Cause when schizophrenia say things you have to, I mean, with all due compassion and respect for schizophrenia, it's a disorder of thinking. So if they're saying it helped them have

1 (1h 31m 4s):
Yeah. Can you trust them? Yeah. I wouldn't be surprised if there was some kernel of truth in some cases, but there's just so it, it seems very clear that the other side is there too. And that, that there ever is a therapeutic potential there for those disorders. That, that shouldn't be the first thing on our list. And we need to learn a lot more because of the level of risk before we start, you know, doing research to see if, you know, silicide, again, can help with schizophrenia. Like I don't think that that may never be the case, but even if it is, you'd have to be even more cautious and figure some more things out first with some of these other disorders, what that

0 (1h 31m 40s):
The solar bipolar disorder, can it be exacerbated by these?

1 (1h 31m 44s):
Yeah. And it's, it may be that, that, that sort of the manifestation of people having prolonged psychiatric issues after a psychedelic experience, as, as atypical as that is when happens, it, it may be that's, that might be more like a manic episode than a psychotic episode. And that can be a blurry line. And it's, it's the folklore is that people go on a trip and they never come back. That's clearly not the case because you know, the drug is metabolized like for anyone else. And the next day, there's not a circuitry. I mean, and they're still, and I, I really do think, you know, much like the positive, you know, long-term effects that, you know, this class of problems is related to like the, the, to the experience and the deep destabilization that can happen from that, from that experience, if it's not in that, in the right container.

1 (1h 32m 45s):
And again, like these people are susceptible to, you know, some people with that psychotic predisposition, they lucky to be born to a great family, stable environment. They may be never have a full break or, or the one that they have is not nearly as bad as what, you know, someone that Hughes who's homeless and is coming from all kinds of early childhood trauma. Like the disease is probably going to be far worse, you know? So, you know, the, the site having a psychedelic experience is like one of those de-stabilizing experiences, you know, so exclude now, fortunately it's really easy to identify those people. And we even, you know, err on the side of extreme caution by eliminating people with like say a first degree relative in some states, even a second degree relative given the heritability, there's some increased chance if your brother or your yeah.

1 (1h 33m 35s):
So, so in an abundance of caution, even eliminating that, I think eventually if it's approved for use FDA, you said we could dial back on that as we learn more. I think it's again over overly cautious, which is doing the early stage clinical trials, great place to start at this point in time. But you know, if you, you know, give a skid or another structured psychiatric interview with a clinician sitting now with this person for a few hours to delve into their history. And like you can very reliably determine that this person has either, you know, a psychotic disorder or bipolar disorder or a strong predisposition. So that's, you know, that you can screen for that. And that's how you address that.

1 (1h 34m 16s):
The far more likely dangerous, the bad trip. Anyone can have this, the most psychologically healthy person in the world, probably Jack the dose high enough. And especially in, in, in, in a, less than an ideal environment, you can have a bad trip. You can you even get it in an ideal environment like ours at a high dose of around 30 milligrams of psilocybin after, you know, the best preparation we can provide about a third of people will say essentially, at some point they have a bad trip and we, at some point within the, the entire journey right now, they could have one of the most beautiful experiences of their life sometimes like a couple minutes later. But at some point they had a sense of strong anxiety, fear losing their mind, feeling trapped, something like that.

1 (1h 35m 1s):
Now, typically when people have that in the, you know, when they're just taken on their own, like lot of things, they're fine, they get through it. You know, they're more likely to be better off if they're not having to navigate the streets of Manhattan, you know, or, and if they're with, you know, other people with friends better that those friends, aren't also dealing with their own psychedelic experience, but probably having some friend of any type, but what other on there is better than having nothing. So very dependent on context. And so the tough thing here that, that in, in, in conveying to the public is that a lot of folks will say, man, I've taken psychedelics hundreds of times, and this is like your fear-mongering.

1 (1h 35m 44s):
And you know, there's no, you know, you're exaggerating the danger there. So I want to say it is atypical, but sometimes, and I have a file folder that grows larger every year of these cases, either in the medical literature or from the news of people that freak out on a psychedelic and they, they get hurt or they die, they run into traffic. They, they, they fall from a height, whether they thought they could fly or whether they just fell like they, you can do when you're drunk or you're intoxicated on any substance. Sometimes that's, that's unclear or gosh, one of the craziest cases was a, a kid like an 18 year old or so in Oregon, several years back that just he even wrote about, I want to take the biggest, he had done machines for, I want to take a heroic dose.

1 (1h 36m 32s):
The biggest dose I've ever taken, he ended up just totally out of it ended up in a neighbor's house. He was just totally disoriented, disconnected from reality and the cops and ended up killing him. And it was just tragic, obviously an over use of force in that case, because he was actually naked at the time, this naked like 120 pounds, I think as a recall kid that ended up dying. But, well, it's,

0 (1h 36m 53s):
I guess to the, you know, the reason I use the examples of like bodybuilding culture, I mean, people there have taken accesses of amounts of anabolics and diuretics and died. Then the contortionist culture people would put themselves in a low plexiglass boxes to do, you know, the, at the extremes, you're going to get deaths and at the extremes and you, and one of the extremes is the sheer number of people with different biological makeups taking the same drug. And so you can create extremes through numbers. You can take extreme, you create extremes through dosage, right? It seems well, this is why I'm such a fan of, of the fact that people like yourself are doing clinical trials inside the walls of universities.

0 (1h 37m 34s):
Not because I think that psychedelics only have utility in those environments, but because it's so important toward creating their transition to legality and to understand what legality means for a compound like this. Right? What not all right. I mean, again, I'll, we'll stay with the anabolic steroids. There's now testosterone and estrogen replacement therapy, hormone replacement therapy is a common medically approved practice, but that's vastly different than people taking their own stuff or diet or deciding how much they need to take. Right? Like we said, there's, there's yoga and there's contortionists and a plexiglass blocks and, you know, thinking of Houdini or something. So there are, these are a matter of degrees.

0 (1h 38m 16s):
Speaking of dosage, I definitely want to ask you about microdose versus standard or macro dose. Tell me, tell me that I'm wrong, but I'm always a little bit, I sort of a little I'm micro cynical, if you will, about this term micro dose. And the reason is that many people that I know who talk about micro dosing are taking dosages of compounds that work at Mike that are very powerful at microgram levels. So the word micro, I think, can be a little bit confusing to people because micro dose implies less than something it's a meanie dose, right.

0 (1h 38m 60s):
And yet some of these compounds were, are tremendously powerful at microgram concentrations. So what it constitutes a microdose and what is the value of so-called microdosing, if any, and how does it differ from standard or what I can only assume is called MACRA.

1 (1h 39m 21s):
Yeah. And so LSD would be the, the, the prototypical example of that super potent.

0 (1h 39m 26s):
Yeah. How much, what, what size dosage of, of LSD will lead to hallucinations and kind of standards, the entry

1 (1h 39m 34s):
Point for psychedelic type effects, which may not involve hallucination actually most classic psychedelics don't lead to true hallucinations as defined in psychiatry of, you know, again, see thinking, you're talking to the person that's not there seeing the pink elephant

0 (1h 39m 50s):
Tracers and things like that. And perceptual,

1 (1h 39m 52s):
Some people never get that even at a very high dose. So I think more broadly in terms of the psychedelic effects, which isn't just perceptual, unless we get into the level of, as you were alluding to earlier, a broader definition of perception, like one's models of the world, the model of the self, you can, you can consider all of that perception in terms of, you know, truly not sensation, but the perception, the construction of putting together a reality. So yeah, yeah, yeah. And so the psychedelic effects are, are typically considered to start for LSD, ran a hundred micrograms. So a 10th of a milligram is a hundred micrograms.

0 (1h 40m 31s):
There's someone taking a hundred micrograms of LSD. They on this nowadays, people might mistakenly refer to that as a microdose because it's micrograms, but that's actually a macro dose of LSD,

1 (1h 40m 43s):
Right? They might, and that's one of the most common mistakes or situations that people get into with microdosing as they intended to be a microdose, but it ends up being a full-blown, you know, dose. Now people do when they're working with LSD and they're microdosing, they'll shoot for something like say 10 milligrams, you know, something in that range, 10, 20 milligrams of LSD. So, you know, a 10th of fifth, something of kind of your entry level, psychedelic dose people's ability on the street to do this. And I say, the street is if they're on the corner, but anyway, like outside of the medical profession to do this, like, it varies

0 (1h 41m 21s):
As you can, they're not measuring purity or molarity or things like that

1 (1h 41m 24s):
Typically, and there's ways to do it. So even if you don't ultimately know the dose, that's in like the blotter paper of acid, one could at least get a sense of like, yeah, having one of those tabs is one of those hits is, is a psychedelic experience. And they could do something like put in water. It's a hundred percent aqueous soluble. You could vol, you know, make sure it all gets into solution. And then volumetrically measure, it's going to be homogenous, lean distributed. So you, can you take one 10th of that volume of water after it's fully dissolved, you know, that whatever you started with, you're going to have a 10th of that dose. So the people that are more sophisticated we'll do things like that. And when they're working with mushrooms, they'll, they'll grow a bunch of mushrooms. And then they'll say, put it in a coffee grinder.

1 (1h 42m 4s):
I'm not telling people to do this, by the way, I'm just describing. So don't do this at home, but like grind it all up. So it's homogenous. Cause you can have like, you know, sort of taking, you know, two caps and a stem, Hey, this two caps in the stem that this buddy takes is, has a different potency than this two caps in the stem that the other buddy takes. So people that are kind of in the know will, will grind it all up into a homogenous powder and they'll pack it into whatever size capsule and they'll know that. And again, even if they don't have, sometimes they might have a buddy that'll sneak it into the HPLC at their, at their job or whatever. If they have not your lab, that's never happened. Seriously, never happened. But, but, but they'll at least know that, Hey, I've got a sense of what two capsules do.

1 (1h 42m 47s):
I've got a sense of what five capsules do. And so, but in reality, like that's not what people do that. They'll take a piece of blotter paper and they get a tiny little pair of scissors, a Swiss army knife, pair of scissors. And they'll cut up the tab of acid, which is like, you know, a quarter inch square or something. And they'll cut it up in 10 little pieces. And it's like, I got, you have no idea. Like if it's equally distributed in that media yeah.

0 (1h 43m 13s):
And chuckle about it. And, but to me, one of the reasons why this experiment around psychedelics this cultural experiment and this legal experiment, we're seeing this now, but this was all attempted once before in the sixties and seventies, the difference was it was all out in the street. The people in universities who were dabbling with this stuff lost, most of them lost their jobs or were asked to leave through, you know,

1 (1h 43m 41s):
For this research randomly. And they had to move on to other topics

0 (1h 43m 45s):
Precarious times. I mean, where did it, where to we're in a key moment where everyone assumes that this all going to be legal in a few years. But I think that that's a premature assumption, frankly, but, and I'm, and let's touch on the legality and some of the things that are happening now, but what is micro-dosing psilocybin versus the sorts of dosages that you described before in the 10 to 40 milligram range, I've heard of people taking one or two milligrams of psilocybin every day as a way to quote unquote. And for those listening, I'm just making air quotes with my fingers, increased plasticity, which is, which is a term that I personally load.

0 (1h 44m 27s):
Because what does that mean? I mean, you don't really want your brain to be plastic because you need to make predict it. You need to maintain your ability to make predictions. Yeah. I mean

1 (1h 44m 37s):
Like prediction you're you need models of the world. You need heuristics. Like

0 (1h 44m 42s):
The city is never the goal or be that plasticity is never the goal. The goal directed plasticity is the goal, right? Learning a language, reshaping your experience to a trauma altering the perception of self. But plasticity is a process like, yeah, it's

1 (1h 44m 59s):
A fringe idea is a lot of plasticity. Exactly.

0 (1h 45m 2s):
Right, right. It may, it might even be there's one theory that it's extreme ongoing plasticity and that's why people never create stable representations of anything. That's a kind of a minority view out there. But so what's the business with microdosing. And is there any clinical evidence or peer reviewed, published evidence that it works, quote unquote, to make people feel better about anything?

1 (1h 45m 25s):
So micro-dosing is, is, is the aim of taking against something around a 10th of what would be sort of an entry-level psychedelic dose for whatever compounds. So, so like yeah. With siliciden usually people almost never P do people have like pure psilocybin. Like my one milligram of psilocybin would be in the range of a migrant is more likely people are going to have, you know, mushrooms. So like something like a half of a, of a gram of mushroom. I know

0 (1h 45m 54s):
Every day they're doing these every day, like in there, like the same way that I take. Like, I'm, I'm personally, I'm not recommending other people do this, but I take some, I'm a fan of LCL carnitine lately. I've been kind of experimented with that a little bit, which is not a psychedelic compound. I take it every day and they're taking their time and every day that's their supplement.

1 (1h 46m 15s):
So yeah, the claims are in there a number of them there's two general ones. One is, is sort of acting in, in place of the ADHD treating drugs. So the psycho-motor stimulant. So like a better version of Adderall, the other claims are essentially a better version of, of the traditional antidepressants, a better version of Prozac.

0 (1h 46m 38s):
We've been taking them both for attention deficit and for depression.

1 (1h 46m 42s):
Yeah. And the aspects of those disorders that, you know, we all have a degree of just like amphetamine is going to increase the focus of at the right dose of anyone who takes amphetamine pretty much whether you're ADHD diagnosed or not. The idea is that, you know, that there may not be a necessarily a clear divide between the therapeutic need and, you know, positive psychology, you know, even improving mood and focus, you know, you know, so it's not necessarily correcting, you know, ADHD, but improving focus to supercharge, you know, your, your life. And so those are the claims I am.

1 (1h 47m 23s):
So, so none of the peer reviewed studies that are, have much credibility, none of them have shown a benefit. And they've tried now, there were, there was only at this 0.4 or five studies that, and I think for things like this, you really need double blind research because the effects, I mean, there was one study done in Amsterdam where people knew they were taking psilocybin truffles, basically same as mushrooms and more like the roots, the mycelia dosing them taking what would be considered a, a, a microdose and then doing some, some cognitive measures before and after. And the types of things that, you know, like lot of cognitive measures are measured on the order of reaction, time and milliseconds.

1 (1h 48m 7s):
I mean, and the types of effects you get, as you could imagine, are ones that like would be, you would totally expect, could be there from either a practice effect or, or an expectancy effect, a placebo effect. So, you know, for something like these claimed, you know, you could imagine a sort of an increased focus in, you know, enhancement of cognition. These are going to be more subtle effects that you really need a good placebo control for the handful of studies that have done that have shown they've ranged from finding no effect whatsoever to just a little bit of impairment, like impairing someone's ability to do time estimation and production tasks.

1 (1h 48m 50s):
So you want an accurate sense of time. At least if you're navigating in the real world, it's different. If you're on the couch on a heroic dose for therapeutic reasons where you're safe, but if you're crossing the street, if you're getting, you know, it's a funny work life, which is why the way people are claiming to, you know, use that it helps them be a better CEO. Like you want an accurate sense of time. So if anything in the data suggests that it makes it a little bit less accurate. And, and there's evidence that someone feels a little bit impaired and they feel a little bit high. So in terms of, you know, you call that abuse, liability and research, not surprising. You take a little bit of, of a drug that can result in a, some type of a high, and you take a little tiny bit of it, you'll feel a little bit high.

1 (1h 49m 34s):
So, you know, none of the, so far, no studies have, have shown, you know, any increase in creativity, enhancement of any form of cognition or, or a sustained improvement in mood. Now, no studies have actually looked at the, the, the, the system of microdosing that the aficionados are claiming, and there's a couple of models out there, but, but folks like Paul Stamets and others they'll have particular formulas, they're like, you need to take it one day and then take so many days off and take it every four days. And I don't want to get into whose model is what, but it's always something like that.

1 (1h 50m 15s):
Some pattern of use, usually not every day. And, and the claim is that it's not just, you know, sometimes people get benefit that first time when they take it, but they really say you need to be on it for a while. Like a few weeks in, you may start to notice through this pattern of, of using it. And you you're feeling the benefits on those off days, like the three or two days in between your active doses. So those are the claims. Again, we don't know that there's any truth to that working, but studies have not been done to model that. So that's a big caveat. We, as a field, I say we, as a, as the, the scientific field ha have not done the studies to really model, you know, what the real aficionados are claiming, you know, you know, where the therapeutic benefits come from that said, it's, it's, it's almost a surely, there's a good amount of placebo there, but, but the caveat to that is like almost everything in medicine or therapeutics there's is going to have some degree of placebo.

0 (1h 51m 16s):
The leaf effects are, are I have a colleague at Stanford, Alia Crum who has published really beautiful work on belief effects that show that essentially you give the same milkshake to two people. You are two groups of people. You tell them that one contains a lot of nutrients. The other is a low calorie shake. Their insulin response varies dramatically between the two or to be two groups, rather doing equivalent amounts of physical movement. And you tell one group that it's going to be good for them and help them lose weight. And they lose on average eight to 12 pounds more doing the exact same patterns of movement. So, and I think that these belief effects boil down to all sorts of kind of network-wide neuromodulation things that sort of,

1 (1h 51m 59s):
And that the work at Harvard suggesting that even if you don't have deception, you give a placebo and say, this is a sugar pill, right. You know, and tell them that, and they could still treat things. I think irritable well was the first thing they looked at. And so there's a huge, so there's a reality there, right? There's a necessity in developing drugs to make sure it's not only that, but, but in the actual practice of medicine, hopefully what you're always getting is some underlying direct efficacy. Plus the placebo that enhances that. Now it could be that this is the real question, is, is the microdosing, are those claims a hundred percent placebo or are they only part placebo and part real, you know, quote unquote effect.

1 (1h 52m 41s):
My bet is, and this is totally based on anecdotes that I think there is probably a reality to the antidepressant effects. I find that more intriguing because of the suffering with depression, right? Even if it's an, it wouldn't be as interesting as I think what we're doing with high dose psilocybin or psychedelics to treat depression, it would be if this is developed and there's reality, it would be more like a better, you know, perhaps a better SSRI, a better Prozac, which are similar, more tools than fewer tools in the toolbox. Right. And it shouldn't be that surprised, like even before the, going back to the tricyclics and the Mao inhibitors, going back to the fifties, like augmenting extracellular serotonin in one way or another, for many people leads to a reduction in depressive symptoms.

1 (1h 53m 31s):
It wouldn't be that crazy for chronically stimulating a subtype of serotonin receptor that you have an antidepressant effect. So I think if I had to put my bets on it, that there's, if there's anything real, it is in that category. Although I'm very open to like maybe there is something to the creativity, to the, you know, improved cognition, which covers many domains in and of itself. But my, my greatest hopes are on the, on the antidepressant effects that said in the big picture, I think all of the most interesting thing about psychedelics are the heroic doses. I mean, the idea that you can give something one to three times and you see improvements in depression months later, and in addiction, you know, over a year later, and with these, you know, people dealing with potentially terminal illness, I mean, it's still, I mean, I'm interested in big effects, right?

1 (1h 54m 24s):
And I don't think you're ever going to get the really big effects. There's also some concern that almost all of these common psych, the more common psychedelics even county MTMA, they have serotonin to be agonist effects and agonizing serotonin to be, has been shown to lead to heart valve formation problems, morphology issues. So Vavilov apathy. And so this is why Fenfen was pulled from the market, the dye drug. Yes. Very effective, et cetera. Right. Right. And it was the, the portion of that combination that had the, the, the serotonin to be activity. That was the problem.

1 (1h 55m 5s):
And so we don't know. So all of the, the toxicologists I've ever spoken to about this would, you know, say in cardiologists, they like, look, Hey, if there was some concern there, it's not applicable to the whole idea of you taking something a few times, therapeutically within a lifetime. But the idea of taking something like you know, twice a week for years. I mean, even the hippies back in the sixties, weren't doing that, right? Like there's not even these naturally. And even if they, even, if there was some heart valve disease problem, I, that stemmed from psychedelic use, who's connecting those dots. That's not showing up in the clinical charts for anyone to figure out.

1 (1h 55m 47s):
So they're in, and just theoretically, there is more of a concern if, if something's going to happen with, with heart valves, it's more likely that that those issues would arise when someone's taking these things. Like, yeah, let's say twice a week for the next five years. And so I do want to throw that out to people to really consider

0 (1h 56m 7s):
Right. Yeah. Something I hadn't heard before that in, in micro sounds safer micro dosing, as opposed to heroic or macro dosing, and yet, unless, and in the context of your lab and, and other labs doing similar work, you've got this people checking blood pressure. You've got people that are really monitoring your psychological and physical safety when people are out there. Micro-dosing, it sounds like there's the potential either through this serotonin five HT, two B receptor or other mechanism that maybe there could be some common cumulative negative effects. The, and I think that's an, a really important consideration. So I'm glad you brought it up. What about kids?

0 (1h 56m 48s):
So the brain is very plastic early in life. It becomes less plastic as we age. And although it maintain some degree of plasticity throughout the lifespan, the year 25, it not the year 25, but rather the age twenty-five years is sort of an inflection point where the rigidity of the nervous system seems to really take off. Of course, people don't wake up on their 25th birthday and find they have no neuro-plasticity. Whereas the day before they had a lot, these are, you know, it's plus or minus whatever it is a year or two, but depends on the individual. However, the, the young brain is very plastic and I could imagine there could be great risks who knows maybe even benefits, but I'm certainly not thinking about those.

0 (1h 57m 40s):
I'm mainly thinking about the risks of, for young people taking psychedelics. Are there any trials looking at people in clinical trials, this would be under the age of 18. Has anyone explored this in a rigorous way, given the potential to exacerbate psychotic symptoms and bipolar symptoms in some people, is there heightened risk of that? What's the story with age of use and psychedelics for therapeutic purposes? Yeah.

1 (1h 58m 8s):
There's no formal research, although I there's a very high chance that there will be. And so this is one of the very interesting things. Folks may not realize or appreciate about the FDA approval process. So the FDA already in multiple instances has signaled that there, they want to see those studies before. Well, not before it's approved as necessarily as you know, for, for adults, but they're going to eventually want to see, in fact, so the, the maps group, that's developing DMA for PTSD, they've already signaled that that's kind of a list of, of interest and there's even some incentives in the FDA pathways for, for incentivizing folks to explore that, that use in young people.

1 (1h 58m 56s):
I know in some of the work that I helped with in pushing siliciden into phase phase two B clinical research, the FDA, you know, said, well, why, why can't you give this to kids? It's like, are you aware that depression is a problem with, with, with adolescents? Like, you know, like, and it's really interesting because this FDA is very concerned about pseudo specificity. We idea they find pseudo, suppose you put out a drug and say, oh, this is good for men, but not women. This is good for black folks, but not white folks. And now sometimes there's a very good rationale for that. Like when we're talking about hormones and for a specific, you know, for, for, for, for men versus women, and there are certain, you know, issues, you know, you know, certain disease states like maybe sickle cell anemia, that's more relevant.

1 (1h 59m 50s):
Exactly. You know, but absent of something that they're very concerned about saying, oh, this is for this type of person, but not that type of person. So age is one of those things. And also this recognition, you know, much like the emphasis at, at NIH with, you know, with, you know, with Rodin studies and human studies that like, you can't just say you're studying men, or just when you need a rationale, if you're only step book,

0 (2h 0m 12s):
To be clear to people, there's, it's a recent switch, but there's a stipulation in every federally funded grant that both sexes w we don't refer to gender in scientific studies, unless it's a study of gender per se, we refer to sex, meaning biological sex. So that there's a stipulation that in order to receive and continue to receive funding, you have to do a studies on both males and females of that species, including humans.

1 (2h 0m 40s):
And at least, even if you're not powered for it, at least looking at that in exploratory analysis, like as a grant reviewer, I'm charged with looking at, you know, did they address like sex as a biologically relevant variable?

0 (2h 0m 53s):
Does the same drug have different effects in males versus females, right?

1 (2h 0m 57s):
And you could at least look at the trends, even again, if you're underpowered to look at those between subject type effects,

0 (2h 1m 3s):
Which is a great shift that didn't exist in, you know, 10 years ago, it sounds like we're both on grants panels as study section members that you didn't have to do that now and say it's an important biological variable. If you don't look at that, you essentially won't get your you're funding

1 (2h 1m 19s):
And age is a similar thing. So it'd be a whole idea like, man, if something could help kids, like what's the rationale. So I think there's going to be now, obviously you're going to have in those studies, at least just as much, probably more, it should be more of a cautious cautionary approach. It's probably going to be, you know, it would certainly whatever disease states are looked at are going to have to be probably treatment resistant, at least as a first step, you know? Hey. Yeah, yeah. And so all of that in the mix, but Hey, you know, if this stuff really helps people, you know, that are 25 or 30, like what's the rationale that it won't help a younger person, you know? And there's these generic kind of concerns about the developing nervous system is more susceptible to prob I mean cuts both ways.

1 (2h 2m 6s):
Cause it's also more plastic generally and adaptable, maybe resilient to injury in certain ways. But you know, you hear the rhetoric about kids, their brains and drugs, and it's like the developing brain is a special concern. So yeah, but I think we're going to be seeing research.

0 (2h 2m 24s):
That's it's interesting. I went to the high school that is infamous, sadly gone high school for having the highest degree, at least at one point of suicide suicide rate and a very large number of suicides. This was written up in the, in the times and elsewhere, it wasn't a very academically

1 (2h 2m 43s):
Successful school. It's a very academically,

0 (2h 2m 45s):
Very academically demanding school to the point where they've restricted. The kids will meet often at 6:30 AM or 6:00 AM before school for study groups and things of that sort. So some of it may relate to that, but I have to say that even prior to all that academic pressure, when I went there, it wasn't the pressure wasn't like that, that, you know, we had an unusual number of suicides for whatever reason and you know, and so the idea of kids being prescribed and what I want to be emphasized prescribed, not just using prescribed psychedelics for therapeutic purposes, I think might make some people bulk, but the idea of kids killing themselves should also make people balk.

0 (2h 3m 31s):
And so I'm relieved to hear that there's going to be a rational, scientific, safe clinical trial based exploration of this. I want to ask you about the current status of these drugs and compounds. I'm pretty active on social media, more so on Instagram than on Twitter. But as I have been on Twitter a little bit more recently, I've noticed that there's a lot of dialogue around your account and other people's accounts around a couple of themes related to psychedelics. First of all, what is the status of, of the transition to legality for, for prescription purposes?

0 (2h 4m 12s):
So medical doctors, MDs prescribing it legally for therapeutic purposes. That's the first question. The second question is what is the status as it relates to possession and criminal charges? So for a long time, I lived in Oakland where we were one day told not too long ago, it is now quote unquote decriminalized is what I was told that double-check people, but what does that mean? And then the other issue and the third question, and we can parse these one by one is this issue of, let's just say I'm aware of a lot of investor dollars going into companies that are essentially companies focused on psychedelics as therapeutics or psychedelics.

0 (2h 4m 58s):
Generally, I have to assume that they are investing in anticipation of a shift in the legal status. And there's a lot of interest now, like will psilocybin become a taxable thing just like marijuana. So let's start with other questions, like what is going on in the U S legally, is it illegal to possess and sell and use these compounds? My understanding is you can still go to jail for having these compounds in your possession or for selling, right?

1 (2h 5m 31s):
So even though it's a V the L the legal landscape is very different than with cannabis. There are some similarities. So one of the similarities is that regardless of what local municipal, you know, with city or state is decriminalized, and that, that word itself can mean many things. So the devil is some, some forms of decriminalization is close to what folks would call legalization. And others are like pretty weak, you know, just saying, we suggest that the police make it their lowest law enforcement priority, that they turn

0 (2h 6m 5s):
The other Jews,

1 (2h 6m 7s):
But even the cops can still choose to,

0 (2h 6m 9s):
But someone you get pulled over for one thing searched, and then by definition, if it's illegal and they find it right, and they have, they have to do something about,

1 (2h 6m 19s):
It would be determined by, you know, like both judicial precedent. Is it going to be thrown out and, and just the local prosecutor, you know, even before, like, are they going to choose, even at post arrest are gonna pursue to really, you know, go after those charges, make those charges stick. So I think that's still in play and is going to depend on the municipality, but like cannabis, federally, these are all scheduled one compound, which means they're illegal, which means they're illegal. The caveat to that just as, has always been the case since prop two 15 in California with cannabis and 96 is that, Hey, 99% of, of drug enforcement is done at the local and state level. The DEA, which is the federal law level of law enforcement is a tiny fraction of the arrests that got me.

1 (2h 7m 3s):
Most people that are arrested for any drug are done by local or state level authorities, but it's still technically, you know, illegal. And so you can, and they could potentially, depending on the ambiguity, the local law, they, even those local officials could charge you with a federal crime. And theoretically the feds could always come in now, although you'll, you know, again, a similar case with the whole cannabis history, it was the, the feds came in in the early days, but the folks that were basically highly visible, they went after Tommy Chong for selling bongs.

1 (2h 7m 43s):
But, you know, I remember him being on the tonight show one time. And I think it was back in the J Linah days, he says, but all along the Santa Monica, boardwalk, LA, every shop sells bombed. How did you go to prison for a half year for bonds? It's cause he was in there cause he's famous because he was, you know, Tommy Chong and, and there was some high profile cannabis groups of, you know, that were distributing it. And there were very vocal. Those were the ones rated by the DEA in the early days, not the ones kind of keeping to themselves, keeping it quiet and just doing their thing. So there's always the potential for selective enforcement and sort of, you know, like this initiative in Oregon, which is a state level legalization of siliciden therapy, which is really interesting, you know, part of their plan for two years is to figure out how to integrate with the federal level.

1 (2h 8m 30s):
And I don't know how that's going to go because like, unless you rewrite the controlled substances act, it seems like the best you're going to get is a, a tolerance from the federal government. And, you know, and that could be very, you know, Hey, you change administrations.

0 (2h 8m 48s):
And this is siliciden by a prescription from a medical doctor, or you're talking about therapists in who have master's degrees or PhDs or self appointed coaches or something like that, administering silicide. And, but without any oversight. So

1 (2h 9m 7s):
This is all getting figured out in the Oregon case. And again, there's that two year period of like, basically we're going to figure this out. And so with Oregon,

0 (2h 9m 18s):
I love the state of Oregon, but it's interesting how you have these pockets, Oregon. Vermont seems to be one, you know, you got these kinds of pockets where people are experimental with plant compounds. They seem to be green woodsy areas for, in at least in my mind, but there there's sort of a culture around plants and the use of plants as therapeutics.

1 (2h 9m 40s):
I find that with the west, just, just more geographically of more of the, the anti federalism, the anti, I mean the Oregon ranchers from several years ago that held up the, you know, the, the whatever wildlife place, you know, and that was a big showdown with the feds, you know, and the co you know, just kind of the west is kind of known for, you know, more of those issues. So you combined the two, the hippy dippy, California, Oregon vibe,

0 (2h 10m 7s):
It's becoming less hippy dippy the than, although it was that there's always been a tradition, not just in the culture around drugs, but certainly in academia and in tech, et cetera, that the west has been a place where people have tried to throw off traditionalism and kind of lineage and like who your parents are, what school you went to and, and the past as a determinant of what's next and exciting about the future. Whereas, and here we are an east coast institution guy and a west coast institution guy. I think that it's this idea of kind of innovation and the future versus do we stay grounded in history and tradition.

0 (2h 10m 52s):
And of course there are great institutions on both sides. What's interesting is that Hopkins Johns Hopkins medical school, I think of as a real like east coast academic institution, it is on the east coast, but here you are doing these very pioneering and important and exploratory studies in a, certainly not a hippy dippy environment, right?

1 (2h 11m 17s):
The psychiatry department, even amongst psychiatry departments and as a psychologist. And it's like, are your department psychiatry is certainly more conservative than psychology, even within academics, but even amongst psychiatry departments, it's a very conservative department.

0 (2h 11m 30s):
And so we got the law at the federal level. We've got the law at the state and local level, and then we've got this question of whether or not it's going to be physicians. So MDs people with PhDs or masters degrees or whether or not it will be kind of a free-for-all right for, for consumption and the coaches, the life coaches and, and, and the general public, I mean, cannabis, I'm not a pot smoker. I just, it it's never appealed to me. That's just me and my, my pharmacology, but, you know, you can buy cannabis most places in the U S without a ton of risk. It seems right.

0 (2h 12m 10s):
Are we going to see a time in which you can essentially go into a sh a shop on Abbot Kinney Boulevard in Venice, California, and, and right now you can go buy marijuana if you have a marijuana card. And it's my understanding. I see a lot of people going in and out of these stores, the police certainly have no problem with it. Is there gonna come a time where people, you can just go by psilocybin,

1 (2h 12m 33s):
Like do an Amsterdam and have for a long time? I think so at, at, at a certain point, and I don't know how long, I, it's hard to imagine our current level of drug criminalization holding up for, and I'm thinking like large spans of time, like really in a hundred years, are we going to be doing this 500 years? Like, how could that, it's not going to be sustained sustained

0 (2h 13m 5s):
In five years, for instance. So

1 (2h 13m 7s):
I don't think so in the United States, I, I do think eventually you're going to see something like that, cause there's going to be no way. And I, and I think we're going to, I hope that we're going to eventually come so strongly. We're going to move on from this model of criminalizing drugs, that we're really gonna focus on regulating drugs at the right level for that drug. And I like the word regulation than legalization. So, I mean, I could imagine what one day regulation smart regulation might mean for psychedelics. Maybe it could mean that there will be, you know, whether or not you have a diagnosis of a problem. It may be that even for personal exploration, you can do this legally, but you first have to maybe take a court, get a drive.

1 (2h 13m 51s):
And this has been, I'm not the first to say this get equivalent of a driver's license. You have to go to get some sort of training. Maybe your first number of experiences need to be with, with trained guides who can facilitate it. And then the, the public health information for anyone using this, that this is what riskier uses all use is going to have risks. This is what risky or uses. This is less risky use. These are the factors. So I think eventually we're going to be getting for any, but I would say the same thing for like methamphetamine and, and, and, you know, heroin and cocaine, like all of these drugs. It's hard to imagine the current approach of just feeding a black market and really exasperating a lot of the harms from drugs, you know, you know, that happens under the current model.

1 (2h 14m 36s):
It's hard to imagine that maintaining that, isn't the say, I think it should be in all of the seven Eleven's, you know, sold the kids at, at the other extreme. But I do think it's probably not going to be soon in the United States. I do want to make the major point that that even if psychedelics had never been made illegal, I think the exact, the trajectory of the medical research right now would still need to happen if it's effective as an antidepressant, like we need it to be, you know, there's all the evidence suggesting that whatever disorder we're talking about, the efficacy is going to be increased and the risks are going to be mitigated drastically. And the types of models we're talking about with the screening, with the preparation, with the integration of cognitive behavioral therapy, or what have you, depending on the disorder, you're treating with the integration afterwards with the professionals.

1 (2h 15m 28s):
So it, it, it, we would be doing it anyway. So it's not like this versus that. So I don't see it as a race between the decriminalization or legalization of these compounds versus their medical development. Some people who are psychedelic fans get all into a bunch about the medical development. They say, you guys want to, like, you want to, you want to keep it only for, you know, for your medical research in ivory tower, and you want to be in control of it as academics. And my take is I didn't make it illegal for anyone. We're only moving the needle in one direction. And again, even if it was already illegal and because, and I've done plenty of survey research of people reporting, they took mushrooms for fun or for personal exploration.

1 (2h 16m 12s):
And they said, my God, why am I smoking? And they quit smoking 20 years because of it, or it's helped with their depression, or it's helped with them overcoming alcoholism or these debates. Sometimes that happens out of the blue when people use psychedelics, none, the less, obviously the efficacy rates are going to be higher when you bring it into these medical models and it's going to be safer. So we going to, you know, so we need to be pushing that. And my best guess is that MTMA is going to be approved within the next three years and for prescription

0 (2h 16m 41s):
By a physician yes.

1 (2h 16m 43s):
In, and not just, you know, take two and call me in the morning, but in the clinics, the way that those, those PTSD trials are being run. So the MD may, would be approved for PTSD and every disorder needs to be looked at separately and it's going to only be approved for those things. Now there's these questions.

0 (2h 16m 58s):
It was in a legalized and regulated, or, you know, now we're getting into the nuance. I think when people hear it's going to be approved in two years, they think that there'll be able to buy and sell and use MTMA without legal consequences. And I do not think that's going to be the situation is not the way it is. And I will say that I think the quote, unquote, psychedelic community, I mean, th they've been doing what they want to, and we'll carry on doing what they want to anyway, right? It's not like the Le the legal status has, has prevented them from doing what they're doing. In fact, unlike Lee Erie and Timothy Leary and Huxley, and, and, you know, and, and some of the others that were very vocal and lost their jobs, and some even went to jail, et cetera.

0 (2h 17m 42s):
I mean, you got a lot of public figures now, like McKenna and others who are just basically out there talking about psychedelics Michael Pollan, who's more of a writer, foodie guide, gone, psychedelic dabbler writer guy. I know he's a, he's kind of a polymath, but you know, the league, the legal status didn't seem to hinder their, at least online careers. I don't know. I don't know. I haven't looked at their bank accounts, but I'm imagining they're doing just fine. Right. So the fact that the work is happening inside of big institutions, I think it's important that you point out, and I'm just trying to underscore that that's, that's in no way, antagonistic to what people are doing. It's in support of a different sort of mission, which is to explore the validity in different contexts in a really controlled way, which I really, you know, it's, it's, I think it's a really important mission.

0 (2h 18m 35s):
I want to make sure that I ask you about the other really important mission that you're involved in with respect to psychedelics, which is not about depression per se, but it's about neurological and neurologic injury or head injury. I realize it's early days for this, but I think there's a lot of concussion out there. Sadly. There's a lot of TBI, traumatic brain injury. Yeah. Not just from sports. I think people sometimes forget that it's not the major source of traumatic head injury is not football. It's not hockey, it's not boxing. It's not any of that stuff. It's construction workers and it's people. I mean, if you've ever seen the helmets that construction workers wear, I mean the deck hammer, Jack hammer, just, yeah.

0 (2h 19m 18s):
I have a colleague that works on this in bioengineering. And when you look at the, you know, we always think sports, but there are many people who make a living in a way that is over time is detrimental to their brain. And they don't have the option of just not being a professional athlete or something of that sort. And if they're not

1 (2h 19m 36s):
Doing the construction, someone else needs someone else to do

0 (2h 19m 38s):
It. Right. And we forget for some reason. And I too, I didn't occur to me until I heard it. Like the people who are doing construction and then of course, with bike accidents and falls and things like that as well. So military, absolutely. So w what do you think is the potential for these compounds particular psilocybin, but other compounds as well for the treatment and possible even reversal of neurological injuries and what, what sorts of things are you excited to do in that room?

1 (2h 20m 10s):
Yeah, so this is definitely on the more exploratory end. So it's based upon, so, you know, this is sort of beyond the, the improvement of psychiatric disorders like depression or depression, anxiety associated with a terminal illness or a substance use disorder, the addiction. So those are sort of psychiatric disorders. So this is, you know, these, you know, there are anecdotes of, of people saying that that psychedelics have helped heal their brain. You know, they've been in one of these situations, like in sports, a sport where there's repetitive head impact, and they're claiming that, you know, using psychedelics has actually improved their cognitive function, for example, improve their memory, including it improve their, their, their mood.

1 (2h 21m 6s):
But, but it's kind of more of the, you know, the cognitive function, things like memory are now caveat is if you've successfully improved someone's depression, you can get some cognitive improvement too, but that's a more of a, a weaker, more indirect effect. But if you take these anecdotes and you combine it way across orders of analysis to the rodent research from several labs, like David Olson, Brian Roth, these folks that have shown different forms of neuro-plasticity unfolding after like, sort of post acutely. So after, in the days, following the administration of psychedelic compounds across a variety of about Delcam mounts, and even some non psychedelic structural analogs that you see these different forms of neuro-plasticity.

1 (2h 21m 57s):
So the growth of dendrites and new connections being formed w with, with different neurons, so that those effects may be at play and they improve in the psychiatric treatments that we're dealing with. That ha we don't know that it seems like a decent guests, and we're going to be figuring out whether that's the case, but another potential that, that sets up is that maybe that's, what's going on with, with w w with these claims of improvements from neuron, neurological issues, that there's actually, you know, repair of the brain from injuries underlying, you know, things that, you know, situations where there's repetitive head impact, perhaps there's a potential for, for helping folks recover from stroke and disorders like that.

1 (2h 22m 52s):
There's a wide variety of disorders. Now that it's a bit of magic and a bit of like, it's, it's something that the enthusiasts kind of can do some hand waving and claim that this is already known. It is more exploratory, but what I'm hoping to do with some work with retired athletes who have been exposed, but by the nature of their sport, for example, in an AA athletes in the UFC who have been exposed to repetitive head impacts like a lot of sports, a lot of, you know, sports expose people to, and who are retired from the sport and are suffering from say depression, which can impart result from those types of, of, of that history of head impact.

1 (2h 23m 37s):
See if we can fix the depression, but then also as a cherry on top, in a more exploratory Tory aim, see if we can have evidence of, of improvement in cognitive function and associate like using MRI, see if it affects gray matter over time, these types of things to see if they're actually some evidence of this improved, like this more direct repair of the brain. But it, again, it is very sort of like we've got some rodent data, we've got some human anecdotes. We,

0 (2h 24m 7s):
We, we will acknowledge it's early days. And we look forward to seeing the data. I appreciate how cautious you are intended of you are, you're not drawing any conclusions, I think from a purely logical and somewhat mechanistic perspective. I mean, if we assume that lack of ability to focus or degradation and mood is the reflection of neurons in the brain. I think we can agree on that. Some dialogue between neurons and the brain and that what needs to be changed is the nature of that dialogue. AK neuroplasticity. We know that reordering of neurocircuitry require in the adult requires these things like intense focus, followed by rest, et cetera.

0 (2h 24m 53s):
But the basis for that, like beneath focuses, the mechanism is a mechanism rather beneath the bin that we call deep breast is a mechanism and those mechanisms are neuromodulator driven. So to me, you're, I'm not reviewing your grant, but from a rational perspective, it seems that drugs that increase certain neuromodulators like serotonin or dopamine in a, in a controlled way, and then coupling that with learning of some sort of sensory input of some sort, it makes sense that that would lead to re, could re I should say, lead to reordering of circuitry that would allow for better thinking, better mood, many of the same things that you've observed in the clinical trials for, for depression.

0 (2h 25m 42s):
So the rationale is really strong. I think that's a very exciting area. You know, I, I get asked all the time about TBI and traumatic brain injury, and right now, you know, it's kind of there, isn't a whole lot that people can do, and people are dabbling in the space of, you know, hyperbaric chambers and people will do sauna and breath work. And, you know, and people are kind of, you know, clipping at the margins of what really is a problem that resides deep to the skull. So I think I just want to applaud the, the exploration. I think it's great provided that exploration is being done in a controlled way. It sounds like that's what you're doing with the UFC. Yes.

1 (2h 26m 19s):
So that's that, you know, we, we, they, they were really gracious and had myself and a few of my colleagues out to their headquarters in Vegas, impressive place. And it's in process, you know, there's a dialogue going on there. I'm hopeful that there's going to be some, some work with them, but it's, it's in process now in terms of exploring that there's a real interest and I'm, I'm just really impressed by the organization and their commitment to athlete health. And

0 (2h 26m 45s):
I am a C yeah, I am too. We, we have a colleague out there we're doing a little bit of work with them, Dunkin French. Who's a serious academic in his own. Right. And I think when people hear UFC, they just think about the octagon and fighting and, you know, pay-per-view fights and things, but in talking with them, and I'm sure you've had these discussions as well, that they are very much interested in the health and longevity of their fighters. They are also interested in the health and longevity of their fighters, being a template for how to treat traumatic brain injury and improve human performance in other sports and in the general public. And I think it's not an image of the UFC that is commonly comes to mind cause they haven't been, you know, particularly verbal about it in the press.

0 (2h 27m 28s):
But I think it's great. They're bringing in academics. I mean, geeks like us going into the, out to the UFC performance center. I mean, you do MMA, but I'm basically just a geek walking through the place. But the fact that they're interested in talking to scientists is really I'm biased here, but a point in their favor along the lines of other groups and individuals that have impacted the space that you're working in, in this pioneering of, of the psychedelic space, you know, a few years ago, I think if someone submitted a grant saying, I want to study how silicide bin impacts human depression, I'm guessing having worked on these panels before that the, the response might have been closer to, well, we need to do a lot of studies in roads and a lot of studies in primates.

0 (2h 28m 13s):
And then maybe just, maybe we could explore these drugs because the national institutes of health actually has a, a whole Institute devoted to addiction right. Of the exploring compounds only in terms of their negative effects. Right. Which is very,

1 (2h 28m 28s):
Which is where I've gotten all of my NIH funding, which is so

0 (2h 28m 30s):
Interesting. Right. And it's a super important Institute. I want to be clear. There are amazing people there, but philanthropy and foundation have been very important in supporting pioneering research. And so maybe we just talk a little bit about, about that. So your lab receives funding from taxpayer dollars through the national institutes of health, is that mainly where your, your, your funding comes from?

1 (2h 28m 56s):
So our group has gotten some funding from like say the national Institute on drug abuse, NIDA for some, a small subset of the psychedelic work, but only for some work geared towards understanding these things as drugs of abuse course, when you do a study though, you can show us how they

0 (2h 29m 15s):
Explore how they're bad,

1 (2h 29m 18s):
But when you're doing that, you can explore like, you know, the good stuff too, you know, but, but the, the large majority of the work and the most interesting work has been funded by philanthropy, private, no, I, I still have some grant support from NIDA outside of psychedelics. I'm shifting more and more of my, my time towards focusing only on psychedelics. And in fact, us getting the, the, the center level funding from some really, you know, big picture philanthropists like helped me to start to make that transition. But groups like the, have to research organization, Dennis McKenna, which is one of the founding members, the brother turns mechanic, who is by the way, an ethnobotanist, that's what it's designed to use.

1 (2h 30m 4s):
Ethnobotany studying the, the, essentially the anthropology of, of, of, of psychoactive plant use. So

0 (2h 30m 12s):
You can get a degree in that. Yeah,

1 (2h 30m 14s):
Yeah, yeah. You know, hanging out with cultures and studying their use of these compounds in the traditional ways at Hopkins

0 (2h 30m 22s):
There's that degree exists at Johns.

1 (2h 30m 24s):
I don't, I don't think that degree exists at Hopkins, but I mean, the, the kind of the most, and, you know, as you, as you'll, as you know, from academia, I'm, I'm not, you know, sometimes folks, I'm not sure how many people's PhD is actually in ethnobotany or something else. But the real focus is like, my degree is general experimental psychology

0 (2h 30m 46s):
Kids out there just decided they're going to major in ethnobotany. But, you know,

1 (2h 30m 50s):
I mean, one of the pioneers of the psychedelic era before Leary and before, and actually he was late, even for the human researchers, like folks like Humphrey, Yasmin, and Abraham Hoffer and Sidney Cohen were earlier. But even before those folks, Richard Shelties at Harvard, he was, I mentioned him earlier in the conversation discovered all of this there's these various tribes using Ionesco or Yagi a different name for the same thing throughout south America. And these DMT containing snuffs and all of this. So, you know, that was, you know, ethnobotany this kind of th this kind of intersection of anthropology and these psychoactive plant compounds. So, so they have to research Institute, which Dennis is a, is a, is a founding, an active member of a board member.

1 (2h 31m 39s):
They have funded a lot of our early work. There's also an organization called the, the Beckley Institute based in England that a lady Amanda fielding is that has been the head of that has a, they provided the first funding for our psilocybin smoking cessation research and the Haftar came in and provided subsequent funding, but it's, and then there are other groups that council and spiritual practices, a great guy named Bob, Jesse funded some of the original work at Hopkins, looking at the nature of mystical experience outside of treating disease states or disorders. But just understanding these, like, like people take these compounds and astonishingly, you know, frequently will say that was the most important everything I've ever experienced.

1 (2h 32m 26s):
What the hell is that?

0 (2h 32m 27s):
Yeah, I had someone mentioned recently. I think this might surprise people a little bit. It's certainly surprised me. I had a friend who adores his children. He's got three children. He adores his children happy marriage. Great, great father. They're both great parents. And he told me that as part of a clinical trial, he had a DMT experience that he claims. He said, I'd love to tell you that it, that the birth of my children was as profound, but at that was a more profound experience than the birth of my children, any one of them and all of them combined. And I was like, wow, I've never done DMT. But I was like, wow, that's a pretty strong statement. Now he did it in the context of one of these, you know, clinical explorations, I assume that was part of a legal clinical trial.

0 (2h 33m 10s):
But the, I mean, that's saying something, it's saying something. I mean, he's a very rational, very grounded guy, otherwise, but so philanthropy foundations, and then,

1 (2h 33m 25s):
And sorry, just cause I can't skip it our center <inaudible> I see that's like we, I mean the Haftar group, the Beckley group, I mean, these are wonderful. I mean, these are people that have been holding the flame alive during the darkest hours. Like the same thing with MD, with the maps organization on more on the MTMA side, like holding that candle during the darkest years that, you know, so we've, but you know, smaller organizations connected to smaller, but growing over time, you know, pockets of wealth. But, you know, we basically limped on limped along on a wing and a prayer until recently when we got the $17 million gift so that we could create a nominal center.

1 (2h 34m 5s):
And as you know, basically to the university, that means you get a certain number of dollars and a lot of them, you can call yourself a center. You know, it's a capital investment, you know, staff, you know, equipment salary, which is the always been the huge thing for us, but the $17 million get gift, which was split between the, the, the, the Cohen foundation. So Steven and Alexander Cohen, and they covered half of it. And the other half, the Tim Ferris collaborative, basically Tim and a few friends ponied up that the, you know, divided the rest of that half of that $17 million gift and came together to just, I mean, it just it's completely transformed our, the work that we've done in our ability to, you know, like to fully delve into this area and not worry that like, oh, if I focus on this, rather than putting another three nada grants on some other topic that may or may not get funded, like if I focus too much on the psychedelics, am I putting my career at jeopardy?

1 (2h 35m 6s):
But like, so

0 (2h 35m 7s):
We are now not only a tenured professor, you also a full indoubt, right? So that came by the way, when you say somebody is a fully endowed professor, or to be very clear what that means, that means that there's funding

1 (2h 35m 18s):
All of the above, but now

0 (2h 35m 20s):
I have no knowledge of your particular situation, but you, you probably do. But sure. The, in these, what we're essentially saying is that funding, which does not change somebody's salary level. I just want to be clear because I think the general public isn't, there's no reason why they would understand all the nuts and bolts of how this works. Yeah. Academia is weird because we're not talking about increasing. We're not talking about an endowment that were philanthropy that went to increase mats salary. That that's something that's set at the university level. It's always been said in it is w at least it's still true now, which is that, you know, nobody goes into science for the money, at least not at the academic level, not at in academia, but allows people to devote more of their time and energy to these exploratory realms, like psychedelic research or the case of my lab, the work that we're doing with David Spiegel's lab on, on respiration breathwork and hypnosis for modulating brain states.

0 (2h 36m 25s):
These are not typically areas that the national institutes of health and other major organizations have institutions set up to support. Now, there is an exciting initiative, which is the NCCH, which is complimentary health used to be in cam

1 (2h 36m 41s):
And NIH.

0 (2h 36m 43s):
And now we're not just throwing out acronyms just to, you know, to bat back and forth acronyms. But I think what we're looking, what we're seeing now, and is a movement toward science and scientists and clinicians, and the general public and philanthropy being engaged in this dialogue, which says, okay, there are problems in the world, depression, head trauma, psychological trauma, PTSD, ADHD. These problems clearly exist. The solutions are going to involve that are going to involve nutrition, supplementation, social connection. However, there are drugs, there are compounds that can change the brain and allow the brain to change at circuitry through experience and psychedelics are one of, of several others, but one of the, you know, powerful leavers, it sounds like.

0 (2h 37m 35s):
And, and I just want to say that I think the reason I reached out to you and I'm so excited to sit down and chat with you is because I see very few people inside the halls of academia who have thrown their arms around this issue of psychedelics in a way, and gone through the trouble of trying to find the funding to get it done, gone through the trouble of trying to set up clinical trials. I know what's involved in doing this. It's so complicated. It's so time-consuming and painstaking, and you've made real progress. I mean, you guys are publishing papers. There's a new dialogue emerging that isn't just books on bookshelves and, and, you know, psych psychedelic, psycho, not gurus on the internet who also play an important role, but you're really moving this field forward.

0 (2h 38m 24s):
And I know there are others as well. There are colleagues in England and others as well. We will, we acknowledge them. But I just want to say personally that I'm like inspired and impressed by the way that you've gone about this and the level of rigor. I mean, when I ask you a question about serotonin, most people will just kind of kick back to me. Well, yeah, you got receptors and you got a ligand, but amine, it's clear to me that you care about the details and that you care about the future of this area. And we also really care about these patients and these individuals. So I know I'm speaking on behalf of a ton of people now, and in the future that don't even know what they're going to receive as a consequence of this.

0 (2h 39m 5s):
I just want to voice a real sincere thank you for, for that effort. It's like your lab and your work matters. And that's a really special and unique thing.

1 (2h 39m 19s):
I had a good colleague in fact, shared some grants support under the multi PI system years ago. And, and she, she actually took a job at, at, at NIH as a, as a, as a review officer. And I remember her telling me, you know, and she actually left when she had multiple <inaudible>. So it's like, she didn't know that

0 (2h 39m 36s):
We are, the ones are kind of the big, big grants that every, every card carrying, it's a mark of respect in our community to have one or several of these. Yeah,

1 (2h 39m 47s):
Yeah, yeah. I mean, you know, and it's like, you, you eat what you kill and academia gets to what we were talking about later. It's like, you don't make more money by pulling more grants, but you're able to pay the salary that like the university doesn't pay you, your salary, your, your, it goes through them, right. You're just able to do more work. Yeah. And you're able to like, and if you don't pull in the grants to cover your salary, your job can come to an end. Even if you're tenured at a place like Hopkins, they can do tricks, like slowly lower your salary over the <inaudible>. They just take away your space. Yeah. And they put you in a closet and give you no support for trainees and basically make life hell for you. So you have to drive a cab in Baltimore and call yourself a full professor at Hopkins truthfully, but you may not have no ability to share their gun.

1 (2h 40m 34s):
But, but yeah, I remember one of the things this colleague has said, who is successful, but left on top said, I really don't know that I'm making a difference in the world. And she did some great memory research and, and, and, and, and connected to drugs also connected to aging. But she, she said, I don't, you know, I don't, I don't feel the impact of what I'm doing in the real world. And it's, you know, unfortunately there for a lot of academia, what we do at stays in the ivory tower, you know, the world is, you know, a messed up place. And like a lot of this doesn't disseminate. And, and because of the various structures, the way the world is set up and thankfully this, I mean, because the work that, that our group, as well as a few others around the world over the last 20 years, it's like, you do have an emerging psychedelic startup industry now with billions of dollars of investment.

1 (2h 41m 25s):
And yet that's going to turn into both good and bad, like, you know, it's upping the ante. Like there's going to be a lot of good and bad that comes from that. But any new technology is going to result in that, but we've got, siliciden designated for two separate entities as a breakthrough therapy by the FDA. And people may not realize an MTMA is designated as a breakthrough therapy for him for PTSD. This is a really big deal. That's a very high, I mean, pharma companies would pay millions of dollars to get their new drug, a designation like that. And what it means is it is early research Russia saying it shows a high potential for treating disorders that don't have very good treatments.

1 (2h 42m 7s):
So we're in, we're probably, you know, again, a few years away from both MD main, probably a year or two, after that siliciden and being treated for PTSD and depression, respectively, this is, you know, we have to wait for the phase three studies, but if the results hold up any, even if the effect size is like half of what we're seeing now, it's still gonna be a lot larger than what you're seeing with the traditional medications. And so it's going to be approved if the data hold up and it probably will from my judgment. So I feel like what I'm doing is actually having a positive impact in the world in a way that, and I feel, I feel lucky that I got interested in area that happens to plug into a place in the world where there is that opportunity where some, you know, great colleagues and friends are focused on areas where I wish they had the opportunity for their work to be disseminated.

1 (2h 42m 60s):
I wished that, I mean, I was lucky to be interviewed on, on 60 minutes because of this work. And I was like, oh my God, I know so many, there's a bit of a, you know, imposter syndrome, like, oh my God, I know so many scientists that deserve, you know, more so than me to be had that level of exposure. But if you happen to be in that place where it's, you got to do your best to, to, to make it work, to take advantage of that luck and that intersection of the world and to push it. And, you know, I've been lucky, but also did take a bit of a leap of faith early on. I did have some, you know, advisers that told me, like, you've got a really promising pedigree early on, like, are you sure you want to focus my time on the psychedelic stuff?

0 (2h 43m 43s):
You've been, you've embraced risk. I mean, I think that, I mean, the world's changed in since in 2020, certainly, but, you know, channels like social media podcasts and things of that sort, you know, your exposure is, is because people are interested in these topics. And that's why people like myself, or are interested in talking to you. I mean, you know, at Stanford, there are now a few labs starting to explore psychedelics more at the mechanistic level, but so in animal models, excellent labs. But also I can imagine because of the pioneering work that you've done at Hopkins, it'll start to become more common. I'm certain that people are going to have questions about how to get in contact with you and learn more.

0 (2h 44m 28s):
If people have trauma, PTSD, depression, you know, you, it's likely that they're going to start seeking ways in which they can potentially participate in clinical trials. You're very active on Twitter, active. I should say you've got other obligations, but where you are active on social media, you're active on Twitter. It's, it's drug, it's at drug down score researcher. Right, right, right.

1 (2h 44m 52s):
Okay. So Gunnar score researcher. That's how to find me

0 (2h 44m 56s):
Great account by the way, Matthew and I recently got into a dialogue there about some of the deeper effects of psychedelics in the literature versus how they're being discussed in the general public. And I follow his account. And it's a really wonderful account for whether or not you have a science background or not. If people are into, and I'm going to try and persuade you to be more active on Instagram. But I don't know if I'll succeed in that. You're a busy guy and I get it. I'm running a lab too. I get it. You're busy, but, but we drug down score researcher there as well. The same handle your lab at Hopkins is pretty straightforward to find through a Google search of your name, Matthew Johnson, Johns Hopkins university, are there portals for people to, to explore clinical trials participation in clinical trials of various kinds.

1 (2h 45m 45s):
Yeah. And so in our group, so you go to Hopkins, psychedelic.org, that's the website. And if you can't remember that, just Johns Hopkins psychedelic. Yeah. And you're going to find us, it'll be the first thing that pops up. And we have, trust me if we have a study on something it's going to be on that website. That means

0 (2h 46m 6s):
He's very being very polite. So I will be a little bit more aggressive. Say, don't email him directly. He won't see that email wait until there's a posting for a study and then sign up

1 (2h 46m 15s):
With the correct portal. And I tried to get back to those emails, but frankly, and it's it's cause you know, I'm lucky the area has taken off so much, but there are many days where I simply get so many requests that I can't do the research. Yeah. If I answer all the, so, so yeah, trust me if there and something that a lot of folks don't get and being an academia like we are, it's easy to forget how people don't understand. We don't realize this. This is experimental research. It's FDA approved as an experiment, you know, so we're working towards formal FDA approval for straight up clinical use. But right now, someone can't bring me a case of some idiosyncratic thing and, and say, I'm suffering from this complex.

1 (2h 46m 57s):
Constellate, you're not a clinician and I'm not. And even if I was, I wouldn't be able to treat them with silicide and or to send them anywhere that was legal to, to, to, to, to take it. You know? So if, if we're going to be treating you it's, it has to be, or anyone else in the United States or most other countries for that matter, it's going to have to be under the guise of a very specific protocol, this number of milligrams to treat PTSD, to treat major depressive disorder, to treat, you know, treatment resistant tobacco use disorder. So nicotine addiction, very specific studies. This is not one off treatment.

1 (2h 47m 39s):
And folks say like, oh, I can pay to go out to Baltimore. If you see my own, my son has this, you know, complex, like in their tragic cases. But you, so if you're interested in a study, go to our website, if it's not on their website, you know, we don't have a study on it. There are going to be forthcoming study. So I'm going to be starting studies on opioid addiction and PTSD and an LSD study for chronic pain. The day that those are open for recruitment, they're going to be up on our website. So that's where you look to see everything. And in fact, I would just recently, a couple days ago, put up a couple of surveys say is also where we post links, our survey studies. So if you've, if you've had psychedelics and you've taken them for therapeutic intent intent for PTSD, or for depression or anxiety, you can find a link.

1 (2h 48m 24s):
And also if you've done breath work for those reasons, we have a link for a study of that type up there now, which is a holotropic style, very psychedelic type of, of a breathing technique that can lead to some of these similar experiences. So it's up there more broadly outside of our group, because there's a growing number of groups in the U S doing this Rihanna in Europe, doing this research, but you can go to clinical trials.gov. And if you look in for the, the main search term of, of silicide Ben or MTMA or psychedelic plug in those terms, you can get a list of the growing number. I mean, I think there's, I think there's over 40.

1 (2h 49m 3s):
Maybe it's been a while. There might be over 50 now. I don't know, but stays with just suicide and going on right now on clinical trials.gov. So check out clinical trials.gov to see what's going on, but it's going to be, if you're going to do anything legal, it's going to be in the context of a very specific study. It's not going to be one-off treatment. Right. Okay.

0 (2h 49m 23s):
And I should say, just, not just legal, but also supported in the right framework that you described of having a team, et cetera. Obviously people will do what they will do and seeing know,

1 (2h 49m 38s):
Oh yeah, go ahead. I will say if people, I never encourage people to take drugs of any, I don't encourage caffeine use every drug has its risk. I encourage

0 (2h 49m 45s):
My own caffeine.

1 (2h 49m 48s):
I'm drinking up right now. This is great.

0 (2h 49m 50s):
There's a very strong Mata is what we're drinking. It does not lead to a alteration in my perception of, of self to the extent that we talked about earlier. However, this conversation, wasn't a good example of how we can enter a perceptual bubble. I learned so much about psychedelics and the future of this for sake of mental health and other aspects of health. Matt, thank you so much for your time for your knowledge. And I think you put it best earlier for holding the candle in a very dark time. And then now there's light.

1 (2h 50m 25s):
Thank you. Well, thanks for helping to spread that light. And I really appreciate what you've been doing. This is a great, great medium that you have going on. So thank you for doing it.

0 (2h 50m 35s):
No, it's my pleasure. Thank you. Thank you for joining me for my conversation with Dr. Matthew Johnson. If you're enjoying this podcast and learning from it, please subscribe to our YouTube channel. In addition, you can leave comments and suggestions for future podcast topics and guests in the comment section on YouTube as well. Please consider subscribing on apple and on Spotify and on apple, you can leave us up to a five star review and a comment.

1 (2h 51m 2s):
Please also check out the sponsors that we mentioned at the beginning of today's episode. That's a terrific way to support our podcast.

Thorne (2h 51m 8s):
In addition, many of you have questions about supplements. We've partnered with thorn that's thorn T H O R N E because thorn has the highest quality standards with respect to the quality of ingredients in their supplements, as well as precision about the amounts of those ingredients within their supplements. If you go to thorn.com/u/huberman, you can see all the supplements that I take and you can get 20% off any of those supplements as well as 20% off. Any of the other supplements that you find on the thorn site. So if you enter the thorn site through that portal portal, excuse me, thorn.com/u/huberman, you'll get 20% off any of the products that Thorne makes.

1 (2h 51m 48s):
Also, we have a Patrion it's patrion.com/andrew Huberman. And there you can support the podcast at any level that you like. And last but not least, thank you for your interest in science.