0 (0s):
Welcome to the Duberman lab podcast, where we discuss science and science-based tools for everyday life. I'm Andrew Huberman, and I'm a professor of neurobiology and ophthalmology at Stanford school of medicine. Today, I have the pleasure of introducing Dr. Craig Heller as my guest on the Huberman lab podcast, Dr. Heller is a professor of biology and neurosciences at Stanford. His laboratory works on a range of topics, including thermal regulation, down syndrome and circadian rhythms. Today, we talk about thermal regulation, how the body heats and cools itself and maintains what we call homeostasis, which is an equilibrium of processes that keeps our neurons healthy, our organs functioning well.

0 (45s):
And as Dr. Heller teaches us, thermal regulation can be leveraged in order to greatly increase our performance in athletics and mental performance as well. Learning to control your core body temperature is one of the most, if not the most powerful thing that you can do to optimize mental and physical performance, regardless of the environment that you're in. He also dispels many common myths about heating and cooling the body, including the idea that putting a cold pack on your head or neck is the optimal way to cool down quickly. And in fact, as Dr Heller tells us it actually can be counterproductive and lead to hyperthermia. It's a fascinating conversation from which I learned a tremendous amount of new information, and we didn't even get into the other incredibly interesting work that Dr.

0 (1m 31s):
Heller does on down syndrome and circadian rhythms and sleep. So we hope to have him back in the future to discuss those topics. As you'll soon. See Dr. Heller is a wealth of knowledge on all things, human physiology, biology, and human performance. It's no surprise then that he's been chair of the biology department at Stanford for many years, as well as director of the human biology program. So if you're interested in human biology and how to improve your performance in any context or setting athletic or otherwise, I think you'll very much enjoy today's conversation before we begin. I'd like to emphasize that this podcast is separate from my teaching and research roles at Stanford. It is however, part of my desire and effort to bring zero cost to consumer information about science and science related tools to the general public in keeping with that theme, I'd like to thank the sponsors of today's podcast.

ROKA (2m 21s):
Our first sponsor is Roca. Rocha makes sunglasses and eyeglasses that are of the absolute, highest quality I've spent a lifetime working on the visual system. And I can tell you that the visual system has to go through a lot of work in order to gain clarity of what you see when there are shadows, when you go into different types of indoor lighting and so on, and a lot of glasses don't work well because you put them on and then you're in bright light and you can see fine, but then you move into a shadow and then you have to take them off and they don't adjust, or they don't adjust quickly enough with Roca. Their eyeglasses and sunglasses are designed with the visual system biology in mind. So you always see things with perfect clarity. The glasses are also terrific because they're very lightweight and they won't slip off your face. If you're exercising, if you're running or biking. In fact, they were designed for the purpose of being able to be worn while you're engaging in those sorts of activities, or simply working at your desk. I happen to wear readers at night when I drive or when I work and I love their sunglasses, cause I can wear them anywhere. And also the aesthetics of their sunglasses and eyeglasses are terrific. Unlike a lot of other performance glasses that frankly make people look like cyborgs. The aesthetics on Rokos are really terrific. You could wear them anywhere. You'd like to go. If you'd like to try Roca glasses, you can go to roca.com. That's R O k.com and enter the code Huberman to save 20% off your first order. That's Rocha, R O k.com. Enter the code Huberman at checkout

Inside Tracker (3m 42s):
today's podcast is also brought to us by inside tracker. Inside tracker is a personalized nutrition platform that analyzes data from your blood and DNA to help you better understand your body and help you reach your health goals. I'm a big believer in getting regular blood work done. And now with the advent of modern DNA tests, you can also analyze your DNA to see what you ought to be doing for your immediate and long-term health. We hear a lot these days about optimization, optimizing hormones, optimizing your metabolism, optimizing this, optimizing that, but unless, you know, the measurements of metabolic factors, hormones, and other things that are in your blood and DNA, you don't know what to optimize with inside tracker. It makes all of that very easy. They can come to your house to take the blood and DNA test, or you can go to a nearby clinic. They send you the information and you take those results. And unlike a lot of laboratories doing blood work out there in DNA tests, they have a simple platform, a dashboard that walks you through your results and helps you identify what sorts of nutritional or behavioral or other types of practices you might want to incorporate into your life in order to positively impact your immediate and long-term health. It's a very easy system to use, and you will gain a ton of information simply by doing that test, whether or not you end up making changes to what you're doing or not. If you'd like to try inside tracker, you can go to inside tracker.com/huberman to get 25% off any of inside trackers plans just use the code Huberman at checkout

AG1 (5m 7s):
today's episode is also brought to us by athletic greens. Athletic greens is an all-in-one vitamin mineral probiotic drink. I've been using athletic greens since 2012. So I'm delighted that they're sponsoring the podcast. The reason I started using athletic greens and the reason I still take athletic greens once or twice a day is because it covers all of my nutritional basis. In fact, if people ask me and I often am asked, what supplement should I take? I always recommend athletic greens. And in fact, if you were to take just one supplement, I recommend athletic greens for the simple reason that the vitamins minerals and probiotics and adaptogens cover all your nutritional basis and the probiotics optimize gut brain health, which we now know is essential for mood for immune system function for metabolic function. It's just got so many great things in there. I really do feel better when I'm drinking my athletic greens. I mix mine up with some water, a little bit of lemon juice. And as I mentioned before, I'll drink it once or twice a day. If I travel, I might even drink it a third time, just because of the additional stress on my mind and body. If you'd like to try athletic greens, you can go to athletic greens.com/huberman to claim a special offer. They'll give you five free travel packs. So these are the little travel packs that make it really easy to mix up athletic greens. If you're on the plane or in the car, and they'll give you a year supply of vitamin D three K two, there is now ample evidence that vitamin D three K2 is supportive of the immune system and a bunch of other biological functions and K2 has been shown to be important for cardiovascular health. So again, if you go to athletic greens.com/huberman, you'll get the athletic greens, the five free travel packs and the year supply of vitamin D three K2.

0 (6m 45s):
And now for my discussion with Dr. Craig Heller, great to have you here. It's good to be here. It's been a long time coming. I know that I, and many people have a lot of questions about the use of cold. So one of the things that's happened in recent years is that for many reasons, people have become interested in things like taking cold showers and taking ice baths for many different purposes. Sometimes this is introduced as just a general health tonic, you know, but other times people get specific about how it can improve resilience or it can improve one's metabolism.

0 (7m 27s):
Could you just tell me a little bit about what happens when I get into a cold shower or an ice bath? What are some of the basic responses at the level of metabolism? Obviously, psychologically, we don't know exactly it'll vary from person to person, but what happens when I submerged myself into an ice bath, if I've never done it before?

2 (7m 49s):
Well, first of all, you get a tremendous shock. And what that's going to translate into is a bit of a shot of adrenaline. And I think this is really the so-called benefit, but I wouldn't call it a benefit of the cryo chambers. You go into a cryo chamber and it's a shock. So you get a shot of adrenaline. So sure. You're going to feel different when you come out, you've had a shot of adrenaline, but it doesn't necessarily translate into any benefit in terms of your physiology or performance and so forth. Now, if you take a cold bath or a cold shower, a couple of things are happening. One is you're going to stimulate vasoconstriction.

2 (8m 30s):
So if anything, it's going to make it a little bit more difficult for your body to get rid of heat because you're shutting off your avenues of heat loss. If you're in a true cold bath, the overall surface area of your body is so great that it doesn't matter if you've acid constricted, you're still going to lose heat. Okay?

0 (8m 51s):
Okay. So, so vasoconstriction, the constriction of, is it capillaries vessels and arteries all constrict or just one or two?

2 (9m 2s):
Well, this is an area of controversy in general. When people talk about, as a constriction, they talk of the overall skin surface, and that is not true. The primary sites of heat loss, which we're going to get into are the palms of your hands, the soles of your feet and the upper part of your face. And the reason these are avenues for heat loss is they're underlaying by special blood vessels. And these blood vessels are able to shunt the blood from the arteries, which coming from the heart directly to the veins, which are returning to the heart and bypassing the capillaries, which are the nutritive vessels, but high resistance.

2 (9m 45s):
So you can tell when you shake, someone's hand what his or her thermal status is, the hands hot or it's cold.

0 (9m 51s):
Do you think that's part of the reason why humans evolved to this practice of shaking hands, assessing each other's level of anxiety? We all know that Olympian shake is pretty indicative of something and a firm handshake is indicatives of something as is the crushing handshake for that matter, right?

2 (10m 8s):
I really don't know what the evolutionary origin of handshaking is. Other than to get your hand away from your weapon.

0 (10m 15s):
Right? A couple of questions before we get into these specialized vascular compartments on the souls, the palms and, and the upper face, you mentioned whole body immersion, like into an ice bath or very cold water up to the neck versus a cold shower. Is, is there something fundamentally different about those two besides the fact that they both provide this release of adrenaline? Is there anything that's, that's really important to understand about the difference in the physiological response evoked by, by cold shower versus immersion in cold?

2 (10m 48s):
Well, there are differences that are more physical than anything else. So if you are in a cold bath and you're still, you develop a boundary layer, if you're in a shower, you can't develop a boundary line. Could you explain

0 (11m 1s):
What a boundary layer

2 (11m 1s):
Is? Yes. If you it's best to explain it in terms of a hot bath, cause everybody's experienced that you get into a hot bath and oh my God, it's really hot, almost painful. And then you sit down and eventually it doesn't feel so hot anymore because the Stillwater, which is close to your skin is coming into equilibrium with your skin. So it's like having a blanket on you or an insulator on you. And then if you move around, you disturb that still water layer. You feel the hot tempered

0 (11m 35s):
Again. I see. So if I were to get into a cold ice bath or very cold body of water of some kind and stay still, I'd likely feel warmer, at least until I start,

2 (11m 46s):
You're not going to be losing as much heat.

0 (11m 48s):
I see

2 (11m 49s):
All around flail around, then you're going to lose more heat. Got it. Yeah. But I think getting back to your original question about benefits, you have to keep in mind whether you're talking about aerobic activity or anaerobic activity, if you're referring to performance and exercise and so forth. So if you're doing aerobic activity that you can sustain for a long time, your production of heat is rising gradually and is being distributed throughout your body. So eventually your body temperature is going to come up to a level that's going to impair your performance. So the benefit of a cold bath or a cold shower before aerobic activity is that you increase the capacity of your body mass to absorb that excess heat.

0 (12m 36s):
I see. So could you say that in a, in a rough sense that a protocol that one might use, if they're going to head out for a, a long run, even on a reasonably warm day, not, not super hot or maybe it is super hot would be to take a cool shower before they go run. Would that be beneficial?

2 (12m 54s):
It will take them longer to get to the sweat point and to heat up. And what

0 (12m 58s):
Will that translate to in terms of a performance increase?

2 (13m 1s):
Your well could increase your speed, or it depends on how you use that benefit. Some people are Pacers, they will go at the same pace and then they will go farther. Or some people are, I want to say Pacers and regulators, and I know no Pacers or forcers, they will take that advantage and use it up as fast as they can. So they will go faster, but not necessarily farther. I see,

0 (13m 28s):
As far as I know, not many athletes, at least not the ones that I know are getting into cool bodies of water, taking cold showers before they head out to train. But it sounds like there could be a real performance benefit there.

2 (13m 39s):
It could be a benefit. I know our we're going to talk about our technology for cooling, but at one point, our, I don't know if they're using it now, but our cross-country team, when they would go to compete in a very hot place, they would do their warmup exercises, their stretching. Then they would extract heat before the beginning of the race. So they, I like to think of it as you have greater scope for heat absorbent.

0 (14m 5s):
Interesting about how long would one need to take one of these showers or cold immersions before heading out for a run, roughly speaking, we don't have to get into details because everyone's performance level and regimen is going to be different where they live is going to be different, et cetera.

2 (14m 19s):
It's not as long as you think it's minutes, couple minutes. Yeah, because what's going to happen is as your core temperature goes down, you will eventually shut off your heat loss. And that keeps it from going below normal. So it, you can, if you're, if you've warmed up and your temperature has arisen by half a degree, let's say it doesn't take more than a few minutes to extract that heat, if your basil dilated.

0 (14m 46s):
Interesting. And what about for the anaerobic athlete? The strength app, right? For the anaerobic

2 (14m 52s):
Athlete. And let's say, they're doing several, several, they're doing several sets and how many reps, whatever they're doing, their core temperature is not going to rise that fast because it's only certain muscles which are being used, but the temperature of those muscles will go up. So

0 (15m 12s):
It's a local effect.

2 (15m 13s):
It's a local effect, right?

0 (15m 15s):
So let's say for sake of today of made for this discussion, let's if we assume that the basic workout, even though people do variation on this is, you know, five sets of five or 10 sets of 10. So for those listening, it would be five sets of 10 of five rep repetitions or 10 sets of 10 repetitions, 10 by 10, five by five. Yeah. So if somebody let's say is doing a large body compound movement, like barbell squats, where there's, there are a lot of large body movements, hip hinges, et cetera. But for instance, the, the biceps are not PR they're involved, but more or less indirectly, right?

0 (15m 56s):
So the effect is going to be to heat up the quadriceps, heat up the hamstrings, heat up the glutes, this kind of thing, right?

2 (16m 3s):
And then during rest that heat will leave the muscle, but it's not fast. And certainly the heat can't leave the muscle very fast while you're working out. Because when the muscle contracts, it squeezes the blood vessels, and the only way heat gets out of a muscle is in the blood. And your muscle metabolism can go up 50 or 60 fold during anaerobic activity. That means the heat production in the muscle goes up 50 or 60 fold the blood flow to that muscle cannot go up 50 or 60 fold. So you literally have the capacity to cook your muscles.

0 (16m 39s):
So this is probably an appropriate time to just mentioned briefly what the underlying mechanism of this is. Could you just, we were returned to the specifics of what one can do to mitigate this heating up, but could you just explain the relationship between energy production, ATP and pyruvate kinase and the role of heat there? Sure.

2 (17m 2s):
We don't get something for nothing. So like a steam engine, most of the energy in our food is lost as heat. So we are roughly about 20% efficient. So of the energy that we take in and our food about 20% of that can go into doing work. And the rest of it is lost as heat. Now we're mammals. We use that heat to keep our body temperature considerably above the environment. But if you raise body temperature, a few degrees higher, you're in trouble, that's hyperthermia. So individual muscles can reach hyperthermic limits before you might experience it in the whole body.

2 (17m 45s):
So to keep you from damaging your muscle by hyperthermia, we have fail safe mechanisms. And one of those fail safe mechanisms is an enzyme, which is critical for getting fuel. In other words, the results of metabolism of glucose, getting that fuel into the mitochondria, which is making our major coinage of energy exchange ATP. So that particular enzyme is temperature sensitive. So when the muscle temperature gets above 39 or 39 and five, it shuts off. And that essentially shuts off the fuel supply to the mitochondria.

2 (18m 26s):
That's when you cannot do one more rep

0 (18m 29s):
You Aly, or could we say that muscle one in one component of muscular failure is overheating of the muscle locally. They're probably other things too.

2 (18m 38s):
Well, if you, yeah, if you lack oxygen, but our oxygen delivery is pretty good to the, to, to the muscle. If you run out of glucose, yeah. That's going to impair you. But the most immediate, the most immediate impairment of muscle activity, muscle fatigue, in other words, is the rise in temperature of the muscle.

0 (18m 60s):
I want to talk about how that muscle fails locally, but I have this burning question in my mind that I cannot seem to answer for myself. I'm hoping you can answer it for me. So let's say I'm doing five sets of five with squats. I hit fit muscular failure at a given weight. And according to what I now know, it's my quadriceps and the muscles associated mean with the squat that have failed because of this heat triggering this mechanism triggered by heat. That shuts off the muscle, but my biceps are nice and cool. You're telling me they're there. They're not doing too much work. It's only indirect work. So why is it that I can't set the, the bar down in the squat rack, walk over and do barbell curls with the same intensity that I could.

0 (19m 48s):
If I were to do those barbell curls fresh had not having done anything prior,

2 (19m 53s):
Well, you will still have a fatigue curve with your upper body. Okay. And that will be influenced by any rise in temperature that has been generated by your lower body exercise.

0 (20m 6s):
So temperature in both cases is the limiting factor.

2 (20m 10s):
It's one limiting factor. It's one limiting.

0 (20m 14s):
Amazing. I find that amazing because I always thought naively that the reason muscles fail is because we don't have the strength to do another repetition there where it's that you like glycogen or some ability to access that glycogen. But of course, we still have glycogen. It's naive for me to think that because if I wait three minutes and go back, I can do those repetitions again. So the glycogen wasn't restored in that three minutes, obviously it was there, right? So I realized there might be other mechanisms involved sounds like heat is if not the dominant mechanism that more work, it's one of them.

2 (20m 51s):
It's one of them. And it's a quick one. It's a fast one. So it can happen with, let's say you are a really experienced weightlifter. Okay. You may be doing very, very high weights with sets of five or six.

0 (21m 8s):
Yeah. To be clear for the audience. I'm not doing very high weights for the center. Not particularly strong, not super weak, but I'm not particularly strong, but Craig's referring in the general sense to, to you. So why, why is it that if I finish a set of squats, I can't simply cool off my quadriceps by throwing a nice, cool towel on my quadriceps. Why would, why is that not the best way to go about it

2 (21m 35s):
As your body surface is a very good insulator. Okay. We, we think we don't have for, and therefore we're not insulated, but the skin, the fascia, the, the muscles under Leith underneath that, they're all very good insulators. And that's why I said earlier that the way the heat gets out of the muscle is in the blood. So

0 (21m 57s):
I want to step through a couple other portals by which one might think that heating and cooling would be ideal. And then get back to these sure. Specialized surfaces on the hands, the feet and the face. So if throwing a cold towel or I even ice cold towel on my quadriceps, isn't going to work or standing in front of the fan because I'm insulated from that. Cool. I can't cool off my blood. Fast enough. What about drinking? 16 ounces of ice water?

2 (22m 23s):
Sure. You can do that, but you can calculate how much heat that can absorb and you can't continue drinking liters of ice water. You're going to dilute your, your blood and have other problems. But yes, it'll help sure it will help, but it is not. Doesn't have the, the full capacity you will need.

0 (22m 42s):
What about an ice pack to the back of my neck or to my head or squeezing the cold sponge over the head? I'm, I'm deliberately moving through these options because these are the ones that we see most often. We were actually just watching the Olympic track and field trials last night in Oregon. I'm a huge track and field fan. And there were a lot of, there were a lot of sponges on the backs of necks before and between and after events. And how good is that? Or how poor is that as a strategy since now, we know that being overheated locally and systemically throughout the body is, is a serious limiting factor on performance.

2 (23m 18s):
You have to understand something about our thermoregulatory system. We have a thermostat just like you have a thermostat in your house. And that thermostat is in the brain. Okay.

0 (23m 30s):
Do we know the specific site? Yes.

2 (23m 32s):
Yes. It's called the pre optic interior hypothalamus. It does many things in terms of physiological regulation, but it serves as a thermostat. Now that thermostat has to have information. It has to have input. Where does that input come from? It comes from our overall body surface where we sense temperature. So one of the things that can happen when you're overheated is that you can send in a cold stimulus to your thermostat and that sort of like wanting to cool your house by putting a wet washcloth over your thermostat. Now it's, it's doing the wrong thing. So we've actually had experiences where we've had people exercising, getting overheated, and then cooling the body surface and they say, it feels great.

2 (24m 18s):
This is fantastic. And their core temperatures going up.

0 (24m 21s):
I think this is such an important point for, so I w I was weaned in a laboratory where there were always battles over the temperature in the lab. So people were always putting ice packs on thermostats or putting fans towards thermostats and trying to play this game. Good to know we were all being foolish, even though we were, neurobiologists putting a cold towel over my torso or putting ice on the back of my upper back, you're saying could actually heat up my core.

2 (24m 52s):
Well, at least decrease your heat loss, your rate of heat loss as we're, you're going to raise the issue a little later. I know, and that is our natural portals for heat loss. So you can think of the natural porters portals for heat loss as our air conditioners. Okay. The thermostats in the brain and the information from the thermostat to the thermostat is coming from the overall body surface. So what can happen if you let's say cool, the torso with an ice vest, you can actually cause a vasoconstriction of your portals, your heat loss portals. So that's what impairs the rate at which you're losing heat feels good. Now, back to the head, that's really interesting.

2 (25m 36s):
The major blood flow to the brain comes up four arteries through the neck. There's a carotid arteries and there's the vertebral arteries. So when you put a cold towel around the neck, you're going to be putting a cold stimulus into the brain. Well, that's great for protecting the brain. You want to protect the brain, but it's also going to make you feel cooler than you are. So you will think you're ready to go again quickly when you've just essentially cooled the thermostat.

0 (26m 9s):
This is an important point. There's a lot of interest nowadays, and people doing marathons, and even some people do these ultras ultra running, which I guess is everything longer than a marathon and go and go last man, standing last man, last woman standing kind of things. So you're saying that if somebody is hyperthermic, they could trick themselves into subjectively thinking that they are cooling off by putting a Cortel and that they can go further, but their brain could cook.

2 (26m 37s):
Well, if they stop the cooling, then that hot blood from the body Corp is going to go to the brain. Interesting.

0 (26m 42s):
Well, many it's a bit of a, of a tangent, but many people report after long bouts of exercise, or even just very intense bouts of exercise, feeling a kind of brain fog or mental fatigue. I, I assumed that that was due to lowered brain oxygenation post-exercise, but is it possible that there are some post-exercise effects on heating and cooling of the brain that might impact cognition, or I should say negatively impact cognition.

2 (27m 12s):
It's certainly possible because we know that a rising temperature decreases cognitive capacity. I mean, you can experience that yourself. You can get on a treadmill, you know, and follow your temperature, and then just do a simple activity like adding and subtracting. You get to about 39 degrees. You can't do that anymore. You can't just calculate how much, how long you've been on the treadmill.

0 (27m 37s):
So the, the phrase cool, calm and collected is a common cause that's the goal in all pursuits pest, right? So I want to talk about these portals because you've mentioned them a few times before I ask about what the portals are exactly and how they work and how they can be leveraged for performance. I just, there's a question that my neurobiologists self can't resist, but ask, we have this thermostat in the preoperative area of the hypothalamus, which is interesting to me that pre-op the medial perioptic area is also one that's known to be sexually dimorphic depending on testosterone exposure early in life, or et cetera.

0 (28m 16s):
Although people should just note that it's not actually testosterone that creates these sexual dimorphism. These differences actually testosterone converted into estrogen. It's actually estrogen is the effector, which is fascinating. Nonetheless, we got this area that acts as a thermostat. And you said it's collecting information from the whole body. Does that mean that there are pathways as the neuroscientists? Like you, you and I refer to them as these, these afferent or input pathways from the body to the pre optic area. Is there a map of our body in the preoperative area? Cause that, yeah, I have to imagine that you can't have the information just coming from the left shoulder, just from the right toe.

0 (28m 59s):
It sounds like you need a pretty, probably a pretty crude map, but that you need a complete map of the body surface there. Well, you don't

2 (29m 6s):
Need a complete map in the hypothalamus mean that thermal Afrin information that you mentioned, it also goes to the somatosensory cortex. So, you know, if an ice cube has touched you on the back, but that doesn't necessarily translate into a change in, let's say you're shivering or, or sweating. So the information that's going to the hypothalamus is more integrated representation of, of body temperature. So

0 (29m 37s):
Sort of an average of what's happening. So if I were to, let's say, I get hot on a hot day and a popsicles. When we were in summer camp, I went to a sports camp near here actually, and we'd run around like crazy. And then we get into the shade if we could, but we were, you know, popsicles or the kids were putting ice cubes down each other's shirts or something, but that's an average because other parts of the body aren't exposed, the mouth is exposed to the ice in the Popsicle case or the cold cubes or in the hands, as you said, it feels really good. It feels good. Yeah. But it sounds like it it's feels deceptively good because in reality it could still be quite warm internally.

2 (30m 17s):
Absolutely. Yeah. Interesting. Yeah. You can feel great and have a dangerously hyperthermic temperature, but I should say that when you get into the danger zone, things get bad fast.

0 (30m 30s):
What are some of the symptoms that people could be on the lookout for, for hyper

2 (30m 34s):
Essentially, it's, it's almost ironic that if individuals are trends transitioning into heat stroke, they actually vasoconstrict and they stopped sweating. And that's a pathological situation. I couldn't begin to explain it, but essentially you are just feeling exhausted. You're feeling miserable. The heart rate is very high. Your heart rate goes up as your core temperature goes up called cardiac drift.

2 (31m 13s):
So you just feel rotten. But that's why since, since it's not an, and it's not a danger signal that you can translate immediately into Nope, I'm going into heat stroke. That's why people can overcome their bad feeling with motivation to continue going to work harder. So there have been a number of high profile athletic deaths due to heat stroke that were Doring practice, not in competition when people, you know, are really trying to do it, but in practice, which shows they were just motivated to push.

0 (31m 50s):
So let's talk about these magnificent portals that not just humans, but other animals mammals are equipped with. So if putting cold on the neck or on the head or on the torso is not optimal, what is optimal and maybe walk us through a theory as to why we would have these portals located where they are. And then we can talk about how one might leverage them for performance,

2 (32m 18s):
Okay. Where the portals are, are in the glamorous skin, big word. Okay. Glamorous just means no hair. So it's the hairless skin you say, well, I'm, you know, most of my body is without hair. No, your most of your body has hair follicles. We are mammals mammals have we've lost the firm, but we still have those that hairy skin phenotype all over our body, except except for those skin surfaces where our mammal relatives didn't have for. So the pads of the feet and for the primates upper part of the face for rabbits, no portions of the ears, the inner surfaces for bears and that the tongue, the bears have big tongues, huge dunks.

0 (33m 10s):
I didn't know that either I'm in that close to a Marriott

2 (33m 15s):
Looking match with a bear at night yet. So anyway, our male mammalian relatives can't lose heat over their overall body surface. So probably very early on in mammalian evolution, they evolved these special blood vessels in the limited surface areas that don't have fur. And as I said, what these blood vessels are, are shunts between the arteries and the veins, arteries and veins are both low resistance vessels. So you can have high flow rate capillaries, which normally are between arteries and veins are high resistance because they're very tiny. Okay. Is it,

0 (33m 55s):
Is it fair to say that what I was taught is that blood flows flow from arteries then to capillaries and then to veins and then back to the heart. So it's sort of like from the heart through arteries, then through these little capillaries, which are like little estuaries and streams and then to the veins, back to the heart, is that, is that generally true? So what I learned in basic physiology is still, it's still, I wouldn't, I wouldn't get an F in your class, maybe a D or C, but not enough. So that's excellent. Okay. And so you're saying that in this glamorous or beneath the glamorous skin,

2 (34m 29s):
There are these

0 (34m 30s):
Shunts and those go directly from arteries to vein. So you skip the capillaries. And is it actually, as long as I, as I'm say that in the skin, you know, when I feel the pads of my hands, w how deep to the surface do these, do these vessels reside

2 (34m 50s):
Below the, obviously the, the, the, the epidermis. So, so if you are warm and you look at your palms of your hands, they are fairly red, the backs of your hands aren't, you don't have these vessels in the backs of your hands. Now, if you take a glass like a water tumbler, right. And you grab it, you can see if you squeeze a little bit, the hand goes white that's because you've shut off that blood

0 (35m 21s):
Flow. Oh, interesting. I'm going to do that little home exercise.

2 (35m 24s):
If you're bicycling on a hot day, you don't want to be grabbing your handlebars all the time. You want to periodically,

0 (35m 31s):
Well, this is important. I know you you're privy to some really amazing results that we're going to talk about, but I actually, you say this during this lecture recently, that Stanford held about a human performance that we were both part of. And you mentioned this, that if you're cycling and you're working hard and you want to be able to do more work it, we now know why you want to remain cool in order to continue to do work. And if you get too warm, that's bad that gripping the handlebars too tightly will actually limit your performance. Right. And that's probably also true on the Peloton or any other kind of device or the skier or anything like that. So loosen the grip, or if you safely, can you want to actually expose your hands to the world?

0 (36m 12s):
Now, what about for people wearing gloves? What about the, the, to me that just seems crazy based on everything you're telling me. Well,

2 (36m 19s):
Gloves definitely impede heat loss from the hands, just as socks, impede heat loss from the feet. Okay. So if you want to maximize your heat loss, you want to have as thin a protectors as possible on your hands. And of course, the feeder more problematical, because you have to be using them in certain ways.

0 (36m 39s):
Run barefoot. Yeah. Well, yeah, that's, it that's become somewhat popular. It seems like it kind of came and went. They had those toe shoes things, but they looked so ridiculous that I think most people just were willing to take the performance hindrance of regular shoes.

2 (36m 53s):
Actually, we had a track coach here at Stanford who for a while was famous for introducing training without shoes running. Interesting. And he thought it was because it changed the posture of the runner. And I think it was just due to the fact that he was increasing the capacity of his runners to lose heat.

0 (37m 12s):
Yeah. So heating up at the level of the hands obviously is going to hinder performance. So if I can, how about with running? I noticed I ran cross country briefly in high school and, and not particularly well at that, but that we were told to run as if we were holding, you know, crackers in our, in our fingers or something like very lightly and to keep hands kind of loose. So running like this would actually be more beneficial performance than, or gripping a phone, which is probably what most people are doing nowadays. Right, right. Interesting. And

2 (37m 42s):
I, once I I'll tell you the experience I had once I was in Alaska in the winter, and I went out running and I absentmindedly forgot gloves. And I realized this after a short period running, because the backs of my hands were aching from the cold, the palms of my hands were sweating and were hot.

0 (38m 2s):
Amazing. So these compartments are a real thing. And you mentioned the upper half of the face.

2 (38m 7s):
That's where our primate ancestors don't have

0 (38m 9s):
Fur and the bottoms of our feet. So let's just take a moment, talk about some of the more amazing results that have been associated with proper cooling of these glamour skin surfaces.

2 (38m 24s):
Let me introduce one more thing, because you asked earlier about the pouring of water on the head. One of the things which is not appreciated fully is that the blood, which is perfusing these special blood vessels in the face above the beard line, that's the non hairy skin that blood then returns in the venous supply to the heart, but it actually does it in a very strange way. It actually goes through what are called blocking on the name. Now take your time. Or these are blood vessels that go through the skull. Okay.

2 (39m 3s):
And that's why the scalp bleeds a lot. If you cut, cut the scalp and these blood vessels, which are called, I want to say emergent, but it's not emergent. It's a word that means leaving these blood vessels were primarily thought to be ways that blood is leaving the brain, but when you're overheated the direction of flow in those blood vessels reverses. So the cool blood that's coming from your facial region goes into that circulation and actually is a cooling source for the brain. So you can cool the brain. You can have a cooling effect on the brain by pouring water on, on your head.

0 (39m 46s):
Interesting. So that practice, which we, at least for me, I most commonly associate with combat sports, where someone the fighter goes to their corner. They usually sit down on a, on a stool, unless they're trying to do some mental warfare from the corner, in which case they, they don't even take a seat and they'll their corner crew will bull squeeze a glove, excuse me, a sponge full of cold water over them. Or that you're saying is somewhat effective in cooling the brain.

2 (40m 17s):
Yeah. It's one of the natural mechanisms for cooling the brain.

0 (40m 21s):
I want to return to this at some point as well, but is there any known benefit to cooling the brain in terms of offsetting physical damage, you know, offsetting the negative effects of concussion, because one of the reasons why fighters will often get coal on the back, you know, cold item on the back of the neck or on the head is not just to cool them down, but the theory is that it might offset some of the damage of neurons.

2 (40m 50s):
I just can't comment on that. I'm aware of those ideas, but they're controversial. One of the things that you want to do for injury to the brain is to decrease swelling. And one of the ways that you decrease swelling in many parts of the body is to cool. It decreases inflammation, it decreases the blood flow. So, you know, I, I think it's a really interesting topic and it's something that should be investigated. It's kind of hard to investigate. Yeah.

0 (41m 26s):
Interesting. Okay. So I hear these stories and I've seen the data. So I believe the stories, maybe tell us a story about an observation that your group has made with respect to anaerobic exercise and, and this prop and proper cooling of the, these glamorous surfaces. And we can talk about the technology, maybe give us the dips example first. So of course, you know, I think most people are familiar with depths. You're supposed to, I guess, get raised and lower your body, raising lower your body raise and lower your body mass. Usually with your legs, dangling down. Sometimes people strong enough to attach a weight there and they'll do, it's essentially a compound upper body exercise, right?

0 (42m 10s):
One dip would not be particularly impressive for most people. A hundred would be very impressive. 20 would be impressive for some et cetera. What happens when a skilled athlete comes in and does dips for multiple sets. And then what happens when they cool, properly using the glamorous skin surface?

2 (42m 31s):
This was a story that occurred early on in our investigations. When we first made the discoveries that cooling has a benefit to increase your work volume, your capacity, to do more reps. Okay. So the word got over, I think, to the 49ers camp and one of their players, Greg Clark, who was a tight end at the time he had been tight end at Stanford. He decided, or I don't know if he was asked or what to come over and check it out. So Greg came over and we said, Greg, what are you good at? What, what ex activity do you like to do? He said, dips.

2 (43m 11s):
I can do a lot of dips. I can do 40 dips in a first set. And I can probably do five sets. That's a usual workout for me. And we said, okay. So he came over to the gym one day and that's exactly what he did. He did 40 dips first set, and then maybe 25 and 15. And you know, down, down,

0 (43m 32s):
You recall roughly what kind of rest periods he was taking

2 (43m 35s):
Between. We, we, we, we standardized the respirator to three minutes because that's what we had set on for cooling as the

0 (43m 44s):
That's a good long rest period. It's still a lot dips. I got it.

2 (43m 48s):
Yeah. It's actually a longer rest period than many people would prefer during workouts. They want to make the motion

0 (43m 55s):
With me. I prefer to take as much time as I possibly can. Yeah.

2 (43m 59s):
So several days later he came back and his first set, he did, I think maybe 42, a little bit better, but now people were standing around and watching. So there was a little impetus there to show off. So then his second set was, I don't remember the numbers, but very much above the second set on the control day. This was after we cooled his.

0 (44m 22s):
So he does, when is he doing the cooling he's,

2 (44m 25s):
He's sitting down and putting his hands in the devices that we had built, which were cooling the palms of his

0 (44m 32s):
For how long does that grueling take? Can you do it inside of a three minute rest period? Yeah,

2 (44m 36s):
That's what we were doing. We standardize the interval for resting or cooling a to three minutes. Okay. But the, the point is he got to his fifth set and he S and all of the sets were above what he had done on the previous day. And he said, you know, I'm not tired. I can do another set. And then I can do another set. I can do another set. I can do another set. So from one day to two or three days later with cooling, he doubled the total work volume. He doubled the total number of

0 (45m 8s):
Dips by adding more sets and more repetitions to each set.

2 (45m 12s):
Right? So then he kept coming back for four more weeks, twice a week. And by the end of that month, he was doing 300 dips. Wow. So what presents

0 (45m 26s):
You tripled?

2 (45m 26s):
He tripled, tripled as a, here's a, here's a professional athlete at peak physical conditioning, and he triples what he can do.

0 (45m 36s):
And in terms of his ability to recover, did, was that explored or discussed at all? Because my understanding is that if we cause enough stress to a muscle during anaerobic training, we provide the stimulus for compensatory regrowth, et cetera. But if we do more work, we essentially scale up the amount of recovery that's needed or the recovery time. I'm very curious about whether or not he needed longer to recover between these super performing workouts.

2 (46m 6s):
That's very interesting. That was a major discovery, which we didn't realize we were making at the time. There is this phenomenon you're referring to as delayed onset muscle soreness Dom's, and this is due to those little micro tears and so forth that are happening as we extend our workout capacity volume. Okay. So we've had this experience so many times that an athlete or anyone will come in to the lab and they will exceed what their previous goals, where their previous expectations. And I can always see the words coming out of their mouth. I'm going to be so sore tomorrow.

2 (46m 48s):
They never are interesting. And we've actually demonstrated that with a naive group, we had a class physical conditioning class, and we had half of them w the first days of the class, we had to establish their true capacity, what they could do. So this were pretty heavy workouts for these new recruits. And we gave half of them that benefit of cooling and the other half not. And then we had them record their subjective levels of delayed onset muscle soreness, and they, those that were cooled didn't have significant muscle soreness. Amazing.

0 (47m 26s):
And I know there are also published results and we'll, we will provide links to some of these papers for people seeing similar effects, I should say, similar performance enhancing effects using bench presses in the bench press or push-ups or other, other sorts of things. Maybe you could give us an example from the realm of endurance work or, or robotic work, running, cycling, things of that sort.

2 (47m 52s):
Well, one of the problems with, for us is that our equipment now is not really portable. I mean, it's portable in the sense that you can carry it to the gym or to the football

0 (48m 3s):
Field, but you're not

2 (48m 4s):
Going to run or run with him, right.

0 (48m 7s):
Where equipment bicycle with it. Although when winter, the cooling handles on bicycles coming,

2 (48m 11s):
That would be good. But one, one itinerant activity is golfing and people have put it on their golf carts, and

0 (48m 19s):
We'll really heat up that much in golf. They do not to be disparaging of the golfers, but I, the way I conceptualize golf, it's like a swing and then a walk and then a, and then a cart ride and then a meal. I probably just offended all the golfers out there.

2 (48m 32s):
One time we had, we were doing work for the, for the department of defense and they wanted to check it out, whether or not what we were doing was really worthwhile. So they sent out a team of special, special ops soldiers to be our subjects and test it out. They were here for a week. So they w that was a fun week.

0 (48m 56s):
Yeah. I do some work with those guys. They're, they're hard driving guys. They also know how to have fun, but yeah, they, they definitely have, if they have an off or a quit switch, it's buried deep within their nervous system. They don't like to hit that, that quit switch.

2 (49m 14s):
So the guy who wrote the final report, he gave an addendum to the report and he said, well, I'll tell you this. After I've gotten home, it's added that technology. They took the technology with them. They wanted to go. Yeah,

0 (49m 27s):
That sounds about right.

2 (49m 29s):
And using it, it has added 20 yards to every club in my bag. And that's no FM small home. Wow.

0 (49m 36s):
So it's allowing people to hit further, hit the golf ball further. Right. Interesting. All right. So for the, for the golf players out there in the it, then that's the, that's a reward you get back from Craig for all my, my little knocks on golf. I actually, I don't have any knock on golf. I just don't think about it as a sport where Keating up is a limiting factor. So well, since they're getting more, more out of their drive, what's what do you think's going on there?

2 (50m 6s):
Well, they can be heating up and there was one, a hot day and so forth. But let me just tell you one more serious story about golfers and that is individuals with multiple sclerosis are exceedingly temperature sensitive. I didn't know. So they may still be mobile, but they have to stay in cool locations and not increase their exercise to any great extent. But we've had subjects that have with multiple sclerosis who have just essentially put the device on their golf cart and they're back out playing golf in the middle of the summer. Oh, that's great.

0 (50m 41s):
Yeah. That's great. Does anything that allows people to have normal levels of, you know, livelihood and, and recreation is great. We always think about performance as the, at these kinds of like peak and elite levels and pushing harder. But yeah, anything that allows people to be, to be mobile and functional is great. So what's your favorite example of endurance and feel free to give us the extreme one. And then we'll talk about averages at, to be, you know, make sure we're thorough about averages versus exceptions.

2 (51m 13s):
Right? We haven't done a lot in the field. I mean, outdoors, most of our endurance has been in a hot room with treadmill work and so forth. So the very first experiment we had, I think maybe 18 subjects just off the street. Maybe we just recruited people in the hallways, come on in and do this. And what we found is we could for this group with one trial, with them without cooling, we could double their endurance walking on the treadmill, walking uphill on the treadmill in the heat, like maybe 40 degrees, ambient temperature, 40 degrees centigrade.

0 (51m 50s):
So what does the experiment look like? You're having people walk on an incline. It's really warm. Some people are just going to hit the quit button and say, I've had enough and get off the treadmill with proper cooling. When are they doing the cooling?

2 (52m 2s):
They're, they're doing it continuously because in the laboratory we can suspend devices from the ceiling. For example, now we do have prototype wearable devices. We did them in response to emails from Ebola workers, a number of years ago in Sierra Leone. And they said, we've read about your work with athletes. Can't you do something for us? I mean, we're in the personal protective gear and we can't be in the hot zone for more than 15 or 20 minutes. So that was started us on the challenge of developing wearable systems that could go under the PPE. We've published that work now.

0 (52m 41s):
Great. They're not missing the military special operators that are out in the desert and other locations are probably excited about this technology.

2 (52m 48s):
Well, once they get it, once they get

0 (52m 50s):
It, it's coming, it's coming. Yeah. You know, I think some people might wonder, you know, if there are all these studies and there are these incredible results over the years on why haven't we heard more about it? And I, I will ask your opinion on that as well. But I'll just editorialize a little bit, is that the, the best laboratory work and its practical applications oftentimes requires many studies. And oftentimes there isn't a portal, so to speak, to get that information out into the technology sector. So there isn't a company that's developing this for people to use, to purchase and use.

0 (53m 30s):
We might as well just tell us now, what is the name of that company? And do they have a website? People are going to want to know where can they get this magical technology? And, and is there a poor man's version of it as well?

2 (53m 42s):
Well, the companies are, Tyria a R T E R I a, and the website is www.cool mint.com. So cool. Mint is just C O O L M I T T.

0 (53m 57s):
Yeah. It's a great website. When I went there, it says that right now, the technology is only available to professional sports teams. And military is that true

2 (54m 5s):
Where we stand now is the new version of the technology is sort of in beta test versions. We got it into the hands of people who had used the technology before. So there's NFL teams that are using th there's college teams Olympics. There's the, a Navy seals, major league baseball, the NBA, the national tennis association. They have locations where now they are trying this out and reporting back, how's it working? How could you change it? How could you improve it and so forth? So that's, that's where we are. But on the website, you can actually sign up for being one who will be able to get one when they are finally manufactured.

2 (54m 50s):
They're now being made in fairly small lots, because you want to change things as you realize how it can be improved.

0 (54m 57s):
Yeah. This is Stanford after all, you want to get the technology, right? I, I like to joke that one of the reasons I like being at Stanford so much is that not only are my colleagues amazing and they're so forward thinking, but they're all perfectionists. And so that the perfectionist mindset is that it has to be perfect before it can go, go live so to speak. Well, I think there will be a lot of interest. Let's talk about the technology in a little more detail for a moment. And then let's talk about whether or not cruder forms of that technology exists either for sake of safety and or performance. So what is the, the cool mint, as I understand is it's a, it's a mint, it's a glove. You put your hand into you, you hold on to a surface and that surface cools, you cools your hand and thereby through this specialized portal, cools your, your core body temperature and all the, all the muscles of the body.

0 (55m 50s):
Subjectively. If I were to do this right now, would I think that it was ice cold or what? I think it was just cool.

2 (55m 59s):
Cool. I see ice cold is too cold. So people always ask, well, why can't you just stick your hand in a bucket of ice water. It's to hope what that does is that causes reflex of as a constriction of the very portals that you're trying to maximize the heat loss from a, so you stick your hand in cold water and when it comes out, it's cold, you

0 (56m 20s):
Just sealed up all the heat,

2 (56m 23s):
Right?

0 (56m 24s):
So w what I sort of recommended to someone at one point, they said, well, when I'm running, can I just carry a frozen juice camp? And it will gradually melt? And I said, well, no, because that's going to decrease the heat loss from that hand. But if every couple minutes you switched hands is that it might work well. I have a feeling that there are people now doing that, as well as trying, trying this. So how long in the CoolBot at the proper temperature, how long are our people putting their hands into the Mitt? What

2 (56m 55s):
W we, once again, had just standardized on three minutes. And part of the reason for that is that the heat law, the rate of heat loss is an exponentially declining curve. Okay. And three minutes sort of gets the best part of the curve. So you can go longer and get more benefit. But the biggest bang for the buck is in the first two, three minutes,

0 (57m 18s):
Okay. You mentioned a number of impressive organizations, sports teams, and military that are using this. This is not something that I typically see on the sidelines of games. Although to be honest, I haven't looked very carefully. I'm guessing that there are probably keeping the technology somewhat under wraps, where, and how are they doing this? Are they running back to the locker room? I mean, the, the military special operators are doing their thing, but in terms of the athletes, is it possible? Hypothetically, the athletes are doing this somewhat incognito

2 (57m 51s):
It's possible, but I really don't know. People have mentioned here at Stanford, they don't see the football team using it. Well, the football team here at Stanford is mostly playing in cold weather. Cool weather. The night games are cool. Even date games are not very hot frequently here, but when they go to a hot place like Arizona or Utah, at least our coach Shaw says that they take it with them and that's when they find the benefit. That's when they use it. Interesting.

0 (58m 23s):
So is there a poor, person's a poor man or woman's version of this? You mentioned the juice can passing back and forth. You mentioned cooling the hands. A number of people said to me after learning a little bit about this science and technology that they've experienced some big effects, positive effects of, of cooling by, and I confess I've done this taking a package of frozen blueberries and just kind of passing it back and forth between my hands. Now, talking to you, I realize I probably didn't do it long enough. I probably was. I was only doing maybe 30 seconds passing it back and forth between my hands and then going back into sets. I did see a performance enhancing effect.

0 (59m 5s):
Absolutely. But I realized I probably wasn't optimizing the protocol. If you were going to give a, a crude protocol for it. Let's just say for the gym, because with running it's a little bit tricky, but what would that look like if people wanted to just play with this in, in some sort of fashion?

2 (59m 24s):
Well, it, you know, it's would be experimental. Sure.

0 (59m 29s):
Yeah. None of that is very controlled.

2 (59m 31s):
Your idea of frozen peas is a good idea. And I think since there's been no actual study of that, you would have to be you working out what is the best for you. But one way to figure it out is that if after you hold the cold peas in one hand and you switch it to the other hand, if someone then comes in, feels your hand, is it warm or cold? If it's cold, it means you've as a constricted. If it's warm, it means the pot blood is still going there. Okay. So we do that in the lab and the

0 (1h 0m 7s):
Not vasoconstrict. Right. Okay. So, so there's a test out there. Folks, if you're going to try this in kind of crude fashion, at least until the, the cool Mitt is available more broadly to the general public, you could assess, you want to assess whether or not the hint, your palms actually feel cool to the touch by somebody else. And if it does, that means you, you essentially shut down the portal. You're sealing in more heat, which is bad. What about putting this cold pack of some sort on the face or, or the feet more of the feet? I work out at home. I don't often work out barefooted, but I suppose I could, like they did in the seventies. You know, when those guys were walking around without shoes and squatting without, without any shoes or socks on, could I put my feet on that?

2 (1h 0m 54s):
You could, if you had simply had a water profused pad and you were circulating cool water through it, you could just put your feet on it. Okay. Part of the problem is that you don't want, if let's say you have just a cold pack of something, the problem is back to boundary layers. Again, if you don't have a convective stream of the cooling medium, the heat sink is not as effective because there'll be a boundary layer developed between the heat sink material and your skin. So that decreases its its efficacy.

0 (1h 1m 35s):
I see. Maybe we should just for a moment, talk about convection, radiation, and convection, and just make that clear. Like if I put my hands, let's say it's a cold night and I'm at a campfire and I take my hands and I put them out to the fire.

2 (1h 1m 48s):
I'm getting radiation, you're getting

0 (1h 1m 50s):
Radiation. Okay. And, and then if it's a windy warm night, no, I gotta know if that's the best example. Give us a good example of convection

2 (1h 1m 59s):
Conviction. Sure. Is, is in a cool breeze. You know, the wind chill factor that's due to convection. Okay. But in terms of heat transfer between two objects, if you have convection of the medium, whether it's blood on the inside and water on the outside, you increase the heat exchange. If you have conviction on both sides, right?

0 (1h 2m 24s):
This is why just planting my feet on two packages of fro my bare feet on two packages of frozen peas. There's really no opportunity for circulation of energy and therefore heat transfer. So it's not really optimal, which is I. And,

2 (1h 2m 38s):
But once again, it depends on the surface area to get any benefit at all. We have a study that we published, which was investigating the standard treatment for hyperthermia in the field and the standard treatment. The, the, this recommended by medical organizations is you take cold packs and you put them in the axilla, the groin,

0 (1h 3m 3s):
The axle, or the are the, are the armpit,

2 (1h 3m 5s):
The armpits, the groin, which is a

0 (1h 3m 10s):
Thin skin, lots of vasculature,

2 (1h 3m 12s):
Right? And the F and the neck. So what we did is we did studies in which we made people hyperthermic. And then we measured the rate at which we could call them by putting those positions in the, those heat exchange bags, in the recommended location versus on the glamorous skin versus palms, soles, and face. The, the cooling rate was double. Wow. So we put the same ice packs, the same cold packs on the heat portals rather than the Exela the groin in the face or the neck.

0 (1h 3m 50s):
Wow. So face, hands and bottoms of feet. We'll call you twice as fast as putting cold packs into your armpits, your groin or back of neck. So

2 (1h 4m 2s):
I like to give the analogy of if your car is overheating, okay. And you have a hose, a garden hose, where should you spray your cooling system? Should you spray the radiator or should you spray the tubes going in and out of the radiator? Well, the rationale with putting these cold packs in the axle of the groin in the neck is that you're getting close to the major arteries. Sure. That's going to be effective, but it's much more effective if you actually increase the heat loss capacity of the radiating surface, the radiators. So you cool

0 (1h 4m 35s):
The hot stuff heading toward the core

2 (1h 4m 39s):
That that's essentially what the standard operating procedure is that you hit the arteries amazing. And the veins arteries.

0 (1h 4m 49s):
I'm going to just tell a brief story that illustrates how almost everybody gets this stuff wrong. And I'm gonna use that as an opportunity to ask you about heating, deliberate heating, as opposed to deliberate cooling. So about four months ago, a friend of mine, incidentally, a guy who did nine years in the seal teams, really skilled cold water swimmer. We went out for a swim in the morning. I'm not nearly even close to the being in the same universe of his output potential. We do these swims. I'm familiar with them. I got enough blubber on me that I'm stay warm enough in the cold Pacific, no wetsuits. We do the morning cold, cold swim for about a mile or so.

0 (1h 5m 29s):
And we brought with us up a young kid that I know real well, that hangs out with us sometimes and trains with us. Who's got very little body fat. He's just exceptionally lean despite eating everything inside. Right teenager, great athlete, great kid, great swimmer. So we're out there swimming. And at some point we're talking to him and it's clear that he's gone hypothermic, he's slurring his words. He's not doing well. So we get him onto the beach. His teeth are turning yellow. He's quaking. He's not, he's got, you know, his saliva is taken on that consistency. That's clear, like he's hypothermic. We go to the lifeguard station.

0 (1h 6m 10s):
Lifeguard says, okay, let's get his vitals. Let's do all this. Meanwhile, trying stand next to him, you know, and heat him up by heating up his torso. So there we are like pressing against this guy, our friend, trying to heat him up. They get a blanket on him. He's I'm realizing he was barefoot. His face was exposed. Although we did cover his head with a blanket and he eventually came back. We got some warm liquids into him and he, he was okay. He was fine. I don't know that his mother's ever gonna let him swim with us again. If, if I ever disappear and go missing it's because of that incident. Anyway, he did great. He recovered he's back in the water and doing well.

0 (1h 6m 52s):
But I realized that pretty much everything from the point where we got back on the beach until he was back to normal was we did incorrectly. We heated his torso. We left his extremities exposed and we assume we were doing the right thing. And the lifeguard is a skilled lifeguard at a major public beach. So I guess the simple question is, did we get everything wrong? Did we get anything right? And what would have been the better option to heat up a hypothermic person in that or similar situation?

2 (1h 7m 27s):
Well, it's interesting. You asked that because that is the way we got into this area of investigation. I worked on how the hypothalamus regulates body temperature neurophysiology. And one day we were having a discussion with a colleague in the department of anesthesia. And he jokingly said to my colleague, he said, yeah, you guys think, you know, so much about temperature. I bet you couldn't solve a problem. We have in the recovery room, what's that? Well, the patients come out of surgery, they're hypothermic and it takes us hours to get them to stop shivering. What do they do in the recovery room?

2 (1h 8m 8s):
Exactly what you suggested. They put in warm blankets, they coulda in heat lamps, and it takes them an hour or two hours to get these patients to stop shivering, to bring them back up. So we say, ah, it's a trivial problem. No, it's a hard problem. It's a hard problem because when you're under anesthesia, your dilated, when you come out of anesthesia, you're hypothermic and you vasoconstrict, and that makes it very difficult to get heat into the body. So we got the idea that, well, if we could just take one appendage like an arm and we put it in a environment wrapped in a heating pad and a negative pressure, you know, suction that would pull more blood into that limb, that blood would get heated and it would warm the body up faster.

2 (1h 8m 57s):
So my colleague built a prototype device where you couldn't get such a device into the hospital these days. But we were with our anesthesiologist friend, we took it into the recovery room. And, and the first thing that patients said, no way, I want to put that on my patient, but he prevailed. And first patient in didn't shiver at all, first patient was back to normal temperature, core temperature in, I think it was eight minutes, nine minutes. Is this

0 (1h 9m 30s):
Now standard practice in hospitals?

2 (1h 9m 32s):
No, no.

0 (1h 9m 32s):
This is another example where I don't get upset about the, although it's upsetting to know that it's not, but I think that it's yet another case where a fundamental problem exists. There's a, a science based solution that makes sense at the level of physiology, engineering and practice, and yet it's not being done. Right. And I mean, we could, we that's a whole other discussion as to what the limitations are. Well, perhaps in an, I know a number of our listeners are in the healthcare and medical profession, as well as military athletes and just also standard other types of jobs, civilians doing other types of work. It would be wonderful if people understood this.

0 (1h 10m 14s):
So once again, is there a, is there a homegrown technology that people could use? If somebody is hypothermic, what is going to be the best way for them to warm up is going to be holding a nice warm mug of cocoa or something like that, but not, not too hot, I guess is again the idea.

2 (1h 10m 33s):
Well, actually you can go hotter on the, on the glamorous skin

0 (1h 10m 38s):
Because it'll dilate because it

2 (1h 10m 40s):
Takes the heat away faster. Okay. But back to the anesthesia, what you can do is you can use a warm pads. They have them in all hospitals, they have circulating water, perfused pads, water bottle type stuff.

0 (1h 10m 55s):
So typically they'll slide them under your lower back or something like that.

2 (1h 10m 58s):
Yeah. Put them on, put them on the feet. Okay, sure. That that will do it. But it turns out that we discovered through this work, that it had nothing to do with the whole arm. It was only the hand. And that's when we came to the realization of these special blood vessels, we didn't discover the blood vessels that are described in Grey's anatomy, but nobody knew what they were.

0 (1h 11m 21s):
And you mentioned bears earlier and other hairy animals, do they have these aviators as well? And I suppose we haven't defined Ava as we've been pretty good about the no acronyms rule. AVS is

2 (1h 11m 34s):
Arterial venous anastomosis. So a connection between the arteries and the veins. Now

0 (1h 11m 41s):
You actually use this technology. I have a bulldog bulldog master. He has a very high propensity for overheating cause they they're terrible at dumping heat and bulldogs are great at pushing themselves to the point of exhaustion or death. It ha it happens. And so now we do what we call Palmer cooling. Sorry, I couldn't help myself where I'll take Costello in, lower him into a cool body of water. Just that, just the bottoms of his puzzle though. I think animals instinctually know to do this and we'll go and stand in bodies of water. They don't often lie down all the way some do, but they seem to know that's a great way to cool themselves off.

0 (1h 12m 21s):
Yeah.

2 (1h 12m 22s):
Oh, absolutely. Yeah. And

0 (1h 12m 24s):
They get the advantage that their pump, that their palms and their feet are essentially the same things.

2 (1h 12m 28s):
We actually built devices for dogs. Did you really, and try them on, I did a rod sled dogs and it worked beautifully. They had little backpacks with the equipment and pads on all their feet and, and it worked beautifully amazing.

0 (1h 12m 43s):
And he's along the lines of heating, deliberate heating, wearing a knit cap is something that you see more of that on the east coast, you know, people run around Boston and new England, you know, with a, with a knit cap. I've always done that, that the start of my runs to try and warm up more quickly. And then I take it off. I shed layers as I go. Is that a rational practice? The way I just described it? Yeah. Cause warming up is important to you. You know, there's a certain amount of quote unquote warming up that's required to lubricate joints or at least to get the sense that joints are lubricated and to be able to move more easily. Yeah. Do you still recommend that people warm up?

2 (1h 13m 24s):
Yeah, but I think we're misled by the term warm up as if the major purpose is to raise temperature. I don't, I'm not aware of any data on this, but I do think that the major contribution is increasing flexibility. So you're going to avoid having damage of joints and tendons and ligaments and so forth. But also the ability of the mitochondria to produce energy can be impaired at low lower temperatures. And you have to keep in mind that we say our body temperature is 37 degrees, but that's not true.

2 (1h 14m 6s):
Yeah. It varies across the day. Well, it varies in parts of your body. I, my hands and arms are not at 37 degrees right now. They're much lower. Okay.

0 (1h 14m 16s):
So that raises an interesting question. What is the best way to measure core body temperature?

2 (1h 14m 22s):
Well, the best core temperature is that we use is a salvage seal. So we put a thermocouple up the nose and about two feet down the esophagus. So that is about the level of your art,

0 (1h 14m 35s):
Not Jim or home practical. Although I know, I don't know some of those COVID swab tests go pretty far. I can't even imagine going any further. I felt like my brain was getting tickled.

2 (1h 14m 47s):
Tympanic is a pretty good. So the ear new year, it's not foolproof because you have to actually have it aimed properly at the tympanum. And frequently what you're getting is you're getting sort of a mixture of tympanic plus ear canal, temperature

0 (1h 15m 2s):
And the, and for those listening and for those watching the tympanic is not going to be the pin that this part of the ear, the outer part of the, or the tympanic is going to be near the table, petty towards the tympanic membrane. And yes, I'm sticking my finger in my ear because that's where the laser would actually have to go to measure your temperature. Right. So when we're walking into restaurants and other places nowadays, and they're shining the laser at our forehead, that's probably giving a pretty crude readout of temperature.

2 (1h 15m 26s):
Yeah, it is. But there's much less insulation between your brain and your forehead skin than there is between your biceps and your arms skin. So if you're going to measure a surface temperature, that's where you would do it. And we do temperatures in the infrared. We, we take infrared videos of athletes and, and our, our subjects. And of course the face lights up.

0 (1h 15m 50s):
Okay. So if we're not, I imagine there's going to be a technology coming soon where you can point your smartwatch or your smartphone and yourself, and you're going to get a heat map. Right? That's got it. If somebody out there hasn't already invented this for the typical folks outside military, somebody please invent that because I think there's growing interest in temperature based on the work that you're doing. And also for sake of them, something I do want to touch on, which is sleep and metabolism. Although we don't want to open up those portals all the way, because we'd need a several days to cover it. Okay. So putting on the cap, what about some of the helmets and gloves that are used in typical sports?

0 (1h 16m 31s):
Do you think that those can be improved in order to improve performance in terms of their ventilation ability or keeping Palmer surfaces open, for instance?

2 (1h 16m 40s):
Well, you mentioned about the, the knit cap in cold weather, especially, and that is significant because you do lose a lot of heat from your head, but it's a constant heat loss. It's not variable like your glamorous skin. So if you decrease that heat loss, you're going to be warmer. So sure that, that, that has an impact. Now in terms of helmets, they should be ventilated. I mean, they should have enough space in them and holes in them so that air can circulate. You don't want to insulate thermally insulate your, your scalp.

2 (1h 17m 22s):
That's going to decrease heat loss, quite considerable, you know, just for a resting individual brain is about 20% of your metabolism. So that's, that's a lot of heat burns.

0 (1h 17m 32s):
Yeah, absolutely. I realized there was a question that I failed to ask earlier that is burning in my mind now. And I think is likely burning in the minds of, of some of the listeners, which is so you, if you do this cooling in between sets in the gym, you get this performance enhancing effect, you don't get the delayed onset muscle soreness, which is great. So presumably the body is adapting. You're getting better as a consequence of being able to do more work per unit time or to go harder in some way, of course you get that adaptation. Does that mean that you see a performance enhancing effect, even when you don't cool.

0 (1h 18m 15s):
If you've previously done the cooling workouts. So for instance, let's say I can do 10 sets of 10 dips, which I like to think I can. Maybe I need to go try. I dunno if I've done that recently, I do the cooling, I cool for three minutes between sets. And let's say I get to the point where I can do 20 for 10 sets, 10 sets of 20 repetitions. And then I don't cool. Will I be able to match or approximate my new, better performance?

2 (1h 18m 43s):
Keep your gains. It's a true conditioning effect. You respond to the increased work volume by all of those mech mechanisms. You mentioned you increase the number of contractual elements in your muscles. Muscles get bigger. Amazing. We had an experiment that involves some of our female students, not athletes, but just regular. They were freshmen actually. And the experiment was 10 sets of pushups to muscle failure with her, with the

0 (1h 19m 15s):
Cooling same regimen, three minutes of, of cooling in between sets of pushups.

2 (1h 19m 20s):
Some of those young ladies reached over 800 pushups.

0 (1h 19m 25s):
Now the total duration of the workout could be getting much longer as a consequence of doing

2 (1h 19m 30s):
No, it doesn't take you longer. Well, minor. I mean, push-up is pretty fast. Pretty fast. Yeah. So you do 10 sets the maximum 45 minutes total. The most that's a lot of pushups. That's a lot of pushups. Yeah. So the interesting thing is they came in one day and they said, Dr. Heller, you cost us a lot of money. Why? Well, we had a formal dance this weekend. We all had to buy new sleeveless dresses. Nice.

0 (1h 19m 55s):
It's a good problem to have good problem to have. Let's talk about steroids, anabolic steroids. We're heading into an Olympics every time the Olympics rolls around year, about these cases of people getting popped as they call it or caught for anabolic steroids. There's some accusations out there now there'll be more they'll, this'll get, you know, handled in the press and in the various organizations, clearly athletes and non-athletes use anabolic steroids. And typically anabolic steroids are of the testosterone variety. There are derivatives, et cetera, and those derivatives do different things and anabolic presented orogenic et cetera.

0 (1h 20m 37s):
But typically the idea is at least as I understand it, in talking to some of these individuals, is that they allow people to train more because they recover faster. They are able to synthesize more protein because they're basically getting a second puberty because as we all know, during puberty, there's a lot of growth of the body. And of course there are a lot of negative effects of abuse of these things. And they are banned from, from various sports organizations, especially I should mention in combat sports it's is especially concerning because in combat sports, a performance enhancement means that you can harm somebody more than you would be able to otherwise as opposed to in other sorts of sports, just to conceptualize it.

0 (1h 21m 23s):
And, and I'm not taking a moral stance on any of this. I just want to ask you, when you compare Palmer cooling to anabolic steroids in terms of gym performance, what do you see?

2 (1h 21m 38s):
Well, we do not do research on steroids, but there is a lot of research in the literature. A lot of that research in the strength conditioning magazines is not very scientific. No. Okay.

0 (1h 21m 56s):
But it might not even be scientific at all, but

2 (1h 21m 59s):
We did do an analysis of reputable papers and we did find, I think it was probably eight or nine, 10 studies on bench, press increase in bench, press performance on steroids or not. Okay. The more

0 (1h 22m 17s):
Males or females. Well,

2 (1h 22m 19s):
This were all males, but I'll get back to the females. Okay. The bottom line is that in all of these independent studies, their rate of improvement was approximately 1% per week. Okay. Okay. Now I've just told you about studies in which we've had 300% increase in a month. So

0 (1h 22m 47s):
It's an enormous, enormous difference.

2 (1h 22m 50s):
So why would you endanger your health as well as your legal ability to compete with such an ineffective tool?

0 (1h 22m 58s):
Yeah, no, I think it's the notion of performance enhancement is, is a really interesting one. People clearly pay attention to nutrition. Sleep is now something that I think everybody, but especially athletes are paying attention to. Right. And I predict that temperature will be one of the more powerful parameters that people are going to be focusing on. Yeah. Because it, because of the magnitude of the effects that you're describing. And, and also because so much of the variability around performance, as you mentioned, has to do with, when you go to a new environment, you know, everyone has their home environment worked out pretty well, sleep well in your own bed at home.

0 (1h 23m 41s):
You, when you can control everything, your performance is always great. This is why I think military special operators are particularly interesting group because their whole world is centered around elite and high performance at, with very high risk, high consequence under variable conditions. The essence of their work is variable unpredictable conditions. So you mentioned female athletes and steroids. I'm curious about this.

2 (1h 24m 7s):
Yeah, because everybody has always said to us, well, you only use male subjects and obviously they have this testosterone backgrounds, you know, they have higher levels of testosterone. That's why you get these results. So we did a comparative study on females. We get the same results,

0 (1h 24m 23s):
Impressive. And these are our Stanford athletes, or

2 (1h 24m 26s):
Also these were not Stanford. They were Stanford students, but not athletes will. We have done of course work on some athletes. But in general, we don't do research on our teams, our varsity teams, they have their own protocols, they have their own training programs. They don't like us to get too close to them.

0 (1h 24m 45s):
I work with some of these folks in the coaches and they are very skeptical with good reason also. And the reason I ask is that I, when you see these PAC 10 or, or division one college athletes, and then you see their peers of theirs, there's clearly a, a difference, right? I mean, they, they are pedigreed that throughout right. And more typical folks also have different goals that they may not want to get infinitely stronger or, or perform more endurance work. So I want to ask you a couple of things about shivering and metabolism. Cause I think they're very interesting and sufficiently related.

0 (1h 25m 25s):
So my understanding is that shiver is an adaptation that's designed to heat us up. Yes. That we have brown fat that's in compartments, around our body that are activated by shiver or co activated by shiver. And that shivering is useful for increasing metabolism. Is that true? And does it require that cold be the stimulus? So two, two scenarios. I'll give you an experiment. I put someone into cold water of some sort and then I make them get out or I have them stand near it. And then they start shivering. My understanding is that their, their metabolism will increase. What if I take someone and I just have them shiver, but they're not exposed by cool.

0 (1h 26m 8s):
It's kind of a deliberate shivering. Will that also create a substantial increase in metabolism? Sure.

2 (1h 26m 16s):
So deliberate shivering without cold is essentially what happens when you get a fever, your set point goes up and your hypothalamus and you actually, even though you're a normal body temperature, your thermostat is telling you you're too cold, increase your metabolism. So shiver, right. So sure. Shivering is a, is a good way of increasing metabolism, but it only can take metabolism up maybe three or four times resting. Okay. Whereas exercise can take you up, you know, 10 times.

0 (1h 26m 48s):
Got it. All right. I'm going to ask a couple of more random questions and seemingly random do bears actually hibernate. Oh yeah. That true hibernation.

2 (1h 26m 58s):
Well, it depends on how you define true a bear. Actually. We've done a lot of work on bears.

0 (1h 27m 5s):
We we've do you also put the nose thermal couple down in the esophagus.

2 (1h 27m 9s):
We implant them surgically

0 (1h 27m 11s):
They're anesthetized when you implant them, what kind of bears

2 (1h 27m 14s):
Black bears and did this with colleagues at university of Alaska. And we're analyzing the data now, but what we've done is we've, we've had now a total of 18 bears and we implant them with EEG, EKG, temperature, sensors. And sometimes we actually measure their oxygen consumption. These are bears in the wild. These are bears in the wild, but they're brought in to university of Alaska where we keep them in an outdoor enclosure. So they're hibernating in a nest box in a, an enclosure. And we're recording this electrophysiological data continuously for six months. Amazing.

0 (1h 27m 48s):
Get on this protocol, Craig and I are doing some work together going forward. And a Navy can slide me onto this protocol to

2 (1h 27m 57s):
Right now, it's a matter of just analyzing the gigabytes terabytes of data that have been collected. So, but anyway, you asked about hibernation. So bears only go down to about 33, 34 degrees, centigrade and core temperature. And that's been argued that well, they can't go lower because they have so much insulation. They're so big, they're surface volume ratio and so forth. And that's not true. They shiver. So if, if we have a day like a minus 40, which you get up in Alaska and they will go through periods of shivering and maintain a core temperature on 33 34. Now the ground squirrels and the marmots, which are small, smaller animals, they will drop down to a body temperature, maybe within a degree of the environment.

2 (1h 28m 48s):
So they can go down to one or two degrees centigrade just above freezing during bouts of hibernation. So they'll stay in hibernation for seven or eight days and they'll come back up to normal body temperature for a day. Then they'll go back down. And on that day, when they're

0 (1h 29m 2s):
Warming up again,

2 (1h 29m 3s):
Do they rearrange their nests eat? If they've stored food, some species store, lots of food. Others just depend on their fat, a

0 (1h 29m 12s):
Former mentor, mine, my master's degree mentor, and a colleague in front of yours, Irving Zucker at UC Berkeley told me a story once told me a lot of stories. He tells great stories. As you know, he told me that when an animal comes out of hibernation periodically, that it's a very dramatic thing to observe that it's not like they wake up and yawn and look around, but it's like a, like a complete epileptic seizure, right? Wha what's going on here? It's just a very traumatic shiver.

2 (1h 29m 42s):
So at the low temperatures, they cannot shiver because the effective temperature on the conduction of the Mo of the nerves and the muscle fiber they're shutting down, basically shut down. So there they use brown fat, so activate brown fat. And then when they get up to a temperature of maybe 15, 16 degrees centigrade, then the shivering starts and it gets very, very violent, but they're still asleep.

0 (1h 30m 7s):
Do we shiver in our sleep?

2 (1h 30m 9s):
I would imagine we do, but it probably wakes us up. Interesting.

0 (1h 30m 13s):
So the brown fat is kind of like kindling.

2 (1h 30m 16s):
The brown fat is a tissue, which has lots of stored energy because it's fat, but unlike our weight fat, our regular fat, it also has lots of these little powerhouses, mitochondria and lots of blood supply. So essentially it is a tissue just to produce heat. That's what it's there for now in these hibernators, there are big patches of brown fat at certain locations that are critical, like around the heart. For example, for us, the brown fat is sort of distributed. So for many, many years, it was thought humans don't have brown fat, but indeed we do. It's just not localized into discrete fat pads.

2 (1h 30m 59s):
Like it is in ground squirrels. Marmots

0 (1h 31m 3s):
I don't know why the phrase fat pads is so satisfying to say, but it is fat pads. Speaking of fat pads, I was taught that we have by the internet, I should say I was taught by the internet that we have brown fat between our scapulae and our upper neck. Is that truly a source of brown enrichment for brown fat, if

2 (1h 31m 25s):
You're a ground squirrel. So

0 (1h 31m 27s):
It's complete, this is all the drawings out there. Okay. So what I'm, what I'm hearing you say is that brown fat is actually distributed in past humans.

2 (1h 31m 34s):
It's distributed along with other fat tissue. It's an, it's not as discreet.

0 (1h 31m 41s):
So the reason I'm, I'm kind of shocked and amused and troubled by this is because there is a somewhat standard protocol in the performance, wellness, whatever a world, whatever you want to call it, of putting ice packs on the upper back as a way to stimulate brown fat thermogenesis. I'm, I'm hearing some, some inhales of concern from, from the physiologists. So tell me why. It sounds like that's probably not the best way to stimulate brown fat activation. Well,

2 (1h 32m 16s):
Let's put it this way.

0 (1h 32m 17s):
You're not attacking anyone specifically because the whole little believes this,

2 (1h 32m 21s):
But it may not be totally facetious or false. Think of what that's doing. If you put ice right there where your spinal cord is close to the surface, that's where you're going to hit the vertebral arteries. So you're essentially putting a cold source into the brain, to the hypothalamus. The hypothalamus is your to a cold. So it is going to turn on shivering and brown fat. So

0 (1h 32m 49s):
Would there be a better site for sake of activating brown fat Palmer cooling?

2 (1h 32m 59s):
You know, I, I can't say because the activation of brown fat is a sympathetic nervous system response. So any lowering of core temperature that will let the thermostat say you're too cold is going to turn on sympathetic. Now people will have perhaps different amounts of brown fat. So newborn have more brown fat and adults

0 (1h 33m 26s):
Newborns can't shiver. Correct? I don't know. Okay. That's it. That's what I read. I don't know if it's true. I read, I read that in what I believe to be credible sources.

2 (1h 33m 35s):
Yeah, it could be. I just don't know. It depends on if it's really newborn. I can agree because you don't have all of the motor pathways connected up yet. That's something that occurs in early days of life and is probably one of the functions of REM sleep, which infants have a lot of. Right. Okay. But how to activate brown fat, if you are consistently exposed to coal. So if you live in the Arctic and you go out jogging in the winter, maybe that will increase the amount of brown fat you have. If you live in the tropics, maybe you have less brown. I don't know. I don't know of any studies which have looked into that.

2 (1h 34m 18s):
Okay.

0 (1h 34m 19s):
Ice headache sometimes I'll drink a cold beverage roll, eat ice cream in my head will brain freeze, brain freeze. And speaking of special forces I was talking to, you know, we all see the images of the seals, seal training slash screening in Cornado, where they're going in and out of the Pacific, which is very cold. But I know they also spend some time in the very cold waters of Kodiak Alaska. You mentioned Alaska brain freeze, so-called ice. Headache is a common occurrence there in those situations, but we all have experienced this. We eat ice. You get that brain freeze it. I can feel it right now.

0 (1h 34m 59s):
A little bit subjectively. I can induce it. What's going on there. And I would always just rub my tongue on the roof of my mouth. Is there something that I'm doing that's functional there just to try and alleviate it.

2 (1h 35m 11s):
Good question. The thing is that the roof of your mouth is very close to your hypothalamus. So if indeed it's a Popsicle, that's giving you the brain freeze. It may be a direct cooling effect from the roof of your mouth. And you put your tongue there, you're insulating the roof of your mouth. I don't know, I'm guessing,

0 (1h 35m 30s):
But what's the, what's the source of the brain freezes it at vasoconstriction.

2 (1h 35m 34s):
It's a V it's, it's a vasomotor change. Whether it's constriction. I think it's more likely of as an increase in blood pressure, which will essentially cause an expansion of the arteries and activate pain receptors. We don't have pain receptors in the neural tissue in the brain. We have them in the <inaudible> and predominantly associated with the, the blood vessels in the walls of the blood vessels. So if you have something which will dramatically increase your blood pressure, going to the brain, you're likely to get, we've had some preliminary data. I even hate to mention this because we have not been able to pursue it systematically, but we've had some experience with people with migraine that say, if they use one of our devoid devices to heat, that the migraine goes away and don't know.

0 (1h 36m 32s):
Yeah, it's very injured. A lot of people suffer from migraine. I know there are a lot of different types of migraine. I've been reading a lot about this lately because I get so many questions about migraine, but I'd hate to say

2 (1h 36m 43s):
Anything. And

0 (1h 36m 44s):
We'll just underscore this as preliminary and people are, have been great about understanding that when we say preliminary, we mean it has not passed through the, the required filters to call it hard, hard fact. Yeah,

2 (1h 36m 58s):
We don't, we don't even have a decent dataset. It's just this, these are anecdotal reports. Yeah.

0 (1h 37m 2s):
Anecdata as well. But I don't even like to call it that because then if we don't want to give it more weight than it deserves, but that's interesting the ice headache and the increase in blood. Pressure's interesting because the only thing that I've heard is similar to it is something that comes from, you know, they have these competitions where people eat these very hot chili peppers. You know, it's kind of a, an ego thing, I guess, for reasons that escape me, that eating really hot peppers. And every once in a while, someone will eat one of these and get what's called Thunderclap headache, where a headache comes on extremely quickly and so quickly that it's caused. And so severe rather that it's been known to cause stroke and brain damage.

0 (1h 37m 44s):
So these very, very, very hot peppers, if you're not acclimated to them. And maybe even if you are, have been shown to cause actually cause brain damage. Yeah. Some good evidence for this. I do want to talk about something that we have not touched on yet, which is neat. Non-exercise induced thermogenesis, right? The so non-activity associated thermogenesis and the fidgeters right? So the, the classic work of like Rothwell in stock and the idea that some people who overeat are burning off that energy by way of shaking their knee or moving around a lot, these are the kind of nurse they quote, quote unquote nervous types, but they quoted in those studies, a huge degree of caloric burn, you know, 800 2500 calories per day, burned above those who sit rather still does that seem farfetched.

0 (1h 38m 42s):
Those are older data, but any, any comment on neat or non exercise induced

2 (1h 38m 48s):
Thermogenesis? Well, I do think it's pretty straight forward that if you increase muscle activity of any kind you're increasing your energy consumption and your heat production, and no, the, the really extreme example is hyper and hypo. Thyroidism people that are hyperthyroid or fidgety. And, you know, they have very metabolic rate and they're hot and people that are hypothermic are cool. They're not, they don't move very much. So any kind of muscle activity increases. And when you say, you know, it's not much activity, but remember it's only 20% effective, 80% of the energy is going to heat.

2 (1h 39m 28s):
So it may not exert much energy to tap your foot. But four times the amount of energy that is going into the movement is being lost as heat.

0 (1h 39m 39s):
That's very interesting. A couple more quick questions. There's a lot of excitement these days, or at least usage these days of so-called energy drinks or pre-workout drinks. Many of these contain thermogenic compounds. So caffeine things, there's a culture now of taking our Jeanine things that support our Janine. So beet juice and L citrulline things to dilate the blood vessels. Sometimes this is for sake of, of increasing blood flow to the muscles during resistance exercise. But a lot of these are thermogenic is to increase body temperature. And are, is it possible that some of these energy drinks are actually, or similar, you know, six espresso or whatever it is, are acting to prevent optimal performance or reduce perform?

2 (1h 40m 29s):
I don't think that the, the temperature rise is that I really don't know, but what it does is it makes you more jittery and you're going to increase that neat that you were talking about the, or as another thing. And that is that when you are exercising your muscle and it becomes slightly hypoxic, I mean, it's the oxygen suppliers isn't is not enough. The muscle releases adenosine. And what adenosine does in the muscle is caused the blood vessels to open up to dilate. So it's a way of increasing the blood flow to the muscle and therefore the oxygen supply to the muscle.

2 (1h 41m 12s):
So caffeine

0 (1h 41m 13s):
Is an essentially an ad, an antagonist

2 (1h 41m 15s):
Antagonist.

0 (1h 41m 17s):
So if the under the strict logic ingesting caffeine will reduce adenosine release and we're, we'll reduce oxygen utilization of the muscle. So that would lead me to believe that motivational support aside that caffeine will hinder muscular performance.

2 (1h 41m 37s):
I would think so, but I, I, I can't give you an authoritative answer on that. Okay.

0 (1h 41m 44s):
We're just going through the, the logic and the gymnastics around that. But I think it's a fascinating area that deserves attention because the question of what one can ingest in order to perform better, to say nothing over, you know, hormone augmentation, but has often leads back to stimulants. And if those stimulants, most of which include caffeine of some sort or inhibiting the adenosine system and the it doesn't system is supporting the oxygenation of muscle. Then I would imagine that avoiding them might be the better option.

2 (1h 42m 22s):
Yeah. I just am not aware of, of data that would, so this is a general phenomenon of an NSC and, and blood flow. It has of course, a different effect in the brain. Adenosine causes sleep. So caffeine keeps you awake, and if you stay awake, you're going to have a higher metabolic rate than if you go to sleep. So, and the thing is you say, you know, energy drinks, the question is, you know, what really is, is it,

0 (1h 42m 52s):
It's usually a cocktail of things. I don't take these. I don't like them at all, but they're usually a combination of visa, dilators, stimulant caffeine, some sort of standard

2 (1h 43m 1s):
Source of glucose. Usually sometimes the

0 (1h 43m 3s):
Source of glucose and sometimes not. And oftentimes there are, there are vasodilators and there are compounds that are thought to be so-called nootropics, smart drugs that basically increase acetylcholine or norepinephrine transmission, you know, in the, in the eighties and nineties, the beta three agonist like Clenbuterol were very popular, but they were all banned. So those are all banned from, from although people use them recreationally, which I do not recommend. There are actually a number of deaths due to dehydration overheating, as well as cardiac effects. Before we wrap up, I, I know you've done a ton of work on sleep.

0 (1h 43m 47s):
I think we're going to have to do another episode about your work on sleep, because your, the amount of data that you produce there is vast actually. So I first got to know you and your work related to sleep and temperature. We all hear nowadays that it's good to keep the room that you sleep in. Cool. Keep it dark. I've talked a number of times on podcasts episodes about the role of light and shifting and circadian rhythms. I have two questions related to sleep. One is, are there any things that may or may not relate to temperature, but that you think are very useful for getting better sleep, that you don't hear that much about, that people might want to consider or try realizing that there are a lot of reasons why people don't sleep great, but what are some things that you don't hear that much about these days that you wish people knew?

2 (1h 44m 43s):
Well, the sleep medicine community now puts a lot more emphasis on cognitive behavioral therapy than on pharmacology. So what cognitive behavioral therapy does is it essentially increases your sleep hygiene. So there are certain just general rules. So have a regular bedtime and a regular arousal time. Don't be skipping back and forth all the time.

0 (1h 45m 9s):
Arousal. You mean wake up time, wake up time spoken like a true physio.

2 (1h 45m 17s):
Another thing is don't use screens within a couple hours of bedtime because screens are prom predominantly rich in blue light. And what that does is you mentioned the circadian system that affects your circadian system that pushes off your circadian stimulus for sleep. Okay. Another thing is of course, a relax being don't work right up until the time you're going to bed, take some time to do something relaxing and then temperature. You you've mentioned that. And for many people, a warm bath, you know, is, is really conducive to good sleep.

2 (1h 45m 57s):
And people are now swearing by a cooler environment for sleep. And that makes sense in terms of the circadian effect on body temperature. So our circadian clock is effecting our thermostat. So at the time we go to bed, our thermostat is on its way down to a lower set point. Yeah. So what happens? You go to bed and you're feeling a little bit cool. So you pile on lots of blankets. And then what happens is you wake up a little bit later in your hot, so you throw them off it's because your thermostat as set downward. Now, why is it better to have a cooler environment?

2 (1h 46m 38s):
It's better to have a cool environment because it's easier to Thermo regulate. So you can go to Europe in the summertime and the hotel rooms still have these big comforters, these down comforters. So how do you deal with that? You stick out your hands and your legs.

0 (1h 46m 55s):
I've always slept with one leg that just kind of hang hangs out of the yeah.

2 (1h 47m 0s):
They're your heat loss surfaces, right? So if you're in a cool environment, you can take advantage of that. You can take advantage by passively regulating your body temperature. You don't have to arrive, get up and wake up and say, oh my God, I got to change the covers or blankets, or what have you, if you're in a warm environment, what can you do?

0 (1h 47m 20s):
And you need to sleep with one hand in the cool Mitt, right? And right now that's not available yet. It's not available. I've never, I've never heard about it that way. I've always heard you want to sleep in a cool room or keep the room cold. Yeah. But I never realized why that's useful, which is, as you're, you're saying that, then you can move your, these glamour surfaces in and out. You could even wake up under the blanket completely. Very, very interesting that finally, a rational science grounded explanation for why we need to sleep in a cool room. Cause I always thought, well, if your temperature is going down anyway, why do you have to sleep in a cool room? What about wearing socks while you sleep? That was a big, a few years ago where they said, you know, you should put socks on.

0 (1h 48m 3s):
Now. I would think that's probably the wrong advice.

2 (1h 48m 6s):
Well, I don't know if it's wrong advice. There's an old, old study that was supported by, I think Eddie Bauer, the sleeping bag company and what the study showed w what the study was asking is where, what are the most temperature sensitive spots in the body? Where do you feel cold? And what that showed was it was the toes.

0 (1h 48m 29s):
So it makes sense. So when you sample water with your toe, you always see that. So,

2 (1h 48m 33s):
So the, the socks essentially are promoting thermal comfort by insulating that area. That's quite sensitive. Now, of course, if it's too warm, you're not going to put socks on, right.

0 (1h 48m 44s):
Well, Craig, thank you so much. You gave so much information. That's actionable and interesting. I know a lot of people are going to be really interested in the Palmer cooling technology from cool Mitt. We will be sure to provide resources to the website so that people can register interest. I do encourage people to play around with so to speak the, the Palmer cooling technology that we all have, which are know these glamorous surfaces. And also just want to thank you for taking time out of your busy schedule to share

2 (1h 49m 20s):
This information. It was fun. It was lots

0 (1h 49m 23s):
Of fun. I certainly learned a lot and I know a lot of people are going to learn a lot and that's useful to them. This questions well, fabulous answers. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you for joining for my discussion with Dr. Craig Heller. If you're enjoying this podcast and learning from it, please subscribe to our YouTube channel as well. You can give us feedback in the comment section on YouTube as to topics you would like us to cover future guests and so on. Also, please subscribe to the podcast on apple and on Spotify and on apple, you have the opportunity to leave us up to a five star review and you can leave us a comment or feedback there as well. Please also check out our sponsors that we mentioned at the beginning of the podcast. That's a terrific way to support our podcast.

0 (1h 50m 5s):
In addition, if you're interested in supporting research in the Huberman lab at Stanford, you can go to Huberman lab.stanford.edu/giving. And there you can make a tax deductible donation to support research in my laboratory on stress, human performance, sleep and trauma and topics of that sort. If you're not already following us at Huberman lab on Instagram or Twitter, you're welcome to do so on Instagram, I do short neuroscience tutorials that are separate from the tutorials that I tend to do on the podcast.

Thorne (1h 50m 35s):
Often on this podcast, we discuss supplements. One of the really important things, if you're going to take supplements, is that the supplements be of the highest quality ingredients and that the amount of those ingredients that's listed on the label actually matches what is in those supplements. We've partnered with Thorne, T H O R N E because thorn has the highest levels of stringency in terms of quality and how much of each supplement they put in their products. If you'd like to see the supplements that I take, you can go to Thorne T H or any.com/the letter U slash Huberman. And there, you can see what I take. You can get 20% off any of those supplements. If you enter the thorn site through that portal. And even if you navigate to other products and other product pages within the thorn site, you can still get that 20% off. So it's Thorne T H or e.com/the letter U slash Huberman

0 (1h 51m 26s):
and last, but certainly not least thank you for your interest in science.