Andrew Huberman (0s):
Welcome to the Huberman Lab podcast where we discuss science and science-based tools for everyday life. I'm Andrew Huberman and I'm a professor of neurobiology and ophthalmology at Stanford School of Medicine. Today my guest is Dr. Sachin Panda. Dr. Sachin Panda is a professor and director of the regulatory biology Laboratory at the Sulk Institute of Biological Studies. His laboratory has made numerous important contributions that impact mental health, physical health, and human performance. For instance, his laboratory discovered the neurons in the eye and neurons within the brain that regulate our so-called circadian rhythms. Circadian rhythms are 24 hour rhythms in everything from gene expression to the overall functioning of tissues, our levels of mood and alertness, our ability to sleep, appetite, and much, much more.

Andrew Huberman (50s):
In addition, over the last decade, Dr. Panda's laboratory has made critical discoveries in terms of how our patterns of eating over time impact our biology and our health. In particular, his laboratory pioneer discoveries related to so-called intermittent fasting, also sometimes referred to as time-restricted feeding. Today, Dr. Panda and I discuss how our circadian behaviors, everything from when we wake up to when we view light, to when we avoid viewing light, to when we eat, and what we eat and when we socialize, and how we socialize impacts our biology and our psychology, and how all of that has a strong impact on our health. During today's discussion, you will learn how restricting your feeding to specific periods within each 24 hour cycle or perhaps even exploring longer patterns of fasting and eating cycles can impact everything from the health of your liver to your gut, to your brain, and how all of that impacts things like mood and your ability to perform cognitive work.

Andrew Huberman (1m 51s):
Indeed, today's discussion goes deep into all aspects of intermittent fasting, AK time-restricted feeding. We talk about the basic science as well as the recent clinical trials that have explored time restricted feeding in a diverse range of people, including men, women, children, people with diabetes, people who are otherwise healthy and much, much more. I'm quite aware that intermittent fasting is a topic of much debate these days. We go deep into that debate, and by the end of today's discussion, you can be certain that you will have learned all the latest and all the details all made very clear to you, thanks to the incredible expertise, discovery, and clear communication of Dr.

Andrew Huberman (2m 31s):
Panda. As some of you may already know, Dr. Panda has authored several important books on the topic of intermittent fasting and how it can benefit various aspects of health. Those books include the circadian code and a more recent book, the Circadian Diabetes Code, both of which we've provided links to in the show note captions. In addition, if any of you are interested in learning more about Dr. Panda's work, including seeing his publications and reading those publications or supporting his laboratory, you can do that by going to his laboratory website, which we have also linked in the show note captions. Before we begin, I'd like to emphasize that this podcast is separate from my teaching and research roles at Stanford. It is however, part of my desire and effort to bring zero cost to consumer information about science and science related tools to the general public.

Andrew Huberman (3m 15s):
In keeping with that theme, I'd like to thank the sponsors of today's podcast.

Hvmn (3m 19s):
Our first sponsor is H V M N Keto iq, H V M N. Keto IQ is a supplement that increases blood ketones. I want to be clear that I am not following a ketogenic diet. Most people fall into this category. They are not following a ketogenic diet. They are omnivores and they do eat carbohydrates, so their standard fuel source for the brain and body is not ketones. However, I found that by taking KE iq, which we know increases blood ketones, I can achieve much better focus for longer periods of time for any kind of cognitive work and much greater energy levels for exercise, especially if I'm going into that exercise fasted and find myself a little bit hungry when I start that exercise. And this is no surprise, we know that ketones are the brains and body's preferred fuel source even if you're not following a ketogenic diet. So in other words, I and many other people are now starting to leverage endogenous ketones as a fuel source for the brain and body, and yet we are not following a ketogenic diet. And of course, if you are fall following a ketogenic diet, ke IQ will further allow you to increase your blood ketones as a source of brain and body fuel. If you'd like to try Keto iq, you can go to hvm n.com/huberman to save 20% off your order. Again, that's hvm n.com/huberman.

Eight Sleep (4m 33s):
Today's episode is also brought to us by eight Sleep. Eight Sleep Makes Smart mattress covers with cooling, heating and sleep tracking capacity. As I've talked about before on the Huberman Lab podcast, there is a critical relationship between sleep and body temperature. That is in order to fall asleep and stay deeply asleep, your body temperature needs to drop by about one to three degrees, and in order to wake up in the morning and feel alert, your body temperature needs to increase by about one to three degrees. The problem with most people's sleeping environment is that even if you make the room cool, the actual environment that you sleep on that is your mattress and underneath your covers is hard to regulate in terms of temperature. With eight sleep regulating the temperature of that sleeping environment becomes incredibly easy. In fact, you can change the temperature of that environment across the night, making it a little bit cool at the beginning of the night, even cooler, still a few hours into your sleep, which really helps getting into very deep sleep and then warming it as you approach morning so that you wake up feeling most alert. I've been sleeping on an eight sleep mattress cover for over a year now, and it has completely transformed my sleep. If you'd like to try eight sleep, you can go to eight sleep.com/huberman to save up to $150 off their pod three, cover eight Sleep. Currently ships in the usa, Canada, uk select countries in the EU and Australia. Again, that's eight sleep.com/huberman.

Thesis (5m 51s):
Today's episode is also brought to us by thesis. Thesis makes Custom Neutropics. Now, I am not not a fan of the word neutropics because it translates to smart drugs, and as a neuroscientist, what I can tell you is that you have circuits in your brain that allow you to focus. You have circuits in your brain that allow you to be creative. You have circuits in your brain that allow you to task switch and on and on. In other words, there is no specific brain circuit or even circuits for being quote unquote. Smart thesis understands this and has developed neutropics that are customized to different types of mental operations. What do I mean by that? Well, they have formulas that can put your brain into a state of increased clarity or focus or creativity, or that can give you more overall energy. For things like physical exercise, I often take the thesis clarity formula prior to long bouts of cognitive work, and I'll use their energy formula prior to doing any kind of really intense physical exercise. If you'd like to try your own personalized neutropic starter kit, go online to take thesis.com/huberman.You'll take a brief three minute quiz and thesis will send you four different formulas to try in your first month. Again, that's take thesis.com/huberman, and if you use the code huberman at checkout, you'll get 10% off your order.

Momentous (7m 5s):
The huberman Lab podcast is now partnered with momentous supplements. To find the supplements we discuss on the huberman Lab podcast, you can go to live momentus spelled O U s live momentus.com/huberman. And I should just mention that the library of those supplements is constantly expanding. Again, that's live momentus.com/huberman.

Andrew Huberman (7m 23s):
And now for my discussion with Dr. Sachin Panda, Sachin, Dr. Panda, so good to see you again. Yeah, great to see you. We are colleagues still, but we used to be right across the street from one another in San Diego. Yeah, I remember those days. Yeah. Yeah. So I'm delighted that you're here. I think we're going to talk about a number of things, mainly intermittent fasting, time-restricted feeding and health, but also the many other things that you're doing. Just before we started recording, we were discussing your recent paper in nature that involve recordings from postmortem human retina. So maybe if there's time at the end we can get back to your lab has shown that it can essentially maintain or resurrect neurons from dead people in order to potentially and eventually provide transplants to rescue vision in the blind.

Andrew Huberman (8m 12s):
So that's extremely exciting, but of course not the main focus of today's discussion. So I'll have to split it up. The first question I have is how am I supposed to define fasting and time-restricted feeding in meaning when I go to sleep every night, I'm not eating. Yeah, so in some sense everybody is doing time-restricted feeding to some degree or another. Yeah. At what point can we start thinking about a pattern of eating as time-restricted feeding, so-called intermittent fasting? Does it have to do with how regular one is about the start and stop times? How do you think about defining intermittent fasting time-restricted feeding? And maybe just to simplify the conversation, is one term more correct than the other in terms of describing this incredible pattern of feeding?

Dr. Satchin Panda (9m 0s):
Well, you know that intermittent fasting covers many types of fasting. Actually, it started long time ago, and it's embedded into the history of calorie restriction almost a hundred years ago. People showed that if you reduce calorie intake in a rat, then that rat can leave for a long time, and in those experiments, the calories were reduced every single day, and that led to the idea that if we cut down our calories by 20%, say, then we can potentially live longer by doing two things. One is preventing related disease, or even if we fall, fall sick, maybe we can accelerate cure and keep the repair mechanism going so that we can live longer.

Dr. Satchin Panda (9m 52s):
But it was very difficult to count calories every day and reduce, maintain that. I must say that it's not that calorie restriction is impossible or we are not doing it. In fact, lot of us, we do count calories in our subconscious mind means every time you took out a, you take out, we take out a soda bottle or something. I'm looking at it, okay, hundred 60 kilo K, 30 kilo K, zero kilo K, we are doing that. So the point is, it's, it's, we are doing subconsciously some kind of calorie counting, but reducing calorie by 20, 30% every single day is not possible for many people.

Dr. Satchin Panda (10m 34s):
So then the idea came in mouse and rat experiment, whether they can eat every other day, and in fact, this every other day, feeding also led to very similar, almost equivalent health improvement as continuous calorie restriction. So then the idea was, well, every other day is a little bit hard for humans, but just imagine I would just get to eat only one day and then another day. Then the idea came, well, for humans can they eat less for one or two days in the week?

Dr. Satchin Panda (11m 15s):
So that led to this five two diet where people can eat for five days and then two days they have to reduce calories. So that's also intermittently people are fasting. Then as you know, Walter Longo also came with this idea that periodic fasting maybe four or five days in every month or two months, three months, you can fast or reduce calorie. And he also found many benefits of calorie restriction. Was there

Andrew Huberman (11m 41s):
Were those studies on humans.

Dr. Satchin Panda (11m 43s):
Many of the studies started in in mice, but alternate day, fasting five two and Walter's periodic fasting, all of them have now been done in humans, not for longevity of course, because cannot do those for a long time, but for wet maintenance, for reducing some signs of aging or reversing, those things have been done. So all of them have been done in humans, mostly healthy humans, and in some cases people with pre-diabetes or some aspects of metabolic disease. So that led to the idea that that all these forms of fasting in which the total calorie intake on any given day is reduced for one or more days in a week, a month.

Dr. Satchin Panda (12m 31s):
That became, that umbrella term became intermittent fasting. So if you look up the scientific literature, most intermittent fasting involves intentionally reducing calories for at least one or two days in a week or few days in a month. So when we published time restricted feeding the initial mouse experiments, and even now most of the mouse experiments, we want to test what is the impact of time restriction versus calorie restriction. So in these experiments, we don't reduce calorie on any day of mouse life.

Dr. Satchin Panda (13m 12s):
So the mice is the same number of calories as the A libitum fe mice, but still they sea health benefit. So that's why we call it time restricted fitting, but since it involves living without food for several hours, for some people, which is, it can be very difficult, the initial experiments was done, they were done for eight hours of feeding and 16 hours of fasting. That kind of became popular. And so that, that's why people use the same term as intermittent fasting. And now if you say intermittent fasting in popular literature or popular media, then people usually refer to time restricted.

Dr. Satchin Panda (13m 55s):
Got it. So now coming back to how do you define time restrictive feeding? So the way we have been trying to define experimentally and also in literature is trying to confine all your energy intake from solid and liquid food combined within a consistent window of eight to 12 hours, because that's something that do, of course, people have done time restrictive treating with four hours, six hours, and some people even try to eat everything within two hours, one meal a day. But the point is those are not feasible to maintain for very long time for a lot of people.

Andrew Huberman (14m 40s):
One question about the six hour versus eight hour versus 12 hour feeding window, is it important that the feeding window begin and end at the same time? Yeah, more or less? Yeah, more or less. And if so, how much flexibility is there? So for instance, I'm somebody that I am not terribly hungry in the morning. I like to drink water, usually some caffeine and electrolytes. Yeah, in the period before my first meal. Yeah. And my first meal always lands sometime between 11 and 11:00 AM and 12 noon. Yeah, there are exceptions. Yeah. Occasionally I'll have a breakfast, a proper breakfast as it's called. I guess it would be improper if you're intermittent fasting for me.

Andrew Huberman (15m 22s):
But typically 11:00 AM or noon is when I first eat, and my last bite of food is typically around, I don't know, 8, 8 30 9:00 PM That's what works for me. Yeah. Is that consistency affording me any benefit sep, and let's just leave aside total caloric number macronutrients, plant-based meat, et cetera, but is there any benefit to shortening that feeding window that we are aware of or extending that feeding window or being even more rigid about the start and end of that feeding window?

Dr. Satchin Panda (15m 54s):
Yeah, so the start of the feeding window, that's interesting because I, the concept of timeless feeding, when I describe animal studies, it's feeding for humans. It's eating. So the concept actually came from the science of security and rhythm. So that means our body has an internal timetable that's present in every cell, in every organ that pre-programmed many molecular aspects of the cells that layers to physiology and all that stuff. So that essentially there is a predetermined timetable for every cell, every organ to do certain things at certain time.

Dr. Satchin Panda (16m 41s):
And the circadian clocks, as you and I know, are more sensitive to light, light as the most dominant time giver. So for example, when daylight saving time changes, or when we travel from one time zone to another time zone, we feel kind of crappy because our daily activities are out of sync from our internal clock. So that was known for a very long time. But then around the year 2000, 2002, there was a famous experiment by Uli Siebler from Switzerland.

Dr. Satchin Panda (17m 21s):
What he did, he just fed the mice at the wrong time. Mice are knocked on all there night feeders, and when he fed mice during daytime and the liver clock, instead of following its own routine, liver clock actually started following food. So that means by changing our feeding time, we can change, we can tune our liver clock, and subsequently the same experiment has been repeated many times. And even we repeated that in 2009 and we figured out, yes, actually outside this brain center called supra, charismatic nucleus or S C N, which is considered the master security clock, almost rest of the brain even follows when we eat.

Dr. Satchin Panda (18m 12s):
And that came out from Pierre Shams lab in Europe where they systematically looked at even places that are very close to the S scm for those who are who know, or some medial hypothalamus or para ventricle nucleus, all of this within couple of four or five millimeters of the S scn. But they were following food queue. Amazing. So then now if we think about it, so for example, when the daylight seven time changes, just one hour change or one hour change in alignment between our internal time and external time leads to kind of filling groggy and filling, not at a peak for performance for one or two days.

Dr. Satchin Panda (18m 59s):
So the rule of thumb is when the time giver changes by one hour, then our internal clock takes at least a day to catch up. So that means if you're flying from LA to New York, you are moving through three time zones. Then on an average, it'll take three, three days to catch up with the New York time. For some people it can be even slower, and for some people it can be two days. But the bottom line is yes, there is a desynchrony. So then what does it mean for the body? So the one of the function of the clock is to anticipate when you're going to wake up, for example.

Dr. Satchin Panda (19m 40s):
So the blood pressure slightly goes up or heart rate goes up, a breathing goes up. Similarly for food, almost every organ that is involved in feeding or eating digestion, all of them have CLOs. So even from saliva production, that's the first phase of digestion to secretion of all the digestive juice and the stomach, and then abjection of nutrient and liver metabolism, everything. The whole villa is expects when you're supposed to eat and they're getting ready for you to eat the first meal after fasting for long time.

Dr. Satchin Panda (20m 21s):
So that's why it's breaking the fast of breakfast. And when that time changes, when you change it by two or three hours from one day to another, then sometimes they're like, oh, food didn't come, or maybe we'll come at the wrong time. We, we were at the wrong time. And then they'll track the new eating times. So supposed say one day you have been eating every day at 8:00 AM I I ate at

Andrew Huberman (20m 48s):
8:00 AM Sorry, is that when you start your feeding window, when do you, when does your feeding window shut?

Dr. Satchin Panda (20m 54s):
6:00 PM So I ate for around 10 hours.

Andrew Huberman (20m 56s):
Okay. Yeah.

Dr. Satchin Panda (20m 58s):
And then one day, if I switch to 10:00 AM then what happens is a clock is thinking, well, the food didn't arrive at eight, but it arrived at 10. Maybe tomorrow the food will arrive somewhere between eight and 10, so we'll be ready around nine. I see. So then they, and next day if I come back and eat at eight o'clock, then I may eat, but my clock is not ready to digest that food. So that's why this idea is you have to be consistent to take advantage of this anticipatory activity of our clock in different systems to get the best out of

Andrew Huberman (21m 34s):
It. Is there evidence that those anticipatory systems in the, as they relate to digestion, help us better assimilate our food? I would imagine so. I mean, if you have the gastric juices that are gonna help digest the proteins, fats, and carbohydrates and already deployed at the time when you eat, I could imagine that food will be better utilized than if you don't. So in other words, what is the advantage of having these anticipatory signals in terms of potential health benefits?

Dr. Satchin Panda (22m 2s):
The anticipatory S signal is really important from even, even from working up. The reason why many people feel not ready completely when they wake up to an alarm clock because the alarm clock wakes you up, but your body is not prepared. So that sleepiness, after waking up to an alarm clock, is due to our body is not prepared for that. And then the best example is when the, when the daylight saving time changes, particularly when we have to wake up one hour early, what happens? People who have underlying heart condition when they're waking up, when the body is not ready or heart is not ready and all of patient sudden their heart has to start pumping little bit harder than there is chance of heart attack.

Dr. Satchin Panda (22m 54s):
And in fact, people have looked at hospital records and they find that on those days there is a sarp rise in heart attacks

Andrew Huberman (23m 3s):
And car accidents.

Dr. Satchin Panda (23m 4s):
Right. And car accidents too, because your brain is not coordinated. So you cannot make those fine decisions. So that's a great example of anticipatory activity. But coming back to digestion, one thing is, and this is something that many people might have experienced, there are many rhythms in our digestive system, and one of the rhythms is our, our intestine has this peristaltic function, so it kind of contracts and expands, and that moves food. Mo food doesn't move due to gravity. So it goes back and forth. And that peristaltic action actually slows down at night, few hours after our last meal.

Dr. Satchin Panda (23m 50s):
And so that's why when people eat late at night for example, then that food doesn't get digested because there is not enough digestive juice first thing and second, even if it gets digested in the store, market doesn't move properly. So then the next morning people get up and think, of course people consume some alcohol very often, and then they think that this is hangover. But those who don't consume alcohol, then they have the food hangover because it doesn't digest. So that's one extreme example where food at the wrong time can, so healthy food at the wrong time can be crap or junk.

Dr. Satchin Panda (24m 30s):
Yeah,

Andrew Huberman (24m 30s):
I've experienced that where if I've worked late or I couldn't eat dinner or something and then I get home, I always debate whether or not to try and sleep. Yeah. But if I'm too hungry, oftentimes it's challenging. And so for me, sometimes consuming something that at least seems easily digestible like yogurt or something in a liquid form is better for me than if I eat a meal. I've made the mistake of going to the refrigerator, being super hungry and eating a bunch of food at 10 or 11:00 PM and then falling asleep. And indeed the sleep, if I'm tired enough, can be quite deep. Yeah. But the next morning I feel just completely physically and and cognitively weighed down. So I think what you just described makes a lot of sense.

Andrew Huberman (25m 10s):
So is it, so if someone were to select a, a feeding window, regardless of whether or not it falls into classic intermittent fasting time, restrictive feeding, sounds like eating your first bite of food and eating your last bite of food at more or less the same time each day. Yeah. Has benefits. I have this question. You mentioned feeding versus eating, and I think it's actually not just a grammatical semantic issue. And here's why. We tend to think about when you take your first bite of food and then when you take your last bite of food. But of course, foods digest a different rates. Yeah. More fat in there is gonna digest, make carbohydrates, digest slower, et cetera.

Andrew Huberman (25m 52s):
I mean, there's all these adjustments to the glycemic index and so forth with foods in combination. I, is it better to think about not eating, but your fed state and blood sugar? So for instance, I often get asked on social media, does blank break a fast? So, and so I like to think about it scientifically like, okay, is does plain water break a fast? No. Does error break a fast? No. Does one grain of sugar of sucrose break a fast? Well, probably not. But does one teaspoon of sugar break a fast? Well, you could say yes, but transiently like, so, I mean, when we're talking about breaking a fast, are we talking about a rise in blood glucose or are there molecular signals downstream of, of a rise in blood glucose that cannot be reversed?

Andrew Huberman (26m 41s):
In other words, if I'm gonna eat my first meal every day at noon and I'm gonna eat my last bite of food at 8:00 PM and at 9:00 AM for whatever reason, I have coffee with one teaspoon of sugar in it, I suppose in the strictest sense, I've broken my fast. But maybe by, if I went for a hard run that morning, maybe by 9:30 AM I'm back in a fasted state. So what is the fasted state really, because when I'm eating at 8:00 PM just to give another example, I'm start fasting at 8 0 1 perhaps. Yeah. But I have, my blood glucose is elevated, so I'm not really fasted. No, I, I'm fed. Yeah. It's just that I'm not eating the verb. Right.

Andrew Huberman (27m 21s):
Okay. So, so again, I, I don't want to get overly detailed just for sake of getting detailed, but I think a lot of the confusion out there about what breaks a fast Yeah. Is related specifically to this issue. Yeah. Which is, if I eat a whole pizza after sitting around all day, it's very different than if I eat a whole pizza after having run a 26 mile marathon that day. Yeah. Very different. Yeah. Metabolically speaking. So how should people think about fasted versus fed? Can we be mildly fasted versus severe fasted? Can we be fed ish versus very fed? Anyway, I'll, I'll stop asking questions now, but cuz they all relate to the same theme.

Dr. Satchin Panda (28m 1s):
Yeah, no, these are very interesting question. And then unfortunately, as you can, as you have, you might have seen in life the most obvious questions are often unanswered because it's so hard to do these damn experiments. Because if you really want to address this in humans, you have to bring humans, put them in isolation. Just like you said, I can now imagine planning five or six different experiments. Each experiment should involve eight or 10 volunteers each gender, sex, and then do it. So it's difficult. So now let's go back to see how do we, let's dissect it in terms of say, indirect calorie.

Dr. Satchin Panda (28m 43s):
So for example, indirect ry is based on this principle that water, oxygen we breathe in and carbon dioxide we breathe out. If we can measure these too, then we can figure out whether our body in total we, we are not saying whether it's the liver, gut or fat or muscle in total, whether it's consuming glucose or fat as energy source. The idea is when we've fat, when we are without food for several hours, then ideally our body will tap onto glycogen first and then to a little bit of fat. And then when the body is mostly running on fat, then that ratio of CO2 to oxygen will come to 0.7.

Dr. Satchin Panda (29m 33s):
But what is interesting is we can do these experiments in mice. So we can go to mice and ask, okay, so what happens in mice? So in mice, mice are a little bit very different because mice are not simply little people. They're, the metabolism is different. They store relatively less glycogen than humans do in terms of total metabolism. So they overnight, within 12 to 14 hours, the r e r respiratory exchange ratio or this ratio will go from one when they're consuming mostly glucose or carbohydrate as energy source, it'll slow down, slowly go to 0.7, 0.75.

Dr. Satchin Panda (30m 14s):
It's after 12 to 14 hours, they're kind of mostly running on fat. So now as we give them food within 10 or 15 minutes, they're not actually consuming couple of grams of food. They're, they might have consumed say a hundred or 200 milligram of that child. So, which is less than say 5% of their food. But then the r e r will immediately begin to rise as if that small amount of food stopped that fat burning process and cranked up the carbohydrate burning process.

Andrew Huberman (30m 49s):
When you say fat burning process, you mean body fat stores being burned, right? Not dietary fat. Correct.

Dr. Satchin Panda (30m 55s):
Yeah. So it is all body fat means that, that's why I said we don't know where that fat is being burned because we are just measuring how, how much mice is bidding in and out. So for example, it can be from the skin. So subcutaneous use fat or belly fat

Andrew Huberman (31m 10s):
Or, but not dietary fat.

Dr. Satchin Panda (31m 13s):
No. By that time the dietary fat is already observed and digested and hopefully it's sitting in the liver or add tissue somewhere. But it's the fat body fat, yes. Thank you

Andrew Huberman (31m 22s):
For, yeah. Yeah. The reason I ask is that nowadays, I think more than half of the battles about nutrition that I see online Yeah. Relate to this issue where, I won't name names, but someone will come along and say, low carbohydrate diet allows you to burn more fat. And the more nuanced people out there will say, well that's true, but you're also talking about dietary fat. You know, the word fat can confuse people. I realize you're not doing that. You are certainly not one of the people guilty of doing this, but indeed you eat more fat, you'll burn more fat, but that doesn't mean you'll burn more body fat. In fact, I think the data say that under conditions of caloric restriction you'll actually burn less. I hope I don't, I'll probably get, I'll probably get pitchforks send through the mail toward me on, on that one, but, but I think that's true.

Andrew Huberman (32m 6s):
Whereas, you know, people who consume carbohydrate can still burn body fat even though the majority of the fuel they're burning is from carbohydrate. So yeah.

Dr. Satchin Panda (32m 14s):
So here in this case, for example, from mice, we know that as soon as they start eating the RAR goes up. Coming back to your question, what would be ideal for us to do the experiment would be, okay, so we'll go back to that and then give the mouse maybe a hundred milligram of food and mouse runs around in the case. And then we'll continue to measure to see how long it takes for the mouse to come back. And then, so that's one husband. So now let's say, let's stay on this and then I'll come back and talk about non caloric food and how whether that is considered fat.

AG1 (32m 50s):
I'd like to take a quick break and acknowledge one of our sponsors Athletic Greens, athletic Greens now called Ag One is a vitamin mineral probiotic drink that covers all of your foundational nutritional needs. I've been taking Athletic Greens since 2012, so I'm delighted that they're sponsoring the podcast. The reason I started taking Athletic Greens, and the reason I still take Athletic Greens once or usually twice a day, is that it gets to me the probiotics that I need for gut health. Our gut is very important. It's populated by gut microbiota that communicate with the brain, the immune system, and basically all the biological systems of our body to strongly impact our immediate and long-term health. And those probiotics and athletic greens are optimal and vital for microbiotic health. In addition, athletic Greens contains a number of adaptogens, vitamins and minerals that make sure that all of my foundational nutritional needs are met and it tastes great. If you'd like to try Athletic Greens, you can go to athletic greens.com/huberman and they'll give you five free travel packs that make it really easy to mix up athletic greens while you're on the road, in the car, on the plane, et cetera. And they'll give you a year's supply of vitamin D three K two. Again, that's athletic greens.com/huberman to get the five free travel packs and the year supply of vitamin D three K two.

Dr. Satchin Panda (34m 6s):
So there is a famous experiment that was published last year by Joe Takahashi's lab and it came out in science and that relates to calorie restriction. And we kind of started with this idea. We started discuss on that the rat experiments were done with calorie restriction and researchers gave reduced calorie conjunction by 20% or 30%, didn't get that food, the rats, and then subsequently mice. And they all lived longer. What is interesting is, and all those experiments, the researchers came and gave this boas of food at one time, whereas they a fed mice or rats, they had access to food all the time.

Dr. Satchin Panda (34m 51s):
So they're eating all the time. And then these rats were given 20% less. And what happens is this mice or rats, they're not going to take that less food, which is restaurant now and just eat a little bit of lunch and then snack after three hours or snack after three hours they go up all that food within two to three hours, maximum four hours food is gone. So

Andrew Huberman (35m 16s):
They're sort of on the OMAD diet, the one meal a day.

Dr. Satchin Panda (35m 19s):
Yeah. They're almost like in one meal a day, three to four hours food is gone. Or you can sit there on four hours eating or feeding and 20 hours fasting. So then the question became, well the benefit of calorie castration as we know, is it due to reduced calorie or time restricted feeling or timing? There is a timing component to it that they're eating all of that within three to four hours. And then there is a long fasting, and this is a difficult question to answer because now you have to ask these poor grad students or technicians to come and split that food into eight or 10 or 15 different small persons and then give them to mice in every two hours.

Dr. Satchin Panda (36m 7s):
So Joe Takahashi, who actually published the first paper in 2017 showing that most colors, and I mean he used the protocol that was used by Cal restriction field, it actually creates a condition of time restriction. So he showed that and then he went back and worked with engineers to come up with a smart kids where he could actually tell, he could program how much food is given to mice at what time of the day on night completely programmed. So then he took this, for example, supposedly the A mice, it's five grams of chow in a day and if you want to reduce calories by 20% and the CR mouse should get four grams of food and it divided this into nine or 10 meals and then give them in every 90 minutes.

Dr. Satchin Panda (37m 5s):
So in this case, they're eating small meals throughout their night, so there is no fasting. So you can say that, well this mouse actually is not getting into fasting because in every few hours is getting some food. And then he measured how long the mouse is going to live. And he used accountants. This is a very standard protocol. People count how many mice are dying on which day and then examined them to see whether they died because they, there was an accident or they actually, there was a natural cause. And then they calculate at the end what is the half life.

Dr. Satchin Panda (37m 47s):
So 50% survival because that's on an average, that's a good indicator because if there is an outlier that will live for long time, then that can skew. So what was interesting was the AdLit fed mice, of course they live certain number of days and then this calorie restricted mice that never got into super fasting, but kind of eating s snacking throughout day and night that also live 10% extra, 10% longer. So that means calorie restriction extended lifespan by 10%.

Andrew Huberman (38m 19s):
I've wondered about this because recently, you know, there's been, there were a bunch of news headlines about intermittent fasting and I, and frankly I was frustrated if you looked at one major news outlet, they would say time-restricted feeding affords no additional benefit beyond caloric restriction for weight loss. Yeah. Then an another popular press venue, let's call it that same study described as time restricted feeding doesn't work. Yeah. Right. And then another one, maybe someplace even more extreme, you know, time restricted feeding only beneficial because of caloric restriction or something like that.

Andrew Huberman (39m 2s):
So what you've essentially got are three different interpretations of the same data, all of which are, well, two of which are true, one of which is false in my opinion. Yeah. But what I think people take away from that is, oh, time restricted feeding isn't valuable. Which is not the case. It, I think for many people it's a convenient way to eat because at least for people like me, it's simpler to designate between portions of my day when I'm eating and portions of day, my day when I'm not eating, as opposed to eat portion control. Yeah. For other people, portion control can work, but all of that is related to either maintenance or loss of weight. None of it deals with the potential health benefits independent of weight loss.

Andrew Huberman (39m 42s):
Yeah.

Dr. Satchin Panda (39m 42s):
Right.

Andrew Huberman (39m 43s):
So, and so I, I think that if we can segment those out, obviously in humans it's hard to know if a given treatment or experiment is extending life because you don't really know how long people would live anyway. Yeah. Right. Whereas with mice you have some sense of Yeah. When the mortality was likely to occur. So what, what can we say about time-restricted feeding and longevity in terms of biomarkers or in terms of any other indication that people who start and stop their feeding window at a consistent time somewhere between eight and 12 hours per 24 hour cycle are tilting the scales towards living longer as opposed to living shorter.

Dr. Satchin Panda (40m 22s):
This example of this news that you mentioned is really interesting because that relates to Joe's Joe TA's study because I described that if you split calories and eat throughout the day throughout day and night, then the mice slaved 10% extra. But if you now give mouse the same calorie restricted diet and treat them during daytime, whether within 12 hours or two hours, then they might slip 10% extra

Andrew Huberman (40m 50s):
Beyond that. Yes. So 20% hours, 20%. So, okay, so let me make sure I understand so that, so that I make sure I understand. If you take a certain number of calories and you distribute them throughout the 24 hour cycle Yeah. It's caloric restriction, the mice will live 10% longer. Yeah. If you however restrict that to the active cycle Yeah. Of the, so for humans, the daytime Yeah. Then 20%, then they live 20% longer. 20% longer. So it's not just total caloric intake. Yeah. Meaning it's not just important to be sub maintenance and calories for sake of longevity. It also is important as to when in the 24 hour cycle, yeah.

Andrew Huberman (41m 30s):
You eat those calories. Do I have that right?

Dr. Satchin Panda (41m 32s):
So now that's still, the story is not over because this mice were fed during daytime and they're not supposed to

Andrew Huberman (41m 39s):
Eat. That's right. So for us it would be the equivalent of being on the night shift and only eating at night, but a sub caloric sub maintenance calorie diet, I guess is the right way to say it.

Dr. Satchin Panda (41m 48s):
But when he fed mice during nighttime when they're supposed to eat and they're seeing the, getting the same number of calories within 12 hours or two hours and the mice left 35% longer than the control,

Andrew Huberman (42m 3s):
35% longer. So scale to human lifespan, which you know, we don't know but, but a 35% longer would mean that, and again, no one knows, but humans now what is the average mortality in the United States? Somewhere around 80

Dr. Satchin Panda (42m 16s):
Was life ex. Yeah. So it's around 80, it used to be 80 now slow reduce little bit because of covid, but let's take 80.

Andrew Huberman (42m 23s):
Okay. So people are then now living somewhere between 25 and 35 years longer. Yes. Putting, I'm putting some error bars on

Dr. Satchin Panda (42m 28s):
There. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Amazing. So that was really profound. But now you pointed out biomarker and other stuff. So now if you look at any given time within that experiment, and actually Joe went back and had a separate cohort of mice very similar and so that he could take tissue samples and of course in this case you have to sacrifice the mouse. And he looked for, he did a lot of molecular analysis with non markers. For example, hemoglobin A1C equivalent or glucose control, cholesterol, all this stuff. He could not find anything that predicted the benefit of calorie restriction.

Dr. Satchin Panda (43m 13s):
So that means in this experiment, whatever we know so far the predictor of longevity, none of them could predict whether this CR only mouse, which at throughout the night that mouse is going to live less than the night fed mouse that was going to live 35, 20 5% extra.

Andrew Huberman (43m 35s):
Does that mean that there are biomarkers related to longevity that we just haven't discovered yet?

Dr. Satchin Panda (43m 39s):
Yeah, so that's exactly, so that means whatever we know so far about biomarkers, those he could not use to predict maybe there was a lot of noise. Maybe he wanted, he had to use more number of mice to get that because you know, biomarkers are not going to predict in every instance that there is some error. What is also very interesting is if you look at the body wet and body composition of all these mice, there is no difference in body wet and body composition

Andrew Huberman (44m 11s):
Across all these different groups because

Dr. Satchin Panda (44m 12s):
All these groups,

Andrew Huberman (44m 13s):
So it doesn't matter when they ate. Yeah. Provided they were sub sub calorie maintenance, calorie intake. Yeah. So less, fewer calories than is required to maintain their weight. Yeah. Didn't matter what pattern of eating, they were the same weight. Yeah. So that in many ways seems to mimic the human studies where they say, look, it doesn't really matter whether or not you use caloric restriction or, or you start your feeding window in the morning or start your feeding window in the evening or you or you portion control for sake of weight, cont weight loss

Dr. Satchin Panda (44m 41s):
Because we're taking a snapshot of that. And then another thing with the human study that we are referring to here, that in that human study, people were actually already eating within 10 hours window habitually when they selected these people to have them enroll in the study. So they were already eating for 10 hours and fasting for 14 hours. All participants had to reduce their calorie intake and they reduced by almost 25%. The CR group continued with 10 hours sitting window and the CR plus time-restricted group had to eat the same number of calories within eight hours.

Andrew Huberman (45m 22s):
So it's just a two hour difference,

Dr. Satchin Panda (45m 23s):
It's just a two hours difference.

Andrew Huberman (45m 25s):
Okay. So that people, I just wanna make sure people couldn't understand. So in the, in this human study, which is the one that I felt that the popular press venues all except one venue got either semi wrong or badly wrong in terms of their conclusion, that was my interpretation anyway was that either people came into the study eating basically in a 10 hour feeding window, which goes back to my first question, which is that most people are not eating in the middle of the night. Yeah, yeah. Or if they're on shift work and they are then they're sleeping during the day anyway. So they're eating in a 10 to 12 hour feeding window anyway. So you're saying they either did caloric restriction portion control within the 10 hour window or another group within the study eight sub maintenance calories. So caloric restriction CR as we're calling it the acronym cr, but restricted that to an eight hour feeding window.

Andrew Huberman (46m 10s):
Yeah. And they didn't see any difference in terms of weight loss. Yeah, weight loss. But it's not all that surprising, right? I mean if it's just a two hour difference.

Dr. Satchin Panda (46m 17s):
Yeah, exactly. So we have done that experiment in mice and we don't see difference in not only wet loss, many other markers. And I was telling you about this Joe's paper where I told you that he allowed this mice to eat within two hours or 12 hours sub caloric diet

Andrew Huberman (46m 37s):
Two or 12.

Dr. Satchin Panda (46m 38s):
Two or 12.

Andrew Huberman (46m 39s):
Yeah, that's dramatic.

Dr. Satchin Panda (46m 40s):
But still he did not see change in longevity even within those two. So that means when you do calorie restriction and then at least per mouse and you are within 12 hours window, that's, that is giving demise the best benefit, the optimum benefit and two, three or five or 12 per miles doesn't matter, at least for longevity.

Andrew Huberman (47m 6s):
Can we conclude for humans that whether or not a feeding window is four hours, six hours, eight hours or 12 doesn't matter provided the calories are are similar or same?

Dr. Satchin Panda (47m 17s):
Well I won't go to that extent because we don't know many of these particularly we don't know how this sort of eating window will affect both success because you know, we always think many of this mouse experiments even that I told you about, those are done only in Mel mice.

Andrew Huberman (47m 34s):
But that should be changing. Right. Because the nih, I know this cuz I'm on study section, which is just a bunch of people who record, who review grants is that every grant now has to include sex as a biological variable. It's hard to get away with, well rather I should say it the way it should be stated, which is people are required and should want to look at these phenomenon in male and female mice. Yes. Especially if there are differences.

Dr. Satchin Panda (48m 1s):
So in this case there are many I, there was also another paper in time restricted feeding that also came out a big paper showing that the thermogenesis was accounting for loss in fat mass in time restricted fat mice. That was also done only in male mice. So this is, we are paying attention to it. So we are now doing all of our studies in male and female and we do see big differences between male and female coming back to humans. What typically happens is when you're trying to do four hours or six hours of time, respirating people will inadvertently reduce their calorie intake.

Andrew Huberman (48m 40s):
Yeah. Just because of gut volume. I tried one meal per day and and I felt like I was eating so much at that one sitting. Yeah. That it led to a lot of gastric distress and I get tired after the meal and part of the reason I like to do time restricted feeding is I have more energy. Yeah. And certainly in the fasted state I feel more energized, especially if I'm ingesting a little caffeine or something like that.

Dr. Satchin Panda (49m 2s):
Yeah. So people will reduce energy intake and then some people who are more active, they can actually, unconsciously they may be spending more energy in their physical activity and basal metabolic grid, all of this combined than how much they're eating. And that can have a very adverse effect in long term because we know that this energy deficit, and in fact there is a scientific term for that. It's called red relative energy deficit in sports,

Andrew Huberman (49m 34s):
Relative energy deficit in sports. Okay. Yeah.

Dr. Satchin Panda (49m 37s):
It's because nearly 40% of athletes not the NFL guys, but you know, there are a lot of people who do track and field and nearly 40% of athletes actually experience this reds red as without knowing

Andrew Huberman (49m 53s):
Can male and female athletes both experience both reds. So it's reds, r e d s r e relative

Dr. Satchin Panda (49m 60s):
Energy.

Andrew Huberman (49m 60s):
Relative energy deficit in sports. In sports. Interesting. This is the first I've heard this acronym. We have a new acronym, folks, this is good to add to it a list of other acronyms but I so males and females can experience it. Yeah. So in females I've heard that reds can lead to em. So loss of Of mens of the menstrual cycle. Yeah.

Dr. Satchin Panda (50m 23s):
So that's so common that so prevalent that in fact many women, many female athletes, they take it for granted that yes, if they're more active then they'll lose their menstrual cycle. Which is, which may be common, but it's not normal or optimum per health and

Andrew Huberman (50m 41s):
Even if they don't want to get pregnant. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. We had an expert on female hormones come on and say the very same thing that regular cycling is a is very important of ovulatory menstrual cycle is is important to try and maintain. Yeah.

Dr. Satchin Panda (50m 56s):
So that's one. But then what is really concerning is it does affect bone health and in this state people actually over long period of time they lose bone mass and their bone also becomes more prone to injury, micro fracture and fractures. So again, it's a risk means if some people are trying to eat within very short time and they're physically active, that happens. And it also has impact on means. The reason why these women are losing menstrual cycle is the H P G axis is disrupted hypothalamus pituitary al axis and it starts in me off-stream at hypothalamus or pituitary.

Dr. Satchin Panda (51m 45s):
So that means their H p A axis, hypothalamus pituitary and adrenal access may also get disrupted. One of the symptoms of reds is also depression, anxiety, bipolar like symptoms. And we know that many, many athletes experience that. We think that well this, this may be just peer pressure that always trying to compete and we know there are, unfortunately there are a few athletes who just can't cope it and there are many attempted suicide or suicide. So this is a serious issue and there's also another new topic in the lab to come up with a mouse model of threats and then study it. But this is one risk why we should not reduce our eating interval to two such to one meal or very short time because it can have adverse side effect that we don't know now and maybe in future we'll figure out when we systematically study them.

Dr. Satchin Panda (52m 42s):
There are studies that are published sewing four hours and six hours time. Respiratory eating has benefits on weight loss. But those are on healthy individuals and they were in the study so they, you know the study team took a well already monitoring, they made sure that there was no certain weight loss or weight loss below some safety level. So those are very different from regular people who are, who maybe even normal weight even with within the healthy range. If they do then they can potentially. So that's why what we think is eight to 10 hours maybe the ideal spot to begin with.

Dr. Satchin Panda (53m 24s):
And once you are physically active and you are also spending a lot of energy in physical activity or sports, you can even go up to 12 hours because in mice we have done that experiment up to 12 hours. They do get a lot of benefits. Not all but So this is 12 hours of feeding, 12 hours of feeding, yeah, 12 hours of fasting. Yeah. In humans, again, nobody has done systematically 12 hours. But there was one study in Europe from Tin High collect lab and Tin High and I, we collaborate. So they used our, my Tian clock app. This is a research app we developed just to, this is mostly used in time restricted eating studies and he had nearly, I think he started with 200 Swiss participants.

Dr. Satchin Panda (54m 12s):
But then at the end he selected and took very small number of group people who were very meticulous about recording all their food and divided them into use well feeding whatever they wanted to eat whenever they wanted to eat. And they were given the advice of Swiss nutrition advice that's given to improve health and reduce blood glucose, almost like diabetes prevention program in the us. And then the other group was given advice to eat within 12 hours. This was very early on in timeless rating and we thought that the mice were getting some benefit, let's try whether 12 hours has any benefit.

Dr. Satchin Panda (54m 52s):
The bottom line is at the end of three months and six months, what he reported is both groups lost same amount of body weight and then there was not too much significant difference between groups, but both groups actually improve their health. So the bottom line is they Swiss nutritional advice that he was giving, which is the standard of care there, it achieved the same amount of weight loss as just giving people this advice that eat within 12 hours. So one way to look at it, look at the result is like this. And then he went to more extent and I actually looked at every single meal these people consume.

Dr. Satchin Panda (55m 35s):
So they're close to I think close to 60 or 70,000 meal records and pictures he went through and then classified them to say whether these are good quality food. So they call it the Nova classification one, two, three, four. One is the food that you can almost eat raw fruits, vegetables, yogurt and dairy products that you can almost without any preparation. And then second NOVA two is kind of home pre home cooked food that most people will prepare in few minutes and then three. And then fourth one is the food that you can never prepare at home.

Dr. Satchin Panda (56m 16s):
So for example biscuit or cookies that we usually purchase and few other things. And usually the NOVA four are unhealthy ultra processed food. So which we should not waiting. So they advise us to reduce NOVA four. And what I found was people who got all this advice to re improve their nutrition quality, they actually improved their nutrition quality. They reduced their NOVA four food and people who are in time the OR did in 12 hours, that did not change the nutrition quality. But what is interesting is they both got the same modest wet loss. So that begs the question that in the VU high will do this experiment again to combine nutrition advice with time restriction and maybe reduce the time to 10 hours and that might help.

Dr. Satchin Panda (57m 6s):
So 12 hours is something that I say anyone from five year old to a hundred year old can do. And if you are trying to maintain wet, that might be a good way and combine that with exercise, it'll be great

Andrew Huberman (57m 20s):
And you and people can more easily avoid reds. Yeah. In that way women. And for non-athletes or recreational exercises, it sounds like women, if they distribute their calories across 12 hours are less likely to lose their menstrual cycle.

Dr. Satchin Panda (57m 34s):
Yeah. So again, this is something that we have to look carefully. They have to be, because we do have the My security and clock app that many people download and self-monitor and the share the data for

Andrew Huberman (57m 44s):
Researchers and we will provide a link to that by the way, it's a great, it's a great tool. Yeah.

Dr. Satchin Panda (57m 48s):
But once in a while we do get this input from some women saying, oh I started doing your time and I am seeing all these problems. And then I ask them, okay, so what else are you doing? They typically improve the nutrition quality, so the eating only solid and few and they're trying to increase the fiber intake and it's really hard to eat so much of uncooked food because cooking helps to observe more nutrient. And then at the same time they're running five miles every day. And of course all of this combined like can lead to reds like symptom. So that's why 12 I think is a good point if you're combining physical exercise and better nutrition quality.

Dr. Satchin Panda (58m 31s):
Because in mice also we have seen that if mice are eating healthy food and they're eating within 10 to 12 hours, then they also live longer than mice that are eating healthy food. But distributing that calorie over a long period of time. And this is Rahar DE's finding from nih. He has systematically done this study with two different types of diet and in mice and he finds the same thing that even mice that are eating within 12 hours, they do live longer than mice that eat randomly even healthy food.

Andrew Huberman (59m 5s):
I I recall a recent study, I think it was either published in cell reports or cell reports medicine, forgive me for not remembering which, but both of course cell press journals, excellent journals which explored time-restricted feeding in the context of low carbohydrate or non low-carbohydrate diet. So it was low carbohydrate versus low carbohydrate end time-restricted. Yeah. So these all caloric matched. Yeah. Right between groups and then non low carbohydrate diet. So sort of more standard. I think it was somewhere in the neighborhood of 60% of calories from complex carbohydrates. And, and as I recall the, the greatest weight loss, remember same calories across groups, folks was achieved with low carbohydrate plus caloric restriction.

Andrew Huberman (59m 49s):
Yeah. And I wondered why all the popular news venues didn't cover that study, but that's why I'm bringing it up now. I thought, this is really interesting and, and I'm somebody who's cycled low carbohydrate diet. Yeah. Before I find it hard to sleep after about three or four days of being on a low starch Yeah. Diet. Just personally I, so I like to eat some starches. Yeah. Especially if exercising intensely or working intensely. That's just, yeah. A little editorial there that, but look, I know many people who do just feel better on a low carbohydrate diet. But yeah. What, what do you think of those data? Because it speaks to the idea that, okay, it's not just the total number of calories, it's not just the quality of those calories, it's the timing of those calories and maybe carbohydrate restriction in conjunction with time restricted feeding might be the best path for people who are looking to lose weight.

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 0m 40s):
No, I, I totally agree that when it comes to nutrition quality, quantity, and timing, all these three matter, nearly 40% of people who maintain healthy body wet because 60% are overweight and obese, 40% are maintaining healthy body wet. And out of those 40%, I would say are nearly majority of them are very aware about how much they're, and what quality of food

Andrew Huberman (1h 1m 4s):
They're eating. Ah. So you're really an optimist. You're looking at the 40% of the glass that's, or should we say not full? Yeah, that was a pun intended. But the No, that's a very interesting way of looking at, rather than saying, you know, why are 60% of Americans obese saying why are 40% not obese? Yeah, that's a very interesting way to look at it.

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 1m 24s):
Yeah. I mean, subconsciously we're always making that decision means I know means I'm sure that you're not going and eating cheeseburger every day because you want to improve. Yeah,

Andrew Huberman (1h 1m 35s):
No, yeah, exactly. I wouldn't feel good. Yeah. Yeah. I enjoy a cheeseburger now and again, but I, no, not, certainly not this stage or any stage of my life. I think that, I think people, I actually think the pandemic had a lot to do with this. I think that people started to take a look at what they were doing to support or not support their health generally. Yeah. I know people gained a lot of weight during the pandemic. Other people got really into fitness. I've seen some colleagues, you've always maintained, you've always been in good shape. Actually it's the first time I've seen you in a while. You've seem to have aged backwards. So you are a poster for your own ideas and hypotheses. Yeah. About timer restrictive feeding.

Andrew Huberman (1h 2m 15s):
But, but I, I noticed that during the pandemic, a number of people emerged from the pandemic in better shape. Yeah. Other people in much worse shape. It seemed like there was a, it was like a bimodal distribution there. Yeah. So yeah, I get the sense that starting and stopping eating at more or less the same time each day. Even if caloric restriction is not the main focus. Yeah. Has additional benefits. Can we talk about some of those benefits as they relate to the other things that impact health? So for instance, if you're starting and stopping eating at more or less the same times each day, are you sleeping better? Are you getting more predictable shifts in alertness and sleepiness?

Andrew Huberman (1h 2m 58s):
Like can you predict when you'll feel good enough to exercise? Yeah, maybe we could talk about that because you of course are well known for time restricted feeding and the science around that, but also other things as well, not the least of which is circadian biology generally. Yeah. So I always think of the main timekeepers for our system being feeding light activity. Yeah. And social connection. Did I miss maybe temp and temperature? Yeah. Yeah. So how do these combine with one another and using timing that we begin and stop feeding as kind of an anchor point. Can we explore that a little bit?

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 3m 30s):
Yeah. So you know, we got into this beginning and end and then we, you asked for the calorie how much calorie will break. The first one thing that I want the listeners and viewers to bring back to this timing of when we, when we are breaking the fast, because we equate health with wet body wet and that's when we are talking about nutrition quality and quantity because both of them have impact. So now let's think about mental health. Cuz a lot of people do struggle with mental health. They have anxiety or depression.

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 4m 12s):
And also sar, gut health because there are a lot of people who also have acid reflux or heartburn. And we know that acid reflux or heartburn can be exacerbated by caffeine intake in empty stomach. Those who have acid reflux or heartburn, they're prone to that. Then having black coffee in the morning before any food can offset their stomach. So that's why in those cases it's very clearly that caffeine for them becomes the trigger and that something the food is supposed to come and then the stomach is not seeing the food. So it's overreacting producing excess acid and that comes up to the esophagus and that's what they're experiencing.

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 4m 59s):
So if people have that kind of condition, then maybe they should consider when they drink their first coffee is breaking their overall fast or kind of putting them, putting their health at risk for acid reflux. The other thing is people who have anxiety, panic attack, we know that caffeine can judge you off.

Andrew Huberman (1h 5m 21s):
So especially on an empty stomach.

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 5m 23s):
Especially on an empty stomach. So for them, again, caffeine can be a trigger. So that's why I want to kind of differentiate that there is this mental health and other aspects of health. And these are two clear examples where anxiety, panic, attack related to brain health or acid reflux related to our gut health in those cases when we consume that caffeine in the morning can affect. So

Andrew Huberman (1h 5m 53s):
Do you avoid caffeine in the morning?

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 5m 56s):
No, actually, here is the interesting history about caffeine, and this is something I did not know and I was once invited to this history of nighttime activity and maybe we can take a little bit of detour and talk about nighttime activity because that fascinates me as a circadian biologist. Cuz over the last 200,000 years means we assume that humans homo sapiens evolved 200,000 years ago. So we have been, as a species, we have been living on this planet for 200,000 years. And only in the last you can say couple of thousand or 5,000 years when we came to control fire, or maybe you can even go back to a hundred thousand years, there is some debate.

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 6m 44s):
So then the question is, well, when we control fire and we light it up the fire and we could light up whenever we want it, we can add fuel and we can stop the fire when we don't want it. That's the key ability in humans that differentiates them from all the other species. No other species, we can always say yes, there are signs of this intelligent decision making. For example, we know many crops can make decisions, many, many animals, they kind of figure out strategize how to get food.

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 7m 24s):
But controlled use of fire is something very specific to human. And when we started controlling fire, fire did not essentially extend the day because fire created a evening that was very different from what people did during the day. And what people used to do during the day, they walked a lot means gathering food was almost everything that we did. And so in the evening after the, after the after we brought food mostly tubers or maybe lentils to cook or once in a while, animals so that we can, we could barbecue.

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 8m 7s):
All of these things happened around fire. And fire was so expensive that it was mostly communal fire. So if you go back to for example, Maasai and all these ancest, sorry, populations that have no access to electricity and are still living kind of that historical life fire is a communal event. And they sat around the cooked food and then what happened, they did not talk about work, they talked about culture, they talk, the sang, the danced, they strategize. That's how politics started, philosophy started, science started all of these things that are very unique to human civilization started around fireside chat.

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 8m 54s):
So, and that way, if we think about it, we are still doing fireside chat. The only thing is we have the microwave and the television, our social media,

Andrew Huberman (1h 9m 2s):
And now we chat with our thumbs,

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 9m 4s):
Right? So it's still, so we are hooked to that evening activity because that's when we are completely free from the pressure of the work and we want to express ourselves. That's our independent kind. So that's why most people find it very difficult to do time, ret and stop eating at six o'clock because it's ingrain in our, in our even DNA that we want to eat and socialize in the evening. So now let's fast forward and see what is the role of coffee in this. And if you look at coffee con jobson, particularly cafe where people can come and have little bit of coffee and socialize, it also started as a evening activity.

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 9m 51s):
And this is in, now we can go back to Istanbul because that's one place where coffee cafes started in mid 16th century. So we are talking about 1540 to 1570. And that's when, I'm sorry, I'm forgetting the name of historians who, who actually invited me and Okay. His name Ismal Kadar. And I must be butchering the name, but I'll try,

Andrew Huberman (1h 10m 22s):
We'll provide the spelling. And the wonderful thing about social media is somebody will tell us on YouTube the proper pronunciation. So this is a great opportunity. If you know the proper pronunciation, please put it in the comments on YouTube. Yeah,

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 10m 33s):
I actually, I'm even checking right now in my n note library. It's not picking up that.

Andrew Huberman (1h 10m 38s):
That's right. We we'll provide a link. Yeah,

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 10m 40s):
We'll provide a link. So what happened was, so coffee was introduced and people came and drank coffee and talked about politics

Andrew Huberman (1h 10m 49s):
At night,

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 10m 50s):
At night, at evening. And it actually started with, with Sufi branch of Islam because they are the ones who consumed coffee in the evening. And this is the branch of Islam where they actually sing and dance and all that happened in the evening. So singing, dancing by the Sufi and then here in Istanbul people started congregating and having talk about politics. But then around the same time, some, you know, in Turkey there was a good sizable number of Muslims who have to do five prayers a day, number of prayers at set time.

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 11m 33s):
The first prayer is very early in the morning. And then they figured out that if they wake up and immediately have coffee, then they can stay awake for the first prayer. And in that way they felt pretty good and they woke up. So that's how it started as a morning drink to stay awake and kind of get, get on with the day. But what happened was, I don't know whether you have ever tried Turkeys coffee. It's very thick.

Andrew Huberman (1h 12m 0s):
Yeah. A few years ago, right before the pandemic 2019 I traveled to Turkey is, first of all, the food is amazing. The coffee is indeed very, very thick. Yeah. And I have a pretty high caffeine tolerance Yeah. From drinking so much coffee and y over the years and still do I really enjoy it. But yeah, it's, it's very intense. And so what you're saying is that coffee intake started as a way to extend into the night. Yeah. The ability to extend into the night at all was because of the ability to harness fire. And then coffees stimulatory properties were leveraged toward mourning, which is essentially like the way I think about it.

Andrew Huberman (1h 12m 42s):
We did an episode on caffeine and some someone else, Michael Pollen not, I described it this way, that you're sort of taking a loan out on your energy bank account. Yeah. With coffee, you're suppressing the adenosine system, adenosine mix, you're sleepy, but that adenosine system will kick in later. So you're, you're it's a credit card of sorts Yeah. With an interest. Right, right. And the interest being an energetic lag that you're going to experience in the afternoon. Yeah.

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 13m 6s):
But what happened was with the strong coffee that gave heartburn on acid, acid reflux to a lot of people. So then they started eating something with coffee and that's how the culture of breakfast started in Turkey.

Andrew Huberman (1h 13m 22s):
Ah. So coffee actually led to the development of breakfast, not the other way around. And

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 13m 27s):
That, yeah. So

Andrew Huberman (1h 13m 28s):
It, that's very heartening. No, again, no pun intended for the, the caffeine lovers among us, which I count myself one of those.

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 13m 38s):
Yeah. So essentially the food before coffee became breakfast. So you kind of give something to your, to your stomach. So it's busy digesting that and then when the coffee comes in, it's not reacting to coffee and creating acid acid reflux.

Andrew Huberman (1h 13m 53s):
So it wasn't as fascinating. So it wasn't that breakfast is necessary on its own, it was essentially a buffer against the gastric distress caused by caffeine

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 14m 5s):
Intake, at least in that culture when in that context we cannot say that whether the same thing happened and all over the world where coffee is not consumed, but still people eat something in the morning.

Andrew Huberman (1h 14m 15s):
You said you start your first meal of the day at around eight. What time do you wake up?

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 14m 21s):
I wake up around six. Okay.

Andrew Huberman (1h 14m 22s):
I started at six. What time do you have your first caffeine?

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 14m 25s):
No, actually I have, so that's why I brought up this story because I have coffee after my

Andrew Huberman (1h 14m 30s):
Breakfast. Fantastic. I'm a big proponent of delaying caffeine intake for a few hours after waking for other reasons that my listeners have heard me talk about endlessly. So I won't bother with that now. But I think allowing, just suffice to say that allowing some of the natural waking up signals to occur. Yeah. And using light to kind of clear away in adenosine to further extend an activity is better than using a stimulant. But until a few hours later, this is fascinating because I've never thought about the link between extension into the night socialization or socializing rather feeding and caffeine.

Inside Tracker (1h 15m 7s):
I'd like to take a brief break and thank our sponsor Inside Tracker. Inside Tracker is a personalized nutrition platform that analyzes data from your blood and DNA to help you better understand your body and help you reach your health goals. I've long been a believer in getting regular blood work done for the simple reason that many of the factors that impact your immediate and long-term health can only be analyzed from a quality blood test. The problem with a lot of blood and DNA tests out there, however, is that you get data back about metabolic factors, lipids and hormones and so forth, but you don't know what to do with those data. Inside Tracker solves that problem and makes it very easy for you to understand what sorts of nutritional, behavioral, maybe even supplementation based interventions you might want to take on in order to adjust the numbers of those metabolic factors, hormones, lipids, and other things that impact your immediate and long-term health. To bring those numbers into the ranges that are appropriate and indeed optimal for you. If you'd like to try inside tracker, go to inside tracker.com/huberman. They have a special promotion right now through PI Day March 14th, where you can get 31% off their ultimate plan. This is their biggest promotion of the year. Again, if you go to inside tracker.com/huberman, you can get 31% off their ultimate plan.

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 16m 21s):
Now, actually I'm kind of speaking what many other researchers have found and this, this particularly, this fireside chat, I'm forgetting again the name of the scientist I think is from University of Washington, Seattle. She went to Africa and kind of recorded what people are talking. Of course she could not understand what they were talking

Andrew Huberman (1h 16m 43s):
Twitter and whether or not Tesla's talk is going up. Of course. No, just, just kidding folks.

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 16m 49s):
And then came back and tried to translate and then figured out that exactly what they're talking during daytime and in the evening were very different. So, so so

Andrew Huberman (1h 16m 59s):
What are they talking about at night?

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 17m 0s):
Do you, so exactly, so this is like, they're talking about matchmaking and talking about politics and strategizing to gather food or, or even singing and dancing. So this is, if you think, if we think about it, how we manage sunset to our bedtime, what we do between sunset and bedtime affects most of our health.

Andrew Huberman (1h 17m 31s):
I'm gonna think about that for a moment. I totally agree. And by the way, I'm a huge believer and, and I'm in living in great hope for the idea that right now I do think that scientists understand a lot more about the different stages of sleep, slow wave sleep, REM sleep, et cetera, than we do active waking states. Like we talk about being focused or being alert, but that's not, those aren't scientific terms as we know. But I do believe, and I've noticed a distinct difference between the first eight hours of the day in terms of cognition. And we know that the catecholamines are at much higher levels plus cortisol, dopamine, cortisol, epinephrine, all of that is really at much higher levels than in the later evening.

Andrew Huberman (1h 18m 13s):
And so they, this evening time it al, it's certainly in the context of mental health. We know that morning and evening we are basically different creatures. Yeah, yeah. Completely

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 18m 22s):
Creature. Yeah. So that's why I, I think in the evening, if you think about it again, this is again another set of research from my good friend Hario who

Andrew Huberman (1h 18m 35s):
Dig Laia. Yeah. Oh yeah, yeah. I'm a big fan of Hario another, he's a fellow Argentine. So occasionally we riff about things related to that. But he's a wonderful biologist. Are you guys collaborating? Yeah.

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 18m 46s):
Okay. He's, he is kind of, I say he is very humble and keeps a low profile, but he does amazing, amazing research. Totally agree. And he does research that we want to know, but nobody is ready to do it because field research is very difficult to go to the wilderness or go to the places where there is no electricity and then record when these people are eating, sleeping, or in this case activity, exposure to light. That's what Toia has done. And he puts this active watch, which is kind of a modern activity tracker, but it's a little bit more refined because it also collects light information.

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 19m 30s):
What he found was most of these Argentinian tos who have no access to electricity, they consistently go to bed somewhere between three to three and a half hours after sunset. So this is very important because we always think that our ancestors, when they didn't have electricity, as soon as the sun went down, they just went to sleep. No, the fire extended their evening. So they were staying awake for three to four hours, kind of, you know, decompressing themselves that we say and then doing all these activities, cooking, sharing meals, and then they would go to sleep. And if you look at the sleep onset variability, it was very small.

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 20m 12s):
Like they're going to bed almost within 15 to 30 minutes, standard deviation

Andrew Huberman (1h 20m 17s):
Standard. So no night owls versus morning people. This exactly.

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 20m 20s):
So we'll get

Andrew Huberman (1h 20m 21s):
To that. No, no. This, this the, I get attacked by, for many reasons that just goes with the, the business I'm in of being public facing these days. But every time I talk about viewing sunrise or low angle sunlight, you know, getting some sunlight early that someone says, well, I'm a night owl. And they just in, it's almost like a, a protest of trying to protect identity. Yeah, yeah. It's become this ideological, i i i identity related thing. I'm a night owl, I'm a morning person and I'm not, but you're telling me that in these cultures where there is electricity but there is fire, people are going to sleep within all of them within about 15 minutes of one another. Yeah. So there is no such thing as a night owl or a morning person in the context,

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 21m 1s):
Yes. Raio actually asked him pointedly because, and then he said no, he, he has not seen and he has dragged hundreds of people. And if we ask, there are many, many sleep researchers, at least the public facing sleep physicians or experts, they'll say, yeah, we can say one third of people are night, one third of morning and, and one third are in between. But

Andrew Huberman (1h 21m 26s):
Yeah, they call 'em like bears wolfs and you know, and I'm not being disparaging of that idea. I think people really do feel as, as if they orient towards one pattern or another.

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 21m 35s):
When I was an undergrad student, I never went to bed before midnight and actually midnight was my going to bedtime exactly like 1145, I'll try to get ready to hit bed. And then by 12 I'm in bed and I used to get up at 6, 6 15.

Andrew Huberman (1h 21m 50s):
That's still a, that's a pretty short

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 21m 52s):
Sleep with an alarm of course. And but then daytime I used to take 45 minutes to one hour nap and there was regular, like even if whenever I got time, of course in college, you know, you don't have the whole day, unlike in high school you don't have opportunity to nap, but in college you

Andrew Huberman (1h 22m 11s):
Can, I might have been one of those kids with his hoodie on, napping on the desk, but they come around and they wake you

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 22m 15s):
Up. Yeah. But in, in this case, just come back to the dorm and after lunch usually I used to take nap. So then in grad school, I remember I rarely went to bed before 2:00 AM and I could have clearly said that I'm a night owl. And actually I was at night o I was very comfortable staying off so late, I was very productive doing experiments, writing all this manuscripts mostly. And, but then afterwards when I looked back in, when I had, when we had our daughter, then things started changing because you have to put the baby to sleep and then after the baby sleeps, it's almost when you have a baby, your life revolves around the baby.

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 23m 9s):
So then we had to dim down the light. There is no caffeine and alcohol drinking or any other things after the baby sleeps because we cannot do too much noise and all that. So then I realized that no, I'm actually not a night owl. And I became kind of more normal because I could go to sleep between 10 and 11. And that's how I thought, well maybe this was very unique to me. But what is interesting is I have another colleague, good friend Ken Wright Jr.

Andrew Huberman (1h 23m 44s):
Colorado

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 23m 44s):
At Colorado. Yeah. And he also had grad students and and postdocs like me who strongly believed that they were night os just like everybody else. And he took, Ken took the whole love for camping and when they were camping, of course there is less light and lot of physical activity hiking during the day and they all went to bed between nine and 10:30 PM

Andrew Huberman (1h 24m 11s):
I love that study. Yeah. What satin just described was a study. I think there were two studies. There were two. Yeah. And what's interesting as I recall is that after going camping for a weekend where people wake with the more or less with the sunrise. Yeah. And go to sleep a few hours after sunset. Yeah. Their melatonin rhythms and cortisol rhythms and sleep wake rhythms persisted on that schedule for several weeks. Yeah. Despite returning Yeah. To environments where there was a lot of artificial lighting, which I find amazing that yeah, just a weekend of consistent rising and going to bed with the sunrise and sunset. Yeah. More or less allowed a, a reset that was very long lasting.

Andrew Huberman (1h 24m 55s):
Yeah.

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 24m 57s):
So actually even ink study, he found that almost all the tova, they wake up around sunrise time and it's amazing when I look at the standard division, it's like so tight.

Andrew Huberman (1h 25m 9s):
So take that night owl, so-called night owls. I also, in graduate school, I would work until 2:00 AM I loved it. I would blast music in the lab. Everyone was at home pretty much, not everyone, but there were the, the night crew. And then I'd get in sometime around get up or sometime around 9 30 10 and then get in around 11. And it was no problem because I was going to stay so very late. And then over time I noticed I've become more locked to a standard schedule. So I think what we're saying is that the clock can, our internal clocks can shift. Yeah. But this idea that we are genetically biased towards one schedule or another may need revisiting. That's what, that's the conclusion I'm taking from this

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 25m 46s):
Couple of aspects. One is, you know, some people are genetically so pre-programmed because the other cliff side is what is called technically familial advancedly syndrome. So these people, you can give them caffeine or whatever, whatever, but they will fall asleep say at eight o'clock. They cannot stay awake till nine or 10. And since it's a very strong phenotype in sleep and circadian rhythm field, they're very well studied. So in fact, Louis Petta and fu, they were the first one to track one family like this. And then they figured out there was a mutation in one of the clock gins period two, that clock gin and that mutation allowed the clock to run in a way that these people went to bed very

Andrew Huberman (1h 26m 37s):
Early. I guess historically given these fireside chats that those people were probably not contributing much to the political discussion, whatever that was decided after they went to sleep is what they woke up into. That reminds me because as you were describing the difference between nighttime discussions versus morning discussions, is there any theme to what is discussed in the morning versus in the nighttime? Or are people just sipping their eating and sipping their caffeine and just waking up? But is, is there, are there any ideas about what morning discussions really consist of morning

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 27m 8s):
Discussions or daytime discussions are mostly about work and like hunting, gathering, farming, all that stuff. And even these days that's what we do. We, you know, you go to, I go to work and it's mostly one meeting after another and we are talking about how means if you're in different committees then you're solving problems or your students come with questions, you have your TA or the office hours. All these things work related. We are not talking, I mean serious philosophy of, unless you are in a philosophy department and you're talking or political science and also we are not singing and dancing.

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 27m 48s):
So that's why the evening activity even these days are very different. And typically the evening activities are where we express ourselves. We express who we are, we feel like we are free. And you know, you and I, we have this academic intellectual freedom. We can talk about our work just like we are talking now, there are a lot of people who work for, even in tech industry, they may be working for Google and all these big tech companies, they cannot talk about their work to anybody else.

Andrew Huberman (1h 28m 21s):
It's all secret. It's

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 28m 22s):
All secret. So just imagine they're staying, so they're spending more than half of their wake up time at work thinking and doing work. But they cannot talk about that work even sometimes to their own family members. So then what happens for them, a lot of people also do the same thing. Like the person who is going and baking in a restaurant or cooking or the person who is taking trust and driving

Andrew Huberman (1h 28m 53s):
Or nurses and doctors, nurses can't talk about their patients. There's

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 28m 56s):
Confidentiality.

Andrew Huberman (1h 28m 57s):
Yeah.

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 28m 57s):
Yeah. And some people just don't want to talk about it. It's so stressful. They don't want to bring, bring that stress home. So that's why I always say that from sunset, until we go to bed during that time, we try to find time for ourselves. People say this is me time, the me time is essentially we want to truly express who we are or we want to entertain ourselves. Because on the fireside chat, it's not that everybody was a performer, there are also some audience. So we always switch our roles. Sometimes we are performing and sometimes we are observing. So that's what happens with me time.

Andrew Huberman (1h 29m 36s):
So I love this. So maybe social media time should be restricted to just maybe a small portion of that evening time. Cuz I would hope that people would also interact socially. Yeah. Within in the real

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 29m 46s):
Or maybe in a constructive way. Or maybe you use that for connect with your family members whom you love or you can have some productive discussion or something. So it's, it's kind of interesting.

Andrew Huberman (1h 29m 57s):
It, I think it's extremely interesting because I think again this, this conversation about time restricted feeding is really a conversation about

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 30m 4s):
Security and

Andrew Huberman (1h 30m 5s):
Rhythms and sleep wake activity and human evolution. Right? Yeah.

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 30m 8s):
So that's why, let's go back to this night owl because we, we kind of made a comment that maybe it's not genetic, but this is where I'm still wrapping my head around because you know, these days there's some GWA studies where they're trying to look at night os to see whether there are some genetic Lincolns. And you know, sometimes we always think, yeah, if you take half a million people, of course you'll find some that are. But going back to this idea that are some people more sensitive to light so that it's likely that the same level of light, even in the same household may make some people stay awake late into the night, whereas other people are more resistant to light so that they can go to bed early.

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 30m 59s):
And since light has become so prevalent these days and this toba story that we are talking about, are people going on camping? There is, we have removed that light. So there is some evidence that people's light sensitivity, particularly the I P R GC of this intrinsically photosensitive retinal ganglion cell or the simple speakers, the blue light sensors in our eyes, there seems to be even one log unit change in sensitivity as measured by pupil constriction.

Andrew Huberman (1h 31m 34s):
So for some people, a small amount of artificial light at night could really shift their circadian clock. Yeah. Wake them up essentially.

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 31m 41s):
Yeah. And then for some it may

Andrew Huberman (1h 31m 43s):
Not. Yeah, I'm very sensitive to light at night. Yeah. Exquisitely sensitive to it.

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 31m 48s):
Oh, so then you are like a teenager.

Andrew Huberman (1h 31m 50s):
Yes. In many ways I've been told this thank you. I think I have actually switched to using a red nightlight, but I should be clear, not a fancy high-cost red light for sake of any kind of infrared simulation, but a red party light type light. Yeah. And I find that that was based on reading one study that we covered in an episode on jet lag and shift work, which was that it seems to reduce the cortisol releasing properties of light at night to use redshifted light. Yeah. So I just use a red light bulb. I actually travel with one, if I go to an Airbnb or a hotel and I switch to red light and I find that I fall asleep and stay asleep throughout the night. Yeah. Much more consistently.

Andrew Huberman (1h 32m 30s):
Yeah. Especially in when I'm in new environments, which always makes a disruptive Yeah. To sleep. It's made an enormous difference in the depth and duration of my sleep. And because oftentimes hotel lights, you know, in the bathroom you'll turn them on. You just, you're just getting beamed. And you're right, some people don't seem to to be bothered by that. I I I really struggle with that.

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 32m 52s):
Yeah, yeah. And in fact in Tina's right after puberty, there seems to be, I think that's when the teenagers become more sensitive, sensitive to light. And it's very, it's well known that the teenagers, boys and girls, they tend to stay awake late into the night and they can stay up to 12, mid past midnight. Although they can stay up that late, that doesn't mean that their sleep schedule is reduced. Their body still needs the same amount of sleep as other teenagers. So that's why they are more likely not to wake up at six 30 or seven when we expect them to wake up and go to school.

Andrew Huberman (1h 33m 33s):
I have a question and I ask every circadian related biologist, I can come into contact with this and no one has been able to give me an answer one way or the other, but I grew up hearing that every hour of sleep before midnight was of more value or potency than the hours after midnight. And indeed I find that if I go to sleep at nine 30 or 10:00 PM I can wake up at three or 4:00 AM feeling pretty fantastic and ready to lean into the day. But if I get the equivalent number of hours of sleep starting at midnight, I feel like complete garbage when I wake up after five, six hours. So is there any truth to the idea that going to sleep within three hours of sunset is somehow better for our circadian timing mechanisms?

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 34m 20s):
Well there are a few things. One, you said that you are very sensitive to light, so I assume that you also have very bright light in the evening

Andrew Huberman (1h 34m 27s):
As best I can.

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 34m 27s):
Yeah, as best as you could, can. And then what is happening is with a sense of that bright light, your melatonin levels begin to rise. So you are prepared for sleep. Of course this is something that we cannot measure because measuring melatonin in every one hour or 30 minutes is very difficult and there is no consumer-facing product yet. So it's likely that your, your body is preparing very well under this dim light to fall asleep. And when you are, are trying to stay awake and go sleep at midnight, then maybe from midnight for the first three or four hours you are sleeping well. But then after that your melatonin level might be beginning to fall and it's not only melatonin, your core body temperature and then your heart rate and everything is changing to make you awake, but the sleep debt that you have accumulated is pushing you to be in bed.

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 35m 23s):
So there is this tension between the circadian aspect and your sleep debt. And unfortunately you cannot have good night of restorative sleep for the second half of the sleep because of the

Andrew Huberman (1h 35m 37s):
Tenon. That makes good sense.

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 35m 38s):
Yeah. So that's why, you know, you are not the only one means there are many people who, who experience that. And in fact a lot of people think that, well this may be the way I sleep, maybe I'm not, I am not designed to sleep restoratively until, you know, I sleep one day just like the camping trip.

Andrew Huberman (1h 36m 0s):
And then they realize what it feels like to become

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 36m 3s):
What you're missing.

Andrew Huberman (1h 36m 3s):
Yeah, absolutely. I wanna make sure that we talk about the other aspect of fire, which is you had a paper that came out recently, very interesting paper, studying firefighters and time restricted feeding and firefighters. Would you share with us the, the general contour, maybe even some of the specifics of, of that study? Because I think it's very interesting for sh for sake of shift workers but for everybody really to understand the, these results.

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 36m 27s):
Yeah, so let's go back to shift workers because this also relates to all of us because I always say that each of us is a shift worker has lived the life of a shift worker and we have experienced how terrible difficult it is. And now let's start with what is the definition of a shift worker shifted work like lifestyle? There is no universal definition unfortunately, but there are many European countries and particularly if you go to international level organization then you'll find some references. Different European countries have slightly different definition, which essentially points to if you stay awake for two or more hours during your habitual sleep time.

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 37m 14s):
And when they say habitual sleep time, they assume that we are just, like you said, we are kind of programmed to sleep somewhere between say 10:00 PM and then stay in bed and kind of wake up after 5:00 AM. So the idea is if you stay, if you're staying awake for two or more hours between 10:00 PM and 5:00 AM and you are in guest in some activity, whether it's physical activity or intellectual activity, we're not lying in bed and wondering, worrying about something but actually working. So that defines, that's defined as shift work and you don't have to do it every single day.

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 37m 54s):
Even if you do it once a week for 50 weeks, then that itself is enough to disrupt your physiology and metabolism behavior. Brain function like a shift worker. The reason is, as you discussed, when you change our external timing queue, so in this case when you travel jet lag or or traveling across three days, three hours of jet lag will take three days to reset. Similarly, if you're staying awake for two hours extra or if you're waking up two hours before your habitual wake up time, then we just don't get wake up and then be en guested in some activity in the dark.

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 38m 40s):
Most of us and mince, unless you are wearing a infrared goggles, we turn on light and light research our clock. So in that way, every time we stay up for two or more hours, even for one night, then for the next two nights our clock is kind of trying to catch up. So in that way for three days the day of the disruption and then two days following the disruption, our clock is trying to catch up with the outside time. So our clock, our body is not on time without clock. So that means almost for half of the week or half of the year, our clock is trying to catch up.

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 39m 21s):
So that's the definition of shift work. So now let's come back to department of level statistics. US government, they have not been tracking what percentage of people are doing shifted work clearly because there are many difficulties in tracking two. But it's generally accepted that one in five working adults is a card carrying shift worker card carrying shift workers means they are nurses, doctors, firefighters and bakers, truck drivers and many in the service industry.

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 40m 3s):
So that's one in five. So 20% of working adults. Then if we think about all the college students, just like I was doing and you must have done, they're also grant

Andrew Huberman (1h 40m 17s):
Deadlines, grant

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 40m 19s):
Deadlines, grant deadlines. Then we are also experiencing experiencing the lifestyle of a ship worker because we are delaying sleep. Even if you're delaying sleep by two hours for most of the cholesterols for five days and then the weekend you're trying to catch up, that's kind of a circadian disruption going on. Then you take 1.5 or 1.6 million new moms in the US every year. So when the child is born and that mother is a shift worker and actually that mother is worse than a shift worker because you know, you don't know what time of the night the baby will wake up and how many times and there is no weekend in motherhood.

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 41m 1s):
So they're also living the life of a ship workers. We don't count many food delivery and Uber drivers, Lyft drivers are ship workers, but they, many of them we know that they live. So in that way, within the actual number of people who are experiencing the life of a ship worker is somewhere around 50% of the adults population at any given time. So that's why it's also another point that you might have heard from people. They'll say, oh, I cannot do time because my schedule is messed up or I work in a different way.

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 41m 41s):
And that comes into play. So that's why we thought, okay, so we should try something on shift worker. Another point is, although one in five people are shift workers, they carry proportionate heavier burden of disease because almost all is related disease that we can think of. Whether it's high blood pressure, usually high blood pressure starts in forties or fifties, high cholesterol, gastrointestinal problem in digestion, chronic inflammation of the colon, and then even colon cancer in many cases. And then of course diabetes.

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 42m 23s):
All of these are disproportionate, more prevalent among shift workers. But then when you think about clinical trials, whether it's a drug or a lifestyle, often one of the top 10 exclusion factor criteria is shift work. So people who are doing shift work, we exclude them from many of these trials. One thing is most physicians and most scientists, even people who do shift work, they know that they are the body and mind is so messed up that oftentimes even medications may not help them. And so that's why we don't try new medication, why to take the risk and we know it may not help them.

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 43m 8s):
And then when it comes to lifestyle intervention, whether it's sleep extension for example, we cannot do because they are supposed to stay awake and do their job. We cannot ask them to stay asleep at night. And then physical activity and exercise, some people can do, but some people are so tired after all night that they don't have the energy to do physical activity. And then nutrition again, most nutrition studies involved the participants to come to the clinic and get one-on-one or one or attend group sessions and they cannot come and they cannot even sometimes come to the clinic visit when people have to take draw blood.

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 43m 54s):
And in fact there is another caveat that just if supposedly I'm healthy, I perfectly normal blood pressure, blood glucose, cholesterol, everything is normal and I live the life of a ship worker just for five nights, that means I'm sleeping less maybe four or five hours. And even if I don't eat at nighttime, of course many shift workers also feel hungry and just for to keep the work they eat just after five days, my blood glucose level will rate on most like I'm pre-diabetic.

Andrew Huberman (1h 44m 34s):
Wow. I actually saw a study in publishing prosthesis of the national academy that showed that even a hundred lux dim light present in the room while people are sleeping with eyes closed can lead to disruptions in morning blood glucose levels and directions that are not good. Yeah. One night. So the the faint clock in the corner or even a nightlight that's too bright. Yeah. Could be problematic by the way folks, these effects are reversible. So I, whenever I say these things I, we get a lot of comments about, oh my goodness, what have I been doing for years? But you know, kids with night lights, this is an issue. Yeah. But what I'm hearing is that one in five people are truly shift workers in the classic sense.

Andrew Huberman (1h 45m 17s):
Yeah. Their jobs require, they work at night or eat into the night and sleep into the day. But far more people are shift workers by virtue of the fact that they're tweeting or working or watching movies at night, even though it's not work and that they're not being paid for that time. They are essentially operating like shift workers. If we add those two groups together, would we say it's what a third of Americans?

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 45m 42s):
I would say half of Americans.

Andrew Huberman (1h 45m 43s):
Half of Americans,

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 45m 44s):
Yeah. If you, if you take teenagers because you know high school students and college students. Because again, going back to Horatio's study, because ASIO also collected activity data from high school students and college students. And we have replicated that with high school students and college students in San Diego. So that's Seattle and San Diego. And this study now there are many sleep researchers that have been collecting this data and what we find is typically they high school students, they are going to bed around midnight and college students, at least the U C S D students, we found maybe one out of hundred who went to bed before midnight.

Andrew Huberman (1h 46m 24s):
The, that reminds me that Hario Glacia just published this really nice paper showing that counter to what we believe students, now there's the University of Washington, Seattle I should mention where it's very dark in the winter. Young people, these are people in their twenties are staying up later in the winter months compared to the summer months. Yeah. Which is, you know, totally counterintuitive. You think, okay, everyone stays up late in the summer and goes to bed early in in the winter, but because of artificial lighting it's the exact opposite.

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 46m 52s):
Yeah. So, and another means, I don't know whether <unk> monitored it, but my other suspicion, I'm not saying whether it's true in winter we are more likely to consume more coffee, hot chocolate in the evening and that might also be delaying sleep onset.

Andrew Huberman (1h 47m 11s):
That makes sense.

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 47m 12s):
So in that way, again, here is another thing which can be related to policy or practice at educational institute. So what happened during Covid was everybody went to remote learning, the assignments became digital and assignments, some submiss became digital. And there are many systems, online systems that came into play. And by default the assignments, some missing deadline became midnight. So then now what is happening is, I don't know about Stanford in maybe you are, when you are giving assignment, when is the deadline?

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 47m 51s):
Midnight typically Midnight, yeah. So then most of us, most students, they will try to cram as much as possible, try to solve as much as possible and submit at midnight. And it'll be really cool to go back to your system administrator to see is there a f so many frequency, part of frequency distribution of what time people are submitting their assignment. Because we know means when we submit our grant, I,

Andrew Huberman (1h 48m 18s):
Yeah. So I mean, you know, you hear about the obesity crisis, the crisis of metabolic disorders, not just in the US but everywhere in the world. Yeah. I mean it's really striking. I remember going to a keystone meeting, scientific meeting in the early two thousands and there was a map of the United States and it showed where the obesity rates were over 30% in adults and the entire country basically was lighting up like crazy. Now it would be the entire country. But there were these kind of zones in the middle that were almost devoid of Of obesity. Colorado. Yeah. Namely Idaho at that time. Those are now also fallen under the umbrella of, of rampant obesity. Yeah. And you and everyone is speculating. Okay, is it, you know, is it seed oils, is it, is it this, is it that, is it highly processed foods?

Andrew Huberman (1h 49m 3s):
I'm, I'm guessing it's all of those things including lack of activity. But one has to wonder, given everything we're talking about in terms of metabolic dysfunction, late shifted, eating all these issues with late shifted eating and staying up late with artificial lighting. But they or not, that could be one of the major factors in the so-called obesity crisis.

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 49m 20s):
It's likely, you know, we always say freshman 15.

Andrew Huberman (1h 49m 23s):
That's right.

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 49m 24s):
Because this kids are gaining 15 pounds in their freshman year in college. And this is where I think as educator professors, it'll be interesting to go back and see what can we do. Because another thing that's also becoming more and more common, for example, I, I give a security under them class means I just give two lectures. And I remember when I started 15, 17 years ago, that lecture used to be around 1:30 PM or 2:00 PM in the afternoon and it's a two and a half hour lecture. So it's done by five. And for the last, before the pandemic, I realized that they changed the timing.

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 50m 7s):
Now the lecture was starting at 7:00 PM so I was finishing by nine, 9:30 PM and these kids, they had to go and eat after nine 30. Study, socialized, study, socialize,

Andrew Huberman (1h 50m 20s):
Fireside

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 50m 20s):
Chat, fireside chat. Yeah. And then to express themselves, like to feel free from assignments, what are they going do that after they submit the assignment, then they're going to do that. So that's why we had to go back and revisit this issue. Say, okay, so for adults, for most of us who are working at day job, our deadline is 5:00 PM in most cases, right? Means at least an university system, the person who is submitting the grant or who is doing taking care of my IRB or I cook, they're all living at five o'clock. So for me everything has to end by

Andrew Huberman (1h 50m 57s):
Five I think for most people out there. So this raises a, a kind of macroscopic question, which is maybe it's not so much about restricting the feeding window, but maybe it's about feeding mostly and and being active mostly in the early part of the day. I mean, you know, I could imagine a time three, four years from now when it's about when waking up early and going to bed within three hours of sunset is the protocol which harnesses all other protocols, right? Yeah. You're gonna exercise, you're gonna do it in that time you're gonna eat, you're gonna do it in that time you're gonna socialize, you're gonna do it in that time. And in doing so, you're also avoiding a lot of the issues related to disrupted sleep.

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 51m 35s):
Yeah. So that's why all these things, as you said, timeless refeeding is just one aspect of the security and health. And these are all interconnected. And going back to the comment about within three hours of sunset as that's good, but then what happens in say Toronto or Vancouver in wintertime,

Andrew Huberman (1h 51m 56s):
Well I guess they're going to bed very, very early, but also waking up very, very early. Yeah. So you know, one of the things that I hear all the time, because I'm always beating on the drum of getting morning sunlight, even if through cloud cover is people say there's no sun here this time of year. And I, I forgive me, but there is sun. Unless you live in a cave, their sun is just coming through cloud cover no matter where you live in the world. Their sun. Yeah. Unless you live in a cave. Of course. So I wanna make sure that we didn't overlook what was the major conclusion of the firefighter study. Okay,

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 52m 23s):
We'll go back to the firefighter study. So the reason why we did this study was, as I said, there are a lot of us who are living the lifestyle of firefighters or ship workers and ship workers are excluded from studies. So that means whatever we are learning about lifestyle or even medications that may be beneficial for people who actually have a normal schedule, but not for people who have a disrupted schedule. And if you look up clinical trial.gov, there are more than 400,000 studies listed. And if you search how many studies are on shift workers, it's less than a thousand. And then if you ask, most of them are to see what is wrong with shifted workers.

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 53m 6s):
Like that's how we know that shifted work increases our risk for metabolic disease, cancer and even some aspects of dementia. But if you ask how many studies are done to improve the health of shifted worker alone, that's less than 50 means I means I have to go back and check the actual number, but it's less than 50. Wow. So that's why we got super excited. We thought from security them perspective, that's something to address. So this study, again, this kind of study is only possible because I SA and we are affiliated with U C S D and I can work with U C S D physicians to do this study.

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 53m 51s):
So I collaborate with Dr. Pam to, who is the director of cardiac rehab center in U C S D. And Pam has many firefighters as her patients. And we both know that the number one cause for death and disability on work for firefighters is not fighting fire but just getting heart attack and stroke. So they have a very high incidence of heart attack and stroke and they're also highly prone to different kinds of cancer. And it may be difficult to ascribe cancer to disruption aria and destruction because they're also exposed to a lot of toxins. Anytime fire bones, that smell of fire is essentially smell of carcinogens and they're breathing, even if they have the hood on and respirator, they still get.

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 54m 42s):
So the idea was very simple. We know that firefighters, nearly 70% of firefighters in the US full-time firefighters because there are volunteer firefighters and then full-time firefighters, the full-time firefighters, 70% of them work 24 hours shipped. So for example, in San Diego, they come in at eight, they're shipped is from 8:00 AM to 8:00 AM the next day. And they do, at least in San Diego, they do one day on, one day off, on off four cycles and then four days off. And, but in some fire departments they actually do 48 hour shift. So they come for two days, two days off, two days, two days off, and then four or five days off.

Andrew Huberman (1h 55m 26s):
Brutal. Thank you firefighters.

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 55m 28s):
Yeah. Yeah. I mean so then the idea was, okay, so we'll screen firefighters and then find firefighters who are metabolically unhealthy and then we'll see whether they can actually follow 10 hours time respirating. Because the point is if firefighters can follow it, then everybody else will pay. Because with all that stress, if they can, and this is again where I should also acknowledge the San Diego Fire and Rescue Department because without their health we could not have even submitted the grant. And at that time, David Pecon, who is their health and wellness battalion chief, he's the one who actually approached us because he's very careful.

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 56m 13s):
He knew that the job that they do makes them weaker and long term and can kill them in long term. So he was always looking for new solutions. So he approached us and then we said, this is the idea. He said, well I love this idea because we are not asking them to sleep more or we are not going to cut down their overtime or shift or change the work schedule. The only thing we'll be doing is ask them to eat within 10 hours and hopefully we can do this so

Andrew Huberman (1h 56m 46s):
Consistently between the days that they're working and not working. Yes. So that means if they're from 8:00 AM to 8:00 AM working, then the next day then they go home, then they're gonna eat on the same schedule they did when they were at the fire firehouse. Yeah. But while at home. So they're not allowing themselves to, to deviate from that. Yeah.

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 57m 3s):
So we, we thought whether they can do it or not, because the number one goal or the primary outcome in this clinical trial was feasibility, can they do it? And then second was if they do it and what happens to their blood sugar and weight and all this other stuff. And then we started the study and we hit the next hurdle. And that is, you know, firefighters a very, very tight-knit community and they want to make sure that you understand their culture. And the best way to understand their culture is to live the life of a firefighter. So Emil Manuian, who is the first author, see, and then we had Adina Urian who is now in med school, she was a research coordinator at that time.

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 57m 48s):
They volunteered. They said, okay, we'll go to the BGS fire station in San Diego and we'll live the life of a firefighter and the San Diego Fire and Rescue and the city. They all agreed, they reported for duty at seven 30 in the morning there was signed a bed in the station because all fire stations do have some beds for fire firefighters to rest. And they have assigned bed. So they were assigned a bed. Yeah. So every time a nine one one call came. And if that fire station in that fire station, that fire engine was called then, just like other firefighters, they had to run, get into the gears, just the shoes and a jacket and a helmet and get into the seat and attend the call.

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 58m 33s):
Of course they want go to the side, they just get out of the truck, wait there, then come back. So in that 24 hours, Emily got 10 calls at night that she had to run to. But there are more than 10 times they, they got the nine one. Every time the nine one one call came. Then there is a beep that goes out. All firefighters were sleeping or resting, they would get up. Or if they're doing something, they'll look up to see which engine is called.

Andrew Huberman (1h 59m 3s):
Interesting. So it's not just the ones that go out, it's everyone gets woken

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 59m 7s):
Up. Everyone gets woken up. So that means in a night, typical night, they're waking up 10, 15, 20 times sometimes. So they're almost like, you know, new moms are like firefighters because they don't have any idea what time the baby will cry. And for what reason also they don't know. So similarly it's five. So that's what Emily did. And then next morning once she came back she was like, no,

Andrew Huberman (1h 59m 32s):
Which grad school seem easy?

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 59m 34s):
Yeah,

Andrew Huberman (1h 59m 34s):
So, so

Dr. Satchin Panda (1h 59m 35s):
Then we did the study and we essentially assigned all the firefighters. We recruited her and 50 firefighters, we assigned half of them to Mediterranean in diet because you cannot do any harm, you have to give them something good. So that's another thing They said, no, we want something that we know works for firefighters. And there was a Mediterranean in diet study, so, so everybody was supposed to follow Mediterranean diet and then half, nearly 75 of them were supposed to eat within 10 hours. We did not fix the 10 hours because we said you pick your own 10 hours that you can stick to,

Andrew Huberman (2h 0m 13s):
But it has to be consistent from day to day. So if you start eating at 9:00 AM you finish at nine at, you know, at 7:00 PM PM

Dr. Satchin Panda (2h 0m 19s):
And then try to be,

Andrew Huberman (2h 0m 20s):
Yeah, okay, more

Dr. Satchin Panda (2h 0m 20s):
Hours. Try to try, try to be consistent because we said yes, we understand that there will be some things and you can take maybe half an hour here and there and we'll see how many times you can do it. And what is interesting was, although they were all doing 24 hour shift, they more or less chose to begin eating somewhere between 8:00 AM and 11:00 AM and they did not skip any meal. They had their first meal or what we call breakfast, but it was several hours after waking up because they're waking up at five or six and they're driving to come to work at seven 30 or eight and they're eating the first meal, say between eight and 11.

Dr. Satchin Panda (2h 1m 3s):
And then the finished meal 10 hours later. And what we found is more or less, most of them could stick to doing this at least five days out of seven days. And then at the end of the study, when we look at their health parameters, one thing, as I said, we recruited everybody who came. So that means nearly one in three firefighters were completely healthy. They had no sign of any, any illness. No high blood pressure, high blood sugar or high cholesterol depression or anything. So since we have one third of the population who are already healthy and then everybody has slightly different conditions, some have high blood pressure, but they don't have high blood glucose.

Dr. Satchin Panda (2h 1m 51s):
Somebody has high blood glucose but not high blood pressure. So it is kind of heterogeneous. So we do not see a big difference in wet loss or any, we change between these two grooves. Another thing is the firefighters actually run almost eight to nine miles when they're at the job because that's part of their exercise routine. But then one thing that changed significantly in the time reating growth was what we call B D L particle size and particle number. Because this is something that we know this very low density lipoprotein, these are atrogenic and if we can manage them much better and we reduce the risk for atherosclerosis.

Dr. Satchin Panda (2h 2m 36s):
So that's one parameter that changed in the timeless fitting group. Even when we combine all healthy, unhealthy, everybody. Now if we take firefighters who are beginning with high blood pressure, then we saw significant reduction in their systolic as well as diastolic blood pressure. And the change in blood pressure, of course we don't clean that in the manuscript, but when we talk about it, some physician would get up and say, wow, that looks like almost they're on a blood pressure lowering drug. So the extent of blood pressure lowering is equivalent to somebody taking a antihypertensives drug.

Andrew Huberman (2h 3m 16s):
Amazing.

Dr. Satchin Panda (2h 3m 16s):
Yeah. And then those who started with high blood sugar, of course we didn't have too many type two diabetic, but there are few few pre-diabetic and they could better manage their blood glucose. And this is interesting because once shipped workers become pre-diabetic or diabetic, they have more difficulty managing their blood sugar than non shipped workers because the work schedule itself will mess them up too much. Even if they're on many medication, they have difficulty.

Andrew Huberman (2h 3m 47s):
That's fascinating. And I, I'm really glad that you explained the study in such detail cuz I would've thought, you know, from reading the abstract and I did look at the data, but if someone were to look at the abstract, they'd say, oh, firefighters. So they're waking up in the middle of the night and they're, you know, throwing on their gear and going out to calls and doing, but if I understand correctly, all firefighters are being woken up by the signal, which makes the firefighter population a bit more similar to the more standard population who's waking up in the middle of the night to use the bathroom, getting on social media for a couple of minutes or flipping on the lights. I mean it's, it's maybe not as severe as what firefighters are doing. Yeah. But we know there are blood sugar regulation issues related to those multiple middle of the night wakings, especially if people are then staring at screens.

Andrew Huberman (2h 4m 32s):
Yeah. So I think it's really important that people were able to hear about the, the deeper contours of the study. I mean this result of regulating blood sugar better is really powerful. I get asked all the time, you know, I've got a new kid or I'm a shift worker, how can I do this morning sunlight viewing? What I'm hearing is that keeping a regular meal schedule every day,

Dr. Satchin Panda (2h 4m 54s):
At least five, five out of seven days,

Andrew Huberman (2h 4m 56s):
Seven or as close to every day, sort of like sleep, I always say try and get a really great night's sleep. 80% or more of the nights of your life. Yeah. And on the other 20%, hopefully it's for fun reasons, a great party or something like that, or a celebration of some sort. That seems to me a great anchor point when one can't reliably control their sleep wake cycle. Yeah. Does that mean that if somebody is coming off of shift work and they're very, very tired that they would be better off staying awake and eating than sleeping?

Dr. Satchin Panda (2h 5m 27s):
Well, it's, yeah. So this is where we get into nuances. So here the firefighters are 24 hour shift workers. So that means, and they have been working this shift for very long time. So they have figured out, and one thing is yes, firefighters are different from nurses and healthcare workers who have to work throughout the night and they're staying awake throughout the night. Whereas firefighters, they get opportunity to sleep and even with their 10 calls, they actually have opportunity to come back and go to sleep. And in fact when Emily and Adina, they were in the fire and what they observed was firefighters after they, after attending a call, they're not coming back and playing cards or trying to watch the news or get the score.

Dr. Satchin Panda (2h 6m 12s):
They know they will just go back and, and lie in the bed and switch up the light. So whenever they got any opportunity to sleep, they would try to sleep. So in that way, their sleep date and sleep pressure during daytime is not as strong as a night shift nurse or a truck driver who is driving all night because they have, they're staying away throughout the night. So when people say, yes, you found this and can you extend it to other shift workers, my answer is no. We have to go back and figure out that's why we went to the station and figured out what would work for them. If I have to go and do this for some nurses, maybe even I will go or our staff will go and figure out what is that work schedule, what happens?

Dr. Satchin Panda (2h 7m 1s):
Do they have opportunity to eat, do they have opportunity to even take five minutes break? What do they do during break? And all of these things come into play. But here, another thing is, I always said that in other timers of feeding paper we see change in nutrition quality and quantity. But here we also saw that somehow both groups inadvertently they improved the nutrition quality because everybody was told to eat Mediterranean diet. They increase their fruits and vegetables and olive oil and text slightly. And when they had to stop eating early, they also reduced their alcohol intake.

Dr. Satchin Panda (2h 7m 45s):
And this is very significant because many shift workers just to cope with the shift work that tend to depend on alcohol at night and caffeine in the morning. So they begin their day with caffeine and end with alcohol. And now we can relate that many normal people who are not doing shift work. We also more or less begin our day with caffeine and many of us end with alcohol. And then when they reduce that eating to 10 hours and then we saw a significant reduction in alcohol and intake in the timeless eating group, but not in the standard of care or Mediterranean diet

Andrew Huberman (2h 8m 24s):
Group. I certainly support that. We did an episode on alcohol and I was shocked when I researched that to learn that zero to two drinks per week is essentially the threshold beyond which, yeah, you start seeing health deficits in particular cancers and metabolic disruption, sleep disruption, and increased anxiety when people aren't under the influence of alcohol. I mean, it's pretty incredible how alcohol is kind of escaped as the, the opposite of caffeine and therefore not a health hazard. It's, and, and here, I'm, I'm somebody, I have a drink every once in a while, no big deal for me. I can have it or not have it, but it's just striking how alcohol, despite extensive data that it can really disrupt health even at three drinks per week.

Andrew Huberman (2h 9m 9s):
Yeah. Is is just avidly consumed as if it was kind of like food or caffeine. It's really incredible. I, I wanna make sure that I circle back to something you mentioned earlier because I know there are going to be a number of people that asked this, if I recall, you said that provided that the feeding window is not shorter than eight hours, that men, women and children can use time-restricted feeding.

Dr. Satchin Panda (2h 9m 34s):
Well when I say yeah, so what I, what I say is 12 hours for example

Andrew Huberman (2h 9m 39s):
12, excuse me. 12 hours. 12 hours. Thank you for that

Dr. Satchin Panda (2h 9m 41s):
Clarification because we did a study that was published in 2015 and again, behind many of our studies there is a story. So we are publishing all these mouse stories and then I would go to conferences and, and of course the some, some people would give me a look saying, well you must be doing something wrong. We, this just breaks the xlo of thermodynamics because how come they're eating the same number of calories and not getting wet. And of course by that time we figured out that at least in mouse, timeless repeating also changes the gut microbiome in a way that the mice may be pooping out little bit more fat and sugar than absorbing them.

Dr. Satchin Panda (2h 10m 26s):
So one thing that happens in time redistributing, at least in mice, is the liver cholesterol metabolism to bi it and biles its ex excretion in the gut changes because they got microbiome changes. So this is very nice study when Amir par was in the lab, now he has his own lab in U C S D and he meticulously did that and we, we even did bomb ry from the poop and metabolomics from the poop. And then we figured out that they extract some, some calories and then that brown fat activity goes up.

Dr. Satchin Panda (2h 11m 6s):
So they may be burning some of these extra calories.

Andrew Huberman (2h 11m 9s):
So they're more thermogenic,

Dr. Satchin Panda (2h 11m 10s):
More thermogenic. But anyway, so you know, one nice thing, awesome thing about Salk is if they see that your science is going well, then they will find ways to help you. And this is, that's terrific. Yeah. Yeah. And this is when Bill Brody was our president, he was the president of Hopkins for 12 years and then who was president and that time he had started this innovation grant program which was funded by orwin. Jacob Orwin is the founder of Qualcomm and was also a faculty at U C S D. So he understand there are very few tech leaders who actually spend some time in academia.

Dr. Satchin Panda (2h 11m 53s):
So he understood the pain of getting grant money when you have some interesting idea or test some idea. So

Andrew Huberman (2h 12m 1s):
Yeah, no knock on the nih but I'll do it anyway because I sit on study section for the nih. I mean with NIH wants to see proposals for things that are so certain to work Yeah. That they're mostly done. And so really groundbreaking work can happen and does happen with NIH funding, but more often than not is it, is the generosity of philanthropists like Irwin Jacobs and other people that Yeah. Allow the really pioneering the new stuff, the cool stuff. Yeah, the the groundbreaking stuff, the stuff that really, no, I'm not gonna say really matters. It all matters. It's all important. It

Dr. Satchin Panda (2h 12m 33s):
Matters, but you know, it's high risk and n nih, when NIH is not just government is not making money from thin air means it's taxpayers money. So there is a little bit responsibility or conservative that, okay, so we should not waste taxpayers money on find this guy kind of project

Andrew Huberman (2h 12m 50s):
Too much and be clear, we're not talking about politically conservative, we're talking about scientifically conservative to be so careful with language nowadays, pretty soon we're just gonna sit and stare at one another at the microphones to stay safe. So, so that's interesting. So the

Dr. Satchin Panda (2h 13m 4s):
So that way started this and then what we did was we, I had a awesome grad student and we got this funding from Arwin and also there are some, any philanthropy matters. So actually the way we say is yes, if you gimme 50 bucks, then that 50 bucks towards goes towards buying the gloves and fend of tubes for one postdoc for maybe seven days.

Andrew Huberman (2h 13m 28s):
So, so true. I think a lot of people don't realize that 99% of laboratory scientists just, they, they don't make any money off their discoveries. And even if there is a patentable discovery, typically the div, the divide between the institution and the company that will eventually put that to market is so slim in favor of the, the others involved that, you know, scientists really do this as a, as work of passion, labor, labor love. So,

Dr. Satchin Panda (2h 13m 52s):
So we, we came up with this app, my security and clock at that time and we took some, you know, lessons from tech leaders, particularly from Amazon one click checkout because we thought most nutrition apps actually ask people to detail describe what they had go to their food library and then person size, they said okay, so we'll just shortcut all of that. We just ask people to take a picture of the food, open the app, one click, take a picture, second click and press set, third click. And when they said the picture actually came to our server did not stay on their phone and we asked 156 people who are not shifted workers, just regular worker or homemakers to be part of the study.

Dr. Satchin Panda (2h 14m 40s):
No student was allowed to be part of the study because we know that there's lifestyle is like shift workers and we monitor for three weeks. And so here is some nuances and I want people to understand, so when somebody is starting to eat at say 7:00 AM and since they're recording everything, we, we got every single thing, even if they ate half a cookie, they have to take a picture and they actually took picture because it's not, it becomes second nature after three or four days that every time they add something, even if there was a glass of water, they actually took a picture because we asked them take picture of everything, we'll figure out what it's, what is surprising was we found the median.

Dr. Satchin Panda (2h 15m 28s):
So the median number of times people eat within a day, 24 hours a day is actually seven. So it's not, it's not that we are eating three times a day. We actually snacked a little bit

Andrew Huberman (2h 15m 40s):
And then seven times per

Dr. Satchin Panda (2h 15m 41s):
Day. Seven times. And there are 10% of people. The top decile was eating 12 times a day. Wow. And it makes sense in retrospect sometimes maybe I'll fall into that seven or eight before I did this study because you know, getting up having coffee with cream and sugar is one. And then I ate my breakfast, that's two. Then I came to the lab and I found that cookie, that's three. Then I went to a meeting and there was some cookie and something else, that's another one. Then lunch and then afternoon somebody asked me to go out and have a meeting. And so if you think about it, it's very normal that we can go seven to eight times 10 times.

Dr. Satchin Panda (2h 16m 26s):
But then if we look at what time, say I start breakfast and as I said, and we see that in many people they'll start at seven o'clock one day, then seven 30 another day, then eight 15 another day or they go back to 6:00 AM because they have to get up early and go to work. So we take all these food data from three weeks and then ask what is the time when your body system is expecting it to eat? Because it's kind of averages out. It's kind of thinking, okay, maybe for you if you're eating breakfast at say somewhere between 6:00 AM 7 30, 7 45 ate it, maybe you are expecting food around seven o'clock, let's forget about six 15, there's an outlier.

Dr. Satchin Panda (2h 17m 7s):
And then similarly, at the end of the day somebody is hitting, finishing the last bite or the night cap, whatever you call it. Say one at 9:00 PM 9:30 PM 10 11, 12 30 or one. Let's ignore that one and 1230. But still we got somewhere between seven to 1130 for that person over three weeks time. So this is how we kind of figure out what is the likelihood that your body will encounter food. So when we do that, what we found was nearly 50% of adults in our study, eight for 14 hours, 45 minutes that window when your body is expecting food.

Dr. Satchin Panda (2h 17m 47s):
So it's easy to say that 50% of adults are eating within 15 hours or longer.

Andrew Huberman (2h 17m 56s):
Wow. And, and quite frequently throughout

Dr. Satchin Panda (2h 17m 57s):
That quite frequently too. And then if we ask what fraction of our adults we're actually eating the conventional within 12 hours, three meals a day or something like that was 10%. So

Andrew Huberman (2h 18m 12s):
Snacking has gone up dramatically. However you want to define snacking the frequency of of food intake throughout the day. Yeah.

Dr. Satchin Panda (2h 18m 18s):
And outside this breakfast, lunch and dinner, there are all these small snacks here and there. And also for a lot of people the dinner is delayed. And we went back and looked at, okay, so what kind of food people are eating late at night and all that stuff. And what came out interesting, which is very counterintuitive, is people who prepare their own dinner, they're more likely to eat later at night because they're coming home and then they're taking some time to prepare dinner and then they're sitting down and eating or maybe they're eating next to the computer, whatever it is. So is kind of interesting that came out. But coming back to your point, that's why I say that nearly 90% of adults are eating for more than 12 hours.

Dr. Satchin Panda (2h 19m 4s):
So that means a lot of people can, there is scope or there is enough head space to reduce and eat within. So as I said, all of this are interrelated. So when you think about children, most sleep researchers agree that children and teenagers should sleep somewhere between nine to 10 or 11 hours because young children, even five to 10 year old, they should sleep nine to 10 hours.

Andrew Huberman (2h 19m 31s):
Yeah. They're just pumping out growth hormone and growing, growing, growing.

Dr. Satchin Panda (2h 19m 34s):
Yeah. Yeah. And then the teenagers actually the recommendation is they should be sleeping nine hours because if you take teenagers, take out all the stimulatory inputs to them and then remove homework assignment and everything and then let them kind of equilibriate to their homeostasis, what they're likely, how many hours they're likely to sleep, that turns out to be somewhere between eight and a half to nine and a half hours. Which also means that going back to sleep, nearly 90% of high school students in this country are chronically sleep deprived because most high school students don't get nine hours of sleep on a regular basis.

Dr. Satchin Panda (2h 20m 17s):
Maybe in the weekend

Andrew Huberman (2h 20m 19s):
Probably because of devices. Yeah. They're on iPads.

Dr. Satchin Panda (2h 20m 21s):
And also as I said, this new idea that midnight is your assignment, some missing time. Right. I'll come back to that again and again.

Andrew Huberman (2h 20m 29s):
Yeah, I'm hearing that again, again. So teachers take note, I it's an inter, it's a very interesting idea as a way to kind of anchor behavior earlier in the day. Yeah. Learning to in, I mean public health is complicated because people are incentivized by fear but they, you know, you get more bees with honey as they say. Right. You know, there's incentivizing people to wake earlier, not necessarily with the sunrise, but wake earlier and go to sleep earlier and eat within an eight to 12 hour window. 12 if it's,

Dr. Satchin Panda (2h 21m 1s):
Yeah. So

Andrew Huberman (2h 21m 1s):
That's what I say children. Yeah. It sounds to me like you know, all these health benefits are what I think are going to incentivize people more than, for instance, this idea that well if you don't do this you're gonna get dementia or something of that sort. No. Right.

Dr. Satchin Panda (2h 21m 13s):
Like every day people will feel more healthy and more productive. And so that's why I said that even if children are supposed to sleep for nine hours, of course they're not eating during those nine hours and we are not feeding children and putting them down to sleep because you know, their core body temperature will be high, they cannot fall asleep. So at least they should have the last meal one or two hours before going to bed because typically parents feed them and maybe give them a shower or a bath and then they read the bedtime stories. So it's one to two hours before bedtime. They're finishing food similarly on the other end after they wake up. It's not that we are waking them up and then fitting them.

Dr. Satchin Panda (2h 21m 55s):
Hopefully we're not doing that. So that's at 12 hours seems to be optimum. And it's not only, I'm saying that if we put all the health recommendations together from Pedias and then it makes sense.

Andrew Huberman (2h 22m 10s):
Fascinating. I have a question about structuring, meal intake or food intake during the eating window. I have a good friend, actually he's, he's the neurosurgeon at Neuralink now, but he came up through Stanford and, and he has a habit of eating, of skipping one meal per day within a feeding window. So it might be breakfast, lunch, skip dinner one day, then it might be breakfast dinner the next day, lunch and dinner, the next one. So it's not in keeping with the same start time always. Yeah. But the end time is either gonna be earlier or the, there's a gate. It's never later. Yeah, yeah, it's never later. What do you think about that as a strategy?

Andrew Huberman (2h 22m 51s):
You know, in many ways it feels like that fits with the way that a lot of people's lives run. So sometimes for instance, if I'm in a podcast, I don't tend to eat much during the middle of the day cuz it makes me a little bit gro groggy. Yeah. The post perennial dip in energy. Yeah. So I'll do breakfast well but again at 11, that's a first. That's when I break my fast 11 ish and then dinner, maybe a snack in the middle of the day, but other days it's three meals other. So does it matter overall as long as one isn't allowing the start time and the ending time to drift out, is it okay if you go from 12 hours to 10 to 8, 8, 10, 4, 12 as long as you don't exceed that, the, the brackets are you?

Andrew Huberman (2h 23m 34s):
Okay,

Dr. Satchin Panda (2h 23m 34s):
So this is where the security and aspect come in because if you are going, if you're moving that breakfast time or dinner time, three, four hours, you are essentially causing maybe a metabolic jet lag. You know, in short term in weeks, months or maybe even few years, you may not see any change. But at the same time we don't know what is the long term consequences. One thing is we always think, I'll come back to this point again and again, we think that our body weight is a marker of health or body composition is a marker of health. It's not always true because as I said, issue reflux feeling, you know, having some pain of depression or anxiety or

Andrew Huberman (2h 24m 18s):
Or ldl like high ldl.

Dr. Satchin Panda (2h 24m 20s):
High ldl, a

Andrew Huberman (2h 24m 20s):
Lot of of thin people have or or low body fat people have very high ldl. Yeah.

Dr. Satchin Panda (2h 24m 24s):
Yeah. So those are the things that we don't connect with our habit. And since circadian rhythm and meal timing, meal structure now is a very new field. I think good studies will come out only in a few years because right now people are just going back and retrospectively looking at some diet record one day of diet record and trying to glean too much out of it. But I think hopefully things will improve where people will become it. It'll become standard to at least look for one week of diet record mealtime and what they're eating, all that stuff because they're now mouse studies also showing whether front loading carbohydrate or front loading fat or protein has benefit over.

Dr. Satchin Panda (2h 25m 11s):
So I think this studies are starting so I should not comment whether that's good or bad.

Andrew Huberman (2h 25m 17s):
No, I think it's great to hold off until then we have you back on to discuss, I have a question about fasting on the longer term and there it's a near infinite space we could explore of two days of fasting one day. I know people that every once in a while they just decide I'm fasting, they've either been eating too much at parties or they're not feeling well or whatever. They just decide I'm fasting for 24 hours and they'll still consume water and caffeine but they'll just fast. Is there any health benefit or detriment? You mentioned the circadian clock shifting effects, but if somebody wakes up on Sunday and they, you know, they ate too much or they feel they ate too much or they don't like the food they ate on Saturday, they're not really feeling it and they're just gonna fast into Monday.

Andrew Huberman (2h 26m 2s):
Is there any known benefit or health detriment to doing that kind of thing?

Dr. Satchin Panda (2h 26m 8s):
Yeah, there is a, actually a rich literature on this complete fast and impact in many religion. People practice complete fast as a way to cleanse their body and people have seen that there are benefits to that. So in fact the every other day eating in mouse model or even in humans, there are also initially some studies were done, there are many health benefits and right now there are even fasting clinics in Germany where people check in and they're under strict supervision and then they do complete fast or maybe a small bowl of soup which has a hundred, 200 kilo cow and that's all they get to eat sometimes two, three days, four days, five days even.

Dr. Satchin Panda (2h 26m 58s):
They have gone up to three or four weeks

Andrew Huberman (2h 27m 0s):
For sake of weight loss. Is that why?

Dr. Satchin Panda (2h 27m 2s):
For many different things And they come out pretty well healthy, of course they're under supervision, make sure that they're getting micro micronutrient, sorry, the micronutrients vitamins and and electrolytes. So those studies are pretty solid. People have observed that. And then in fact there are even idea that fasting, this kind of fasting can have huge impact on brain and people may come out of treatment resistant depression or something. But you know, so those studies are very difficult to do. They're only case of one here and there that we hear once in a while. But hopefully in future we'll see whether the depression, anxiety, the mental health aspect will benefit from fasting because now as there is more and more evidence that there's this gut brain access and whether the presence of food or the microbiome changes in the gut, if they can affect brain then maybe long term fasting, periodic fasting of few days of low calorie diet back to back will be interesting to see how it impacts brand health.

Andrew Huberman (2h 28m 13s):
Very interesting. What are your thoughts on fat fasting where people try and limit their blood glucose by only eating mainly fats, mainly healthy. Typically they'll eat healthier fats. So avocados, olive oils and nuts and you know, and some animal fats perhaps, but as a way to keep blood glucose low and also time restrict. This goes back to the kind of low carbohydrate Yeah thing. What, what are your thoughts on that as as a general strategy for health? I mean it combines sort of two general themes that are out there. I think both of which are, you know, data are still incoming that restricting the feeding times it can be beneficial as well as keeping blood overall blood glucose lower can be beneficial.

Dr. Satchin Panda (2h 28m 56s):
Yeah, I think there is too much emphasis now on blood sugar spiking or we don't know. This kind of eating pattern for example means we are essentially telling pancreas that okay it's are the eyelet cells that produce insulin, that's okay, you can take, take a break, go on vacation for a, for a month or two or three months. My question is, it'll be interesting to see what happens to those eyelets because for example, we know that if we disuse or unuse our muscles, those muscle atrophy muscles will be become weaker.

Dr. Satchin Panda (2h 29m 42s):
We don't know whether long term consequences of this very low carbo diet where you are not essentially engaging the eyelet cells periodically, what is its impact? So if there is no impact, maybe it's okay maybe because as you know, many people who actually work on ketonic diet, the researchers themselves, they find it very difficult to stay in true ketonic diet because the true ketonic diet is consuming less than 10% of calories from carbohydrate

Andrew Huberman (2h 30m 15s):
And not very many from protein. A lot of people think ketogenic diet allows 'em to eat massive amounts of meat and that's not clearly the case. Just one clarification for people. Satin was referring to eyelet cells of the pancreas, which are the ones that manufacture insulin. So the question is whether or not taking in low levels of blood glucose by way of a low carbohydrate diet, the those eyelet cells are going to shut off their production. Very interesting. I mean the livers are very plastic tissue, I mean it tends to react very dramatically to to lifestyle

Dr. Satchin Panda (2h 30m 45s):
Changes. Yeah. So that's why it'll be interesting to see what happens means we know that even muscle disuse for example, people who become better than the lose some muscle mass, but when they come back and exercise they gain it back. So it'll be interesting to see what happens and these people who are going through long-term ketonic diet and of course once in a while because of social pressure or something else, if they don't have access to food or something happens, they may consume some sugar, some blood workers will spike. But it's not that every spike is bad. I mean the reason why we have insulin is for good reason

Andrew Huberman (2h 31m 22s):
To buffer that spike

Dr. Satchin Panda (2h 31m 24s):
To buffer that spike. And also, you know, people always say that, well if you have insulin produced or insulin like growth factor, those are really bad and it should avoid that. And I think that's a little bit extreme and I

Andrew Huberman (2h 31m 35s):
Mean that's a, the insulin growth factor is evolved in muscle protein synthesis, tissue repair. Yeah. Maybe even cognition. So yeah.

Dr. Satchin Panda (2h 31m 43s):
Yeah. And it also goes back to as say mTOR activism and all that stuff. People get really excited about how to reduce mTOR activism, rapamycin and all that stuff. So this is where, again, from circadian point of view, I ask people to think, okay, so two very popular drug like molecules or drugs that people think will increase longevity or metformin, which many people agree not all will come to a consensus that it activates p kin the sensor and the cells that sense that your cells are fasting.

Dr. Satchin Panda (2h 32m 26s):
Okay. So metformin kind of activates it so that it kind of, you can say, although it may not be scientifically accurate, the, you know, fasting and appeal

Andrew Huberman (2h 32m 36s):
So sort of mimics fasting. Yeah, and and the, and the thing I'd lump in there with metformin is that burberine is kind of the poor man's metformin. It's a tree bark extract that also dramatically lowers blood glucose. Yeah,

Dr. Satchin Panda (2h 32m 47s):
Yeah. And it mimics kind of that fasting. And then rapamycin also kind of reduces mTOR activation and people have shown that rapamycin <unk> and metformin can extend mouse lifespan and in improve health. Okay. So now let's go back to the calorie restriction study that I mentioned. In calorie restriction, people are giving food as a lump sum and they were essentially doing time restriction. The mice were doing time restriction. If we think about it during daytime when experimenters are coming to the bium, the mice should be sleeping and fasting and they should naturally have high level of kinase if they're truly fasting.

Dr. Satchin Panda (2h 33m 40s):
And they should also have low level of mTOR activity because mTOR responds to insulin and that should go off at night. So my suspicion is in many of these experiments where the mice were allowed to eat at levitton, even normal standard cha, now we are, we know that as mice get older they actually consume a little bit more food during daytime,

Andrew Huberman (2h 34m 8s):
Which is the equivalent of human nighttime.

Dr. Satchin Panda (2h 34m 10s):
Humans nighttime eating,

Andrew Huberman (2h 34m 11s):
This is like nighttime eating we know is an issue. I didn't realize that was more of an issue as people age, but

Dr. Satchin Panda (2h 34m 16s):
Yeah, so we don't know, but at least in mice because you know, we can put the mice in calorie metric, look at every single bite they're eating, how much they're eating. So I guess it was natural to see that re researchers found that there is some mTOR activity during daytime when the mice were not supposed to have mTOR activity because they should be fasting. And since they ate little bit they were snacking during daytime AMPKinase activity was not at its peak. So giving metformin kind of mimic their fasting state and reducing mTOR activity by drug like rapamycin also kind of mimicked some aspect of the casting state.

Dr. Satchin Panda (2h 34m 59s):
So my suspicion is since these studies were done always in mice who are supposed to be in the fasting state and both enter, sorry, rapamycin and kinase activator, metformin kind of are mimicking that fasting state. That's why we have seen those benefits and it'll be interesting to see if that experiment could be done in humans in long-term because many people are very excited about, you know, there is mTOR, long-term metformin study and then a lot of people are actually consuming good amount of rapamycin off level they can get their own. So that's my curiosity.

Dr. Satchin Panda (2h 35m 41s):
I'm not saying whether it's good or bad or whether there is science or not. That's something that'll be interesting to control for and see because recently I, I saw one of my, again close friend and colleague at Scripps Kaia suited a very simple elegant study people should have done in metformin field. It took mice and then measured their blood glucose at different time of the day. And in fact just like human blood glucose, our blood glucose fluctuate a little bit. She saw that rhythm them and then in every two hours or three hours on different days, of course she gave the same dose of metformin into mice.

Dr. Satchin Panda (2h 36m 21s):
And what she found was at different time of the day, metformin had very dramatic change in glucose reducing ability. So which means that even if you take metformin and give at different time of the day for the mouse or even for humans in very long term, of course in these mice and these mice were not diabetic or anything or healthy mice to begin with. So in long term we might see benefits that are very different. So this brings to this idea that well maybe Metformin say at the end of the day, even metformin may trigger that fasting state much earlier than end of digestion.

Dr. Satchin Panda (2h 37m 5s):
Whereas metformin in the beginning of the day may at least from longevity perspective, I'm not talking about diabetes type two diabetes here. Sure. So the same thing with mTOR. Is mTOR going to have much better impact it's taken during evening, morning before meal. So these are my thoughts that go along with all this fat story that we talked about.

Andrew Huberman (2h 37m 32s):
Do you take metformin or Burberine?

Dr. Satchin Panda (2h 37m 35s):
No, I haven't taken, although you know, I have close friend and colleague Ruben Shaw who is now the director of cancer center at Saul. He extensively works on AMPKinase and it's mechanisms and so it's always fun to talk to him to see he's

Andrew Huberman (2h 37m 53s):
A, he's a fan. Yeah, I've taken burberine before and I've had two different very distinct experiences with them. First of all, burberine when ingested with carbohydrates, in particular carbohydrates that have a lot of simple sugars. Definitely. I know this cuz I measured my blood glucose. Yeah, I did. The experiment allows you to flatten out your blood glucose response. So you know, in some sense if you're, you know, there is this idea if you're gonna eat a particularly big meal or sugary meal Yeah. And you don't want to get a massive blood glucose rise. You take burberine or metformin. Metformin is Yeah. Prescription that's, I went with Burberine cuz it's, as far as I know, it works as as well. Yeah.

Dr. Satchin Panda (2h 38m 31s):
At least for healthy people.

Andrew Huberman (2h 38m 32s):
Yeah, for healthy people. That's right. Yeah. When I took berberine and did not ingest large amounts of simple sugars or carbohydrates along with it, I experienced profound hypoglycemia. I felt like complete garbage for about eight hours and I had one of the worst headaches of my life. Yeah. Because which makes sense, you just got a blood sugar crash. So if you lower blood, your blood sugar, when you already have fairly low blood sugar and you're not ingesting carbohydrates, you can really bottom out your, your blood glucose. So just say it's, I say that as a, for two reasons. One is kind of a cautionary note and the other one that when you think about the biology of these compounds, it makes perfect sense and I think that, and I did not pay attention to circadian effects.

Andrew Huberman (2h 39m 13s):
Yeah,

Dr. Satchin Panda (2h 39m 13s):
Yeah, yeah. I mean it's a, you know, when I joined soc around that, you know Ron, Ivan who is the kind of the big leader in si in metabolism and he works on nuclear hormone receptors. These are the master regulatory of metabolism and normal cells, cancer cells and many other. And what was interesting was in the first few years, Ron did a very simple experiment. He just looked at what time of the day these nuclear hormone receptors are turned on at gene expression level and some at protein level. And he found that almost all of them have a circadian pattern, at least in some tissue.

Dr. Satchin Panda (2h 39m 54s):
So he went to that length to say even that circadian is metabolism and metabolism is circadian. The reason why we have a circadian rhythm is to have a deli rhythms in food seeking behavior and eating and also go through a period of time when we should be fasting. And then on the other hand, all the metabolic regulators also have to follow that rule. And almost all metabolic regulators, everything that we can think of connected to metabolizing macronutrient protein, carbon fat, they should also have a circadian rhythm moreal cycle to align or misalign.

Dr. Satchin Panda (2h 40m 40s):
So for example, fat oxidation should be an opposite phase with feeding. And you know, in retrospect at that time it was kind of amazing to see Ron could foresee, of course he's smart enough to foresee and predict that this is going to happen to circadian field because at that time we are thinking about the supra nuclear sleep wake cycle and we are not thinking too much about metabolism. So that's the awesome thing about, so being at saag, because we are 50 PIs really crammed into to awesome buildings and with open lab structure. So you bump onto each other and talk to So,

Andrew Huberman (2h 41m 19s):
And with an ocean view.

Dr. Satchin Panda (2h 41m 20s):
Oh, with ocean view,

Andrew Huberman (2h 41m 21s):
Yes. It, it's an amazing place. I was lucky enough to have an adjunct position there when I, when my lab was at U C S D and it is an amazing place doing incredible groundbreaking work, which of of course includes yours. Listen, Sachin, I, I'm clear now that we have to have you back on for another series of discussions. Seriously speaking, if, if you'd be so sure, so kind and willing to do that. I want to thank you for several things. First of all for your taking the time today to sit down and discuss these incredibly interesting ideas in detail. You know, much of what we talk about on the podcast is obviously grounded in science and, and often but not always as actionable.

Andrew Huberman (2h 42m 4s):
And so much of what we talked about today is actionable in the sense that many people are already doing certain dimensions of these things. Some are not, some are hearing about it and considering it, you've given us dozens, I've listed some out dozens of tools and considerations based on whether or not people are engaging in shift work or not. I think a lot of people are gonna realize that they're shift workers. Yeah. Even though they didn't think they were because of their nature of their habits now to light and to activity and so forth. I absolutely love the firefighter study because of its relevance to the general population. Also a nod, another nod to firefighters and shift workers everywhere. Thank you. And you know, I I think among the colleagues I've known for several decades now, you really are one of a very small few who've managed to do both animal studies and human studies, but also animal studies with a very clear eye and a pointer toward human health.

Andrew Huberman (2h 43m 1s):
And that's such a vital and rare thing, especially in this day of extremely competitive funding. So I wanna thank you for your time today for the knowledge you share the actionable aspects of that knowledge, the science that you're doing in your laboratory. We will provide links for people to learn more about you and of course to go to the app. Yeah. So people can engage in some of the science directly. And of course you have several wonderful books now that we will also link to, both of which I've read and are, are wonderful and particular the book, the first book, but also a book relate to diabetes. And so for diabetics and people interested in metabolic and, and blood sugar regulation, they're so yeah. On behalf of myself and my team here at the Huberman Lab podcast and all the listeners, I just wanna say thank you so much.

Andrew Huberman (2h 43m 46s):
Your time is valuable and the fact that you share it with us and educate so many people is really a gift.

Dr. Satchin Panda (2h 43m 52s):
Yeah. Thank you. And actually, likewise, there are very few scientists who have taken this leadership role that you have taken to come and communicate science to the public. It's not easy because sometimes you have to distill it down to simple sound bite to the point where the scientist and they'll say, oh, that may not be right. But we always have to keep in mind that we are always living in the dark area of sciences. Because the reason why I say that, this is not my quote, actually, this is from one of my scientific hero, Paul Simmel from Scripps <unk> says, think about it, 10 years ago, what you, what you thought was right and the best has already changedd.

Dr. Satchin Panda (2h 44m 38s):
But one thing is the circadian rhythm and aligning it to our internal clock, to our habit is very important. And as you mentioned, we have our, my security clock app, which is research facing, but we have also dis distill all of this down to five or six timing component. And we have a new app called On-Time Health or Get On-Time Health.

Andrew Huberman (2h 45m 3s):
Can people access that through the standard app stores?

Dr. Satchin Panda (2h 45m 5s):
Yeah. So now it's have a little, an an app store, Google, sorry, apple App Store. And we want to see how, because people always think about fasting, but as we discussed today, feeding, fasting or eating fasting and activity and sleep kind of interlinked. And we have to kind of balance both of this. So that's, that was the idea behind this on-time health program. And thank you, Andy, because what you're doing is immensely necessary, particularly these days when science is moving at a very past pace. There are a lot of results coming out.

Dr. Satchin Panda (2h 45m 46s):
Sometimes something can be very confusing and you spending your time to communicate science is exceptional. So thank you Andy.

Andrew Huberman (2h 45m 55s):
Oh, you're, you're most welcome. It's days like today where I get to sit down and, and talk to brilliant colleagues like you who are doing the important work that, that really matters so much. And so as you mentioned a moment ago, the, there's a lot of darkness and confusion out there, but thank you for being one of those who's shining light. Thank you. Thank you for joining me for today's discussion with Dr. Sachin Panda, all about circadian biology and time-restricted feeding. If you're learning from end or enjoying this podcast, please subscribe to our YouTube channel. That's a terrific zero cost way to support us. In addition, please subscribe to the podcast on both Apple and Spotify and on both Apple and Spotify.

Andrew Huberman (2h 46m 37s):
You can also leave us up to a five star review. If you have questions for us or comments about the podcast or topics you'd like me to cover or guess that you'd like me to include on the Huberman Loud podcast, please put those in the comments section on YouTube. I do read all the comments. In addition, please check out the sponsors mentioned at the beginning and throughout today's episode. That's the best way to support this podcast. On various episodes of the Huberman Lab podcast, we discuss supplements. While supplements aren't necessary for everybody, many people derive tremendous benefit from them for things like improving sleep, supporting hormones, improving focus, and so on.

Momentous (2h 47m 10s):
The Huberman Lab podcast is proud to have partnered with momentous supplements. We've done that for several reasons. First of all, momentous supplements are the very highest quality and are used with various sports teams in various studies through the Department of Defense and so on. And momentous supplements tend to be in single ingredient formulations. Single ingredient formulations are absolutely essential if you are going to develop the most cost effective and biologically effective supplement regimen for you, because simply put, they allow you to adjust the dosage of individual ingredients to alternate days that you take different ingredients to cycle them and so forth. In addition, momentous supplements are available internationally, which many other supplements are not. If you'd like to see the supplements discussed on the Huberman Lab podcast, you can go to Live Momentus spelled O u s live momentus.com/huberman.

Dr. Satchin Panda (2h 47m 56s):
If you're not already following me on social media, it's Huberman Lab on Instagram, Twitter, Facebook, and LinkedIn.

Andrew Huberman (2h 48m 3s):
And at all of those places, I cover science and science-based tools, some of which overlap with the contents of the huberman Lab podcast, but much of which is distinct from the content covered on the huberman Lab podcast. Again, it's Huberman Lab on all social media platforms. If you haven't already subscribed to the Huberman Lab podcast, neural Network Newsletter, it's a monthly newsletter that includes free toolkits for things like toolkit for Sleep, how to enhance the quality and duration of your sleep toolkit for focus, toolkit for neuroplasticity, toolkit for deliberate cold exposure, heat exposure, and summaries of podcast episodes. All of those toolkits can be found by going to huberman lab.com. Go to the menu, scroll down to newsletter, and simply give us your email. We do not share your email with anybody. And again, the newsletters and toolkits are completely zero cost.

Andrew Huberman (2h 48m 43s):
And you'll also find some PDF examples of previous toolkits. Again, that's huberman lab.com. Thank you once again for joining me for today's discussion with Dr. Satin Panda. I hope you found the conversation to be as informative and actionable as I did. And last but certainly not least, thank you for your interest in science.