0 (0s):
Welcome to the Huberman lab podcast, where we discuss science science-based tools for everyday life. I'm Andrew Huberman, and I'm a professor of neurobiology and ophthalmology at Stanford school of medicine. Today. My guest is Dr. Davidson Clare professor of genetics at Harvard medical school and co-director of the Paul F. Glenn center for the biology of aging. Dr. Sinclair's work is focused on why we age and how to slow or reverse the effects of aging by focusing on the cellular and molecular pathways that exist in all cells of the body and that progress those cells over time from young cells to old cells, by elucidating, the biology of cellular maturation and aging, Dr.

0 (46s):
Sinclair's group has figured out intervention points by which any of us indeed, all of us can slow or reverse the effects of aging. What is unique about his work is that it focuses on behavioral interventions, nutritional interventions, as well as supplementation and prescription drug interventions that can help us all age more slowly and reverse the effects of aging in all tissues of the body. Dr. Sinclair holds a unique and revolutionary view of the aging process, which is that aging is not the normal and natural consequence that we all will suffer. But rather that aging is a disease that can be slowed or halted. Dr. Sinclair continually publishes original research articles in the most prestigious and competitive scientific journals.

0 (1m 30s):
In addition to that, he's published a popular book that was a New York times bestseller. The title of that book is a lifespan why we age and why we don't have to. He is also very active in public facing efforts to educate people on the biology of aging and slowing the aging process. Dr. Sinclair, and I share a mutual interest and excitement in public education about science. And so I'm thrilled to share with you that we've partnered. And Dr. David Sinclair is going to be launching the lifespan podcast, which is all about the biology of aging and tools to intervene in the aging process. That podcast will launch Wednesday, January 5th. You can find it at the link in the show notes to this episode today as well.

0 (2m 11s):
You can subscribe to that podcast on YouTube, apple, or Spotify, or anywhere that you get your podcasts. Again, the lifespan podcast featuring Dr. Davidson, Claire begins Wednesday, January 5th, 2020, to be sure to check it out. You're going to learn a tremendous amount of information, and you're going to learn both the mechanistic science behind aging, the mechanistic science behind reversing the aging process and practical tools that you can apply in your everyday life. In today's episode, Dr. Sinclair and I talk about the biology of aging and tools to intervene in that process. And so you might view today's episode as a primer for the lifespan podcast, because we delve deep into the behavioral tools, nutritional aspects, supplementation aspects of the biology of aging.

0 (2m 54s):
We also talk about David's important discoveries of the <em></em> particular components that influence what is called the epi genome. And if you don't know what the epigenome is, you will soon learn in today's episode, coming away from today's episode, you will have in-depth knowledge about the biology of aging at the cellular molecular, and what we call the circuit level, meaning how the different organs and tissues of the bodies age independently, and how they influence the aging of each other. Today's episode gets into discussion about many aspects of aging and tools to combat aging that have not been discussed on any other podcasts or in the book lifespan. Before we begin, I'd like to emphasize that this podcast is separate from my teaching and research roles at Stanford.

0 (3m 35s):
It is however, part of my desire and effort to bring zero cost to consumer information about science and science related tools to the general public and keeping with that theme. I'd like to thank the sponsors of today's podcast.

ROKA (3m 46s):
Our first sponsor is Roca. Rocha makes eyeglasses and sunglasses that are the absolute highest quality I've spent a lifetime working on the visual system. And I can tell you that the visual system has to contend with a number of different challenges, such as when you move from a bright area outside to an area where there are shadows. You have to adjust a number of things in your visual system so that you can still see things. Clearly. One problem with a lot of eyeglasses and sunglasses is they don't take that biological feature into account. And you have to take off your glasses and put them back on, depending on how bright or dim a given environment is with Roca, eyeglasses, and sunglasses. You always see things with the utmost clarity. In addition, they're very lightweight and they won't slip off your face. In fact, they were designed to be worn while biking or running and various activities, but they also have a terrific aesthetic. So you could wear them to dinner or work. I wear readers at night and when I drive and I wear the sunglasses for most of the day, if you'd like to try Roca, sunglasses or eyeglasses, you can go to roca.com. That's R O k.com and enter the code Huberman to save 20% off your first order. Again, that's Rocha, R O k.com and enter the code Huberman at checkout

Inside Tracker (4m 52s):
today's episode is also brought to us by inside tracker. Inside tracker is a personalized nutrition platform that analyzes data from your blood and DNA to help you better understand your body and help you reach your health goals. I've long been a believer in getting regular blood work done for the simple reason that many of the factors that impact your immediate and long-term health can only be assessed from a quality blood test. And now with the advent of modern DNA tests, you can also get a clear picture of what your biological age is and compare that to your chronological age. And obviously your biological age is the important one because it predicts how long you will live. And it's the one that you can control. The great thing about inside tracker is that compared to a lot of other DNA tests and blood tests out there is that with inside tracker, you don't just get your numbers back or the levels of various hormones, metabolic factors, blood lipids, et cetera, but it also offers clear directives to lifestyle factors, nutritional factors, and supplementation that you can use in order to get the numbers into the ranges that are best for you and for your health. If you'd like to try inside tracker, you can go to inside tracker.com/huberman to get 25% off any of inside trackers plans. Just use the code Huberman at checkout. Again, that's inside tracker.com/huberman to get twenty-five percent off any of inside tracker's plans.

Magic Spoon Cereal (6m 9s):
Today's episode is also brought to us by magic spoon. Magic spoon is a zero sugar grain-free keto friendly cereal. Now I don't follow a strictly ketogenic diet. What works best for me is to eat according to my desire, to be alert at certain times of day and to be sleepy at other times of day. So for me, that means fasting until about 11:00 AM or 12 noon most days. And then my lunch is typically a low carb, keto, ish lunch, maybe a small piece of grass, fed meat, some salad, something of that sort. And then in the afternoon, I might have a snack. That's also keto ish. And then at night is when I eat my carbohydrates, which for me helps me with the transition to sleep and allows me to get great deep sleep. That's what works for me. What that means is then the afternoon I'm craving a snack. And the snack for me is magic spoon. What I do lately is I put in some Bulgarian yogurt. Sometimes I just eat it straight. Each serving of magic spoon has zero grams of sugar, 13 to 14 grams of protein and only four grams of carbohydrates in each serving. So it really matches that low carb keto ish approach, there's only 140 calories per serving, and they have a variety of flavors, cocoa, fruity, peanut butter, frosted. I particularly like frosted cause it tastes like donuts. I try not to eat donuts, but I do love the frost. And as I mentioned before, I lately mix it with yogurt polo cinnamon on there. I'm getting hungry, just talking about it. Now, if you want to try magic spoon, you can go to magic spoon.com/huberman to grab a variety pack. Use the promo code Huberman at checkout to get $5 off your order. Again, that's magic spoon.com/huberman and use the code Huberman to get $5 off.

0 (7m 42s):
And now my conversation with Dr. Davidson, Claire, thank you for coming.

2 (7m 46s):
Thanks for having me here. It's good to say that

0 (7m 49s):
This is Mati by the way that we're toasting 11:00 AM. Unlike other podcasts. We, well, I don't drink alcohol, so I'm boring that way, but truly thanks for being here. I have a ton of questions for you. We go way back in some sense, but that doesn't mean that I don't have many, many questions about aging, longevity, lifespan, actionable protocols to increase how long we live, et cetera. I just want to start off with a very simple question. I'm not even sure there's an answer to, but what is the difference between longevity anti-aging and aging as a disease?

0 (8m 30s):
Because I associate you with a statement. Aging is a disease,

2 (8m 36s):
Right? Well, so longevity is the more academic way we describe what we research anti-aging is kind of the same thing, but it's got a bad rap because it's been used by a whole bunch of people that don't know what they're talking about. So I really don't like that term anti-aging but aging is a disease and longevity are perfectly valid ways to talk about this subject. So let's talk about aging as a disease. When I started my research disease here, Harvard medical school, it was considered if there's something that's wrong with you. And it's a rare thing has to be less than 50% of the population. That's definitely a disease. And then people work their whole lives to try and cure that condition.

2 (9m 18s):
And so I looked up what's the definition of aging and it says, well, it's a deterioration in health and sickness and you can die from it. Typically you do something that sounds pretty much like a disease, but the caveat is that if more than half the population gets this condition, aging, it's put in a different bucket, which is first of all, that's outrageous because it's just a totally arbitrary cutoff. But think about this, that we're ignoring the major. Cause of all these diseases, aging is 80 to 90%, the cause of heart disease. Alzheimer's if we didn't get old and our bodies stayed youthful, we would not get those diseases. And actually what we're showing in my levels, if you turn the clock back in tissues, those diseases go away.

2 (9m 59s):
So aging is the problem. And instead through, you know, most of the last 200 years, we've been sticking band-aids on diseases that have already occurred because of aging and then it's too late. So there are a couple of things. One is we want to slow aging down so we don't get those diseases. And when they do occur, you don't just take a bandaid on reverse the age of the body and then the diseases will go away.

0 (10m 20s):
That clarifies a lot for me. Thank you. Can we point to one specific general phenomenon in the body that underlies aging?

2 (10m 30s):
Yeah. Well, th that's contentious because, you know, scientists like to come up with new hypothesis. It's how they build their careers. But fortunately during the two thousands, we settled on eight or nine major causes of aging. We call them hallmarks cause causes, which was a little bit too strong, but these, these eight or nine causes, at least for the first time allowed us to come around and talk together. And we put, put them on a, on a pizza. So everyone got an equal weighting, equal slices. And, but before that, by the way, we were trying to kill each other in the field. That was horrible.

0 (11m 4s):
Interesting that you guys work on aging

2 (11m 5s):
And trying to kill each other. Isn't it well kill each other's careers. I mean, I like to think I was fairly generous, but I was one of the kids and the old guard really didn't like the new guard. We, we just came along in the 1980s and nineties and said, free radicals. Don't do much. They're actually genes called longevity genes. And that caused a whole ruckus. And there was this competition for what never happened, which was a Nobel prize for this. And it just led to a lot of competition. I would go to meetings and people would shout at each other and backstab, it was horrible. But then unfortunately in the two thousands, we rallied around this new map of aging with these causes of hallmarks. But I, but I think that there's one slice of the pizza that is way larger than the others.

2 (11m 49s):
And we can get to that. But that's the information in the cell that I call, we call the epigenome like, well,

0 (11m 55s):
Well tell us a little bit more about the epigenome frame it for us, if you will. And, and then we'll get into ways that one can adjust the epigenome in positive ways.

2 (12m 5s):
Yeah. So in science, what I like to do a reductionist is to boil it down. And I actually ended up boiling aging down to an equation, which is the, the loss of information due to entropy. It's a hard thing to overcome. The second law of thermodynamics. That's that's fair, but this equation really represents the fact that I think aging is a loss of information in the same way that when you Xerox something, a thousand times you'll lose that information or you try to copy a cassette tape. Or even if you send information across the internet, some of it will get lost. That's what I think is aging. And there were two types of information in the body. There is the genetic information, which is digital.

2 (12m 46s):
ATCG the chemical letters of DNA, but there's this other part of the information in the body. That's just as important. It's essential. In fact, and that's the systems that control, which genes are switched on and off in what cell at what time in response to what we eat, et cetera. And it turns out that 80% of our future longevity and health is controlled by the second part, the epigenetic information, the control systems. I liken the DNA to the music. That's on a DVD or comeback disc for the younger people. We used to use these things. I recall. Yeah. And then the epigenome is the reader that says, okay, in this cell, we need to play that set of songs. And in this other cell, we have to play a different set of songs.

2 (13m 28s):
But over time, aging is the equivalent of scratching, the CD and the DVD so that you, you're not playing the right songs and cells. When they don't hear the right songs, they get messed up and they don't function well. And that is what I'm saying is the main driver of aging. And these other hallmarks are largely manifestations of that process.

0 (13m 48s):
Can we go a little deeper into what the, these scratches are? Is it the way that the DNA are packed into a cell? Is it the way that they're spaced? What is, what are the scratches that you're referring to?

2 (14m 5s):
So DNA is six foot long. So if you join your chromosomes together, you get a six foot post-sale. So there's enough to go to the moon and back eight times in your body. And it has to be wrapped up to exist in inside us, but it's not just wrapped up Willy nilly. It's not just a bundle of string. It's wrapped up very carefully in ways that dictates which genes are switched on and off. And when we're developing in the embryo, the cell marks the DNA with chemicals that says, okay, this gene is for a nerve cell. You, you sell will stay a nerve cell for the next a hundred years. If you're lucky, don't turn into a skin cell that would be bad. And those chemicals, there are many different types of chemicals, but one's called methylation.

2 (14m 45s):
Those little methods will mark, which songs get played for the rest of your life. And there are other marks that change daily. But in Toto, what we're saying is that the body controls the genome through the ability to mark the DNA and then compact some parts of it. Silence those genes. Don't read those genes and open others, keep others open that should stay open. And that pattern of genes that are silent and open, silent open is what dictates the cells type the cells function. And then the scratches are the disruption of that. So genes that were once silent, and you could say, it's a gene that is involved in skin.

2 (15m 29s):
It's starting to come on in the brain, shouldn't be there, but we see this happen and vice versa, the gene might get shut off over time. During aging cells over time, lose these structures, lose their identity. They forget what they're supposed to do. And we get diseases. We call that aging and we can measure that. In fact, we can measure it in such a way that we can predict when somebody is going to die. Based on the changes in those chemicals,

0 (15m 53s):
Are these changes, the same sorts of changes that underlie the outward body surface manifestations of aging, that most of us are familiar with graying of the hair, wrinkling of the skin, drooping of the, of the face walking around New York lately. It's amazing to me, there are certain people that seem to walk looking down at the sidewalk because their, their spine is essentially in a C shape, right? A hallmark, if you will, of aging, that most of us are familiar with are the same sorts of DNA scratches associated with that. Or are we talking about people that are potentially are going to look older, but simply live longer?

2 (16m 32s):
Well, it's actually, you, you are as old as you look, if you want to generalize. So let's start with centenarian families. These are families that tend to live over a hundred when they're 70, they still look 50 or less. So it is a good, good indicator. It's not perfect because you can like me grow up in Australia and accelerate the aging of your skin. But in general, how you look, no one's ever died from gray hair, but overall you can get a sense just from the ability of skin to hold itself up, how thin it is, the number of wrinkles that is actually, it was a great paper just came out that said that an AI system looking at the face could very accurately predict someone's age.

2 (17m 12s):
Very interesting.

0 (17m 14s):
So I started off in developmental neurobiology. So one of the things that I learned early on that I still believe wholeheartedly is that development doesn't stop at age 12 or 15 or even 25 that your entire life is one long developmental arc, right? So in thinking about different portions of that developmental arc, the early portion of infancy, and especially puberty seem like especially rapid stages of aging. And I know we normally look at babies and children and kids in puberty, and we think, oh, they're so vital. They're so young.

0 (17m 54s):
And yet the way you describe these changes in the epigenome and the way you framed aging as a disease leads me to ask our periods of an, of immense vitality, the same periods when we're aging faster.

2 (18m 11s):
Yes, yes. And this is something I've never talked about, at least not publicly. So this is a really good question. So those chemicals we can measure, it's, it's also known as the Horvath clock. It's the biological clock it's separate from your chronological age. So actually what I didn't mention is that when the AI looked at the faces of those people, they could predict their biological age, their internal age. So your skin represents the age of your organs as well. And the people that look after themselves, we can talk about how to do that later. But there are some people that are 10, 20 years younger than other people biologically. And it turns out if you measure that clock from birth or even before birth, if you look at animals, there's a massive increase in age on based on that clock early in life.

2 (18m 56s):
So you're right. That, so that's a really important point that you, you have accelerated aging during the first few years of life, and then it goes linear towards the rest of your life. But there's another interesting thing that you brought up, which is that we're finding that the genes that get messed up that get scratched that are leading to aging, aging are those early developmental genes. They come on late in life and just mess up the system and they seem to be particularly susceptible to those scratches. So what are what's causing the scratches? Well, we know of a couple of things in my lab. We figured out one is broken chromosomes, DNA damage particularly cuts to the DNA breaks. So if you, if you have an x-ray or a cosmic Ray, or even if you go out in the sun and you'll get your broken chromosomes that accelerates the unwinding of those beautiful DNA loops that I mentioned, we can actually do this to a mouse.

2 (19m 48s):
We can accelerate that process. And we get an old mouse, 50% older, and it has this bent spine kyphosis. It has gray hair. It's organs are role. So we now can control aging, the Ford's direction. The other thing that accelerates aging is massive cell damage or stress. So we pinched nerves and we sort of, their aging process was accelerated as well.

0 (20m 11s):
Yeah, the, this is more of an anecdotal phenomenon. It isn't anecdotal phenomenon, but this experience of in junior high school, you know, going home for a summer and you come back and high school in the U S usually starts eighth or ninth grade, or grade eight or grade nine for your Canadians. And then some of the kids like they grew beards over the summer, or they completely matured quickly over the summer. Do you think there's any reason to believe that rates of entry into and through puberty have, can predict overall rates of aging? In other words, if a kid is a, you know, a slow burner, right?

0 (20m 53s):
They, they basically acquire the traits of puberty slowly over many years. Can we make some course prediction that they are going to live a long time versus a kid that goes home for the summer and comes back a completely different organism or appearing to be a completely different organism? Like they basically age very quickly in the summer. Does that mean they're aging very quickly over?

2 (21m 15s):
Well, yeah. I don't want to scare anybody. Sure that they're there, there are studies that show that the slower you take to develop it also is predictive of having a longer, healthier life. And it may have something to do with growth hormone. We know that growth hormone is pro aging. You know, anyone who's taking growth, hormone, you know, pay attention. We know that.

0 (21m 38s):
And look at someone who's taking growth hormone. They often will acquire these characteristics of vitality, like improved a smoothness of skin, but their whole body shape

2 (21m 46s):
Change it often. Yeah. I mean, you you'll feel better, feel better for a short amount of time. You'll build up muscle. You feel great, but it's like burning your candle at both ends. Ultimately, if you want to live longer, you want less of that. And the animals that, that have been generated and mutants that have low growth hormone, not sometimes these are dwarfs. They live the longest by far a guy in my lab, Michael Bankowski. He had the longest live mouse, a mouse typically lives about two and a bit years. He had a mouse that lived five years and he gave it chloric restrictions. So fasting combined with one of these dwarf mutations, low growth hormone, I think he called it Yoda. But th this is, I know you look at who, who lives the longest.

2 (22m 28s):
It's the really small people. This is a bit anecdotal, but it sounds, sounds like it might be true is that the people who played the munchkins in the wizard of Oz, many of them went on to live into their nineties and beyond really? Yeah. Huh. Amazing. And there are some lower Lauren dwarfs as well. There are dwarf mutations in south America and they seem to be protected against many of the diseases of aging. You barely ever see heart disease or cancer in these families.

0 (22m 55s):
So I having owned a very large dog breed, a bulldog massive who lived a long life for a bulldog 11 years, but there are many dogs that will live 12, 16 years that are smaller dogs. Can we say that there is a direct relationship between body size and longevity or duration of, of, of life will this

2 (23m 16s):
There is, but that doesn't mean that you're a slave to your early epigenome nor have to your genome. The good news is that the epigenome can change. Those loops and structures can be modified by how you live your life. And so if you're born tall and I wasn't, and I wished at the time I did grow, but no matter what size you are, you can have a bigger impact on your life than anything. Your genes give you 80% is epigenetic. Not.

0 (23m 46s):
So let's talk about some of the things that people can do. And I've kind of batch these into categories rather than just diving right into actionable protocols. So the first one relates to food, blood sugar, insulin. And this is something I hear a lot about that fasting is good for us, but rarely do I hear why it's good for us. One of the reasons I'm excited to talk to you today is because I want to drill into the details of this, because I think understanding the mechanism will allow people to make better choices and not simply to just decide whether or not they're going to fast or not fast, or how long they're going to fast, I think should be dictated by some understanding of the mechanism.

0 (24m 28s):
So why is it that having elevated blood sugar, glucose, and insulin ages us more quickly and or why is it that having periods of time each day or perhaps longer can extend our lifespan?

2 (24m 45s):
Well, let's start with, with what I think was a big mistake was the idea that people should never be hungry. We live in a world now where there's at least three meals a day, and then we've got companies selling bars and snacks in between. So the feeling of hunger, some people never experienced hug during their whole lives. It's really, really bad for them. It was based, I believe on the 20th century view that you don't want to stress out the pancreas and you try to keep insulin levels pretty steady and not have this, this fluctuation. What we actually found my colleagues and I across this field of longevity is that when you look at fertile animals, whether it's a dog or a mouse or a monkey, the ones that live the longest by far 30% longer and stay healthy are the ones that don't eat all the time actually was first discovered back in the early 20th century, but people ignored it.

2 (25m 44s):
And that was rediscovered in the 1930s, Clive McKay did Clark restriction. He put cellulose in the food of rats, so they couldn't get as many calories, even though they ate. And those rats lived 30% longer, but then it went away and then it came back in the two thousands in a big way. When a couple of things happen, one is that my lab and others showed that there are longevity genes in the body that come on and protect us from aging and disease. The group of genes that I work on are called sirtuins. There's seven of them. And we show it in 2005 in a science paper that if you have low levels of insulin and another molecule called insulin like growth factor, those low levels turn on the longevity genes.

2 (26m 29s):
One of them that's really important is called cert one. And, but by having high levels of insulin all day being fed means your longevity genes are not switched on. So you're falling apart. Your epigenome, your inflammation that keeps yourselves functioning over time, just a grade's quickie. Your clock is ticking faster by always being fed. Okay. The other thing that I think might be happening by always having food around is that it's not allowing the cell to have periods of rest and, and re-establish the epigenome. And so it also is accelerating in that direction. There's plenty of other reasons as well, that are not as profound, such as having low levels of glucose in your body will trigger your major muscles in your brain to become more sensitive to insulin and suck the glucose out of your bloodstream, which is very good.

2 (27m 23s):
You don't want to have glucose flowing around too much, and that will ward off type two diabetes.

0 (27m 28s):
So hunger of course is associated with low blood glucose and low insulin. Do you think there's anything about the subjective experience of hunger itself that could be beneficial for longevity?

2 (27m 40s):
Yeah, I, I do though. You get used to the feeling of not eating, so I'm kind of screwed that way.

0 (27m 49s):
It's like cold water. You eventually

2 (27m 51s):
Adapt. You get used to it, unfortunately, but there, there are some studies that are being done at the national institutes of health that are able to simulate the effect of hunger, but still provide the calories. And it's looking like there's a small component that's due to hunger, but most of it actually is because you've got this, these periods of not being fed. And then the body turns on these defensive genes. There's a really interesting experiment that was published maybe a couple of years ago by Raphael de Cabo down at the NIH. What he did was he took over 10,000 mice and gave them different combinations of fat carbohydrate protein. And he was trying to figure out what was the best combination. And then you also cleverly had a group.

2 (28m 33s):
Well, two groups, one that was fed all the time or ate as much as they wanted. And the other group was only given food for an hour a day. And it turns out they ate roughly the same amount of calories, because of course in an hour they're stuffing their faces. It turns out it didn't matter what diet he gave them. It was only the group that ate within that window that lived longer and dramatically longer. So my conclusion is, and my son very similar to us, metabolically, I think that tells us that it's not as important, what you eat. It's when you eat during the day,

0 (29m 3s):
What is the protocol that people can extrapolate from that? Or maybe I should just ask you, what is your protocol for when to eat and when to avoid food? Do you fast, do you ever fast, longer than 24 hours? What do you do? And what do you think is a good jumping off place? If people want to explore this,

2 (29m 23s):
The protocol? Well, if there's one thing I could say, if I would say definitely try to skip a meal a day, that's the best thing.

0 (29m 31s):
Does it matter which meal or they're essentially

2 (29m 33s):
Equivalent? Well, as long as it's at the end or the beginning of the day, because then you add that to the sleep period where you're hopefully not eating.

0 (29m 40s):
I think that that's an excellent point. I realized it's a simple one, but I think it's the next one. One, cause I think one of the things that people struggle with the most is knowing how, when and how to initiate this

2 (29m 50s):
So-called intermittent fasting. And the middle of the day obviously is not tacked to the sleep cycle in the same way. So it's much harder as well for many people. Yeah. Yeah. Well, I'll tell you what I do. I, I skipped breakfast. I have a tiny bit of yogurt or olive oil because the supplements I have need to be dissolved in it. And then I go throughout the whole day, as I'm doing right now, here with this, this glass of water here, I'm just keeping myself filled with liquids. And so I don't feel hungry, be aware that the first two to three weeks, when you try that you will feel hungry and you also have a habit of wanting to chew on something that there's a lot of physical parts to it, but try to make it through the first three weeks and do without breakfast or do without dinner and you get through it.

2 (30m 35s):
And I did that most for most of my life, actually, mainly because I didn't, I wasn't hungry in the morning. Some people are very hungry in the morning and they may want to consider skipping dinner instead. But I will go throughout the whole day. I don't get the crashes of the high glucose and the low glucose that anyone who goes, oh man, it's three. O'clock, I'm going to need a sleep. If you do what I do, you will not experience that anymore because what my body does is it's it regulates blood sugar levels. Naturally my liver is putting out glucose when it needs to, and it's very steady and gives me pure focus throughout the day. And I don't have to even have to think about lunch. I'm just powering through at dinner. I mean, I love food as much as anybody. So I will, I will eat a regular pretty healthy meal.

2 (31m 19s):
I'll eat. I'll try to eat mostly vegetables. I can eat some fish. Some shrimp I rarely will eat a steak. In fact, my microbiome is so adapted to my diet. Now, if I eat a steak, it will not get digested very well. I'll feel

0 (31m 33s):
Terrible. If I don't eat a steak, I feel terrible. Well, we Argentine lineage, but we can talk about that. Some of that,

2 (31m 40s):
Well, everybody's different. I mean, that's the other thing, what works for me. It may not be perfect for you. And we do have to measure things to know what's working. I rarely eat dessert. I gave up dessert and sugar in my, when I turned 40 and occasionally I'll steal a bit of dessert cause it doesn't hurt if you steal it. Right. But other than that, I, I avoid sugar, which includes simple carbohydrates bread. I try to avoid, I've actually noticed, this is just a side note. I used to get buildup of plaque pretty easily. And every time I went to the dentist, they'd have to scrape it off. And I even bought tools to scrape it off. Cause it was driving me nuts. I don't get pluck anymore. And I think it's because of my diet. I don't have those sugars in my mouth that the bacteria feed on and then form the biofilm on the teeth, much better breath, by the way,

0 (32m 27s):
All that's a benefit. So you ever fast longer than this? It sounds like if you, if you go to bed, well you tend to stay up late. I know because I get texts from you at like two in the morning, the my time, which means you're out very late and up early as well. But assuming that people go to sleep sometime around 1130 or 12 plus or minus an hour and wake up sometime around 7:00 AM plus or minus 90 minutes, you're eating more or less on a, it sounds like a, some like 20 hours of fasting, four hours of eating or 16 hours of fasting and eight hours of, of food intake, et cetera. But do you ever do longer, fast, like 48 hours or 72 hours a week?

0 (33m 10s):
Long, fast,

2 (33m 11s):
Occasionally I do. So my typical day I would only eat within a two hour window. Just usually I meet it either eating out or so

0 (33m 19s):
You're 22 too.

2 (33m 20s):
Yeah. Yeah. But I love well.

0 (33m 23s):
And if you exercise, do you feel like you, then you just power through and maintain that fasted state?

2 (33m 28s):
Absolutely. I can exercise. And now I've already so used to it. I don't feel like I need food or for exercising. I used to, but have I gone longer? Yes. But not very often. I find it quite difficult to go more than 24 hours. But when I do it, maybe it's once a month, I'll go for two days after two and actually even better. If you go for three days without eating, it kicks in even greater longevity benefits. So there's a system called the autophagy system, which digests old and misfolded proteins in the body. And there's a natural cleansing that happens when you're hungry. Macroautophagy its name is but a good friend of mine, Anna Maria Cuervo at Albert Einstein, college of medicine discovered a deep cleanse called the chaperone mediated autophagy, which kicks in day two day three, which really gets rid of the deep proteins.

2 (34m 22s):
And what, what excites me is she just put out a big paper that said, if you trigger this process in an old mouse, it lives 35% longer. Wow. Yeah. So it's a big deal. If I could go longer, I would. But I just find that with my lifestyle and I'm going always day, you know, 110% I need to, to eat at least once a day. Unfortunately,

0 (34m 43s):
One more practical question then a mechanistic question related to this, the practical question is when you are fasting, regardless of how long I know you're ingesting fluids like water and presumably some caffeine I heard you had several or more or more espresso today, which is impressive, but are you also ingesting electrolytes? Like I know some people get lightheaded, they start to feel shaky when they fast. And that the addition of sodium to their water or potassium magnesium is something that's becoming a little more Vogue. Now. Is that something that you do or that you see a need for people to do?

2 (35m 19s):
Well, it makes sense, but I haven't had a need to do it. So I don't, I just, I drank tea during the day and coffee when I'm first awake and I don't get the shakes. So, you know, I don't fix, what's not broken. And I do add things to my protocol that I think will improve me and avoid those things. Of course that one. But yeah, because I don't have a need for it. I don't try it, but it does make sense, especially if you've had a big night, the night before, you'd probably want to supplement with that. But I think there's, there's a fair amount of good stuff in tea and coffee as it is.

0 (35m 54s):
Okay. So then the, the mechanistic question is you've told us that there's ample evidence that keeping your blood sugar low for a period of time, each 24 hours can help trigger some of these pro longevity anti-aging mechanisms and that extending them out two or three days can trigger yet additional mechanisms of gobbling up of, of dead cells and things of that sort. How is it that blood glucose triggers these mechanisms? Cause we've said, okay, remove glucose and things get better. You've talked before. Maybe we could talk more now about some of the underlying cellar and genetic mechanisms, things like the , but how our glucose in the sirtuin is actually tethered to one another mechanistically.

0 (36m 41s):
Okay.

2 (36m 41s):
There's a really good question that proves you're a scientist or world-leading one. So what we, what we've now know is that these longevity pathways, we call them these longevity genes, talk to each other. And we used to say, oh, my longevity, gene is more important than yours. It was ridiculous because they're all talking to each other, you pull one lever and the other one moves. And the way to think of it is that there are systems set up to detect what you're eating. So the <em></em> tunes will mainly respond to sugar and insulin. And then there's this other system called M Tor, which is sensing how much protein or amino acids are coming into your body. And they talk to each other, we can pull one and affect the other and vice versa.

2 (37m 22s):
But together when you're fasting, you'll get the sirtuin activation, which is good for you. And you you'll also through lack of amino acids, particularly three of them Lucene isolates in veiling. The body will down-regulate mTOR and it's that ups or two in down mTOR that is hugely beneficial and turns on all of the body's defenses, the pro chewing up the old proteins, improving insulin sensitivity, giving us more energy, repairing cells, all of that. And so these two pathways, I think, are the most important for longevity.

0 (37m 55s):
So interesting. You mentioned leucine within the resistance training slash body slash fitness community. Leucine gets a lot of attention because there are long-standing debates about how much protein, one needs per day and how much you want can assimilate at each meal. It makes for many YouTube videos and not much else, frankly. However, it's clear that because of losing's effects on the mTOR pathway, that there are many people, not just people in these particular fitness communities that are actively trying to ingest more leucine on a regular basis in order to maximize their wellness and fitness. And in some cases, muscle growth, but also just wellness.

0 (38m 37s):
But what I interpret your last statement to mean is that leucine because it triggers cellar growth is actually pro agent in some sense, is that right?

2 (38m 48s):
Well, it could be that's, that's what the evidence suggests. And again, it goes back to the debate. Should you supplement with growth, hormone testosterone? All of these activities will give you immediate benefits. You'll you'll bulk up more. You'll feel better immediately, but based on the research, it's at the expense of long-term health. So my view of longevity, the way I treat my body is I don't burn both candles. I have one end of the candle lit I I'm very careful I don't blow on it, but I also do enough exercise that I'm building up my muscle, but I'm not huge. Anyone who's seen me, you know, knows that I'm not a professional bodybuilder, but I tried to actually, here's the key.

2 (39m 32s):
And I haven't said this publicly, that I can remember. I post things so that I get periods of fasting and then I eat. Then I take a supplement. Then I fast. Then I exercise and I'm taking the supplements and eating in the right timing to allow me to build up muscle sometimes because you can't just expect to take something constantly and do something constantly for it to work. And that's, that's why it's taken me about 15 years to develop my protocol. And there's a, there's a lot of subtleties.

0 (40m 3s):
Yeah. It sounds like a very rational protocol. Does the name Ori Hoff Meckler mean anything to you? No. Okay. Just briefly. I discovered Ori Hofmekler about 15 years ago, he was a in Israeli special forces. He's now gotta be close to 70. Forgive me already. If that's that, that number is inflated. He wrote a book called the warrior diet, which got very little attention at the time. But what he said was when he was in Israeli special forces, they rarely ate more than once per day. And sometimes once every second or third day. And this is a guy who maintains in incredible physical stature, you know, he's very lean, very strong and very vital at, you know, I wouldn't say an advanced stage, but he's getting up there and he just seems to be getting better and better or a Hoff Meckler was the person who essentially founded if you will.

0 (40m 56s):
Although our ancestors founded to be completely fair, the so-called intermittent fasting diet. He called it, the warrior diet in this book didn't get much attention. But one of the things that you just said really reminded me of Ori. I sat down with him. I actually went to his home and sat down with him and he said, fasting is wonderful. But these pulses where you nourish the body or even slightly over nourished, the body provided they aren't too frequent, have a tremendous effect on vitality. And so I want to use that as kind of a segue to address this issue of vitality versus longevity, because here you're telling me, and certainly the evidence supports that, you know, growth hormone will make you feel better and younger taking testosterone or estrogen.

0 (41m 42s):
We should probably say there are women who are take hormone therapies later in life who take estrogen. They experienced a strong increase in vitality if it's done correctly, but there is a, an effect of aging, the body more rapidly. It's sort of a second puberty if you will, but this idea of restriction and then pulsing, not necessarily feast and famine, but certainly famine and feast and lowercase letters re there really seems to be something about that. So at a cellular level, like we'd kind of go back to M tour and the . How do you think that the cells might be reacting to this kind of lowercased feast and upper case famine type protocol?

0 (42m 28s):
Right?

2 (42m 30s):
Well, the, the pulsing, I think is what you want to do is to get the cells to be proceeding adversity. Okay? Cause our modern life we're sitting around, we're eating too much. We're not exercising. Our cells respond. They go, Hey, everything's cool, no problem. And they become relaxed and they're own turn on their defenses. And we age rapidly. We can see it in the clock. People who exercise and eat less, have a slower ticking clock. It's a fact, but my protocol is different than most people's because I am pulsing it. Now, first of all, let's get to, why did I even think that might be possible? Because I didn't read the warrior diet.

2 (43m 12s):
What I found in my research was that if we gave her his virtual, this red wine molecule that became well known in the two thousands. If we gave it to mice, their whole lifespan, they were protected against a high-fat diet, which we call the Western diet. They had lean organs. They live slightly longer, but not a lot. And if we gave them a high-fat diet without resveratrol, they actually lived a lot shorter. So it was virtual protected them against the effect diet. We gave it to them on a normal diet. They just ate it when they wanted. And there wasn't much effect. This is, what's not known though. It's in the supplemental data of the paper that nobody ever reads.

2 (43m 54s):
The mice that were given resveratrol every second day on a normal diet live dramatically longer than any other group. So people out there, you know, my, my critics say, or is virtual. Didn't extend the lifespan of mice on a normal diet. Therefore it's not aging. It's just protecting against a high-fat diet. Well, look at the supplemental data, please. If you give it to the mice every other day, we had mice living over three years.

0 (44m 20s):
Wow. That's a long time. I've got many, many mice in my owner ownership at my lab at Stanford. And that's a very long life for a male.

2 (44m 29s):
It was by far. And so it was a long life span extension. And what that told me is that probably you don't want to be taking a supplement every day. You can take it either every other day or give your body a rest. And I do the same with my meals. I rest during the day. And then I give a nutritious dinner to my body and then give it a rest, same with exercise. And then I try to time it because there are times when I'm taking the drug Metformin, which mimics low energy. For those of you who don't know, Metformin is a drug given to type two diabetics to bring down their blood sugar levels. But it's been found that looking at tens of thousands of veterans and all those, that those two types of diabetics live longer than people that don't even get type two diabetes.

2 (45m 12s):
So it's a longevity drug right now. You have to get it from your doctor in the U S and most other countries. You can just get it over the counter and you protected. It looks like based on epidemiological data, cancer, heart disease for LT. What else? Dementia. So I take Metformin. In addition, you take Metformin end you're fasting each day. So when do you take it relative to the fasting? Yeah. I always take Metformin in the morning, along with the resveratrol because for a number of reasons, but mainly because my body responds better and I've been measuring my body for 12, 13 years.

2 (45m 56s):
But here's the thing. If I'm going to exercise that day, I will skip the Metformin. And a lot of people who are, who do pay attention to this, this kind of thing, think that they should stop taking Metformin because they're never going to get muscle or it's going to affect their ability to build up muscle. But that's not true what Metformin does too. It actually just reduces the, your ability to have stamina because it's inhibiting your body's ability to make energy. And so what happens is when you're on Metformin, you do fewer reps. But guess what? Those muscles that you do build up on Metformin, have the same strength and have much lower inflammation and other markers of aging.

2 (46m 38s):
You just won't have that extra 5% size of muscles. So if you want large muscles, don't take Metformin and you'll be fine during your exercise. But for me, I, I'm not trying to get giant. I want strong muscles and I wanna live longer and healthier. So I'm, I just try to time it so that I get the most reps out of my exercise regime, but sometimes in scientific literature, it's worth bringing this up. If there's a 5% difference in a graph, then either the press release or some reporter will say, oh my goodness, big difference, 5% contact Metformin during exercise.

2 (47m 18s):
That's the headline. And then you go in and it's barely significant. And the graph is distorted because they've changed the axes to make it look bigger. And you know, now it's become a myth that Metformin greatly inhibits our ability to exercise, which is not true interest, but in an abundance of caution, I, I skipped my Metformin on days. I'm going to exercise. And not only that, I'm one of the 20% of people that has a stomach sensitivity to it. So if I'm not feeling great that day, I don't take it either.

0 (47m 45s):
You mentioned Metformin is available only by prescription from a doctor, at least in the U S berberine is this substance that comes from tree Barco. I also learned about many years ago from Ori. He said, if ever, I'm going to overeat like a Thanksgiving meal or something, I take berberine. This was his, those were his words. And I tried it. And what's remarkable about berberine is that you can eat enormous quantities of food and not feel as if you've eaten enormous quantities of food. I'm not necessarily recommending people do this. But what I noticed was if I took berberine, which my understanding is it works very similarly to Metformin works on the amp K pathway and the mTOR pathway, et cetera, that if I didn't ingest food in particular carbohydrates, I would feel a little dizzy and kind of get a headache, like almost hypoglycemic.

0 (48m 35s):
What are your thoughts on berberine as an alternative to Metformin? And are there any cautionary notes? I mean, obviously people should talk to their doctor before adding or subtracting anything from their life, including breath order, anything that that comes up. But with all of that set aside, what are your thoughts about berberine and timing of, of low blood sugar and, and these sorts of things? Right.

2 (48m 58s):
Well, before I had access to Metformin, I was taking berberine. It's often known as the poor man's Metformin

0 (49m 5s):
That he just

2 (49m 6s):
Called me poor. W w women can take it too. So the, the thing with berberine and we started it in my lab is effective at boosting energetics in the body, just like a and PK and Metformin does. And we've actually given it to rats and mice and seen that they are very healthy, especially on a high-fat diet. So I, I think it's, it's likely to be good. There are some human studies that exist, clinical trials showing that it increases insulin sensitivity. You have to take high doses. Yeah.

0 (49m 34s):
Which is a good thing, right? Yeah. I think when people hear insulin sensitivity, sometimes people think, oh, well that's bad, right? No, but you want your cells to be insulin sensitive. You don't want a lot of blood sugar floating around that can't be sequestered in.

2 (49m 45s):
Exactly. So this is <em></em> type two diabetes. And so th this berberine does have wonderful effects on the metabolism of animals and in some clinical trials on dozens of people it's been tested now, there's, there's one cautionary tale, which just came up, Matt cable lines, lab published that berberine reduced the lifespan of worms, but I'm not sure worms Trump human clinical trials at this point. So I'm not in my opinion,

0 (50m 13s):
No disrespect to my C elegans colleagues or my, or rather my colleagues that work on CLA

2 (50m 18s):
Well, what I like to do is to give all the information, people can decide what they want, but I would say based on the warm data, I wouldn't panic just yet. I think berberine has been shown to be really safe in humans.

0 (50m 30s):
I mentioned resveratrol think now would be a great time to talk a little bit about protocols for resveratrol, grape seed extract, et cetera. Let's start with the, the obvious one that I know you get a lot, but for the record, can't I just drink red wine and get enough resveratrol. Okay.

2 (50m 48s):
You can try you. You need to drink about 200 glasses a day.

0 (50m 52s):
So I, there it's been tried.

2 (50m 54s):
There are some, and I, I drank a glass of red wine a day if I get the chance, but any more than that, it's a lot of calories and your liver will get fatty and it's all bad. So, I mean, realistically, you can only get the thousand milligrams that I take a day from a supplement. That's pure. Now there are a lot of people selling resveratrol. If it's not light gray or white in color, throw it away. The brown stuff has gone bad or is contaminated. And the contaminated stuff be where it'll cause diarrhea, but regular is virtual should not do that. So a thousand

0 (51m 29s):
Milligrams per day is what you do. Yeah. And

2 (51m 32s):
I had it for about 15 years now.

0 (51m 35s):
And you ingest that with some fatty substance, like olive oil or yogurt, is that right?

2 (51m 41s):
Yeah. You have to, and other, other supplements course attend curcumin. This, these are crunchy things. There's not going to get through your gut. And I'm not just making this up. I always base my statements on human studies. So we've done a lot of studies on resveratrol as have others since, and we know that from, we found out early, I was one of the first people to take a high dose for his virtual. And when, when we included it with food, the levels in my blood went out five fold. And so you want to have something in there. If you just drink it with water, it's not going to get through. And unfortunately, some people have done clinical trials without even thinking that they might need to dissolve it in something. So

0 (52m 19s):
Are you taking this all at once in the morning and chasing it with some olive oil or are you dissolving it in yogurt? What's the, what's the specific protocol. Yeah.

2 (52m 27s):
Yeah. I've been improving perfecting what I do for about 10 years. I would take some Greek yogurt, a couple of spoonfuls, put the resveratrol on there, mix it around, make sure it's dissolved and put that in my mouth and swallow that these days, what I like to do, because I've realized that olive oil and particularly oleic acid, one of the mono unsaturated, fatty acids is also an activator of the sirtuin defenses. So I'm trying to ingest more or like acid. So I switched to olive oil. What I do is I put a couple of teaspoons of olive oil in a glass mix around the resveratrol and maybe some course say course, Satan, a similar molecule, make sure it's dissolved.

2 (53m 9s):
I put a little bit of vinegar. And if I have a basil leaf, I'll put that in. And it's like drinking some salad dressing. And it's great. Delicious.

0 (53m 20s):
That raises a question that I want to ask before we get to NMN and, and vitamin B3, which is by doing that, do you think that it breaks your fast? And I want to just frame this question of breaking the fast in it in a more general scientific theme. And I'd love your thoughts on this. One of the questions I get asked all the time is does ingesting blank break the fast, does eating this or drinking this coffee? You know, if I walk in the room and someone else's eating a cracker, does it break my fast? You know, people get pretty extreme with this. My sense and please tell me if I'm wrong, but my sense is that it depends on the context of what you did the night before, whether or not you're diabetic, lots of things.

0 (54m 5s):
So for instance, if I eat an enormous meal at midnight, go to sleep, wake up at 6:00 AM. I could imagine that black coffee or coffee with a little bit of cream might quote unquote, break my fast, but the body doesn't have a breaking. The fast switch. The body only speaks in the language of glucose and PK inventory, et cetera. So do you worry that ingesting these calories is going to quote unquote break your fast and more generally? How do you think about the issue of whether or not you're fasting enough to get these positive effects? Because not everybody can manage on just water or just tea, or we should say not everybody is willing to manage on just water, just you for certain part of the day.

2 (54m 47s):
Well, my first answer is not scientific. It's philosophical. If you don't enjoy life, what's the point. And so I I'd like a cup of coffee in the morning, a little bit of milk, spoonful of yogurt. It's not going to kill me. Olive oil doesn't have protein or carbs in it, not many. And so I'm probably not affecting those longevity pathways negatively, but without that, first of all, I wouldn't enjoy my life as much second. Well, the olive oil isn't is not as great as the yoga, but I'm trying to optimize and there's no perfect solution to what we're doing. And we're still learning. We don't know what's, what's optimal for me, let alone everybody else. But I I'm with you.

2 (55m 27s):
I don't believe that taking a couple of spoonfuls of something, unless it's high fructose corn syrup is going to hurt you because I've now got the rest of the day till about eight, 9:00 PM of not eating anything. And that I forgive myself for that. And that there's a really good point here. You and I were discussing this earlier. The point about doing this is that you try to do your best. If you go from regular living to donate the whole day, you're going to fail like quitting smoking, cold Turkey. It's easier to chew gum and stick the patch on because your body has to get used to all sorts of habits. And it's social, it's physical, putting stuff in your mouth, chewing, not just the low blood sugar levels and your brain will fight it.

2 (56m 12s):
Your limbic system is going to go, Hey, do it, do it, do it. And you're going to have to fight it once. But once you get through it, you'll be better, but you do it in stages. Do breakfast first, then do small lunch and then eventually cut lunch out. Don't go cold Turkey because everyone knows. It's a fact that if you try to do a strict diet right out of the gates, they'll almost always fail.

0 (56m 36s):
No, I think that captures the essence of, of fasting rationally in a irrational approach to, to supplementation very well along the lines of supplementation. What about NM, N and R and B3? Niacin? What, how does one, I want to know what you do. I also want to know what I should do, and I think most people want to know what they should do. I mean, these are molecules that impact the sirtuin pathway impact that the pathways that control aging or rates of aging in the epigenome, how do they do that? And how does one incorporate that into a supplementation protocol?

0 (57m 17s):
Should they choose to do that? All right,

2 (57m 19s):
Well, disclaimer is I don't recommend anything, but I talk about what I do. So a bit of scientific background, these are two in genes that we discovered first in yeast cells when I was at MIT and then in animals, as I moved to Harvard in the two thousands. And one of my, one of my first postdocs, actually, literally my first postdoc Haim Cohen published a great paper just a couple of months ago and found that turning on the sirtuin six gene, maybe the seven number six gene is very potent. It extended the lifespan dramatically of mice that he engineered both males and females, which is great. So what you want to do is so naturally boost the activity of these sort of tunes. They are genes, but they also make proteins.

2 (58m 1s):
That's what genes typically make are in code. And then those proteins take care of the body in many different ways as we've discussed. So how do you turn on these genes and make the proteins they make even more active? You want to rev up that system. So exercise will do it. Fasting will do it. What about supplementation? Well, the first activator of the, to ones that we discovered that acts on the enzyme to make it do a better job of cleaning up the body and protecting was the . We looked at thousands of different molecules, eventually tens of thousands. And the one that was the best was resveratrol in the dish. And then we gave it to little organisms, worms, and then flies in mice, eventually humans.

2 (58m 42s):
And we saw that it activated that enzyme. So resveratrol is one way to activate it. And you can think of it as the accelerator pedal on a car. It revs it up, but there's something else that the sirtuins need to work. And that's N a D and is a really small molecule, little chemical in the body that we need for life. It's used by the body for chemical reactions, 400 different reactions in the body. And without it you're dead within seconds, you need NAD. The problem that we've seen is that NAD levels decline as you become obese, as you get older, if you don't ever get hungry and the body not only doesn't make enough of it, it's chewing it up as well.

2 (59m 24s):
There's an enzyme called CD 38 that Eric Verdin over at UCF showed choose up. Now, he's now at the buck Institute in California, choose up NAD as you get older. So it's a double whammy. You don't make as much chew it up, which is really bad because what we've shown in my lab. And so have others is that NAD levels are really important for keeping those sort of two and defenses at a useful level. And you can give a lot of resveratrol, but if you don't have the fuel, you're only basically accelerating a car that doesn't have enough gas. So you want to do both. And that's what I do. I take a precursor to NAD called NMN and the body uses that to make the NAD molecule in one step.

2 (1h 0m 5s):
And so I know from measuring dozens of human beings, that if you take an, a man for the time period that I do, I've been taking it for years. But if you take it for about two weeks, you'll double on average, double your NAD levels in the blood. Okay? That's not public information. That's from clinical trials that are not yet published over the last two years. There are other ways to increase NAD levels in someone like me, who's getting older. I'm 52. Now you can take NR, which is used to make an amend, which is used to make NAD and both NMN and NR are sold by companies in the U S and our is lax, the phosphate phosphates, small chemical, the body needs.

2 (1h 0m 52s):
You've probably heard of the atom phosphorus. Let's go back one step. How do you make NR? And R it gets made from vitamin B3. Often. You can also find it in milk and other foods, but sometimes people ask me, why don't you just take vitamin B3? And won't that just force the body to make NAD? And the answer is no, it doesn't work very well. We know this just by doing the experiment, but the reason I think is is that NAD is a, I said, it's a small molecule, but relative to vitamin B3, it's big. It's got those phosphates on there. It's got a sugar, it's got the NIC, the vitamin B attached.

2 (1h 1m 33s):
So you've got all these components that come together to make this very complicated little molecule called NAD. And you, when you give NMN, it contains all three components that the body needs to make an ID. If you give NR or just vitamin B3, which is an even smaller molecule, the body has to find these other components from somewhere else. So where do you get phosphate while body needs it for DNA, it needs it for bones. So high doses of something that requires additional phosphate makes me a little concerned. And we have compared NMN and NR head-to-head in mouse studies, for instance, and NMN, we've shown in a cell paper a few years ago, makes mice run further old mice can run 50% further cause they had better blood flow, better energy, and are at the same, did not do that.

2 (1h 2m 20s):
In fact, it had no effect. I see

0 (1h 2m 23s):
Dosage was if I were elect to take NMN in supplement form to increase my NAD levels and presumably slow my aging. How much NMN should I take? What's the protocol that you do and are the various forms that are out there are some better, some worse,

2 (1h 2m 46s):
Well, I'm always happy to tell you what I do and what my father does. My 82 year old father, we, we take a gram of NMN every day,

0 (1h 2m 53s):
Grandma of resveratrol and a gram of NMN. Right, okay. Thousand milligrams.

2 (1h 2m 58s):
Now another, another important point, which is, I'm not the same as everybody else. I have a different microbiome age sex. Right. And so I've been measuring myself. And so I know if something's, or I think I know if something's making me better or worse based on measuring 45 different things. So I just want to be people to be aware that what I do may not perfectly or work at all for others, but I have studied, as I said, dozens of people who take NMN at a gram, sometimes two grams. And I know by looking at all those people that without any exceptions, that if you do what I do, your NAD levels go up by about two fold, one more.

2 (1h 3m 42s):
And so I do that every day, that thousand milligrams, now people sell it. Now I never get into brands and all that. First of all, I don't have the time to measure products. I don't know though. I should say, I do want to say I'm working on a solution for people to know what, what works and what's real and what isn't, but I'm not there yet. And in the meantime, I would say, if you do want to buy this, let's say you want to buy, NMN look for a company that is well-established that has high levels of quality control. Look for three letters, GMP, which is good manufacturing practices. And so that means they make it under a certain level of quality control.

2 (1h 4m 22s):
You're not going to find iron filings in there, and it probably has the stuff in it that they say it does. But so that that's the, that's all I can say right now. I'm sure something is going to be much more helpful, but overall make sure it's white crystalline in a men. And that it sh to me, it tastes like burnt popcorn. You

0 (1h 4m 43s):
Crack open the capsules and you'll take a little sample to make sure it tastes like popcorn.

2 (1h 4m 47s):
Well, when I, when I'm making my capsules, I'll taste it. And I'll, I do a lot of quality control on the stuff that I take.

0 (1h 4m 54s):
Do you take that gram all at once with the resveratrol or do you take it spread throughout the day?

2 (1h 4m 59s):
It's all in the morning for the, for those things. So it's the it's. If I take Metformin, it's an a man and there is virtual altogether. And there's a good reason for that. It's all scientific intro. I try to be the levels of NAD go up in the morning in our bodies. Naturally, our bodies actually have a cycle of NAD. It's not steady it's Circadia it's Acadian. In fact, NAD controls your clock. This was shown by shin M I and colleagues send us nice science paper about a decade ago, that if you disrupt the NAD cycle, which is controlled by the sirtuin gene that we worked on, that is what's telling your body, oh, it's time to eat. It's time to go to sleep. And if you take these, the NMN late at night, for example, you can disrupt your circadian rhythms.

2 (1h 5m 43s):
Interesting. Conversely, when I travel and I want to reset my clock to the time zone, I will take a boost of NMN in the morning and I feel great. Does it,

0 (1h 5m 55s):
This protocol for you, does it produce any immediate effects of increased energy, et cetera? You mentioned that one would, if it's right for them, would have to take it for at least two weeks to start to see the NAD levels increase. At that point, when a NAD levels increase, could one possibly expect an increase in overall energy focus, et cetera. I realize we're not making promises here, but I'm just wondering whether or not the only measure of whether or not this protocol is working is whether or not you die at age blank or blank plus 20. And of course, once there, you know, once you're dead, you can't really know if you would've lived longer, if you'd done something differently and vice versa.

2 (1h 6m 39s):
Sure. Well, there, there was a study again by Chena and my good friend at Washington university in St. Louis that showed that improves. Remember this insulin sensitivity, which is a good thing. So, but you can't know your insulin sensitivity unless you're measuring glucose, have a glucose monitor on your own. You have one on

0 (1h 6m 56s):
Right now. No,

2 (1h 6m 58s):
No. I used to, I learned a lot. Yeah.

0 (1h 6m 59s):
The last time I saw you had this thing, it like, it looks like, like a small leach, not a large leach and it, and it was measuring your blood glucose.

2 (1h 7m 6s):
They're very informative because you learn what your body reacts to. And grapes were really bad. Rhonda Patrick agrees with that, but the, the issue was, was what were, where we, Andrew,

0 (1h 7m 20s):
The issue is whether or not you can expect any immediate effects on energy, vitality focus, any just even subjective.

2 (1h 7m 26s):
Okay. So what do you feel is the question and anecdotally, because I've been taking this for a long time, if I don't take it, I start to feel 50 years old. It's horrible. I can't think straight, it may, may be placebo, but who knows, but what we're doing now are very careful clinical trials. We've done the safety for two years, and we're now treating elderly patients at Harvard medical school with some wonderful colleagues. And those people are actually going to be an currently in MRIs. So you can measure the energetics and the NAD levels in their legs as they exercise in real time. And that will tell us if what we see in the mice is increased. Endurance actually works. In the meantime, it's fun to talk about anecdotes.

2 (1h 8m 8s):
I have a number of athlete, friends, some of which have increased their lowered. Their time in marathons, for example, is a good friend of ours in our circle that is winning marathons at age 50 now. And he attributes that to the protocol that he's on.

0 (1h 8m 25s):
Interesting. I haven't started taking an amend, but I'm planning to do that when my next birthday arrives, which is in a couple months, but I do experiments on my sister and have for years, I have a sister who's three years older than I am, who is very enthusiastic about these protocols. And I'll tell you that after reading your book, I started purchasing for her and giving her an enema supplement and she claims, and I believe her. She has a quite sensitive system and she's very tuned into it. She feels far and away better when she takes it, as opposed to when she doesn't and I've done the control experiment of removing her, her supply, and then giving it back to her in this kind of thing.

0 (1h 9m 3s):
So that's my other laboratory. This is what younger brothers do. Two older sisters. I have a question about something that if it has no relevance, we can just treat it as a speed bump and then move right on. And the artificial sweeteners, these things that, or I should say non glucose, increasing sweetener. So you've got Stevia, which is a plant basically. And then you've got the sucralose and aspartame and all these things. There are, there is some evidence that I know we're both aware of. They've been publishing quite reputable journals, showing that they can disrupt the gut microbiome in certain cases in particular saccharin, the one that basically nobody uses anymore.

0 (1h 9m 44s):
And it's questionable as to whether or not Stevia has the same negative effects, et cetera. That's not what this is about, but in terms of the sensation of, or the perception of sweet taste is is that itself a possible detriment to these prolongevity forgive me for using the term, the pathways. You know, if, if I were to drink a diet Coke during a fast, am I somehow disrupting this? And I'm asking this question because I get asked this question a lot.

2 (1h 10m 12s):
Well, then there may be small effects. I don't think they're worth worrying about Joe Rogan laughed at me cause I was drinking a diet Coke. During the first interview I did with him, I will drink diet Coke. I've read the scientific literature. And again, it's this 5% thing that I think is blown out of proportion. If I was to put a number on it, I would say, if eating a high sugary meal or drinking a sugar filled soda, what does that 30 grams of sugar? Let's say that's a, that's a 10 out of 10 bad for you. A diet Coke might be a one. And if I'm, you know, which am I going to do? I could ever attend or a one or go without in my life.

2 (1h 10m 54s):
I'll do the one on occasion. I try to avoid them because I don't like the ones as much, but you can't say that sucralose is equivalent to drinking a sugary soda. There's just no comparison. And I think Sue, what is it Stevia? I do use Stevia whenever I can, because it's, it's a naturally sourced product. And I haven't seen any good evidence yet that it's bad for you. But I think a lot of this is, is overblown. And a lot of it's the media trying to give equal weight to stories. As you know, as a scientist, it can be frustrating when something's a 10 and something's a one and they're equated,

0 (1h 11m 33s):
How do I say this respectfully? I think if science journalists were required to post their credentials alongside their, their name, then people would take the articles into, with additional grain of salt, right? I mean, in other words, that I think that most the science media is mainly generated around two specific goals. One is to make people very, very afraid or get people very, very excited. And oftentimes the, the get people excited part is sponsored content. And I think that's overlooked in any case. Thank you for that. I want to talk about iron and iron load. We were talking earlier about ferritin and of course women, men straight.

0 (1h 12m 13s):
And so they, their iron needs are greater than people, men that don't men straight or women that don't men straight. How I don't think we can get right down into how much iron somebody needs because it'll vary person to person. But I was surprised to learn that iron is actually going to accelerate the aging process in various contexts.

2 (1h 12m 36s):
Well, th this is new finding a new finding out of Spain when all Serrano's lab has found that excess iron will increase the number of senescent cells in the body and senescent cells are these zombie cells that accumulate as you get older and they sit there and they cause inflammation mainly and also can cause cancer. And it's found that if you get rid of these cells or never accumulate them, you stay younger in, in animals. And there's some really interesting studies out of Mayo clinic in humans as well. So I am is a pro senescent metal. And so what I think is that if you're taking excess iron as a supplement, you're probably accelerating your aging process.

2 (1h 13m 21s):
The other thing that I found really interesting is I've looked at hundreds of thousands of people's metabolism and their blood biomarkers. I was one of the first people in inside tracker as a board member, and I'm necessarily a scientific lead guy. So I can look anonymously at hundreds of thousands of people's blood work. And we also know how fit they are, how old they are. Some of them are marathon runners. Some of them are CrossFit, and there's a signature of health that actually is different than your average person. Now, I'm not going to say bad things about MDs because a lot of my best friends are MDs. And I work with them at Harvard medical school.

2 (1h 14m 3s):
The issue though, is that with MD training, it's, there's a scale of what's normal. And if you're out of that normal range, something must be wrong. That's the paradigm that they work under. But first of all, everybody's different and you want to know their baseline and track people over years to know what's normal for them. And what I find for example is people who are really healthy and live the way I do and have a diet that's fairly vegetarian, but not strict, still have slightly low hemoglobin levels, slightly low iron, slightly low ferritin, but we have super mounts of energy. We're not anemic. And we're getting along with great in life.

2 (1h 14m 44s):
But a doctor who just looks at that might say, oh, we need to give you more iron. All right. So what I'm getting at is an example of, we need to personalize medicine and look at people over the long run to know what works for them. And what's healthy for them, for them and not just work towards the average human, but work towards what's optimal for human.

0 (1h 15m 5s):
I love that answer. You mentioned tracking and tracking over time. And this is a really interesting area that I know you have been focused on for a long time. I've been getting blood worked on about every six months. Since I, frankly, since I was in college, I just got, I like data. And I got interested in supplementation and exercise because it made me feel better, but also want to know what was going on under the hood. So you get numbers back, you get this hormone that hormone, this blood glucose measure, et cetera. How do you make sense of the data? I mean, what inside tracker is doing aside? How do you personally make sense of the data in ways that might differ from the way that a standard MD might look at one of these charts?

0 (1h 15m 45s):
Because the standard practice is to say, is it red, yellow, or green, right? Is it basically too high or too low? Is it somewhere close to the margins? Or are you okay? Are you in these ranges? Are there any things that you pay attention to that you think are particularly interesting for people to just take note of? I mean, we're not asking you to go against anybody's physician, but w what sorts of things should people start to educate themselves about in terms of what these molecules are on their charts, if they choose to get them, and what do you, what do you look at? Yeah,

2 (1h 16m 19s):
Well, there's a lot there. The first is that you should be tracking things because one measurement isn't enough, these things vary and over time, and you, if you can have a decade or more of data, it's super important, informative, as you know, well know as you know, so the, the physician, interestingly, my physician let's take him as an example. So he sees me, he says, how you feeling? I'm feeling great. Okay. See you next year. That's craziness. Anyway. So I say, okay, stop. Let's talk a little bit about,

0 (1h 16m 53s):
Yeah, educate you. That's what David tells us position. I imagine that the like 12 year old Davidson Claire says to a physician, listen, let's have a different discussion. Is that how it works? It is.

2 (1h 17m 4s):
He finds me pretty annoying as does my dentist, but so I said, stop, hang on. I've got this data. I've got the inside track of data. So I pull that up on the screen and I'm showing him my, the changes in my cholesterol and my CRP, which is inflammatory markers, you know, and we're going through it and you can see things change over time and, and I've corrected them as they go slightly out of the optimal range for me, which is different than what he would do, of course. But what was funny is that he says, this is great. I love this data, but I'm not allowed to get this because of course the insurance companies won't pay for it. So again, you can pay out of pocket. It's not super expensive. I would say, if you save a bit of money on, on a, on a coffee, you can afford this kind of stuff.

2 (1h 17m 50s):
But the main point is that doctors do like this data. It's just that they're unable to spend the money on every one of their patients to get it.

0 (1h 17m 58s):
Is there a code word that someone can use with their physician that will trigger a comprehensive blood test? I keep trying to figure out what's the code that one needs to ask or tell their doctor, like I'm feeling blank so that they get a full blood panel. What, well do you have to be hemorrhaging from the, from the gut or something?

2 (1h 18m 16s):
Well, I usually use the wth method, which is what the hell. And then he, and he says, okay, we'll do it. Okay.

0 (1h 18m 22s):
Because I think a lot of people out there thinking, look, I'd love to have blood work repeatedly over time, but that's hard to get for financial reasons. But also a lot of people just don't know how to approach the conversation. And this is one of the things that I, I hope that we can educate people on, you know, that they deserve to know what's going on inside their body and that it makes a doctor's visit worthwhile and that you don't have to feign illness in order to do it

2 (1h 18m 46s):
Right. Yeah. And a lot of people do. So I would say, if you, if you can't afford these tests, there are increasing number of companies that offer these tests inside tracker is one of them. And you just do it a couple of times a year at a minimum. And then you can share that with your doctor. If you can't afford that, then I would say to your doctor, here are the main ones that Andrew and David

0 (1h 19m 9s):
Do. We must, and there's an email that is something like five, five, five, or a phone number, rather it's five, five, five, five, five, five, five. I think if they have any complaints, they can just call that number. David will pick up on the east coast business hours and I'll pick up outside of those.

2 (1h 19m 25s):
But there was the main ones, I would say, your blood sugar levels. You want to do your HBO and see, which is your average glucose levels over the month. There's a CRP, which I mentioned for inflammation. Let's talk about

0 (1h 19m 36s):
A reactive protein for a second. Cause I think it's been shown to be an early marker of macular degeneration of, of a heart disease, a variety of different things. CRP is something that we don't hear enough about. I think maybe w what do you know about CRP that I don't, I'm guessing a lot, but,

2 (1h 19m 53s):
Oh, it was originally picked up as something that was associated with heart disease in the Framingham study. I believe it is the best marker for cardiovascular inflammation and is also, we use it as a predictor of longevity and its levels go up and with mortality. And so this an association, but there's enough data that I would say, if you have high levels of CRP, you need to get your levels down quickly. And the levels usually go up with age and with levels of inflammation. So the ways to get it down would be to switch the diet, eat less, try to eat more vegetables. You'll find it will come down. And there are also drugs that can do it.

2 (1h 20m 34s):
Anti-inflammatories can do it as well. But CRP is it's actually, HCRP, there's a high sensitive or HS CRP. Your doctor will know, get one of those readings. Cause if, if you've got normal blood sugar levels, your doctor or fasting blood sugar levels, your doctor might say, you're fine. But a lot of people have normal blood sugar, but have high CRP, which is just as bad for you longterm. And can predict a future heart attack,

0 (1h 21m 1s):
All kinds of heart attack. I want your thoughts on cholesterol and serum cholesterol and dietary cholesterol. I can not for the life of me get my arms around this literature. And even if I ignore all the essentially nonsense, that's out there in various social media groups, as saying cholesterol is the, is the worst thing in the world, or cholesterol is not, or dietary cholesterol has nothing to do with serum cholesterol and nothing to do with longevity. I can't seem to sort through the very basic data that essentially ask is having high levels of LDL going to kill me earlier.

0 (1h 21m 43s):
Should I be striving to always reduce LDL and increase HDL? Is that a reasonable goal? And if so is dietary cholesterol, the primary determinant of that. And just as a final point about this, I am aware of quite good data that shows that anorexics people that essentially no food, unless you force them to can often have very high LDL. So their dietary cholesterol is essentially zero. And so they're manufacturing a lot of their own. So realize this isn't your primary area of expertise, but you're a smart guy. You think about this kind of stuff a lot. W what do you think is going on with the cholesterol literature? And will we ever get to the bottom of this as a scientific and medical community?

0 (1h 22m 26s):
Because to me, it is rather perplexing.

2 (1h 22m 30s):
It is, but you can, you can get through the politics. I know a fair bit about cholesterol. Cause if it's in my family history and I was headed for an early death, my grandmother had a stroke 30 that's how bad I am in terms of my genetics. So I went on a statin and I know there are, there's a lot of people who say that statins long-term are bad. It might be associated with Alzheimer's disease. I I've been taking a and since I was 29 and that's, cause I forced my same doctor to give me the stat in the conversation with something like this. You're too young, to be honest. And I said, what you want me to have, have a heart attack before you give me something, give it to me now.

2 (1h 23m 12s):
So 29 I've been on a satin and my cholesterol was way up in beyond 300, which is a massive mess up. Basically my blood was creamy to look at. So I've now got my cholesterol down to low, low levels to what would it be? Good check on my inside tracker. But so my ratio of HDL LDL, which you want to be less than five is now two, and the LDL is below a hundred. So it's all good. And my I've measured my cardiovascular health with an MRI. I've got to move, you have my heart beating. I've still got a heart of a 20 year old. So that's working, I'm willing to forgo the risk that the statin is causing problems later because of my family history. But other people, I would say, be aware that Statens on perfect drugs, there were some interesting new ones.

2 (1h 23m 58s):
There's one called the PCSK nine inhibitor, which is a, I think fortnightly or every two weeks injection that blocks the release of LDL from the liver. And then that seems to be great for lowering cholesterol, but also has other benefits that might be prolongevity. And there were some people that I was just talking to her on the cutting edge of this and their doctors are trying them on this drug instead of the statin. So you can talk to your doctor about,

0 (1h 24m 28s):
Do you avoid dietary cholesterol for that reasonable? So red meat, butter. I mean, I have been a love butter. I love red meat who I have realized there's some people who don't, my cholesterol is a little bit high, but I'm working to bring that down a bit, although not my altering my food intake yet. But what do you think is the relationship between dietary cholesterol and serum cholesterol and what's what's going on with the liver? Why are anorexics? Yeah. You know, why is there a certain cholesterol so high when they're eating nothing? Yeah.

2 (1h 24m 59s):
A number of papers over the years that have been ignored and our friend Peter Attia brought to my attention recently, a new study that I think definitively said that dietary cholesterol has almost zero impact on blood cholesterol levels. Good. Yeah. So I'm annoyed because I've been avoiding eggs and butter for most of my life and I didn't have to. So I had, I have

0 (1h 25m 24s):
Eggs plenty of time or at least in your case. Yeah.

2 (1h 25m 27s):
So th that's the thing you can eat these foods that are ones banned, because it's very difficult to, to take cholesterol up into the body from the gut. And most of it's being synthesized in the body.

0 (1h 25m 39s):
Well, I'm just pausing there for a second because I think that it, it's what we've been told, six meals a day, you know, eat a lot of grains and fruits and this kind of thing, you know, avoid cholesterol. I mean, basically everything we learned in the eighties and nineties and early two thousands is getting flipped on its head now. But, and I think this is a very strong caveat that important to mention amino acids in particular, the amino acids that come from animal products, right. Seem to have some pro aging effect on them.

0 (1h 26m 21s):
Right. At least the way that I've heard you describe the, your diet and I'm somebody who enjoys meat. I like it. But so I'm by no means a vegan at all, but I've heard you say you eat mostly plants, but a little bit of fish or chicken or something of that sort of eggs or, but is that specifically to avoid excessive amino acid intake? Or is it something specific about plants that, that excites you with respect to, I mean, vegetables are delicious too, but what is it? Is it something great about plants or is it something bad about when I think of meat, I guess the biologist in me thinks amino acids. Right? I don't think top sirloin, I think amino acids, I think top sirloin as I'm eating it, but really what they are, are amino acids, including Lucene.

0 (1h 27m 7s):
Yeah.

2 (1h 27m 8s):
Well, there are two good things about plants and neither of them is taste for me. I would eat steak all the time. If I could. I did, when I was a kid, I'm an Australian, but plants have two benefits. One is that they're highly nutritious and they'll give you a lot of the vitamins and nutrients that I need. I don't take a multivitamin. I don't want to have the excess iron in my body. So there's that high density nutrition. So those dark leaves, if it's a spinach salad. Great. The second is that there is what's called Xeno hermetic molecules in plants. That terms, you know, hormesis is a term that I came up with with my friend Conrad, how it's, which means stress plants make molecules that benefit your health.

2 (1h 27m 56s):
I'll break it down. Xeno. It means between species and hormesis is the term, whatever doesn't kill you makes you stronger and live longer. And the idea is that when plants are stressed out, think of a great vine that's dried out and they're starting to harvest the grapes, which is typically how it's done. They are full with resveratrol because resveratrol is a plant defense molecule that I think is made to activate those sort of two and genes in a plant. So plants have sort of tunes just like we do, but by purifying or at least concentrating in a light proof bottle and keeping it out of the air, we stabilize the Xeno hermetic molecule, or it's a cocktail, not just one there's others in wine.

2 (1h 28m 37s):
We then ingest those and get the benefits of activating our own defenses because our food was getting stressed out. And by stress, I don't mean psychologically stressed. I mean, biologically stressed. And so I try to eat plants that have gone through a bit of stress. They might be brightly colored. They've had too much sun or got nibbled on by a caterpillar. So you go to places where it's organic or it's fresh local, and those are the plants that aren't perfect. And they probably have high concentrations of these molecules. And in addition, I also buy the supplements to make sure I'm getting enough of those as well,

0 (1h 29m 9s):
Which supplements mimic that

2 (1h 29m 10s):
Virtual will, there's another one called <em></em> or Kristen. Some people call it what you find in trace amounts in apples and onions. And we also showed back in 2003 that it activates or tunes as well, but others have, you know, 20 years later I found that it kills senescent cells or helps kill senescent cells. So it's a double whammy with that molecule.

0 (1h 29m 33s):
And are you actively picking out the peaches that looked like they were nibbled on by caterpillar?

2 (1h 29m 39s):
No, but I don't worry if they've been banged up a bit.

0 (1h 29m 43s):
What's the story with antioxidants? Are they of any value whatsoever because the way that you described them at the beginning, and what I've heard recently is that they are not all the rage for anti-ageing. What are they doing? That's useful. Should we be seeking out antioxidants anyway for other seller health purposes?

2 (1h 30m 5s):
Well, yeah, antioxidants are not going to hurt you unless you take mega doses. We do need some oxidants for our immune system. And there's even, what's called Mito hormesis, which is your mitochondria power packs need to have a little bit of these free radicals to be able to function. So you don't want to overdose on these antioxidants, vitamin C vitamin a don't overdose,

0 (1h 30m 26s):
But do it. You don't take a multivitamin, correct? Right. I think I'm going to stop after this conversation. Cause I've always just taken one for the kind of insurance purpose, which is a stupid purpose, not actual insurance, but just thinking, oh, you know, cap, you know, I'll top off on my ACB

2 (1h 30m 43s):
D LP out what I don't need

0 (1h 30m 46s):
That never bothered me. The whole expensive P thing never got that's that's that argument never got made because of that. A good vitamin is not that expensive. I just figured better safe than sorry, but it may be that it's detrimental.

2 (1h 30m 59s):
Well, it, it, it can in the case of iron, as we discussed in the antioxidants. So when I came into the aging field in the early 1990s, it was all about antioxidants. And we thought that enzymes by the name of catalyze and superoxide dismutase where they're going to be the key to longevity. It turns out that it's largely been a failure that giving animals and humans, antioxidants haven't had the longevity benefits that we dreamed of. And the main reason is that there's a lot more going on than just free radical damage. The epigenome gets disrupted, we've got these proteins misfolding.

2 (1h 31m 37s):
And so the problem really has been that we didn't realize that you need to turn on the body's natural defenses against that, plus a whole host of other things to get the true benefits. But I'm not going to say it's a problem taking it. You know, an antioxidant drink, pomegranate juice for one is full of good stuff, including Xeno hermetic molecules, but is a good case in point, which is when I worked on resveratrol as a longevity molecule, first, we showed it in yeast and worms and flies and mice. Before that it was thought that was virtual was good for your heart in red wine when you drink red wine, because it's an antioxidant. So then we showed that it extended the lifespan of yeast cells through this genetic pathway, the .

2 (1h 32m 25s):
And we then tested whether as virtual, if we change one atom to make it not an antioxidant, guess what? It's still worked fine. So it wasn't its antioxidant activity that was extending life span. It was its ability to turn on the yeasts defenses against aging. Conversely, when we gave the yeast antioxidants, they lived shorter. So yeah, that was the beginning of my transformation in thinking turn on the body's defenses. Don't give it the antioxidants.

0 (1h 32m 51s):
This is an opportunity for me to say something that I've been wanting to say for a long time, which is that what's so wonderful about science is that because the goal is mechanism, you can really start to understand, as you just described, w what actually mediates a process is very different than what modulates a process. I mean, if a fire alarm goes off in the building right now, it's going to modulate our attention. That doesn't mean that it controls our PR our attention. It's not mechanistically relevant. And so I think this thing about antioxidants is one of these cases. It sounds like where it's in the right ballpark, but until one really unveils the mechanism as you have, you can be one can, or an, a field can be badly wrong for a very long period of time.

0 (1h 33m 35s):
It sounds like the sirtuin is, and really getting down to the, the guts of the machinery of what causes cells to age is really what it's about zooming way out. What are the behavioral tools that one can start to think about in terms of ways to modulate these, you know, basically the way that DNA is, is being expressed and functioning. I've heard you talk before about hormesis of other sorts, cold exposure. We talked about fasting. We talked about exercise in broad terms, but what about any evidence? If it exists as to whether or not aerobic training versus weight training, these sorts of things.

0 (1h 34m 16s):
In other words, what are the sorts of things that people can do to improve the sirtuin pathway? And I realized that there are caveats. We can't go directly from a behavior dissertations, but in the general theme, what can, what can people do? What,

2 (1h 34m 29s):
Right. Well, we know that that aerobic exercise in mice and rats raises their energy levels and their levels of sir, one of the genes goes up to actually number one. And number three, what we don't know yet is what type of exercise is optimal to get them to change. We will learn we're doing work. Now it's revealed that we're doing work with the military in the U S to try and understand that kind of thing. And I'll always tell you and the public, when I don't know something I'm not going to extrapolate, but what do I do? I base my exercise on the scientific literature, which has shown that maintaining muscle mass is very important for a number of reasons.

2 (1h 35m 11s):
The two main ones are, you want to maintain your hormone levels. I'm an older male losing my testosterone and muscle mass over time. And by exercising, I will maintain that and have, in fact, I've I've, I probably haven't had a body like this since I was 20. So that's one of the benefits of having this lifestyle,

0 (1h 35m 30s):
Sorry to interrupt you. You know, we did an episode on hormones and there are data in humans that show that there are some males in their eighties and nineties where their testosterone is equivalent to the average of 25 and 30 year olds. I can get you that information is really impressive studies. Unfortunately, they didn't include a lot of information about the lifestyle factors, et cetera, but this idea that testosterone goes down with age. It might, it might be the trend, but it's not necessarily a prerequisite,

2 (1h 36m 4s):
Right? I, I believe in, in naturally increasing and maintaining these hormone levels and I've been measuring them for a long time. And I could see for me, my testosterone, testosterone levels were steadily levels were

0 (1h 36m 14s):
Going down, and then you got tenure and they went back up again.

2 (1h 36m 18s):
No, I actually became complacent. And, and it was the worst. Actually my age changed in the wrong direction after that, because I was relaxed, interesting and not worried about the future, but then I got serious. And I actually, according to the inside tracker, all the algorithm got my age down from 58 to 31 in a matter of months, that was a big drop. And I've S I've been getting steadily younger over the last 10 years, according to that measurement the blood to,

0 (1h 36m 46s):
Yes. What about estrogen? Because women are different in the sense that they do the number of eggs that they, and the ovaries change over time. Right. Do you think that they can maintain estrogen levels at, in over longer periods of time using some of these same protocols?

2 (1h 37m 4s):
Yeah. I get into trouble from a certain university. When I talk about this too much about estrogen, just about fertility and long story, that if I, if I don't want to get too much into the anecdotes, but I'll tell you the science, which is that if you take a mouse and put it on fasting or caloric restriction for up until the point where it should be in fertile. So that's about it at a year of age, a mouse gets in fertile female mouse due to due to

0 (1h 37m 36s):
Fasting, or do you just simply to age

2 (1h 37m 38s):
And due to aging due to aging, the fasting it's not extreme fast, it's just less calories on it. Then you put them back on a regular food and they become fertile again for many, many months afterwards. So the, the effect on slowing down aging, also on the reproductive system. Interesting. And so that I wouldn't say to any woman, I wouldn't think that they should become super skinny to try and preserve fertility. That's not what I'm saying, but these pathways that we work on these, so tunes are known to delay in fertility, in female animals, case in point I'm one of the lead authors on a paper where we used NMN remember, this is the gas, the fuel, the petrol for the sore tunes we gave old mice.

2 (1h 38m 23s):
One group of mice was 16 months old. Remember they came in fertile at 12, gave them into men. And I think it was only six weeks later. They had offspring. They became fertile again, which goes against biology at textbook biology, which is that female mammals run out of eggs. Turns out that's not true. You can re juvenate the female reproductive system and even get them to come out of mouth suppose as we call it. So that's a whole new paradigm in biology as well.

0 (1h 38m 58s):
That's super interesting. Sorry to interrupt you, but I'm reminded by a set of, of a set of studies that were done by your former colleagues is they're no longer there David Hubel and Torsten Wiesel my scientific great grandparents won the Nobel prize for discovering what are called critical periods. This phase of early development, when the brain is extremely plastic and a big part of their work was to show that after a certain point, the critical period shuts down, essentially the brain can't change or not nearly as, as much. And then people came along later and showed that you could open up these critical periods again, but there, he briefly, and it takes a very specific stimulus, essentially high degrees of focus, et cetera.

0 (1h 39m 36s):
However, there's a well-known phenomenon in this literature where if you take an animal and to some degree, this has been shown in humans as well, and you let them pass through the critical period, but then you essentially sensory deprived them. You take away experience, you close both eyes, you essentially reopened the critical period. So it seems like I couldn't help him mention this, that there's this parallel between what we're talking about here with fertility and neuroplasticity, where yes, there is a timer where certain things are available to the organism early in life. And then they tend to taper off. It's not an open and shut, but they taper off, but then a deprivation can actually reactivate the availability of that process.

0 (1h 40m 21s):
Forgive me. I just couldn't help him mention it, but it, to me, it, it there, so both of those things are associated with youth, fertility and neuroplasticity. And so I think that it'd be so interesting. I'd love to collaborate with you on this to explore how neuroplasticity might actually be regulated by these things like the sirtuin.

2 (1h 40m 37s):
Right. And, and this is true is do control memory in, in neurons as well. So what I think is really interesting is that what we're learning from work that you and your colleagues have done and in my lab as well, is that the body has remarkable powers of healing and recovering from illness and injury. And what we once thought was a one-way street. And you just can't repair. You can't get over these diseases. You can reset the system and the body can really get rejuvenated in ways that in the future will wonder why, why didn't we work on this earlier? W the future of humanity is more like us walking around, like Deadpool will probably be cleaner, and we won't smell as badly, but Deadpool, if you don't know, can get injured and just recover.

2 (1h 41m 23s):
It's very hard to injure this guy, and we're going to be the same. There were many species you cut off the limb, the limb

0 (1h 41m 29s):
Grows back. Salamanders are, yeah,

2 (1h 41m 31s):
We are now learning how to tap into that system. And in part, what we're doing is reversing the age of those cells and telling them how to read the genes correctly. Again, reversing the age of that epigenome. And when you do that, the cells, the brain, for instance, the skin, we did the optic nerve.

0 (1h 41m 50s):
Let's talk about those results for a second. Then I want to make sure that we return to some of these behavioral protocols. You have this amazing paper at the end of last year, cover article full article in nature, showing that essentially a small menu of transcription factors, which control gene expression, et cetera, could essentially reverse the age of neurons in the eye and, and rescue those cells against damage. Essentially allow blind mice to see again, and offset degeneration of, of these retinal cells, incredible paper, and such a boon to the field. Where's that? Where does that stand now in terms of human clinical trials? I mean, how did, what do you, what are you envisioning in terms of the trajectory of those, of those data from mice into, into human someday?

0 (1h 42m 39s):
Right.

2 (1h 42m 40s):
Well, to get to the point immediately were going to be testing the treatment on monkeys, just for safety reasons. And then the first patient should be done sometime in 2022, early 20, 23. And we're going to try to recover blindness.

0 (1h 42m 59s):
This involves making an injection of a, of a virus into the eye right there right now. There's no way that I am aware of to manipulate these transcription factors through a pill or a

2 (1h 43m 8s):
Or some other. That's what we working on in my lab at Harvard right now. So it will be a

0 (1h 43m 13s):
Combination of transcription,

2 (1h 43m 14s):
Pop a pill in the whole body gets rejuvenated by 20 years. That's what we're aiming for. Now. We do it with gene therapy in the eye and other places. So in the IES, it's single injection, the genes go into the retina and we can turn it on with a drug called doxycycline. And we do that in the mice for four to eight weeks, the eye gets younger. We can measure that cause you can measure the clock. And then the, the vision comes back in those mice. And I don't see any reason why it shouldn't work in people because it's the same structures and mechanisms that are on in the human as well. Now these in

0 (1h 43m 50s):
Is one injection. It's one. I should mention injections into the eye. Obviously nobody should do this outside of a ophthalmology clinic. And they're definitely by an ophthalmologist, but the, the injections into the eye are painless. If done correctly

2 (1h 44m 5s):
By the right person. It sounds dreadful, but it's actually, I've seen it done hundreds of times. I've done it thousands of times and it's not to myself, but to other creatures. And there's a way of doing this as completely painless to the person that it's a tiny, tiny needle too. But the great thing about this is that it's a one-time treatment. Those genes go into the back of the eye and stay there forever. And you can just turn them on whenever you want. So what we've found is you can turn them on in the mice, they get their vision back, and then you turn it off again. And so far, many months out the benefit has remained, but if it does decline, we'll just turn it back on and reset the system, rinse and repeat.

2 (1h 44m 45s):
So one day what's exciting is that we could potentially do this across the entire body and just take this antibiotic every five years and go back time and time again,

0 (1h 44m 57s):
And thinking about the body and what's going on under the hood. I'm amazed still that there isn't a simple, affordable technology that would allow me to just look into my body and see whether or not there are any tumors growing anywhere. I mean, it's not that hard to look into the body. I mean that the technology exists. Why, why hasn't anybody created an at home or pseudo at home solution, like a clinic where you can go and pay 50 bucks or a hundred bucks, and see if you have any tumors growing anymore,

2 (1h 45m 22s):
It's still expensive. You can get your doctor to try to get you in. There's some companies that offer blood tests that look at circulating DNA, that'll measure it. We're getting there. It's still probably five to 10 years away from being really cheap. You can do things like a colon cancer test at home. I think it's a hundred and something dollars. You, you ship off your shit, excuse my language. And they measure it. And they tell you if you've got colon cancer with high probability, I did that during the pandemic because I didn't want to get a colonoscopy.

0 (1h 45m 56s):
Is it more accurate or as accurate as a colonoscopy? I believe

2 (1h 45m 59s):
If it's close to being as accurate, the downside is that during a colonoscopy, they can pinch off the polyps that are looking dangerous. Whereas this obviously isn't that, but it's certainly easier to do. And my father who's Australian tells me that it's free for Australians. They get this test routinely.

0 (1h 46m 18s):
Interesting. I want to return to the topic that I took us away from. So I apologize, which is behavioral protocols. Do you regularly do the cold shower thing? I spazz cold water swims. Are you into that whole is,

2 (1h 46m 34s):
Well, you, you do know that I've done it at least once because we did it together.

0 (1h 46m 38s):
Yeah, that's right. Not the same bath. Just to be very clear, same sauna, different ice bath, the idea of Sinclair and humor and taking an ice bath together. It might warm some people's hearts, but just to be very clear, different, same ice bath, different different times.

2 (1h 46m 54s):
Yeah. Thank you for clarifying. Yeah, I don't do them regularly. I, I do try to sleep cool. I sleep better. Anyway. I try to dress without a lot of warm clothes. I'm here in a t-shirt and it's middle of summer, but in winter, I'll try to wear a t-shirt to,

0 (1h 47m 12s):
So you're challenging your system to thermoregulate right? Yeah.

2 (1h 47m 16s):
Right. I've got this hypothesis with Ray Kronos. We published what's called the metabolic winter hypothesis, which is few tens of thousands of years ago. We were either hungry or cold or both. And we really experienced that now. And so we try to give ourselves the metabolic winter and part of the problem, I think with the obesity epidemic is that we're never cold and cold. When you're called, you have to burn energy. It may be only slightly, but over the whole night, if you're a little bit cool, you'll actually expend more energy. So I try to do that, but I'm not a big fan of cold showers. The sauna, I don't have access to my gym as much as I did. So I, but I do want to get back into it. I used to do it regularly with my son and I posted on Instagram once that he could stay in there for 15 minutes and I could only stay in for about three anyway, long story short, I try to compensate with changes in my diet and exercise until I get back into it.

0 (1h 48m 7s):
You reminded me of something that I've meant to ask earlier that obesity reduces NAD levels and accelerates aging. How I mean, okay. So again, this is the, the, the scientist in, in the us, you know, so someone's carrying a lot of excess adipose tissues, subcutaneous and visceral fat. But why should that reduce NAD in any ways that are independent of effects on glucose and insulin. If it, you know, is there something direct about white adipose tissue? And the reason I ask this is not simply to dig into mechanism alone, but I think there are really interesting data. Now that fat actually gets neural innervation.

0 (1h 48m 47s):
I mean, it's, it's, it's not just a, it's a, it's not just stored fuel. It's stored fuel, that's acting as an endocrine organ, essentially. So, you know, why would being fat make people age faster?

2 (1h 49m 1s):
Yeah, that's a question that is so obvious, but so few people ask it. That's what makes you a good scientist? And so that we don't know, but I'll give you my best answer, which is that obesity comes along with a lot of problems that include a lot of senescent cells. In fact, if you stain old fat for senescent cells, it lights up. And when you kill off those cells, at least in mice, and maybe in humans, it looks like the fat is less toxic to the body. Cause those senescent cells in their fat are secreting. These inflammatory molecules that will accelerate aging. As we now know, you talk about the so two twins in NAD.

2 (1h 49m 44s):
So if we, if we just look philosophically at why this would be the so two hands only like to come on or get activated when the body needs is, is under adversity. And if a cell is surrounded by fat or contains a lot of fat, it's going to think times a good, it doesn't need to switch on. So that's the evolutionary argument mechanistically we don't know, but it could have something to do with the response to glucose, which then responds to the sirtuin gene, but that hasn't been worked out

0 (1h 50m 15s):
Very well. And there's is there any evidence that left in this hormone from fat can actually interact with the sirtuin pathway? I

2 (1h 50m 22s):
Don't recall seeing

0 (1h 50m 23s):
That maybe I could do a sabbatical in your lab and that'd be a fun one. Definitely because leptin during development is what triggers the permission for the hypothalamus to enter puberty, right? Yeah. This is why kids that, that eat a lot when they're young and get overweight will also start to go and undergo puberty more quickly, although they have reproductive issues later. Yeah,

2 (1h 50m 44s):
Yeah. We should study the hypothalamus together because the hypothalamus is, can control the aging of the body,

0 (1h 50m 50s):
The most interesting part of the brain, for sure.

2 (1h 50m 53s):
Yeah, absolutely. If you turn on the sort of one gene, this or two engine that we work on in the hypothalamus that actually will extend lifespan. Also, it's been shown by Duncan Chi at Albana Albert Einstein college of medicine. That if you inhibit inflammation in the hypothalamus in a mouse, it will increase or maintain the expression of what's called GnRH, which is the hormone that he found actually controls longevity in the mouse in part. And so keeping inflammation down in the hypothalamus is sufficient to extend the life span of animals. And I reviewed that paper for nature all about seven years ago. And that was the first demonstration that the hypothalamus is one of the leading regulators of the body's age.

0 (1h 51m 33s):
I find this fascinating GnRH for those of you that don't know actually comes from neurons in the hypothalamus, that then literally reached down into the pituitary and trigger the release of all the things that control fertility, luteinizing, hormone, follicle-stimulating hormone, et cetera. It's such a powerful set of neurons, and it's never really been clear what at a behavioral level triggers the release of GnRH. There's all the stories about pheromones and timers and puberty, et cetera, but environmental conditions and dietary conditions and behaviors that can control GnRH release, I think is an incredible area for, for exploration. I'd love to do that sabbatical by the way. I have a couple, well seemingly random questions, but I can't help, but ask because one thing I like to do is forage the internet for practices that at least more than a few people are doing, and then wonder whether or not there's any basis for it.

0 (1h 52m 28s):
You mentioned methylation as a detrimental process, the way it disrupts the epigenome and th the CD reader, so to speak. There are people out there who are ingesting methylene blue. And when I was a kid, I used methylene blue to clean my fish tank. And I love fish tanks. I know you're into aquaria, also a different podcast episode. We'll talk about aquaria, but why in the world would people ingest methylene blue? It meaning is their logic correct? And or is that a dangerous practice? I, I'm not sure I'd want to ingest methylene blue sounds like a bad thing to do it

2 (1h 53m 7s):
Stains your body. You're saying,

0 (1h 53m 9s):
Yeah, there was someone in my lab as a postdoc was using it to study a completely different process related to the blood-brain barrier and used to inject into animals and they would turn blue, but then again, people ingest, colloid silver, you know, they'll put in there, there's this, please. People don't do this. Or if you do, don't tell me, cause I won't like it. They people put it in their eyes and some people actually stay in their skin. They actually become kind of a silver purple brown color if they do it excessively. I mean, there's a lot of crazy stuff out there, but what do you think they're thinking with this methylene blue thing? Or should we just get them to a good psychiatrist?

2 (1h 53m 50s):
I don't know. For sure. I think methylene blue was found to extend the life span of some lower organism. And that's where it came from my recollection with

0 (1h 53m 58s):
The emphasis on lower organisms,

2 (1h 54m 0s):
Smaller organisms, I think doesn't, do you remember Andrew? Does it interrupt or interfere with mitochondrial activity and that might be

0 (1h 54m 9s):
Doing it.

2 (1h 54m 10s):
Yeah. We need to look this up and post it. Okay. We'll get to the bottom of this, but those methods let's talk about those. Yeah. Those methods have to be placed on the right part of the genome. They get attached to the right genes in the wrong genes. And if you have a lot of methylation, it's going to mess up the epigenome. Smoking will do that. A lack of exercise, all that good stuff. So what you actually want to do is you want to measure it and make sure what you're doing with your body is working. How do you know that if you do this or that is actually helping. And so you can, you can test your age. I could take a swab from your mouth and tell you how old you are biologically. And then we could work on trying to bring that down.

2 (1h 54m 50s):
And actually there were anecdotes. Now that people are reversing their age by a decade or more just by doing some of the things that we've talked about and some other cutting edge stuff that I'm going to write about. But yeah, but you have to measure stuff. That's I didn't want to forget to bring that up. I'm measuring stuff all the time. I have one test like you, I've got this monitor that stuck to my chest right now. That's measuring myself a thousand times a second and I measure my biological age.

0 (1h 55m 21s):
What's it measuring a thousand times a second show us of things.

2 (1h 55m 24s):
Yeah. So this, this little device is stuck here and it's for two weeks that you just recharge it. We'll send it back and get a new one. It's got a body temperature movement, heart rate variability. It's an FDA approved device. It's not a toy. It's not one of these recreational things. It also listens to my voice. Eventually will me, if I need a psychiatrist or if I'm depressed, it will tell me how I sleep, obviously. But when you put all that data together and it's individualized and anonymized, it can now tell my doctor in real time, if I've got a cold that needs an antibiotic, or it's just a virus. If I am suffering from COVID-19 or even if I'm gonna have a heart attack next week.

2 (1h 56m 10s):
And so these little devices are going to be with us all the time, instead of going to your doctor once a year, which is ludicrous,

0 (1h 56m 17s):
I have to ask you about x-rays because every time I go through the scanner at the airport, I think Sinclair would never do this. And the argument I heard you give about this before was a really excellent one, which is that, you know, it's a low level amount of radiation going through at the airport, but the argument is always, well, it's just as much as on the plane and your argument, your counter-argument I should say was, well then why would I want to do both? Right? Why would, so when you go to the airport, assuming you're not running late and you have to go through the standard line, what do you say to them? And do you say I'm David Sinclair and then they shuttle you to your own line. What do you say?

0 (1h 56m 57s):
You do say, I don't like this thing. Do you have to give them a reason?

2 (1h 57m 2s):
No, you don't. You can say, I don't want this and they'll get annoyed. Cause it's hard for them to pat you down, but you get a pat down and you're done as long as you're not in a hurry, it's fine. If you want to pay for the TSA, pre and America are the way to get around those scanners, you can do that. So I travel a lot, so it's worth it anyway, but I, I just go through the metal detector. I don't get scanned

0 (1h 57m 23s):
And the metal detector doesn't have the same, same problem. And what about x-rays at the dentist? Yeah.

2 (1h 57m 29s):
Well, you know, one x-ray is not going to kill you. Two's not going to kill you, but I'd rather

0 (1h 57m 33s):
Kill you. No, I'm just kidding.

2 (1h 57m 35s):
I try to limit it because it's cumulative. Right? And I went for six years without having a dental x-ray and then my last visit, I just gave up. I was tired of arguing with my dentist. So they gave me one, but you know, they've got led coats on and they put led all over your body. That's telling you something right there. And funnily enough, my teeth hadn't changed. Now you can balance that by saying, well, one x-ray two x-ray, three x-rays is worth it. If I have cavities and that's true, you want to know what's in there, but doing it regularly for me, I don't think it was worth it because my teeth are in perfect health. And I've always been don't have any cavities.

2 (1h 58m 16s):
Didn't have braces. They're fine. So stop scanning me. I mean, I know you have to pay for the machine, but you know, do I have a choice? Yes. So stop pressuring me.

0 (1h 58m 25s):
You know, who shared your sentiments about x-rays and the dentist in general? My apologies to the dentists out there was the great physicist, Richard Fineman. This is a story about him. That's not especially well-known, but he had very serious concerns. Health concerns about x-rays because he understood the physics and he understood enough biology that he was actually quite vocal about his dislike of dental technology and its dangerous. And he talked about some of that. People can find that on the internet, if they like speaking of people who are like fine men, who've been engaged in public discourse about science.

0 (1h 59m 6s):
One of the things that I appreciate about you, in fact, the way that you and I initially came to know one another is through your public health education efforts. So obviously we're doing this podcast, you've done the Joe Rogan podcast, Lex Friedman pot Friedman's podcast, skews me, Lex, I'm still adjusting that Lex Friedman podcast and many other podcasts, you renew amazing book. W what are you thinking these days in terms of what the world needs in terms of education from scientists, education, from MDs education in general, as it relates to these things, because, you know, I think if nothing else, 2020 revealed to us that there's a gap, there's a gap in understanding.

0 (1h 59m 52s):
And that the scientists too are guilty of not knowing what to do with all the information that's out there on pub med or elsewhere. I'm just, you know, w what are you thinking for yourself? And in general, I'd like to just know, what do you think the world needs there? Maybe we can recruit some more public educators. Yeah,

2 (2h 0m 11s):
Well, we, we, we've gone from a time when you and I were in college and young professors were the only way to get our voice out to the public was either through a newspaper or a very short radio interview, which for me was extremely frustrating because particularly the newspapers and my topic, every time was twisted into something that was not just embarrassing, but Harvard university used to bring me into the back office and slightly resign. How did you say such a thing? We're all gonna live to a hundred. I didn't say that. So we're now also in a world where we're overwhelmed with information, and most of it is wrong and anyone can pretend to be an expert.

2 (2h 0m 53s):
So we've gone from early days to now the future, and we're experiencing it right now. Thanks to guys like you, people like you is that the experts, some experts at small number who are brilliant and good communicators are talking directly to the public. This has never been able to be possible until this time right now. So another five years from now, and certainly by 10 years, I would hope that there are trusted sources of information of people who can not just communicate the ideas directly, but are able to talk about things that are going on that aren't even published yet to say, here's, what's really going on.

2 (2h 1m 36s):
And this is what the future looks like, but this is somebody like yourself. Who's spent their whole life studying a particular topic and knows what they're talking about. And this, this is all this also something that I think most people don't know that we scientists. If we tell a lie, we burst into flames, we absolutely cannot tell something that's untrue. And to the best of our knowledge, we say it as it is, because if we don't, we're beaten up and we all, we kicked out of the university. So the people who survive to our age, and I'm a little older than you. So I've survived a bit longer,

0 (2h 2m 9s):
But a lot younger inside. Now

2 (2h 2m 12s):
We have to measure you with my stories.

0 (2h 2m 14s):
I probably need a little help, hopefully

2 (2h 2m 15s):
Not too much, but measure that and, and we'll work on your eating, but this is really, really important is that w finally people like your are allowed by our universities to talk to the public. I used to do it with a real threat to my survival. People would look at me or he's a salesman he's promoting this and that it was seen as a real negative. I finally, I think we're in a world where it's not negative anymore. And the pandemic showed that we need to voices of reason, voice of voices, of fact, that you could trust. And you can see the popularity of your podcast shows that the public are desperate for facts that they can trust, because they don't know what to believe anymore.

0 (2h 2m 56s):
Well, I am being completely honest when I say this, that, you know, I followed your lead. I saw you on the Joe Rogan podcast and my jaw dropped. I was like, this is amazing like this, because he had had other good scientists on before. But your, you know, tenure professor, Harvard genetics department of genetics. And for those of you don't know, there's the Harvard and of course, Harvard medical school. And they're both excellent, of course, but these are the top, top tiers of, of academia. And I certainly understand what it takes to get there and survive there and to, to thrive there, it's like a game of pinball. You never win. You just, you just get to, if you're doing really well, you get to keep playing.

0 (2h 3m 37s):
That's the truth in academia. And if you're not, you stop playing basically. But when I saw you explain what you were doing in a way that was accessible to people and also talking about possible protocols that they might explore for themselves to see if those were right for them. I was just, I was just dazzled and excited, and I made every effort to get in contact with you. And, and, you know, the rest is history, but I think what's really exciting to me these days is because of 2020 and everything that's happened and it continues to happen. There's a thirst for knowledge. There's also this direct to the public route that you mentioned.

0 (2h 4m 17s):
And, and I think there's also an openness. I'd love your thoughts on this, but it seems to me that there's an openness from the general public about health practices, that there are actually things that people can do to control their stress level, to control their sleep, to control their cholesterol, if that's what they need to do, maybe they don't and to even control their lifespan, which I think is remarkable. And, you know, I know I speak on behalf of so many people when I just, I want to say, thank you. You've truly changed the course of, of my life. I would not be sitting here doing this where it not for your example. And I always say Sinclair, many people have written books, many academics have written books as you have, but in terms of doing podcasts and really getting out there with your message in a way that I have to assume raised your cortisol level and heart rate just a little bit, but you did it nonetheless, you know, you are truly first man in, and that, that deserves a nod.

0 (2h 5m 17s):
And, and, and I have a great debt of gratitude to you for that. So thank you so much.

2 (2h 5m 21s):
Thanks, Andrew. You're a, you become a good friend and I'm super proud of what you've done and what you, I know what you will.

0 (2h 5m 27s):
So in addition to your book and your presence on social media, Instagram, and Twitter, and appearances on podcasts recently, I've noticed that you've opened up a, a survey, email slash website that people can ask access, excuse me, to get some information about their own health and rates of aging. Tell us about that. And what's being measured. And what is this test that you've been working on secretly and now soon not socio really?

2 (2h 5m 56s):
Yeah. Or that what I want is, is a credit score for the body to make it easy for people to follow their health. And there is a number there's a, there's a biological age that you can measure. Unfortunately, the test is many hundreds of dollars right now, but in my lab, we've been able to bring that down a lot. And so I want to democratize this test so that everybody has access to a score for their health that can predict their, not just their future health and time of death, but to change it. And I'm building a system that will point people in the right direction and give them discounts for certain things that will improve, not just their health now, but 10, 20, 30 years into the future. And we can measure that and very cheaply, keep measuring it to know that you're on the right track, because if you don't measure something, you can't optimize it.

2 (2h 6m 43s):
And so this is the biological age test we've developed it. It's a simple mouth swab. We're rolling it out. We're building the system right now. And there is a signup sheet. Cause a lot of people want to get in line, go to Dr. sinclair.com. You can get on that. And you'll be one of the first people in the world to get this test and see what we're doing. Oh, Phantom,

0 (2h 7m 2s):
Fantastic. Will people be celebrating their biological age birthdays? In other words, if I'm minus, like if I can imagine, so I'm 45 right now, soon to be 46. But if my, if I were to be so lucky as to get my biological age to 35 within 12 months, maybe you can help me do that. Do I get to celebrate a, a negative birthday?

2 (2h 7m 24s):
Absolutely. And my plan is that those people who take their age back a year or more, we think we can go back 20 years. Eventually they'll get a birthday card from me and it's a negative birthday card.

0 (2h 7m 36s):
I love it. And probably very little actual birthday cake being ingested, but who cares because you're living that much longer Stevia, that'll be fine. And thank you for talking to us today. I, I realized I took us down deep into the guts of, of mechanism and, and as well, talking about global protocols, everything from what one can do and take if they choose that's right for them to, how to think about this whole process that, that we talk about when we talk about lifespan as, as always an incredibly illuminating. Thank you, David. Thanks Andrew. Thank you for joining me for my conversation with Dr. Davidson Claire, if you're enjoying and or learning from this podcast, please subscribe to our YouTube channel.

0 (2h 8m 21s):
In addition, please subscribe on apple and or Spotify. And on YouTube, you can leave us comments and you can leave us suggestions for future podcast guests that you would like us to feature. In addition on apple, you can leave us up to a five star review and you can leave us a comment. Please also check out the sponsors mentioned at the beginning of this episode, that's the best way to support this podcast. Also, I teach science and science related tools on Instagram, it's human lab on Instagram. I also have a Twitter, which is also human lab. So be sure to check those out. A lot of the material covers things similar to the podcast, but oftentimes I'll cover a unique material, not featured at all on the podcast. So that's hubris and lab on Instagram and on Twitter. In addition, we have a Patrion it's patrion.com/andrew Huberman.

0 (2h 9m 4s):
And there you can support the podcast at any level that you like

Thorne (2h 9m 8s):
today. And in many other previous episodes of the human lab podcast, we discuss supplements while supplements aren't necessary or right, for everybody, many people drive tremendous benefit from supplements. For that reason, we partnered with thorn T H O R N E because Thorne supplements are the absolute highest quality and the absolute highest precision meaning. What you see listed on the bottle is what's actually in the bottle, which is not the case for many supplement companies out there. Thorn is one of the partners of the Mayo clinic and all the major sports teams. And so they really are very trusted, very highest quality. If you want to see the supplements that I personally take, you can go to thorne.com/the letter U slash Huberman, and there you'll see the supplements that I take. You can get 20% off any of those supplements. And if you navigate deeper into the thorn site, through that portal, you'll also get 20% off any of the other supplements that thorn makes. So again, it's thorn T H O R N e.com/the letter U slash Huberman to get 20% off any of the supplements that thorn makes.

2 (2h 10m 6s):
Also take note that the lifespan podcast featuring Dr. Davidson Claire, as a host launches Wednesday, January 5th, you can find the first episode here on the Herberman lab podcast channel. They also have their own independent channel. You can find the link to that channel in the show notes. So please go there, subscribe on YouTube, also on apple and Spotify. I've seen these episodes, they are phenomenal, and you're going to learn a tremendous amount about aging and how to slow and reverse aging from the world expert himself, Dr.

0 (2h 10m 33s):
Davidson, Claire, and last, but certainly not least thank you for your interest in science.