0 (0s):
Welcome to the Huberman Lab podcast where we discuss science and science-based tools for everyday life. I'm Andrew Huberman, and I'm a professor of neurobiology and ophthalmology at Stanford School of Medicine. Today my guest is Dr. Nolan Williams. Dr. Williams is a medical doctor and professor of psychiatry and behavioral Sciences at Stanford University School of Medicine. His laboratory and clinic focus on depression and other mood disorders. They focus specifically on the use of transcranial magnetic stimulation, which is a brain stimulation technique that can either activate or quiet specific brain circuits as well as circuits within the body in order to treat depression and other mood disorders, other laboratories and clinics use tms.

0 (46s):
What sets apart the work of Nolan Williams and colleagues is that they combine TMS with other treatments, and some of those treatments are among the more cutting edge that you've probably heard about these days, including iboga, psilocybin, mdma, cannabis, dmt, and other drugs that at this point in time are experimental in terms of clinical trials, but that at least the preliminary data show hold great promise for the treatment of depression and other mood disorders. In the course of my discussion with Dr. Williams, we covered things such as the history of each of these drugs, how they came to be and their current status in terms of their clinical use and legality. We also talk about their safety profiles both in children and in adults, and we talk about what the future of psychedelic research and clinical use really looks like.

0 (1m 33s):
For instance, we discuss how a number of laboratories in clinics are modifying psychedelics to remove some of their hallucinogenic properties while maintaining some of their antidepressant or anti trauma properties. You'll also learn about some fascinating research in Dr. Williams laboratory focus on ketamine, which is a drug that is increasingly being used to treat depression. And contrary to common belief, the effects of ketamine in terms of relieving depression may not actually arise from its dissociative effects. One thing that you'll find extraordinary about Dr. Williams is that not only does he have vast knowledge of the various treatments for depression, but that he and his laboratory are really combining these treatments in the most potent way.

0 (2m 14s):
That is combining psychedelic treatments with brain machine interface or combining brain machine interface with particular learning protocols. That is neuroplasticity protocols, which can directly change the brain in specific ways. So today you're gonna learn a tremendous amount about the neural circuitry underlying depression, as well as positive moods. You'll also learn about all the various drugs that I described, and you're really going to learn about the current status and future of the treatment of mood disorders. Today. You'll also learn about a number of ongoing studies in Dr. Williams' laboratory. I should mention that they are recruiting subjects for these studies. If you go to bsl, which stands for Brain Stimulation Laboratory, so that's bsl.stanford.edu, you have the opportunity to apply for one of these clinical trials for the treatment of depression and other mood disorders.

0 (2m 58s):
I confess that the, the conversation with Dr. Williams was for me, one of the more stimulating and informative conversations I've ever had about psychedelics, which is simply to say that his breadth and depth of knowledge on that topic is incredible, and his breadth and depth of knowledge in terms of the underlying brain science and how it can all be combined with clinical applications is also extraordinary. I'm sure that by the end of today's episode, you're going to come away with a tremendous amount of knowledge about the clinical and nonclinical uses of those substances, and you're going to understand a lot more about how the healthy and diseased brain work. I'm pleased to announce that the huberman Lab podcast has now launched a premium channel, and I wanna be very clear that the huberman Lab podcast will continue to be released every Monday at zero cost to consumer, and there will be no change in the format of these podcasts.

0 (3m 46s):
The premium channel is a response to the many questions we get about specific topics, and it will allow me to really drill deep into specific answers related to those topics. So once a month, I'm going to host and ask me anything so called AMA, where you can ask me anything about specific topics covered on the huberman Lab podcast, and I will answer those questions. Those of course will be recorded. There will also be other premium content available to premium subscribers, such as transcripts and short videos of new tools and unique tools for mental health, physical health and performance. If you want to check out the premium channel, you can go to huberman lab.com/premium. There's a $10 a month charge or a hundred dollars per year, and I should mention that a large portion of the proceeds from the Huberin Lab Premium channel will go to support scientific research that develops the very sorts of tools that we talk about on the huberman Lab podcast.

0 (4m 34s):
The rest of the support for the Hub Lab Podcast Premium channel will go to supporting the regular huberman Lab podcast. Again, that's huberman lab.com/premium. Before we begin, I'd like to emphasize that this podcast is separate from my teaching and research roles at Stanford. It is, however, part of my desire and effort to bring zero cost to consumer information about science and science related tools to the general public. In keeping with that theme,

Inside Tracker (4m 56s):
I'd like to thank the sponsors of today's podcast. Our first sponsor is Inside Tracker. Inside Tracker is a personalized nutrition platform that analyzes data from your blood and DNA to help you better understand your body and help you reach your health goals. I've long been a believer in getting regular blood work done for the simple reason that many of the factors that impact your immediate and long-term health can only be analyzed with a quality blood test. One problem with a lot of DNA tests and blood tests, however, is you get data back about levels of metabolic factors, levels of hormones, et cetera, but you don't know what to do with that information. Inside Tracker makes interpreting your data and knowing what to do about it exceedingly easy. They have a personalized platform where you can go and you can see those levels of hormones, metabolic factors, lipids, et cetera, and they point to specific nutritional tools, behavioral tools, supplement based tools, et cetera, that can help you bring those numbers into the ranges that are optimal for you. If you'd like to try Inside Tracker, you can go to inside tracker.com/huberman to get 20% off any of Inside Tracker's plans. Again, that's inside tracker.com/huberman to get 20% off.

Eight Sleep (6m 0s):
Today's episode is also brought to us by eight Sleep. Eight Sleep Makes Smart Mattress covers with cooling, heating and sleep tracking capacity. I started sleeping on an eight sleep mattress cover a few months ago, and it is simply incredible. In fact, I don't even like traveling anymore because they don't have eight sleep mattress covers in hotels and Airbnbs. One of the reasons I love my eight sleep mattress covers so much is that, as you may have heard before on this podcast or elsewhere, in order to fall and stay deeply asleep, you need your body temperature to drop by about one to three degrees, and I tend to run warm at night, which makes it hard to sleep and sometimes wakes me up in the middle of the night. When you sleep on an eight sleep mattress cover, you can program the temperature of that mattress cover for specific times in the early, middle and late part of your night so that the mattress stays cool. And as a consequence, you sleep very, very deeply. It also tracks your sleep, so it's paying attention to how many times you're moving, how deep your sleep is. It gives you a sleep score, all wonderful data to help you enhance your sleep. And of course, sleep is the foundation of mental health, physical health and performance, which makes an eight sleep a terrific tool for enhancing not just your sleep, but all aspects of your life really. If you're interested in trying an eight sleep mattress cover, you can go to eight sleep.com/huberman to check out the Pod three cover, and you can save $150 at checkout eight. Sleep currently ships to the usa, to Canada, the uk, and select countries in the EU and Australia. Again, that's eight sleep.com/huberman to save $150 at checkout.

ROKA (7m 25s):
Today's episode is also brought to us by roka. Roka makes eyeglasses and sunglasses that are of the absolute highest quality. The company was founded by two all-American swimmers from Stanford, and everything about Roka, eyeglasses and sunglasses were designed with performance in mind. I've spent a lifetime working on the visual system, and I can tell you that your visual system has to contend with some pretty significant challenges in order to be able to see clearly as you move from one area to the next. For instance, when you go from a shady area to a bright area, Roca understands this and have designed their sunglasses and eyeglasses accordingly. So you always see with crystal clarity in addition, because they were initially designed for performance, things like running and biking, they're extremely lightweight, but they have a terrific aesthetic. So unlike a lot of eyeglasses and sunglasses that were designed for sports that make you look like a cyborg, they have styles that make you look like a cyborg if you like those. But they also have styles that you'd be perfectly comfortable wearing to work or out to dinner, et cetera. They're really terrific glasses. I love mine because I can wear them anywhere and I also use them when running and going out hiking, et cetera. If you'd like to try roka eyeglasses or sunglasses, you can go to Roka, that's R K a.com and enter the code huberman to save 20% off your first order. Again, that's roka R k a.com and enter the code huberman at checkout.

Momentous (8m 37s):
On many episodes of the Huberman Lab podcast, we talk about supplements. While supplements aren't necessary for everybody, many people derive tremendous benefit from them. Things like enhancing sleep and the depth of sleep, or for enhancing focus and cognitive ability, or for enhancing energy or adjusting hormone levels to optimal range for you. The Huberman Lab podcast is now partnered with momentous supplements. To find the supplements we discuss on the huberman Lab podcast, you can go to live momentus spelled os live momentous.com/huberman. And I should just mention that the library of those supplements is constantly expanding. Again, that's live momentous.com/huberman.

0 (9m 13s):
And now for my discussion with Dr. Nolan Williams, thanks for joining today. I'm really excited to have this conversation. It's been a long time coming and I have a lot of questions about different compounds, psychedelics in particular. Yeah. But before we get into that discussion, I want to ask you about depression, broadly speaking. Sure. Intractable depression, how common depression is or isn't. I heard you say in a wonderful talk that you gave, that depression is perhaps the most debilitating condition worldwide. And yet, in contrast to other medical conditions like cancer, we actually have a fairly limited number of tools to approach depression.

0 (9m 59s):
And yet number of tools in the potency of those tools is growing. So if you could educate us on depression, I'd really appreciate it.

2 (10m 6s):
Yeah, absolutely. So depression is a condition that it has a lot of, a lot of manifestations, you know, so you can have kind of a, a depression that's primarily loss of interest. You can have folks who feel very anxious and they're kind of overactive. You can have people who don't have any anxiety at all, and they're very underactive and they have low motivation to do anything. You know, so you have this huge range of symptoms that are in that umbrella of depression. And some of our work is to actually work with, with folks like Conor Liston and Cornell, and try to actually get biotypes based off of neuro imaging to see if we can kind of parse out the different depression, kind of re presentations in the, and see that clinically, and also see that in the brain, depression is the most disabling condition worldwide.

2 (10m 55s):
What's interesting about depression is it's both a risk factor for other illnesses, and it makes other medical and psychiatric illnesses worse, right? So recently the American Heart Association added depression is the fourth major risk factor for coronary artery disease, right? So alongside the risk factors that we know, hypertension, high blood pressure, hyperlipidemia, high cholesterol, and and diabetes, you know, high blood sugar, those three have been on the list for a long time and depression and de you know, being added to the list is the fourth one. And you know, really interesting, right? So in addition to taking medications to address those other three risk factors, we really have to be thinking about how do you treat folks with depression to reduce the risk of having a heart attack in the future?

2 (11m 46s):
And, you know, there's some of that's being worked on now, but we don't have a complete solution to thinking about that at this time. And then the other thing that's interesting is once you have a heart attack into the, in, in, the individuals end up having a heart attack, the risk of having depression after the heart attack is higher than the normal population, right? And so a lot of what we're doing in the lab actually is, is measuring kind of brain heart connections. And we can actually, with transcranial magnetic stimulation, a form of brain stimulation, we can actually decelerate the heart rate, We can capture that heart rate deceleration over the mood regulatory regions. And so actually a direct probe of that connection.

2 (12m 27s):
So it's, it's, it's interesting. And so, you know, as you said a second ago, you know, it's a, it's a very disabling condition. Moderate depression is about, is disabling, is is having a heart attack acutely having a heart attack. Severe depressions is disabling, is having cancer without treatment, you know, and, and dying from, from a cancer without treatment. And so, you know, it's, it's kind of underappreciated just how disabling depression is in that way. And I think important as stigma is consistently kind of being reduced over the years for mental illness, for mental illnesses, then the idea that we can start really putting more funding and putting more focus at the federal level, you know, private foundation level, whatever it is at a given university to, to thinking about developing treatments.

2 (13m 15s):
We've been very interested in a very particular clinical set of problems around the, the most severe and the most high acuity settings that folks with depression end up being in. And that's in, you know, emergency settings where they go into inpatient units and you know, and the rest of medicine, if it's talking about heart attacks, if I start having chest pain right now and, and you bring me to a primary care doctor's office, they're gonna have a certain number of tests and treatments, right? But very limited cuz it's an outpatient facility. If you bring me to the emergency room after that, there are more tests and more treatments. If you put me in the ICU or in the cath lab where they do invasive procedures to the heart, there are more tests and more treatments in psychiatry as we elevate the acuity of an individual.

2 (14m 8s):
You go from being just depressed to being depressed and now thinking about ending your life, the number of treatments actually go down on average. I mean, in some scenarios they go up, but on average they go down and there are no tests, right? And so we've been very focused on that particular problem. Somebody that maybe was doing, you know, fairly okay with a pretty moderate depression and then their depression gets worse and then they end up in an emergency setting. And the, the field really hasn't developed a way of, you know, of consistently being able to treat that problem and folks end up getting the same standard oral antidepressants that they've been getting outpatient.

2 (14m 48s):
And, and I came to this because I, you know, dual trained as a neurologist and psychiatrist went back and forth between neurology and psychiatry, saw that in neurology we have all of these ways of treating acute brain-based problems and really wanted to emulate that in psychiatry and find ways to develop and engineer new, you know, brain-based solutions.

0 (15m 9s):
There's a lot to unpack there. One thing that you said is, I'd like to focus on a bit more because I think we hear that the brain and the heart are connected, but you described, I believe a direct relationship between areas of the brain associated with emotion and heart rate. Yes. And that makes perfect logical sense to me. But I think at the same time many people out there probably think of the relationship between the, the heart and the mind as kind of woo or kind of a, a soft biology. But here you're talking about an actual physical connection. Yep. Between what area of the brain is it?

2 (15m 49s):
The, the, you know, the first place where the stimulation goes is called the do lateral prefrontal cortex. It's kind of the sense of control kind of governor of the brain. And then it'll, and then what we know is that when you use a magnet use kind of what we call fairday law, this idea of using a magnetic pulse to induce an electrical current and electrically conducting substances. So in this case brain tissue but not skull or scalp or any of that, or hair, you avoid all that, just the brain tissue. Then you have a direct depolarization of cortical neurons. You know, the surface of the brain's neurons in this do lateral prefrontal.

2 (16m 29s):
And if you do that in the actual scanner, which we can do, you can see that that distributes down into the anterior singulate in the insula in the amygdala. And ultimately the tract goes into something called the nucleus tract de solitar and ultimately into the vaus nerve into the heart. So that the heart very consistently seems to be the end organ of the do lateral prefrontal cortex. If you measure heart rate in standard ways that cardiologists measure heart rate and you stimulate over this left door, so lateral, you get a deceleration of the heart rate and it's very time locked to the stimulation. So it's a two second train of stimulation at one second, you see the deceleration, it goes down about 10 beats per minute, and then it'll drift back up and there's a break for eight seconds on the stimulation.

2 (17m 19s):
It drifts back up and the stimulation goes back in and then the heart rate goes back down. So you see the heart rate just do this 10 beats per minute every train. And so we know, and if you do that over visual cortex, you don't get that or motor cortex, you don't get any of those findings. It's really specific to this kind of control region of the brain. And so yeah, it seems to, you know, it's our work. Other, other folks work. Martin s in in, in, in Europe, the Netherlands work showing the same connections. I think it's been rep replicated like four or five times.

0 (17m 52s):
So you mentioned left do lateral prefrontal cortex. Anytime I hear about lateralization of function, I get particularly curious. Yeah. Because obviously we have two mirror symmetric sides of the brain. Yep. There they're, you know, rare exceptions to this, like the pine and things of that sort that are only, there is only one pine. What is special about the left do so lateral prefrontal cortex, does this have anything to do with handedness, righthand or lefthand? Because we know righthand and left-handedness has a lot to do with lateralization of function for language, a topic for another time.

0 (18m 31s):
But why do you think that left do so lateral prefrontal cortex would be connected to the heart in this way? Yeah.

2 (18m 39s):
Yeah, I think so. So left do, so lateral, you know, is, is thought to be the, the side that when you excited, when you kind of do excited to stimulation, potentiating sort of stimulation, that you can reduce depressive symptoms. And a guy by the name of Mike Fox at Harvard has demonstrated that if you have strokes in the brain that that cause depression and you put them on the human connectome a hundred thousand patient map and you ask the question what they're all functionally connected to left dorsal lateral. If you take lesions that cause mania in individuals and you put those all in the human connective map and ask what, they're all the one common area they're all connected to, it's the right dorsal lateral.

2 (19m 24s):
And so there seems to be a hemispheric, you know, you know, balancing of mood between these two brain regions. And we know this from an experimental standpoint too, because you can take individuals with depression and you can excite the left or you can inhibit the right and they, they're both anti-depressant. You can excite the right and that's anti manic in some studies. And so this idea that there is this hemispheric balancing of mood is, is quite interesting.

0 (19m 54s):
Right. It's incredibly interesting. And just to people know if, if you're curious what the connectome is, a connectome is a term that was built out of this notion of genomes being a large collections of sequencing and mapping of genes. There are proteins of proteins of connectomes as so-called connectomes of connections between neurons. So the human connectome project is ongoing and I find that incredible that within the connectome project they can identify these regularities of right versus left or so lateral prefrontal cortex. Especially since I've looked at a fair number of brains from humans, not, certainly not as many as you have.

0 (20m 37s):
And if you look at the architecture, the layers, the cell types, and even the neurochemicals of which cells are expressing, say dopamine or serotonin or receiving input from areas that, that make dopamine or serotonin, they don't look that different on the right and left side. And yet here we're talking about a kind of an accelerator and a break, if you will. Yeah, that's right on, on depression and mania using what, at least by my eye. And I think other people's eye look to be basically the same set of bits, the same parts list. Yeah. More or less. So what gives the, these properties to the right and left or so lateral prefrontal cortex, Is it the inputs they receive? Is this something that we learn during development or do you think that we come into the world with these hemispheric biases?

2 (21m 22s):
Yeah, it's a, it's a great question. And you know, it hasn't been worked out, which your original question was around in a lefthanded individual, which as you know, 25% of those folks end up having a right brain dominance or 1% of right-handed people have a right brain dominance if it's flipped right. And that, you know, unfortunately that study still hasn't been done at the level. Cause that would be probably pretty helpful for teasing some of this out. But, you know, it's, it's, it's still, you know, it's still being sorted out. Right? We, we know enough to know this phenomenon exists because we can use TMS as a probe and do this sort of, these sorts of manipulations.

2 (22m 3s):
But to my knowledge, there hasn't been anybody that's gotten so interested in it that they've been able to get a mechanism of why that is. But, but it, you know, it's kind of empirically true in the sense that you can push and pull on those systems or in this, in the case of strokes that folks have, and then you kind of get their brains and, and their brain images and look at where the strokes landed. Those kind of causal bits of information point to this, this asymmetry.

0 (22m 34s):
Interesting. Well, in that case, going with what we do know that stimulation of do lateral prefrontal cortex slows the heart rate down transiently, but it slows it down and seems to alleviate at least some symptoms of depression. Leads me to the question of why would that be the case? Is it, does it tell us anything fundamental about depression that anxiety is inherent to depression? I think a faster heart rate is, you know, part and parcel with, with with anxiety. In my laboratory we've studied fear a bit in animals and in humans, and we often observe brachy cardio where somebody or an animal is afraid of something and rather than the heart rate speeding up, it actually slows down something that most people don't think about or recognize at.

0 (23m 22s):
But given that stimulation at dors, lateral prefrontal cortex slows the heart rate down and can alleviate depressive symptoms and that there are other ways to slow the heart down. I have two questions. What do you think this, this tells us about the basic architecture of depression and its physiology at the level of the heart? And does the circuit run in the opposite direction too? If one were to have or find other ways to slow the heart rate down, say with a beta blocker, does that help alleviate depression?

2 (23m 51s):
Yeah, no, it's a great question. So the, I'll answer the second question first. So we know that in the ongoing trials of this, if you stimulate in the Vegas nerve in an implanted Vegas nerve stimulator, you can actually, you know, have this, the afar parts of the, the Vegas, you project ultimately up to the D L P F C through the simulate, through these anterior insole. So that same, that obviously the same tract, right? And you can stimulate there and alleviate depression, which seems very unusual, right? You're stimulating a cranial nerve down on the neck. But if you can get up into the brain, you actually can improve depressive symptoms.

2 (24m 32s):
And so, you know, more evidence that this is a kind of a whole track and system. And if you stimulate in part of that system, it appears that you can improve mood.

0 (24m 44s):
And what if I were somebody who did not have a stimulating electrode in my vagus nerve and I was dealing with minor depression and I decided I wanted to take some other approach to slow my heart rate down by the Vegas, for instance, exhale, emphasized breathing or deliberately slow cadence, breathing, things of that sort. Is there any evidence that behavioral interventions of those kinds can alleviate depression or some symptoms of depression? And is there any evidence that it does indeed feedback to the dors lateral prefrontal cortex to achieve some of that alleviation?

2 (25m 19s):
Absolutely. Yeah. So there's, there's a number of studies implicating dlp, the dors lateral in and say, you know, meditation, mindfulness, that sort of thing. And, and they're small studies but, but pretty well designed studies suggesting that behavioral interventions in mild depression actually work quite well. There seems to be a volitional threshold for depression where at some point you, you start losing it, you, you go from being completely in total volition to having kind of semi volition. You have thoughts that you really have a hard time controlling and that sort of thing. And when you go through that threshold, at some point it gets harder and harder for those sorts of things to kind of kick in and work in the extreme form of that is catatonia, right?

2 (26m 5s):
Where people in a very severe form of depression get kind of stuck motorically, right? And they obviously can't, they have no control and so, or or very limited control. And so, you know, I think there's a threshold in which these sorts of interventions will work, exercise seems to really be a good treatment for, for mild depression, and it may work through the mechanism you're describing, right? As, as we all know, you know, athletes hold a lower resting heart rate than folks that, that aren't, you know, if you're, if you were an athlete, you had a lower resting heart rate, you stopped, you know, exercising, and a couple years later you're resting heart rate in many cases goes up, right? And so maybe that's, maybe that's part of the process.

2 (26m 48s):
I'm not aware of any studies specifically looking at do lateral prefrontal physiology pre-post exercise, but it would be a great study. I think that would be really helpful to understanding this, especially if you had a correlation of changes and kinda lowering if say, heart rate with mood improvements there. There's been a lot of work with heart rate variability and, and depression and, you know, studies are can point towards it. It's not, not every study is, is is, you know, positive for this, but, but quite a few studies say basically that lower heart rate variability is associated with, you know, moderate to severe depression.

2 (27m 35s):
And that may be part of that mechanism of that heart brain risk.

0 (27m 40s):
So I'm both intrigued and a little bit perplexed by this relationship between heart rate and depression. On the face of it, I would think of depression as depressed. So lower heart rate might make somebody more depressed. You even mentioned catatonia or somebody that just doesn't seem motivated or excited to do anything. I think a mania is elevated heart rate and being excited. On the other hand, I realize that anxiety, which you know, brings about ideas as elevated heart rate is also built into depression. Which brings me back to what you said earlier, which is that when we say depression, are we really talking about four or five different Yeah,

2 (28m 15s):
That's right.

0 (28m 17s):
Disorders. Yeah, that's right. For lack of a better word. And for what percentage of people that have depression does some approach to reducing heart rate work, whether or not it's stimulation of the dors left dors, lateral prefrontal cortex by way of transcranial magnetic stimulation or by taking a beta blocker or by stimulating the Vegas, can we throw out a number, a rough number? Does that help 30%, 50%? How per, how long lasting is that, that relief?

2 (28m 45s):
Yeah, and to be clear, the, the deceleration of the heart rate is in the moment when the stimulation is happening, but it's not something that's necessarily maintained chronically. It's more of an indicator that you're in the right network more than it's, than it appears to be itself, you know, central, the mechanism, the heart rate variability piece may be, and there's some studies that link the two, but the actual deceleration seems to be much more of a marker that you're in the right system. But you know, it very well could be that the heart rate system and the mood system just sit next to each other and the stimulation hits both. If you look at how much of the variance in the mood is explained by the heart rate deceleration, it's not, it's not a huge, you know, it's not a huge amount, right?

2 (29m 32s):
So it only explains a small percentage. And so it's, it's unlikely that simply decel, you know, simply reducing the heart, heart rate. And in fact, you know, for many years propranolol and these sorts of drugs actually were implicating causing depression. And so that, that's been kind of debunked, but it's, it's unlikely that simply decelerating the heart rate's gonna improve depression. But what it does tell you is that if you're in that area that is the mood regulatory area, there's some parasympathetic cortical kind of process that's going on that gets in and, and causes this to happen. And it's, you know, it's independent of mood. You can take a normal healthy individual and you can do this and they're gonna decelerate their heart rate.

0 (30m 17s):
I'm so glad you mentioned the parasympathetic nervous system, which of course is the most people think of as the rest and digest or the kind of calming side of the autonomic nervous system. As I'm hearing you say all of this, and in particular what you just told me, which is that it's not as if having a lower heart rate protects you against depression or a higher heart rate is associated with depression. Although at the extremes that might be true, but rather it's something about the regulatory network, the ability to control your own nervous system to some extent. And when I think about the autonomic nervous system, I like to think about it as a seesaw Yep. Of, you know, alertness and calmness and when you're sleep it's very, a lot of calmness. And when you're panicking it's a lot of alertness to the, But that, and I don't think this has ever been defined and when a teach the medical students at Stanford neuro anatomy, I, my wish is that someday I'll be able to explain what the hinge in that process would be.

0 (31m 10s):
Right. Not the ends of the seesaw. We know what the sympathetic nervous system is and what it's to wake us up and make us panic or make us feel nicely alert and calm. We know what puts someone into sleep or a coma or makes em feel relaxed. But what shifts from one side of the seesaw to the other and the tightness of that hinge seems to be what you're describing, that, that depression is sort of a lack of control over interstate. So that when I'm stressed, I can't get myself out of it. That's, but when I'm feeling completely collapsed with exhaustion, I can't get out of bed. And That's right. Motivated to do the very things that would help me get out of depression, like a workout or social connection or eat a quality meal, these kinds of things. Yeah. So this is perhaps the first time that I've ever heard about a potential circuit for the hinge as I'm referring to it.

0 (31m 56s):
Does that make any

2 (31m 57s):
Sense at all? Yeah, absolutely. Absolutely.

0 (31m 58s):
I just wanna make sure that I'm framing this correctly in my

2 (32m 0s):
Mind. Yeah, absolutely. And in some studies, if you do the same identical stimulation on the right door lateral, you can get an acceleration, you know, just kind of further confirming this idea of lateralization, right? That that even, it appears that even the prefrontal cortic, you know, cortical areas seem to be lateralized in this, in this way. And I, you know, it's, it's less, the right finding is is more variable depending upon the study. The left's very consistent in this way. So,

0 (32m 32s):
So we've talked about insurance cranial net stimulation for getting into these networks and and I also just want to take a brief tangent and say I, cause I've heard you say this before, I think it's so vital what you're saying, that it's really not about stimulation of areas, it's, or any specific brain area or Vegas nerve being important per se. It's really about a network, a connection, a series of connections. I think that's really important for people to understand and is kind of a new emerging theme really. Yeah. The the other thing that to me seems extremely important for us to consider is what ex what are these lateral prefrontal courtes doing? Are they involved, for instance, in sensation sensing, the heart rate?

0 (33m 15s):
Are they involved in thinking and planning? And this gets down to a very simple question that I know a lot of people have, which is, can we talk ourselves out of depression? If it's mild, can we talk ourselves into a manic state or an excited state, a positively excited state that doesn't qualify as mania? You know, other areas of the brain I think of they is responsible for perception or for, for motor control. But here we are in this mysterious frontal cortex area, which people say executive function planning, et cetera. Are we talking about thoughts? Are we talking about structured thoughts or are we talking about dream-like thoughts? What in the world is going on in the prefrontal cortex?

0 (33m 55s):
Yeah, no, and here I spend my career, you know, in neuroscience and I still, I, I still can't really understand what it's doing and maybe it's doing 50 things.

2 (34m 4s):
Yeah, no, it's a great, it's a great question. So, you know, to, so one of the, one of the studies that, that we've been working on addition to the depression work is actually trying to change trait hypnotizability. So David Spiegel and I have been working on this and you know, he's found and publishes 10 years ago that a different part of the left door lateral is functionally connected with the anterior, the dorsal anterior singlet with a lot of functional connectivity and high hypnotizable and not much in low hypnotizable. And that's a different kind of a different subregion within this bigger brain region we call left or lateral prefrontal cortex.

2 (34m 43s):
Then the part that seems to be important for regulating mood, and so the left or so lateral seems to have connections that are locations specific within the overall kind of named brain region that connect to various parts of the singulate and seem to regulate it. Right? And so if you knock out the left or so lateral prefrontal cortex and you have people do the stroop task, for instance, which is a, a task where you have, it's a simple task, probably know this. You have people name the color of words. And so if I, if I look at a what, you know, if I look at one of the cards that they'll show you, it'll have the word red in red and that's very easy and that's a called a congruent.

2 (35m 31s):
And then the incongruent is red in the color blue and you have to name, you have to say the, the word you don't name the color,

0 (35m 42s):
So you have to suppress a response.

2 (35m 43s):
Yeah, yeah, exactly. And so I'm sorry, you do the, you you name the color and you, you and you see the word written in a different way. And so basically if you, if you stimulate in a way that inhibits the left or so lateral prefrontal cortex or either one, you can actually knock out the ability to do that well and it'll take longer for people on the incongruent cards to, to be able to name it. And so they have, they have a kind of a time delay that's greater than they had before they got stimulated. So that's a part of the, the prefrontal cortex that's different than the part of the prefrontal cortex that's involved in mood regulation. The nice thing about TMS is that you can go through and you can find these areas that are functionally defined through brain imaging and you can perturb them and answer the question you're talking about, how do I understand this part of the prefrontal cortex and its function, this part.

2 (36m 39s):
And so we were able to stimulate an, an inhibitory way within the left dorsal lateral prefrontal cortex that's involved with, you know, this sort of cognitive control area. And we were able to knock that area out and and increase trait hypnotizability so people had greater hypnotizability after they got active stimulation versus when they got sham. And so it suggests that that brain circuit is involved in the, in the process of what hypno, you know, therapeutic hypnosis ends up being. But it's a very different region within the left door.

2 (37m 20s):
So later than say we do, and we do these very intensive stimulation approaches to treat severe depression and we're able to get people outta depression, you know, with the part of the, of the do lateral, it seems to be lower in the, you know, kind of more lateral and and inferior on the d l PFC and connected with a subgenual anterior singlet. So the part of the anterior singulate that processes emotion.

AG1 (37m 47s):
I'd like to take a quick break and acknowledge one of our sponsors Athletic Greens. Athletic Greens now called a G one is a vitamin mineral probiotic drink that covers all of your foundational nutritional needs. I've been taking Athletic Greens since 2012, so I'm delighted that they're sponsoring the podcast. The reason I started taking Athletic Greens, and the reason I still take Athletic Greens once or usually twice a day, is that it gets to be the probiotics that I need for gut health. Our gut is very important. It's populated by gut microbiota that communicate with the brain, the immune system, and basically all the biological systems of our body to strongly impact our immediate and long-term health. And those probiotics in athletic greens are optimal and vital for microbiotic health. In addition, athletic Greens contains a number of adaptogens, vitamins and minerals that make sure that all of my, my foundational nutritional needs are met and it tastes great. If you'd like to try Athletic Greens, you can go to athletic greens.com/huberman and they'll give you five free travel packs that make it really easy to mix up athletic greens while you're on the road, in the car, on the plane, et cetera. And they'll give you a year's supply of vitamin D three K two, again that's athletic greens.com/huberman to get the five free travel packs and the year supply of vitamin D three k2.

2 (39m 1s):
Based on what you told us about the SRO task and the role of the prefrontal cortex and stroop task, to me the Stroop task is a rule switching game. Yep. You're saying in one moment the rule is you read whatever the word says and then, then you switch and then you say, the rule now is you tell me what color the word is written in and you suppress whatever it is the word says.

0 (39m 23s):
Okay. That's right. Okay. A rule in some sense is a, like that is a, a transient adopted belief system. Yep. So I could imagine that in depression, which has all sorts of backstory to it, that of course the psychiatrist or psychologist or friend can pull on that thread. Like for instance, somebody might believe that they are bad Yep. Or that they don't deserve love. I'm trying to bring this into the typical language that they would talk about or that Yeah, absolutely they will never succeed. Yep. Or that even if they keep succeeding, it's just gonna get harder and harder and it will never feel good. These are sort of rules like the Stroop task. That's right. At some level it's, there are rules that are more pervasive over time, unfortunately.

0 (40m 5s):
But I could imagine that if the PFC is also contains some sort of maps or algorithms related to rules of emotionality or self-representation or things that we've heard, I think there must be data out there that saying that, you know, whatever we heard in middle school when someone made fun of us, we can remember that. Cuz I can remember things that people said about a jacket I wore one day or something in the fourth grade, crazy, I didn't even like the jacket now. I think it was kind of cool. But anyway, the point being that we have an intense memory for these things is set up a sort of rule or a question like maybe I don't really know how to dress, for instance. Maybe that's why I always wear the same black shirt.

0 (40m 45s):
But in all seriousness, it seems like the dorsal allow prefrontal cortex is in this amazing position to access rules which are beliefs and beliefs are rules, and then for moments or longer to switch those rules. Yep. And so for somebody who's depressed to just simply look themselves in the mirror and say, You are great, you are fantastic, that's, it feels like a lie if you feel like garbage to say that it, it doesn't fit with the rule. It's like saying that card is not red, that card is green when your eyes tell you that it's that it's red and that's right. And it seems like there's something about prefrontal cortex that, that in principle gives flexibility to rules based on what we know on the stroop task.

0 (41m 28s):
So given its connectivity, can we assume that the talk therapy that occurs in a, the psychiatrist's office or with a friend or through journaling out something, because we do know that reporting things about trauma or difficult circumstances or the rules that we contain and tend to hide inside of us about how we feel miserable about ourselves or anything really that in rescripting that, that somehow it allows us to do a sort of stroop task on our beliefs. Is that, is that a, a tremendous leap? I'm just really trying to frame this in the context of what, what I and most people think of as depression. Yeah, totally. Because the network components are vitally important, but I, I guess what I'm trying to figure out is like what are the, what are the, the algorithms that govern Yeah.

0 (42m 15s):
Prefrontal cortex.

2 (42m 15s):
Yeah, absolutely. So in a, in a kind of standard cognitive behavioral therapy session, right, what, what the therapist just trying to do is identify those beliefs and, and you know, kind of determine how, how fixed they are, you know, if they're flexible as you're saying, and then, and then help folks to find another explanation for them and to, and to kind of reintegrate that potential other explanation into their, their memory system. Right? Where, where I think TMS is really interesting, actually we had a lot of patients who've told me, like my, my therapist told me that I wasn't trying hard enough in therapy and, and you know, and I, I really am trying hard, but I'm, these are, you know, moderate, pretty severe depressed patients.

2 (43m 3s):
And as soon as we get them well with, with the TMS approaches, you know, kind of rapid, you know, five day approach and the next week we come in and see them and they'll say, you know, what I did all weekend is I looked at my therapy books and now I can understand it. And so, you know, I actually see TMS is a way of having kind of exogenous sorts of cognitive functions that in milder forms of depression we can pull off with psychotherapy. You know, this idea of being able to kind of turn that prefrontal cortex on and have it govern these deeper regions in depression, the deeper regions govern the prefrontal cortex. They, they precede the prefrontal cortex timing-wise.

2 (43m 45s):
And we've got some data in, in review now where we're seeing that in depressed individuals that are responsive to our rapid TMS approach where we call Stanford accelerated intelligent neuromodulation therapy or, or s and t or Saint, if you look at the brain before people get this, they will, they will have a temporal delay where the singlet is in front of the D L P F C and in people that are normal healthy controls, no depression, the do, so lateral prefrontal cortex is temporarily in front of the anterior singulate with effective treatment.

2 (44m 25s):
We can flip the timing of things. So the do, so lateral is in front of the anterior singlet, just like in a normal person.

0 (44m 34s):
So you're not talking about pH obviously physically moving these structures, you're talking about in time, in time their activation. So in one case it's like the coach telling the player what to do Exactly. And is like a player telling the coach what to do. And That's right. You restore order to the game, you

2 (44m 47s):
Restore order to the game. And, and what it looks like is de depression to your point, is a bunch of kind of spontaneous content that's semi volitional that's being kind of generated out of this conflict detection system. The t that seems to to to sense conflict and kind of feed that information. It gets overactive in depression and, and then in depression it looks like the left horse lateral does not sufficiently clamp down on it. And what therapy appears to do is to kind of restore that, what we see with TMS over that region is that we just exogenously do the same sort of thing.

2 (45m 29s):
We restore the governance of the left door, so lateral over the T area and that is correlated with treatment improvement. So the degree in which you can retime reregulate in time the left door, so lateral over the t, the more of an antidepressant effect you have.

0 (45m 50s):
Can we therefore say in in crude terms that the dorsal lateral prefrontal cortex really is the governor of how we interpret physiological signals and spontaneous thoughts?

2 (46m 3s):
It is, it, it places a lens that the rest of the brain sees things through and, and you can, you can do these experiments for you, you can put a normal healthy control person in the, in the scanner and you can make them feel like they have a loss of control and then you can see that region come offline, right? So you can experimentally manipulate the system and so kind of buffing it up, it's like almost TMS is almost like exercise for the brain, right? You're kind of exercising this region over and over again with a physiologically relevant signal and kind of turning that system on. And what's interesting we're I think really interesting for, for this show is to, you know, we had a couple of folks, you know, probably five or six folks that have actually told me this, where if they remit early enough in the week, we have this very dense stimulation approach where we can stimulate people really rapidly over a five day block.

2 (46m 59s):
We don't discriminate when they get better to when they stop. So if they, they get better on day one, we still give them the other four days because it's in the protocol to do that. And we can't, We're, we're getting to a point where we can tell how long it's gonna take, but we're not there yet. And so, you know, every time somebody gets better at day one or two at the beginning when we first started doing this, we'd say, you know, we're not sure, you know, we think this is safe to keep going, but you know, what do you want to do? And everybody was like, No, I want to keep going. And so, you know, they're, by Wednesday they're like totally zeroed down on the depression scales, you know, even better than most people walking around. Like really no anxiety, no, no depression or anything By Thursday, the first guy that that told me this, he came in and he said, you know, I was driving back to my hotel and I decided to go to the beach and I just sat there and I was totally present in the present moment for an hour.

2 (47m 49s):
And he is like, I read about this in my mindfulness books, but I experienced it last night and I've never experienced anything like this before. And I was like, Hmm, that's interesting, but kind of wasn't sure. And then, and then I didn't tell any, you know, obviously any more patients about that. And then about five over the last couple of years when they get, they remit early in the week, by the end of the week they're like going to the beach and they're like totally having a, what people describe as a pretty mindful present moment sort of experience, which is really interesting. You know what that is. I mean I don't have full on scientific data to tell you, but it, it's just, it's a, it's an interesting anecdote, right? That, that folks, when you push them through this point of, of feeling kind of clinically well that some people end up reporting this additional set of features.

2 (48m 35s):
So

0 (48m 36s):
Yeah, you mentioned the sing and the anterior ULA in particular because now I feel like for the first time in my career I have some sense of what prefrontal cortex might actually be doing besides providing a bumper for the, for the rest of the, the brain is the t it seems is a more primitive structure in the sense that it's, it's under the, ideally it's under the regulation of this top down control from prefrontal cortex, but what's mapped in the T and for the non neuroscientists out there, when we say mapped, if, if we were to put someone in a scanner and focus in on singulate or put an electrode in there, what, what makes the neurons in their fire? What, what sorts of things in the body and in the mind and out in the world light up, for lack of a better phrase, the singulate?

0 (49m 22s):
What does the singulate like?

2 (49m 24s):
Yeah, yeah. So, so that s stroop task, those incongruent word color associations, the, the dorsal part of that for obsessive compulsive disorder patients, certain, you know, certain kind of triggers. You'll, you'll see some, some of the neuro imaging studies will point to, to anterior singlet in the kind of very crude psychosurgery world, 50 years ago, the anterior single otomy was a way of treating obsessive compulsive disorder, right? Cuz that area seems to be overactive in people who are experiencing obsessive compulsive disorder. You can kind of walk the singulate wraps around, you know, this white matter track like bundles, it wraps around that. And so there's a part that's above that, around that and below that, and depending upon how emotion, how much of the, the conflict task has an emotional component, the more ventral and subgenual that that activation is.

2 (50m 23s):
So the dorsal part of the anterior singlet seems to be kind of more of a pure cognitive, maybe obsessive compulsive disorder sort of area. Whereas when you start getting into mood sorts of triggers, like facial expression conflicts where you're supposed to, they, you know, there's an emotional stroop task where you show the word happy and then you have a face of, of a person that looks mad, then that's another way of having the same sort of stroop conflict that seems to be more perineal subgenual areas, right? So you can kind of, you can trigger the singular based off the level of emotional valence from none down to a lot.

2 (51m 6s):
And, and that seems to be how the, how it's distributed. There are, you know, heart rate kind of components to it and autonomic components in there too. There's something called akinetic mutism, you know, I'm a board certified neuropsychiatrist behavioral neurologist and I've seen, you know, a lot of these what we call zebra cases and neurology where people have, you know, these unusual neurological presentations and one of them is a, a kinetic mutism. And so if you have a glioma sitting in the inner hemispheric fisher and ha kind of having pressure on the singulate, people can get into an almost catatonic looking state where they kind of get stuck and they don't speak. And, and so that tells you something about how the, how the singular works as well, right?

2 (51m 50s):
It's, it's like if it's, if it's not functioning, then people have a hard time kind of connecting with reality. It seems to need to be constantly on, you know, online to be able to interact with the exterior world.

0 (52m 6s):
Is it involved in some of the dissociative states that sometimes people who are very stressed or or depressed experience, you said catatonia being an extreme one, but I know someone for instance, that when they get really stressed, and it can even be if someone yells at them or someone's angry, even if someone's angry with them or they perceive someone's angry with them, there's a developmental backstory to why they, they likely feel this way. They sort of just kind of can't, This is a high, high functioning individual normally, and they, they just sort of can't function. They can't complete simple things like email or, or groceries or things for, for a short while. It's, it's almost like a catton and they refer to as a dissociative state.

0 (52m 51s):
Do you see that in depression? And I mean, we're, we're speculating here as to whether or not that involves a singulate, but what you're saying has holds a lot of salience for me in thinking about this example.

2 (52m 60s):
Yeah. Yeah. There's, so you see, you see catatonia as an extreme outcome of depression and of, and sometimes it's schizophrenia and other illnesses. Dissociation is an extreme outcome, or even some cases a less extreme outcome of PTSD and, and trauma and you know, and it's also a phenomenon that happens naturally in some people that are highly hypnotizable. And so if you ask David Spiegel, I'd say that, you know, some of the work that he's been working on is around posterior singulate and, and the capacity to dissociate. But yeah, you know, with our stimulation approach to, to D L P F C, dorsal anterior singulate, one of the subscales that moved the most was the dissociative subscale for, for hypnotizability.

2 (53m 47s):
So even in a normal individual, you know, you see that, that change in, in, in that kind of experience of dissociation.

0 (53m 55s):
I am highly hypnotizable. Yeah. David David's hypnotized me a number of times. In fact, you have a clip of that on the Hebrew live clips channel. I, I've always, well always starting at my early teens, I started exploring hypnosis. I'm extremely hypnotizable and self-hypnosis or assisted hypnosis. I don't know that I ever go into socio states. I'll try and avoid forcing you into running a clinical session right now, but to assess anything like that. But this brings about something really interesting I think, which is, I'm aware that some of the more popular emerging treatments for depression include things like ketamine, which is a diso anesthetic.

0 (54m 37s):
Is that right? Yep. And yet, and my assumption is that as a diso anesthetic, that it leads to dissociative states Yep. Where people can sort third person themselves and be, feel somewhat distanced from their emotions. Yes. I've also been hearing that there are emerging treatments, psilocybin being one of them, but some other treatments, mdma, et cetera, that will parse each of these in, in detail that lead to the exact opposite state during the effect of the drug, which is a highly engaged emotionality and heart rate and sense of self. Yeah. And can also lead to relief of depression. Now, whether or not this again, reflects that depression is many conditions as opposed to just one, or whether or not somehow tickling or in some cases pushing really hard on the opposite ends of the, the scale really matter.

0 (55m 30s):
I am absolutely fascinated, and again, also perplexed by this, why would it be that it a drug that induces dissociative states and a drug taken separately that induces hyper associative states would lead to relief of the same condition? Yeah,

2 (55m 46s):
No, that's a great question. Yeah. So for, for ketamine, you know, the, the level of de of dissociation appears to be correlated with the, the therapeutic effect. It appears to be necessary but not sufficient to produce an antidepressant effect. And so folks that, that don't have any, any psychological change from the ketamine or, or don't experience any dissociation, Tim typically tend to have less, less potent antidepressant effects from ketamine. We did a study a couple of years ago, it was really interesting. So we, we gave folks Naltrexone, which is an opiate antagonist, mu and kappa opiate receptor antagonist.

2 (56m 27s):
And we, we, we gave folk the same individuals a pill of that or a pill of placebo, and they had no idea which one they were getting. Was this low dose naltrexone, 50 milligrams? So it's pretty high dose. Okay. Yeah. And so we, we gave a, it was typical ketamine therapeutic dose, and then we gave 50 milligrams of naltrexone or placebo. And then in the same individuals we, we gave two in, you know, two infusions, one with each of those conditions. And, and if they had an antidepressant effect, we waited until they relapsed and then we gave 'em the other condition. And then we looked to see what, what effect of blocking the opioid receptor, what effect would you see on the antidepressant effect of blocking the opioid receptor with the idea that if ketamine works the way that a lot of researchers at the time thought that it, you know, completely worked in which is the glutamate system, then you would have no effect of naltrexone.

2 (57m 19s):
Cause naltrexone just interacts with the opiate system. It doesn't do anything with any other systems. Ketamine has a lot of effects over, you know, it has op clear opiate effects in mice in various ways of looking at that and an MDA receptor antagonism and glutamate effects. And so if it's just that the glutamate part is, is the part driving the antidepressant effect, you shouldn't have any difference in the antidepressant effect between the two conditions. If, however, the antidepressant effect is primarily is the, the opioid properties of ketamine are necessary for the antidepressant effect, then you should have a loss of antidepressant effect during the ketamine plus Naltrexone condition that you observed in the ketamine plus placebo condition.

2 (58m 9s):
And what we, what we saw was that there was a dramatic blockade, or the antidepressant effect when naltrexone was present in the, Yeah. In the people that had a, had an antidepressant effect with ketamine plus placebo alone. And, and then some friends of mine did a TMS study with pain and they stimulated over the left or lateral prefrontal cortex, and they gave Nilo IV naloxone, which works basically the same way as Naltrexone, and they were able to block the anti-pain effects of TMS with a opiate blocker. So this idea that another kind of convergent point, right?

2 (58m 50s):
This idea that the opioid receptor may have a role in mood regulation. What's also interesting is if you look at people that are getting a total knee operation, very painful operation, right? You know, total knee replacement and you, you age sex, you know, everything match the individuals that are going through that. But you have a group of people that don't have depression and a group of people that do have depression, the presence of depression triples the, the oral opioid dose by day four. Right? That's required, that's required to, to cover the pain. But what may be happening is it's not just treating physical pain, maybe treating emotional pain as well. Right. At least transiently, it seems to have a pro, an antidepressant effect chronically, it seems to have a very pro depress effect.

2 (59m 36s):
It can make people treatment resistant. But, you know, it's, it's an interesting phenomenon. But yeah, the opioid system seems to be pretty, pretty involved. But what's interesting there with the, the, the ketamine trial is that we didn't see any effect on the dissociation. And so the dissociation was the same each time. So the psychological effect of the, what we call the trip or the, the kind of dissociative effect for people are having a psychological phenomenon from ketamine that was identical both times. And so it, it kind of, it also challenged this idea that the psychological experience of the psychedelic effect may be all that's necessary to produce an effect and that the pharmacology doesn't matter as long as you can achieve that state.

2 (1h 0m 23s):
And so, you know, we think we pretty clearly debunked that idea that the underlying pharmacology and the state, you know, seem to be important. We don't know for sure if you can, in a lot of people are working on this, if you can take out, you know, essentially the psychological effect and still have a drug that works to, to treat the, the under the illness that you're trying to target. And, you know, a lot of, there was a mouse study out this week where, where they had an LSD analog and they were able to see some, some animal level data to suggest that could be true. But, but until we figure that out in humans, it's, it's kind of to be deter determined. But it is, it is curious, right?

2 (1h 1m 3s):
Being able to kind of use experimental manipulations to try to separate, you know, some of these phenomenon apart and really understand what's, what's doing what.

0 (1h 1m 13s):
It's so critical and it's so critical to the other conversation that we'll surely get to, which is the progression of psychedelics from illicit legal drugs to clinically validated and, and presumably at some point either decriminalized or legal drugs, which has not yet happened, at least not in the us but just to make sure that people are getting this and how crucial this is. What we're really talking about here is the fact that, you know, somebody takes a multi gram dose of psilocybin or somebody takes MDMA or they take ketamine and they experience relief from their trauma, their depression, their addiction, or any number of the other things that indeed those compounds have been shown to be useful for in certain contexts, clinically supported, et cetera.

0 (1h 2m 1s):
There's this like gravitational pull to the idea that oh, it was the hallucinations Yep. It was the dissociative state. Yep. It was the feeling of connectedness. And what we're really saying is that while that certainly could be true, it may be the case that a major source of the positive shift that occurs after the effect of the drug is some underlying biology, like shifts in the mu opioid receptor ala your experiments with naltrexone or a change in the underlying neuromodulation that had anywhere from nothing to something to do with the real shift. Yeah. And I know there's a group up at uc Davis that published a paper in nature about a year ago also looking at these are is a chemistry lab essentially modifying psychedelics to remove the, the hallucinogenic properties, the mood altering properties, and actually seeing some pretty impressive effects in shifts in mood after the drug wears off.

0 (1h 2m 58s):
Yeah. And I know this, this gets people upset when they hear it. A lot of people, this gets a lot of people upset. Really? Yeah, yeah. Because people think, oh no, it's the, it's the intense experience that matters. But in fact, that may not be the case at all. In fact, it's so powerful for people that sometimes I liken it in my mind to, you know, it's like somebody, it's like the birth of a new child and it's such an incredible experience and then people feel so much connection and then they sort of connect the, the experience of the, of the actual birth to the connection when in fact they're That's true. It turns out. But there are a bunch of other things happening too. Yeah, totally. That are simp that's simply the reflection of the fact that you're holding a child and the phal effects, et cetera. Yeah. So anyway, I, I think it's very important that these different variables be figured out along those lines.

0 (1h 3m 46s):
I I wanna make sure that before we dive a bit deeper into ketamine and psilocybin, that we do touch on really important topic that has been in the press a lot lately, which is ssri selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors. Cuz we can't really have a discussion about depression without talking about SSRIs. And then I wanna circle back to ketamine and psilocybin. It seems that there are now data that essentially say state that there's no direct link between serotonin levels and depression. Although I, my understanding is that the SSRIs are powerfully effective for certain forms of obsessive, obsessive compulsive disorder and may also be effective for treatment of depression, but it may again be through some effect unrelated to serotonin itself.

0 (1h 4m 34s):
Is that right? And how should we think about SSRIs? Are they useful, are they not useful? What's the, what's going on with SSRIs in your patients and in other, other people as well?

2 (1h 4m 45s):
Yeah, the, the, yeah, so the, the experiment that I described a bit ago around the naltrexone and, and ketamine was the first time I'm aware of where we were able to essentially eliminate an, an antidepressants effect by using a second drug as an kind of a blockade. And, and it highlights a bigger issue, right? The issue that we haven't had a good way of really understanding how these drugs work. And so it's the difference, I think a lot of the, the controversy there is that it's been difficult, I think for folks to see that something can on one hand work and on the other hand, we don't know how it works, right?

2 (1h 5m 28s):
And so SSRIs clearly work, you know, many, many meta analyses kind of proving that out, right? That, that in a subpopulation of individuals, they achieve great benefit from depression, you know, for depression, for obsessive compulsive disorder, for generalized anxiety disorder, panic, you know, all these things you can see a, an improvement in those symptoms with what we call SSRIs or selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors. The issue there is that these selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors end up blocking the, the reuptake of serotonin, leaving the, the serotonin, you know, in this, in this kind of in between, between two neurons for a while and allowing for more serotonin to kind of be there.

2 (1h 6m 18s):
The issue is that they don't, they don't work immediately, right? So they don't work like the same day you start taking them. And that, that suggests that probably it's not exactly the serotonin being in there that's directly driving it, that it's much more likely that it may have some say plastics brain plasticity effects, right? We know that things like brain derived neurotrophic factor get upregulated with chronic oral antidepressant use. And, and so that's, that's kind of the ideas that is that these things work. But what's powerful, and I think with the authors of this paper was extremely controversial, PA paper were, were in part trying to say was that there's not a, there's not a deficit of serotonin.

2 (1h 7m 8s):
You're not born with what people call a chemical imbalance and psychiatry's known this, this is not actually new information, anybody, you know, and it's, it's kind of a rehashing of a bunch of information we've known for a while now, but in the lay press, it's kind of hit in a way that it didn't seem to grab attention before with previous publications. But this idea that this chemical imbalance idea is wrong, I really, I really think that part's important because I think that, you know, for a while I think psychiatry, you know what I'll call psychiatry 1.0, right? This kind of idea of Freud and, and psychotherapy and its, and its origins, It was a lot around, you know, the, your family and those experiences and psychotherapy kind of going in and correcting or helping you to figure out or, and you know, show you being able to see, or people hear you so that you can eventually come to the conclusion of certain cognitions that aren't helping you.

2 (1h 8m 11s):
Right. And there's a huge, you know, there's a huge importance there, but there's a history where, you know, things like the schizophrenic mother and all of that, you know, that was a concept at some point, right? And so we've transitioned from that to, to the, you know, for a long time the chemical imbalance, which I'll call psychiatry 2.0, you know, this idea that there's something chemically missing. And, and, and I, I think that the trouble there for a patient who's not a physician, who's not someone who's, you know, who's, who's steeped in these sorts of ideas, who's, you know, more of, you know, kind of, kind of a person, a kinda average American out there, right?

2 (1h 8m 57s):
Is that it's telling, it's sending a message of there's something missing with me, whether it be my experiences I had no control of over when I was a child or a chemical in my brain. What I think is really powerful with, with tms, you know, really powerful tms and a lovely, even powerful, the psychedelic story. Is it saying something different? You know, TMS works and there's no serotonin coming in or out of the brain, right? And we're, we're doing a rapid form of TMS that works in one to five days. There's no, there's, it's very unlikely that there's some long-term kind of up-regulation of serotonin that's driving that.

2 (1h 9m 37s):
So our work actually kind of pushes back on this serotonin hypothesis as being kind of the center of depression because it says, look, we're not giving anybody any serotonin. We're simply turning these brain regions on and we're focused on the circuitry. And that's psychiatry 3.0. It's not just like neuromodulation neuromodulation are really nice, you know, use case for psychiatry 3.0 cuz it's so a way to focal and directly perturb brain regions in, in whatever modality you're using. But, you know, there are a lot of, a lot of groups that are actually doing neuro imaging before and after, and they're able to see circuit level changes for something like psilocybin or ketamine long after the drug is gone, right?

2 (1h 10m 20s):
Suggesting, and those same brain regions converge. So the subgenual default mode network connection that we see is changing with our, our, our stand Stanford neuromodulation therapy technique. It's that same set of brain regions that, that ketamine and psilocybin seem to act on, act on these connections between brain networks that seem to shift. And so it refocuses the story on something that's highly correctable and it's, it's basically electrophysiology and it's basically kind of recalibrating a circuit that is recalibrating instead of, I have something missing or I have some phenomen some set of experiences early in life that are, that are gonna forever trap me in these, these psychiatric diagnoses.

2 (1h 11m 11s):
And so it kind of challenges that idea. And I think that's what's so powerful about psychiatry 3.0, this idea of focusing on the circuit because it gets us, gets us into thinking about psychiatry and psychiatric illnesses is something that are recoverable. People can get better people, you know, we've seen with our TMS techniques, we've seen with, with some of the psychedelic work that we've done where people are actually in normal levels of mood for sustained periods of time

0 (1h 11m 37s):
Or within five days,

2 (1h 11m 39s):
Within five or less days. And in the case of, of the psychedelics within a few days, right? So we can get people out of these states. They're totally, well, there's no drug in their system in that point. In the case of psychedelics, it was never a drug in their system, in the case of, of tms. And it, and it just tells us that, that it's, it's, it's fixable. It's, it's just like the heart. It's just like, you know, it's just like an arrhythmia in the heart. It's just like, you know, these, these other illnesses that it's like a broken leg. We can go in and do something and we can get somebody better. Then I think what's, what's empowering and what a lot of patients have told me is they say, you know, I've gotten, you know, some people will relapse and need more stimulation or need more psychedelics or whatever it is, but they'll tell me, I, I've relapsed and I'm depressed again, but I'll never think about killing myself again because I know that if I go get stimulated again, it, it improves, it gets better.

2 (1h 12m 34s):
It, it, it will, I will be able to re achieve it and I can't. And I, and I, I don't fear that I'm chronically broken. I don't fear that the chemical imbalance is still imbalanced. I don't fear that these things that I couldn't control in my childhood, you know, are gonna be there and drive this problem forever. And I think that's, that's what's so powerful about this.

0 (1h 12m 54s):
The sense of

2 (1h 12m 55s):
Control, the sense of control, the sense of they're not doing the stimulation themselves. They're not administering the drug in these trials themselves. And they probably never will. These will probably be medical treatments, but they are choosing to do it. And in that sense, they are in control.

0 (1h 13m 9s):
Yeah. I have a, a good friend, I won't out him for, for reasons. They'll become clear in a moment who was quite obese and lost a lot of weight and was really proud of himself. And then I guess we could say he sort of relapsed in a sense. Not, not not all the way, but, but far along. But his tone around it was very different. He knew he had accomplished what his goal once before he was disappointed in himself, but he knew exactly why he had relapsed. It was very clear he had essentially relapsed to the previous set of eating behaviors and lack of exercise behaviors and has now brought himself back again. And it, it just resonates with your story that, you know, once somebody understands they can do it because they've been there before this, this idea again of, of considering new rules that, that there's, Yeah.

0 (1h 13m 58s):
And, and that brings me to this question about psychedelics and, and the, frankly the altered thinking and perception that occurs in, in high dose psilocybin clinical sessions, it seems that the disorder thinking, even though it could be random, right? Hearing, hearing colors and and seeing sounds is always the, you know, kind of cliche statement of the Timothy Leery area. Yeah. Also, you know, right there, that's a SRO task of sorts. It's a, it's a, it's a synesthesia it's a combining of perceptions, but it's, it's sort of str task ish in that it's a new set of rules for the same stuff. Yeah.

0 (1h 14m 37s):
Right. And people do, many people do report improvements in trauma related symptomology and depression as I understand it. Yeah. From my read of the clinical trials after taking psilocybin. Because during those sessions, something comes to mind spontaneously, as you and I were talking about earlier, they will report, for instance, a new way of seeing the old problem. That's right. And the old problem could be the voice that they're no good, they'll never, nothing will ever work out or could be even more subtle than that. So that raises two questions. One is about the basic functioning of the human brain, which is why do you think the brain would ever hold on to rules that don't serve us?

0 (1h 15m 23s):
Well, that's one question. And then the second question is, what is it about psilocybin and related molecules in terms of their neurochemistry, in terms of the ways they disrupt thinking and feeling, et cetera, during the session that allow this novel rule consideration phenomenon?

2 (1h 15m 45s):
Yeah, so the first question, I think it's an, it's an, it's an evol evolutionary neurobiology answer, right? I think that at the individual person level, you know, it doesn't make a whole lot of sense that when we're really stressed out, some of us want to eat more right? At the individual person level. Cause it's like, that's not particularly that good for my health in the long term. But if you think about it, like, you know, in some 500 years ago, a thousand years ago, if I'm highly stressed out, it's most likely that I'm about to not have food at some point. And I should eat a bunch of food that is high fat, high sugar, high carb food to put on weight for that, you know, next phase where in this stress I may be at in battle and I don't have food and I have enough fuel on board, right?

2 (1h 16m 30s):
And so we, we end up being a, you know, we end up being a result of, of probably a lot of biology that's not that useful in the modern era. And I think in the brain for, for say, let's say ptsd, right? A lot of, a lot of veterans come back and they experience these PTSD symptoms and they're not at all useful back home, right? You know, they're, you know, they hear some loud noise and all of a sudden they're behind a car or they're behind a, you know, I've heard of folks jumping run behind a trash can or whatever in the middle of San Francisco when they hear a loud noise. But if you put them back in the battlefield,

0 (1h 17m 8s):
Highly

2 (1h 17m 8s):
Adaptive, that's highly adaptive, right? And so I think what, what the, what's interesting is that we, in the absence of using substances like psychedelics, end up having these very persistent memories that are attached to negatively to motion, predominantly, as you were saying earlier, the jacket in, in elementary school, we, you know, I had various things like that for me too, right? You, you, you remember these things and, and we, we hold onto those things from an, I think an evolutionary neurobiology standpoint, but what seems to, for whatever reason kind of alleviate that, are these, are these substances some new like mdm a some that have been around for thousands of years, like psilocybin and used in, in kind of sacramental as a sacrament in, in traditions seem to have a therapeutic effect that seems to be pretty long lasting for these phenomenon.

2 (1h 18m 16s):
And so it's, it's just curious, right? It's curious that, that in the absence of that, these things will keep going on and on, but in the presence of that exposure, then all of a sudden you see a resolution of the problem. And we have some work now we're treating folks with navy seals and the data's still being, you know, being analyzed. But the anecdotes that we're getting right are folks are coming back and they're saying, and finally it's finally gone, right? This kind of, these set of PTSD symptoms are finally gone. And so this idea that for whatever reason, going into what's probably a highly plastic state like we were talking about earlier, upregulation of brain derived neurotrophic factor in the case of iga, glial derived neurotrophic factor, this highly plastic state and the ability to re you know, kind of reexperience memories.

2 (1h 19m 8s):
And then as you know, you know, we, we, we always reconsolidate a memory when we bring it back up, we always reconcile, but reconsolidating it in that state for whatever reason, may drive, drive a therapeutic effect. And, you know, the, the, the jury's still out. There's a, I'm a, I would say that I'm, I'm kind of a, I'm agnostic to what tool I'm using, kind of guy. Like I'm, my business is to find treatments that help people. And so I'm much more like pragmatic about it, you know, if, if this sort of thing, which has a lot of cultural baggage, but if this sort of thing ultimately ends up being therapeutic, if we can design trials that convince me and others that it is, then we should absolutely use it.

2 (1h 19m 59s):
You know? And, and if it doesn't, then, then, then we clearly shouldn't use it. Right? And I think that's a big, that's a big question. The field's gonna have to work out. We have a hard time blinding these trials because the placebo condition is not easy to, to pull off, obviously.

0 (1h 20m 15s):
Right. A, a placebo for a psilocybin journey is, is hard to imagine.

2 (1h 20m 20s):
We've got, you know, we've been thinking about this and maybe that ketamine study that I was talking about earlier, if we could give people naltrexone and ketamine, maybe that's a good, you know, a good sort of placebo condition, right? Cause we know that we can block any of the actual antidepressant effects. Ketamine, they still have an experience, you know, And so that's one way of doing it. But thinking about ways to do that and really kind of proving this out. And that's been, yeah, I think that's been, been kind of central to the way I've been been thinking about this. But yeah, I think there's the, the work that's been done so far, the firsts Sabin trial, the first M DMMA trial is published in nature medicine recently.

0 (1h 21m 0s):
And what do those generally say? I mean the, that they are effective for a number of people after one session, two sessions. Yeah. What's, what's sort of the general contour of, and let's, let's start with psilocybin and mdma.

2 (1h 21m 12s):
Yeah. So MDMA appears to, in, in, you know, one to a few MDMA sessions have a, an anti PTSD effect that seems to be, you know, outside of the kind of standard assumed levels of PTSD improvement that you can observe in individuals with this level of ptsd, right? So what we call the effect size, which is essentially like a, a a me, A CO D effect size is a measure that allows for you to compare different treatments to each other for different conditions that are, you know, agnostic to what the actual illness is. You know, the effect sizes there, you know, approach effect sizes, things that are pretty effective like an acids for heartburn, right?

2 (1h 21m 56s):
And you see that with, with, with MDMA treatment.

0 (1h 21m 59s):
So does that mean that for people that have trauma who do a, and again, we're talking about in a clinical setting, they, they take a one or two doses of, of mdm, I think the standard maps doses 150 to 175 milligrams. Again, doing this with a physician, et cetera, Control clinical trial legal.

2 (1h 22m 18s):
Yep, exactly.

0 (1h 22m 19s):
They do it once or twice. And broadly speaking, what percentage of people who had trauma report feeling significant relief from their TRA trauma afterward?

2 (1h 22m 29s):
It's about two thirds of people had a, had a clinically significant change in their ptsd. That's impressive. Which is impressive. Right?

0 (1h 22m 38s):
And how, how long lasting was that? I mean, these trials were ended pretty recently, so Yeah,

2 (1h 22m 42s):
It, it appears to last for a while. In the earlier trials where they followed people out, it seemed to last for kind of in the years range for some people. And so it's, you know, it's pretty, it's pretty compelling. Psilocybin, you know, in contrast with ketamine, which only on average lasts about a week and a half for a single infusion. So it's a much shorter,

0 (1h 23m 2s):
So they have to get repeated infusions of ketamine every 10 days or so.

2 (1h 23m 6s):
Yeah. Or you forever for some people. Or they end up getting like, like, like a bunch of doses for a couple of weeks. And then for some people that seems to last a while. You know, that's where I think, I think the, the psilocybin story for depression and the, in the MDMA story for PTSD seemed more interesting

0 (1h 23m 24s):
To me. So for psilocybin, what is the rough percentages on, And this would be relief not from trauma, but from depression, correct?

2 (1h 23m 32s):
Yeah, yeah, exactly. So it's, you know, in open label studies it's closer to like half to two-thirds of people end up getting better depending upon their level of treatment resistance. In the, in the blinded trials it was more like a, a third or so of people, you know, experience relief. And, and this is, you know, this is a press release of, of the data, you know, And so it hasn't, to my knowledge, it hasn't been published yet. And so I'll, I'm looking forward to seeing the full paper on that one. But, but it, you know, separated from, from placebo and looks, you know, looks pretty, pretty good as well. It looks like it's, you know, the first of two trials that need to be done to get this thing approved for treatment resistant depression. And so, so that stuff looks, looks good

0 (1h 24m 13s):
In terms of mdma for many years it was reported in the popular press and there was a paper published in science that MDMA was neurotoxic, that it would kill serotonin neurons. This was what was always said. Then I saw another paper published in science that wasn't a retraction of the previous paper, but rather was a second paper in the same group that essentially admitted that the first time around they had in injected these monkeys cuz the, with not MDMA, but with methamphetamine. Yep. Which is known to be neurotoxic. That's right. So it was kind of a public ad admittance of oops or big, like really big screw up, so oops, but never attraction and then never really a, a publicly acknowledged correction in the, in the popular press.

0 (1h 25m 2s):
So it seems that in the appropriate dosage range, and with these one or two sessions, my assumption, and this again is an assumption, tell me if I'm right or wrong here, is that MDMA is not neurotoxic for serotonergic neurons at appropriate doses and with appropriate sourcing, et cetera.

2 (1h 25m 21s):
So it was an interesting study that I think the guy's name is Halpern, last name's Halper at

0 (1h 25m 27s):
Not Casey Halper,

2 (1h 25m 28s):
Not different, different, I think Joshua Halper, I'm playing on his first name, but, but

0 (1h 25m 33s):
Casey Halper was a guest on this podcast and is a former colleague of ours at Stanford, who unfortunately we lost to University of Pennsylvania and maybe someday Will will bring him back.

2 (1h 25m 42s):
Yeah, that's right. So this, this individual, you know, received some NIH funding to actually nida, you know, National Institute for Drug Abuse funding to, to explore individuals of the Mormon faith in Utah who, who partake in only mdma. So the way this works is that MDMA happened kind of after a lot of the re religious documents were, were developed. And so MDM A isn't on the prohibited drug list,

0 (1h 26m 20s):
The band substance list,

2 (1h 26m 21s):
Substance

0 (1h 26m 22s):
List. Some good friends who are lds

2 (1h 26m 24s):
Yeah, great people, great people. I do, I do as well, you know, just to kind of set of facts, you know, and so, so these, these folks only use mdma, but they don't, they're not, you know, the problem of, with some people using drugs, they're poly substance users, right? So you can't, you can't say it's the mdm A if they've also taken other psychedelics and they've taken opiates and they've taken cocaine, and you have this picture where you can't really tease out that problem. But, but with this, right, it was just individuals that were part of the Mormon faith. And so they, they were kind of purists in the sense they only used MDM A and he confirmed all of that. And, and it was a, a brilliant study, right?

2 (1h 27m 5s):
Because then he was able to go in and look at their cognitive profiles versus individuals of, of, you know, of the same geography, of the same faith. All of that that happened to not take M D M A and found there were no neurocognitive differences.

0 (1h 27m 20s):
So it, it, does that mean that it was not damaging? It

2 (1h 27m 23s):
Was not damaging. It, it, it's hard to know because to really do this study well, you'd have to track these folks down before they ever took MDMA and do a pre-post and compare to people that didn't. But, you know, this is about as good of a study as you can do in given the, you know, given the situation to be able to check this out. Additionally, when I was back in Charleston and working in the medical University of South Carolina, I, one of my mentors there, Dr. Wagner was a neuropsychologist at M usc and he was also the, the neuropsychologist for the early MDMA trials. And so he did all the neurocognitive batteries for individuals pre-post and similarly did not see any changes in neurocognitive profiles in a negative way.

2 (1h 28m 12s):
And so, you know, there's, there's data from experimental patients receiving this. There's data from people that are chronic users, you know, who only take mdma. And that, that combination of, of data suggests that there's no, there's certainly no apparent risk in the kind of one to two to three dose range. And it's, it's probably unlikely that at least, you know, modest dose exposure over a lifetime doesn't appear to have a, a profound neurocognitive damaging effect.

0 (1h 28m 47s):
Interesting. Yeah, I know that sourcing is key and we're here, we're talking about clinical trials where purity is assured and you know, years ago when so-called RAVs who were really popular, maybe they're still popular, never been one, been to one, so wouldn't know if they're happening or not. That's how in the know I am. But it was clear that, you know, testing for purity was important because sometimes the drugs are made such that there are contaminants like methamphetamine, which we know is highly neurotoxic. I think that one reason why people think that MDM a might be neurotoxic is the, the reported drop in energy or sort of feeling fatigued for a few days afterward.

0 (1h 29m 30s):
Yeah. I spoke to a physician colleague of ours who said that that very likely has something to do with the surgeon prolactin that arrives subsequent to the big dopamine surge that occurs in, in mdma. And I mentioned that because I know a number of people talk about serotonin depletion after taking mdma. He, he has it in mind that while that could be true, it's likely that anytime somebody takes something or does something where there's a huge lift in dopamine, that there's very likely a huge compensatory increase in prolactin that follows in prolactin has a kind of sedative effect, numbing effect on mood and libido, et cetera, that eventually also wears off. Yeah. Does that make sense to you as a physician?

2 (1h 30m 11s):
Yeah, it makes sense. I mean, you know, the difference between say MDMA and ands Sabin is that MDMA is kind of an amphetamine of sorts, right? So it has, it has effects in dopamine and the insul sabins, you know, pretty, pretty neutral and you know, maybe a little bit of dopamine effects, but kind of much more of a serotonergic focused drug. And so yeah, I think you're gonna see kind of a different profile after. And, and that makes, I haven't heard that story, but that makes sense to me too,

0 (1h 30m 38s):
Since you mentioned psilocybin. Let's talk a little bit about the neurochemistry of psilocybin as a serotonergic agent. My understanding is it operates on these, is it the five HT serotonin two C receptor two A, two A, excuse me. Yeah, two A and and receptors. And that I've seen a bunch of different reports in terms of what it's actually doing to the brain while people are under the effects of the drug. And this is important for us to segment out because there are the effects that happen while people are under the influence and then the more long lasting effects. But some of the effects I've heard about are, for instance, and tell me again if these are right or wrong, that there is increased con activation of lateral connection, sort of broader areas of the brain being coactive than would normally occur.

0 (1h 31m 24s):
Maybe that explains some of the synesthesias, you know, seeing sounds and, and hearing colors and that as the trivial example, but rule breaking within the mind. But then I've also heard that perhaps it's lack of gating of sensory input. Yeah. So normally if I'm looking at something, I'm not thinking about the sensation in my right toe unless it's relevant. But if I'm thinking about the sensation in my right toe, I'm generally not thinking about the truck around the corner. So we have these attentional spotlights, but that somehow it creates a more, it adds spotlights. Yeah.

2 (1h 31m 57s):
De negates the

0 (1h 31m 58s):
Thalmus, it negates the thalmus right through the reticular thalmic structure. So what is the evidence that any of that is true? And are there other phenomena? Is there involvement of dors lateral prefrontal cortex that we are aware of? And what I'm really headed here in a few minutes is, you know, is there a place for combining directed stimulation of the brain with psychedelics so that the effects of serotonin could be primarily within the structures that, you know, from your work to be relevant to, to depression. So what, so, but to simplify it, first, what's going on when one takes psilocybin and why is it interesting in light of depression?

2 (1h 32m 37s):
Yeah, definitely. So David Nut and Robin car Harris's work around neuro imaging psychedelics are kind of the, some of the first folks to do that work. And you know, and to their great surprise, they thought there was gonna be an increase in activity on psychedelics. And what they found is the opposite, right? There's kind of a, an overall decrease in the level of activity in the brain with psychedelics, but they, they've also looked at connectivity and there's this kind of small world, you know, large world connectivity that you, you think about. And so, you know, small world, meaning there's a lot, there's kind of a much more kind of focused kind of cortical function or, you know, subcortical function or whatever it is.

2 (1h 33m 18s):
And, and what you see is a difference in that, in that level of engagement of brain regions. The connectivity kind of global connectivity to your point kind of increases. And so, you know, it's, it's, it's interesting, you know, I think to, to kind of have a convergent theory on this, it's still, you know, to be determined. There's still a lot of work I think that needs to be done, but, but it's certainly suggestive that there's pretty profound changes in, in brain activity and brain connectivity after. And what we've found to be really interesting is that the antidepressant effects of psilocybin have a particular connectivity change that we also see with our, our TMS approaches, right?

2 (1h 34m 6s):
And it's this connectivity between the subgenual anterior singlet and the default mode network. And so when we do this effective Stanford neuromodulation therapy stimulation, we see a downregulation, the connectivity between them, negatively balanced mood state in the case of depressed individuals in the self-representation of the brain. And you see that same connectivity change occur post psilocybin, you know, suggesting there's a convergent mechanism and it makes sense, right? You've kind of got an overconnected, negatively balanced system, conflict system that's kind of, you know, kinda attached onto the self representation and people feel stuck, right?

2 (1h 34m 48s):
And then when you, when you do whatever you do that's effective, it, it un it un pairs those two systems.

0 (1h 34m 54s):
I want to ask you about this phenomenon I've heard about during psilocybin journeys. I heard about this from Dr. Matthew Johnson, who's running a lot of the clinical trials at Johns Hopkins and has been a guest on this podcast. He said that there's something seems to be important about the patient who's depressed or who's, and is under the, the influence of psilocybin or the patient who's trying to get a over smoking or an eating disorder who's taking psilocybin and is in the clinic, that there's something important to this notion of letting go, that people will feel as if their thoughts and their feelings and maybe even their body aren't under their control.

0 (1h 35m 34s):
And that the clinician's job under those circumstances is of course to make sure that they're physically safe so they don't jump out a window or try and actually give an example of a patient who thought that, I think it was a, she could move into the painting in the wall, and obviously that wasn't true in the real world, although it was true in her mind. So they prevented her from doing that. But that letting go, that somehow untethering from the autonomic arousal that's occurring is important. Which brings us back to this idea or me back to this idea of, of a, like a seesaw where you're sort of letting go of the hinge Yeah. And just sort of you, your heart rate's going up, like just go with it in trust, you know, your heart rate's going down, just go with it in trust.

0 (1h 36m 14s):
You're thinking about something very powerful and depressing related to your childhood. You're just supposed to go there without fear. You're thinking about what's possible in terms of what could happen. So anyway, you get the, the picture. Can we think of that as, as just the willingness to do a million different variations on the, the emotional stroop task? You know, you will entertain the full, full array of rules within your head and consider them. Or is there something more to it, you know, and again, we're, we're in the, the outer margins of, of understanding here, but what are your thoughts on, on this notion of letting go as such a key variable for relief from depression during this psychedelic journey?

2 (1h 36m 59s):
Yeah, so I, I'll, I'll talk a little bit about something called exposure and response prevention therapy, that that's a typical kind of gold standard treatment for ocd. And I'll help to kind of, you know, he help this a little bit conceptually. And so what that really is, is it's a letting go therapy. And so, you know, exposure and response prevention, the idea is that you have to expose the individual to something that, you know, some, something that triggers an obsession that they then want to do whatever the compulsion is, right? And so I'll give you, you know, my first exposure and response prevention patient when I was a resident, he was very concerned about leaving the lights on his car.

2 (1h 37m 43s):
And, and so what we did is we went out and we turned the lights on in his car and locked his door. So his lights were on and he was super worried, this is gonna kill his battery. And we went and we spent an hour talking about things, and we went back out to his car and his battery was fine and his lights were on, and he cranked the car and we did it maybe one other time, and then all of a sudden that was gone, right? And that's the idea is that, you know, you're essentially exposing and you want to do it at levels that are, from an anxiety standpoint, tolerable, but exposing the person to something and then letting them see that that exposure ends up being fine, right?

2 (1h 38m 28s):
It ends up not causing the thing that they're, that they end up being worried about. And so, you know, in some sense, being in the psychedelic state, and we are all, we are all taught at a level to retain some level of control. You know, people have more or less of that, but we are all effectively retaining some level of control. We all wake up in the morning and put clothes on to go into society. We all try to say, you know, most people try to say the right things. They don't try to do things that are outside of cultural norms when they're in conversation. And so we're, we're constantly at some level controlling the situation that we're in.

2 (1h 39m 9s):
And so it's, you know, it's not, it makes a lot of sense that in that state, part of the therapeutic effect that may be linked to the neural circuitry is this idea of letting go and essentially letting the system, you know, the network configuration, maybe whatever it is, assume a state that you've essentially been fighting the whole time. The same way that my OCD patient was fighting this need to click the off button on the lights of his car 50 times before he would go and do whatever he needed to do. And in some level, letting go there, meaning letting us just turn the lights on and him not do anything or letting go.

2 (1h 39m 55s):
Meaning in the psychedelic state, you're just letting go of whatever it is you're holding onto negatively balanced think thoughts about yourself in the, in the, you know, setting of having depression or, you know, re-experiencing a trauma, you know, memory and allowing that to just happen and re seeing it again through a different light. You know, it feels the same in the sense that that's allowing for whatever's going on with these psychedelic states to do whatever they do.

0 (1h 40m 25s):
It's fascinating. You said it's exposure response therapy is the

2 (1h 40m 29s):
Judicial name exposure response prevention,

0 (1h 40m 31s):
Prevention therapy done outside of the, of the psychedelic journey.

2 (1h 40m 35s):
It's done outside the psychedelic journey. But that idea of letting go is, is, you know, present in both of those, you know, psychotherapy kind of straight up, totally sober, non psychedelic, non anything psycho manualized psychotherapy that we know works really well for O C D. And then, you know, in that psychedelic state, and so people have done studies with, with psilocybin, and now there's some studies with MDMA trying to look at, you know, treating o c d, you know, with this same sort of idea of letting go, right? And, and how do you, how do you have an OCD patient kind of let go, maybe even letting go of not washing their hands anymore, you know, kind of accepting the idea they're not gonna get germs in their hands or whatever it is, you know?

2 (1h 41m 20s):
And so it's kind of part of that part and parcel, that same sort of thinking.

0 (1h 41m 24s):
When I was in college, I developed a compulsive superstition. I'm not afraid to admit this, I'm somehow developed a knock on wood superstition. And I would, I was actually kind of shamed by of it because it rationally made no sense. I'm not, I don't consider myself a superstitious person, never was a superstitious kid. You know, I'd step on the sidewalk cracks, I'd, I'd walk under ladders, you know, I'd probably even try to walk under a ladder even though I don't suggest it. But somehow I picked this thing up and, and I used to sneak it at times. I told my girlfriend at the time that I had it in hopes that that would prevent me from doing it. And it's, it's tricky. Sometimes it actually comes back where I think, gosh, I didn't say, you know, knock on wood, I didn't knock on wood.

0 (1h 42m 7s):
I hope that doesn't actually happen. And it's, and it's quote unquote crazy, right? But I crazy in the sense that it makes no sense rationally why the events would be linked. And yet I think a lot of people out there do have in internal superstitions, maybe by talking about it now, it'll, it'll go away. I just clearly, I just need to challenge it. Yeah. You know, it's, anyway, I mention it because I, I consider myself, you know, generally rational person, but it's interesting how these motor patterns get, get activated and, and this notion of letting go, because I don't actually know what consequence I fear. And the fear, as I was hearing the example you gave, you know, the fear of the car running, battery running down, I was about to say, well, what if the battery actually did run out?

0 (1h 42m 48s):
Then the therapy would be undermined. And yet that could also be interesting too, because it's not that big of a deal. You jumped the car. Yeah, that's right. But in my case, I, I need to think about what the ultimate fear is.

2 (1h 42m 59s):
Yeah. And I, you know, I, I think, I think a lot of people, so there's, it's interesting if you look at say the OCD scale or the depression scale or whatever, we don't define normal as zero. We define normal as some number range above. So zero to, in the case of the Montgomery Asberg depression rating scale, one of the depression scales we use 10, right? That's the normal range. And so people can have some sadness and still be considered normal. In the case, the OCD scale, it's about the same 10, right? Where we say it's kind of starts to be, you know, ab you know, mildly abnormal or something. And I always, you know, I'd always tell the medical students, Look, my friends that are surf instructors, they're more like a zero on the Y box.

2 (1h 43m 43s):
People that are professionals, you know, they're, they're, they're non-zero, but you're, it's still within the normal range. And, and especially, you know, in the, in the case that you're talking about, it doesn't sound like it got in your way. It doesn't sound, I mean, you, you're obviously highly successful tenured professor at Stanford and do all the, the great things that you do. And so it's, it's very much kind of within the normal range. And ex I think totally, totally assumed that a lot of people have have these sorts of things. And as long, I think something, a psychiatric diagnosis when it severely impairs your ability to function. And that's when we kind of cross that threshold.

2 (1h 44m 23s):
But, you know, I think that, I think that a lot of people, and it's great that you're bringing this up. I mean, it's very antis stigmatizing that you're bringing up, right? Because I think a lot of people hold that stuff in and they don't want to talk about it because they're worried that somebody else may think something. But the, the reality is, as a psychiatrist, I talk to a lot of patients, a lot of people that are, you know, family members, you know, folks that are just going through a death in the family, whatever it is. And what you figure out is like, everybody's got a little something here and there. Everybody has the knock in some way, if that makes sense. And it's just, and we are, we're just all, we're all just kind of more predisposed not to talk about it. But I think it's important to talk about it because I think that when we start all talking about it, then we realize that we're all kind of in this together in a way.

2 (1h 45m 9s):
And that we're, and then some folks that, you know, have, you know, have to knock a hundred times, we call that O C D when, you know, and they have all, you know, germ, they're worried about germs and all these other things. We call that O C D. And then in that circumstance, you know, they need treatment, right? But, but it is really on just like blood sugar, just like blood pressure. It's on a range, you know? And it's not just these discrete diagnoses, you have them or you don't.

0 (1h 45m 35s):
It's good to know. I actually feel some relief just hearing this because I am slightly, I wouldn't say ashamed, sort, embarrassed by it, but I, I, I offer it as a, you know, that, you know, it, it is what it is as they say. Yeah, sure. And it certainly doesn't seem to hinder, hinder my, my life much, knock on wood. Nice. So if we could talk a bit about iga. I, I'm, I don't know much about iga, although anytime I hear the, you know, i e you know, lidocaine, iboga, I think of an anesthetic, Yeah. And going to the dentist, which is an unpleasant experience for me, generally, what's I, what is igan, does this have anything to do with the so-called toad?

0 (1h 46m 20s):
You know, people talk about smoking, frog skin, towed skin. What is it used for clinically? Is it legal in the US in terms as a clinical tool, who's using it and for what purposes? If you could educate me on iboga, I truly know nothing about it, except I think I know how to spell it

2 (1h 46m 39s):
Correctly. Yeah, that's fair. Yeah. So, so Iboga is a, is one of the alkaloids that you can extract from a iboga tree root bark that's typically growing in the comp in the country of Gaon Africa. So Gau is one of the West African countries, kind of middle of Africa on the west coast. And, and Gau is, has a group of folks, you know, called the Oui.

2 (1h 47m 20s):
It's a religious kind of sacramental group that Sacramentally uses. Iboga root bark is part of, of that this, this sacrament. And they, they've been using iboga root bark for a very long time. And it's, it's, you know, part of the tradition. There's a whole, there's a whole set of, of kind of ceremony around it. If you're interested in this. There's a book called Breaking Open the Head by Daniel Pinchbeck that goes, goes through and talks about this, this whole process. But essentially the Gs been using this for a long time.

2 (1h 48m 1s):
And, and it's a, it's a kind of an atypical psychedelic, It's not, it's not a psychedelic that we normally think about with psilocybin and LSD where there are visual perceptual changes, right? So if you, if you take sil psilocybin or lsd, what you, what you experience is you experience these kind of visual perceptual differences in the external world, right? And on enough LSD or psilocybin, an individual can actually perceive something visually in the external world that isn't there. As we talked about earlier, Ivy doesn't do that. Ivy game does something different. It, it's kind of like, have you ever seen a minority report with, you know, a movie with Tom Cruise, I think 15 or 20 years ago or something?

2 (1h 48m 45s):
So it dates us a little bit, but it was this, it was this movie where he would be able to go and see these kind of pre-crime. And he had this big, you know, this big screen where he could look at scenes from, from time and like kind of go through that scene and see it. And so what, what individuals taking IGA will say is that open eyes, they don't see anything but closed eyes. They'll go back through and re-experience earlier life memories and they will be able to experience it from a place of empathy, not only for themselves, but for others. And kind of a detached empathy and being able to see this as almost a third party, even though they were there.

2 (1h 49m 30s):
But they're able to see it, you know, as a third party. So Claudia Naranjo, a psychiatrist from Argentina, you know, described this to a lot of books that, that he wrote in I think the eighties and nineties around this. And so, you know, Ivy's been around for a long time. Howard Lotof, American guy that brought it over from, from Africa. He was a poly substance user, used every drug, you know, you know, that he had his hands on, took Iboga and including a lot of other psychedelics, by the way, took Iboga and then never did another drug again, supposedly, cuz he had such a profound iboga experience. Iboga is in no way a recreational substance. It's not a recreational substance if you want it to be a recreational substance because you're essentially having this, what they call life review.

2 (1h 50m 15s):
They also call it 10 years of psychotherapy in a night. So these are the terminology that people talk about the issue. How long does it last? Is it truly one night? It's u it's usually, you know, it can go depending upon if you get re dosed or anything go sometimes, depending upon how fast you metabolize it, sometimes 24, sometimes 36 hours. Sometimes it can be shorter, but it is a long time. Wow. It's a very long time. So it's, it's definitely the longest acting psychedelic substance I know of. And, and so people, people you will take this and they'll, they'll have this reevaluation of the a given memory and then as we were talking about earlier, reconsolidate that memory again.

2 (1h 50m 57s):
And then it seems to have, you know, an effective of that reconsolidation process. And so, you know, about 5, 4, 5 years ago I was tapped by Rob Robert Malka, one of the, you know, senior neuroscientists we both know in the university. And he says, Well, there's a, you know, there's an unnamed donor that's very interested in, in funding a group, you know, a scientific kind of open label study of, of these Navy seals that have been going down to Mexico and taking Iboga and also five EO dmt, which I'll talk about in a second, to treat ptsd. You know, they claim to have traumatic brain injury, depression, you know, that whole constellation of symptoms, you know, and as it was described to me by various people that had done this by their spouses and and whatnot, you know, John, we'll just say John, John couldn't screw a light into a light, a light bulb into a light fixture, right?

2 (1h 51m 56s):
They, they just, they were just so debilitated they couldn't do kinda simple tasks, what we call activities of daily living. And they were coming back and having these really dramatic improvements in, in, you know, all aspects of, of life. And so, you know, we have over the last couple of years been able to, to do this first in human kind of full neurobiological, clinical neurocognitive evaluation of what Iboga is doing in this case, in, in special operations, special forces, individuals, former Navy Seals former army rangers that, that kind of crew folks, and look at the pre-post changes that we, that their experience will be able to totally quantitate all of that.

2 (1h 52m 41s):
And so we've been able to capture all the clinical scales, you know, depression scales, PTSD scales, all that standard stuff, neurocognitive batteries. So how does your executive function work? Specifically? How does your verbal memory, all of that, And then neuro imaging and eeg. So this will be the first human study of iboga for those. And the reason why is because IBO gains kind of the, both seemingly the most potent and most in, in most seemingly, to me at least, most powerful psychedelic, But the, the one that has the most risk too, because it has a cardiac effect. It seems to be that you can screen people out that have risk off of their electrocardiogram and, and reduce the risk quite a bit.

2 (1h 53m 24s):
And that's what we, we all did. But, but, but that's why people haven't really studied it as much. And it's, it isn't as in addition, there's like no re nobody goes to rave on Iboga. There's no recreation at all with this. It's not fun. It's, people say that it's relieving, but it's hard work, right? Because yeah, you're re you're reexamining things and you know, and so then, so then we, we, we see these folks after, and I'll, I'll tell you, you know, we haven't fully analyzed the data yet, but I'll tell you that, you know, from, from what my folks are telling me, it's pretty dramatic. You know, people come back and they're doing, they're doing a lot better. They're doing a lot better.

2 (1h 54m 6s):
And no, nobody, I'll knock on wood, nobody's had any sort of cardiac issue at all in, you know, in, in the cohort that we've studied and, and they look a lot better. And they feel a lot better too. And, and they describe these experiences of being able to go back through and, you know, soldiers experienced something called moral injury, right? Where they, maybe they accidentally blew something up and then had a kid in it or something like that, you know, you know, if they're in Afghanistan or Iraq, maybe, you know, child died on accident or maybe, maybe, you know, a civilian died or whatever it was, right? And they, and they suffer these moral injuries as part of the job.

2 (1h 54m 46s):
And it's almost one of the kind of, you know, vocational risks. They come back and say that they've, they've, they've forgiven themselves, you know, which is, which is huge, right? And, and part of that is being able to see themself in a different light and having empathy finally for themself and being able to kind of have that experience of, of forgiving. And so, so very cool. The, the study, you know, what was happening was they were taking iboga and then taking something called five EO dmt. People call the Toad, it's the Sonora River to, I think it's like you find these in Mexico, find 'em in Arizona. In the back of the, the, the Toad produces something called five EO dmt, which is a, you know, flavor of DMT that produces a particular psychedelic effect also used as a sacrament

0 (1h 55m 39s):
Is a, a dimethyltryptamine,

2 (1h 55m 41s):
Is that It is, it is a five EO EO dime, methyl trip tomine. So it's a kind of dime methyl trip tomine with, with a kind of addition to it. The, the deal there is that it lasts longer than traditional dmt, you know, it's like 20 minutes at five or three or whatever kind of thing. And, and so then, so these guys were taking iga and then they would take the five EO DMT after we had to kind of divorce those two things and be able to do the study and just understand what IGA was doing. And they go back down a month later and they'll do the five EO dmt.

0 (1h 56m 15s):
So two completely separate sessions,

2 (1h 56m 17s):
Two, two completely separate sessions. And

0 (1h 56m 18s):
Then one quick question about iga before a bit more on five EO DMT is the Igan journey guided, or the person just closes their eyes and they just start falling into the back catalog of memories.

2 (1h 56m 30s):
They have a bunch of preparatory sessions, and then they have a bunch of sessions after that. They kind of, they're able to kind of rehash things during, there's a sitter that sits there and kind of sits with them and, and, and helps them out. But it's not, it's pretty, the phenomenon of the drug seems to drive a lot of this, right? And so a lot of it ends up being what we call supportive psychotherapy or just kind of being there and, you know, maybe you're holding the person's hand, maybe you're just saying I'm here, or maybe whatever it is, but you're making sure they know you're around, but you're not really, there's not really an interaction per se. And then the whole kind of goal there is just to get, to get folks to kind of go back through and reexamine these memories then ultimately look, look like they re reconsolidate them.

2 (1h 57m 17s):
And you know, it's very interesting. I mean, there's a, there's this kind of, Tim, as you said earlier, Timothy Lary kind of sociocultural construct that ends up being overlaid over psychedelics. And what I think is that if you rid yourself of all of those preconceived notions of what it is and isn't, and the counter culture movement, all that stuff, that neither of us were ever involved in, neither of us are ever partake in, you know, is is kind of straight scientists looking at this, right? If you can kind of rid yourself of all those sociocultural constructions and then reexamine this, these, if we just discovered these today, we would say that these sorts of drugs are a huge breakthrough in psychiatry because they allow for us to do a lot of the sorts of things we've been thinking about with, with SSRIs, with psychotherapy, but kind of combined, right?

2 (1h 58m 10s):
Psychotherapy plus, plus drugs in a, in a substance that kind of allows you to reexamine these things. And so it's, it's interesting. It'll, you know, there's a lot to do to try to figure out if that's true, you know? And, and I can say that as it stands right now, we don't know if it's that statement is true, right? There's a lot more work that needs to happen for that statement to be proven to be true. But the hypothesis is, if it is true, then it's very likely that this will be seen as a breakthrough because it allows you to do these sorts of things that you can't do with normal waking consciousness. But also why we have to really think about this.

2 (1h 58m 51s):
And, you know, these drugs can't be recreational drugs. They really shouldn't be recreational drugs, right? They're really too powerful to be used in the context of recreation because they can put you into these states and, and the, this generation of psychedelic researchers are really clear about that. You know, I think the sixties folks were not clear about that, and they, they felt like there was this whole kind of cultural thing that was going on there. But I think this cohort of individuals really understands that in order to really make this happen, we have to understand that if you need a prescription for an ssri, which doesn't change your consciousness a whole lot, and we we're very worried about that, and the doctor has to evaluate you for that every week, that the idea that some of these substances would, would go outside of, of very strict medical supervision is, is kind of preposterous actually.

2 (1h 59m 47s):
It's kind of, it's kind of a, a dumb moment I think for, for all of medicine to say, Look, we've, you know, if we're gonna do this right, we've gotta do it such a way that's so protected, that's so safe that we make sure people know these things are not recreational. And they're really for the pure purposes of, of really powerfully changing cognition for a while and letting people have these what seemed to be, you know, relatively therapeutic states.

0 (2h 0m 14s):
I think it's great that you're doing this study. And along the lines of the sort of the early iterations of psychedelics and the counterculture of the sixties and seventies, some of which took place, like one floor of the Cuckoo's Nest, I think is actually based on the Menlo Park va, which is That's right. You know, in our neighborhood of Stanford and things are quite a bit different now. I know you and I have spent some time with the operators and former operators at an event and last Veterans Day, in fact the so-called Veterans solutions group that's pioneering a lot of these psychedelic treatments for former special operators and current special operators. And what's interesting to me about that is in contrast to the counterculture movement of the sixties and seventies, that room was filled with people that are very much of a structure, the military.

0 (2h 1m 1s):
Yeah. Right? So it's no longer considered left wing, right wing, anti-military, pro-military here. This isn't just, but one group of people who's exploring psychedelics as a treatment for trauma and PTSD and other, other things. And of course you also have other domains of society looking at this. And in fact, there were, it was really interesting because there were both far left and far right politicians at, at that event that's right up on stage together. That's right. Talking about in kind of lighter terms heart medicine, but also talking about neurobiology and talk. It was just fascinating from a, from the perspective of somebody who's trying to learn about this stuff, that psychedelic therapies no longer sit within the anti-establishment realm.

0 (2h 1m 44s):
It's, it's both, It's, it's, it's independent of all that. Certainly when people in the military are adopting it as a potential treatment. Absolutely. Again, still under exploration, but also under exploration at universities like Stanford and Johns Hopkins and U C S F and University College London and on and on, along the lines of tree barks and towed skins. Tell me about Iowa OCA and as a plant, you know, it's intriguing and is it a proce drug like psilocybin? And is it useful for the same sorts of conditions that we've talked about thus far? And if you could perhaps tell me a little bit also about the Brazilian prisoner study.

0 (2h 2m 27s):
Yeah, yeah,

2 (2h 2m 29s):
Definitely. Iowaska is another psychedelic. It's used as a sacrament in, in Brazil and in Peru and Ecuador and Columbia. So a lot of the South American countries. And, and what they do is they combine two plants together, w where one plant of the two plant combination would effectively do nothing but the two plant combination together is capable of producing, producing this very profound psychedelic effect. And what's really kind of curious is that there, as I understand it, 10 to 20,000 plant species in the Amazon.

2 (2h 3m 14s):
And somehow somebody still

0 (2h 3m 16s):
Tried 'em all

2 (2h 3m 18s):
Combined these two plants together and certain proportionality and cooked this for five, 10 hours to the point where you cook out the dime methyl tryptamine outta one of the plants and cook out the reversible mono oxidase inhibitor outta the other plant. It's such a way that the reversible mono oxidase inhibitor prevents the, the GI breakdown of the dimethyltryptamine in such a way that it's then allowed to cross the blood brain barrier and get into the brain. And if you didn't add the reversible mono oxidase inhibitor plant derived into this combination, then it would never cross the brain.

2 (2h 3m 59s):
If you put people on a standard psychiatry prescribed mono oxidase inhibitor that wasn't reversible, you'd, you'd throw them into serotonin syndrome. Right? So this kind of like sweet spot that somehow iowasca practitioners have found of being able to get DMT into the brain from an oral source with this combination of a mono oxidase inhibitor is curious. And so that, that substance has been explored as an antidepressant agent, and some studies have looked at that. It also seems to be very safe there. There's a, there's a psychiatrist down at UCLA Harbor who's done a lot of work with this, where where he's looked at children even that have been exposed to, to kinda small doses of iowasca is, is kind of a sacrament within Amazonian tribes and found no neurocognitive effects, no neurocognitive effects in adults.

2 (2h 4m 57s):
And, and so it appears to be safe. It's part of, it's kind of part and brought into various religions including kind of merged with Catholicism in South America, which is kind of very interesting. And so, you know, in some sex of Catholicism in Brazil, it's used as sacrament during religious ceremonies. And so it became interesting to Brazilian researchers as to whether or not they could affect recidivism rates for prisoners in Brazilian prisons, right? So they gave half of the prisoners, you know, some sort of inert substance in half of the prisoners, a, an AKA session.

2 (2h 5m 42s):
And the, the recidivism rate or the return to prison rate in the ayahuasca exposed individuals with statistically significantly lower than the recidivism rate in the, in the control group suggesting that, you know, whatever is going on there seems to have an effect on whatever drives criminal behavior, whatever criminal behavior that happened to be. And I don't have the, the details on the exact nature of the crime, you know? No, I am also in no way saying that we should just be giving psychedelics to, to, to folks in prison and all of that. I think that that, that, that is a very edgy thing to do and probably not something that anybody should try, but, but it does, it does kind of bring up this, this curious question of, of what is it about that that would drive people to, to change those behaviors and, and why, why do people make those behavioral decisions?

2 (2h 6m 35s):
And, and a lot of times if you look at prisons in the United States, you know, you set, people say this, what's the biggest mental health facility in the, in the United States? It's prison.

0 (2h 6m 46s):
Yeah. There's a a lot to unpack there for sure. You know, the homeless issue, the prison issue, it does lead to something that I heard recently, which is related to all this, which is cannabis. You know, we hear a lot nowadays about people will say, Well, it's safer than alcohol. And we did an episode on alcohol that, at least by my read of the literature, indeed alcohol does seem to be quite bad for our health beyond, I think, and it's pretty clear that not drinking is better for your health than drinking at all. And here I'm not trying to tell people what to do, but those are what the data say. And forget the studies on red wine, you'd have to drink so much red wine to get enough Vera trl.

0 (2h 7m 27s):
It's not even clear Vera TRL does anything used for anyway, et cetera, et cetera. Nonetheless, cannabis is now available in a lot of very high potency forms. People are vaping, cannabis people are smoking cannabis. I certainly am not saying that cannabis is bad for people necessarily, although I think children, I would like hope that their brain development would be, be completed first, you know, get to age 25. I know that sounds late for a lot of people, but the, the THC obviously taps into some endogenous systems of, of, of, and the cannabinoid systems and is powerful. And I've seen this, this report that was in Lancet Psychiatry this last year that said that early use of potent cannabis, meaning age 14 to 20 or so, can potentially lead to an exacerbation of psychosis Yeah.

0 (2h 8m 20s):
Later in life. Yep. And I actually put this out on social media and it sort of exploded. Yeah. I didn't expect it to. And people were saying, well, that's not causal. And obviously it's not causal because people say, Well, maybe people with psychotic tendencies are seeking out cannabis. Although that's sort of a weak argument in, in the sense that there's a, a at least a four times, four x increase in these psychotic episodes for people later in life. But what are your thoughts about cannabis? Because I do wanna acknowledge that it does have medical benefits for certain things. Yep. A pain chemotherapy. So by no means trying to, to knock on cannabis in its appropriate medicinal use. But what, what should we think about cannabis in terms of this finding that I can exacerbate a psychosis in certain individuals?

2 (2h 9m 7s):
Yeah. So I think, you know, there's this kind, there's a couple of things, right? So cannabis is, is multiple, you know, cannabinoids, right, Right.

0 (2h 9m 15s):
Thc, cbd, cbn, that's rights. And you know, indicas, it gets, Yeah, there's a lot there to unpack.

2 (2h 9m 22s):
Yeah. There's a, there's a lot. There's, but there are two, there are two main, you know, kind of chemicals you think about and kind of how things are, are, are, are essentially bred. Right? And so, you know, there's a lot of cannabis that's really bred to be very high, very potent thc. And there's a lot, and there's cannabis where the THCs bred completely out. So there's stories, you know, from, from Colorado, right? This, this strain of, of cannabis that's THC free, there's no THC at all, and it's all C B D and they, it's called Charlotte's Web. And a bunch of kids parents, one kid, and then kind of a string of parents after that moved to Colorado when cannabis was legal because legalized, because C B D is antiepileptic, so C B D is also antipsychotic.

2 (2h 10m 14s):
And so there have been a number of studies that if you give C B D at high doses, it's antipsychotic in schizophrenic, established schizophrenic patients. The issue is that we've bred CBD out of marijuana selectively over time. We've gotten very good at figuring out how to do that, right? Conversely, THC is pro psychotic and pro epileptic, right? And so when you talk about is cannabis cause psychosis or does cannabis treat psychosis, it appears to be more related to the proportions of CBD to thc, then it does to the kind of idea of cannabis.

2 (2h 10m 55s):
So for me, there's a, there's a, and I have no stock in this or anything like that, but there's a company called GW Pharmaceuticals, and I haven't looked into them in a while, but they, they, they have a lot of clinical trials for something called Dravet's syndrome, which is a seizure or disorder where kids sees a whole lot Linux, Gusto Syndrome, which is a seizure disorder. Kids are seizing 300 times a day. Both of these are like, kids are seizing so much, they, they're basically in a seizure or in the postictal phase constantly. And, and they've failed everything. They've failed barbiturates, They've failed bromides, which we just don't use anymore except into these cases because of the side effects. And they'll give kids cbd.

2 (2h 11m 36s):
And I think CBD is a pretty safe drug compared to bromide, right? And so this idea that that c b in a kid is actually safe, it's, it's, it's a cannabinoid, but it's CBD and it's safe, right? And so that to me is totally fine. Also giving CBD in as an adjunct of treatment for, for schizophrenia, there have been some positive trials and negative trials in that, but there seems to be no negative side effects. It seems to reduce some of the metabolic syndrome issues in, in folks with schizophrenia who are having side effects from the primary antipsychotic. The, the converse is, there's clearly cases where people that are taking very high doses of THC become psychotic.

2 (2h 12m 19s):
They get put into the psychiatric unit, nothing happens other than they, they kind of get the THC outta their system and then they resolve their psychosis, right? And so that, that, and you know, a handful of people who have had, you know, seizures related to, to high doses of THC and syncope and all sorts of things. And so this idea that THC, high doses of THC can be pro psychotic is also not taking a shot at people that think that cannabis overall is a good thing. It's just, it, it's just is what it is. And the kind of pure, if you, I think if you zoom back and you say you're a true naturalist, you're thinking about natural medicines in the world, you should think, well, probably marijuana was balanced thc, C B D at some point, and then we just, we humans messed with it, right?

2 (2h 13m 7s):
And, and that most likely, that was probably okay at some level, and then we pushed it one way or another. And what I mean by okay, is in a 45 year old it's okay, kind of thing. Now, what I think is going on with the, with the kids, with the teenagers is you've got prefrontal maturation, right? And then you're exposing them, them to a whole lot of high THC load. And while it's unclear if it's, if it's cause or effect, it's certainly in the picture. And if I were a parent, I wouldn't want my 16 year old smoking marijuana if I were a parent and my 30 year old otherwise healthy, totally fine.

2 (2h 13m 55s):
You know, whatever banker, lawyer, kid decided to try marijuana for the first time I went and scold them about it, Right? So I think it's, it's kind of a different thing, right? I would never want my up to 25 year old, just like you're saying before, prefrontal maturation of never want my kid to be exposed at all. But it looks like, except in, you know, susceptible individuals that are susceptible to drug induced psychosis, it looks like, you know, it's a, it's a relatively safe thing past prefrontal maturation. You know, again, I can't, I'm not gonna comment of cause and effect, but I, but I would say that, you know, it doesn't, if you're a parent, it doesn't make much sense, right?

2 (2h 14m 38s):
It might, you know, you want to, you never know what's ultimately gonna hurt your kid. I mean, you know, my wife's, we were talking about this earlier, My wife's pregnant now, she, she kind of avoids everything, right? Rightfully so, right? This idea that we just, we want to be careful when our children's brains are developing. And I think that's really what you were saying. And I think actually important, the bigger question that you asked, which is relative risks of drugs is an interesting one. So David Nut published in, I think it was in The Lancet, I'll have to look it up, but I think in the Lancet, an article about relative drug risks for the person and for society. And this was like, he was on the, the, the UK's like British Drug Policy Group, where essentially what he showed was if you took, if you look at societal risk plus personal risk, and you combine those two, you know what drug is the most dangerous drug in the world,

0 (2h 15m 33s):
I'm gonna guess it's

2 (2h 15m 34s):
Alcohol. It's alcohol, right behind heroin and cocaine and da da da. And somewhere in the middle is marijuana. And right on the tail end, on the other, on the exact other end of this, psilocybin

0 (2h 15m 48s):
Is caffeine usually doesn't make the list. I,

2 (2h 15m 50s):
I, it may have been on the list, it was, if it was, it was probably pretty close to psilocybin, but somewhere in the middle was ketamine, Somewhere in the middle was, was, was amphetamine somewhere in the, you know, a little closer to psilocybin, I think was mdma, you know, But, but if it's, it's this combined personal, you know, kind of world risk of these things. And so alcohol makes it, because there's a huge amount of personal risk, and there's a huge amount of societal risk, right? Drunk drivers kill X amount of ki you know, people in the world

0 (2h 16m 21s):
Fight sexual assaults, all that,

2 (2h 16m 24s):
All that, Yeah. And then all the cancer and all that stuff. And so it, it beats out cocaine, it beats out heroin, it beats out all of these things. And, and yet, and yet we don't, we don't, as a culture for whatever reason, we don't as a culture see it as a drug. And that's the part that really baffles me. You know?

0 (2h 16m 45s):
And I'm, I mean, they serve it. I mean, this is no knock on Stanford at all. Of course I wouldn't do that. This is at every institution I've been to, they serve alcohol at the graduate student events. That's

2 (2h 16m 55s):
Right.

0 (2h 16m 56s):
You know, they serve alcohol. They, we, they do a happy hour. I've never been a drinker. I can take it or leave it. So same. And I realize that some people, they really enjoy alcohol. Yeah. You know, my former partner, I mean, she just was in that, you know, 10% or so of people who have a glass of wine and just feel great. And the second one feel great. I, I just want to take a nap after I, I have a bit of alcohol, so it never does much for me. I always feel poisoned. I feel lucky in that sense. But it's, it's unbelievable that it is so prevalent and it's, it's just, it's baked into the medical, even medical institutions, they'll pop a bottle of champagne to celebrate the opening of a

2 (2h 17m 33s):
Hospital. That's right. That's right.

0 (2h 17m 35s):
It's pretty crazy.

2 (2h 17m 36s):
Yeah, no, you're absolutely right. You know, I think, I think what's gonna happen, but this is me, you know, looking at crystal ball a little bit, but I think what's gonna happen is what happened with doctors and smoking. So if you look at the fifties and sixties, right? There are all these pictures of doctors smoking cigarettes, it, you know, with patients or, you know, psychiatrists doing psychotherapy and smoking a cigarette with the patient sitting on the couch, you know, surgeons smoking a cigarette in between cases, there are all these pictures of that, right? And now all of a sudden smoking's totally banned. I think it's totally banned for most of Stanford campus. My suspicion is, is as you're suggesting, right, you know, this is everywhere and it's all kinda ubiquitous at some critical point, some tipping point.

2 (2h 18m 16s):
Everybody's gonna realize that, just like with smoking, we've got a rid hospital systems and universities of alcohol. And at some point in 50 years, it's my view that we'll look it back at these, these scenarios that you're talking about and, and be like, you know what, we, we were foolish about this. We, I can't believe that we, we gave people alcohol on the way, you know, when they graduated from whatever, you know, And I think we'll have a different take on it, but it's gonna take, it's gonna take a longer time. I think, I think people did a really good job tying smoking to lung cancer. And it's like very, a very simplistic story. Smoking, lung cancer, you know, now, you know, as you know, alcohol increases the risk of a lot of different cancers.

2 (2h 19m 3s):
Not so clear which one, I mean, there's like, you know, the kind of oral, like the throat, tongue cancer, that's one of breast

0 (2h 19m 9s):
Cancer.

2 (2h 19m 9s):
Yeah. Breast cancer, you know? And so it's, it's kind of, it's a harder story to tell, you know? And I think that's why, and everybody, you know, and then there's this whole, it's, you know, my mom says this. It's like I drink my glass of wine because my doctor told me it was heart healthy and we were talking about this, and I try to, No, no, no. But, but Dr so and so said it's heart healthy. And so it ends up being this thing where like, she's drinking alcohol because she thinks that it's, it's good for her heart. And, you know, and it's, it's hard. I've had those conversations with her. It's hard to untie that. And I think that, yeah, at some point we're going to hit some, some threshold moment. And it'll be interesting if we really look at the data and we really look at what's safe and not safe from purely from this analysis, it kind of, it kind of points to the right direction.

0 (2h 19m 59s):
It's really interesting. And also saying nothing of poor judgment under the influence of alcohol. I mean, I, I would venture that if we were to remove alcohol from university campuses, watch, watch, the students are gonna lobby against me if I say this. But that's fair. If you were to remove alcohol from campuses, I mean, just think about the, the, what I suspect would be the improvement in good decision making. Oh, yeah. And, and that would occur. Or, you know, I've got stories from graduate school and put, it was very different, you know, 10 years ago there was a lot more alcohol consumption. Again, that was never my thing, but I know people who made really bad decisions. In any case, there's a whole landscape there emerging.

0 (2h 20m 40s):
I think you got your finger right on the pulse of it. I, I want to touch on something slightly different than what we've been talking about, but definitely related to depression. And this again, is one of these intriguing but perplexing things, which is that sleep deprivation Can improve symptoms of depression. And yet I'm personally very familiar with the fact that if I don't sleep well for one night or don't sleep at all, in fact I do have an ability to function pretty well. The next day I'll do this sleep deep rest practice that I blab a lot about on the Huberman Lab podcast, which is, for me is tremendously restorative, but I like a good night's sleep. I think everybody understands now thanks to the great work of Matthew Walker and others that have really gotten out into the world saying, Look, the foundation of mental health, physical health and high performance, if that's your thing, being a functional human being, is to try and get enough quality deep sleep at least 80% of the nights of your life if you can.

0 (2h 21m 36s):
Yeah. That's, that's something to focus on. Just like good nutrition, just like exercise and social connection, et cetera. So sleep deprivation we know can, in particular, I think rapid eye movement components of sleep deprivation can improve the symptoms of depression. And yet being sleep deprived can also really dysregulate our control of the autonomic system. I notice on night two or night three of poor sleep, if I'm going through a stressful phase and that's happening, all of a sudden my heart rate is chronically elevated, my thought patterns become really disrupted. I can't then exercise, do my decision making is thrown off. My emotionality is more laid. The hinge as we were referring to it earlier, feels less in control under my control.

0 (2h 22m 19s):
And maybe I wonder sometimes if I enter that state that you referred to earlier where the dos lateral prefrontal cortex is no longer leading the singular, but the singular is now in charge, the players are in charge of the coach. Yeah. Not a good situation. So I know you've done some work on sleep deprivation and light and effects. Please tell us about that and please tell us about this triple therapy. Is

2 (2h 22m 41s):
That Yeah, yeah. So friend of mine, Greg Salem, one, another one of the professors at Stanford was very interested in sleep. He did a bunch of, bunch of training in sleep before he went to medical school and, and got very interested in this idea that, as you're saying, if you sleep deprived somebody one night in just kind of an isolated single night at the, at the end of that sleep deprivation, they will have an antidepressant effect, but as soon as they fall asleep, they lose it. So if it's a depressed individual, you can get them to be less depressed acutely. As soon as they fall asleep, they wake up eight hours later, then they come, they come back into the same level of depression.

2 (2h 23m 22s):
And so the idea is that you needed to do some sort of circadian reset. And that part of what, part of what depression is, is that it's a dysregulated circadian system. And so mentors of mine say, if you can just get the sleep better, that's half the battle of dealing with depression. Cuz so many people have insomnia around depression and have a whole host of types of insomnia fallen, having a hard time falling asleep, waking up in the middle of the night and waking up earlier, all symptoms of depression. And so what this does is it sleep deprives the individual and then there's a certain calculation of shifting their phase and simultaneously exposing them to bright lights.

2 (2h 24m 3s):
So that's the triple the phase shift, the sleep deprivation and the bright light to try to get their circadian rhythm. Essentially the, the theory is reintrained. And so, you know, in the, in the trials that we've done and other trials prior to ours and, and after, you know, it looked like there was a pretty, pretty profound antidepressant effect from this triple the, this triple therapy that seemed to be durable, meaning durability is this term we use to say that not only can you get kind of point relief, but that the relief ends up, you know, lasting. What's important to know about this is like, you shouldn't do this at home for sure.

2 (2h 24m 44s):
This what you would need to do this with a professional. Cuz it's complicated. It's not just one thing and it in sleep deprivation, while it seems to be antidepressant, it's pro anxiety. So if you take a highly anxious person that's not depressed and you sleep deprived them, they get profoundly anxious. And so that's the other thing that, that you have to really realize is that this is like everything else that I've talked about today, all things that you, you have to do under medical supervision, but, but curious, right? And, and I think, you know, the question always comes up is why isn't this used more? And I think the reason is that there's not really a mechanism for, you know, ultimately in medicine, medicine, as sad as it is, you have to have a code to do a thing.

2 (2h 25m 26s):
There has to be a code associated with a treatment and it's hard to figure out how to make a code for this. And so I think that's part of it. And so if, if there's a way and somebody's gotta kind of take that baton on that, but if there's a way to make a code for this, you know, I think you could, you could actually, you know, turn it into something that was more widely, widely utilized and, you know, probably dream up ways of how to, how to integrate ai, passive sensing all that stuff to really make that work. But I think that would be, that would be the, the idea that would be the trajectory I'd see. So,

0 (2h 26m 2s):
Yeah. Yeah, having a billable to insurance code is, is fundamental. And a lot of listeners to this podcast, I, I think have a background in engineering science and we, we will put a link to that manuscript that talks about the triple therapy because here we're talking about one night's sleep deprivation, some time light exposure to the eyes, and then shifting in the circadian clock things central to the themes of this po the podcast that come up often. Yeah. I think for the typical person, can we say that trying to get a regular light dark cycle at sleep rhythm would be beneficial for overall mood regulation?

2 (2h 26m 36s):
Yeah. I think for, for the typical person, you know, really, really kind of reregulating your sleep and, and trying to get, you know, a good night's sleep in which you fall asleep, stay asleep, wake up in a set time every morning is gonna be pretty crucial, you know, in mild depression, I think that one has a lot of control over that. As we were talking about earlier. I think when you, you hit some threshold and depression where things become kind of semi volitional and it's harder to kind of will yourself into that. There are therapies like, you know, there, there's a C B T for insomnia, for instance, where you can do cognitive behavioral therapy to help with insomnia. Sometimes people, and I'm not, I'm no sleep expert that I kind of pass this to Greg to fully talk about this, but, but, but some of what goes on that people with kind of milder insomnia experiences like blue light out of their computer and things like that, that they, so you can use like blue light blockers to, to, it tricks your, your brain as you know better than me, it tricks your brain to think that it's still light outside.

2 (2h 27m 39s):
And so people will, they'll have insomnia because their brain still thinks that it's light outside. And then people will, you know, the kind of strict C B T for sleep. You know, therapists will say there are only two things that you should do in your bed and if you're under a certain age and and whatnot, it's really one thing that you should do in your bed, which is to sleep and, and, and be with your partner. Right? And so those are, those are kind of the two, the two things that you should do in a bedroom. And that's really the only things that you should do in a bedroom if you're having sleep problems, you shouldn't watch TV in a bedroom. You shouldn't eat in a bedroom, shouldn't, you know, hang out,

0 (2h 28m 18s):
Get the phone out of the bedroom. Keep

2 (2h 28m 20s):
The phone out of the bedroom. Yeah.

0 (2h 28m 22s):
Yeah. We should get Greg Salem on the podcast. We the, I'll just mention for people that wanna regulate their sleep, we have a, a sleep toolkit that's available as a downloadable pdf@hubermanlab.com. Just go to the menu and a lot of the things in that toolkit are based on work from Stanford's sleep laboratories, including Jamie Zeider and others lab not aimed at depression specifically. Listen, Nolan, Dr. Williams, this has been an amazing voyage through the circuitry of autonomic control. This landscape of the prefrontal cortex is, I find incredibly fascinating and I I just gonna start off by saying please do come back again Oh, and teach us more about that and your TMS work.

0 (2h 29m 7s):
I, before we wrap, however, I do wanna give you the opportunity to talk about the Saint study. Yeah, definitely. Is it saint or Saint's plural?

2 (2h 29m 15s):
Yeah, it's saint So, so saint or what we're, we're calling it s and t now Saint has, you know, the intent was not to, to have to kind of connect it to religion, but, but we may have accidentally done so. And so we, we abbreviated it to s and t for the, for the subsequent trials, which was initially Stanford accelerated intelligent neuromodulation therapy or now what we're calling Stanford neuromodulation therapy. But it's, the idea there, which is a cool idea, is that TMS is a device that delivers, delivers a treatment, and the treatment is the protocol.

2 (2h 29m 55s):
And the protocol is the stimulation parameter set in a specific brain region for a specific condition. And so what's cool about neuromodulation, whether it be transcranial magnetic stimulation or transcranial direct current stimulation or deep brain stimulation, like what Casey Halpern talked about, you know, on another podcast, is this idea that in all of those cases, the device itself is a physical layer conduit of a stimulation protocol that's therapeutic for a given condition in a given brain region. And so in the case of depression, which we know the most about for with tms, we've been doing TMS studies for depression for, you know, since 1995, right?

2 (2h 30m 39s):
In a clearance in 2000, 2008, 2009. And in that, in that timeframe, we were able to go from really knowing very little at all about how to do something like this to getting an FDA clearance. And, and the way that it went down was that there were two groups studying different components at nih. The first group was studying mood neuroanatomy on functional imaging. That was kind of the first generation of functional imaging back then. So PET scans, which are kind of metabolic scans and then SPECT scans. And the idea there was looking at activity and metabolism in prefrontal cortex.

2 (2h 31m 21s):
And what they found in these kinda more crude scans is that just general hypo activity, hypometabolism the other group right upstairs at the National Institute for Neurological Diseases and Stroke in I N D S, they were looking at using tms, which had been around for 10 years and rep repetitively stimulating in motor cortex. And what they found was, gosh, we can get a readout in thumb muscle movement amplitude that's really reproducible across people. It's like, you know, universally reproducible. And if we do certain stimulation approaches, they are biologically active to either increase excitability i e the thumb motion, and a set intensity goes up, the amount of amplitude goes up or inhibitory deep potentiating, it goes down with other biological stimulation approaches.

2 (2h 32m 13s):
Then a third outcome, which is important that it's inert, it doesn't do either. So you can have stimulation approaches that do one, you know, increase activity, decrease activity, or you know, or are inert. And so what they found was, oh, we can excite certain brain regions. Then my mentor, Mark George said, had this kind of aha moment where he said, Wow, there's underactivity in prefrontal cortex in depression, and we can increase activity using this thing that we know we can increase activity in motor cortex. We just need to put it in the left or so lateral prefrontal cortex. And then they combined the two and started stimulating once a day in this kind of very abbreviated fashion.

2 (2h 32m 54s):
And low and behold, some of those depression patients resolve their depression. And back then, and still today, you can go and as a psychiatric patient stay at the National Institute of Mental Health and go through clinical trials to try to get treated. And there were patient patients who had been there for months and they were able to be discharged. Their mood was better. Yeah. And so this very crude approach where they were using ruler measurements where D L P C was, and they were stimulating what devices that you needed to physically dunk the coil in an ice bath. And with that, they still were able to, the kind of genius of this mark and others still be able to, to create a, a, a purely engineered stimulation approach.

2 (2h 33m 35s):
What's, what's cool about that is that, that they, they kind of found two things, right? They found this one stimulation protocol that does have some antidepressant effect. It's, it's limited, it doesn't treat everybody, it does have some antidepressant effect. And this bigger concept that a neuromodulation device is kind of like a pharmaceutical company for you, right? That in a given individual, a TMS device or whatever neuromodulation device is able to generate to, to you can create a stimulation approach that is specific to a given condition and specific to an individual. And so the physical layer is just how you exert that similarly to how we make pharmaceutical drugs in a pharmaceutical company.

2 (2h 34m 21s):
But the actual therapy itself is what you do, where you do it. And so what we learned from, you know, another 20, 30 years of this is that you can modify the stimulation protocol in such a way where you can create a whole new treatment and put it through the same TMS device or thank god an evolved version of it where you don't have to dunk it in ice baths and, and it, and it can actually really handle much more aggressive stimulation approaches. And so in 2005, a group published a neuron, a paper demonstrating that if you, if you stimulate with the hippocampal rhythms through a TMS coil, you can excite the brain with memory rhythms and it'll last an hour.

2 (2h 35m 6s):
So you can change cortical excitability in this thumb twitch for an hour, sending three minutes of excitatory or 40 seconds in the case of inhibitory stimulation that mimics the hippocampal rhythms so much more efficient than the original TMS approaches. And so, you know, after that group tried to do it in this kind of six week schedule, and after that, you know, and while they were doing that, we decided, gosh, you know, this problem I talked about at the beginning of the show where you have these, you know, this problem that we, we don't have a treatment for people who are in these high acuity psychiatric emergency states, right? This idea that we're gonna engineer a treatment where we can reorganize the stimulation approach in time to be much more efficient by utilizing something called space learning theory.

2 (2h 35m 54s):
And so you, you probably know about the space learning theory is the idea for the, for the viewers is it's a simple psychological thing, but we've also seen it in hippocampal slice sort of physiology too, where if I'm cramming for a test, what I do is I write out 60 note cards and I read each one for a minute until I get to the first note card and again, and that's about an hour later, right? And we just, we just intuitively do this. We all, we all, you know, automatically do that. And we intuit that because we know that what doesn't work is writing out one note card and looking at it over and over again. Nobody ever does that, right? You know, we've all been in, in graduate school medical school, and we have these big stacks of note cards, that's space learning theory.

2 (2h 36m 37s):
It's this idea that you need to see it about every hour to an hour and a half. And that optimizes learning. If you take the same stimulation approach that I'm talking about this date of birth stimulation approach, and you take a hippocampal slice of a mouse and you stimulate, you, you enlarge some dendritic spines and you prime some, and then if you stimulate right after that, you don't get any change. It's called in mass stimulation. But if you wait about an hour to an hour and a half, you get more dendritic spines enlarged and more primed. Which by the way also is what ketamine does, it does, it causes this dendritic spine enlargement. And so, you know, know, what we found was is that the old way of doing tms, this idea of just doing it once a day, every day, five days a week for six weeks, didn't utilize the space learning theory.

2 (2h 37m 25s):
It's like studying for a month or two, just a little bit once a day. Like you remember some of that stuff, but it's like not as potent as that week where you're kind of cramming, right? And what we realized is that if we could reorganize the stimulation in times that we took the whole six week course, we actually figured out a way to do it in a day. And then what we also figured out is that people were underdosing tms because if you just keep going after six weeks out to month 3, 4, 5, more and more people got better. So we figured out it's not just one day we're gonna give five times the normal dose. We're gonna have seven and a half months worth and five days using space learning theory. So every hour, every hour for 10 hours, for five days, for five days.

2 (2h 38m 7s):
So it's a 50 hour block, it's 90 minutes of actual stimulation, but spread out through the day. And the same way of learning, which is perfect for an inpatient psychiatric unit, right? Five days is manageable. Yeah. You can get stimulation. Nobody's ever dropped out by the schedule. They, they, they're, you know, folks that wanna do this, want to do it. So they'll do their nine minutes, they'll go get breakfast, they'll do their nine minutes, they'll go see their therapist or whatever it is. And so what we found with this reorganization and, and time of the stimulation dose, and then the third component is we do resting state functional connectivity scans on everybody. And we have ways now in the last five to 10 years of picking out that specific subgenual D l PFC sub circuit that I was talking about earlier, that single d l pfc, we can pick that out in every single one.

2 (2h 38m 54s):
If you, if you wanna come to the lab, we can, we can find your D l PFC subgenual. It's even more robust than non they would s too, just while we're in there. Yeah. If you want to, we can, we can move around your hypnotizability and we can, we can find that spot in each person and instead of finding the same spot on the skull, we find the same spot on the brain and we can stimulate. And we do that every hour on the hour. And what we found, what we've found is that folks will, will within one to five days, you know, in, in more cases than not, and depending upon if you're looking at this open label or in trials somewhere between 60 and 90% of the time, they will go into full on remission in the sense they're totally normal from a mood standpoint at the end of this.

2 (2h 39m 39s):
And like I said, with variable dur durability. So that's the part we have to figure out now about dosing and how to keep people well. But for some people, you know, we've had four years of remission, you know, a year of remission. And it's, it's really that cramming of the test. It's really that idea that you're laying in that information in the exact right spot. And the, the signal is a simple signal, but it's a profound one, which is turn on, stay on, remember to stay on, you know, that idea that you're, you're sending this memory signal into the brain and you're doing it in such a way that you're telling the system, you're kind, kind of taking it outta the hippocampus hand, your own hippocampus hand is, and you're sending the same signal, the hippocampus normally signals out.

2 (2h 40m 21s):
Now you're sending that signal into the prefrontal cortex and kind of utilizing the brain's own communication style to get it to get out of the state. And what's very cool about this is that, is that people, when they, when they kind of exit out of that, they end up, they end up saying they don't have any, any side effects from it. And they feel back to normal. Like some people, you know, not everybody, but there's a subsection of people that with, with SSRIs where they'll say, I kind of feel numb or I have GI side effects, or I can't, I can't, you know, I don't have the sexual interest that I used to have and that sort of thing. You know, not anything at sesor arise, as I said earlier, life saving, you know, for a subsection of people.

2 (2h 41m 4s):
These things really work. But with this, what you see is that people don't talk about any of that stuff. And I think it's, it's likely because you're tapping into that core circuitry and you're reversing it and you're doing it with a, with a magnet that, because it's a very profound electromagnet, it's the same field strength as an MRI scanner, it's able to induce a current in the brain in this focal targeted way without getting into the rest of the brain, without getting into the rest of the body at all. And just really kind of acting only on that circuitry that's involved.

0 (2h 41m 39s):
Incredible. Is the Saint study still ongoing? And if people are interested in potentially being patients or subjects in the study, can we provide them a portal link?

2 (2h 41m 50s):
Absolutely. Yeah. So we have now the, the treatment, my, some of my students went over to a company called Magnus Medical, and they've been working on this, they've got an FDA clearance now and, and now folks can get it through trials over the next couple of years because it's gonna take some time for that company to, to kind of get up and running and, and get a, you know, get a, get a device and get the whole thing set up nationally. But while that's all going on, there's still about a thousand patients that need to be recruited across a bunch of different trials all over the country. We'll take people from anywhere in the country. We also have partners in New York and San Diego and other in, in soon to be South Carolina and other places where we can actually kind of, you know, my lab can help to kind of let people know where to go, where they, you know, based off of where they're at in the US and get them access to being able to be in a trial.

2 (2h 42m 43s):
And what we've tried to do is make it so that even if you get the, you know, 50 50 chance, you're gonna get the real deal or you're gonna get the, the, the non-real deal. But what we have figured out as a way to let everyone have access if they, if they got the not real deal version, the kind of sham version or the fake version for the first part of the trial, there are other trials where they can have access to the real version. So essentially everybody eventually gets access to having the real version. And so that's been a big thing for me is I, I want everybody that comes through one of our trials to be able to have access. I think it's important while, while, you know, the company's doing what they're doing and what the lab's doing, and kind of nationally what, you know, other partner labs are doing.

0 (2h 43m 28s):
Well, I can assure you, you're gonna get some interest.

2 (2h 43m 31s):
Happy to, happy to have it.

0 (2h 43m 32s):
Yeah. Thank you. And listen, thank you so much for taking us on this incredible voyage through the neuro circuitry underlying certain aspects of depression, the coverage of the different types of depression, the various therapeutic compounds, how they work. We've talked about a lot of things and you, you've shared so much knowledge and even as I say that I, I very much want to have you back to talk about Oh cool. Many other things as well that we didn't have time to cover, but also just really want to thank you for the work that you do. I know we are colleagues, but you run an enormous laboratory, enormous in my, but 40 people is a, is a big group, very big group.

0 (2h 44m 12s):
Plus you're, you're in the clinic, you also have a, a life of your own outside of work. And to take the time to sit down with us and share all this knowledge that really is in service to mental health and, and human feeling better and in fact a avoiding often suicidal depression. It's just incredible work and an incredible generosity. And just thank you so much.

2 (2h 44m 33s):
Oh, thank you, man. I mean, I, I, you know, similarly I want to thank you for, for what you're doing. I mean, I think, I think that what you, you know, I've got a lot of friends, folks that are not in the medical profession, friends of mine, you know, one of my buddies who's a real estate agent who works with us, who's a big, big fan of your show. And you know, I told a couple people like that I was coming on and, and they were like super stoked. They're like, we, you know, we watch, we watch every show and, you know, super excited to, to, to watch mine. And they, they said something very important to me that, you know, you make this, this complicated neuroscience and, and kind of bra, you know, brain body science accessible, you know, in, in a way that that few have a gift to do.

2 (2h 45m 18s):
And I think that that's so important. And, and this show is doing so much to, to help with science, literacy and yeah, appreciate you

0 (2h 45m 28s):
So well, thank you. I'm, I'm gratified and honored by your statement and I look forward to more. Thank

2 (2h 45m 34s):
You. Absolutely. Thank you.

0 (2h 45m 36s):
Thank you for joining me today for my discussion with Dr. Nolan Williams. I hope you found our discussion about psychedelics and other compounds, about transcranial magnetic stimulation and about the treatments for depression in general, to be as stimulating as I did. If you'd like to learn more about the work being done in Dr. Williams laboratory, you can go to the Brain Stimulation laboratory website, which is bsl.stanford.edu. And there you have the opportunity to apply to be in one of the clinical trials for depression or other studies as well, if you like to support the work being done in Dr. Williams laboratory for the treatment of depression and other psychiatric disorders. If you're learning from and are enjoying the Huberman Lab podcast, please subscribe to our YouTube channel.

0 (2h 46m 17s):
That's a terrific zero cost way to support us. In addition, please subscribe to the Huberman Lab podcast on Spotify and Apple and on both Spotify and Apple. You also have the opportunity to leave us up to a five star review. If you have questions for us or comments about the information we've covered or suggestions about future guests, please put those in the comment section on YouTube. We do read all the comments. Please also check out the sponsors mentioned at the beginning of today's episode. That's the best way to support the huberman Lab podcast.

Momentous (2h 46m 44s):
Not so much today, but in many previous episodes of the Huberman Lab podcast, we talk about supplements. While supplements aren't necessary for everybody, many people derive tremendous benefit from them for things like enhancing sleep and focus and hormone optimization. The Huberman Lab podcast is partnered with momentous supplements. If you'd like to see the supplements of the Huberman Lab podcast as partnered with Momentous on, you can go to live momentous spelled os, so live momentous.com/huberman. And there you'll see a number of the supplements that we talk about regularly on the podcast, I should just mention that that catalog of supplements is constantly being updated.

2 (2h 47m 16s):
As mentioned at the beginning of today's episode, the Huberman Lab podcast has now launched a premium channel. That premium channel will feature monthly AMAs or ask me anythings where I answer your questions in depth, as well as other premium resources. If you'd like to subscribe to the premium channel, you can simply go to huberman lab.com/premium. I should mention that the proceeds from the premium channel go to support the standard huberman Lab podcast, which will continue to be released every Monday per usual, as well as supporting various research projects done on humans to create the sorts of tools for mental health, physical health and performance that you hear about on the huberman Lab podcast.

0 (2h 47m 51s):
Again, it's huberman lab.com/premium. To subscribe, it's $10 a month or $100 per year. If you haven't already subscribed to our zero cost newsletter, we have what is called the Neural Network Newsletter. You can subscribe by going to huberman lab.com. Go to the menu and click on newsletter. Those newsletters include summaries of podcast episodes, lists of tools from the Hub Lab Podcast, and if you'd like to see previous newsletters we've released, you can also just go to huberman lab.com, click on newsletter in the menu, and you'll see various downloadable PDFs. If you wanna sign up for the newsletter, we just ask for your email. We do not share your email with anybody, and again, it's completely zero cost. If you're not already following me on social media, it's Huberman Lab, on Twitter, on Facebook, and on Instagram, and at all three of those places.

0 (2h 48m 34s):
I cover topics and subject matter that are sometimes overlapping with the information covered on the Huberman Lab podcast, but that's often distinct from information on the huberman Lab podcast. Again, it's Huberman Lab on all social media channels. And last but certainly not least, thank you for your interest in science.