1 (0s):
Welcome to the Huberman Lab Podcast where we discuss science and science-based tools for everyday life. I'm Andrew Huberman and I'm a professor of neurobiology and ophthalmology at Stanford School of Medicine. Today my guest is Dr. Susanna Solberg. Dr. Susanna Solberg completed her doctoral thesis work at the Center of Inflammation and Metabolism and the center of her Physical Activity research at the University of Copenhagen in Denmark. Her research has focused on how deliberate cold exposure and deliberate heat exposure can be used to enhance human metabolism. She is the first author of a seminal study, which discovered the minimum thresholds for deliberate heat and deliberate cold exposure for increasing brown fat thermogenesis, which is essentially a mode of increasing heat production and metabolism in the body, and for establishing actionable protocols that can be used outside of the laboratory to improve metabolism and human health.

1 (57s):
Dr. Sobers research was published in the Journal Cell Reports Metabolism in 2021, adding to a long and important history of research focusing on the role of cold and the role of heat in altering various aspects of the body's physiology, including hormone health, metabolism, and changes in neurotransmitters such as dopamine and epinephrine. In fact, today's discussion with Dr. Solberg focuses on the role of deliberate heat and deliberate cold exposure on metabolism, but it also includes discussion of the effects of cold and heat on things like neurotransmitter production, namely dopamine and epinephrine and norepinephrine, the so-called catecholamine, which strongly impact mood and metabolism.

1 (1m 38s):
In addition, Dr. Solberg answers many common questions about deliberate cold and deliberate heat exposure, including, for instance, the difference between cold showers versus cold immersion up to the neck versus total body cold immersion, including whether or not going back and forth between heat and cold changes fundamentally the way that heat and cold impact the metabolism, hormones and neurotransmitter production. And we talk about almost every single nuance and variation on deliberate cold and deliberate heat exposure protocols as it relates to the underlying science. In particular, how cold receptors at the level of the skin are impacted versus cold reception and perception at the level of the brain and how all of that impacts systems of the brain and body relating to mental health, physical health and performance.

1 (2m 24s):
Based on her scientific research and academic training, as well as her understanding and use of deliberate heat and deliberate cold exposure protocols, Dr. Solberg is considered one of the world's leading experts on these topics. In fact, she is the author of a recent book entitled Winter Swimming, which is, I have to say, a terrific book because it breaks down chapter by chapter the different aspects of deliberate heat and deliberate cold into its various constituent parts, including cold acclimation, the cold shock response, dangers and safeties of cold water, the impact of cold and the impact of heat on various aspects of human health, as well as specifics relating to sauna versus ice, versus cold swimming showers, et cetera.

1 (3m 7s):
It's a very thorough read and a very easy and accessible read that if you are interested in deliberate, colder, deliberate heat exposure or both will allow you to embrace those protocols with the greatest degree of confidence that you're going to obtain the specific endpoints that you're interested in and to do so safely. Before we begin, I'd like to emphasize that this podcast is separate from my teaching and research roles at Stanford. It is however, part of my desire and effort to bring zero cost to consumer information about science and science related tools to the general public. In keeping with that theme,

PLUNGE  (3m 37s):
I'd like to thank the sponsors of today's podcast. Our first sponsor is Plunge. Plunge makes what I believe is the most versatile at home self cooling cold plunge for deliberate cold exposure. I've talked numerous times on this podcast about the many benefits of deliberate cold exposure, and indeed today's episode is focused entirely on the benefits and the science of deliberate cold exposure. Plunge uses a powerful cooling filtration and sanitation unit to give you access to deliberate cold exposure in clean water whenever you want. As we'll discuss during today's episode with Dr. Susanna Solberg, deliberate cold exposure, especially deliberate cold exposure done up to the neck in water, can be used to achieve a number of important endpoints related to mental health, physical health and performance. I've been using a plunge for more than two years now. I can tell you that it makes it very easy to get your deliberate cold exposure at home. It doesn't require much cleaning. In fact, it's very easy to keep clean, which is essential. You don't want bacteria and other things growing in your cold plunge. Basically, everything about the plunge is made easy so that anyone, including myself, can get their deliberate cold exposure on a regular basis at home. If you're interested in getting a plunge, you can go to plunge spelled P L U N G e.com/huberman and get $150 off your cold plunge. Again, that's plunge.com/huberman for $150 off.

Maui Nui Venison (4m 54s):
Today's episode is also brought to us by Maui Newi Venison, which I can confidently say is the most nutrient dense and delicious red meat available. Maui Newi spent nearly a decade building a U S D A certified Wild harvesting system to help balance deer populations on the island of Maui. The solution they built turns the proliferation of an invasive species into a wide range of nutrient stents, products from butcher cuts and organ meats to bone broth and jerky. Their bone broth has an unmatched 25 grams of protein per a hundred calories. Several guests on this podcast who are experts in nutrition have pointed to the value of getting at least one gram of quality protein per pound of body weight each day with Maui Newi. That's very easy to do while eating delicious meals and getting it from a sustainable source. If you would like to try Maui newi venison, go to maui newi venison.com/huberman and get 20% off your first order. Again, that's maui newi venison.com/huberman to get 20% off.

Thesis (5m 48s):
Today's episode is also brought to us by thesis. Thesis makes custom neutropics and neutropics is not a word that I like because it means smart drugs and the brain doesn't have neural circuits for being smart. Rather, has neural circuits for focus, neural circuits for task switching, neural circuits for creativity, and on and on Thesis understands this and designs custom neutropics designed to get your brain and body into a specific state in order to do the mental and or physical work that's important to you, such as creativity or focus or clarity. If you'd like to try Thesis neutropics, you simply go to their website, you fill out a brief quiz, and they will design a custom starter pack so that you can assess which things work for you more or less well, and then they'll iterate with you over the course of the next few weeks or months to come up with the ideal Neutropic kit for your needs. To get your own personalized neutropic starter kit, go online to take thesis.com/huberman. You can take that three minute quiz and they'll send you four different formulas to try in your first month. Again, that's take thesis.com/huberman and use the code huberman at checkout to get 10% off your first box.

1 (6m 49s):
I'm pleased to announce that I will be hosting two live events in September of 2023. The first live event will take place in Toronto on September 12th. The second live event will take place in Chicago on September 28th. Both live events will include a lecture and a question and answer period and are entitled The Brain Body Contract during which I will discuss tools and science related to mental health, physical health and performance. And I should mention that a lot of that content will have absolutely no overlap with content covered previously on the Huberman Lab podcast or elsewhere. If you're interested in attending either or both of these events, please go to huberman lab.com/tour and enter the code huberman to get early access to tickets.

1 (7m 30s):
Once again, that's huberman lab.com/tour and use the code HUBERMAN to access tickets. I hope to see you there. And now for my discussion with Dr. Susanna Solberg. Dr. Susanna Solberg. Welcome. Thank you. So great to have you here. I feel like I should give a little bit of the backstory of how we got connected, which was that for many years I've been interested in cold thermogenesis. It was the topic of my senior thesis in college, and I've of course followed the popularity of Wim Hoff, and we've had Dr. Craig Heller, my colleague from biology department at Stanford who works on cold and its impact on physiology and sports performance.

1 (8m 11s):
So for a long time I've been interested in this area, but there's been a real lack of new, let's say, high profile quality scientific information in terms of how, for instance, cold plunges and sauna, how that impacts human physiology. I know there's been some information out there, but it's been sort of scattered. And then a little over a year ago, I see this paper in Cell Reports Medicine and was immediately struck the first of all, the fact that it was in Cell Reports Medicine. I've been on the cell press editorial board for a long time now, so press journals are of course phenomenal journals, and the title and the content of the paper was directly in line with the sorts of practices that people are very curious about and then are starting to emerge.

1 (8m 59s):
Things like Sauna Cold Plunges, and there was your name first on the author list, and I reached out to you through social media and we've done a little bit of live content there together, and I've been tracking what you've been doing in the world in terms of your book and talking about the results in your manuscript and talking about the science and impact of deliberate cold exposure and sauna. And I have to say that it's been a wonderful and remarkable thing to see, and you're bringing so much quality information about this area that for a long time I think was kind of niche and is now becoming more and more mainstream. So I'm gonna start off with a thank you for being here and a thank you for the work that you've done, and I'm looking forward to talking to you about it today.

1 (9m 42s):
So my first question to get things started is what is happening when we get into an uncomfortably cold environment? So for instance, if I'm really hot on a hot day, jumping into a cold pool feels really good, but if I'm already kind of at room temperature or I'm a little bit chilly, getting into that same temperature of water doesn't feel so good, right? There's a shock there. So if you could just walk us through what happens when we get into uncomfortably cold water, whether or not it's by way of shower or cold plunge at the level of our physiology. And if you'd like our psychology, I think that's a good place for us to start because I think it will orient people to their own experience if they do that.

1 (10m 24s):
Yeah, and for those that haven't done it might start to peel back some of the, the layers as to what the underlying mechanisms of cold are.

2 (10m 32s):
Yeah, thank you for that question. It's really good to just address what actually happens in our physiology when we get cold. And you can get cold in many ways. So you can just head out for the one that gives you the most potent stressor, which is submerging into cold water. And, but you could also go in outside, in the cold wind that's also gonna activate your, your sympathetic nervous system. So get all these neurotransmitter going in your body, and so your your cola mines, let's just address that. We are taking a cold plunge, for example. So if you are very hot, for example, before you go into the cold water, it's gonna feel less, it's gonna feel less stressful, but the, the temperature difference from your skin to the cold is definitely gonna give you a, a shock, but your cold temperature is warmer and that's gonna feel a little bit better.

2 (11m 24s):
So that's why when people go into a sauna, for example, and go out in, in into the cold water, they, they, they can do it easily easier than if they were cold beforehand. So

1 (11m 36s):
Could I just ask you a few questions? So you, you mentioned the sympathetic nervous system, which for people listening who aren't familiar with that is the, the branch of our nervous system that's responsible for creating accelerations and heart rate feelings of alertness. It's accompanied with stress and the stress response, but it's accompanied with waking up in the morning for that matter. So it's not always about stress. And then you mentioned the catacolmines, which are dopamine, epinephrine, and nor epinephrine. So maybe a little bit later we'll talk about those individual neurotransmitters, but you raise a really important point, which is something I get asked about a lot for people that are curious about using deliberate cold exposure, which is how cold should the water be?

1 (12m 16s):
And I know it's very hard to give a straight prescription for that because I think it boils down to what you just said, which is it's really the difference between your current temperature and really the temperature of the surface of your skin and the temperature of the water. So if you're very warm, getting into cold feels good. If you're already cold, getting into more cold feels stressful, is there any way that we can start to gauge what is the best way to approach a deliberate cold exposure protocol? I mean, should it feel uncomfortable? And that leads into the question of how do we balance the discomfort with the amount of time that we spend in? So for instance, if it's just a little bit uncomfortable, we'll spending more time in the cold get us the same benefit as getting into very uncomfortably cold water for a very short period of time.

2 (13m 2s):
Yeah, it is really good question. And I definitely think that this could be future studies on this as well, to really unravel what kind of protocols are the, are the best way, or also for which outcomes of course. So if the temperature is very cold and you feel that you also feel very cold, then you, you should stay in the water a little bit longer. So I think it's just you should get uncomfortable cold. So as long as you get uncomfortable cold, it's cold enough and you get this what we call the cold shock. So the cold shock is activation of your sympathetic nervous system and these activation of the, the CATA mines, which you just mentioned before,

1 (13m 42s):
Does the shock mean that I'm having trouble controlling my breathing? Is that a good gauge?

2 (13m 48s):
Yeah, you can say so because that's kind of like how we define it. So you hyperventilate so you have a faster breathing rate. So that increases also because you activate your gasping reflex if you are new to this. But if you are adapted it, it kind of subsides with time with adaptation. So what you can do is that you can train this cold exposure and you can kind of like get adapted to it so you don't have this hyperventilating response every time you go out in the cold water. So this is like building up your resilience building, building up your adaptation is gonna make this shock like subside a bit.

2 (14m 28s):
So it's, it's always harder in the beginning, but you should do hard things, right? It's not something that we, you shouldn't think about cold water and cold water immersion as something that is comfortable. It should be hard because that's the point of it, right? If you enjoy it, then yeah, then I'm, I'm thinking something is wrong. It's not right, you should not enjoy it. Well,

1 (14m 47s):
This is an important point that you're making because I think that many people shy away from deliberate cold exposure because it's uncomfortable in a way that at least from my experience, is very different than the discomfort of exercise. Because with exercise, for instance, if running hard, you know, running fast and breathing hard is uncomfortable, you can slow down or walk if, you know, lifting weights is uncomfortable, you can remove some weight or reduce the number of repetitions or stop with deliberate cold exposure, I suppose you can be sort of halfway in, halfway out of the water or partially underneath the cold shower, but it's very hard to titrate and adjust the level to it's kind of all or none.

1 (15m 31s):
And I've seen, I should just, I can tell this by anecdote, I, I've done some work with military special operations. I won't say which country this was outside the US and these are very tough individuals. They're used to going without sleep and doing hard, high consequence, high risk kind of work. And they were asked to do some cold water exposure training, and I was there that day and it was remarkable. About a third of them just went straight in and just kind of grinded through it, you know, like they looked stoic. Anyway, to me, there were a few whims, no cries, about a third, talked a lot and got really, you could tell that they were agitated and anxious, but they made it through.

1 (16m 12s):
And then about a third of them just simply would not get in past their knees or thighs. Were just, it seemed like they were just dreading the whole experience. Some actually didn't actually go in completely, which was really surprising to me in that you couldn't tell based on their physical appearance or anything else about them. They're all high performers as to who would have this response. So it seems like people vary tremendously in terms of their ability to embrace the discomfort of the cold. Is that from your studies, is that your experience as well, or, or are there these weird mutants who seem to just love going into the cold for the first time?

2 (16m 47s):
So some people just feel better in the cold and some people dread the cold even more. And you can say the more people are pushing the cold away, they might feel the cold pain even more. So they, they, they would definitely, people who are maybe the soldiers you just talked about, they, some of them might be already adapted to the cold, cold. So if they are not scared of the cold, they go out and they embrace the cold in a better way. It could also be that some people have a more sensitive nervous system, and when you are a bit sensitive to the cold, you'll of course try to get away from it, right? And you will also have the cold pain more feel the cold more if they, if, if you avoid it.

2 (17m 31s):
So the more you avoid the cold, the the more pain painful it will feel when you go into it. So yeah,

1 (17m 38s):
You mentioned being outside in a t-shirt versus cold immersion up to the neck versus shower. I think this is something a lot of people wonder about. What are the differences in terms of impact short term and perhaps even long term between cold showers, cold plunge to the neck. So that could be in ice water or just very cold water immersion with dunking one's head and then coming up, because obviously people have to come up for air at some point and then simply being outside on a cold day in shorts and a t-shirt or something of that sort.

2 (18m 12s):
So there are different outcomes because they're, they are very different exposures of the cold to your cold receptors in your skin. So the more you can say you cover your body in the cold, which you would do in cold water because they're of course covered totally, and, and, and the molecules are closer to your skin, you will have a more potent activation of all your coat receptors in the skin. So that one will definitely activate your auto enormous nervous system more and rapid compared to going out in a t-shirt in the cold wind, just go for a walk. But that is also something that's gonna activate your sympathetic nervous system, meaning then that you will have an increase in norepinephrine and you will activate something called the the brown fat.

2 (19m 3s):
So this is a healthy kind of fat tissue that we have in our body, and when you activate that, that's gonna increase your metabolism.

1 (19m 11s):
Before we talk about brown fat, and I'm so glad you brought it up because it's so much to talk about there. What about cold shower? I mean, obviously cold shower is somewhere in between. Yeah. Being out outside in the air, cold air versus being immersed up to the neck.

2 (19m 28s):
If we had more studies on, on cold showers, we would learn more about how does that activate our metabolism? How does that increase our neurotransmitters in the brain, which could also have an impact our on our mental balance. So I think that will be interesting for the future, but what we do know is from, from, from activating brown fat and both from rodent studies, but also in in humans, is that as soon as we get cold on our skin, we will activate our brown fat. So it is kind of like our first responder in, in the body to keep our temperature up. So our muscles is like the second tissue in our body.

2 (20m 8s):
We have two tissues which can increase our thermogenesis. So the brown fat, which is like always like temperature regulating our body. And then we have the, the muscles which will secondarily start to shiver, and that's gonna increase our temperature in the body. But as soon as you go into a cold shower, you will activate your brown fat also immediately. So it could be good also for increasing metabolism in theory, because we haven't really any studies showing how much does actually activate the brown fat. So if someone out there wants to do a study,

1 (20m 43s):
That'd be great. I think I've thought about why there are fewer studies of cold showers than cold immersion, and I think the answer to my mind is that from a methodological standpoint, it's just harder to do because if people are getting into cold water up to the neck, they're getting into cold water up to the neck. Whereas if people are getting into a cold shower, some people are larger or smaller, some people are gonna stand under the shower with hitting their head. Some people the back of the neck, you could direct people to do it. Yeah. But it's a little bit more difficult. Also, I think for you and I are both research scientists, there's a little bit of a methodological challenge that might seem silly to people, but it's a real one, which is if people are in a cold shower, also the water is going to be, I'm kind of pushing their clothing against their skin.

1 (21m 25s):
There's a certain vulnerability in for most people coming to a laboratory in the first place, let alone being observed while they shower. Yeah. Whereas when you get into cold emer, cold immersion, you know, you're getting under the water and you know, p some people might roll their eyes and say, okay, really is that the barrier? But you know, science exists in these real world contexts, and this will vary by culture and things of that sort. But we run human subjects in my lab, and I'll tell you just the process of getting people to the laboratory and having them park and find the lab and you know, it's a whole new environment with people in lab coats and people moving around and where's the restroom? I mean, it's a, there's a, there's a certain amount of stress just associated with taking part in a study for most human subjects. So I totally agree.

1 (22m 5s):
However, we need more studies of, of cold showers, it's just a harder environment to control. Yeah. In in my, in my mind. So it sounds like any form of cold to the skin that people register as what you called a cold shock or uncomfortable like, oh, like this is kind of jarring, activates the brown fat. Do we know what the pathway is from cold receptors on the skin to the brown fat? I mean, how does the brown fat know that we're cold?

2 (22m 33s):
Yeah, really good question. And it seems that I, I think that of course in the future we will know much more about these pathways, but what we do know is that the co-receptors will send a signal to our temperature regulating center in, in the brain, so hypothalamus, and that's gonna be taking in this message. And we have so many co-receptors in the skin, so it's going to be very fast, as you can say, if you immerse the body into cold water, this is gonna be so rapid. So it will have a rapid increase in neurotransmitters in the brain. So no adrenaline, adrenaline, cortisol, and which is not that much, but it's, but it's still there. So you have this increase in no adrenaline, which will then immediately activate the brown fat because the, you can say the activator is the most potent one cold and no adrenaline that's gonna activate the brown fat.

2 (23m 25s):
But there's also a direct pathway from the co-receptors in the skin to the, to the brown fat, which really shows that if, because of these different pathways, it shows that, that it could be that this tissue to keep us warm was, was developed in, in our evolvement as humans to keep us warm and to save us whenever the temperature on our skin varies just a little bit to keep us in that right homeostatic balance so we don't get hypothermic, but also so we don't get hyperthermic. But because it seems that the brown fat is also activated when we get warmer in our skin.

2 (24m 5s):
So it's also maybe a temperature regulator in our, in our body, but the pathways is different. I think it's also a third pathway from directly from the muscles. So the brown fat is also activated even though the, the muscles are starting to shiver. So there's a, an extra pathway that way to keep our, our temperature up. So muscles and brown fat are working together to, to keep us warm so we don't suffer too much in the, in the cold water.

1 (24m 34s):
That's super interesting. And what I here are you pointing to is the existence of three parallel pathways, and this notion of parallel pathways comes up over and over again in biology, as you and I know, and I mean, I think it's important for people to know about because as you said so, so eloquently, the when something is very important to our survival or, and or evolution, the brain embody install multiple mechanisms for it, not just one. And, and so it sounds like it's cold skin, cold on the skin triggers a response in the hypothalamus, which then activates brown fat cold receptors in the skin directly to the brown fat and then shivering in the muscle to the brown fat.

1 (25m 17s):
I want to talk about brown fat in depth and learn from you more about brown fat before that. However, I want to ask about shiver. I've heard that shiver causes the release of suc eight, which then activates the brown fat. Is it known whether or not inducing shiver is important and when should pe people shiver? I mean, I've gotten into cold plunges and shivered while I was in there, and then I've also had the experience of getting into a cold plunger, a cold shower, then getting out when even standing outside on a warm day after swimming in a pool and then starting to shiver. So the shiver comes later.

1 (25m 57s):
So how important is shiver and does it matter when shiver happens?

2 (26m 2s):
Yeah, well, shivering is, is good because that increases your metabolism and that's gonna burn some calories in your body. You shouldn't be so afraid of shivering, I think because the shivering, as long as you don't get too hypothermic. So if you don't, if you don't sit in the cold water for too long. Sure. And what you just said by shivering after you get up that is because of the after drop. Something called the after drop is when your core temperature decreases even after you get out of the cold water. And it always does that your body, because it, as soon as you get into the cold water, all the, your blood vessels is gonna constrict because you need to keep your blood in your core and, and keep your organ and swarm.

2 (26m 45s):
So as soon as you get up that those blood vessels will open again and the warm blob will flow out and get colder and then flow back again into the core. And that's gonna decrease the temperature in your core. Of

1 (26m 56s):
Course. So that's the drop.

2 (26m 58s):
So that's the drop. Got it.

1 (26m 59s):
Oh, I'm so glad you explained that. I've heard years ago, Wim h I heard him talk about the drop, and I've heard colleagues of mine talk about the drop, but that's the first time I've ever heard it explained clearly. They made me, let me make sure I understand this. So I get into cold water, obviously I'm cold vessels constrict to keep blood near the center of my body, keep me alive. I get out, the warming up of my body, allows those vessels and capillaries to dilate again, the blood goes out to the surface, but the surface is still cold. And so that blood is cooled and then my core body temperature drops. And that's what you're referring to as the drop, and that's what induces shiver. Exactly. Great.

1 (27m 39s):
And then am I right in thinking that then the shiver activates brown fat, which then warms me up again? Yes. Got it.

2 (27m 45s):
That's why you should end on the cold. We can get back to that. Yeah.

1 (27m 48s):
Let's talk about, yes, ending on cold is, you know, it's what I refer to as and what has now become known as the sober principle, which is a really important principle about the importance of ending on cold and not doing what I do, which is to get into a hot shower or, or back in the sauna. But we'll, we'll get back to that in a, in a few minutes. So that's wonderful that you can explain that so clearly because I think that shiver is something that a lot of people do avoid. People think, oh, I don't want the, you know, the chattering in the teeth and, and it feels like a loss of bodily control, which really it is. It's it's an autonomic response.

2 (28m 24s):
Yeah. But I don't think that people should, should avoid it that much. It's just like seeing shivering as a way of your body in a, in a, like it's training, it's training for your, for all your cells, it's training for your muscles, it's training of your metabolism, and that's gonna increase your, what's called the insulin sensitivity. So if you can, like in your mind, get used to the thought of shivering is just like when you go exercising in the training center and get that feeling of like, oh, this is tough now it hurts a little bit. Yeah, it's gonna hurt because that's what shivering also does, but it's just a different way of training your cells in your body. It's gonna create what is healthy stress, it's called home mesis in the cells.

2 (29m 5s):
And the more you expose your, your muscle cells or your brown fat cells to these kind of like healthy stresses, exercise, cold heat exposure, it's gonna make them better at like activating and also at keeping you healthy. So as long as the the cells get exposed to this, it, it's gonna keep them on its toes, you can say, because it becomes more robust increasing ye heat shock proteins and kosher proteins in the cells to make you more robust for the next time. And that is also what happens when you go to the training center. And I keep like drawing that parallel because p people today know more about windmill, more about exercise and what that's is is gonna do to your muscle cells.

2 (29m 51s):
And, but the same kind of like training is also what you do when you go out and, and into the coldwater and submerge into coldwater because that is just your cold training center, you can say that and, and also your heat training center going into the sauna because the cells are getting stronger with hermetic stress. So it's the same process, just different praxis.

1 (30m 13s):
I'm so glad that you brought up the fact that the discomfort or the embarrassment or both of shiver is still crucial to actually to reach for and try and experience. The same way that with exercise, I think a lot of people don't realize this, but when we did our series with Dr. Andy Galpin, it became clear to me what should have already been clear to me. And I think that most people don't realize, which is that if we were to measure heart rate, blood pressure, stress hormones and inflammation in a human being during exercise, it would look as if they were ready to die. Blood pressure would be high, inflammation is through the roof, but all of that is setting in motion and adaptation or set of adaptations that allow blood pressure to be lower at rest that allow inflammation markers to be lower at rest.

1 (30m 60s):
All the things that everybody is seeking with exercise. And in addition to, of course, the aesthetic changes that people are seeking with exercise sounds like the exact same things are happening with the cold. So the redundant message here seems to be that the more discomfort provided it's done safely. Just like with exercise, the more shivering the, the more cold shock provided, it's not to the extreme and stop somebody's heart. Right. We can talk about thresholds for that a little bit later. It sounds like all of that is going to set in motion some long-term changes that will make people feel better and will improve health. Could you just touch on a few of the longer term changes that are known to occur?

1 (31m 40s):
I mean, I'm well aware of the study showing that I think it was European journal physiology, it was the European Journal physiology showing long-lasting increases in catecholamine dopamine nor epinephrine and epinephrine for many hours after deliberate cold exposure. What are some of the other things that happen at the level of metabolism and brown fat in let's say the hours and day after deliberate cold exposure

2 (32m 5s):
As soon as you go in, of course there's an activation, but it seems like no, you're asking for the, the later outcomes like blood pressure and stuff like that. Is that what you mean? Yeah,

1 (32m 14s):
Blood pressure, but also in terms of metabolism. I know that, you know, in your study you show, and we'll talk about brown fat in depth here in a moment, but yeah, that there were changes to the brown fat that equate to changes in, for instance, people's ability to be comfortable in colder environments when they're not doing deliberate cold exposure. Yeah. Or in the same way that I can exercise on an exercise bike or go out for a hard run. But then if I go hiking with the family on Sunday and where it's a steep climb, I can do that steep climb more easily because I'm fit as a consequence of the, of the exercise. What are some, what are some of the fitness adaptations of deliberate cold exposure?

2 (32m 52s):
Yeah, so what happens is that you, you get adapted a little bit every time you go. So you will like exercise, get a little bit stronger. So every time you go into the cold water for every time you will be more exposed to it. You will, you'll feel more comfortable in the cold. So you are gonna, you are gonna build your adaptation, which happens on a metabolic level, which is gonna be the brown fat. So you'll have more activation of your brown fat. The mitochondria in the, the brown fat cells are gonna be, you have more of those and they will be more efficient at heating you up because it expects, the body expects you to, to do this again. So you are prepared in a way, the caps in your skin is also, will also become better at like constricting.

2 (33m 34s):
So you will have a better shield of your body to prepare you for the next time. So you'll be, become better at going into the cold water in that way. So the, the body makes these mechanism changes your body in a way so you can expose yourself to the next time. Right. And, and also you will have also your stress response will also be subside a bit. So you will have a less increase of your ketamine with time, with time also you have, because of this activation of your brown fat or your muscles, you will have an increase in, in, in your metabolism, which will then make your insulin sensitivity better.

2 (34m 19s):
And this is shown in, in studies. For example, there was this interesting study I found just before I, I started my PhD, which was from Gier at al from 2016, where they measured metabolism, not in, not on brown fat, but they measured insulin sensitivity in middle-aged men and women during one winter swimming season. So they were not very young like they were in my study, but they were, they were middle-aged and I think this is very interesting. So they, during these four or five months, they were winter swimming, they saw that they had a lower block pressure after the season and they had a lower heart rate and they also saw that they have a better insulin sensitivity.

2 (35m 3s):
And I think that is very interesting because if you can have a better insulin sensitivity, you can prevent lifestyle diseases. So, and with lower blood pressure, which is a very strong outcome also for telling how much inflammation you have in the body. And because it didn't measure brown fat, I figured that it could be, that was the missing link. That was the one of the explanations to why we see this less inflammation in the body. So the longer outcomes, the long term outcomes could be that you lower your blood pressure and you have a lower heart rate. You also have a better insulin sensitivity and better glucose balance.

2 (35m 46s):
But that was shown, that is shown in my study.

AG1 (35m 49s):
I'd like to take a quick break and acknowledge one of our sponsors, athletic Greens, athletic Greens now called Ag One is a vitamin mineral probiotic drink that covers all of your foundational nutritional needs. I've been taking Athletic Greens since 2012, so I'm delighted that they're sponsoring the podcast. The reason I started taking Athletic Greens, and the reason I still take Athletic Greens once or usually twice a day, is that it gets to me the probiotics that I need for gut health. Our gut is very important. It's populated by gut microbiota that communicate with the brain, the immune system, and basically all the biological systems of our body to strongly impact our immediate and long term health. And those probiotics and athletic greens are optimal and vital for microbiotic health. In addition, athletic Greens contains a number of adaptogens, vitamins and minerals that make sure that all of my foundational nutritional needs are met and it tastes great. If you'd like to try Athletic Greens, you can go to athletic greens.com/huberman and they'll give you five free travel packs that make it really easy to mix up athletic greens while you're on the road, in the car, on the plane, et cetera. And they'll give you a year supply of vitamin D three K two, again, that's athletic greens.com/huberman to get the five free travel packs and the year supply of vitamin D three K two.

2 (37m 3s):
And we'll get back to the insulin sensitivity and glucose balance. That's a, an an impressive list of benefits. You know, blood pressure, of course most people are aware of blood pressure and what it is, it's what they measure when we go to the doctor.

1 (37m 17s):
And it's not very sexy nowadays, you know, blood pressure, people go, oh, you know, blood pressure. It's not, you know, people want to hear about the inflammatone and the microbiome and all of that stuff is really interesting. But I think that blood pressure doesn't get enough attention. And we have spoken to on this podcast to Dr. Peter Atia, who is an expert in longevity and health span and things of that sort. And, and I was surprised to learn, again, I shouldn't have been surprised that the number one reason people die worldwide is cerebral vascular disease and cardiovascular disease. Yeah. And there're basically three things on the list of things to address. One is not smoking or vaping, by the way, not, so there are a few other things related to blood markers, apo B and things of that sort.

1 (38m 3s):
But then the big one is blood pressure. And so it's, it's interesting because we don't think about blood pressure that much anymore as a, as the kind of people interested in health optimization and health, but blood pressure is so vital to control. So it's wonderful to hear that deliberate cold exposure is one way to control blood pressure. I, I'm guessing in concert with other forms of exercise. Yeah. Let's talk about brown fat and if you'd, if you're willing, I'd love to drill into brown fat at a, at a deep level. Again, my understanding of this is, is far more elementary than yours. Obviously you're the expert. My understanding about brown fat is that it's located in specific areas of our body, maybe more widespread than when I learned in school.

1 (38m 51s):
I thought it was, I was taught it was just at the clavicles in the back of the neck and upper back. But who knows? I learned that there's more of it when we're children, maybe more distributed throughout our body and that it's rich in mitochondria. But what is so special about the brown fat? Like what if we could just go into the biology of brown fat a little bit, what does it look like? You've measured it in human subjects. Where is it distributed really? Can it expand its distribution? Can we activate and expand the amount of brown fat as adults? And for those of you that are cringing already thinking we're talking about getting fatter, it's quite the opposite. We're talking about not subcutaneous fat, but fat located around the, the organs.

1 (39m 33s):
But please educate me, tell me where I'm wrong and expand my knowledge on brown fat.

2 (39m 39s):
Okay, yeah, you are not wrong, but it's definitely, it's true that there are more locations of the brown fat than we previously thought. There's this very nice study from 2017 by LE at l where they had made these pe overlays of their subjects where they can see where in the body do we have brown fat and where can we grow more brown fat, so to say. So the brown fat is can, is very plastic. So it means that it can, it can grow and it can decrease. And this is proven in, in studies where we have seen people with a fail cryo cytoma.

2 (40m 20s):
It's like a very specific cancer type where people where from the seventies where we can see that if they have this specific kind of cancer type, they have a, they have this tumor on the adrenal gland, so they have like a huge increase in NOA adrenaline. And because of that they have this continuous activation of the brown fat and they have grown a lot of brown fat in whole body abdominal where it's located in these six different places. But it is like very much compared to like normal people. And what they then see, what we learned from this study is that brown fat can apparently grow if you have an increase in no adrenaline in the body.

2 (41m 5s):
It's not like you want that because when that happens you have a high blood pressure, you don't want it chronically, right? You, you just want it on like a short amount of time and then it can grow for a bit, but you don't want it chronically, of course not. But because it, it activates also your sympathetic nervous system. So they have also showed they have high blood pressure. They had, they lost a lot of weight of course because this is activating your metabolism. So they, they found luckily that when they removed this benign tumor that the brown fat decreases again to normal size and they gain weight again and they had normal blood pressure. So the story ends well, but it is kind of like proof of concept of the brown fat can actually grow.

2 (41m 48s):
So it's plastic in, its in its way of like, it can, it can grow and it can decrease again. So that's very good, good studies to, to see what it, what the body's capable of. But we don't of course want all that brown fat. We just want it to be, we just want to keep it actually and, and keep it activated because what we see in studies is also that after the age of 40 people, studies have shown that there is an association with having less brown fat but increase obesity. So of course we, we don't know yet whether brown fat decreases with as and therefore we get obese or we get obese and therefore we have less brown fat.

2 (42m 28s):
But as brown fat is an insulin sensitive organ in our body and we get obese just like the muscles get less sensitive, insulin sensitive, the brown fat does as well. And therefore it maybe decreases, it could be a theory that I think could be one of the reasons why we, we don't see that much brown fed in in elderly people. Some have a lot, especially people working outside that there are studies showing this

1 (42m 58s):
Who people who

2 (42m 59s):
Work outside

1 (42m 60s):
Do physical work outside, outside farmers and Interesting. Yeah, yeah,

2 (43m 4s):
They expose themselves to it. So don't, they'll just keep it in that way.

1 (43m 9s):
It's, and I suppose we should clarify for people in case they don't know that insulin sensitivity is a very good thing. Yes. You want that, you want yourselves to be sensitive to insulin. Insulin insensitivity is type two diabetes and is associated with obesity. So just a point of clarification there. Yeah, it's interesting to me. I I, I usually work out at home, but I, I go to a gym once or twice a week if I can because it's good if I see the outside world, and there are a few individuals at the, the gym who are, they're not particularly large or muscular, but they are incredibly lean and their posture is great, presumably from the musculoskeletal work and they, they're in their seventies and eighties.

1 (43m 60s):
I mean, it's remarkable, right? Yeah. And, and, and I know all the telltale signs of hormone augmentation. I'm very good at spotting that. There are a few telltale signs. I've talked about this on other podcasts and they're not, that's not why they're, they're they're, they're fit. They're, they're, they're clearly of that look, and you see this outside the gym too, of course for people that look like they've done a lot of physical labor whole life. Yeah. They're just moving a lot. They, they have strong hands and features and they, they're, and they're not necessarily excessively lean, but you can tell that they've been using their musculoskeletal system. Yeah. And I like to talk to these people and ask them like, not what are you doing now for your workout, but what, what did you grow up doing?

1 (44m 40s):
You know, and I would say, and obviously I haven't run statistics on this, but more than 75% of them respond that they grew up on a farm or that they did some sort of manual labor or were a postman or a post woman or doing something where they moved a lot for their early years and throughout middle age. And most of them are now in retirement, but some of them are still working and they all still moving a lot. So the relationship between shiver and brown fat makes sense to me. But is it the case that as we're just moving around, I've heard of neat non exercise-induced thermogenesis. So if we're just moving around that we are activating brown fat or d does there need to be this stressor?

1 (45m 24s):
Does there need to be shiver and a cold stimulus or a heat stimulus to activate the brown fat? In other words, is just staying active enough or do we need to do some sort of temperature shock type thing, like deliberate cold ex exposure?

2 (45m 39s):
Yeah, I think that is really good question because how, how also, why do we have this tissue then if it's, if it has to be extreme, then you can question what, what do we need this tissue for? But it seems that you can activate the brown fat with just a little bit of exposure to, to cold. So cold is the, the most potent stressor activator of our brown fat because it's our temperature regulating organ in our body. So first responder to that, so the muscles will be a little bit too late and therefore we have maybe these two kind of tissues. So actually just exposing yourself or a hand actually just to cold water. So studies have shown that if you just put your hand in cold water, not that you're going to gonna do that all day or or every day or anything.

2 (46m 23s):
It's not, it's, it's not something you have to do, but it just shows that you can activate your brown foot just by getting a temperature change on your skin. So you can go outside and t-shirt. That's why also we were just talking about, well, people who works outside or move a lot or get out in and out of it, like changing the temperature of their body all the time, they will have more brown fat and activating that is gonna keep your metabolism higher. And your insulin sensitivity study have also shown this. So the brown fat can be activated as soon as you just change your temperature in the skin. So going outside in a t-shirt, wearing cooling vests. Also, studies have shown this for 10 days. It's gonna also grow your, your brown fat so you can get more brown fat if you expose yourself to the cold.

2 (47m 11s):
You don't have to start in a cold shower, you don't have to start in a cold plunge if you are not really ready for that yet. But just exposing yourself to the wind has also shown to activate your brown fat. Or if you don't wanna be like in this awake state, then you can also just sleep in the code and you won't notice it that much maybe. But studies have shown that if you sleep in 19 degrees Celsius, then you'll activate your brown fat and you will grow your ground fat so you have more of it. So this very nice studies from Hansen, it ital from 2017 showed that a group of subjects who slept in a room at 24 degrees and then they made this pet CT scannings to see how much brown fat do they have from the beginning.

2 (47m 60s):
So what we call baseline. Then they measured again after a month of sleeping in 19 degrees. And they saw, I think it's remarkable, just one month at 19 degrees sleeping there, they had a duet on and they were still had close on when we were sleeping.

1 (48m 16s):
So they're under a cover under a duvet? Yeah,

2 (48m 18s):
Under under a duet. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. The subjects were sleeping at 19 degrees from one month had increased, is insulin sensitivity. The next month they stepped at 24 degrees, they measured this again, and then they had decreased actually a little bit, and then they stepped at the 27 degrees, so quite warm room actually for, for the fourth month. And they saw even less activation of the brown fat and also insulin sensitivity. So it seems that you can expose yourself and pretty rapidly the brown fat will respond to this because it's so sensitive to no adrenaline, right? So if you keep exposing yourself to a little bit of cold, you also get a little bit adapted to it.

2 (48m 58s):
But that's because the brown fat has grown these more mitochondria in the cells. So these small energy fabrics that's gonna activate the cells and that's gonna take up glucose and fat from the fatty acids from the bloodstream to keep the thermogenesis up. And that's gonna clear up some sugar and it's gonna click so in the, in the bloodstream and some, some fat as well. So the brown fat can in that way decrease our unhealthy fat, which is the white fat. And the white fat is what we don't want too much of, but we still need some of course. And it's our energy storage. So it's very important that it's there. We just don't need a lot of it.

2 (49m 38s):
So on our thighs and also around our inner organs, that's where it's, it's located. So if we can have activation of the brown fat just by going out in the cold and just by sleeping in a cold room, or if you are have courage for it, you can go out and expose yourself in a cold plunge. Cold showers is also gonna do the trick. So you can do different variations of this. Just exposing yourself to various temperatures is gonna activate the brown fat because it was involved to keep us in a perfect homeostatic balance regarding temperature. So to keep us alive.

1 (50m 12s):
Incredible. I wanna just get a clarification around this 19 degree Celsius room that they're sleeping in. So they're under a comforter duvet and and you mentioned they had clothes on the room is 19 degrees Celsius, but the temperature underneath their blanket might not be 19 degrees Celsius. So presumably it's the cold on their face that's activating the, the increase in brown fat that was observed. Is that, is that a reasonable expectation?

2 (50m 41s):
I, I think so, yeah, because it's, you have so many co-receptors in your face as so is actually, it's enough. And it, I think it corresponds very well with the studies showing that you can activate the brown fat just by putting a hand into a, a bucket of cold water. And I did this experiment myself in, in my studies just to see how well did they respond to cold water. So it was four degrees Celsius, cold water for four minutes, and then I just measured blood pressure and heart rate to see do they have like an activation of this? I actually also measured the brown fat during this cold exposure for four minutes with an infrared thermography camera to see can I see that the brown fat is activated.

2 (51m 23s):
And just to, just to, to go back to the location of the brown fat. So usually you cannot really see activation of your brown fat because it's located centrally in your, around your central nervous system. And, and the biggest depo, as you mentioned before, is up here under the, the clavicular bones. So, and very close to the skin surface. And because it's so close to the skin surface, I could measure it with this very expensive camera, you, and it's not very feasible for people to go home and do this, don't, because it takes a lot of practice, I can tell. But we measured the brown fat with this. And, and I could see that after a few minutes that the activation was there, an increase in temperature arose from that activation just four minutes.

2 (52m 11s):
So it's very rapid. And I'm also measured in my study how deep was the brown fat under your skin? So it's very close to the surface, which also shows that it, it needs to be there to, to heat you up and heat, heat your inner organs.

1 (52m 26s):
Well, I'm delighted to hear all of this and I'll, I'll tell you why. One is by way of anecdote, I mentioned a little bit earlier that as an undergraduate I worked in a lab that studied thermogenesis and we were doing that in animals, but we had this room that was very cold. The whole room was cold. The guy who I worked for at the time had him, Harry Carlisle was a very accomplished physiologist. He came from this lineage. I don't know if this literature is still discussed much, but it's a beautiful literature from Rothwell and stock. They were the ones who discovered non-exercise induced thermogenesis. The fact that people bounce, who bounce their legs a lot and move around a lot and have a lot of kind of sarcastic movement burn up to 18, 1000, 800 calories more per day than people who sit more still.

2 (53m 9s):
Fascinating.

1 (53m 10s):
Incredible. Yeah, it just incredible. I don't think that worked. Dessert gets as much attention as, as it deserves publishing journals like nature. So very fine journals. But in any event, one of the things that I noticed when I started working in that, that laboratory was that I was cold because the room was cold and Dr. Carlisle Harry said, well, the key is to wear a t-shirt in here for about two, three days. Yeah. And then you will cold adapt I thought, well, wouldn't I wanna put on a hoodie and get warm in there? So I was comfortable and he said, no, actually what you want to do is get yourself uncomfortably cold, activate your brown fat. And indeed, when I did that, I think it was just two days of being in that cold environment, then I could come back on the third day and be perfectly comfortable.

1 (53m 53s):
Yeah. Because the brown fat had expanded or, or added mitochondria or both. And I was perfectly comfortable in that environment. I also got very, very lean in those in those days and weeks. Now I've, I've never been somebody who's very lean, nor am I somebody who carries a lot of excess adipose tissue. I'm kinda somewhere in the middle. I'm sure I could adjust that with feeding if I want to. But it was, it was striking what a powerful effect it had on my entire system of thermal regulation. And one of the things that I also delighted in when Cell Reports Medicine published your study, is they had an accompanying press release that went out to, to those of us that received press releases.

1 (54m 33s):
And it described a, a saying in Scandinavia, which is essentially tr I'm not gonna attempt to speak Danish, even though I have much of my family is in Denmark, believe it or not, from Denmark. We have a lot of Danes in my family. I won't embarrass myself by trying to speak Danish as I did before the, the microphones were rolling. But that, there's a saying that I, I think essentially it translates to, in the fall when when you're approaching winter, you want to actually wear fewer layers, not bundle up when you go outside, so that you can prepare yourself for the cold of winter and be able to heat yourself up using your brown fat. And that in the spring, as the temperatures are warming, rather than removing layers, you want to wear more layers in order to be a little bit uncomfortably warm, so that in the heat of the summer, you're better at cooling your body.

1 (55m 27s):
Do I have that right? Yeah. And maybe, do you know the saying and would you be willing to share it? Yeah. Only the Swedes and, and Danes will be able to understand maybe the Norwegians too. If you don't know it, that's okay.

2 (55m 39s):
Yeah. So I know the, I know the, the concept of it, because we say it, you should, you should wear less before winter and, and more before summer. So, no,

1 (55m 48s):
Well, there it is in English, so I, it doesn't have to be esoteric, but Okay.

2 (55m 52s):
Yeah. And, and you're completely right. And I think this is the, this is just something that we know in the Scandinavian countries. I think that we, we, we in intuitively know this, but if we just go back a little bit in history, I think that around the 1950s, the, the Russian government went out and said, well, we should do something about the to tuberculosis pandemic or epidemic that were at this time. So they, they wanted to have the, the people be more resilient to the cold and also increase our immune system. So in Scandinavia, and actually also in Russia, we put our babies outside to sleep in the prom.

2 (56m 35s):
And that is like to also to to get more resistant to the cold, but also to increase our immune system. And we still do that in Denmark. So we we're not

1 (56m 44s):
Do you really?

2 (56m 45s):
Yeah, we do.

1 (56m 45s):
Babies are taken out in the cold,

2 (56m 47s):
In the snow, in frosty rain, everything. My two boys have been sleeping out in winter, or at least the fir their first many 3, 4, 5 years, because it's like very good for them. And they get a better immune system and get resilient to the cold. So they will have less colds. And also they run around in a t-shirt when it's super cold because they have activated all the brown fat. I didn't understand at that time. I must, I must say, but I kind of like intuitively also new because we have inherited this way of doing things with our culture. So, and I have heard people coming from the US saying, Danes are crazy. They put their babies outside in proms and leave them there, and then they go inside and drink coffee on the cafes.

1 (57m 33s):
Well, I don't think Danes are crazy. I I, I I adore the No, they're, they're amazing culture and people, I'm so fortunate to have family members from Denmark, but I did notice, so when, when we were in Copenhagen and, and I know we, we saw you there not long ago. That was June. The water in the harbor was co was cold. Yeah. For, for, even though the Pacific is close to here, which is very cold, felt pretty cold, but I, it was summertime ish, so people were in summertime mode, right. T-shirts and shorts and things of that, that sort. But it did strike me that people in Copenhagen are dramatically fitter than they are in the United States.

1 (58m 20s):
I mean, first of all, everyone's bicycling everywhere. Yeah. Not many people wearing sunglasses. So trying to extract as much photon energy from the sun as possible, which I support, as everyone knows. That's a, I'm a big fan of getting sun. But also when we did see swimmers, they were swimming in this cold water and like it was nothing. And their, the range in age of the swimmers was what was remarkable. You saw the kind of fit triathlete looking types, but also young kids, like really young kids. And then people probably in their, again, their, their seventies, eighties, maybe even nineties. Yeah. Really remarkable. Vastly different than what you see if you go to the ocean here in Los Angeles or, or elsewhere.

1 (59m 3s):
So yeah, you Scandinavians are onto something. With this,

Inside Tracker (59m 7s):
I'd like to take a quick break and thank our sponsor Inside Tracker. Inside Tracker is a personalized nutrition platform that analyzes data from your blood and d n A to help you better understand your body and help you reach your health goals. I'm long been a believer in getting regular blood work done for the simple reason that many of the factors that impact your immediate and long-term health can only be assessed with a quality blood test. The problem with a lot of blood and DNA tests out there, however, is that they'll give you information about certain lipid markers or hormone markers, but no information about what to do with all of that data inside Tracker makes it very easy to look at your levels of hormones, metabolic factors, lipids, et cetera, and then to assess what sorts of behavioral nutritional supplementation or perhaps other interventions you might want to use in order to bring those numbers into the ranges that are optimal for your health. Inside tracker's ultimate plan now includes three new hormone markers that are critical to measure during a woman's reproductive and menopausal years. These are estradiol, progesterone, and thyroid stimulating hormone. If you'd like to try inside tracker, you can go to inside tracker.com/huberman to get 20% off any of inside tracker's plans. Again, that's inside tracker.com/huberman To get 20% off,

1 (1h 0m 17s):
I'd like to talk about your study. If you could give us a little bit of the backdrop about what motivated that study and then, and then walk us through what you did, you know, who the subjects were, what you had them do, what you measured in as much detail as you would like to share, because I think it's such an important, you know, even fair to say landmark study because it also explored not just cold, but sauna and the, the couse of cold and sauna as a way to probe metabolism and brown fat and other markers as well. And as you do this, I'm hoping at some point that you might tell us some of the observations that you might have made that interested you that perhaps were not in the paper.

1 (1h 1m 3s):
Cuz that's one of the great benefits of sitting across from somebody who, who did the work in detail. So yeah, if you could tell us about your study and what you did and what you discovered.

2 (1h 1m 12s):
Thank you for that question, Andrew. I, I love to like also explain a little bit what did we do because when people read this kind of paper, they just see the numbers, they don't see what, what happened before that. And human studies are very different from, from my study, my study, you can do a knockout of something and then everything is like perfectly matched and controlled. Doing human studies is very far different from that because people are different even in the groups. So yeah. But what we, when I started this research in 2016, I did not really know what the brown fat was. So I started reading up on all this and I was very interested in preventive medicine.

2 (1h 1m 54s):
Also, the studies that I did before Brown, brown fat was also like very much in, in the preventive side. Like how can we, that was about something else, but the sweet tooth and how can we lower our sweet tooth and stuff like that. So, but after that I wanted to, to do something new. So I looked into the brown fat, got hired in this fantastic research group where they, it's the cell group, so they mostly did cell studies and they didn't have anyone to do a human study yet. And, but they really wanted me to to do that. So I read upon a lot of research about how does the brown fat get activated, what have been done already. And I mentioned the paper before with sleeping in the cold.

2 (1h 2m 35s):
I found that particular paper very fascinating and that was also where at that time I was like, okay, so cold exposure as an intervention of sleeping in the cold could be a good thing to go out and say, well people do this. But on the other hand is first of all, it was already done. That was one thing. But the other thing was like, well I wanted to, to see if we can do like some kind of activity so we can have people move also go and do something, do something together or whatever. And, and, and the code made us think about, well what about winter swimming? And it was kind of like a bit of a joke in the beginning. It's like winter swimming. Yeah, it's gonna activate the brown fat ride.

2 (1h 3m 16s):
But, but when we read the literature, we couldn't really find anything about activation of the brown fat with cold water besides hand and a bucket of cold water that really, that was already there. So we were just thinking, okay, so it should be very potent activation of the brown fat if it's cold water, but very different from cold air. So it was kind of also a new thing we were going into. And we knew that we were gonna do like a more of a, a proof of concept study at the beginning of it because it was like winter swimmers must in theory activate the brown fat, right? But we kind of didn't really know with was this kind of stressor too much, too little or what will happen actually.

2 (1h 4m 2s):
But we had this idea about, well we always say that cold water, winter swimming will activate your metabolism, but do but do we know if it do, does that? No we don't. So, and while this idea was a little bit fun, fun at the beginning, we kind of accepted it was like, okay, let's just try this out. But because we didn't have the funding for it, we was like, okay, let's do a proof of concept study. Let's go with a small number, but enough to see a difference between the groups. So the power calculation of that study is done on what we know from pet ct scannings of the brown fat. So that's the main outcome of that of course.

2 (1h 4m 43s):
So, and we wanted to go a little bit small on the numbers of, of participants because we wanted to dig a little bit deeper into the different mechanisms and also redo some of the, the, the days. So I really wanted to do that to see if I can replicate also the findings. And that's gonna take a lot of, a lot of funding, but it's also gonna take a lot of time to do it. So the proof of concept was just going small, but looking at different mechanisms. We also took fat biopsies for example, and looked at the wide fat to see if there was any differences between the groups before and after and stuff like that. So that's kind of like how it started. And, and, and the first year was like a field study for me.

2 (1h 5m 25s):
So I was not a winter swimmer when I started this. It was just, oh really? No, I wasn't at all. And I would say I was a bit afraid of the cold myself, bit of a cold, sissy, always cold having big socks on and sweaters and stuff like that. So I was like, I am so comfortable. I'm just like everybody else, very comfortable. I like being com completely temperature neutral. But I started like playing with this thought like, well if this is so healthy in theory, I should not pack myself up. I should start not doing that. Yeah. But the first year observation of winter swimmers on the jetty, they kind of joked about it. Say, come on Susan, you need to try this. You cannot study this unless you have tried it.

2 (1h 6m 8s):
And I was like, haha, very funny. Of course I can do that, but I couldn't, I I read the letter too. I understood in theory what happens when you go into cold water. But I completely understood it when I first tried it the first few times. Not so funny. It felt painful. It was just like running too long after a long break and you and your muscles hurt the day after. Right? You, you completely regret that you took that extra mile.

1 (1h 6m 36s):
What about when you say uncomfortable? You mean uncomfortable when you got in and when you were in or uncomfortable afterwards? Because I, I find that on rare occasions, well I should just, full disclosure, I, I do deliberate cold exposure every morning for about a minute to two minutes in a cold plunge. There are days that I miss, but when I'm at home I do that. And when I travel I do a cold shower, I do finish with a warm shower. So, and we'll talk about why that's probably not the best idea, but, and I've been doing it for some years now on and off. But, so just full disclosure, I'm a devotee and I have family members that hate the, the cold, but have gotten into it and, and are starting to like it, but they don't, and I don't necessarily like the experience in the cold water, but I love the way I feel when I get out after.

1 (1h 7m 30s):
And I, I'm a hundred percent on that statement about loving it when I get out occasionally it feels good to be in there. It feels invigorating and I think I've learned to control the gas reflex and the hyperventilation and I just have told myself what we know, which is that the four brain struggles to engage for the first 20 or 30 seconds. But if you can get past that wall, it's, it's far easier to, to push through. But when you say that it was really uncomfortable, do you mean the experience of getting in or you also felt lousy afterward?

2 (1h 8m 0s):
Yeah, it's, and very important to clear that out. I only felt very uncomfortable doing it at the moment, but afterwards, the first time I went with, with a group, and actually my husband was as as well because I, I really wanted someone I knew coming along because it's very normal if you haven't done this before, you feel a little bit anxious about it. And this is jonin studies as well because blood pressure and heart rate goes up in, in those who are new to this kind of activity. So I was a little bit anxious about it, so it was really uncomfortable just doing it. But afterwards, as soon as I got up, I felt fantastic and we went into the sauna and I did three rounds because I just loved it.

2 (1h 8m 42s):
I loved the feeling afterwards because you have all these new transmitters going in your brain and you feel more positive. You feel, I feel invigorated. I had so much energy and that like I, I could totally see why people would do this to get energy throughout the day because I definitely had that I didn't have to do three dips to, to get that. I think one would be enough. And I often do that also. Now today I do one dip, sometimes I do two or three dips in, in one round. You can say in one day. But often it's like just one or two times a week for me that is enough to, to get that energy and to get that positive feeling. And, and I think that that is also why i, I put up my study in that way.

2 (1h 9m 26s):
I wanted to study the lowest dose, you can say the lowest amount that we can get away with but still see health benefits. So what I observed there on the jetty was that some did it a long time, they were in the water for a very long time and to me it seemed maybe a little bit extreme. Could

1 (1h 9m 45s):
You gimme an example of long time?

2 (1h 9m 46s):
Well, so maybe they were like really swimming and they could be 20 minutes or half an hour. That's a long time. That's a long time. And there was like ice and people who came up. I, I mean I just didn't really feel that this is something that I wanted to go out and recommend to people after my kids. You didn't

1 (1h 10m 3s):
Want any research subjects dying either, because if you're not adapted, I mean the people, you know, people can do that. Also a 20 minute cold shower or 20 minute cold plunge. I know people do it, but it's probably not a good idea.

2 (1h 10m 15s):
No, probably not. It's gonna exhaust yourselves and they'll make them age too fast. So Exactly. That's when you pass that hermetic stress, the, the healthy stress level, that's what is happening. The quite opposite is, is almost chronic stress actually in the cells. Well what happened then was that I found out if, if I want to have this protocol get through ethical comedy, I, I really needed to go like very like sleek with the not too long and, and make sure that they were also very healthy and, and to get approval of course of this study. But what I did was to, to recruit winter swimmers who already have been swimming for two or three seasons and I just observed them.

2 (1h 10m 58s):
I said, I'm not gonna do an intervention study yet. I did that after. But I, I wanted to do like a proof of concept where they were already adapted to the cold and then compare them to a match control group who were matched on, on, you can say diet. So were they vegetarian or not? And one of them worse than each group also.

1 (1h 11m 21s):
They weren't all vegetarians?

2 (1h 11m 22s):
No, no, no. Just one in each group. Yeah,

1 (1h 11m 24s):
I was gonna say with all the amazing fish and meat in, in Denmark, I'd have a hard time being a vegetarian. No, no. The breads are amazing. The fruits and vegetables too, but okay, so there were a couple vegetarians in each group. Yeah,

2 (1h 11m 34s):
One one in each. Yeah. Okay. And they were matched on token

1 (1h 11m 36s):
Vegetarian. I have family members of vegetarian, so I'm just poking fun the

2 (1h 11m 42s):
Yeah, but they were, they were matched on different things. So what we usually match them on is also bmi. We chose one gender in this study and we would always choose both men and women normally. But we do see that there are different brown fat levels depending on gender. So women have more brown fat than men. Really?

1 (1h 12m 4s):
Hmm,

2 (1h 12m 4s):
Hmm.

1 (1h 12m 5s):
Yeah.

2 (1h 12m 5s):
Interesting. Yeah, I think it's interesting that

1 (1h 12m 9s):
Study.

2 (1h 12m 10s):
Yeah. Yeah. Why actually, I think it's interesting because women are also smaller, so in size mass, right? But they also have a lower peripheral temperature, especially on hands and ears. And

1 (1h 12m 23s):
Is that right? That's, that's documented, yeah. That women do run colder than men. Yeah.

2 (1h 12m 27s):
And there's those

1 (1h 12m 28s):
Physiologically I didn't say psychologically

2 (1h 12m 30s):
No, no, no, we

1 (1h 12m 31s):
Won't, we won't go to the psychological cold, cold heat

2 (1h 12m 34s):
That's different. Something else.

1 (1h 12m 36s):
That's a different podcast. Yeah,

2 (1h 12m 38s):
Another time. So women are just colder physically, so on hands and ears it's measured on that and, and, and feet as well. So compared to men and men have bigger hearts than women and they can pump out more blood peripheral than in a woman's body. So they, that could be an explanation for the colder hands. For example, thermal comfortable state is also different between gen genders. So men are more comfortable at 22 degrees Celsius and women are thermo comfortable at 24 degrees Celsius. And this is, okay,

1 (1h 13m 14s):
So the thermostat wars of home have been now validated. Yes,

2 (1h 13m 19s):
That's the start. Two

1 (1h 13m 20s):
Degrees Celsius. By the way, prior to starting recording, I made the executive decision that we were gonna go with Celsius throughout the podcast because the majority of the world uses Celsius. So for those of you that think in Fahrenheit, the internet is your friend in making those conversions. So we're sticking with Celsius. So men tend to be thermo comfortable at 22 degrees Celsius women at 24. Okay, interesting.

2 (1h 13m 48s):
Explains a lot about like also some arguments in the homes where men are turning down the heater and women are turning up the heater and they cannot really, so it's, it's really, it's, I'm on both sides here. I understand the men, we understand the women, but it, there is a difference there. Which was also one of the reasons why we had, we in this proof of concept study chose one gender. So it is not like only because we wanted to study men, men, it was just to see, to eliminate all the confounding factors which could have an impact on, on our results. So that was one of the reasons, but also because we, yeah, so women have have more brown fat than men and otherwise we would have to like do four groups or something like that.

2 (1h 14m 32s):
And not having funding yet we were like, okay, we need to do like just one a group, just a control group and then a and a group who were always a winter swimmers. So I recruited winter swimmers who have been swimming for two to three seasons because I wanted them to be already adapted but not going too long in the water. So they told me, I did a lot of screening here, of course beforehand and interviews to see, to ask them how much do you do and how much do you, how long do you stay in the water? And I monitored how long did they then stay in the water and recruited based on that? They only did like two to three times per week.

2 (1h 15m 12s):
It seems reasonable for, for, for Denmark at least to do that. And they stayed only in the water for one to two minutes. So the coast subsides very quickly and you would get this activation of your rest and digest system, which is your parasympathetic nervous system. So the, the other branch of your auto no nervous system. And you get that activation because you submerge into cold water. And when you do that, you have an activation of your diving response and that's gonna slow down the, you can say the, the consumption of oxygen also in your body and that's gonna slow down your heart rate. And could

1 (1h 15m 51s):
I pause you on this cuz I've heard this before, that when we get into cold water shower or immersion, we get this sympathetic autonomic response. So increased blood pressure, increased heart rate release of norepinephrine from the locust Aurelius in the brain release of adrenaline dopamine, adrenaline from the, from the adrenals dopamine presumably within the brain. But that the parasympathetic response is activated when we put our face into cold water or go underwater. And that's a calming relaxation response. So this brings us back to, I don't wanna take us off track from you describing the study, but this brings us back to the first question, which is, if I go completely underwater for a moment when I start my cold plunge, does that change the physiological outcome as compared to if I just submerged myself up to the neck and that and actually nowadays there's seems to be a little bit of a movement online of people putting a bowl of ice water on their countertop and submerging their face into it.

1 (1h 16m 50s):
Yeah. Did you see this, let's just start obviously more and more posts about this. Yeah. So could you just touch on the, what the dive reflex is and why it acti perhaps activates the parasympathetic response, this calming response?

2 (1h 17m 3s):
Well also the diving reflects is activated when you're submerged into cold water,

1 (1h 17m 8s):
Even just to the neck. Yeah. Or I thought you had to get your face under I'm not, I'm not arguing different. You're the expert. I just wanna,

2 (1h 17m 14s):
Yeah, I haven't really, I haven't read that. I've just seen that you can activate your, that diving response as soon as you go under water with your body. So you don't have to do it with your face as far as I understand. Yeah, I could, I could be wrong though. Yeah. So when, when you activate your diving response, you will slow down your, your oxygen consumption in your body. And that is because the body tries to res preserve oxygen so you will not get hypothermic too fast. So it's kind of like a survival system in your body. So this survival system is very important for us of course.

2 (1h 17m 55s):
So that will be activated and because of that you will have to maybe one minute or so that can be precise on that because I maybe also varies a bit in, in humans. So one to two minutes you will have full activation of the sympathetic nervous system but also the parasympathetic nervous system and that's gonna activate for example something like serotonin in your brain, which is like also good for mental balance and people feeling in mental balance afterwards they after they go up. So that is like measured on a questionnaires and also measure like on anecdotes. Of course people tell all the time that they feel good afterwards. We need studies on this.

2 (1h 18m 36s):
So if anyone's sitting out there thinking that's interesting, then please do some studies on that. Yeah. Agree to, to get more out on that. Yeah.

1 (1h 18m 44s):
So you had, so you observed these winter swimmers who are done this for a few seasons. Yeah. They're coming around for a new season of winter swimming and you've decided to recruit them as subjects they are getting into cold water climbing down a ladder or jumping into the water up to their neck. Yeah.

2 (1h 19m 2s):
Climbing.

1 (1h 19m 2s):
Yeah. Okay. Climbing down a ladder into the, cuz this is done outdoors. Yeah. What a fun study to do. My, my graduate thesis was done under fluorescent lights with no windows in a, in a building that, I mean I had a ton of fun as a PhD student. I actually lived in the laboratory as a PhD student. I loved it so much, but not something required to do a PhD by the way. But they're climbing down the ladder. Yeah. Getting in up to their next, staying in for one to two minutes and then getting out. And how many times a week are they doing this?

2 (1h 19m 31s):
So they do this two to three times per week and for each time they go each day they go, they take three rounds of, so three dips and two sauna sessions. So they start in the cold and they end in the cold water.

1 (1h 19m 44s):
Okay. So it's get in for one to two minutes then get out and get into the sauna. Yeah. What is the temperature of the sauna?

2 (1h 19m 52s):
About 80 degrees Celsius.

1 (1h 19m 54s):
Okay. Then how long are they in the sauna?

2 (1h 19m 57s):
So they stayed there for 10 to 15 minutes. So depending on if they went two times per week or three times per week.

1 (1h 20m 4s):
Okay. And then they get back into the cold for a few minutes? Yeah, two minutes.

2 (1h 20m 8s):
Up to two minutes, yeah.

1 (1h 20m 9s):
Okay. Then back into the sauna 15 minutes or so. Yeah. Then back into the cold for a third round. Yeah. Back into the sauna and then, then they're

2 (1h 20m 20s):
Ending on the cold and

1 (1h 20m 21s):
Then back into the cold again. Yeah. And then ending on cold. Yeah. And, and we'll talk about why it's important to end on cold, the so-called sober principle. How cold was the water in this particular given average? Cuz I realize it's outdoor winter swimming, so it's gonna vary depending on wind chill and things as well. Of course, of

2 (1h 20m 39s):
Course. So it's a very uncontrolled environment to do this kind of study and, but I wanted to do something that was also very close to something people can do for free going out in nature and use that and also have the nature like it's a very healthy impact on us. It lowers our stress, stress level A as well. So by doing so, I also measured the temperature every time they went. So I have this graph and it's actually in the winter swimming book. It shows the temperature in Denmark going like from October to April and it's like starts at 12 degrees, I think it's around 12, 12 degrees celsius, the water. And then it goes down to two degrees in on average in January and then up again.

2 (1h 21m 23s):
So it's within the spectrum of very cold water, I would say from around 15, 15 degrees Celsius and, and down. But it was actually not colder than like two to four degrees, like in, in on average when it, it was the coldest. So it doesn't have to be that cold to be good enough and, and enough to activate our metabolism.

1 (1h 21m 44s):
And what time of day are the participants doing this cold sauna alternation.

2 (1h 21m 50s):
So I think they did this throughout the day. So I didn't control whether they wanted to go in the morning and the afternoon or, or in the evening. At that time where I set up this study, I w I was not controlling it in that way. I wanted them to go whenever they had time. And I also think that is the most important message to give out, to give to people is when do it when you have time. It's not if, if if doing it, eh, when you get home from work and it's six o'clock in the evening and this is the time where you are, where you can do it, then, then then try out if it's gonna impact your sleep or not. If it doesn't impact your sleep, then fine, but you have to try for yourself and find out what works for you.

2 (1h 22m 32s):
It's the same for coffee for example, right? Some people can drink coffee in the evening and go to bed and they can sleep. I can't

1 (1h 22m 39s):
Or exercise. Or

2 (1h 22m 40s):
Exercise. Exactly. Yeah. Yeah. So I can't, I can't do that. And that's because the coffee exercise, cold water immersion is gonna activate your sympathetic nervous system. You have an increase in stress response in your body and, and that's gonna make it really hard to fall asleep for some people at least maybe you are super exhausted anyways and then you will just crash anyways. But yeah, but that's, that's the only thing. So I just told them to do this if they can during the daytime and that's primarily what they also did.

1 (1h 23m 11s):
And then all along your measuring brown fat by way of this infrared camera. Right. So what did you observe in terms of changes in brown fat? How quickly did that occur? And, and then I'd like to ask also about sauna a bit more because earlier you mentioned that you can activate brown fat with sauna as well with heat.

2 (1h 23m 33s):
Oh, heat on the surface.

1 (1h 23m 33s):
Yeah, surface of the skin. How long did it take before you observed significant increases in brown fat and was it increased density of mi brown fat or distribution was it, you know, showing expansion to different regions throughout the body? And maybe you could also touch on some of the changes in, in insulin sensitivity and metabolism.

2 (1h 23m 55s):
Yeah, very good. Good question and and, and I didn't mention this be before, but besides measuring temperature as an outcome for brown fat activity, we also did pet M r MRI scanning of the brown fat. So this is like the, the golden standard for measuring brown fat and it's not very feasible for normal people to get an an A pet CT or pet m r i scanning of the brown fat is super expensive. So we had both to see if we could have like a continuous measure of brown fat in humans because that was already not, not out there. So I wanted to see during both the experimental days but also during day and night, what kind of like circadian rhythm do we have in our brown fat activity.

2 (1h 24m 45s):
So that's why I wanted to have that as well. So the PET CT scanning or the PET MRI scanning was to see upon code activation stimulation for some hours. Do we have activation, can we see the brown fat in this subject? And also during thermal neutrality or thermo comfortable state, how is that activated in each of the group? Of course.

1 (1h 25m 8s):
Ah, so you want to see how comfortable people were away from the cold water and sauna just at different temperatured environments, is that right?

2 (1h 25m 17s):
Yes. I also measured that How comfortable are you? I had, I made this scale like visual analog scale and asked them how comfortable do you feel with this temperature? And throughout the study days during code exposure and thermo comfortable day, I had a whole day where I just kept them thermo comfortable to see do they activate the brown fat if they're just completely thermo, comfortable, as good as we could get with that. Because we were asking people on a scale from one one to 10 and five being thermo comfortable, where are you on the scale? So one would be very cold and 10 would be super burning hot. Yeah. And so that was a way to like try to figure out how do they actually feel.

2 (1h 26m 1s):
Also during the studies also measured electromyography so of of muscles to see do they shiver during the cooling day? Sometimes people shiver before they know they're really shivering. So I had Oh, interesting. Yeah,

1 (1h 26m 16s):
So so our conscious perception of shivering might not be the best readout of shiver. Yeah,

2 (1h 26m 20s):
Well you, if you also get adapted to the cold water, you will have less shivering, they will be less vigorous, they will be very small. So you wouldn't probably know that you are shivering because this, the shivering is so small and the mitochondria in the muscle cells will be so densed that it doesn't need to shiver maybe that much to get that thermogenesis going compared to when you're completely new to cold water exposure and you're not adapted, then the body needs to create these mitochondria, these energy fabrics to keep you, you warm. And that's also what's the exercise is in the beginning.

2 (1h 27m 0s):
But when we measured this, we, we did see that the winter swimmers were shivering less or having less vigorous shivering when they said I'm cold. So even though they, they perception, their perception of the cope was pretty similar in, in the, in the groups we could see that the, the activation of the, the muscles that we measured on were different and morbids in the control group.

1 (1h 27m 29s):
Were the subjects incentivized to be in the study? Were they paid or anything of that sort or they just happened to like doing cold and sauna and so that's why they did the study?

2 (1h 27m 38s):
Well they got paid a little bit for it, but not much. And that's how we do the studies.

1 (1h 27m 45s):
Sure. I was just curious. Yeah, yeah. I was just curious. There might be some folks that wonder, so, so what did you discover in terms of changes in brown fat insulin resistance or insulin sensitivity rather and metabolism?

2 (1h 27m 57s):
So what we, we saw was we had these kind of different measures to see what's to try and un rel what what's actually going on when they are already adapted to the coldwater compared to a control group who was matched on on various parameters. We, we did see that the winter swimmers had an increased insulin sensitivity. They produced less insulin on all the experimental days. So besides from just cooling them and measuring the brown fat on each of these cooling days or two cooling days and one thermo comfortable day, right. So I wanted to measure insulin when they were just, they were fasting, meaning that they hadn't eaten in eight hours before the study day and they were completely length still not moving just in a bed.

2 (1h 28m 49s):
And we measured insulin during the experimental day just to see how, what level are they on? And we could see that the, the winter swim had had lower production of insulin and they also when they had an glucose drink, so we give them that to see if they to test before we enroll them in studies to see if they have diabetes for example. And not knowing for example, that that wouldn't, that would like ruin maybe the, the studies. So we test for that and see if they have like a normal curve. So what we did see in that was that the winter swimmers had a faster glucose clearance in the bloodstream. So after two hours we could see that they had a lower level and it went, the curve went down faster than in the control group.

1 (1h 29m 33s):
So despite having lower insulin release, they have better blood glucose clearance. Yeah. Which is really what you want, what we all seek. Right. You don't, excessive insulin is bad. Insulin being a more or less a chaperone for blood glucose can do all sorts of other things as well. Of course. But, and having high blood glucose obviously terrible. Yeah. For cells, especially brain cells, I don't think people realize how toxic high blood glucose is having high glucose is brain. If you want to kill neurons, you make, you make their put 'em in an environment where there's too much sugar. Ah, okay. Oh yeah, very. Yeah, very neurotoxic. I mean that's, and they're mechanisms like insulin that buffer that we keep, you know, keeping blood glucose in a reasonable range so that that doesn't happen.

1 (1h 30m 20s):
I mean I think that's why people will go into insulin anemic shock. Mm Hypoglycemic shock is also possible. So that range in which neurons are happy is not a b is not a tremendously large range. Incidentally, the range in which neurons are are happy and surviving is much greater as one gets colder than when you heat up. I mean you, you can basically destroy brain cells by getting too hot for too long. Oh yeah,

2 (1h 30m 44s):
Yeah.

1 (1h 30m 45s):
You can definitely destroy brain cells permanently by getting too cold for too long. But it, you have to get really, really cold for a really long time. Yeah, yeah.

2 (1h 30m 53s):
Very interesting.

1 (1h 30m 54s):
Yeah, we we're thinking about doing an episode on sort of survival of the brain after death kind of things, which actually happens, you know, you hear about these people who are declared dead and then come back, go ahead. And there is actually now a lot of cryo-preservation type approaches for that. This is, anyway, we, we risk going into the, the, the esoteric now, so I'll steer us back to our discussion about your study. But, so if I do the math, these subjects are in the cold. Let's say they're doing three rounds of cold for one to two minutes, three ti two or three times a week. What were the thresholds that you discovered were important for getting these positive changes in such as reduced blood sugar or clearance of blood sugar being more efficient, reduced insulin, improved brown fat distribution and density?

1 (1h 31m 48s):
How much cold exposure do people need? How much heat exposure do people need in order to extract these benefits?

2 (1h 31m 55s):
Yeah, so when we then calculated the numbers together, we could see that this was ended up being 11 minutes in total per week. So not in one session of course, but they had two to three visits to the water and the sauna per week. So when we divide that out, it corresponds to being in cold water one to two minutes at a time, but also in the sauna 10 to 15 minutes at a time. And I think this is very like also similar to what we see in other studies when we look for example to the observational studies from the Finn cohort study from Lakin Iel for example. They published this very amazing paper in 2015, some results from this long cohort study where they show that that up to 30 minutes in the sauna was healthy and they, you, you lower your risk of cardiovascular disease and that's like the threshold.

2 (1h 32m 50s):
And if you go further than that then there is not more healthy benefits to, to gain from that. So, and before that it's like 19 minutes, then you will have this dose response relationship up to 19 minutes. That's really in decreasing your risk of cardiovascular diseases. And I think we need that's per week,

1 (1h 33m 11s):
90 minutes per week.

2 (1h 33m 12s):
90 minutes per session now? Per session? Yeah, per session. Okay. If we then compare that with my study, which was 10 to 15 minutes per session, then I think it fits very well with what we call the hetic stress or healthy stress that you expose the cells to this kind of like potent very stressful situation where they increase heat shock purines in the cells and that will repair the cells. But if you then overdo it and you go beyond the maybe 30 minutes in the sauna, this observational study from Finland with more than up to 2000 sauna bathers where they have followed these for 20 years, they see that 30 minutes possession is like enough and if you go above that you don't get more health benefits out of it.

2 (1h 34m 1s):
So I think there's the window where we can say the healthy stress corresponds to like 10 minutes and, and I think it's like per session. Per session, okay. And it's not, it's not much actually. So you don't need to, it shows that you don't have to expose yourself very much to the heat or very much actually to the cold to get this healthy benefits from going into cold, going to heat and have healthy benefits on your cardiovascular system. So I think this is very important also messaged to, to, to get out that you don't have to go extreme, you don't have to swim for a a half an hour in the cold water. You can go in the water for one to two minutes per session, but go up to 11 minutes per week in total.

2 (1h 34m 44s):
And for the sauna, my study showed 57 minutes in total per week. And if we also then divide it out on these two to three days and two sessions each day correspond to 10 to 15 minutes. So it's a low threshold, but I think it's, it's good to have that to maybe we can aim for that if, if people need to have something to, to aim for. And I think, and I think it's really good to have that B because then you, you don't have, then you don't overdo it and if you overdo it, you exhaust the cells and that will increase your risk of cardiovascular disease also. So,

1 (1h 35m 20s):
Well I get a lot of questions about this and I did solicit for questions for this podcast on, on Twitter and one of the questions that I got was, as one becomes more cold adapted, do the benefits start to wear off or can people do too much cold exposure? And of course the answer to that is yes, you can become hypothermic, but I'm sensing a different answer now, which is, if I understand correctly, the threshold is 11 minutes total per week of deliberate cold exposure divided into two or three sessions of maybe one to three minutes depending on how long somebody stays in. And then 57 minutes, I want to be careful not to round up to an hour but divided into maybe three 20 minute sessions or so, you know, so one doesn't have to be perfect as long as you get above No, beyond that threshold.

1 (1h 36m 5s):
Exactly. But I, I wonder something which is, is it the case that if somebody said, oh you know, I'm just going to do one 11 minute session per week, that might actually not be as beneficial as dividing it up because what you told us earlier is that the hormetic response depends on having that cold shock. You actually don't want to become too cold adapted. I mean once the blood pressure response drops down, so in minute four, five, and six, yeah you're getting very cold and you're shivering, but you're one is not getting the autonomic stimulus that they want. I guess I could liken this to if exercise worked in a way where it was only the first few minutes of exercise that really triggered the adaptation.

1 (1h 36m 47s):
Of course this is not how it works, but in fact probably quite the opposite. But if that were the case then it's not simply the total amount of exercise but dividing up the, the, the sessions into little bouts where every single time it acts as a, as a stimulus. Yes. That seems to be the key here. Yes, this is very important because having watched the landscape of this on social media but also in books and generally I think you're the first person to really touch on this, that the goal is not to get so cold adapted that you can sit in for the full 11 minutes in one session where the goal isn't to be able to do an hour of very hot sauna if you want to, I suppose people could do it for other reasons, but if the goal is to improve these health metrics Yeah, then the idea is to keep the stimulus a stimulus

2 (1h 37m 37s):
Short. Exactly. Yeah.

1 (1h 37m 39s):
Great. Well this also, I think there's practical feasibility as you pointed out cuz getting into a cold shower or cold immersion or natural body water for a couple of minutes is far less, you know, challenging to most people than finding a full morning to go, you know, know spend there. Yeah. But I've never really heard it articulated that the longer sessions might not be beneficial and might actually be detrimental. That's very important. Were there any other observations that you made that did not make it into the paper or that were kind of in the, the margin notes in terms of psychological benefits it or anything of that sort?

1 (1h 38m 23s):
There was this recent study on soldiers that talked about weight loss at sort of a controversial study for a lot of reasons. But one of the things they remarked in the paper was that there were a lot of psychological changes improved buffering against anxiety. They, even the men and women in that study reported one of the significant effects was significantly improved sexual satisfaction. Of course they didn't tell us what that meant for these subjects, but, so we won't go there, but, but a number of subjective improvements. Was there anything that you observed or took note of in, in your study that perhaps didn't make the main abstract but that we should be aware of?

2 (1h 38m 58s):
Yeah, there were some, and I am, I'm today I regret that I didn't measure on sleep, for example. I, I frankly didn't really think about that when I I, when I designed the study. So we were very much occupied with the metabolism and kind of had the thought maybe this could impact sleep quality. And I wish I just, I had the thought that why don't you just ask them in a questionnaire? But I asked them every morning or everyone who's not many mornings to just two mornings actually we measured on, but the winter swimmers told us before I rode them that they had a really good s sleep quality.

2 (1h 39m 46s):
The control group also had that, but they told me on the day when we measured brown fat on, on a day and the night. So for actually two days and two nights they told me that they didn't, they had a good night's sleep, but they also woke up. So it's just telling me that they also had like a quick wake up and then they fell asleep again and the winter swimmers. So they have a really good sleep. So it's like in, in general they also say we, we sleep very well, I sleep very well. So it's anecdotally in general, it corresponds to what I heard in my study, but nothing that I measured on, which would, could be fun to do in the future.

2 (1h 40m 29s):
But we didn't measure on sleep quality. That would been have been a really good idea to do. They also told me that they were very comfortable when they were cold. They, they don't mind winter swimmers, they don't mind going out, for example, in in the coat with a t-shirt. They were also less scared of showing the skim. That was also one observation.

1 (1h 40m 52s):
Interesting. Yeah. So kind of a reduced social anxiety. Yeah,

2 (1h 40m 55s):
They were just so comfortable in the lab. You, as you just mentioned before, coats on and everybody's running around. I was very busy and all the other scientists out in the hallway and also my supervisor had her our office down down the hallway and, and one of the winter swimmers one day just got out of bed after, had been in the study for eight hours. We, it was a long day, right? He jumped out of the bed and had his clothes in the bathroom and he went out completely naked. He didn't care, he just went out. It was like, oh wait.

1 (1h 41m 30s):
So that's a side effect perhaps of getting too comfortable with the cold and we're not recommending that. No. Although in your book you did a, you dedicated some, lemme start that again. Although in your book you dedicated some pages to naked winter swimming, or I should say naked cold water exposure Yeah. As opposed to with bathing suit. Yeah. Are there any data on this? I'm sorry, chuckling, but I think in most places in the United States it's skinny dipping is not, is not legal. Most public beaches. There are few in fact where I I, my laboratory before moving to Stanford was in San Diego and I at the Salt Institute for Biological Studies, beautiful building, incredible sciences done there.

1 (1h 42m 17s):
The beach right below that's called Blacks Beach. Okay. And, and it's a known nude beach. And so whenever tourists were heading down the, the stairway there, I would, you know, sort of let them know, especially if they had kids, I'd let them know, you know, it's a, and it's a nude beach of a particular, of a particular genre. So I, I'd give them a little warning about what, what they could expect down below. It's a, in any event, those, those beaches are quite rare in the United States, maybe compared to Europe, I don't know. But yeah, maybe. Yeah. So is there anything special about cloth list versus clothed exposure?

2 (1h 42m 53s):
Yeah, I think in, in that sense we are a bit more free with this kind of like, but but remember we also had this winter swimming culture for so upper hundreds of years in Denmark. And the winter, the oldest winter swimming clubs that we have, especially the one we have in Copenhagen where I did my next study, which we haven't talked about, but, and it's also not pub published yet, but in that winter swimming club, it's the oldest one we have and it's huge and they, they swim naked at this facility. Men and women. Men and women, and they have sauna where they can go in together and they also have separate saunas. But it's very much a Danish thing. And, and I think it's, I think it's, it's, I think it's good if people want that.

2 (1h 43m 36s):
And I had it in my book because people want to know if they have to swim with their baiting suit on or if they can take it off or what's the, what's the difference, is there any difference in this? And if you ask me, there is no difference. Oh, if you have your little skinny bikini on, it's not gonna do any difference to your cold exposure or your adaptation. It's not gonna do any difference for your benefits of course. But I think that it has something else. It has something to do with how you also observe yourself, how you observe your, your surroundings. And it's some, some sense of freedom in skinny dipping. So I think people in Denmark who does this is they do the winter swimming because they feel free when they do, they come home from work, they go to this club and they skinny dip and they feel like in touch with nature and they have maybe done this their whole life.

2 (1h 44m 27s):
So this is an old tradition in Denmark in some of the clubs, but the newer clubs that are coming, they don't, they don't skinny dip. So everyone has bathing suit. I never skinny dip because there are people around people with phones and taking pictures all the time. So this

1 (1h 44m 44s):
So different, different nowadays everything's recorded. Yeah.

2 (1h 44m 47s):
Yeah. And also this, this old tradition is also fading away because of that.

1 (1h 44m 53s):
Yeah. I, I use sauna and cold at home, but when I travel there, there's a, a banya. So Russian banya has hot sauna and cold plunge. There's one in San Francisco called Archimedes Banya and that one is clothing optional. So some people are clothed such as myself and then other people are not, and it's co-ed most of the time I think they have male female separated evenings or something like that. And then the other banya is spa 88, which is an on wall street in New York is an amazing banya as well. And these are starting to crop up in different cities or maybe they've been there for a long time. And as deliberate cold exposure and sauna gets more popular, more people are using them. The the one in New York that I, that spy 88 is always clothed.

1 (1h 45m 38s):
And it's interesting because, you know, people hear naked or skinny dipping and they, they might get certain ideas in mind. It, yeah, all these places are very well lit and they all have a tone of kind of, of health that is about the kind of health and, and, and wellness. I guess the point being that there's no requirement to do one thing or the other. Although in the studies that you did, obviously people were clothed, but I I did, I did pay attention to those pages in your book. I thought it was interesting that you put some, some dedicated passages in your book related to this. And I think it,

2 (1h 46m 11s):
My publisher wanted that. Oh, your publisher wanted that? Yeah. It was not me. It was interesting. Like my publisher really wanted, have a little discussion about that. So I was like, okay, well

1 (1h 46m 19s):
I think it, you know, it points to a larger theme, which is I think for a lot of people who already do these practices, there's no shock there. Yeah. For people that do not do deliberate cold exposure or sauna, I think that, you know, there is this idea perhaps that, oh, you know, these are traditions that are kind of fringe or that they're, and I just, I want to cue that point because there's so many things that are happening right now in biomedical research and medicine. You know, serious quality, peer reviewed studies published in excellent journals like your paper on things like deliberate cold exposure, sauna, the use of particular supplements, natural, natural herbs and supplements.

1 (1h 47m 3s):
I mean, there's an entire branch of the National Institutes of Health in the United States dedicated just to the study of supplements and behavioral interventions for health, like meditation and breath work. Really fantastic. Incredible, incredible. It's really incredible. And psychedelics, of course, being something that for a long time was part of a certain community and feel and now is being frankly, adopted by mainstream medi medicine, even pharma. So it, the, the times are changing. And so yes, I think it's important to know that it's perfectly acceptable and encouraged to wear clothing, so.

2 (1h 47m 35s):
Absolutely. Absolutely. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And, and one other thing that I wanted to, to mention, going back to your questions around with, there were any observations in the studies which we really maybe haven't discussed yet, and maybe it's in, in the back of the, the paper and not mentioned that much was one of the winter swimmers didn't have any brown fat when we measured him zero zero. And in, we do see this in, in in previous studies as well, that some humans don't have any brown fat. Was

1 (1h 48m 8s):
He, did he carry a lot of white fat adipose tissue. Was he No. Was he obese?

2 (1h 48m 11s):
No, he wasn't. No, he was not obese because that he would not have been in the study then.

1 (1h 48m 16s):
Oh, right. Yes. You mentioned this earlier. Forgive me.

2 (1h 48m 18s):
No, no, it's fine. But he was, but what I did observe before I knew that he didn't have any brown for was that during the cooling experiment where I cooled them for two hours before they go into the pet city scanner, he was not able to control his shivering like the winter swimmers could. So he got, he got very cold very easily compared to the others. So, and without, I didn't know what was different about him, but we could all, all of me and the three others were working on the experiment. We were like, okay, what's going on?

2 (1h 48m 59s):
Because we turned down the, the temperature, but he started like shivering and then we had to turn it up again and it was just all over the place. The temperature, it's not, it wasn't that controlled like the others. It was pretty similar protocol. I could just do pretty much the same because they were same size and also same gender. So it, it, it was easier to like foresee what was gonna happen and when will they start shiver. I quickly learned that, but with this subject it was just with this volunteer was just very much different. And then when we scanned him and didn't find any brown, I, I, I didn't even think about it. So when we scanned him, we didn't see anything.

2 (1h 49m 39s):
I told the pet people said like, oh, you put up the wrong scanning. It

1 (1h 49m 44s):
Was Right. Find the technology. Yeah,

2 (1h 49m 45s):
The technology, it was like this scanning looked like the thermo neutral day. The thermo comfortable day, where we also scanned them to see if they have any brown fat. So you have made a mistake. I was pretty sure. And they re-analysed analyzed this scanning and they just concluded, well, it, the scanning was fine, the experiment went well. It was just that he didn't have any brown fat. Hmm. So he was like, what we just in the paper called brown fat negative. So he didn't have any, and in, in my studies it, it would be called a knockout, so it didn't have any brown fat. So what the observation with him, and I think that would be, that's interesting, is that he both shivered very early on and didn't regulate his temperature as well.

2 (1h 50m 29s):
He also told me that then he was like a five on the scale of how comfortable he felt with the cold and out of, So it was from one to 10 and five being thermal comfortable and 10 being very cold and, and one very hot. So on this slight scale up and up and down. And he, he was like more up and down on this scale than any of the others. It was an observation that I did. But we did see in his blood samples also that his blood samples looked a bit more like the control group. Also his insulin levels were like the control groups, so a little bit higher than the other winter swimmers.

2 (1h 51m 13s):
And he also had, his blood glucose clearance was not as fast as, as the the, the other winter swimmers. So he was like an outlier, what we call it. And in the analysis we also had to take him out of the analysis because he was an outlier. So the results showing that the brown fat is more efficiently activated in the winter swimmers is without him having him in that group. Got it. But it didn't ruin the, the study if we, I tried to put him Emma in as well and didn't, it didn't ruin the, the results or anything, but just to, to keep it more clear, we put, we two come out of the analysis.

1 (1h 51m 54s):
Yeah. So he was a mutant, a knockout. Yeah. And I'm sure they're out there. Very interesting. So if you shiver early, then perhaps you have less brown fat to begin with. Although it's hard to conclude from one person. That's sort of the, the, the implication there. Oh,

2 (1h 52m 9s):
You haven't adapted to the code. Right. So you should build that up. Yeah. Right.

1 (1h 52m 13s):
So in addition to looking at regulation of blood sugar round, fat metabolism and so on, were there any markers that you examined in the deliberate cold exposure group as compared to controls that revealed to you that deliberate cold exposure could have additional benefits, say for immune system function or for any function for that matter?

2 (1h 52m 38s):
Yeah, so for, we looked at in inflammation, of course we measure the outcome of blood pressure and so on. But we also measured the i l six in the study just to see also an inflammatory and inflammatory marker. So I L six went up and it also follows with the i L 10. So that is like also very known in the literature. So we measured that and I think it's very important to, to think about the cold exposure and the heat exposure as something that then lowers the inflammation in the body. And with, if we can do that, we will have an open door for preventing lifestyle diseases, right? So for type two diabetes, but actually also for some mental diseases as well.

2 (1h 53m 21s):
So as known as depression and anxiety and also Alzheimer's disease, which are all associated in research. Also neuro research showing that that inflammation increases the risk of depression, anxiety, and an Alzheimer's disease, neurological diseases. So if we can decrease inflammation in the body, we will decrease our modern lifestyle diseases, but also these increasing mental diseases that we see in these modern lifestyle times. So I think that it's, I think it's very interesting that we can go out in nature and we can use these natural stressors. And I, it, I don't want to have it sound very romantic or anything, it's just, it's just exposure to temperature actually just to colder to heat that is gonna trick our body into a natural state again and, and reset it where the, the, the homeostasis the balance has is lost a bit.

2 (1h 54m 17s):
So the body is gonna repair itself in that way. And I think it's beautiful that we can do that just by changing the temperature of our body. And although people are very scared of doing this, because in our times we have been away from cold away from heat temperature for some, for decades now, since we isolated our houses better and we are more sedentary, we also sit more indoor. We don't move as much. So this very modern sedentary lifestyle has made us more temperature comfortable, just neutral. So no, no wonder, I mean that obesity is increasing.

2 (1h 54m 58s):
We don't expose ourself to the natural status that we did earlier on in, in our involvement, but also up until maybe the seventies, the sixties where we started having more like comfortable lifestyles, right. And obesity increases in the, in the eighties. We can see that from statistics. So I think that if we can take in cold and heat, and you mentioned other things also before, but of course exercise is very important here and also a bit of fasting actually, because it all increases the hetic stress in the body. So it's doesn't have to be other than natural stresses to the body, which then could keep us in that natural balance again.

2 (1h 55m 40s):
Could

1 (1h 55m 40s):
We talk about what I refer to as the sober principle, which is to end on cold? And the reason I called it the sober principle is because in reviewing, oh by the way, I wasn't a official reviewer of your paper, but I mean in reading and reviewing your paper for its after published contents, I noticed that you had people end on cold. And this has been a longstanding debate in the, the deliberate cold exposure community. Should you warm up with a, with a warm shower afterwards or get back in the sauna, what should you end on cold or end on heat? And the sober principle says end on cold as I understand it, in order to force your body to heat itself back up and thereby increase metabolism further still.

1 (1h 56m 24s):
Is that right?

2 (1h 56m 25s):
Yes. So when you, when you end on the cold, you, you force your body to heat up by yourself and that will require that you activate, you keep your brown fat activated and also your muscles, which is a good thing. It's a good collaboration to keep your thermogenesis up. And that's like an, an exercise even when you go home. So in that way you don't have to think about your cold exposure dipping in, in your plunge or open sea or what it is as just a, an exercise that you do for one to two minutes and then there's over, if you end on the cold, you haven't exercised for your body going on for hours afterwards. And that's not only on your metabolism, but it's also gonna keep your neurotransmitters activated as well and increase that because your body is still cold.

2 (1h 57m 13s):
So you need that act, those neurotransmitters to activate the brown fat as well. So that's gonna make your brown fat cells more efficient and also your muscle cells more efficient. So increasing mitochondria in the cells, which will then generate heat very fast. So if you have done this for a few times, so maybe 3, 4, 5 times being new to this, but have tried it a few times, you will notice a switch where you'd like feel that you get easily warmer and you can keep yourself warmer. And that is also what was shown in, in my study is that the, the winter swimmers were physically warmer on the skin compared to the control group. So they, they, when

1 (1h 57m 52s):
They are out of the cold,

2 (1h 57m 54s):
When they're out of the cold, just relaxing. And we tested this in, in on the days where they were sleeping in the lab, so we could see that they had a more activation of the brown fat, higher temperature. So probably because they also lose heat, they have a higher heat loss to the body compared to the control group because they have a more vascular skin because of the contrast of cold and heat. So they lose heat faster from the body during that day. But is that a bad thing? No, probably not, because that's gonna keep your brown fat and your muscles a little bit activated. So we you will have to, it has to work to keep you warm.

1 (1h 58m 36s):
I, and I would hypothesize that it also might lead to some of the subjectively reported improvements in sleep because in order to fall asleep you need your core body temperature to drop by about one to three degrees. Yes. So it's not just sufficient to be sleeping in a cold room and under the blanket you also need your body temperature to drop. Yes. And so what you're saying, if I understand correctly is that by forcing, by ending on cold and forcing oneself to heat up naturally that increases the brown fat stores, which I sort of see as a, kinda like the oil in the candle Yeah. Of the furnace that is thermogenesis and that in turn leads to increased heat loss, which people might think, oh, I don't wanna lose heat from the body.

1 (1h 59m 21s):
But there are times when you want to lose heat from the body basically. It sounds like what we want is to be a very efficient heating and cooling system. Yes. That it's not about being cold or being hot, it's really about keeping the system tuned. Well, keeping the oil in the candle is brown fat functioning. Yeah. What could I ask one question about fed or fasted? Is there any rather, are there any known benefits of doing deliberate cold exposure and or sauna fasted versus after a a meal say within the last hour or something of that sort? I do my deliberate cold exposure first thing in the morning. So in general I'm faster cuz I don't eat until a little bit later in the day.

1 (2h 0m 3s):
Yeah. But what's known about that and was that looked at in your study? I know you measured glucose, but that was as a separate test Yeah. Away from the cold,

2 (2h 0m 13s):
Away from the cold. Yeah. But I also tested glucose on the days on the code. So we measured that as well on, on the cooling days. Specifically on fasting and fat. I don't know, I don't think that I've seen studies specifically on this. Okay.

1 (2h 0m 30s):
More science needed. A number of people ask about the use of deliberate cold exposure to offset some of the symptoms of various diseases. Now here we're not talking about curing disease, we're talking about offsetting symptoms. One question I've seen quite often is whether or not people with ray nodes syndrome, this is a syndrome. My high school girlfriend had the syndrome and I'll never forget, we went, we at a, a school dance together and this was when we first started dating and she had ray nods, which leads to very poor blood flow to the, the, the extremities and, and she was very cold, so she left to go to the bathroom and warm up her hands in the warm water.

1 (2h 1m 11s):
And I was left standing there at the dance and people came up to me and asked, you know, why I was there and who I was there with. And I kept telling them who I was with and they didn't believe me cuz they couldn't believe that she would be with me. Made total sense if you knew me at the time I was, i I was way outta my league with her at the time. I like to think eventually I caught up. But in any case, she was in the bathroom for about an hour. So at one point I did consider the possibility that she had just left, but indeed she hadn't, she warmed her hands back up. But people with ray nodes suffer from this, from this thing of very, very cold extremities. Their fingertips will even turn blue, you know, as if they were starting to get frost bitten.

1 (2h 1m 51s):
It's quite dramatic. And that question gets asked whether or not there's any use of cold to try and increase the elasticity, the plasticity of the, of the small capillaries and vessels by everything you've described up until now, it seems like that would be a logical thing to do. And in addition to that, whether or not people with autoimmune conditions, people with any other type types of conditions are known to benefit from deliberate cold exposure. I'm not aware of any studies, but I get asked about this a lot and there were a lot of questions about this for you in the, in the Twitter feed. Yeah,

2 (2h 2m 25s):
Yeah. Thank you for those questions. Yeah. And I get them as well on social media. And I have to say that I, I haven't seen any studies directed on this outcome on measuring rhino syndrome. I do know that it's, it's, it's not that rare actually a problem. And I know that many women or more men, women than men suffer from this. But logically it would help them if they expose their hands to cold and also heat to make the vest it more vascular. But, and I have heard from people saying that it had helped them but also heard from some others saying it didn't help them.

2 (2h 3m 5s):
So studies are needed on this specific topic. I think I heard my hands when I go into the koan, I don't have this syndrome at all, but I keep my hands above the water. You do? Yeah. And I, I do that often. I take a little bit of a swim and then of course I have to have my hands in the water, but it helps me when I then get back to the, the daddy and then take my hands up because then I can stand there for a little bit and get my one to two minutes exposure and then I can go up because then otherwise that will stop me from being in the water enough time that I, as long as I, I would like to, so people suffer from having this pain in the fingers and it very, it can be very intense.

2 (2h 3m 50s):
So just take the hands up a bit from the water and, and that's gonna help you also boots, rine boots, it's gonna help on the feet. Some people have the hurt feel the pain in the feet and or in the ankles and that's gonna help them also a little bit.

1 (2h 4m 4s):
Okay. So there is no problem with keeping hands out or feet in near prim booties if people feel the need to do that. If that's what the, if pain of the hands or feet is a barrier for people doing deliberate cold exposure, then it seems it would be okay to do, to keep hands out or to keep your feet in

2 (2h 4m 24s):
Booties. Yes, because then you, you do get the exposure, but of course hands and feet are very potent places in your body to get a fast activation of your nervous system. Of course. But if you can just, you can also just dip them and then take them off. It's gonna still gonna activate that. But you have your full body is covered in, in the co-receptors, you'll have a full activation anyways. So

1 (2h 4m 50s):
You, you are providing very reassuring information to people. Cuz I know a number of people that do not like to book their hands in. I find that the more of my body I get in, the more comfortable I am psycho. I don't know if it's psychologically and or physiologically. I find that if where there's an interface between the water and the cold, it's most uncomfortable. So I prefer to just get everything under, I keep my head out. Although I, these days I've been dunking all the way in and then coming out and then dunking once more with my head under before I get out after the, the plunge. That raises a different question. Now we're getting into kind of the practicalities of deliberate cold exposure, which I think are, are important. Sometimes I'll experience, and I hear from a lot of people that they'll get a kind of back of the head headache at the interface of the, of the water, you know, when they're in doing cold immersion to the neck.

1 (2h 5m 40s):
Okay, I assume this has to do with blood flow that there's vasoconstriction right up until the neck and in the region surrounding it, but that maybe there's still blood flow to the head. But do we know what the origin of these headaches is? And again, this doesn't happen for everybody, but some people do experience them.

2 (2h 5m 56s):
Okay. Yeah, I haven't really heard about that one specifically. So, but I would say that there are different reasons for maybe keeping your head out of the water, but it seems like maybe for some that could be a reason for like just getting like a quick head dunk going

1 (2h 6m 12s):
All the way in once. Yeah, yeah. That's what I've started doing to eliminate, I, I wasn't getting headaches, but I could, I noticed that interface. Okay. And I, and I wasn't in the rest of the experience it so mu experience of it, so much. So I started dunking all the way in. I noticed in some of the photos that you've put out and in your book, that you'll sometimes wear a cap Yes. While you go in. Yeah. Okay.

2 (2h 6m 32s):
And well, it comes from different reasons. So let's talk about some of the physiological reasons. So when you submerge in cold water up to the neck, studies have shown, and this is from Denmark, studies from bi hospital, that when you submerge into cold water up to the neck at zero degrees, so zero degrees celsius, very cold, you have a decreased blood flow to the brain by around 30 to 40% and makes sense because you activate the sympathetic nervous system and, and therefore you will have a less blood flow to the brain. It makes you maybe a little bit der and proof

1 (2h 7m 9s):
Again that you're, you need a heart more than a brain because when the sympathetic nervous system gets activated, blood flow is maintained to the heart to keep you alive, but obviously taken away from the brain to keep you from thinking. That's why it's hard to think when you're stressed.

2 (2h 7m 22s):
Yeah. Well the muscles and, and your vital organs need to, you have to be able to run away from that tiger. Right.

1 (2h 7m 28s):
The rationale makes total sense. And who am I to disagree with Mother nature. Right?

2 (2h 7m 34s):
Well, but yeah, so one of the reasons being that you should keep your head out of the water is that you could increase that bl decrease in block flow to the brain further if you dumped the head. So there's just a very nice paper from, from a a, a research group in Canada where they have collectively looked at different papers where they compared heat loss in a group in the papers where they dunked the head and compared to heat loss submerging up to the neck to see how much extra heat do we lose from our core when we dunk the head. So, and I think it's very interesting that if you submerge up to the neck, you have a heat loss of 11% from the body core and when you then also dunk the head, you will increase that heat loss rate by 36%.

2 (2h 8m 27s):
Wow. So that means, I'm not saying that I'm not, I'm not here to say what is right and what is wrong. I just think that people should know the information so they can for themself evaluate what is best for them. But if you increase your heat loss rate by 36% from your core, that's gonna increase your after drop, which we touched upon a little bit earlier, even further. So that's meaning that you are closer to hypothermia than you are if you just submerge up to the neck. So you should really think about whether this is like something that you want to do or if it's just better for you not to get that cold in your core. The beanie is also because I have a little bit of sensitive ears.

2 (2h 9m 10s):
So meaning that if there's wind and because we swim in the open sea in Denmark, we have a lot of wind. Our wind, our conditions are just ve very rainy, very windy. And when the temperature is also freezing, you could get this, what is that called? So very cold and lightheaded just from wind. So if you also stop merging into Coldwater and you then get up, you could, you will get a brain freeze immediately. Yeah. So it is enough to just go up to the neck where you need to just not get dizzy. Also, because the, the, the heat loss is increased of course, but it also, the blood flow to the brain has decreased.

2 (2h 9m 50s):
So the beanie will keep you a little bit warmer so you can stay for one to two minutes. So it's just a way of like getting around some of the conditions also so people can choose that if they, they feel that. But it's ki quite normal to do in, in Scandinavia, gu.

1 (2h 10m 5s):
Love it. And so for those of you afraid of doing a two minute cold shower, what Dr. Silver just described, let's you see how she and others are capable of doing things far harder than that. When the way you describe it with the cold wind in Scandinavia and is, is quite striking along the lines of covering the head. There's this seemingly paradoxical thing of people going into hot saunas and wearing wool caps. You know, if you go to a banya or you go to a sauna and there are people who are well from Eastern Europe or typically, or Finland or Russia or Ukraine or elsewhere, what you'll see is that many of them are wearing wool caps in the sauna.

1 (2h 10m 50s):
Yeah. Which many people think is to make it hotter. That's actually not the case. It actually in insulates you from the heat environment, the rg the sense of urgency to get out of the hot sauna is a brain driven mechanism. And so the reason that people wear wool hats in the sauna is it actually lets you stay in the sauna longer because it takes a lot of heat to the skin before you feel that you, you have have to get out. Whereas, so when you insulate the brain, you don't get that signal. It's pretty interesting. I've tried this before just by putting a towel over my head in the sauna, and you can stay in there, you know, much more easily and for for much longer. You know, as we talk about these different stimuli for the hormetic response, the adaptation distress, you know, it occurs to me that the, the big ones in our evolutionary history have been light.

1 (2h 11m 41s):
Right? I mean, you were talking about seasonal changes. We know they're, especially as you go up to Nordic countries, there are seasonal changes in the amount of light by time of year. Dramatic ones, in fact dramatic ones less, less so at the equator of course. Yeah. Light, temperature, food movement, it and it, it's sort of interesting and, and at the same time, perhaps it should have been obvious to us that there are stimuli that our bodies have evolved to adapt to in very powerful ways. And so the idea that temperature, heat, and cold could evoke these tremendous physiological changes that are beneficial for us probably shouldn't surprise us at all.

1 (2h 12m 23s):
I mean, I mean this is why we, I mean the, these are not eso esoteric mechanisms. They're actually the, the foundational mechanisms by which our, our body and the bodies of other animals adapt. So I do have a question about the different ways that people could approach deliberate cold exposure. So for instance, children, I've been to Banyas where they're kids, you know, six or seven years old with their parents at the Banya and so they're in hot sauna. I'm not suggesting people do this if they're, if they're not, you know, adapted to it and, you know, talk to your parents' kids and talk to your kids' parents, talk to your doctors. But is remarkable, I mean children doing sauna from a young age or deliberate cold exposure, are there any data on this?

1 (2h 13m 9s):
And is it safe assuming that, you know, obviously that they can swim and or they're doing this in a, in a tub or shower. And then I'd also like to ask you about are there any additional male female differences? I know your study focused ma on men, but other studies have focused on both and you of course are a woman and can attest to your own experience with this. So children, men, women, differences there in terms of protocols. Is there anything that people should build into the structure of, of their deliberate cold exposure that's unique to that?

2 (2h 13m 42s):
So yeah, so this was an on cold exposure. So yeah, I think that starting with the, the question about children, I think that it's important to, to think about as children are smaller than adults, so we cannot really completely transfer all the information and the benefits and also protocols for how long and, and, and stuff like that. Two children, we cannot do that because they are just smaller in math. And one study that actually approves this is a study where they have compared heat loss in children, boys who were 12 years old compared to adults, men, and looked at heat loss of the core temperature and exposed them to a one or one or two minutes cold exposure.

2 (2h 14m 35s):
So immersion up to the neck. And what they saw was that the, the, the boys in this study could actually defend the core temperature in the same way as the adults could, but they had to use their muscles way faster. So it means that they couldn't stay for as long and they used more energy to defend their core temperature compared to the, to the adults. But for one minute it seems that they could actually com but they will be colder when they then come out because they are smaller in the mass to that ratio. Right. So it means that if the surface is so large on children and their mass and muscles being smaller to that ratio, it means that they can be in the water less time before they get hypothermic.

2 (2h 15m 26s):
So just think about that. They're just smaller, they can't defend the temperature for a very long time. But in this study they saw that for up to, I think it, it was a minute or so. They can One minute. One minute. Yeah.

1 (2h 15m 38s):
I'm glad you mentioned hypothermia and smaller bodied people. Children, I used to do some Pacific Ocean swims in the morning without wetsuits and I adapted to it pretty quickly and these are fairly long swims and we brought an excellent swimmer with us that was interning with me for a while, is 16 years old at the time, and very lean. And he wasn't small for his age, but he was smaller than us Yeah. Than the, it was all guys on the swim that day. Sometimes women join us and he got hypothermic and he's an excellent swimmer and he didn't report feeling overly cold, but fortunately we got him to shore and heated him up again.

1 (2h 16m 21s):
Okay. So he lived, I don't think his mother's gonna ever let him go swimming with us again. He's thriving in the world. He's a university student now. And he recalls that swim. I mean, this is why you always want to ocean swim with a buddy with people. Yes. Yeah. He, he became hypothermic, his teeth turned yellow. He was slurring his words, he wasn't making sense, you know, we got him on the shore and he was kind of, you know, drooling and a little bit semi euphoric and then kind of, you know, it was hypothermia is no joke. So I think it's no joke. Yeah. So I I I'm really glad that this is coming up because the cold is a powerful stimulus and, and I, and kids are at a and smaller bodied people are at a, a greater risk of hypothermia.

1 (2h 17m 1s):
So a good reason to approach it with caution. Maybe start with cold showers get then cold immersion and still water, natural water and open bodies water of course are always going to be more dangerous for other reasons. Currents and things of that sort. Yeah, yeah, exactly. Okay. And

2 (2h 17m 16s):
Drowning.

1 (2h 17m 16s):
Yeah. So an important note there. What about any additional male female differences or similarities that we should be aware of? And this comes up all the time on social media anytime I post anything about a study. Yeah, it's, it's what about women? Because oftentimes there are differences.

2 (2h 17m 32s):
Yeah, yeah. And, and, and there are, we j we also just talked about the difference in, in, in in temperature in men and women. So it means that if we did, we, we replicated my study in women, it could be that they would have enough, you can say cold exposure with just nine minutes per week. It could be because they apparently are also just colder and, and they have increased metabolism that brown fat is just, they have more brown fat. It could be, but this is just something that I, I, I frankly don't know, but women also do code exposure winter swimming with the 11 minutes protocol.

2 (2h 18m 12s):
I do it myself and feel good about it. So I would say that women also, regarding activation of the brown fatt, it should be the same in theory. But I don't know if women actually do need to have another protocol when it comes to this rapid cold exposure. I think that it's another question if we are talking about ice swimming when it comes to how far can you be in the cold water without getting hypothermic, then there will be differences in men and, and, and female. But, but if you do this cold exposure for a very brief amount of time, which is what I try to, to talk to about, talk about what we call also micros stressing the body to, to increase the hermetic stress, the healthy stress, then this is such a short amount of ex exposure that it, it's fairly the same.

2 (2h 19m 4s):
I think, I think women can look at this as a fairly good protocol for the, for, for them as well.

1 (2h 19m 11s):
I always say that if you really dread the cold and, and don't like the cold, then you are a perfect candidate for using deliberate cold exposure because the sympathetic aka the stress response will be greater. And thereby the adaptation to that shorter one or two minutes is, is going to be much greater. Right. For people that are perfectly comfortable in the cold, it's harder to get a, an adaptation response the same way that if somebody's very strong and they can lift a very heavy weight, that that very heavy weight is unlikely to evoke the same kind of same degree of Yeah. Of adaptive responses if somebody is not quite as strong. Yes. So a another reason to keep these exposures relatively short.

1 (2h 19m 52s):
Yeah. And more frequent than to do longer duration exposures frequently. However, let's say somebody only had two days a week to do deliberate cold exposure, maybe they don't have access to asana, maybe they do, would you suggest that they get in for one or two minutes, then get out, then get back in for another couple of minutes, then get out and call that for, you know, four or five minutes to try and get to that 11 minutes total per week as opposed to getting in for a full five minutes. Oh yeah. And then getting out and coming back a second time that week. I know this is getting down into the weeds, but these are the sorts of things that I think people really want to know because n a lot of people either don't live close to a body of water or don't have a cold plunge that they can do this with.

1 (2h 20m 39s):
Although cold shower apparently works too. So most people live close to a shower.

2 (2h 20m 44s):
Yeah. So definitely I think the, the changes in temperature is what is strengthening your, your cells in the body. So if you can do the short amount of exposure and then get out and get back in, that is gonna, you can say strengthen yourselves because you are challenging them to, to adapt to changing temp temperatures. So during one session you can change this, right? You, you can do it. If you are able to go to cold water, but also a sauna, then you just do it that automatically you will have a change in temperature. But you could also do it when variating the temperature in your co plunge if you have, if you have a plunge or if you have the open sea or you have seasoning seasons even you have, we have that in Denmark.

2 (2h 21m 29s):
So we have four seasons and the temperature is gonna vary with that. So we have nature who can just change this for us and we don't have to think about it. But if you have a cold plunge, well then I would say that changing the temperature is what is gonna create this hetic stress and also keep your cells on its toes. You can say because you are try, the body will still be stressed to try to adapt to the n new temperature as it's seen as something actually toxic to the body. Right. It's a small, small piece of toxicity that you are exposing yourself to. You don't have to swallow it, but it's enough that you touched it actually.

1 (2h 22m 8s):
Yeah. Great, great way to frame it. That brings me back to this idea of circadian time in your study you didn't control for specific time of day, and now I'm realizing that may be a great asset to the whole thing. So we know for instance, that our bodies go through pretty dramatic shifts in temperature from the time we wake up, our body starts heating up as we wake up and continues to heat until the afternoon and then starts to drop in the later afternoon. And then assuming all things are working correctly, that body temperature drops and we sleep. So I could imagine that doing deliberate cold exposure at different times just by way of convenience or by way of intention could be very beneficial because my body temperature is going to be quite a bit warmer at one time of day versus another.

1 (2h 22m 54s):
And in that way, keeping the system tuned. And that's really what I keep hearing coming through in as you explain these data and all these beautiful studies, yours and others, is that it's not really about getting cold, it's about going from warm to cold and from cold to warm. It's not it, and I love this idea because I, I probably said this a hundred times on my podcast in a million times in my life and I'll continue to, which is that biology is not an event, it's a process like these, these metabolic and thermal regulatory processes are indeed like the turning of a knob. It's a verb. Yeah. It's as opposed to a noun. And I, and so I, I think if people can internalize that idea that they're going to have a lot more flexibility, a lot more fun and, and get a lot more benefit as opposed to thinking, okay, I need to get into X degrees of water for X amount of time on X number of days.

1 (2h 23m 47s):
Yeah. You know, in a very rigid

2 (2h 23m 49s):
Way. Get all the time. Yeah. How much and how cold and, and I mean it's the, it's just like, well, because we also don't have studies sewing Exactly. If you just keep five degrees in your water and you do that for a month, then what happens? We, maybe the future we will know much more about this. And I'm, I'm sure it's gonna come and I really hope so. But I just think by logically changing that temperature up and down, up and down, and you also do that in your water. It doesn't really, it's not that important. What temperature you, you will have your water then, then just keep changing it, going up and down. It could be all up to 12 degrees Celsius. You are gonna activate your brown fat anyways. I mean, 12, 19 degrees cold air is enough to activate your brown fats.

2 (2h 24m 32s):
So maybe we don't have to go as cold as I think many people think and putting ice even all the time. It, you don't have to, it's not, I don't think it's necessary to, to expose yourself to that cold temperature all the time, but vary it a bit.

1 (2h 24m 50s):
So keep the system off balance. Yes. And is the way to keep it tuned. Yeah. You mentioned a study that is more recent or ongoing that's not published. Or if you're willing, could you share maybe some of the data from that findings, from that study with, of course the, the cue to everybody that these are not yet published data so that the conclusions could change, the data could change for that matter?

2 (2h 25m 14s):
Yeah, so we, we haven't analyzed all the data yet, and I, I know from the study that we did publish that we, we would need to look more of the data. So I don't really have any results yet that I can share because we are still in very preliminary analysis of this. So I, I wouldn't know yet what to exactly say about it, but what we looked at was both men and women method. So that's, that's coming.

1 (2h 25m 39s):
Oh, that's fantastic. I, I'm, that answer is going to please a great number of people and yeah. And, and intrigue everybody. So well listen, I, I want to really thank you for coming here today to talk about your work and the incredible direction that it points to because I think that, you know, no one study is definitive, but your study really again stands as a landmark in the landscape of exploring deliberate cold exposure and heat, how it can impact and potentially impact our health. Because frankly, there just haven't been that many high resolution detailed modern studies of this.

1 (2h 26m 23s):
There have been studies of sauna, there have been some studies of cold, there are a lot of groups in physiology that work on hypothermia and very cold exposure, but most of the temperatures used in those studies just aren't practical. So first of all, I just want to thank you for doing the work that you've done and for the work that you continue to do. I'm waiting with baited breath as they say to to hear the results of this study that's ongoing on both men and women. So we'll have to have you back to, to inform us about that soon. And I wanna thank you for the incredible public education efforts that you've been doing on social media and in with respect to your book. And we of course, will put links to all of those things in the show note caption so people can learn from you and can continue to learn from you.

1 (2h 27m 8s):
We, we certainly need more scientists who are both experienced with doing hardcore research as it's called, and who also do the practices. I think that's a, a wonderful additional asset. You know, you're not just behind a lab coat or bundled up in a, in a down, in a down feathered jacket as everyone else is getting in the cold. You do these things and that you are so open and generous in the way that you share knowledge, which includes coming here today to, to share knowledge with me and our audience. So thank you ever so much.

2 (2h 27m 41s):
You are very welcome. I am so pleased to be here and thank you so much for inviting me and I could explain my study and I can share some of my insights from, from doing that. So I'm very grateful for being here.

1 (2h 27m 52s):
Delighted and we'll have to have you back again. Thank you for joining me for today's discussion all about deliberate cold and deliberate heat exposure science and protocols with Dr. Susanna Solberg. If you'd like to learn more about Dr. Solberg's research or you would like to learn about the research of her institute, the Solberg Institute, please see the links in the show note caption. Also in the show note caption, you can find a link to Dr. Solberg's excellent book, winter Swimming. If you're learning from and or enjoying this podcast, please subscribe to our YouTube channel. That's a terrific zero cost way to support us. In addition, please subscribe to the podcast on Spotify and Apple. And in addition on both Spotify and Apple, you can leave us up to a five star review. If you have questions for me or topics you'd like me to cover on the Huberman Lab podcast or guests that you'd like me to consider inviting on the huberman Lab podcast, please put that in the comments on YouTube.

1 (2h 28m 41s):
I do read all the comments. In addition, please check out the sponsors mentioned the beginning and throughout today's episode. That's the best way to support this podcast.

Momentous (2h 28m 49s):
Not so much on today's episode, but on various previous episodes of the Huberman Lab podcast, we discuss supplements. While supplements aren't necessary for everybody, many people derive tremendous benefit from them for things like enhancing sleep focus and hormone support. The Huberman Lab podcast is proud to have partnered with momentous supplements. If you'd like to hear more about the supplements discussed on the huberman Lab podcast, please go to live momentous spelled O U s.com/huberman. Again, that's live momentus.com/huberman.

1 (2h 29m 15s):
If you're not already following the huberman Lab podcast on social media, we are huberman Lab on Instagram, Twitter, Facebook, and LinkedIn. And on all those places, I focus on material that somewhat overlaps with content from the huberman Lab podcast, but often is distinct from the content covered on the huberman Lab podcast. So again, it's Huberman Lab on all social media channels. For those of you that haven't already subscribe to our so-called Neural network newsletter, this is a completely zero cost monthly newsletter that has summaries of podcast episodes and so-called toolkits. Toolkits are lists of about a page to two pages long that give the critical tools, for instance, for optimizing sleep or for neuroplasticity or deliberate cold exposure or deliberate heat exposure, optimizing dopamine.

1 (2h 29m 57s):
Again, all available to you at zero cost. You simply go to huberman lab.com, go to the menu tab in the corner, scroll down a newsletter, you provide us your email. We do not share your email with anybody. And in addition to that, there are samples of toolkits on the huberman lab.com website, again, under newsletter, and you don't even have to sign up to access those, but I think most people do end up signing up for the newsletter because it's rich with useful information and again, completely zero cost. Thank you once again for joining me for today's discussion with Dr. Susanna Solberg. And last but certainly not least, thank you for your interest in science.